The valedictory function of Velaan Thiruvizha-2018 was held at Sri Shakthi Institute of Engineering and Technology on Sunday. A video presentation on the events of the festival was screened at the event, said a release from the institution. In his presidential address, chairman of the institute S Thangavelu said about 3,000 people visited the fest. He requested the students to visit rural areas and analyse problems faced by farmers and to design equipment to address their problems. In his speech, the superintendent of Tamil Nadu Agricultural Engineering Department, Madurai, Chandrasekar, highlighted the advancements in food producing machinery and also about the funds provided to farmers. He requested people to use available funds for improving production. The founder of Farm Harvest, Salem, Rajeshkumar, spoke about the predicament of farmers in not being able to fix prices for their produce. 

 Teachers from TN, Kerala honoured 
 
 P K Das Memorial Best Teacher and Life Time Achievement Awards were presented at an event at Nehru Group of Institutions on Sunday. The awards were presented to school teachers from Tamil Nadu and Kerala in memory of P K Das, founder chairman of Nehru Group of Institutions, a release from the institution said. 
 
 Life Time Achievement Awards were presented to four teachers from Tamil Nadu and Kerala. As many as 21 physics teachers, 22 mathematics teachers, 11 computer science teachers and 21 chemistry teachers were presented with the best teacher award, the release said. Director (HR) of Roots Industries India Ltd Kavidasan, who was the chief guest, presented the awards in the presence of CEO and secretary of Nehru Group of Institutions P Krishnakumar, the release added. 
 
 ‘Student Guide Book’ released: The 20th anniversary celebration of Mahalingam College of Engineering and Technology was held on Thursday. M Manickam, chairman,   group of educational institutions, in his presidential address, said Tamil Nadu still stands tall amidst setbacks and challenges. He said the youngsters in the state were in a better position when compared to other states. He insisted on talking and working on one’s strengths and not on limitations and to use all the opportunities available for them. Deputy speaker of the assembly   released a ‘Student Guide Book’ and delivered a special address. Minister for animal husbandry Udumalai K Radhakrishnan inaugurated a science expo. Education minister K A Sengottaiyan inaugurated an open house exhibition and delivered the inaugural address. He said the government and ministry of education would modify the existing educational system in order to help students to excel in their lives. He said in few years the state syllabus will better than the CBSE syllabus.
 
 Chemical engineering student chapter gets award: The Indian Institute of Chemical Engineers (IIChE) recently honoured its student chapter in   for its academic and social activities. The chapter received an award citation and a cheque for Rs 10,000 at the 70{+t}{+h} Annual Chemical Engineers Congress, CHEMCON, held at Haldia, West Bengal. President of IIChE professor P De and vice chancellor of Institute of Chemical Technology, Mumbai, professor G D Yadav presented the award to K Saravanan, professor and head, department of chemical engineering, Kongu Engineering College and S Mothil, coordinator of IIChE student chapter of the college. The award is given annually by the Indian Institute of Chemical Engineers (IIChE) and  . It recognises its chemical engineering student chapters that excel in academic and social activities.
 
 Achiever of the week:
 
 A rising star in horse riding competitions
 
 Harini Rajendran, 14, a Class X student of   in the city, has been placed eighth at the national horse riding competitions held in Bhopal, Madhya Pradesh, from December 21 to 30, 2017. She was one of the 90 people from across the country to participate in the accumulator race under junior category. She scored a total of 27 points in 41 seconds.
 
 An animal lover since her younger days, Harini says she had been the first person in her family to be involved in anything to do with animals. “I learnt about horse riding from posters. I never expected to continue in horse riding for so long,” she adds. Harini’s father Rajendran says she want to be with horses for a day or two, but has ended up learning and performing the sport for three years now.
 
 Being in Class X, doesn’t she feel stressed to concentrate on both studies and the sport? “Studies are of course stressful. I do horse riding because it relieves me of my stress,” Harini says.
 
 Every morning she practises horse riding for two hours and in evenings she concentrates on studies, says Harini’s father. She also has other interests like pets and photography, he adds.
 
 
