BENGALURU: In the second such statewide operation in less than 30 days, teams from the Anti-Corruption Bureau ( ) combed the offices and homes of 12 Karnataka government officials, including four in Bengaluru, beginning early Thursday. The raids continued till late night and sleuths are known to have seized crucial items suspected to have been disproportionately amassed by the suspected officials.

 With the ACB still probing the outcome of the raids on 11 officials on December 13, 2017, which unearthed movable and immovable assets worth over Rs 35 crore, Thursday’s raids on officials from BBMP, BDA, KPTCL and PWD began as early as 7am. According to ACB sources, they were carried out after detailed intelligence was gathered and information received about suspicious illegal activities involving the officers, who are believed to have misused their official powers to amass wealth.
  
  
 4 babus under scanner in Bengaluru
 
 In Bengaluru, ACB sleuths targeted four officers — RV Kantharaju, deputy director, urban planning, BDA; NRM Nagarajan, superintendent engineer, KPTCL, Kengeri; BS Prahalad, superintendent engineer, technical vigilance committee under the BBMP commissioner and Narashimalu, tax auditor, CV Raman Nagar sub-division, BBMP. Sleuths even searched the residences of close relatives and acquaintances of the four men for vital clues.
 
 Raids were conducted simultaneously in other parts of the state, including Ballari, Shivamogga, Davanagere, Hassan, Gadag, Vijayapura, Raichur and Bengaluru Rural.
 
 Other officers who were raided include BT Kumaraswamy, assistant commissioner, Ballari sub-division; BS Balan, assistant executive engineer, Karnataka irrigation department, Bhadravathi; JC Jagadeeshappa, assistant executive engineer, KPTCL, Honnali, Davanagere; Venkatesh, assistant engineer, PWD, Sakleshpur, Hassan; Ashok Gowdappa Patil, executive officer, Nargund taluk panchayat, Gadag; Somappa. T Lamani, branch superintendent, zilla panchayat engineering division, Vijayapura and Amaresh Benchamaradi, sanitary inspector in-charge, Raichur municipality.
 
 The raided officers include a woman, Rekha, panchayat development officer of Vajarahalli village in Nelamangala. She was subjected to flash raids at her office and home, sources added.
 
 The outcome of the searches, in terms of seizure of gold, cash or property disproportionately amassed by these officials, is likely to be made public in the coming days.
 
 
