NOIDA: An expelled Delhi police constable is among four persons arrested for stealing vehicles in NCR and western   and selling them in Meerut or Nepal with fake documents.

 Noida police said the gang would open the locks of the vehicles with duplicate keys, replace the chassis and engines with those sourced from cars that had met with accidents, prepare fake papers and sell them off. While bikes were sold for Rs 25,000 each, the cars would fetch them anything around Rs 50,000. 
 
 One of the four, Praveen Chaudhary (35), had been expelled from Delhi Police 15 years ago after officers found he had allegedly landed the job using fake documents. His step-brother Ajay alias Sonu (28) headed the gang, the police said.
 
 Praveen, Ajay and two others — Gaurav and Bunty — were arrested during a routine check near Sector 60 police outpost on Sunday evening. The police said two gang members, identified as Sumit and Ashu, were on the run.
 
 According to DIG Love Kumar, the gang had stolen around 200 vehicles from Delhi-NCR and western UP over the past few years. Praveen and Ajay, the police said, had been involved in stealing vehicles from 2011 and had been jailed last year. They secured bail last November and resumed stealing of vehicles.
 
  
  
 
 Explaining the modus operandi, police sources said Sumit, Gaurav and Bunty would open the locks of bikes, some costing over a lakh, with duplicate keys and park them in isolated places. 
 
 “They would then hand over the bikes to Praveen and Ajay. The duo would prepare fake documents and source blank registration forms from a   resident. Ajay would fake signatures of the transport officer and hand over the vehicles to Praveen, who was tasked with the responsibility of transporting them to Nepal. Praveen would sell the vehicles to one Raj Kumar, a native of Nepal,” the DIG said.
 
 The trio were reportedly paid Rs 10,000 for each every theft.
 
 Police sources said that for four-wheelers, Ajay would buy the chassis and engines of damaged vehicles from Anshu, a scrap dealer in Meerut, for Rs 10,000 and replace the original equipment in the stolen vehicles. The vehicles would then be transported to Nepal via Amroha, Moradabad, Bareilly, Pilibhit and Pallia in border district  .
 
 DIG Kumar said Praveen, Ajay and Gaurav had earlier been jailed in Tihar in connection with cases of vehicle thefts and secured bail in November last year.
 
 “Soon after getting bail, they resumed vehicle thefts in Noida, Ghaziabad, Meerut, Delhi and Bulandshahr,” the DIG said.
 
 After questioning the four arrested gang members, the police raided a building in Sector 60 and recovered 15 bikes, six scooters, a laptop, two printers, 2 blank registration forms and fake stamps.
 
 
