BENGALURU: Chief minister Siddaramaiah on Friday said the   high command has cleared MLA NA Haris’ name for Shantinagar constituency. “Haris will most likely get the ticket as he is not an offender or accused in the crime. He cannot be made responsible for the offence committed by his family member,” the chief minister said. 

 Haris’ son Mohammed Nalpad Haris was booked along with 10 of his supporters for allegedly assaulting a man at a cafe in Bengaluru and later at a hospital in February this year. On Mandya MLA M H Ambareesh not accepting the party ticket, Siddaramaiah said he will discuss the issue with the actor on Saturday. 
 
 The chief minister said in 2006,   and JD(S) had entered into a pact to defeat him in Chamundeshwari, but had failed. “Then H D   was CM and B S   was his deputy and they had all the power, but I won the election. I have information that this time too they are experimenting with the same formula. But this time too they will be defeated. Both leaders have an illusion that they can defeat me,” he said. 
 
 Siddaramaiah said after winning 122 seats in 2013 election, Congress had fulfilled all its 165 promises to people. “During the statewide tour, I found there is no anti-incumbency against the government. While we explain the development programmes initiated in five years to the people without making personal attacks, BJP leaders, including PM Modi, are making baseless allegations against us. I had to make political statements against them as keeping silent will send a wrong message to people,” he said. 
 
 Asked whether he was not promoting family politics by getting his son Yathindra to contest from Varuna, Siddaramaiah said he had planned to retire from electoral politics and wanted to field his son Rakesh. “But after the sudden death of Rakesh, I told Yathindra to look after the constituency. But the party high command directed me to contest the election. If I wanted to do family politics, I would have given ticket to Rakesh in 2013,” he said. 
 
 Badami dilemma Siddaramaiah said he will speak to AICC chief   about contesting from Badami segment in   district but admitted he is under pressure from the people of Badami.
 
