BENGALURU: Election Commission officials claimed the electronic voting machines (EVMs) which will be used in   are tamper proof, but admitted that it did not mean that the machines cannot malfunction since there is a chance of human error.

 Clarifying on the recent controversy reported during a demonstration in Raichur, where the vote cast on the EVM differed with VVPAT, Chief Election Commissioner, O P Rawat, on Friday said such malfunctioning is bound to happen because of human error.
 
 “We cannot expect everyone to be perfectionists and 100% error-free,” Rawat said. “In such a large exercise, errors are bound to occur since humans are involved and they tend to make mistakes.”
 
 He admitted that during a demonstration of a particular EVM, the votes cast figures in VVPAT differed with the total votes cast. After inspection, Rawat said it was found that the error was caused as the poll official on duty entered the names of 16 candidates instead of 64. “The machine was immediately replaced to ensure voters do not face technical issues,” he said. He said security checks are being carried out at all levels to ensure free and fair elections.
 
 Referring to his interaction with political parties on Thursday, Rawat said representatives of various parties had requested the commission to effectively check "flagrant distribution of money and liquor" to bribe voters. On the allegations that some potential candidates are misusing e-commerce sites and mobile apps to hoodwink the poll panel in fudging election expenses, Rawat said such complaints were new to them and they will look into it.
 
 Probe report on poll date leak ready
 
 The Committee set up to probe the leak of Karnataka’s poll schedule before the official declaration, has completed its job and it will be revealed "in a day or two”, Rawat said.
 
 “I had given the committee seven days to probe the leak and the report should be ready,” he said. “Once I return to New Delhi, I will look into the report and initiate suitable action,” Rawat said.
 
 The  's Amit Malviya and the Congress’ Srivatsa YB had tweeted the dates, but had got the counting date wrong. They claimed their tweets were based on a television news report.
 
 
