COIMBATORE: A   convict, out after serving his prison term, was arrested on Monday after an audio clip of his telephonic conversation with a truck contractor in which he is heard saying he was planning to kill Prime Minister Narendra Modi surfaced. 

  Mohamed Rafiq, 53, from Kuniyamuthur has been booked on two counts of IPC sections 153 (A) (promoting enmity among different groups on grounds of religion) and 506 (ii) (criminal intimidation). He was produced before Judicial Magistrate VII R Paandy and remanded in judicial custody up to May 7. 
 
  Rafiq was convicted for various charges, including criminal conspiracy, in the 1998 Coimbatore serial bomb blasts case and came out of prison in 2007 after serving his term. Since then, he was booked under several cases and was under the surveillance of police. 
 
  In the 8-minute telephonic conversation with a Salem based truck contractor, identified as Prakash, Rafiq is heard saying, "We have decided to kill PM Modi. We were the ones who planted bombs during (  leader) L K Advani's visit to Coimbatore in 1998." 
 
 Though the context of the conversation is yet to be established clearly, it was about a financial dealing involving vehicles owned by Prakash and held by Rafiq. The conversation starts with Prakash asking Rafiq to return his vehicle and the latter demanding 5 lakh for it. 
 
 
 
 Rafiq says the only way to solve the issue is to pay him the money. “You shouldunderstandthatI’m not scared of anyone,’’ Rafiq says when Prakash brings up the name of Modi into the conversation. “It appearsthat youwill not be scared even of Modi,” Prakash is heard saying, to whichRafiq says, “Yes. Wehave plannedtokilleven Modi.”
 
 Rafiq continues, claiming that he had been to almost all prisonsin TamilNadu andthat he had been booked under the GoondasAct,theTerrorist and Disruptive Activities (Prevention) Act (TADA) and the National Security Act. “I have seen allthe prisons,” Rafiq says and goes on stating that even policewerewell awareof him.
 
 Police say preliminary inquiries revealed that Rafiq’s statements were only a case of bravado to intimidate Prakash and there was no murder conspiracy. “Rafiq told us during investigation that he was only threatening Prakash and there was no conspiracy to kill the PM,” said a police officer from the Special Intelligence Unit. Hence, police have booked him only for criminal intimidation of Prakash.
 
 Rafiq admitted to police that it was his voice and authenticated the audio clip. “He told us that Prakash provoked him to make such statements,” theofficer said.
 
 City commissioner of police K Periaiah, however, said further investigationswereon. Rafiq’s brother Ozeer Basha was also a convict in the bomb blast case and was an active member of the now banned Al Umma.
 
 Rafiq was an accused in RSS headquarters bomb blast case and was arrested under TADA, but acquitted in 1993. Sincehis releasefrom prison in 2007, he was involved in various shady businesses, police said. “Even thoughhehadbeen doing illegal businesses ever since his release, no complaint was registered against him,” theofficialsaid.
 
 The exact date of the conversation in the audio clip was not known. The arrest comes after the clip surfaced on social media. Periaiah said a special team has been formed the probethecase.
 
 
