NEW DELHI: The opposition, led by  , holds the aces as the   takes up the 
  this week amid questions whether the legislation would be held up for parliamentary scrutiny or become law. 

 The Left parties, which have held consultations with Congress over the last week, have announced that they will demand that “The Muslim   (Protection of Rights on Marriage) Bill, 2017, be referred to a select committee”. 
 
 The categorical stance from the key “secular” ally may force Congress’s hand. There are concerns in Congress about breaking with like-minded parties, with sources saying discussions were on. CPM general secretary Sitaram Yechury said, “We have been against the practice of arbitrary triple talaq and want it to go. But marriage is a civil contract (among Muslims) and the new law is introducing a criminal aspect to it which is wrong. BJP has brought this bill in a hurry to get political mileage and cause communal polarisation.” 
 
 Brinda Karat, who is a member of CPM’s political bureau, told TOI, “The government is using judgment of the Supreme Court to criminalise what is basically a civil dispute. While all this is done in the name of women’s empowerment, the government has not even allowed Muslim women and the organisations that represent them to make their points of view known.” CPI national secretary D Raja said, “The Left will press for the bill to be sent to the select committee.” 
 
 All eyes are on Congress, whose stance may decide the fate of the bill in the Upper House. The government lacks a majority in the House and the opposition has joined hands many times to embarrass the   dispensation. 
 
 The principal opposition party is under pressure to take a joint stand with others. More parties pushing for a “select committee” may leave few options for Congress. In the  , Trinamool Congress steered clear of the bill by not participating in the discussion. Interestingly, the opposition as well as the government may get an extra day to lock their positions, with sources indicating that the Upper House may not take up the legislation on Tuesday. 
 
 During discussions in recent days, Congress has veered towards the view that it should limit its objection to the “criminalisation” clause in the bill.
