NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court on Thursday mildly diluted its six-month-old order freezing sale of   Healthcare shares pledged with banks as collateral against huge loans after the banks feared that the value of these shares was eroding with stock markets witnessing a bearish trend.

 In two interim orders last year, on August 11 and August 31, an SC bench headed by Justice Ranjan Gogoi had asked   Bank and  , which together gave loans of Rs 2,000 crore against mortgaged shares of Fortis Healthcare Holdings, to “clutch on to the shares” till further orders.
 
 The SC is hearing a petition filed by Japanese  , which is seeking to enforce a Rs 2,562 crore arbitration award it had won against Ranbaxy. Brothers Malvinder Singh and Shivinder Singh, the erstwhile owners of Ranbaxy and promoters of Fortis, had sold the drug maker to Daiichi in 2008 for $4.2 billion.
 
 With the banks getting restive as the value of frozen Fortis Healthcare shares with them are eroding, a bench of Justices Gogoi and R Banumathi on Friday relaxed its earlier orders and said, “The status quo granted shall not apply to shares of Fortis Healthcare held by Fortis Healthcare Holdings Private as may have been encumbered on or before the interim orders of this court on August 11 and August 31, 2017.”
 
 This will allow the banks to dispose of those Fortis Healthcare shares which were encumbered before August 11 and raise money.
 
 Daiichi is enforcing an arbitration award of Rs 2,562 crore it won against Ranbaxy before a Singapore tribunal. Daiichi had sold Ranbaxy to Sun Pharmaceuticals in 2014, but had initiated arbitration proceedings in Singapore before the sale on learning that Ranbaxy was severely indicted in the US for suppressing certain facts about its products. In 2016, the Singapore tribunal awarded Rs 2,562 crore to Daiichi as damages against Ranbaxy.
 
 To enforce the arbitration award, Daiichi had moved the Delhi High Court and the matter is pending. During pendency of the award enforcement petition, Daiichi wanted a complete freeze on dilution of Fortis Healthcare Holdings’s stake in Fortis Healthcare .
 
 The Japanese company has sought to block efforts by the Singhs to sell their stake in Fortis Healthcare Holdings, held through holding companies RHC Holding and Oscar  . Fortis Healthcare Holdings, in turn, owns around 37% of Fortis Healthcare.
 
