A collective of creative women with strong voices together made a difference at this unique event. This was one event with a heart. 

 This two-day music and comedy festival Arré Siren, was reportedly, India's first all-woman, one-of-its-kind festival. It was headlined entirely by women artistes that showcased talent and creativity by renowned musicians, stand-up comedians, and role models. 
 A few of the artistes included Raja Kumari, Kaneez Surka,  , Sumukhi Suresh, Richa Chadha, Mohini Dey, Zila Khan, Madboy/Mink and more…
 
 This first of its kind festival with 15 artistes served up an eclectic mix of exciting performances across genres like Hip Hop, Funk, Electronica, Jazz, and Indian Fusion, all of it served with a side dish of India’s best comedy. 
 
 There has been a massive disparity in the representation of female artistes at festivals across the globe. The under representation of women across visual and audio entertainment is rather disappointing.   says, “Even the most reputed festivals keep their headlining spots primarily for male acts. Just looking at the Grammy’s alone; only a third of all individual credits were held by women in 2017. The voices of women is either missing from popular music or getting increasingly marginalized. The story is no different in India."
 
  
  
 
 She adds. "I have known the struggles, and made it completely on my own. I am now in a position where I can ensure that young women don't need to follow a similar rather daunting path to success. I think it’s time for women to take the centre stage to bring change. Arré and I are just trying to balance the playing field and establish a platform which will spearhead inclusion and systemic change in the establishment of female acts in the entertainment space.   will offer females a chance to shape the narratives and the landscape of entertainment in India. We need these voices today more than we ever did before.”
  
  
 Jaideep Singh, the director, of the event stated, “This has been designed with strong content and ground legs making it ready for massive scale up in the coming year. Its unique mix of strong editorial with content and great experience on ground will be deployed across. We want our society and creative fraternity to be more inclusive and have greater gender diversity. This event will also feature a mentorship program for exceptionally talented female students and professionals through which they can meet and be mentored by some of the most successful women in the creative industry. This extension would be moving to cities across the country.”
 
 World Music band Maati Baani said, “When women are going places where they never got an opportunity to venture until now, it’s time to come together to share our experiences and also celebrate womanhood like never before! That's what Arré Siren is for me.” 
 
 
