NEW DELHI: The   on Monday ordered   major   to furnish a   of   owned by it and its subsidiaries in India and abroad by April 5, as it failed to deposit Rs 750 crore in the SC registry to   those who had bought homes in the builder’s incomplete residential projects.

 Casting the net wide to protect the interest of homebuyers, a bench of Chief Justice Dipak Misra and Justices A M Khanwilkar and D Y Chandrachud ordered, “Competent authority of Unitech Limited shall file an affidavit mentioning the details of its properties and its subsidiaries, situated in India as well as outside, which are free from encumbrances.”
 
 With Unitech’s MD Sanjay Chandra in jail in cases relating to non-refund of money to homebuyers, the bench acted tough and said if the list of assets turned out to be factually wrong, the court would initiate proceedings against the company under Section 340 of Criminal Procedure Code, under which officials filing incorrect documents in court could face jail. 
 
 Last year, the SC had told Unitech that it would consider grant of interim bail to Chandra if the company deposited Rs 750 crore in court by December. On Monday, Unitech’s counsel Mukul Rohatgi and Ranjit Kumar said the company had signed a deal with J M Financial Ltd which would enable it to complete under-construction projects and allot flats to buyers.
 
 When the court inquired about details of the Unitech-JMF agreement, little was forthcoming. While Unitech hedged, the JFM counsel told the court that he was not aware of the details and would need time to take instructions from his client.
 
 Smelling a rat, the bench ordered JMF’s managing director, along with competent officers, to be present in court on March 12 to answer the court’s questions.
 
 Another real estate company, Pioneer Urban Land and Infrastructure Ltd, brought a new dimension to the case relating to incomplete housing projects of Unitech, which had faced proceedings under the Insolvency Code brought by an IDBI-led banking consortium. The SC has stayed the NCLT proceedings and has asked the Interim Resolution Professional (IRP) to submit its proposal to the SC.
 
 Pioneer, through senior advocate C A Sundaram and advocate Nikhil Nayyar, said it had pooled nearly 600 acres with Unitech for construction of three residential projects, all of which were incomplete. It said even though the SC had stayed all proceedings against Unitech, the National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission was proceeding against it and had asked it to fully refund homebuyers in these three projects even though it was a 40:60 partnership with Unitech.
 
 The SC asked Pioneer to deposit Rs 40 crore, Rs 30 crore by March 30 and the balance by April 5. It said, “The said amount shall be distributed amongst homebuyers who have claimed refund in respect of the concerned projects before the national commission. We may clarify that proceedings shall remain stayed where there is collaboration of the applicants with the Unitech Ltd. Nayyar shall provide a list of applicants who have approached national commission to amicus curiae Pawanshree Agarwal who will tally it with those who have registered for receiving refund.” 
 
 
