NAGPUR: The world-famous Tadoba-Andhari Tiger Reserve (TATR) in   is facing a risk of isolation. If Gosikhurd irrigation canal is already proving to be a death knell for tigers, the four-laning by PWD, without wildlife mitigation measures, from Armori to Nagbhid and beyond has cut the functional tiger corridor between Tadoba-Umred-Karhandla and Nagzira-Navegaon.

 PWD is upgrading the existing two-lane road to four-lane between Nagpur-Umred-Nagbhid-Armori (137km), and Chandrapur-Mul-Sindewahi-Murumgaon (128km). Both the roads are being constructed without wildlife mitigation measures, and will completely prevent   tigers from moving north to Umred-Karhandla-Navegaon-Nagzira, and towards   in the south.
 
 Even as the corridor is being cut right under their nose, territorial and wildlife officials are mute spectators. Bramhapuri deputy conservator (DyCF) Kulraj Singh said, “Forest area is not being sought for road expansion. Any development activity is bound to affect tigers. I’ll have to check WII reports on the corridor.”
 
 PCCF (wildlife) AK   said, “I would certainly seek a reply from territorial officials and see how we can intervene. I have not been told about the issue.”
 
 PWD executive engineer Sushma Sakharwade said, “Between Nagbhid-Brahmapuri, we are doing road work in our 24 metre right of way (ROW). No forest land is needed. Forest officials said it was not a tiger corridor, hence no mitigation steps were taken.”
 
 Bramhapuri DyCF completely ignored Wildlife Institute of India’s (WII) scientific report submitted to him, and to PCCF office too, some months ago. The WII report titled ‘Collars and crossing zones in Eastern Vidarbha Landscape’ was based on telemetry data of tigers.
 
 “There are no checks on speed, nor signage informing about animal movement on these roads through forest patches. We have identified four road stretches critical for animal movement that need immediate attention. Over 3km Brahmapuri-Nagbhid is one of the stretches,” said Bilal Habib, WII tiger scientist.
 
 “The stretch is identified as Patch 4. It is used intensively by tigers dispersing between Tadoba, Karhandla and Nagzira. Road sans mitigation will isolate tigers, increase conflict, and also affect gene pool,” said Habib.
 
 Even as Tadoba tigers face extinction threat, a parliamentary standing committee on environment, science and technology will be in Tadoba and Umred-Karhandla on Wednesday for tiger safari.
 
 Wildlife conservationists are perturbed over the silence of forest officials. “Every time approaching judiciary for mitigation measures is not right. Officials should have pushed for mitigation steps. In NH-6 and NH-7 widening, apex court had already given directives to construct mitigation measures in wildlife corridors. This is applicable everywhere,” said road ecologist Milind Pariwakam.
 
 “Even on NH-7 road widening, NHAI took steps when NGOs approached courts,” said Udayan Patil, a wildlife enthusiast.
 
 “Road expansions around Tadoba without mitigation measures will cut vital corridors. After the WII report, what action has forest department and NTCA taken?” asks  , working for tigers in Chandrapur-Gadchiroli.
 
 “What is the use of such telemetry study if preventive measures are not taken?” lamented conservationist Prafulla Bhamburkar. He questioned the PWD move on ROW. In Melghat railway line project, MoEFCC rejected argument of Indian Railways that it has power to acquire forest land falling in ROW for expansion, and that Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972, and Forest (Conservation) Act 1980 are not binding. “Then, how can road development agencies like NHAI and PWD take the opposite stand?” Bhamburkar asked.
 
 The Chandrapur-Mul road is proposed for expansion all the way to Murumgaon in Gadchiroli. PWD says there is no need for wildlife clearance as road does not pass through eco-sensitive zone (ESZ). But the said road goes for 20km through the ESZ close to TATR.
 
 “It seems contradictory papers were submitted for forest clearance. Similar is the argument for Nagbhid-Brahmapuri road, which is false,” says Pariwakam.
 
 “The PWD move is a repeat of NH-7, and forest department has wilfully suppressed facts to help PWD,” said Shrikant Deshpande of Nature Conservation Association (NCA).
 
 
