MUMBAI: Diva resident Vikas G doesn’t cut an athletic figure at 4 feet 9 inches and 34 kilos, but he will attempt the   at Sunday’s  . 

 Vikas (29) suffered from tuberculosis for most part of the past seven years and now wants the world to know that he could be saved only because he got access—albeit with difficulty—to two of the latest anti-TB   called bedaquiline and delamanid. “I weighed 29 kilos until 15 months back when I was put on a combination of these two drugs,” said Vikas.
 
 India, infamous as the   capital of the world, offers limited access to bedaquiline at some of its health centres. Both drugs are not available in the open market due to fears of overuse and subsequent resistance. Doctors, though, can write to manufacturers and import them on compassionate grounds or with payment on a case-to-case basis.
 
 In Vikas’s case, international NGO Médecins Sans Frontières (MSF) imported bedaquiline at $900 for a course and delamanid at $1,700 a course plus an import fee of $600 for each.   has 62 patients on the bedaquiline-delamanid combination. “As these medicines are too expensive for individual patients to afford, the government should provide them as part of its TB   programme,” said Vikas, who is now free of the disease but needs to continue treatment for six more months. He and three MSF staffers will participate in the Dream Run to popularize this demand. “Extreme resistance needs extreme commitment. This is our message to the government,” said MSF’s Dr Aparna Iyer, who will run with Vikas.
 
 Vikas, an embroidery worker, was first diagnosed with TB in 2010. “I wish I had taken medicines regularly in those nine months. I wouldn’t have suffered so much if I had,” he told TOI. Two years later, he developed multidrug-resistant TB and visited many doctors in the hope of getting the right combination of drugs. In October 2016, doctors at Sewri TB Hospital sent him to the MSF clinic operating out of BMC’s Shatabadi Hospital in Chembur because he was resistant to all the drugs offered in the government’s TB control programme.
 
 MSF India’s medical coordinator Stobdan Kalon said there is a need to improve access to new medicines in India. “There are many patients in India who have extreme drug resistance. Existing drugs are not sufficient to help them. There is a need to add a new drug to existing regimen to improve the efficacy of treatment,” he said. Delamanid and bedaquiline are the first anti-TB drugs after a 50-year gap. “They have shown promise among patients in India and other countries.” 
 
 Vikas has been practising for the Dream Run for two months. “I jog on the terrace for 20-30 minutes every day. I feel better thereafter,” said Vikas who needed extra doses of medicines. MSF doctor Karan Kamble, who examined him on Friday, said, “BMI-wise, Vikas is fine. But he should not exert himself during the run and stop as soon as he feels breathless.”
 
 
