BENGALURU: The internet of things (IoT) is everywhere, and in Bengaluru, it is enabling apartment residents keep a tab on their water usage on an hourly basis through a smart metering system. Besides, it also helps them manage leaks remotely.

 The system has two benefits: One, it allows each individual household to keep track of its water usage and reduce wastage, and two, it helps beat the standard practice of collecting a common flat rate from all houses as water bill, regardless of usage.
 
 Several apartment owners in the city now bank on the smart meter service called WaterOn, created by   and   in 2014. Their company   has more than 3,500 individual apartment owners as users and Arneesh Rose Apartments on Bannerghatta Road, was the first complex to install it.
 
 
  
 
 Using IoT to enable communication between various meters which are installed at each water inlet in every apartment, WaterOn is helping these complexes manage their water better. Special-purpose cables connect all the meters and also power the devices, including storing 45 days of consumption data. 
 
 “People were hesitant to adopt meters as it was a novel idea and we were a start-up. We interacted with members of more than a 100 resident welfare associations (RWAs) for 18 months to understand their need,”   said.
 
 Their firm offers two models now: One that costs Rs 9,500 has remote leak plugging and shuts the water supply completely if the family is not at home and the other that is priced at Rs 7,500 alerts you of consumption on an hourly basis apart from generating other data. 
 
 “We’ve found that our service plans do the best where residents pay a monthly sum of Rs 60-Rs 100 depending on the nature of the product for the next 10 years for data billing services alone,” he said. 
 
 App to monitor data
 
 All the data from the meters can be monitored through a mobile app, to which more members can be added. The monthly bill generated also lists the performance of the flat compared to others. 
 
 “In a classic case, 80% of the flats were paying for excessive use and wastage by 20% of them. There have been cases where some residents opted out of the metering system but they soon switched as everyone else became conscious and started using less. So they were billed based on their collective share subtracted from the total bill for the apartments that were metered,” Shukla added.
 
 Vishal Arhatia, a resident of Innovative Timber Leaf apartments in Sector II, HSR Layout, said his complex with 64 apartments was using six tankers per day in the summer.
 
 “It was a major problem as it was also difficult to find vendors. Residents were in favour of paying only for what they use. After the installation, our overall consumption has come down by 25%. While we were paying Rs 1,500 as a flat rate, now the average is closer to Rs 700,” he said.
 
 Residents of Arneesh Rose apartments, the first complex to instal WaterOn got piped connection only in 2016, and with the new metering system, they have been able to manage water without having to depend on tankers, which used to be their mainstay before the connections arrived.
 
 “While water rationing was the norm earlier, we have round-the-clock supply now. There is a reduction of 50% consumption because of water rationing; residents would leave their taps open and a lot would get wasted. One tanker would get wasted in a few hours and we wouldn’t be able to identify in whose apartment. Now, people are more alert. Basically we wanted a transparent solution. Now, people cant dispute the reading, and plumbing work in any one apartment doesn’t affect others,” said  , resident of   in Hennur.
 
 
