CHANDIGARH: Fraudsters cheated two persons of cash worth Rs 75, 000 near the banks in   and Sector 32 on Tuesday. 

 Both the persons had gone to deposit money in their bank accounts where two persons duped them and fled with their cash. On the statements of the complainants, Manimajra and Sector 34 police have registered a case and started investigation. Police have collected CCTV footage of the banks and two suspects have been caught in the footages.
 
 In both the incidents, the accused adopted the same modus operandi to fool the victims.  , a resident of Sector 52 , reported that that he had gone to the   in Sector 32 to deposit cash of Rs 40,000. As he reached the bank, two miscreants approached him and befriended him. Meanwhile, one of the accused told Firoz that they have cash Rs 2 lakh as cash, but don't have bank accounts. They requested Firoz to deposit their money in his account. They promised him if he deposited the amount, they would give him a share. Firoz agreed and the accused handed him a bundle of blank papers wrapped in a piece of cloth and fled with his cash of Rs 40,000. When he opened the cloth, he found blank papers in the size of currency notes. He raised an alarm and informed the police about the cheating. Cops from Sector 34 reached the spot and recorded his statement. Police collected the CCTV footage from the bank. 
 
 Another person ,  , 16, a resident of village  , alleged that two persons took Rs 35,000 from him outside the ICICI bank in Manimajra same day. Kamodh Kumar, studying in class X, had gone to deposit Rs 35,000 in the account of his brother-in-law. Two persons met him and told that they had stolen Rs 3 lakh cash and wanted to deposit but they didn't have a bank account. 
 
 The accused gave him Rs 2,000 and told him to deposit their money in his account and give them only Rs 35,000. The accused handed over the envelope of Rs 3 lakh and took his Rs 35,000 and fled from the spot. Later, when he went to deposit the money at the counter, he found only one note of Rs 2,000 was the real one and other were blank white papers in the size of currency notes. Manimajra police registered a case against unknown person and started probe. 
 
 Police are scrutinising CCTV footages of the banks to nab the accused.
 
 
