 is one of the most popular singers and actors in the Punjabi entertainment industry. The artiste, whose Punjabi film ' ' released yesterday, spoke to BT about how he struggled to establish himself as a singer, his foray into acting and why he wants to do more Bollywood films. Excerpts…

  
 
 
  Before the song 'Angreji Beat' was used in a Hindi film, I was recognised for my work only in Punjab. In fact, when I had collaborated on it, the idea was that it will cater only to a Punjabi audience. However, when it was used in Cocktail, it made me popular in other parts of the country as well.
 
  
 
 
 Music runs in the blood of Punjabis. I used to perform on stage while in school. In 1996, I shifted from my village in Punjab to Chandigarh. I was drawn towards Punjabi folk music, but I also started learning music formally. My first album, 'Chakkh Lai', released when I was just 18 years old. In fact, I struggled a lot to make a mark in the field of singing. To establish myself as a singer, I had to do many stage shows. Eventually, in 2004, one of my songs became a huge hit and catapulted me into the limelight.
 
  
 
 
  I am inspired by the great Punjabi singer, Amar Singh Chamkila. All the songs I sing are inspired from folk music. Only the beats and the compositions are presented in a manner that hooks the urban audience.
 
  
 
 
 Around 2005, I was a very popular singer and the youth of Punjab related to me. This resulted in many film offers coming my way. The Punjabi film industry was also finding a new lease. Some of the films that were being made were good. As a child, not only was I interested in singing, but I used to do a lot of theatre as well. When I began my singing career, I thought about acting in movies, but the quality of Punjabi films was not very good. As it is, I had to struggle to establish myself in Punjab and I didn’t want to come to Mumbai and struggle to become an actor. In 2009, Jimmy Sheirgill’s team came to me with an offer. The film was 'Mel Karade Rabba' (2010). Though I played the second lead, the film turned out to be a huge hit. Since then, there has been no looking back.
 
 
 
 Diljit and I had a lot going for us even before we became actors because we were famous for our singing even in the overseas market. The audience that appreciated our music, came to see our films. They might not have watched Punjabi films earlier, but because we acted in films, they were keen to watch us. When I sign a movie, the one thing that I ensure is that the project has good technicians. The quality of filmmaking has gone up and that’s why more people want to watch Punjabi movies.
 
 
 
 
 Making sequels was not a trend in Punjabi cinema. Whenever I would meet my fans, they would keep asking me when we were going to make a sequel. But it took time for things to fall into place in terms of story and finances. This film is actually not a sequel; it is a brand new story, but the flavour and atmospherics are the same.
 
 
 
 
 After directing ' ' (2016) and producing 'Manje Bistre' (2017), the next film that I will be backing is 'Mar Gaye Oye Loko'. It falls in the fantasy and comedy genre. Fantasy films are not made in the Punjabi industry. So, it’s a first attempt of sorts. Then we will be making ' .'
 
 
 
 
 I do get offers from Hindi films, but I don’t want to do some of them because I worry that my Punjabi audience might question me about my choice of roles. They might ask me, what was so great about the character or what was the Punjabiat in it. 'Lucknow Central' was a film I did because the role in it was appreciated by my Punjabi fans, even though the film didn’t do well at the box office. I aspire to do at least one or two films in Hindi every year.
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
