NEW DELHI: There were a lot of surprises when Delhi Police got to the bottom of the kidnapping of a five-year-old boy late on Monday. Not only had abductors never targeted a school van or had opened fire during the process earlier, but the criminals were first timers too. And yet, they showed the calibre of professional kidnappers and ably masked their identities and whereabouts even though they remained in a 10-kilometre radius of the crime scene.

 Police commissioner Amulya Patnaik himself monitored the case from January 25, the day Vihaan Gupta was kidnapped. When the Shahdara police claimed they were close to cracking the case, Pa0tnaik assigned the case to Crime Branch. The local police’s lead, however, led the investigators on a wild goose chase to Morena in MP, where they found the suspect only to realise he wasn’t party to the crime.
 
  
 After a clean getaway with Vihaan, the kidnappers flummoxed the cops by remaining silent for three days. They gave police the first opening only on January 28 when they made a voice call from a number ending in 4735 to demand a ransom of Rs 60 lakh. The call was made by Pankaj speaking in a feminine voice over a phone that was stolen. Its SIM card was discarded after the call.
 
 “In the last one month, the kidnappers had snatched three phones, the last from a man in Sadiq Nagar after the abduction,” a police officer said. “The other two, including one with a double SIM card, were stolen from Gokulpuri and GTB Enclave in north-east Delhi before the incident.”
 
 Hours after making the first ransom call, the kidnappers also shot a video of Vihaan saying, “Papa, I love you” and forwarded it on Whatsapp. The kidnappers used two other numbers to reiterate their demands, but the cops could not track their location as they were mostly using Whatsapp messages.
 
 As the cops struggled, the Special Cell provided crucial technical inputs, revealed sources. Web logs were used to identify two dozen suspect numbers. 
 
 From them, Crime Branch sleuths fished out two numbers ending in 9433 and 6986 being used by the kidnappers. A second video and a photograph of the child were sent from the 9433 number, but the SIM was then immediately discarded.
 
 The cops were luckier trailing the 6986 number and had clarity about their targets and location by Sunday. Posing as salesmen and students, police conducted a door-to-door survey in Shalimar City and the adjacent  .
 
 On Monday, the kidnappers informed the family to deliver the ransom to Cross River mall in Shahdara, but did not convey the date or time. By then, police had managed to obtain the photograph of the suspects and were certain of their movements. But, a decision to raid had to be taken. In a close-door meeting on Monday evening, the police chief discussed all nuances with special commissioner R P Upadhyay and joint commissioner Alok Kumar.
 
 Kumar, with his prior experience in Special Cell and crime investigation, was asked to take the lead. He formed four teams under ACP Rajesh Kumar and inspectors Vinay Tyagi, Surender and Sanjay Neolia. Mastermind Nitin Sharma was picked up first when he was returning from a wedding. At Ebony Towers, where Vihaan was being held, all exits were secured as were the balconies of Flat No 505. Sharma was then prompted to ring the lethal bell.
 
 
