CHANDIGARH: Terming low allocation of funds to this city for the next financial years as a “matter of concern”, the parliamentary standing committee on home affairs has stated that it will “adversely affect” the development activity.

 Taking note of the current financial woes of the   of Chandigarh, the committee opined that the ministry of home affairs (MHA) should not leave the civic body in the lurch but provide it with to enough money to function properly. In the report tabled in the   and the Lok Sabha on Wednesday, the committee has advised the MHA to plead Chandigarh’s case with the finance ministry at the time of presenting revised estimates.
 
 
  
 
 On February 26, UT adviser   had informed the committee during its meeting that low allocation of funds would halt many works in the corporation. The committee also regretted a lower allocation of Rs 505.03 crore to Chandigarh under the capital head, against the previous year’s revised estimate of Rs 792.58 crore. For the 2018-19 fiscal, the city received Rs 4,511.91 crore against a demand for Rs 5,908.22 crore.
 
 Against a demand for Rs 1,001 crore, the corporation has got a mere Rs 317 crore. On February 26, Chandigarh’s representative on this committee that includes local member of   (MP)   had appraised it of a shortfall of about Rs 682 crore in the allocation of funds to the corporation and feared that the civic body might not be able to even pay the salaries to its employees after a few months.
 
 The corporation’s monthly liability of Rs 45 crore and annual liability of Rs 540 crore include no developmental work. Against this heavy liability, the MC’s annual income is only about Rs 154 crore, from water charges and property tax. Expressing anguish over the shortfall of about Rs 682 crore, the committee stated that the local bodies could not be ignored and they deserved higher allocation.
 
 Supporting the corporation’s demand for more money, the committee also clarified that the MC’s excessive dependence on the administration for funds is not desirable, since it would impair its autonomy. The committee recommended that the administration should make a long-term strategy in consultation with the   for the latter’s financial autonomy. Another recommendation is to ask the corporation to explore avenues of financial sustainability and use the law taxation powers to collect the levy.
 
 
 
