

 
 
 Well, migration to small and big cities is not a question of choice for most Indian villagers, especially those living in distant villages of Bihar and other north Indian states. I left my village about two decades ago and would love to return, but what do I return to? Bad infrastructure? Non-existent schools and colleges? Or an absent industry? To top it all, I have no friends left in my village; most of the menfolk are out in the cities or in the  , for education or livelihood. Those who stay back are either housewives, or old folk, or job and school discards. There is a clear disconnect.
 In my part of the world, the villages are now incomplete jungles of concrete where green is increasingly scarce. Village relics are fast being replaced with things considered ‘modern’. The ‘authentic’ village will soon be confined to stories and dreams.
 
 
 
 Village settlements are age-old communities, having grown in an organic fashion. They do have their own problems — like caste and religion-related rigidness — but, over the years, villagers living together have settled their boundaries and sensibilities. Ghettoes, on the other hand, are urban setups in Indian cities with their numbers rising daily. And when it’s a hurt ghetto, like most Muslim ghettoes, its equation with the world remains unhealthy. For its residents, the ghetto brings memories of riots and discrimination in housing and jobs. It constantly reminds them of the unkept promises of political parties they have voted for. In villages, even if a single community dominates, it’s more about achieving piousness. Ghettoes, however, are a political response and demand a different sort of attention.
 
 
 
 India, sadly, was always divided along these lines. But now the divide has become a proud part of our discourse. Subtlety even in bigotry is gone, and democratically elected leaders don’t hesitate in exploiting the fault lines publicly. To unite one set of people, you are dividing them. If we go by history, it doesn’t stop at one community or ideology; it goes only downhill. It’s only logical that a   is followed by a Trump. 
 
 
 
 The book is an attempt to understand the world from my perspective. But the feedback I have got especially from young readers is gratifying. Almost all of them told me they see themselves in my story. There is a clear vacuum of young Muslim voices. Even then, I don’t see myself as the voice of Muslims, because the Muslim community is as diverse as India; I see myself merely as an addition to that collective.
 
 
 
 Writing this book was partly an attempt at my own catharsis. Yes, people normally don’t write a memoir at such a young age, but the stories I tell needed a young voice. We know what our elders think, but we rarely read in detail what young Muslims think. They are aware of their rights and duties, demand their rightful place in society, and do not ask for any undue favours. The book certainly brings some sense of closure on a personal level, but a lot remains to be written — and justice for most disadvantaged sections of our society remains elusive.
 
 
 
 It’s an imbalance of power, in short. Ideally, a democratic society should have corrected itself and such imbalances should have faded away, but we still are a medieval society at many levels. Part of the answer is that we must uphold our constitutional values. Our institutions should treat an individual as an individual, irrespective of his or her identity markers. Then, the spaces where we interact would automatically become neutral, and we would never need to use ‘a normal person’ in quotes.
 
 
 
 I see all forms of ‘ism’ as a problem when they turn rigid. They are supposed to serve us by bringing some clarity in our thoughts and, in the case of patriotism, a sense of belongingness. But by making it rigid, we end up excluding more than we include.
 
