KOTA: Markets in   remained closed on the second day on Tuesday as district administration failed to pacify public unrest among majority by not taking any action against those of a particular community involved in stone pelting over Ram Navami procession on Sunday night. 

 The markets in Nainwa, Keshoraipatan, Hindoli, Talera town and several villages of the district also remained partially closed on Tuesday. The district administration however claimed to have a common agreement assuring the markets would be opened by Wednesday morning.
 
 The situation in Bundi city turned tense on Sunday noon after some youths of a particular community erected green flag over the rooftop of old city kotwali building where throne of Raja Bhav Singh is situated in Tilack Chowk area of the city. Later at night some unidentified persons pelted some bricks pieces at Ramnavmi procession while it was passing through Tilack Chowk area and a large number of people from a particular community attempted to stop the procession at Meira gate area by pelting stones at the procession. Two persons including a home guard on duty were injured in the incident.
 
 Police however on Monday arrested 11 persons five from a particular community under various sections of IPC but avoided arresting maximum of those involved in stone pelting at Meira gate area and that further intensified the unrest and anger among the majority against police and district administration. ‘We want a stern action against all those involved in stone pelting over Ram Navami procession in Tilack Chowk and Meira Gate areas on Sunday’, told Noratmal, a jewellery trader in Bundi.
 
 Bundi police could not taken immediate action against the accused of stone pelting over procession and allowed to mount up unrest and anger among majority while the police in   immediately booked 20 to 25 people involved in stone pelting over Ramnavmi procession in Chawani areaon Sunday night and arrested four of them tranquilize the situation but such action was not taken in Bundi, told senior citizen in Bundi city.
 
 Bundi municipal council Sabhapati (head)   today also held a meeting with BJP councilors and condemned the stone pelting over Ramnavmi procession demanding immediate arrested of all those involved in stone pelting incidents. The councilors in the meeting also warned to submit resignations if the action was not taken against the accused of stone pelting and violating communal harmony of the city. 
 
 Bundi MLA Ashok Dogera, however refuted the allegation of mild action against those involved in stone pelting incidents at two places in Bundi and said five of the involved in stone pelting were arrested and booked under relevant sections of IPC. The markets in the city would be opened by Wednesday as common agreement on the matter in the meeting today evening was reached upon,   assured.
 
 The eleven of the accused, five of the stone pelting and six other from majority community were today produced before the court that ordered to send them to jail in judicial custody. Meanwhile, five others arrested for disturbance of public peace under section 107 and 151 were granted bail.
 
 
