NAGPUR: In a bid to make Nagpur a Smart City, the   will organize cleanliness competition in all urban local governments from January 1, 2018, and February 28. As a part of the competition, the health department of   ( ) will conduct cleanliness competition in all 38 prabhags of 10 zones. 

 As per the state government, three prizes will be given to the winning prabhags. The first three prizes will be of Rs50 lakh, Rs35 lakh and Rs20 lakh respectively.
 
 To participate in this competition and for compilation and submission of all 38 prabhagwise report to the state government, the NMC will be hiring Mumbai-based All India Local Self Government (AILSG) by paying Rs6.50 lakh. 
 
 The AILSG will help the civic body to assess the prabhags’ participation and its observation. The proposal to appoint AILSG will be tabled before the standing committee meeting to be held on January 30. 
 
 The traffic department of NMC has also submitted a proposal to appoint   (UMTC) to carry out a survey for on-street and off-street parking across the city. The survey will focus on city’s main areas, neighbouring areas, main roads, internal roads. The high court has already directed the NMC to prepare a detailed parking policy to streamline city’s traffic. 
 
 The NMC will pay Rs80 lakh to UMTC in four instalments — Rs14 lakh on submission of inception report, Rs21 lakh on submission of concept plan, Rs21 lakh on submission of draft final report including all the GAD drawings and Rs14 lakh on submission of final report, including all GAD drawings and the cost estimate.
 
 Besides these two proposals, the civic administration has also submitted 29 other proposals and one of them is for preparing revised development plan of the city. The town planning department has proposed to award contract to private firm M/s Monarch Surveyors and Engineering Consultants Private Limited to survey and prepare a map of about 22,700 hectares of city’s original limits. The firm has quoted Rs8,029 per hectare for the services, which brings the total survey cost to Rs18.22 crore. The survey will be carried out under the approved plan of improvement plan in the city.
 
 
