PUDUCHERRY: Chief minister V   on Friday brushed aside lieutenant governor Kiran Bedi’s corruption charges in the tendering process by the Puducherry cooperative wholesale stores to purchase sarees, dhotis and shirt bits in the Union territory.

 Speaking to reporters, Narayanasamy said her charges were “baseless and far from the truth”. He said six agencies, including a government agency Kendriya Bhandar’ (KB), had submitted their quotations to the stores for the supply of textile materials. The stores sent the samples of KB to the National textile corporation limited laboratory at Coimbatore for testing.
 
 He said the test results revealed that barring the dhoti one, the other two material samples did not meet the technical specifications. KB submitted a complaint to the lieutenant governor’s office claiming that it had submitted test reports (of the sample) by central agencies in Hyderabad and its products were well within the technical specifications. 
 
 Narayanasamy said the government decided to send KB’s samples for testing again. “We have sought the NTCL laboratory to test the KB samples again. The tendering process is under way. We have not finalised it. Technical bidding is in the process. We have not commenced financial bidding. At this junction, where does the question of corruption arise? Can she (lieutenant governor) prove any corrupt practices? She has been attempting to bring a bad name to the government and to tarnish the government’s image,” said Narayanasamy.
 
 Earlier, undeterred by the repeated charges that   has been blocking implementation of various projects of the government, Bedi said her office will continue to blow the whistle and halt corruption in the Union territory.
 
 “Lieutenant governor’s office will continue to blow the whistle. To halt corruption anywhere once it gets to know. Or has credible evidence of it. It shall also continue to place facts in public domain as it believes people have a right to know. There is no shortcut to transparency and accountability,” she said in a WhatsApp message (sic).
 
 In a letter to Prime Minister  , Bedi brought to his notice that the chief minister and some of his cabinet colleagues have been persistently propagating the allegation that she continues to be a bottleneck in the implementation of welfare schemes. “Their pronouncements are far from the truth,” she said, furnishing complete information on the approvals accorded by her on the schemes submitted by the government.
 
 The government had sought her approval to supply rice free of cost to all ration card holders. However, Bedi sought the government to exclude the above poverty line families from the free scheme and approved the proposal. She said all files related to rice schemes were cleared – after recording observations – for implementation prudently and efficiently without wasting public money.
 
 
