PUDUCHERRY: With a warm and gentle breeze for company, the coastal town of   played perfect hosts as its first-ever regatta event – 'Sailing the  ' – concluded on Sunday. Presented with pristine conditions near   fishing harbour, a total of 50 sailors from around the world got the opportunity to showcase their skills in the event. The fact that they were trained by French Olympian sailor Felix Pruvot, who represented his country at Athens in 2004, must have only added to their excitement. Apart from conducting a week-long coaching camp from January 18,   lent a helping hand to sailors seeking his expertise.

 
 Asked how the decision to arrive here came about, Pruvot explained: "It was planned quite late. A friend told me that they were looking for a coach here. I was interested and got in touch with   (PSA). I already have coached in other countries including US and Sweden. I'm very happy to be here."
 
 While the competitors have all praised the Frenchman, the latter has been equally complimentary of the young talents he has seen. He picked out 16-year-old Harshita Tomar for special praise. "I have been very impressed by Harshita in particular. She has got a bright future. She is potentially up there with the best. One problem is that she is very light. She has to improve her fitness and work on her physique. Sailing is a very physical sport. You need strong legs and arms to be able to do well. You also need to stay cool under pressure."
 
 It's the emergence of youngsters like Harshita, perhaps, that has encouraged Pruvot to take a firm interest in coaching. Yet, he has not lost his mojo for competing at the highest level.
 
 "I'm really enjoying transferring my experience and knowledge to young people as a coach. I still want to continue sailing, though, because it gives me pleasure. My plan is to participate in Tour de France (sailing) in July. That is my next big target," said Pruvot.
 
 At 37, Pruvot knows that he will never be able to experience the high of an Olympics ever again, but takes solace from his "achievement" in the 2004 edition. "I didn't start the competition very well. Eventually, though, I had nothing to lose and ended up winning two races. I couldn't win a medal but taking part itself is a big achievement. There is only one person from each country for sailing. Coming from France, it's very difficult to qualify itself," he recalled.
 
 Harshita,   claim top honours: India's emerging star Harshita Tomar and French national team member   claimed top honours in their respective categories at the end of the four-day event on Sunday. Organised as part of the Bonjour India festival, Sofiane won the Laser Radial class while Harshita came from behind to emerge victorious in the Laser 4.7 class.
 
