NEW DELHI: After the   stayed the amendments made to Master Plan Delhi 2021 by   on Tuesday, the   drive looks set to continue. Civic officials claimed to be acting on the directions of the Supreme Court-appointed monitoring committee and the shutting of illegal establishments will continue as per orders received.

 The three mayors said that the municipal corporations would continue to act on the directions of the Supreme Court-appointed monitoring committee, but would look at the possibility of providing relief to  . Kamaljeet Sehrawat, mayor of South Delhi Municipal Corporation, said, “We will find alternatives because the sealing drive has affected the business of traders.”
 
 Preety Agarwal, mayor of North Delhi Municipal Corporation, added, “We cannot go against the Supreme Court, but at the same time it is important to examine the order and take appropriate action.”
 
 The apex court pulled up Delhi government, DDA and the municipal corporations for not filing affidavits before proposing changes to the master plan. However, senior municipal officials claimed that the amendments were made by DDA and the corporations were not associated with the exercise. “DDA made the changes after examining the suggestions and objections received from residents and traders,” a civic official said. 
 
 DDA proposed to increase floor area ratio for shops in local shopping complexes, have a relook at land-use conversion rates and allow the use of basements and upper floors for commercial activities. The municipal bodies were required to provide parking space or develop a common parking with the residents or declare the market pedestrian. 
 
 The monitoring committee had directed the municipal corporations to close down business establishments that had carried out unauthorised construction, misused property and failed to pay conversion charges. Till date, over 2,500 shops, restaurants, showrooms and offices have been hauled up for violation of such   norms.
 
 There are 106 local shopping complexes in the city that will once again be the cynosure of the monitoring committee after the stay on the amendments. “The traders are disappointed with the Supreme Court’s staying the changes proposed by DDA,” said Sanjiv Mehra, president, Khan Market Traders Association. “We have called a meeting on Wednesday to decide what course of action we should take against the order.”
 
 
