MELBOURNE: As the sun came down on Melbourne Park and the lights flickered to life, a pair of outsiders - a bespectacled 21-year-old Korean   and a 26-year-old American Tennys Sandgren - broke into the inner sanctum of Grand Slam tennis, making their first major quarterfinals with shock results.

 
 Chung, the youngest player left in the draw, bettered his idol six-time champion  . He sprinted and stretched, simply reached for a dream. After 3 hours and 21 minutes he punctuated a stunning 7-6 (7-4), 7-5, 7-6 (7-3) win over the Serb to become the first from his country to move into the last eight.
 
 Chung, who tried to imitate Djokovic’s court coverage when growing up, swung his opponent around, using the court like a Grand Master. The former No. 1, coming back from a six-month break, wasn’t at his best, elbow suspect and his movement below par. Chung led 4-0 and 3-0 in the first two sets, which then became close contests, but Djokovic broke his young opponent in the first game of the third, raising hopes of a fightback.
 
 Chung responded by reeling off three games in a row to take a 3-1 lead before they pushed the set to tie-break. “I was honoured to play Novak, I am happy that he is back on the Tour,” Chung, who lost to the Serb here two years ago, said. “Even though we were 3-all in the tie-break, I was not worried. There were two more sets to play, even if I had lost the third set tie-break. I am younger than Novak, I can play for another two hours.”
 
 Djokovic wholeheartedly applauded Chung, saying, he was “a wall from the back of the court”.
 
 “Amazing performance. He was the better player on the court tonight. He deserved to win. Whenever he was in trouble, he came up with some unbelievable shots, passing shots,” the 30-year-old, who sent down nine double faults, said.
 
 
 
 A little earlier, Tennys Sandgren, ranked 97, the lowest ranked player in the draw, powered into the quarters with a 6-2, 4-6, 7-6 (7-4), 6-7 (7-9), 6-3 win over the No.5 seed Dominic Thiem.
 
 The American, who has made four previous trips to Melbourne, falling in the qualifiers, made the last eight on his main draw debut, only the second man to achieve that feat in 20 years, since Nicolas Escude in 1998. Sandgren, who fell in the first round in Pune, served out the roller-coaster clash which lasted three hours and 54 minutes.
 
 Sandgren, who’ll play Chung in the last eight, said: “I actually did, at the end of the match, think that this would be one of those moments where you wake up. The first three matches were more than I expected. This one was about as hard-fought as I’ve ever had a match before. I definitely had a real pinch-me moment. If I wake up now, I’m going to be real upset.”
 
 Defending champion   was masterful in putting out Hungary’s Marton Fucsovics 6-4, 7-6 (7-3), 6-2 to advance to the quarterfinals against No.19 seed  . The Czech put out Italian Fabio Fognini 6-1, 6-4, 6-4.
 
 Federer, playing his first day game this fortnight, his scheduling stirring a debate among players and in the media, said the ball shoots quicker through the air in the day time because it’s warmer. “You might get a bit more wind in the daytime. Usually in the evening it always slows down,” he said. “And then here in Australia, actually, between maybe 11:30 and 1:30 there is a tough spot in the sun when you’re serving. More so than anywhere else in the world.”
 
 Federer became the oldest man to reach the quarterfinals since Ken Rosewall (December 1977) sixteen years and 19 Major triumphs later.
 
