Madurai: The Madurai   has resolved to undertake a census of all schools, which are using unmanned level crossings falling under its jurisdiction, and ask them to find safer alternate routes. The decision comes in the wake of a school van with children, escaping from a major accident by a whisker two days ago at   unmanned level crossing near Palani in   district, where the driver after spotting an approaching train decided to take the risk of crossing. Shaken by the narrow escape, he fled from the spot leaving the children and the van near the unmanned level crossing itself.

 Addressing reporters here on Saturday, divisional railway manager,   said that she will be meeting school principals after the census, where she will be instructing them to take alternate routes instead of using the level crossings. If unavoidable, the school vehicle drivers should adhere to instructions of gate mitras posted at these unmanned level crossings, she said. The division is planning to wind up the census work in two weeks, Neenu added.
 
 With safety as paramount, railways has decided to eliminate all unmanned level crossings across the country and Madurai division too has been given the task of eliminating all 167 such crossings. “We are hopeful of completing the task by September 2018. Both division and construction departments have undertaken the works. We have posted gate mitras – a contract staff who will counsel vehicle users to exercise caution – at all unmanned level crossings till the elimination works are complete,” she said. 
 
 However, there are incidents where public do not listen to these gate mitras and decide to risk crossing the track. Fortunately, there were no accidents but there were near misses, which are a cause of worry. “People misjudge the speed of approaching trains and there is some physics involved in it. Train is a huge volume of moving object and risking to save couple of minutes is not really worth,” she said. 
 
 In Palani accident too, the gate mitra tried to stop the van driver, but he did not heed to the appeal, thus endangering the lives of many children. Schools should depute drivers who don’t indulge in reckless driving, DRM said. 
 
 In addition to posting gate mitras, the division has also undertaken extensive outreach programme among stakeholders, sensitising them about exercising caution while crossing unmanned level crossings. “We earnestly appeal to all road users to exercise caution at unmanned level crossing and heed to the counsel of gate mitras posted at these crossings,” she added. 
 
 
