Mumbai/New Delhi:   and lenders, which advanced funds on the basis of guarantees generated by rogue employees of the Delhi-based bank, are locked in a tussle over settling the dues, amid indications from the   and the government that the scam-hit public sector bank will have to bear the burden of the  .

 Bankers who had advanced funds based on this agreement say that they have received indications from the RBI that inter-bank guarantees will have to be honoured to avoid a systemic issue. Half-a-dozen banks are understood to have provided buyer’s credit to the   group on the basis of fraudulent letters of undertakings (LoUs), which are a form of a bank guarantee. According to the lending banks, the money was deposited in PNB’s nostro account (a foreign currency account where a bank holds customers’ money in another bank account).
 
 Banks have told the RBI that   transactions cannot be disowned. “In trade, all transactions take place through authenticated SWIFT. The overseas financier does all transactions based on the kind of exposure limit it has with the issuing bank. Buyers’ credit is, therefore, seen as a risk-free  ,” said a banker with a financing bank. Also, if the loans have been sold to multinational banks, there could be international implications with local regulators getting involved.
 
 While PNB managing director Sunil Mehta said that the would bank honour its commitment and regulatory directives, executives at the crisis-hit bank are questioning the claims being made by the other lenders, saying they did not carry out the required due diligence. “There are norms which have been specified by the RBI and there are SWIFT-related norms, which the banks did not follow,” said a PNB executive.
 
 Similarly, executives said that the norm is that the LoU for diamonds should be for 90 days, while at least one of the fraud guarantees was issued for 365 days. In addition, sources said simple guidelines like checking the bona fides of Nirav Modi’s outfits were not done. The rules prescribe that the LoU facility can only be availed of by only those who have an import licence.
 
 According to experts, localising the loss to PNB would help resolve the issue — both in terms of investigation and recovery, particularly where most of the counter-party banks are public sector banks (barring  ). A guarantor who fulfils the borrowers’ obligation is entitled to all the rights of the lender against the borrower through a right of subrogation.
 
 The banks are Allahabad Bank (Rs 2,000 crore), Axis Bank (Rs 2,200 crore),   (Rs 2,300 crore), both Bank of India and   at around Rs 1,000 crore. However, these lenders have then sold the loans to other banks. In a statement to the exchange, Axis Bank said that it has sold all the loans advanced against PNB guarantees without specifying its initial exposure.
 
 PNB, on its part, has written to 30 banks, informing them of the fraudulent activity in respect of LoUs issued to the Nirav Modi group and in respect of companies belonging to   promoted by   — Gili India and Nakshatra. Meanwhile, other banks whose core banking is not linked with the SWIFT messaging system are doing a reconciliation of payments with LoUs issued by Indian banks.
 
 
