CHANDIGARH: When another day in Sector 30-B started with contaminated   in the taps,   thought it would last only a while as usual. It surprised him when two buckets later, the supply remained muddy.

 For more than a year now, the sector has been receiving contaminated water every morning and coping with it without a complaint. But on Tuesday, it got so worse that they had to make desperate calls to a helpline. The officials who responded promised to send over an inspection team. People are still waiting, the team hasn’t come. Similar complaints have come in from several sectors and the civic authorities are yet to act upon any.
 
 Residents are shocked to see slow response to a priority task, keeping in view of health issues that the residents could face because of contaminated water.
 
  resident welfare association (RWA) president Colonel   said: “The supply of contaminated water to our area is so regular that almost 100% of the households have had to install water purifiers. The   makes of a false claim of giving people safe drinking water. It should come over to the affected sectors and count the number of water purifiers people have installed in the past two years since they started getting muddy water and making a noise about it.”
 
 People have now demanded water sampling and assessment. Foswac general secretary and Sector-35 RWA president J S Gogia said the resident welfare associations had raised the issue of contaminated water in various meetings for many summers without ever making an official complaint. “Low-pressure water supply is another big issue in various areas. Two days ago, it was the situation in my sector and we were unable to fill our overhead water tanks in the morning,” he said.
 
 Sector-48 Kendriya Vihar RWA president B S   said: “In 2001, when our housing society asked the Chandigarh Administration for permission to construct an underground reservoir for water storage, the officials concerned declined our request based on the plea that underground reservoirs were the main source of water contamination and they would correct the pressure of water supply so effectively that we wouldn’t require to store water below the surface.”
 
 In the dock
 
 As and when the Municipal Corporation of Chandigarh receives any complaint about water contamination, the department concerned takes direct and quick action on it.
 
 Manoj Bansal | MC chief engineer
 
 
