CHANDIGARH: Mount Carmel School, Sector 47, is accused of discriminating against around 12 students by not taking their names during the roll call and denying them magazines and school diary on the first of day of the new session on Wednesday. The allegations were made by their parents, who had some time back received a message that their children would not be allowed to continue in the school.

 Parents have alleged the school was targeting them as they had dragged it to the court over fee hike last year.
 
 On Wednesday, parents also received a message from the school calling them to meet the principal on Thursday at different timings. The SMS read, “It is requested that you don’t send your children to the school tomorrow as further course of events would be decided only after the discussion takes place tomorrow (Thursday).”
 
 One of the parents said, “My daughter was depressed when she returned from school. She is in Class VII and at this age she had to face humiliation at the hands of the school for no reason. She even asked her class teacher why her name was not in the list, but the teacher gave no answer. I did not send my son who is in kindergarten because I was not sure how the school would react as they had already expelled our wards through an SMS.”
 
 Another parent who received the SMS and is the president of Mount Carmel  , said, “Students were not given diaries and magazines. When my wife asked the reason, the teacher told her to meet the principal. My son told me that drawing sheets were given, but when he was writing his name on it, they were taken back.”
 
 Another parent who had lodged a DDR (daily diary report) when the school had sent the message terminating her ward’s admission was seen crying outside the school.
 
 Although Chandigarh Commission for Protection of Child Rights has so far failed to address the issue, parents again lodged a complaint with it. They also mentioned about the school not giving the complete result to them even as it had been directed to do so.
 
 Parents requested the commission to send one of their representatives along with them to the school on Thursday. The first meeting is scheduled at 8.30am.
 
 Parents, in their complaint, said when one of them was crying outside the school a security guard of the school clicked her photographs on his mobile phone. When asked about it, he answered he was directed by the school authorities to do so, parents alleged.
 
 The controversy broke out on March 19, when the school sent an SMS to the parents stating, “Considering all the relevant factors and your overall conduct during the year, for the betterment of the institution and peaceful environment of the school… The management has unanimously decided that your ward/s would not be allowed to continue in the school henceforth.”
 
 Taking cognizance of the complaint, the commission had issued summons to the school for March 27 and the principal’s statement was recorded. The next summons were for April 2, but did not take place due to Bharat Bandh.
 
 
