TRICHY: Consumers have made a beeline for   distribution centres in a desperate bid to book cylinders after rumour spread that supplies were running short due to ongoing strike by southern regional bulk LPG transport owner’s association. 

 The strike has forced concerned residents to make calls to offices of distributors of state owned oil marketing company (OMC) in  , seeking to book LPG cylinders as early as possible.
 
 Reports suggested the protest called against change in awarding tender to LPG tankers for transporting cooking gas have not made any significant breakthrough in the supply of LPG cylinders to the consumers here. Recently, the OMCs has brought about some changes such as inviting state-wise tenders to hire tankers for gas distribution, instead of floating zone-wise tenders. However, move did not go down well with the bulk LPG transport owners who are mostly concentrated in   district.
 
 The OMCs officials said that though the protest entered second day, that they were not facing any imminent crisis. They said the worry about the possible LPG scarcity was unfounded as the distributers have enough backup to meet the high demand.
 
 “We are getting 350 calls from consumers only for LPG booking. This is a big number when we compare this to the normal day figure which is 200. We have adequate reserves to supply cylinders for at least a week,” K A Subramanyam, a LPG   distributor at  , said.
 
 Same goes true for the commercial LPG cylinders distributors in Trichy who said that they are not facing any crisis at the moment. “For now, there is no necessity for people to panic. Our business is stable now, and might be affected only if the protest of tankers continues beyond a week,” said R Sekar, a manager in gas agency belonging to another OMC.
 
 Distributors in the city said that bookings from consumers requesting new LPG cylinder has shot up between 30-50 per cent due to the ongoing stir by LPG tankers. Apprehensive that the stock may run out of supply if the situation remains unchanged, distributors have asked the government to find an amicable solution to the present imbroglio.
 
 
