GURUGRAM: More than 150 shanties were gutted and at least 500 people displaced in a fire that broke out in a slum in Sector 49 on Saturday morning. 

  An air conditioner (AC) factory on Dabaripur Road was partly damaged in another fire later in the day. 
 
  No casualty was reported in the slum fire that broke out around 10am. 
 
  There were rumours of an old man and two children being injured but officials denied the claims. Slum-dwellers said the injured had been taken to a hospital but could not name them. 
 
  Officials and eyewitnesses said the fire started from a gas cylinder explosion in one of the shanties and spread to the others. Several gas cylinders in the slum subsequently exploded and spread the fire. Five fire tenders took two hours to douse the fire by 12.30pm. 
 
  Sub-divisional magistrate Sanjeev Singhla was among the firsts to reach the site. He spotted the fire when he was driving near Vatika Chowk. "I informed the fire department and drove to the spot. The fire has been contained and there was no loss of life," he said. 
 
  The shanties had been mostly occupied by migrant workers from West Bengal. When the fire broke out, a majority of them were working in nearby societies as maids, drivers and gardeners. 
 
  "There was much chaos in the morning. Some of the slum kids could not be found and their mothers were crying. A woman who had come back from work fainted at the sight of the fire," said Rashid (45) , a slum-dweller. The kids were later found to be safe. 
 
  The district administration has started the rehabilitation process and makeshift tents will be set up in the nearby government primary school for those displaced by the fire. Singhla added that arrangements had also been made for food and drinking water with the help of Red Cross Society. 
 
  All the affected people have been asked to submit their names and other details with the district administration. 
 
  The administration will direct cops to file a complaint against the man who rented the   land illegally to migrant workers. "As per information, he gets Rs 5 lakh per month as rent. This is not only illegal but also puts the lives of so many people at risk," said Singhla. 
 
  The fire at the AC factory on Darbaripur Road broke out at around 12.30pm. "The fire was from a short circuit and was immediately doused with the help of fire tenders," said Vishnu Parshad, SHO, Badshapur police station. He said that the factory owner had not submitted a report on the damages yet. 
 
 
