MUMBAI: For first-year junior   aspirants this year, on offer are 10,000 more seats for the upcoming academic session. 

 But, even with the over 3 lakh seats, the competition at top junior colleges will remain fierce as the new seats have been added mostly at lesser sought-after or new colleges. Out of the total seats available, admission to 1.63 lakh seats will be done though the centralized online process. 
 
 
  
 
 For the remaining 1.37 lakh seats that are reserved under the in-house, management and minority quotas, registrations will be done online, but the seats will be filled at the college level. 
 
 This year, 14 new colleges have received permissions to start junior colleges. Of these, only four are in Mumbai—two in the western suburbs and two in the central suburbs. 
 
 Some of the colleges are in Thane, Kalyan and Panvel. Adding to the pool of seats are also junior colleges that have received permissions to start new divisions. Among the streams, the highest increase in number of seats is in commerce—from 1.6 lakh to 1.65 lakh. 
 
 The other streams—arts, science and MCVC—saw a marginal rise. The increased number of seats are, however, not expected to have an impact on cut-offs at sought-after colleges. 
 
 “The permissions have been mostly given to schools to extend to junior colleges or add divisions. The additions have not happened at popular colleges. The demand continues to be for a select few colleges,” said an education department official. 
 
 Last year, more than 55,000 seats out of the 2.92 lakh remained vacant after several online admission rounds. “Year on year, there is a rise in number of vacancies as well as seats. 
 
 Due to this, several aided seats remain vacant and teachers are declared surplus. The permissions for new divisions are on unaided basis, which are exAt present, students can fill up part I of their admission forms online using the user ID and password they receive from their schools. The students, however, will have to wait longer to decide on the junior colleges as the education department is yet to upload the previous year’s cut-offs on the admission portal. 
 
 Students will be allowed fill up their choice of colleges after the announcement of SSC results early next month. pensive,” said the official. At most top colleges, the intake capacity has been stagnant for a few years. “We do not intend to increase the number of students we take to maintain standards and provide quality education in the infrastructure we have,” said  , principal, Jai Hind, Churchgate. 
 
 On Tuesday, the college hosted a workshop for over 600 parents and students to help understand the online process. 
 
