TRICHY: The idol wing CID police on Friday confirmed that the antique panchaloha statues of king   and his wife Logamadevi had indeed gone missing from the Big Temple in Thanjavur. They have also started investigations to bring back the statues, worth Rs 100 crore, from the private museum in   where they were traced to. 

 The wing led by inspector general (IG) of police A G   lodged a complaint with the Thanjavur west police station on Friday in this regard. It alleged that the two statues, donated by former king Poigai Naadu Kizhavan Aadhithan Suriyanagiya Thennavan Moovenda Velaan to Raja Raja Chola during the construction of the temple 1,000 years ago, were missing. 
 
 The Idol wing has valued the statue of Raja Raja chola at Rs 60 crore and that of Logamadevi at Rs 40 crore according to their international market value. Thanjavur district superintendent of police T Senthilkumar, who also accompanied the team to the temple, told reporters that the statues could have been stolen 50 years ago. 
 
 It may be recalled that former minister for Hindu religious and charitable endowment (HR&CE) department, V V Swaminathan, had filed a case in Madras high court about the two missing statues but the court had dismissed his plea to trace the statues and bring them back to Tamil Nadu in November 2016. 
 
 That the two invaluable statues — believed to have been made of gold and other metals — had gone missing became known to the idol wing only a couple of months ago from the case filed by the former minister. Since then the team had been inspecting several areas of the temple before confirming the theft of the statues. 
 
 The IG said that their investigation confirmed that the statues were being kept in the museum run by the   foundation at Ahmedabad in Gujarat. “Each statue measures 74 cms in height. The plaque in the temple clearly mentions the measurements of the statues. We will soon visit Gujarat,” Pon Manickavel told TOI. 
 
 In fact, even before minister Swaminathan raised the matter, the issue had figured in a series of articles by a writer a few years ago. The state government had formed a committee with the former director of department of archeology, Dr  , as one of its members to bring back the statue from Gujarat. Idol wing IG recalled the incident of the committee visiting the museum and returning empty-handed due to its inability to confirm that the statues were the ones missing. He said that if this was true, the committee members may also be brought under the ambit of the investigation.
 
 
