  :   Amarinder Singh on Tuesdy stated that any decision regarding forging an alliance with other political parties for the 2019 Lok Sabha elecions in line with the one formed in Uttar Pradesh would be taken by the party high command. He also hinted at cabinet expansion, saying the state would soon have a new sports policy and a sports minister. 

 CM   stated this here on Tuesday while talking to media persons on the sidelines of an entrepreneurship and innovation convention held at   in Patiala.
 
 He also promised a thorough investigation and action against anyone indulging in illegal mining. He said he had already issued stringent directives to police and the dministrative departments concerned to crack down against all such activities. Illegal miners would soon be put behind bars, he said.
 
 Amarinder, however, refused to comment on the report submitted by the special task force (STF) on drugs in the high court claiming that it was a matter between the court and the STF.
 
 Later, he CM presided over a meeting of the newly-elected councillors of the Patiala municipal corporation during which he announced a grant of Rs 1 crore to ensure availability of clean potable water to the residents. He said the money would be spent on installing new tube wells in the city.
 
 The amount is in addition to the Rs 32 crore already sanctioned for the Patiala civic body for various development works, he said. Earlier, the CM had also announced a grant of Rs 100 crore for various development projects in the city.
 
 He also reviewed the progress of various ongoing projects in Patiala. He said water woes of the city residents would soon come to an end with the launch of the Rs 782 crore canal-based drinking water project which was being simultaneously launched in four corporations of Patiala, Amritsar, Ludhiana and Jalandhar. He also hailed Patiala mayor Sanjeev Bittu for starting new developmental projects in the city and assured him all support.
 
 Earlier, Amarinder inaugurated the two-day convention and exhibition on rural entrepreneurship and innovation organized by the industries department in collaboration with the PHD chamber. 
 
 
