Ten years ago, Goa became aware of a shocking crime committed on   beach. On February 18, 2008, the partially-clad corpse of British teenager   was discovered face-down in the shallow surf. The 15-year-old had been seen nearby late the previous night, and had allegedly been intoxicated. Very quickly, the Goa police labelled the incident an accidental drowning. It was only when the dead girl’s mother forced a second autopsy that it became clear the young visitor had been raped, badly beatenher body bore 52 woundsand then murdered on the sands.

 In a pattern that plays out in India with monotonous regularity, the horrific nature of the crimes against   Keeling were exponentially compounded by the disgraceful responses by both, officialdom and civil society. Much innuendo was circulated about the victim, and her family. Not content with the proven dishonesty of its initial inquiries, the state police proceeded to botch every other aspect of the case as well. This week, the high court of Bombay at Goa heard final arguments on a CBI petition challenging the 2016 acquittal of two men who were accused of the crime. Whatever the outcome of that case, it’s clear justice has not been served.
 
 Violence against women is a historic global phenomenon, but making reprehensible excuses for it has become a contemporary Indian speciality that draws attention across the globe. At this moment, there is huge international revulsion about what is happening at Kathua in Jammu and Kashmir, where a gang of local menincluding four police officerskidnapped, drugged, battered, raped and brutally murdered an eight-year-old girl belonging to a family of nomads. According to the chargesheet filed earlier this week, the abduction and sexual assault was calculated to “dislodge” the girl’s family from the village they were residing in.
 
 Just like the   case, the aftermath of this terrible incident has been even more abhorrent, while also nakedly communal. The police tried to destroy evidence. A mob of lawyers attempted to prevent charges from being filed, and the judge only accepted the chargesheet after being pressured by the high court. Defiant protestsoften wielding the national flagcontinue to roil Kathua, sometimes joined by senior state ministers calling for the release of the accused. This atrocious behaviour is not restricted to the ruling coalition. There is deafening silence from the opposition, as well as civil society organisations.
 
 Just over five years ago, another sickening crime seemed to have jolted the country to real change. In Delhi in December 2012, the 23-year-old now known as ‘Nirbhaya’ and her friend, got into an off-duty charter bus when they were offered a ride home by its occupants. It was a trap. Both the innocents were beaten nearly to death, and the young woman was barbarically raped and also literally eviscerated. She died a few days later, amid a wave of angry protests that eventually triggered a judicial commission and some new laws that have criminalised a wide range of harassment against women, including voyeurism and stalking.
 
 But the legal system only holds good as the people who uphold it, as well as the society it serves. It has been 10 long years, and the results for Scarlett and her bereaved family add up to zero. What is more, as we seen in Kathua, laws alone are no recourse when the entire administrative machinery, plus all of the social framework as well as the political hierarchy opts to abdicate responsibility. 
 
 This is not just a local issue, whether in Goa or Jammu. Instead it is a full-blown constitutional crisis, with the future of Indian democracy at stake.
 
 The writer is a photographer and widely-published columnist. Views expressed are personal. 
 
 
