LUDHIANA: Taking a jibe at   government and leaders, the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Badal said here on Wednesday that local bodies and tourism minister Navjot Singh   had insulted ‘Virasat-e-Khalsa’ by calling them white elephants. Calling Sidhu a monkey, Badal claimed Sidhu had insulted Sikh memorials by calling them white elephants.

 Calling Sidhu a monkey, Badal claimed, "Ehna da bandar jeha ek mantri hai, O ki kehnda , ki virasat e khalsa chitta hathi hai" (They (Congress) have a monkey like minister Navjot sidhu who says Virasat e Khalsa is a white elephant)
 
 Junior Badal — who was addressing a rally at Mullanpur — also took jibes at other Congress leaders, and even local Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLA HS Phoolka. He said the Congress government was befooling Punjabis by making excuses of an empty treasury to escape delivering on its promises, even though it had increased revenue by taxing people and hiking power tariff.
 
 “The revenue income has increased from the sale of liquor and registries to Rs 5,500 crore and Rs 3,000 crore respectively. Power rates for domestic consumers have been increased by 12%. It is estimated that the government would earn more than earlier on VAT, sales tax, and GST, but the government was still denying social welfare benefits to people. The government had already reneged on providing loan waiver to farmers after a sham function in Mansa, and had also failed to provide any jobs under the ‘Ghar Ghar Naukri’ scheme. The government is even denying ‘atta daal’, old age pension and ‘shagun’ scheme benefits to people for the past one year,” he added.
 
 Asking residents to compare this discrimination being meted out to them, with the functioning of the SAD-BJP government led by Parkash Singh Badal, the SAD president said the previous government delivered on each and every promise. “I promised to make the state power surplus. Congressmen claimed I was lying. But I succeeded in this task after an investment of Rs 50,000 crore. Similarly Rs 30,000 crore were spent on the road network in   during SAD-BJP tenure to fulfil our promise of linking all towns and cities with four-lane highways,” he added.
 
 Speaking about Mullanpur Dakha constituency, Badal said former legislator Manpreet Singh Ayali’s work in the area was now being emulated by others. “Ayali started a project to clean village ponds, using scientific techniques. The model was replicated by the government in other areas of the state. The parks made by Ayali, along with open gyms and other facilities, are also unique, and have made a big change in the life of people of this area. I am confident people will compare all this work with the total lack of any activity by the Congress government in the forthcoming elections,” he added.
 
 Former minister Bikram Singh Majithia, who accompanied him, also took potshots at Congress leaders. “The state treasury did not get empty when finance minister Manpreet Badal spent Rs 50 lakh to spruce up his office. The treasury did not get empty while making around 25 political appointments. But it is definitely empty when old age pension or Shagun or scholarships have to be given to beneficiaries,” he said.
 
 Majithia also asked Ludhiana MP   Bittu to say he could not find anyone needier than his family for an out-of-turn job of deputy superintendent of police (DSP). He said Bittu should also disclose that all criteria, including age and academic qualifications, were set aside to give this job to his brother. Others who spoke on the occasion included Maheshinder Singh Grewal, Sharanjit Singh Dhillon, Manpreet Singh Ayali, Ranjit Singh Talwandi, and S Kler.
 
 
