Chennai: Despite developers being asked to register with the Tamil Nadu Real Estate Regulatory Authority (TNRERA) to facilitate loans for homebuyers, discrepancies in the number of planning permissions issued and projects registered remain. Taking note of this mismatch, the TNRERA has decided to seek the assistance of public sector banks to ensure that developers fall in line.

 “If banks insist on the TNRERA registration number before providing loans to prospective buyers, the builder would be left with little option except to register his project with the authority. We are planning to write to the concerned banks,” a TNRERA official told TOI.
 
 This comes in the wake of the disparity between the volume of planning permissions and number of housing projects registered with the realty regulator. Nearly 290 housing projects have been registered with the TNRERA after it came into effect in Tamil Nadu on June 22 last year. However, this is not in sync with the number of planning permissions, said officials. 
 
 “We have already issued around 1000 notices to developers who have obtained planning permits for three years between 2015 and 2017 with the Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA) and two years with the Directorate of Town and Country Planning (DTCP). The next move is to approach the banks asking them to insist on TNRERA registrations,” the official added.
 
 Upcoming housing projects above eight units and 5000 square feet come under the purview of the real estate act, which should be registered with the TNRERA.
 
  Such projects cannot be marketed without the RERA registration numbers. Official sources said that housing projects below these parameters are not covered by the act. “We have also clarified with the banks that such projects need not be registered with the TNRERA,” an official said.
 
 Industry sources said that more than 75% of homebuyers in the Chennai real estate market avail home loans. A Shankar, national director, strategic consulting, JLL, said that a recent study has found that 85% of buyers in the income group of below Rs 6 lakh per annum and 70% home buyers above this salary bracket take loans for buying residential properties.
 
  “The Maharashtra Real Estate Regulatory Authority carried out a similar initiative to approach banks for compliance,” he added.
 
 
