MUMBAI: Retired bureaucrats   and  , both Dalits, joined the   in the presence of party president   in New Delhi on Friday. The development comes after the BJP rush of recent years among politicians. As for government servants with political ambitions, it is after a long drought that the Congress is seeing former officials joining its ranks.

 State Congress president Ashok Chavan said Khobragde and Gajbhiye’s entry in the Congress, particularly in view of the ensuing Lok Sabha and assembly elections, will strengthen the   base of the party in Vidarbha. “Both Khobragade and Gajbhiye have social commitment, their entry will strengthen the Congress party,” Chavan said.
 
 After retiring from the IAS, Khobragade joined the RPI led by Ramdas Athavale. 
 
 During the 2014 Lok Sabha election, Khobragade sought to contest from Chandrapur but was not nominated. 
 
 A 1984 batch officer, Khobragade’s career was marked by a series of controversies. He took on his superiors on several occasions. He held many key assignments, including general manager of BEST, FDA commissioner, managing director of Mhada and the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation, and collector of Mumbai.
 
 Gajbhiye, a product of the prestigious Regional Engineering College, Nagpur, now a National Institute of Technology, took voluntary retirement in January 2010, after he was sidelined. An IAS officer of the 1987 batch, Gajbhiye was additional municipal commissioner in the BMC. He was shifted to the social justice department as secretary and, feeling it to be a demotion, he quit. After opting for VRS, Gajbhiye joined a leading real estate developer and the Mayawati-led BSP, unsuccessfully contesting the 2014 assembly polls from Nagpur (North).
 
 A senior Congress politician said both Khobragade and Gajbhiye had political ambitions. “They will insist on nomination for Lok Sabha or assembly; the high command will decide their fate,” he said.
 
 In the past, too, many   entered politics, but very few succeeded. Shrinivas Patil joined the NCP in 1999 and successfully contested the general election from Karad in 1999 against senior Congress leader Prithviraj Chavan. Today, he is Sikkim governor. 
 
 From the IPS, former city police commissioner Satya Pal Singh quit and successfully contested the 2014 Lok Sabha polls. He is Union MoS for HRD. High-profile bureaucrat T Chandrashekhar joined a political party floated by Telugu film star Chiranjivi but did not succeed.
 
 
