Actor   and stand-up comedian   are busy shooting for the movie Super Jasoos in Kanpur these days. The film, that also stars veteran actress  , is being directed by Kanpur-born Israar Ahmed. During a day-long shooting schedule in the city, both the actors shot a number of scenes in a bungalow and a resort in the   area and at a city hotel.
Though the story of the film has no Kanpur connection, the director of the film wanted to shoot in his hometown. "Since the time I directed the Nawazuddin Siddiqui-starrer Lateef, I have wanted to come to Kanpur to shoot a film. I was born and brought up in Kanpur and this is what attracts me to this city. Main chahta toh yeh film Lucknow mein bhi shoot kar sakta tha par mujhe laga ki main jis sheher mein paida hua hoon usko bade parde par dikhana toh banta hai," says Israar.
 He adds, , “Also, I feel that filmmakers from Bollywood have already explored every corner of Lucknow and Varanasi in their films. Aise main sabse bada challenge mere samne yeh tha ki main apni film mein nayapan kahan se lata. Being a local, I had lot of advantages too. There were lots of my friends in the city who helped me in finding the perfect shooting locations. Also, with this shoot in Kanpur, I got an opportunity of meeting all my buddies and family members. Haan ghar ka bana khaana bhi bahut dino baad naseeb ho gaya isi bahaane,.
 Happy at shooting in Kanpur, actor Rajpal Yadav says, "Kanpur se bahut purana rishta hai mera. I had come to Kanpur during the Lok Sabha elections in 2014. Now I am in Kanpur for the shoot and I am really enjoying it. We shot some sequences at a huge beautiful bungalow in Jajmau and the owners of that bungalow were so courteous that they offered the entire cast and crew homemade samosas and aloo ke papad. Aisa kisi aur city mein dekhne ko jaldi nahi milta hai. This is what makes Kanpur different from other cities."
 "I have been to Kanpur a number of times before. I used to come to Kanpur for my performances and during that time I realised that the life of   is full of humour. Aap do Kanpurites ko baat karte hue suniye toh aap ko lagega ki jaise aap koi comedy show dekh rahe hain. The language of Kanpur has its own style and it is full of humour," said Sunil.
 "Zeenat ji is making a comeback with this movie and she has very strong character in the movie. Apart from her, actors Aryan Vaid, Shakti Kapoor and   are also playing strong characters in the film," says, Israar Ahmed.
 
  
  Sunil Pal and Rajpal Yadav shooting a scene at a hotel in Kanpur (BCCL/ AS Rathor)
 
 
 
  
  Sunil Pal and Rajpal Yadav shooting a scene in Kanpur (BCCL/ AS Rathor)
 
