CHANDIGARH: Stating that children, who aspire for better education, cannot be left to the mercy of “unscrupulous institution(s)” by permitting them to take tuition   in advance, District Consumer Disputes Redressel   has directed a Chandigarh-based private school to refund fees and pay compensation to a Mohali-based resident.

 The complainant   stated that she took admission in the   in Sector 44 Chandigarh in Class XI in commerce stream for the session 2014-15 and paid an amount of Rs 50,000 as advance fee for the whole year. She alleged that a week after she started attending classes at the school, the authorities started pressurising her to take coaching at a private institute of their choice whereas she was interested only in self-study. 
 
 She stated that she brought the matter to the notice of her father, who in turn took the matter with the school administrator, but to no avail. After being pressurised repeatedly, the complainant pulled herself out of the school on July 10, 2015, which caused mental and physical harassment to her. It was stated that she also requested the school to refund the school fee charged in advance for the entire year, but they did not pay any heed.
 
 In their written reply the school authorities stated Poonam paid advance fee of Rs 50,000 but did not pay the balance fee of Rs 8400. It was also stated that the complainant concealed the fact that the fees was non-refundable as per the receipt. It was further stated that the school has nothing to do with any private institute and it is well equipped with well trained professionals, experts, faculty and facilities to provide better education and that the allegation made by the complainant is baseless. The school authorities stated that a number of calls were made to the complainant to attend the classes but the latter failed to attend any class.
 
 It was also denied that the complainant was forced to join coaching classes against her will. The authorities added that no request for refund of the money paid in relation to admission was made by the complainant or her father. It was also stated that the representation dated July 10, 2014 is false and fabricated document produced by the complainant to get undue favour. Forum after hearing both sides stated that it is unfortunate that instead of relying upon teaching methodology by the teaching staff of the school, the school authorities indulged in such unfair means to earn and share money in connivance with outside private tutorials by sending their pupils to them. 
 
 The school took advance money of Rs 50,000 for the entire year, but without providing any professional service to the complainant and claimed the amount as non-refundable, though admittedly the complainant did not attend the classes even for a few days. This unethical practice on the part of the school cannot be permissible under the law of the land, the forum stated. 
 
 “Keeping in consideration the above facts , the school is found to have indulged into unfair practice,” forum held. They then asked the school to refund Rs 50,000 along with interest at 12% per annum from July 8, 2014 till realisation. They were also asked to give compensatory cost of Rs 10,000 and litigation cost of Rs 5000.
 
 
