LUDHIANA: While the already proposed   projects are yet to take off, the civic officials are planning to consult Ludhiana residents again seeking suggestions for the new projects to be included under the mission. The officials are planning to organize public meetings next month, but before that they will discuss the projects with local MLAs and MP. The suggestions will be taken for area-based development component of the Smart City mission. 

 Already there are 24 projects in the list out of which a project regarding installation of solar panels has kicked off while rest of the projects are in the pipeline. The LED street lights will be the second project that will soon be commissioned. However rest of the projects are either at tendering stage or are awaiting approval from the technical teams. The civic officials are waiting for the approval for carcass plant as wel. 
 
 Requesting anonymity, one of the MC officials claimed that last month a meeting of board of directors for Smart City was held in Chandigarh where they were told to start contacting people for their suggestions regarding new projects. As a result they have decided to begin this exercise. He added that they would contact the public with the help of city-based NGOs and residents welfare associations. 
 
 Municipal commissioner-cum-chief executive officer of the Smart City mission   said that they would start the process for new projects under the Smart City mission and since idea was to involve public before preparing any kind of project, they would also organize meetings with public representatives and other associations. 
 
 Recently tenders for the projects like surface water supply in the ABD area, development of   as smart road and replacement of old sewerage and water supply lines have been floated by the civic body. These projects are likely to bring respite to the residents of Sarabha Nagar, Malhar Road and adjoining areas from the problems of water logging, water contamination and choking of sewerage. Apart from this, Malhar Road will also undergo complete transformation. 
 
 The civic officials are also planning to prepare detail projects reports (DPRs) for purchasing static compactors and installing smart bins. For both projects, the MC officials require huge funds because private company A2Z waste management will not spend money on the same and the MC itself is unable to do the same due to scarcity of funds. 
 
 
