PATNA: Bright sunshine during the daytime notwithstanding, severe cold conditions continued to grip most parts of the state on Tuesday.

 The   ( ) stuck to its warning issued on Monday for ‘ground frost conditions’ at isolated places in the state on Wednesday. ‘Ground frost conditions’ refer to the formation of ice on the ground, objects and trees as a result of the temperature on their surface plummeting below the freezing point of water. 
 
 The weatherman also issued a fresh warning for ‘cold wave’ and ‘cold day’ conditions besides dense fog in the night hours for the next three days. 
 
 Patna Meteorological Centre’s meteorologist Sandeep   said on Tuesday the weather conditions in the state were not expected to change over the next four-five days.
 
 Sources attributed the strong north-westerly winds to sharp mercury dip after the sunset and the wind chill factor, which together were neutralising the impact of sunny day.
 
 “The mercury starts plummeting instantly after the sunset and the rate of drop is quite fast owing to the cold north-westerly winds and clear skies. For instance, the maximum temperature of 17-20 degrees C around noon gradually plunges to as low as 4 to 5 degrees C by the early morning at many places,” explained Kumar.
 
 The IMD’s all-India weather bulletin on Tuesday said the minimum temperatures was below 3.1 degrees C to 5 degrees C below normal at many places in   on the day. The lowest minimum temperature in the state was recorded at Bhagalpur where it was 4 degrees C in the morning. The morning reading at Patna was 5.5 degrees C, 0.1 degree C lower than Monday.
 
 The cold north-westerly winds have also created the ‘wind chill’ factor in the region, which adds to the discomfort of people. ‘Wind chill conditions’ are said to prevail on a wintry day when the wind speed and the level of moisture in the atmosphere are quite high. 
 
 The relative humidity was 100%, while the north-westerly were blowing at an average speed of 6 to 12kmph in Patna on Tuesday evening.
 
 According to the IMD’s bulletin, the surface winds over the Indo-   have strengthened. As a result, the duration and intensity of fog over the region have reduced.
 
 
