PATNA: Eight more flights will operate from Patna, in addition to the 38 existing flights, from March 25 when the city’s Jayaprakash Narayan International (JPNI) airport will be thrown open for 24X7 operations. 

 As per the summer schedule approved by   ( ) and released on Monday night,   will operate 19 flights, GoAir ten flights, Jet   eight flights,   five and   will operate four flights to and from Patna.
 
 The new flights will include an Indore-Patna-Indore flight of IndiGo from July 1, which will land at Patna at 5.55pm and take off for for Indore at 6.25pm. 
 
 IndiGo will introduce one more flight during the summer from March 25 to June 30 on the Kolkata-Patna-Lucknow sector. The flight will land at Patna at 5.30pm and take off at 6.05pm for Lucknow.
 
 GoAir will operate a Hyderabad-Patna-Hyderabad flight from March 25 till April 15. The flight will land at Patna at 10.15am and depart at 10.45am.
 
 As for the flights operating in late night, Jet Airways will operate a direct flight on the Pune-Patna-Pune route from March 25, whereas IndiGo will operate three flights in night from April 30.
 
 The IndiGo’s night flights will include Bengaluru-Patna-Bengaluru flight, which will land at Patna at 12.05am and take off at 3.55am. Another IndiGo flight will operate on the Hyderabad-Patna-Hyderabad sector, which will land at Patna at 1.25am and depart at 1.55am. The Indigo’s third night flight will operate on the Chennai-Kolkata-Patna-Kolkata-Chennai route. It will land at Patna at 12.25am and take off at 5.30am.
 
  executives and travel operators said flyers had already started booking seats in the flights that are proposed to operate late in night. “We are happy with the response. Quite a few bookings for the Patna-Pune flight on March 25 apart, we are also getting inquiries for the night flights,” said a Jet Airways executive.
 
 A city-based travel agent said there were many takers for seats in the direct flights as flyers would not have to waste time waiting for connecting flights from Delhi and Mumbai. The direct flight fares are lower than those for the journey involving two flights. 
 
 According to Patna airport director R S Lahauria, flights operating late in night are always preferred by businessmen and other frequent flyers as they can conveniently attend meetings or family events and take a late night flight back home. “The authorities felt the need for 24X7 operations at the Patna airport because of the heavy rush of flyers to and from Patna. As per a recent report, the passenger count at Patna crossed 21.12 lakh in 2016-17,” Lahauria said.
 
 
