For the devout, the holy month of   is all about fasting and prayers but for the foodies of   though, it is the time to indulge in their love for the season’s delicacy — 
 ! Irrespective of age, caste and creed, city folk look forward to being invited to   parties so they can gorge on the lip-smacking wheat and pounded meat preparation that has become synonymous with Ramzan. 
 
  “Every year, I eagerly wait for Ramzan just for the haleem. On weekdays, I head to the stall that is set up at Siripuram every evening along with my friends without fail. But on weekends I head out with my family to sample 
 ,” reveals Harish Idnani, a 32- year-old businessman, adding, “Chicken 
 , despite being an unpopular choice, is my favourite."
 
  For 17-year-old student Aftab Khan however, 
 is worth only when made by his ‘ammi’. He says, “I absolutely love the flavour of the 
 my 
 makes. She makes the best 
 in the world. But, I am also looking forward to try haleem at stalls this year.” 
  
  If given the chance, 23-year-old student, Qamar Farhana Hanfi would have 
 all year long, she says. “It’s hard to explain why I like 
 . I just do and would love to eat 
 everyday. But the fact that it is traditionally made only during Ramzan makes it extra special. At our home, the mashed mutton is cooked for over 6 hours which brings out the juice. The spices added in are the cherry on top,” she says.
  
  Abhishek Dutta and Srinivas Reddy, businessmen from the city, too crave for the classic Hyderabadi 
 . “I prefer the traditional Hyderabadi 
 as there is nothing quite like it. However, Vizag's 
 is slowly catching up and I love sampling the delicacy at various restaurants during the month," says Abhishek adding, "But I long to have the 
 from   or   in Hyderabad. This year, I would also like to sample the   haleem and keema kaleji that they make during this month." 
  
  Srinivas Reddy too echoes a similar sentiment, saying, "Though the 
 we get here is good too, the Hyderabadi 
 wins any day. I love the taste of spices and minced meat topped with fried onions and lime juice. The onions and dash of lime are truly the best part for me!"
  
  Farahat Khan, a 21-year-old student, disagrees though. "While most people like Hyderabadi 
 , I don't because most shops make it using machine-grinded meat. The homemade haleem, cooked painstakingly in a pot where the meat is grinded by hand so that the juices mix well, is the best any day," she says.
  
  Then, there are many like 21-year-old Mokshith Paratamsetti, for whom the Irani 
 is the real deal. "I prefer the Irani 
 over Hyderabadi one as it's less spicy. It's my all-time favourite dish to indulge in hands down. On most days, the 
 wagon that's open all round the year in Vizag, is where I head to religiously. Always there, either by the Beach Road or Jagadamba, this haleem goes best with the soothing sea breeze and classic retro songs," he says with a smile. 
  
  However, what makes Ramzan special isn't just the 
 , but the sense of sharing that defines Iftar gatherings. "The best part of the evening feast is sharing the iftar. We start out with few dishes and end up with more by the time everyone pitches in. While lemonade and 
 (broth made with 
  and 
 ) is common in most households, what I like best during Ramzan apart from the 
 are the 
 , 
 , 
 , fruit salad and the freshly-made batch of chilled sharbat to go along with it all," sums up Farhat.
 
  
 
 
