BENGALURU: At a time when rampant construction and urbanization are taking a toll on the state’s green cover, here is some good news. 

 According to the   unveiled by Union environment ministry, Karnataka ranks second among states which have witnessed a   and   — it has added 1,100 sqkm between 2015 and 2017. This despite the state witnessing consecutive years of drought. 
 
 Andhra Pradesh, with 2,141 sqkm increase in total forest and tree cover, tops the list, and Kerala stands third with an increase of 1043 sqkm, according to the biennial report.
 
 What is more significant is that Karnataka has registered a   in 2017 compared to the India State of Forest Report of 2015. 
 
 “This is the result of general welfare and regulatory initiatives taken by the state forest department. The threefold increase in green cover in largely due to the open forest segment because of increased plantation activities taken up in private lands,” said Brijesh Kumar Dikshit, additional principal chief conservator of forests, forest resource management.
 
 As per the 2015 assessment, the forest area had increased by 289 sqkm and the state stood at the 10th position. The forest cover matrix is divided into very dense forest, moderately dense forest, open forest, scrub forest and non forest.
 
 A senior forest officer said a dense forest has a tree canopy density of over 70 per cent, dense forest of over 40 per cent and open forest of only 10 per cent and more.
 
 The survey, a long-drawn process, is carried out using data provided by a  . The state is divided into two regions: Malnad, which comprises the Western Ghats, and the Maidan area, which constitutes of the Deccan Plateau.
 
 The state has 38,284 sqm of forest area, which is 19.96 per cent of its geographical area. Karnataka had a tree cover in 5,552 sqm outside the forest area, which was 3 per cent of the geographical area of 1,91,791 sqkm. Parts of Mysuru, Ballari, Chamarajanagar, Dakshina Kannada, Chikamagaluru and Kodagu have rich forest cover. 
 
 
