KOLKATA: The first heart transplant in eastern India on Monday has hinted at the possibility of extending the time-gap between harvesting the organ from adonor and transplanting it in a recipient’s body. Even though the time limit accepted internationally is four hours, the Kolkata recipient received a new heart almost five-and-a-half hours after it had been extracted from the donor’s body in Bengaluru. Doctors see in this a possibility of setting a new heart transplant protocol, maybe even the exciting possibility of taking out the ‘big-city only’ tag away from the complex procedure.

  
  
 
 The surgeons who conducted the procedure — also a logistical challenge, which required coordination between hospitals and health authorities of three cities — felt this could be a significant finding and lead to heart transplants in remote corners, where it is often logistically near-impossible to deliver a heart within four hours.
 
 “The transplant happened after nearly five-and-a-half hours of extraction, which is a first,” said K R Balakrishnan, director of cardiac sciences at   Hospital Malar in Chennai, who led the five-member surgical team. “It has proved that the time limit can be pushed. How far the transit time can be stretched will be known better if we do more transplants like this. But, from this transplant, we guess it could be stretched to even seven hours,”   added. The harvesting surgery concluded at Bengaluru around 6am. The transplant procedure began in Kolkata at11.30am.
 
 He explained that the fourhour time limit could not be stuck to due to the complex logistics involved and the distance that the organ had to travel. “We harvested the organ from a hospital in Bengaluru and flew it to Kolkata. The distance between the Bengaluru hospital to the city airport was 40km. The flight time was about two hours. The green corridor in Kolkata reduced the transit time but the four-hour limit was still crossed,” Balakrishnan said.
 
 The surgical team — which also had  , chief anaesthetist at Fortis Hospital, Chennai, K M Mandana, director of cardio-thoracic and vascular surgery at Fortis Hospital Kolkata and Saikat Bandopadhyay, senior consultant and cardiac anaesthesiologist at Fortis Kolkata — kept its fingers crossed till the heart started beating inside the recipient’s body. “It was a tense few moments, and we were ready with a pacemaker in case the heart refused to function immediately. But to our relief and joy, it started beating on its own. This indicates that the transit time can be extended,”   said. The doctors mentioned that it helped that the donated organ was young and healthy.
 
 Nearly 35,000 patients in Bengal need a transplant, said Fortis director of cardio-thoracic surgery  . “It’s a shame we don’t have donors in this part of the country, despite huge demand. Chennai has two heart donations every day. We need awareness about transplants,” he said.
 
 
