MUMBAI: The   in   have busted a well-oiled   from Bangladesh who flew into the city on tourist visa and targeted households in Mira-Bhayander and Vasai-Virar. The five arrested youths used a   they bought here last year and allegedly had agents to send the loot to Bangladesh.

 In the past, police in Mumbai region have arrested high-flying thieves and robbers from UP, Andhra and Delhi who would arrive and return home with the loot by air. 
 
 The kingpin of the Bangladeshi gang, Mohammed Havaldar (32), has been staying in Kashimira since 2015, entering the city on a tourist visa. 
  
 
 In the latest case that led to their arrest, the gang targeted a first-floor flat in Kashimira in the early hours of March 22. Police said three members entered the flat by breaking the iron grilles of a window around 2.30 am when Gokul Wagh and his family were asleep. As they woke up, the trio threatened and tied up the four-member family, including a senior citizen, with cloths and took away cash, valuables and electronic gadgets totally worth nearly Rs 9 lakh. Police said two others were waiting in the car outside the four-storey building, in which the gang escaped with the loot.
 
 Police sources said the accused—Havaldar (32), Bappi Shaikh (27), Mohammed Shaikh (31), Mohammed Ali (28) and Lukman Mirya (23)—stayed on rent in Neelkamal Naka, Kashigaon of Mira Road. 
 
 While Havaldar, Mirya and Bappi used to fly to Mumbai or Kolkata from Dhaka on  , the other two would enter the country illegally, reach Kolkata and travel to Mumbai by train.
 
 As part of the investigation, crime branch sleuths examined footages of CCTV camera near Chena bridge on Ghodbunder Road and zeroed in on a Chevrolet car that was spotted in the locality frequently. The car was traced to a roadside eatery owner in Naigaon, who told police that he had sold it a year ago. The investigators then started searching for the car, and intercepted the vehicle on Wednesday when it was headed from Vasai to the Versova creek bridge. During questioning, the men allegedly confessed to committing the robbery. Police learnt that the men had tried to rob the house on March 17.
 
 Police suspect the gang may have robbed several households in the region in the past.
 
 
