GURUGRAM: The Punjab and Haryana high court has directed the state chief vigilance officer (CVO) to investigate the allotment of plots in Sector 52, taking cognisance of allegations of irregularities in their allotment.   had allotted plots in Sector 52 through draw of lots in 2005.

 The direction was issued following a petition filed by Sonipat-resident  , who had applied for a plot and was selected for allotment of a 300-sq-yd plot in the draw of lots, but eventually denied one. Kumar approached the court after he failed to get relief after doing several rounds of the Huda office over 13 years.
 
 
  
 Justice   directed the CVO to investigate the issue and imposed a Rs 10,000 penalty on Huda for delaying the resolution of Kumar’s grievance. The penalty amount will go to the petitioner. The vigilance department has now directed Huda to submit all records and documents related to the draw and plot allotments in Sector 52. The CVO has to submit his report before the next hearing on April 23.
 
 Kumar had applied for a Huda plot in 2005. Kumar’s name was picked in the draw for a 300 sq yd plot (number 1377) in Sector 52. “Instead of giving me the plot, Huda fraudulently gave possession for it to another person with the same name,” said Kumar.
 
 Since then, Kumar has been filing complaints with Huda and its senior officials, but no action was taken so far. Finally, he approached the high court in 2015. “Huda is not giving any information, even under RTI,” alleged Kumar.
 
 Advocate Rajesh Bansal, counsel for the petitioner, said the court has imposed a penalty on Huda. “CVO has to submit his report by April 23. We’re waiting for it,” said Bansal.
 
 Senior Huda officials confirmed the CVO has asked for records and documents related to allotment of plots in Sector 52.
 
 There are several other people who bought plots from Huda years ago, made full payment for these, but are yet to get possession of the plots. Among reasons why Huda failed to give possession of plots are litigation on land, encroachment and variation in size. As per policy, all these people should be given alternative plots, but in many cases, Huda has failed to do so.
 
 Huda has now prepared a list of 180 such people — 170 from estate office 2, 10 from estate office 1 — and sent a proposal to its chief administrator in Panchkula for approval to allot alternative plots.
 
 
