BHUBANESWAR: When  , a travel bug, visited temples in  , he was overwhelmed by the architecture. As he ventured around the premises of some temples, he was shocked to find gamblers playing cards and youth smoking marijuana. Roy is not the lone tourist to have come across such sorry scenes, a number of other visitors too have been witnessing such anti-social activities in some hallowed precincts. 

 In a much delayed move, the state police headquarters on Friday asked the commissionerate police to curb the illegal practice and take action after Roy sent a tweet, narrating his shocking experience. “We have asked the deputy commissioner of police to seriously look into the matter. No illegal practices will be tolerated anywhere, including religious places,” a senior officer told TOI. 
 
 Roy’s video, narrating what he saw at Lakhmaneswar temple, went viral on social media. “I was shocked to find some people playing satta in the temple. I wonder how the government authorities are silent. Action should be taken immediately,” Roy said in the video. 
 
 The Old Town area here is home to over 100 centuries-old temples. While only a handful of shrines like Lingaraj, Ananta Basudeva and Rajarani are in good shape, others languish in neglect. Locals said this prompted anti-social elements to convert the holy places into their dens. “We have several times told local political leaders and police. But nobody paid heed to our requests. Be it day or evening, anti-socials throng a few neglected and dilapidated temples and are indulged in unscrupulous activities,” said Nrusingha Mohapatra, a local resident. 
 
 Tourism minister   sought to play down the issue and said it is the lookout of the police to curb illegal practices. “This might have been a stray incident that came to the notice of tourists in one or two temples. But almost all temples in Old Town area free from anti-social activities,” Panda told TOI. 
 
 Significantly, the commissionerate police is empowered to prevent illegal activities at heritage temples in the city under Ancient Monuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains Act, 1958. As per the Act, the local police should conduct regular patrolling around the temples and prevent harassment of the tourists by anti-socials. Contacted, deputy commissioner of police Satyabrata Bhoi said he already asked the   police to keep surveillance on those, promoting illegal activities in temples. 
 
