PATNA: The state   on Tuesday decided to directly communicate with the people in rural areas of the state to counter the perception being created by the Congress-led opposition against PM   government at the Centre.

 “Congress has been spreading rumours. Our party will go to the villages and reach out to the people through our booth-level workers,” state BJP chief Nityanand Rai said after the daylong deliberations of the party leaders here.
 
 BJP national general secretary in charge of   and Rajya Sabha member Bhupender Yadav, co-general secretary (organization) Saudan Singh, Union ministers Radha Mohan Singh and Ram Kripal Yadav, state ministers Nand Kishore Yadav, Mangal Pandey and   and state party vice-president Dewesh Kumar, among others, also addressed the meet.
 
 Curiously, on Tuesday, Rajya Sabha member Dr C P Thakur wondered aloud as to how long the Rashtriya Lok Samata Party (RLSP) led by Union minister Upendra Kushwaha would remain in the Bihar NDA. He also said the BJP should in no situation cede more parliamentary seats to the JD(U) led by CM Nitish Kumar and, instead, should contest more seats than it has won in the last election. Further, he said the state BJP should discuss with the JD(U) as to why it made   — one of the organizers of the ‘Deen Bachao, Desh Bachao’ conference of the Muslims held under the banner of Emarat-e-Sharia — its nominee for the legislative council seat.
 
 However, Rai merely said, “The Bihar NDA partners will sit together and resolve all matters, including seat-sharing, amicably.”
 
 Stressing on the need to counter the opposition, he said the “rumours” being spread by the   against it were three-fold: that the BJP is against the interests of the scheduled castes (SCs) and scheduled tribes (STs), that it is opposed to reservation granted by the Constitution for them, and that the BJP has become a party of the rich.
 
 Right from its Bharatiya Jansangh days, the BJP has supported the quota for the SCs and STs, and also filed a review petition in the Supreme Court on its order that has seemingly “diluted” the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, Rai asserted, adding if the Supreme Court does not review its order, the government of PM Modi would bring an ordinance to rectify the situation. He said the Congress and RJD did not support the Bill to give constitutional status to the backward classes in the Rajya Sabha.
 
 As to the claim of the leader of opposition in the state assembly Tejashwi Prasad Yadav that the BJP was behind the filing of chargesheet in the alleged ‘land for railways hotels’, Rai said, “It is the CBI that has filed the chargesheet. The BJP is definitely against violators of rules and law to amass unlawful property.” 
 
 
