PATIALA: At a time when Patiala has been marked in the list of polluted cities globally, the district administration has started uprooting the entire greenery and plants from the main highways falling within the city’s boundaries.

 The greenery from the stretch urban-state area to   area is being replaced by tiles. These plants were nurtured from past some years in the mid-line of the main Patiala-Rajpura road. However, the district officials in order to beautify the city has removed the greenery.
 
 Notably, in its recent study, the   (WHO) claimed that Patiala, along with other 13 Indian cities had recorded PM2.5 concentration level of pollution reaching 101 micrograms per cubic metre (ug/m3) from 2010 to 2016. However, this report was trashed by the   and the state government maintains that it was baseless to count Patiala as more polluted when Punjab’s Industrial hub Ludhiana and some other cities are also witnessing the same or more pollution levels.
 
 Patiala deputy commissioner   claimed that the plants meant for plants on the main road were uprooted under the beautification project in the city. He added that eroded soil used to flow on the road and then into the drains leaving a big problem for the officials to counter it. “The eroded soil used to come on roads and then because of it, the drains used to get choked. Moreover, these are plants, not trees, which are being uprooted. So, they won’t leave any adverse effect on the environment.” He said that some plants are being preserved on the stretch of Patiala–Rajpura road.
 
 “We are preserving some plants in good condition and have uprooted mostly those which were not in proper condition,” said Kumar Amit.
 
 It is learned that forest officials have written to the district authorities to preserve these plants on the roads, as it not only helps in curbing the pollution but also saves the environment. The officials of forest department, who do not wish to be quoted, claimed that it was a completely wrong move to   these plants in the name of beautification and replace them with tiles. They added that even the toll plaza owners are given instructions to maintain greenery by planting small plants on the road-dividers to preserve the environment and curb pollution. 
 
 Patiala divisional forest officer   said the central area of the road does not fall within their limits but those of public works department (PWD), who have initiated the beautification project. He added that there is no doubt that greenery in the center of the road controls the pollution to some extent.
 
 PWD executive engineer   said, “The project costs around Rs 4.5 crore and we will complete it soon. The plants are being replaced with tiles.There is no proposal of planting any new plants.”
 
 
