NEW DELHI: This is neither a mandi, nor a market but you can be forgiven for mistaking it as either. It’s a stretch of   between   and  , a   of  . Half the width of the road has been taken up by haphazardly placed carts of fruit vendors with vehicles parked behind them. This means a constant stream of customers who stop by on their vehicles. These people, other commuters and e-rickshaw and Grameen Sewa vehicles occupy another lane. This leaves barely one lane for the traffic to pass. No wonder, this stretch is a nightmare for drivers through the day.

 
  
  
 
 Residents say that mushrooming of coaching centres between Nawada and Janak Place in the past five years — there are almost 300 — has compounded the problem as thousands of students from all over west Delhi leave their two-wheelers on the road. Last year, PWD had roped in consultants to prepare a detailed plan to decongest this stretch. The police had closed some cuts that were used for U-turns between Uttam Nagar and Dwarka Mor. The barricades were soon removed by e-rickshaw and Grameen Sewa operators for quick turnarounds after dropping passengers.
 
 The 8-km stretch has five Delhi Metro vomitories, emptying onto the main road. This reduces the four-lane road into a one-and-a half lane one for almost 5-6 km.
 
 “We remove improperly parked vehicles under anti-encroachment drives in 28 corridors regularly. We have appealed to the civic bodies to identify some of the stretches to conduct concerted drives to remove temporary markets and other structures to free up space for vehicle movement,” says Garima Bhatnagar, joint commissioner, traffic.
 
 This stretch has seven DTC routes and is the only road that connects Dwarka to the rest of west Delhi. According to the traffic police, almost 7-8 lakh vehicles — including DTC buses — ply on this route. Traffic remains heavy through the day with bottlenecks starting to form around Uttam Nagar, Tilak Nagar and Janakpuri due to haphazard parking of e-rickshaws and Grameen Sewa vehicles.
 
 “They stop or park anywhere to pick passengers and there are thousands of them plying on the route. The handful of traffic policemen deployed here can do little to stop them,” says Sanjay Gupta, secretary of a traders’ association near Uttam Nagar. “Then there are the RTVs plying between Janakpuri and Najafgarh. These drivers too do not follow any norms. We have appealed to successive MLAs, traffic police and municipal councillors to regulate their movement but to no avail.”
 
 Prashant Shukla, a member of a traders association at Janak Place market, says small eateries along the road are also responsible for the mess. “At any given time, there are atleast 200 scooters or motorcycles parked near the Uttam Nagar West and Janak Place metro station. Last year, after we appealed to the traffic police, some drives were conducted to remove these vehicles but little has been done to control the mafia that is behind all this here,” says Shukla.
 
 The traffic police has now moved a proposal to start a joint drive involving the local police, civic bodies and traffic police to remove encroachments along the entire Najafgarh Road, from Moti Nagar to Najafgarh.
 
 
