A ubiquitous bouquet of roses for   is passé, and instead, love is being expressed through potted plants by Noida youngsters this year. The expression of love has gotten redefined with a hint of personalisation and thoughtfulness, so potted plants – ornamental or flowering, indoor or outdoor –are the preferred gifts among youngsters. Nursery owners in the city tell us that in the past few weeks before Valentine's Day there has been a rise in the sale of bright and colourful plants with beautiful flowers and decorative foliage, as these potted plants are less pricey, last longer and have more impact when it comes to expressing love.
 
  
  Red pansies are a substitute to rose
 
 
  
 
  Akshay Yadav, owner of   in   and   in Sector 125, says, "While a rose stem/stalk costs around Rs20-25, and during this time of the year when the roses are in demand, it is sold at Rs50-80 per stem, and a potted rose plant also costs around Rs20-25. So, why buy flowers when a plant will last longer and costs almost the same?"
 
  Deepak Nagar of   in Sector 38A adds, "Students mostly have a shoestring budget. So plants are a good gifting options for them. Most of our rose plants have sold out. Apart from rose in various shades, our bestsellers for Valentine's Day are bright red crotons, petunias, blanket flowers and bamboo sticks that are available in quirky and colourful pots and planters."
 
  For those looking for alternatives to roses, Jyoti Dhanda of   in Greater Noida suggests, "Some of the best alternatives for those looking to gift plants other than roses – azaleas with their beautiful red or pink flowers almost look as pretty as rose flowers and have an amazing fragrance. Ranunculus bulbs in bright shades of red, pink, purple and yellow also make for a good gifting option."
 
  
 
 
    says, "For Valentine's Day, our hot-selling plants include exuberant red Aglaonema, pink Syngonium, braided money plant, Sansevieria and lucky bamboos. These are bright, colourful, last longer and make pretty affordable gifts."
 
  Theatre actor and Noida resident  , says, "The environmental and economic benefits of this trend are many. In my opinion, it's a great way to spread love to not only your partner but also to nature. While flowers wilt away in a few days, a plant grows along with your relationship. Just like books that stay with you forever, potted plants are also a sweet reminder of your relationship."
 
  
 
 
  Guncha, theatre actor and a resident of Sector 137, says, "Gifting plants for Valentine's Day is more meaningful as plants stand for being grounded, growth and permanence, as opposed to bouquets. Bouquets are a lot like flings, which fizzle/dry out within a week. Plants are forever and with the right amount of nurturing and care, they thrive, just like relationships."
 
  Echoing similar sentiments, another theatre actor Shashank Bansal, says, "Relationships are like flowers. If you water your flowers, they grow and bloom. Similarly, if you shower your partner with love and care, the relationship grows stronger every day."
 
 
 Pooja Singh, owner of Ozzie's Terrariums in Sector 41, tells us, "We have a special range of Terrariums, which are small ecosystems in glass jars that are self-sustaining, and need little to no care at all. We have sold terrariums to a lot of young and working professionals from NCR, who live in limited spaces and have limited or no time to maintain a garden. For Valentine's, our range of small terrariums that cost Rs500-600 are quite a hit with youngsters."
  
  Terrariums in glass jars are popular as gifts this season
 
  — Aditi.Pancholi@timesgroup.com
 
 
  
 
