PUNE: The Shirdi airport will become a 24-hour operational facility by the end of March as IndiGo is expected to start two flights from the temple town, taking the total flight movements to eight.

 Suresh  , vice-chairman-cum-managing director of MADC, said Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) will inspect the airport before the night landing facility starts at Shirdi. The Shirdi airport is the only functional facility managed by the Maharashtra Airport Development Company Ltd (MADC) in the state. 
 
 An official said the   (AAI), in collaboration with MADC, would set up a new aircraft operations building at the airport. 
 
 “The building will function on the lines of the night landing facility in case of poor visibility for the aircraft. Its construction will be over within a month and some equipment are set to go for a check,” the official said.
 
 The Shirdi airport currently has two flights — one each to Hyderabad and Mumbai — operated by Alliance Air, an Air India subsidiary. “When it comes to the present flights, the response has been encouraging with an 80%,” load factors.” an official said.
 
 Kakani, on the other hand, told TOI that is expected to start a flight to Shirdi from Bengaluru and another via Bhopal and Nagpur. “According to information with us, the airline will use its newly acquired ATRs for the service. The idea is to connect Shirdi with the north and south of the country,” he said. 
 
 Aviation analyst Dhairyashil Vandekar said the night landing facility at Shirdi will be a big boost. “After Mumbai and Pune, the Shirdi airport has a good potential to become a a full-fledged facility with a lot of passenger traffic,” he said. 
 
 President   had on October 2 inaugurated the Shirdi airport and an Alliance Air aircraft to Mumbai was one of the two flights that took off from the airport on the day.
 
 Chief minister   said the runway of the airport would be extended from the present 2,500 metres to 3,200 metres. By December-end, the airport will also allow night landing.
 
 The airport was constructed at Rs 320 crore, of which Rs 50 crore was contributed by the Shri Saibaba Sansthan Trust. The terminal is built over an area of 2,750 sq m and is capable of handling 150 passengers at a time. 
 
 
