DEHRADUN: The Uttarakhand government has stopped providing ration under its Mukhyamantri Vradh Mahila   for a year now, leaving 3.8 lakh elderly women in the lurch. The women and child development minister cited lack of funds for not being able to distribute ration to the beneficiaries.
 
  Under the first of its kind scheme, which was started by the former   government in 2015, nutritious food is provided in aaganwadi centres for older women. Any woman above 60 years of age who is living in Uttarakhand can register to be a beneficiary.
  
  According to data available with the women and child development department, ration worth over Rs 11 crore was distributed to elderly women in the financial year 2015-16, while ration worth Rs 24 crore was given in the financial year 2016-17. Records show that not a single penny has been spent under the scheme since April 2017.
  
  With their regular supply of food gone, many of the destitute elderly women are now at the mercy of others. Jamila Khatoon, 63, has resorted to knocking door-to-door in her neighbourhood in Adhoiwala every evening to ask for leftovers.
  
  Jamila, a street hawker, said, “Some days I can earn up to Rs 50. But other days are not so good. I don’t have anyone to look after me. I was heavily dependent on ration provided by the government.”
  
  Another elderly woman, Safikaan, from  , said that it has been days since she had a hearty meal. “I especially miss the jaggery. We used to get that as part of the ration provided to us. I can’t afford to buy it on my own as I don’t have any source of income.”
  
  Many of the destitute elderly women TOI spoke to said that they did not have bank accounts or below poverty line (BPL) cards. This means that they do not get direct cash transfer for   families and are solely dependent on the Mukhyamantri Vradh Mahila Poshan Yojana for sustenance.
  
  Meanwhile, social activists urged the state government to release funds for the scheme.
  
  Activist   said, “The government should immediately start distributing ration to these women. Is the government waiting for elections to start the scheme?”
