Jodhpur: After removal of Jodhpur SP (rural), home   Gulab Chand Kataria visited strife-torn Samrau in Osian sub-division of Jodhpur on Friday along with the DGP O P Galhotra to take stock of the situation. Terror had struck the village after the incidents of loot, vandalism and arson followed by murder of a liquor trader on Wednesday in the village.

 After the visit of the village Kataria said that he had spoken to the people of the village and have directed the police to take appropriate action against the persons engaged in rioting and assured of suitable package for the affected persons, who lost their valuables.
 
 “What had happened was very unfortunate. I have visited the village and have assured the affected people of suitable compensatory package for them once I received the detailed report on the entire incident”, Kataria said.
 
 6 days after the incident, tension prevails in the village but after the actions like heavy deployment of police and suspension of internet has helped in restoration of peace.
 
 In a rivalry among two groups engaged in illicit liquor trade, one trader Hanuman Sou had been shot and crushed to death by the rival group. His murder had led to a villagers associated with Sou’s community running berserk setting some houses and shops of the rival community by evacuating their houses and looting the valuables. Rioters also set ablaze a police vehicle and a fire tender, next day of the incident.
 
 Police, in order to control the mob fury, suspended the internet services with immediate effect and arrested about a dozen and a half persons for running riot. SHOs of two police stations were also suspended by the government immediately for their failure in handling the situation.
 
 Before this, the police had already arrested 6 persons for murder of Sou, who are currently under police custody.
 
 Taking cognizance of the incident, the high court had also summoned the IGP (Jodhpur Range) Hawa Singh Ghumaria and directed him to provide protection to the people in the village and investigate the matter without any fear and favour.
 
 On the other hand, the Marwar Rajput Mahasabh has announced a [public meeting in Samrau on January 21 and mahapadav in Jodhpur on February 1 demanding all the accused of loot and arson as well as suitable package to the affected households.
 
 Leaders of Rajput community had also met the chief minister Vasundhara Raje on Thursday and had apprised her of the entire incident, after which the actions like removal of the SP Dr. Ravi and sending of the home minister were taken.
 
 
