AHMEDABAD: The complaint regarding Amraiwadi police making a 40-year-old Dalit man lick shoes of about 15 policemen has been transferred to city crime branch for further investigation.  , 40, who was detained by local police for allegedly assaulting a policeman on December 29, registered an FIR with Amraiwadi police for assault and under the SC and ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. He has alleged that he was forced to lick the shoes of policemen at the police station.

  
  Rajdeepsinh Zala, Additional DCP, crime branch, said they have asked for papers of the original case of alleged assault on a policeman in which Jadav was arrested.
 
 “We will later record statements of the victim as well as the accused as we zero in on the other accused. We have also asked for   footage of the police station to identify the policemen and officials” Zala said.
 
 According to Amraiwadi police, Jadav, a resident of Saibaba Nagar Society, Amraiwadi, repairs TV sets for a living. His complaint states that there was a crowd and a commotion at the   near his residence on December 29 and he went out to ask what had happened.
 
 “The person he asked about the commotion turned out to be a constable who instead got into an altercation with him. 
 
 The cop, later identified as  , then hit Jadav with his acrylic baton. Jadav hurt his finger while trying to parry the strikes. When his wife and mother intervened, they were manhandled and abused by the accused and others. Jadav and his family members were taken to the police station and Jadav was put in the lock-up on charges of assaulting a police official,” said an official.
 
 Jadav’ states that Vinod and other policemen brought him out of the lock-up in the afternoon and asked him his caste. He was told to apologize to Vinod by touching his feet. When he bent down and said sorry, the senior officials told him to lick Vinod’s shoes and those of all the policemen, about 15, present there. He was then forced to do so and was sent back to the lock-up after that.
 
 Jadav was taken to the LG Hospital for a medical checkup, where the injury to his finger was found to be a fracture. The involved cops threatened him not to speak about the incident or injury and then he was produced in a court. The FIR says he did not reveal anything to the judge because of the threats made. Jadav states that his wife, who was also manhandled, was in pain the day after and was also taken to a hospital.
 
 
