Across cultures, the number 18 holds prominence. And in Tamil Nadu, it is a number that can make or break a ruling government.

 As the   government prepares to celebrate its first full year in office, a lot rides on the number 18. The Madras high court’s verdict on the 18 disqualified MLAs case is expected anytime and irrespective of which way it swings, it could set to the future course for political developments in the state.
 
 
  
  
 
 The EPS government is in a minority, clinging onto power by disqualifying 18 MLAs who revolted against EPS, in the House of 234. While the opposition has 98 members, rebel leader T T V Dhinakaran has the backing of the exiled 18. In addition, three others have chalked out an independent path, despite contesting the elections under the ‘two leaves’ symbol.
 
 If the verdict is adverse to the speaker’s order, it places the government in a larger minority. While the option to appeal in the apex court is there, the government’s survival could be undermined by the dwindling numbers.
 
 Even if the verdict comes in its favour, the EC has to notify byelections for the 18 assembly segments. While the rebel camp could rush to the higher court now, bypolls to those constituencies could turn out to be a mini-election for the government.
 
 “The verdict will be in our favour since we have done no wrong. This government is in a minority and has no political standing. It is surviving by appeasing the MLAs and is not bothered about the welfare of the people,” said  , the disqualified   from Andipatti and a prominent face in the TTV camp.
 
 Then there is also the question of the ‘18’ sticking together, especially given the lure of being part of the government. Unconfirmed sources are betting 12 to shift their allegiance if TTV moves to topple this government. But his camp dismissed that option. “As indicated by TTV, we are not for bringing down this government but want the present leadership to make way for a new order. We are all together,” Tamilselvan said.
 
 Team EPS could well pull out a surprise by looking at the   camp that has eight members.  , S Vijayadharani, has already set the stage for it. While 117 could be the magic number for the CM, he could ill afford to ignore the importance of 18.
 
 
