Amaravati: The state   has decided to   two of its   from Chandrababu Naidu’s cabinet. The ministers P Manikyala Rao and Kamineni Srinivaswill submit their resignations on Thursday morning. 

 This development comes in the wake of CM Naidu’s press conference wherein he has decided to recall two of his ministers from the Modi cabinet. Senior BJP leaders met at a private hotel in Vijayawada in the late hours of Wednesday in this regard. 
 
 Earlier in the day, health minister Kamineni Srinivas, who belongs to BJP, said that he has already kept the resignation ready in his chamber and there is nothing to worry about it. Contrary to what the BJP members in the   had anticipated, chief minister abstained from taking a dig at the Centre in the Assembly. This has made the BJP leaders change their stand and reiterate their commitment to the development of the state. 
 
 BJP state president and Visakhapatnam MP, Kambhampati Haribabu, said in Delhi that the Centre has been supporting AP financially and has fulfilled 80 per cent of the promises made to the state. He added that the Centre would continue with their helping hand to the state. 
 
 According to Haribabu, the Centre has already sanctioned nine central institutions and started the process to set up central and tribal universities for the state. Guidelines for the formation of Higher Education Funding Agency are being framed at the national level to fund all the national institutions of higher education. He asserted that funds for the two institutions will be routed through the agency. 
 
 Back home in AP Assembly, BJP floor leader, P Vishnukumar Raju, said that the Centre has sanctioned all the institutions and extended greater financial benefit to the state. However, he added that the special category status, which was promised to the state, is not being continued in the same form, but the states that have the SCS were given financial assistance.
 
 Vishnukumar Raju said that the SCS has become a sentimental issue among people. 
 
 
