KOLKATA: With smaller littorals in the   region acquiring strategic military assets such as submarines, trouble could erupt due to errors in identification, believe experts. While Bangladesh has already procured Chinese submarines,   has shown an inclination towards acquiring Russian ones.

 “We need to be careful. As density of such vessels increases, there is every possibility of a clash between friendly nations due to mistaken identity. There is possibility of Myanmar acquiring submarines in the near future. There are problems when the supplier of equipment happens to be the same,” Vice Admiral P K   (retd) said here on Monday at an international conference on ‘India’s Maritime Connectivity: Importance of the Bay of Bengal’ organized by Observer Research Foundation.
 
 While India operates Russian-made submarines, the Navy’s surveillance aircraft and ships are constantly searching for Chinese ones close to Indian territorial waters. The presence of Chinese-made submarines operated by friendly navies are likely to confuse searchers. 
 
 “I do not think people should see too much into China’s string of pearls concept,” said Vice Admiral Chatterjee, a former commander-in-chief, Andaman and Nicobar Command (C-in-CAN). “India need not feel encircled. China is just increasing its sea legs. Nobody is stopping India from doing the same.” 
 
 The retired officer was, however, critical of India’s failure to develop the strategic Andaman & Nicobar Islands economically and militarily. “The land mass of the Andamans is nearly 8,000sq km. Of this, only 6% is revenue land. Of this, only about 0.6% is used by the military. We need to liberalise our mindset and also rethink environmental clearance policies there...There can be no substitute of placing sizeable assets on A&N Islands. We need to study how many assets from Navy’s Eastern Naval Command can be relocated there,” he said.
 
 Japan’s consul general Masayuki Taga delivered the inaugural address. Other participants included professor Takenori Horimoto, senior research fellow  , and   professor Anindya Jyoti Majumdar.
 
 
