Actor   or Rosesh from   vs Sarabhai left Mumbai six months ago to take up ‘spiritual farming’ in  .

 The bumpy road that leads to Barma, in Gaya, about 125 km from Patna, snakes through nondescript villages. Barma, too, is a dustbowl that bakes in the mid-day heat. But actor Rajesh Kumar, known to most people as   from the popular TV show Sarabhai VS Sarabhai — is working towards making it a “smart” village. Led by the actor, the residents of   have adopted ‘zero-budget spiritual farming’, a philosophy that rejects the use of chemicals for organic alternatives. The 42-year-old actor, who hails from Barma, traded his two-decade-old TV and film career for a minimalist life six months ago.
 
 A cluster of brick-walled homes with thatched roofs, Barma received electricity only last month, following Rajesh’s persistent follow-ups with the “bijlee vibhag”. For the last two months, he has been testing the soil on his 10-acre-farm, checking climatic suitability to grow a range of produce, researching organic farming, and is currently in the process of setting up a Farmer Producer Organisation (FPO) with local farmers.
 
 The moment of ‘organic’ epiphany that triggered his radical career move happened last September, says Rajesh, who is seated under a wood apple tree. “I was sitting under a mango tree, somewhere around here, and that was when it struck me, almost like Buddha’s story,” he says, offering his palm to one of his cows, who licks it affectionately. “When I visited Barma last year, I couldn’t believe my eyes. My father had converted our ancestral land from a wasteland to one capable of producing a range of vegetables, fruits and crops in just five years — without using any chemicals for the most part.”
 
 His father, he says, had been urging him to do something about their neglected farmland for years. Rajesh says that he also read a UN study when stated that a portion of agricultural land in India would be rendered barren within two years due to do climatic changes. Then, he learnt that his college friend Nityanand Deepak, who worked in public health for 17 years, had turned towards organic farming three years ago in his village in Sasaram, in Bihar, and had encouraged over 100 farmers to follow suit. And so Rajesh decided to give it a go, but it was not an overnight transformation. A field needs to be free of chemicals and synthetic enhancers for three years before the yield can be certified as organic. “And if your neighbour’s field uses chemicals, the water will seep into your field and ruin everything,” says Rajesh.
 
 As we walk through rolling fields of wheat, Rajesh tells us about his plans. Pointing at tiny green bulbs dangling from the mango trees on his land, he says that they will be plucked, packaged and retailed as chemical-free mangoes — his first batch — this June. “You should always water a tree around the circumference of its shadow at noon,” says Rajesh, eager to distribute his newly-acquired knowledge.
 
 Rajesh’s father, Shivanand Prasad Singh, a 71-year-old with a deep baritone, says that his son’s concern for the environment escalated after he hosted several events for the Rally for Rivers campaign last year. “That the river, which used to flow next to our farm, has gone dry, perhaps, triggered something in him,” he says.
 
 “We are what we eat,” says Rajesh. His tone is fervent. And then he tells us about the curious noises the villagers would hear not too long ago. “It was a “whoosh” kind of sound that people heard when they were crossing a certain field. We later discovered that there was nothing spooky about it — the noise was apparently made by lauki. The vegetables had been injected with chemicals to make them grow faster. These chemicals would make them swell up and they would, apparently, collectively rise at night, making that sound.”
 
 The actor leads us through tomato fields where tiny red and green bulbs lie scattered on the ground. Gingerly touching one, he says that he learns something new every day in Barma. “The farmers in my village may not be very educated, but they can tell you the moisture content which will determine the harvest without the help of any device.”
 
 Clearly, Rajesh’s life has taken a 180-degree turn. Previously, his daily schedule required him to travel from his home in Goregaon to shoot for various TV shows in far-flung studios in Naigaon. “One day, I just felt that instead of going to Naigaon, I’ll go to my gaon,” says the actor, who misses “nothing about Mumbai”. His day now begins at the crack of dawn when he milks his cows, and follows it up with an inspection of his fields. “My sons, Ahaan (9) and Vyaan (6), planted mango seeds when they visited me last October. Now, they demand photos to track the growth of the saplings.”
 
 The first time Rajesh shared his plan to turn farmer, Ahaan’s instant concern was ‘par kisaan toh gareeb hote hain’. “I want to change that perception. If farmers employ spiritual farming, within five years they would earn at least 40 per cent more. Then, they won’t have to go to cities to become drivers and watchmen,” says the father who left his family behind in Mumbai to take up his new vocation.
 
 Rajesh credits his wife Madhvi for being supportive and encouraging throughout. “When an actor takes up another profession, many assume it’s because he isn’t getting work. But in my case, the kind of work I was offered in TV wasn’t challenging and some of the characters were just modelled on Rosesh Sarabhai,” he says of his iconic TV avatar who speaks with a drawl.
 
 The evening we are there, Rajesh has organised a “baithak” of local farmers to educate them about the organic practices the father and son advocate fervently. Rajesh opens the dialogue by sharing the recipe for Jiwamrita, a natural crop nutrient that is infused into the soil a day before sowing. This mixture requires cowdung, cow urine, jaggery, gram flour, soil from under a peepal tree and water. The ingredients are poured into a tank, stirred daily and set aside for seven days before it’s ready. Jiwamrita is an integral part of ‘zero-budget spiritual farming’ — a method popularised by Padma Shri Subhash Palekar, a 66-year-old agriculturalist from Belora, in Vidarbha. Palekar’s approach to farming draws from ancient Indian cultivation techniques and employs mixtures such as Jiwamrita to rejuvenate the land by nurturing bacteria essential for healthy crop growth. “The soil has endured the onslaught of chemicals for decades and Jiwamrita can reverse the effects by promoting the growth of keetanu (organisms) in the soil,” says Rajesh. He then emphasises the importance of going organic and shares numbers that demonstrate the excessive demand and lucrative business opportunity. “Most farmers grow the same produce every year. But the land and climatic conditions here are ideal for growing everything from mushrooms to lemongrass to strawberries. All you need is a little guidance and willingness to try out something new.” He gives the example of papayas, a fruit he has begun cultivating. “Most papayas come from Punjab, while we have the ideal conditions to grow them right here in Bihar, provided we use the right beej (seed).” Rajesh concludes the talk by stressing on better packaging to fetch a good price. “You have to dress up your produce like biyaah ke raat mein dulha,” he says, as his audience breaks into laughter.
 
 Suddenly, Rajesh’s phone starts ringing, and he quickly mutes it. “When you’re in Mumbai, gaon calls, when you’re in gaon, the industry keeps calling.” Life in the farm can be an exercise in slowing down, especially for someone who hails from an industry that demands long work hours. But the actor who has worked in over two dozen TV shows, including Baa Bahu Aur Baby and Comedy Circus, says that if one enjoys work, it doesn’t seem stressful. “Life may come to a standstill after sunset here but it’s also undefinably peaceful and most of the time all you can hear here is your own voice.”
 
 
