NAGPUR: Even though the civic administration has issued strict directives to all contractors engaged in various works to pay minimum wages, many continue to violate the norm. Now, drivers and conductors of three Red Bus operators, under the banner of Bharatiya Kamgar  , have threatened to go on strike from February 20.

 A delegation of the Sena’s Nagpur chapter, led by its president Bhaurao  , submitted a memorandum to municipal commissioner   about their proposed move. 
 
 “The civic body is not paying heed to our demands. So we have decided to go on strike. Our union has written to chief minister, district guardian minister, additional labour commissioner, police commissioner, mayor, transport manager (NMC), transport committee chairman and others about our plan,” said Rewatkar.
 
 Currently, a helper assigned for maintenance of buses and other unskilled works is being paid Rs5,000 to Rs6,000, assistant and supervisor, who come under the semi-skilled category, get Rs7,000, and drivers-conductors, coming under skilled workers, earn Rs11,000 a month. 
 
 But, as per a state government resolution, the minimum wages for skilled, semi-skilled and unskilled workers are Rs14,000, Rs13,000 and Rs11,500, respectively. 
 
 “Besides, we are also supposed to get Rs3,000 dearness allowance, 5% house rent allowance for 26 days and work only for eight hours in a day,” said Rewatkar. 
 
 The secretary of the organization  , a driver, said that even though other private contractors like Kanak Resources engaged by the   were paying minimum wages to its workers, all three red bus operators and two conductors’ agencies are not doing so.
 
 The other demands of the union are the setting up of vigilance wings in all companies working for NMC. This will ensure that a proper enquiry is conducted before terminating the services of any worker. The worker should also get half his salary if he is suspended. 
 
 The NMC’s transport department has asked the resident team leader — the Delhi Integrated Multi-modal Transit System Limited, three red bus operators — Travel Time Car Rental Private Limited, RK City Bus Operation Pvt Ltd, Smart City Bus Services Pvt Ltd, green bus operator — Scania Vehicles Pvt Ltd, and conductors agencies — Unity Security Forces and Training Institute and Security and Intelligence Services (India) Limited to ensure buses do not go off roads. 
 
 Transport manager   has asked all the agencies to take legal action against those who participate in the strike.
 
 
