TIRUPUR: The Tirupur Corporation has denied reports of hiking property tax and accused the opposition parties of spreading rumorus for gaining political mileage. 

 Rebutting the reports, corporation commissioner   said, “We never had the idea of increasing the property tax, which was revised in 2008 when the city was upgraded as corporation. There were numerous buildings which were taxed lesser than the actual. Now, we were conducting an exercise of identifying such buildings and bring the area of those buildings into records, and collect the right proportion of the property tax.” 
 
 A corporation official said, “But, the opposition political parties were spreading rumours for their political gains despite we had explained about it.” 
 
 On last Monday, more than 2,000 supporters of CPM, led by party’s district secretary S Muthukannan, staged protest against the corporation for allegedly increasing property tax. They also submitted petitions to the corporation officials to show their opposition.
 
 The protesters even distributed pamphlets that read: “Injustice! It is lightening attack on the people’s head. Plan of increasing (property) tax to several folds should be dropped.” It also contained so-called probable upcoming property tax tariff.
 
 But when TOI verified about the tariff with the corporation, it was revealed that there were no changes in the tariff. 
 
 Three AIADMK MLAs -S   (Tirupur south), K N   (Tirupur north) and A Natarajan (Palladam) - have jointly issued a statement to ‘thwart’ the efforts of the opposition parties ahead of the upcoming local body polls.
 
 Tirupur South AIADMK MLA Gunasekaran told TOI: “Like many other civic bodies across the state, the corporation is facing a severe financial crunch in the past one and a half years. While its total annual tax revenue accounts to Rs.45 crore, salaries for its staff would touch around Rs 30 crore. While so, as directed by the state government, the corporation was taking steps to identify ‘tax-omitted’ buildings, not to hike the property taxes. Such exercise (collecting tax from ‘omitted’ buildings) will likely help fetch extra tax revenue of Rs 44 crore, which will help to meet its financial needs.” “But the opposition parties were unnecessarily spreading rumours on it,” he added.
 
 Refuting the charges, CPM’s Muthukannan said, “They did not have such intention but we opposed the corporation’s move of collecting property tax in 34 annexed wards on par with the other main wards.”
 
 
