Madurai: Unidentified miscreants have dismantled the e-toilets at Vilakkuthoon, which were under construction by the city civic body. The toilet facility at the busy commercial junction was a long pending demand from the traders as well as people, who throng there for shopping from in and around Madurai.

 The civic body recently installed two toilets at the cost of Rs 6 lakh, which can be accessed after paying Rs 2. Though the incident took place on Saturday, the vandals have not been brought to the book so far. “An FIR was not registered yet even as the complaint was registered on behalf of the corporation. Stringent action should be taken against the vandals for damaging the public properly,” said a corporation official.
 
 Toilet facility at Vilakkuthoon and its surrounding areas is inadequate, which forces the traders and people take to urinating in public places. A toilet which was functioning in between Vilakkuthoon and Kamaraj statue for several decades was razed down by the civic body in 2012. The demolition only augmented the sanitation problem in the locality.
 
 While there were growing demands from all quarters for toilet facility at Vilakkuthoon, Tamil Nadu textile and merchants association went one step ahead by petitioning National Human Rights Commission (NHRC). The commission had registered a case and directed the civic body to take appropriate action. TOI too had published a story highlighting the demand on December 15.
 
 Meanwhile, traders of the locality have urged for the stringent action against the vandals. The members of Tamil Nadu textile and merchants association said that the facility is much needed one. Just when they thought the sanitation issue would be over at the commercial hub, unidentified persons have played spoilsport.
 
 When contacted zone III assistant commissioner R Ramesh said that one of the civic body’s assistant engineer K Mayilerinathan lodged a complaint by 8.30 pm on the same day and got an acknowledgment. Deputy commissioner of police (law and order), Madurai city, V Sasi Mohan assured of appropriate action on the same.
 
 
