The introduction of the integrated unreserved ticketing system (IUTS) at the Kumbakonam railway station has received good response from commuters. While welcoming the move, rail users have appealed to the authorities not to close the existing counters at any cost as they would help commuters during peak hours.  The facility has been launched at 138 stations in Southern Railway including Kumbakonam station falling under Trichy division. The availability of a mobile application to book unreserved tickets will unburden the passengers travelling in general compartments. This is because, earlier, they had to stand in long queues for several hours for getting train tickets from general ticket booking counters. In case of reserved tickets, nearly 50% are booked online. With the introduction of unreserved ticketing system (UTS), booking unreserved tickets was made possible using mobile. These efforts have considerably brought down the number of passengers waiting in front of counters, officials said. Southern Railway launched IUTS for effective utilisation of manpower and facilities, officials added. In Trichy railway division, separate counters are present for advanced and unreserved booking. Two current booking and two more reservation counters have been converted into IUTS from May 25 onwards in Kumbakonam. As railways has said that functioning of counters would depend on passenger patronage, vice-president of Thanjavur District Rail Users' Association A Giri insisted that the railways should not close down the number of counters in Kumbakonam under any circumstance stating patronage.  A senior official from the commercial department in Trichy said that as the facility has been there in stations such as Tiruvarur, Nagapattinam, Alangudi, Karaikal, Needamangalam and Velankanni, both bookings have been done at these stations for a long time. “At major stations including Villupuram, IUTS will be implemented by June, while in Puducherry the facility will be launched on Monday,” he added. During peak hour, the staff have been instructed to sell only unreserved tickets and during lean hours, they will issue both tickets. During tatkal hours, the counter staff will cater to passengers who want to purchase reserved tickets, he added.