MELBOURNE: Is 36 the new 26? Looking at  's run over the last 12 months - two major wins, and one match away from a possible 20th Grand Slam title, giant Croat   standing between him and a sixth Australian Open crown - it would appear so.

 Age is an old word, seasoned just about sums it up.
 
 For the second successive year at  , the combined age of the finalists is 65, with the Swiss, the father of four, the common factor. It was world No.1   last year and it's the 29-year-old Cilic this time.
 
 Before the start of the championship Federer said, "I don't think a 36-year-old should be the favorite of a tournament, it should not be the case."
 
  
  
 Apologies, but it is the case. At a time when 40 is the new 30, where eating right and exercising the new age mantra, and fitter translates to younger, it's only fitting that 30-somethings are gaining a fresh lease of life in playing arenas. Insport as in society.
 
 There's nothing like numbers to drive home a point. There are 21 men - aged 30 and over - in the world's top-50 and three in the top-10. Incidentally, Cilic was the only player aged less than 30 to make a major final last year. The Croat played Federer at Wimbledon but couldn't get going because of a blistered foot.
 
 Federer, who leads the head-to-head 8-1, having won both meetings last year, said 10 years ago in his career was a totally different life. It was before the kids came along.
 
 "I see things a bit different now, I'm wiser, maybe more laid back," Federer said, adding that his latest charge might have something to do with a changed mindset. "I never thought I was going to play a bit of a lesser schedule, which actually is quite enjoyable. I always thought I'm just going to keep playing from January to November every single year, 20-something tournaments. But I was able to adapt to it. Maybe that's also one of the reasons I'm still out there."
 
 Big-serving Indian  , who is in Sunday's mixed doubles final, hit with Federer on Saturday on the eve of the singles final. The 37-yearold Indian, 6 ft 3, has played Federer once, more than 10-years ago in the first round of Halle, and has hit with the superstar Swiss a few times.
 
 
