PATNA: Deputy CM   on Friday launched 67   (SDCs) for imparting four courses in the information technology (IT) sector compatible with the market demands in order to pave way for proper placement of the candidates.

 The SDCs run by 52 different organizations under   (BSDM) of the state IT department are spread over 27 districts in the state. “Anyone who has basic knowledge of computer, English language and improved communications skill, and is also skilled in the choice IT courses compatible with market demands will not sit idle,” Modi said.
 
 He also asked IT department secretary Rahul Singh to prepare database on the scope of jobs that might open up for the youths in the next 10 years, as it would help in doing the advance planning of the new skills that might be required in the job market.
 
 Singh said four IT courses — domestic data entry operator, desktop publishing, CRM domestic non-voice and mobile phone hardware repair technician — would be taught at the 67 SDCs. “Five other courses are also being identified to be introduced after formal approval from the required body,” he added.
 
 Stating that it was for the first time that systematic method and infrastructure has been put in place for skill development of students and youths in the IT sector, Singh said the candidates getting skill in the four courses have to register their attendance through biometric facility. “Their placement will also be taken care of,” Singh said, adding the SDCs would be centrally monitored.
 
 Labour resources development minister   warned the organizations running the SDCs against outsourcing the centre to any other organization. “This will not be allowed,” he said.
 
 Modi said 794 other centres have also been giving training to the aspirants in 40 identified trade courses as per the need of 14 departments. “As many as 2.29 lakh persons had been given training at 794 centres so far,” Modi said, adding all the 107 sub-divisions would have an industrial training institute (ITI) during 2018-19.
 
 
