Chandigarh: The Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) of India has pointed out that jails in Haryana are short of over 50% arms and ammunition than their requirements. 

 In its recent report, tabled in the state assembly, CAG observed that shortage of weapons in jails was bound to have an adverse impact on the security. It has also found that most of the walkie-talkie systems purchased by jail authorities for better internal communication and monitoring have become non-functional.
 
 These findings of CAG are based on appraisal of security arrangements in selected eight jails of the state. The report has stated that the Punjab Jail Manual prescribes that every warder shall be provided with military breach loading fire-arms and buckshot ammunition. According to the manual, 50 rounds blank and 30 round of buckshot were to be allotted to individual officials.
 
 “Ammunition for deputy superintendents, senior assistant superintendents, assistant superintendents of jail was to be provided on the scale allowed for warders. But during checking, huge shortage of pistols, revolvers, guns, rifles and ammunition was found as on April 30, 2017. Jail administration has only 21 pistols/revolvers as against the required 72. Similarly rifles/guns were also found to be 841 against the requirement of 1,368,” CAG has reported.
 
 In its defence, Haryana DGP (jails) claimed that norms of arms and ammunition were on higher side in the Punjab Jail Manual. CAG, however, refused to accept DGP’s explanation on the ground that norms prescribed by the jail manual have to be followed till they are not amended or replaced by new manual.
 
 During scrutiny of jails, CAG has also found that out of 220 existing security equipment, including mobile phone jammers, door framed metal detectors, hand held metal detector and search lights, 151 were non-functional.
 
 Shortage of arms/ammunition in Haryana jails
 
 Arms/ammunition
 
 Requirement
 
 Availability
 
 Pistol/revolver
 
 72
 
 21
 
 Rifle/gun
 
 1,368
 
 841
 
 Round ball
 
 12,540
 
 5,382
 
 Round blank
 
 15,050
 
 7,425
 
 Round buckshot
 
 10,450
 
 9,417
 
 High-rise buildings threat to jail security
 
 CAG has found serious security threats near Kurukshetra and Ambala jails on account of high-rise buildings adjacent to these. In Kurukshetra, the entire jail is visible from the roof of an adjacent marriage palace (banquet hall). Similar problems were also found in Narnaul, Hisar and Sirsa jails.
 
 
