GURUGRAM: The   intersection, one of the city’s busiest, has become prone to accidents after the opening of the two new underpasses. Traffic coming from four directions - old Gurugram (district and sessions court side), Badshahpur (or Sohna), Hero   and   – find themselves converging at the junction at the same time because there is no red light, or signage to guide motorists in the right direction. 

 Though cars largely use the underpasses, shared autos and buses don’t because they need to stop at Rajiv Chowk for passengers. This, combined with random traffic flow, has made negotiating the crossing at the surface level a problem for commuters. Traffic authorities have started placing cones and jersey barriers to regulate traffic at the intersection after a number of accidents were reported from the area since the underpasses were opened on January 22. 
 
 
 
  
 
 The main confusion is caused by traffic moving on the road from Badshapur to old Gurugram. People don’t take the   on the stretch and go straight ahead, often entering a bay meant for taking a U-turn. According to a private security guard who has been manning the junction, this happens as the road is not straight and there is no signage. Rajeev, who is a regular commuter along the stretch, said, “If you are headed straight and enter the wrong bay, you keep driving on the wrong side, instead of taking the U-turn and coming back again.” 
 
 There is also a possibility of vehicles colliding at the junction where traffic from Shankar Chowk meets vehicles moving from the court side to Badshapur without using the underpass. Also, traffic from Hero Honda Chowk runs into the traffic stream moving from Badshapur to court that does not take the underpass.
 
 Vehicles moving from Rajiv Chowk to Khandsa and Shivaji Nagar often take a shortcut and end up on the wrong side of the road under the flyover (NH8), coming face to face with traffic moving from Hero Honda Chowk to Shankar Chowk, making that stretch prone to accidents too. According to Saurabh Singhal, traffic transportation expert at Bloom Companies, the   consultant and engineer for the underpass project, the project was completed without modifying existing bays on the road under the NH-8 flyover. “We cannot change the direction of the bays as it is not under the scope of the project,” he said.
 
 On the installation of traffic lights on the Rajiv Chowk stretch, he said MCG would have to work on that. According to a road safety expert, a number of accidents are taking place at Rajiv Chowk daily but these are not entering police records as none of the accidents have been fatal.
 
 ACP (traffic) Hira Singh said traffic trials were being conducted in the area. “We are trying to modify the traffic routes, using cones. NHAI is yet to create bus stops and install flood lights at the Rajiv Chowk intersection,” he said, adding that some signage had been set up but work on zebra strips was pending. “We are trying to ensure free flow of traffic on the stretch with the infrastructure which is already in place,” he said.
 
 
 
