MUMBAI: More than three years after Judge B H Loya’s death, one of his mentors, retired district judge K B Katke, welcomed the   verdict. “I am happy the SC has given a good verdict that finally sets the matter at rest. The petition was based on rumours, not facts. And rumours cannot be considered in any court of law,” said Katke. 

 The retired judge said the SC verdict was what he had expected. “It has been our stand as well as the stand of the family that the sudden death was very unfortunate and politicising the issue of Judge Loya’s death was most unfortunate,” he said. Two months after petitioners had approached the Supreme Court to demand a probe into Judge Loya’s death, his son Anuj had reiterated his stand at a press conference on January 14 that he suspected no foul play in his father’s death. 
 
 Anuj, a second year student at Fergusson College who lives with his mother and sister in Pune, could not be reached for his reaction on Thursday. “The family has suffered for four years now. They do not wish to discuss anything more in respect of Judge Loya’s death,” said Katke, who met Anuj last month. 
 
 In under two decades, Judge Loya rose from a civil judge in the junior division to a special   judge. But for his untimely death on December 1, 2014, just 11 days before he would have turned 52, he had every chance to be elevated as a judge in   in 2018-19. A native of Latur, Judge Loya joined the judiciary in November 1995 as a civil judge, junior division, among the most subordinate levels in judicial hierarchy. 
 
 He was soon promoted as civil judge, senior division, and then to the cadre of district judge a decade later. “I was his senior in Mumbai sessions court and when he was a judge in Ahmednagar in 2006-2007 when I was district judge, Shrirampur,” said Katke. 
 
 Before his appointment as special CBI judge in June 2014 for the   fake encounter case, Judge Loya was registrar (vigilance) at Bombay HC. “Loya was in Mumbai for six years till his demise. I was with him in city civil court in 2010 for a year or two. He treated me like a mentor. We would discuss law and legal issues at times,” said Katke. Judge Shrikant Kulkarni, one of the two judges who was with Judge Loya in Nagpur for a wedding on the day he died, declined to speak. Judge Kulkarni was appointed chief of   state legal services authority last July while Judge  , who was also with Judge Loya on the day of his death, is principal district judge, Pune.
 
