BENGALURU: Around 6.30pm on January 31, members of a WhatsApp group — mostly based in the city — were discussing TeamIndus and its aborted mission to the Moon. A little earlier, a middle-aged homemaker, part of a long queue waiting to enter the   Planetarium to witness the lunar trifecta, was overheard telling someone over the phone to sprinkle holy water at home once the   was over.

 The conversations represented two diverse views — of a keen interest in science and  
 
 Over the next two hours, social media was abuzz with posts about how people reached their destination faster than usual and how there was very little traffic. A Google Map snapshot of the city at 7.53pm showed little or no traffic at most junctions, a once in a Blue Moon phenomenon.
 
 Many Bengalureans preferred to remain indoors during the eclipse, catching traffic police by surprise. R Hithendra, additional commissioner of police (traffic), tweeted: “eclipse effect?”
 
 Prof K Chandrashekara, who teaches biology at the planetarium and works at GKVK, told TOI: “It took me only 10 minutes to reach the planetarium from Hebbal. On other working days, it takes at least 40 minutes. I never thought an eclipse would have such an effect in a city like Bengaluru, that too in 2018.”
 
 Chandrashekara, who overheard the homemaker on the phone, explained how people’s minds work. “The woman was not completely superstitious. She had come to see the eclipse at the planetarium. Yet, she couldn’t help instruct someone at home to sprinkle holy water.”
 
 HR Madhusudan, senior scientific officer at the planetarium, was baffled how people continued to follow superstitious practices, despite science debunking many of them. “I’m not sure how this can be explained,” he said.
 
 
 
 
 However, it may not be all that difficult to explain it. For instance, the Indian Space Research Organization (Isro) is known to offer special prayers at Tirupati before big launches. It was even done before the Mars Mission. Nasa has a superstition with peanuts. This doesn’t mean they lack scientific temper.
 
 It is what renowned scientist   calls “non-overlapping magisteria”, where one can indulge in both science and religion and follow both belief systems without them overlapping.
 
 It's been 21 years since Gould first put forth his idea. And Bengalureans on Eclipse Wednesday were living proof that it’s quite valid.
 
