CHENNAI: Against the intense speculation over dissident   leader T T V Dhinakaran's next political move, chief minister   and deputy chief minister   on Wednesday exhorted cadres to conduct themselves with utmost discipline as they did under former chief ministers M   and J Jayalalithaa. 

 The leaders have been on a drive to purge   loyalists from the party. 
 
 On the eve of MGR's 101st birth anniversary celebrations, the leaders, issued an epistle to urge cadres to take a pledge on MGR's birth anniversary to work for a resounding victory in all forthcoming elections. 
 
 Panneerselvam and Palaniswami will lead the celebrations, garlanding the statue of MGR at the party headquarters on Wednesday. 
 
 The party has laid out its plan for three days of public meetings across the state. Panneerselvam and Palaniswami will speak at Ambattur and T Nagar in Chennai. The meetings are aimed at 'enlightening' the masses about the achievements of the government and the "vicious" attempts of rivals to pull it down, and expose the "  family." 
 
 The duo said the AIADMK would march forward with its focus on the welfare of public, cadre and growth of the party. 
 
 The former chief minister, despite her ill-health, worked for the party's successive victories in the assembly elections. 
 
 "The conspiracies hatched to grab the party and topple the government after the passing away of the leader have been broken. We have kept in mind  's words that the party is above all," the leaders said. The coordinator and joint coordinator paid floral tributes to Jayalalithaa at her memorial last week, after the end of the assembly session.
 
 The leaders sought to remind the cadres Jayalalithaa's assertion that the party would remain in power for several years to come. 
 
 "The cadres should keep in mind the need to protect the party floated by MGR and lead it to victory. That is the way to express our gratitude to Jayalalithaa, who led us like a beloved mother," they said, assuring the cadres the government would strive for the welfare of the people.
 
 
