Almost 15 years after Chennai’s most notorious gangster Ayodhyakuppam Veeramani was gunned down by police on the Marina, the city’s dark underbelly is throbbing again. The massive gathering of antisocial elements at the birthday party of absconding gangster Binu Pappachan indicates the emergence of the gang culture in the city and its suburbs.

 Throughout the 1990s, Chennai was divided into territories controlled by gangsters like Asaithambi, Kabilan, Venkatesa Pannaiyar, Veeramani, ‘Punk’ Kumar, ‘Dindigul’ Pandi, Gate Rajendran, Chera and others. But then Chennai commissioner   and his subordinate   were as ruthless against the Madras mafia. They made the gun talk and wiped out the gang lords.
 
  
  
 But 15 years later, the almost-forgotten dark alleys have new trespassers. Gangsters now thrive on a variety of illegal activities. From being blue-collar henchmen who slew, kidnapped or extorted, they have gone white-collar — dealing in red sanders, forging documents to grab land and driving expensive cars.
 
 According to police, Thiruvengadam of Velachery and C D   of   have been involved in forging documents on a large scale. A police officer said, “They are rivals in the real estate business and they both prepare fake documents of unmanned properties in the city. Then they take over the plot and strike a deal with the land owner. Many leading builders and property developers on Old Mahabalipuram Road (OMR), Velachery and Madipakkam areas pay ‘protection money’ to these gangsters,” he said.
 
 Many criminals, including slain gangster Appu, are involved in smuggling red sanders. They operate in Red Hills and the northern suburbs,s aid police. A day after police gatecrashed Binu’s birthday party, they recovered 380kg of red sanders hidden near a lorry shed. Police are now probing if Binu, who collected ‘protection money’ from scrap merchants in Choolaimedu, was also into red sander smuggling.
 
 Political instability in the state has also emboldened antisocial elements, said police sources. But still, they bank on the terror they spread. Despite the lavish lifestyle gangsters aspire for — some have moved from the dusty lanes of   to posh localities on OMR — every criminal has a violent start to his career.
 
 “A local goon becomes a big time criminal after he kills people standing in his way,” said a senior police officer. He cited the example of  , one of Binu’s associates, who formed his own gang and attacked notorious gangster Dakshina of T P Chathiram inside Puzhal prison. He is now facing nine murder cases.
 
 Retired police officer S Aravindan said lack of cohesion among police teams has given criminals an opportunity to flourish. “Earlier, one police inspector from each zone would monitor the movements of antisocials crossing borders. Their activities in the city will be followed and intelligence shared. Now, there is a lack of follow up,” he said.
 
 But a senior police officer said they have sufficient intelligence to round up Binu and his men. “We have got information about the active antisocials in the city. We will apprehend all the suspects in a fortnight,” he said.
 
