CAPE TOWN:   was elected South Africa’s President in a parliamentary vote on Thursday and pledged to tackle endemic corruption after scandal-ridden Jacob   resigned on orders from the ruling African National Congress.

 An anti-corruption crackdown gathering pace almost simultaneously, with South African police saying eight people had been arrested so far in its investigation into high-echelon influencepeddling revolving around the   family. Chief prosecutor Shaun Abrahams declared Ajay Gupta, one of the three Gupta brothers, a “fugitive from justice” after he failed to hand himself in.
 
 State broadcaster SABC said a Gupta family member was among those detained, while a senior judicial source said cops were expected to arrest up to seven more people and that more Guptas would be among them.
 
 Police said the raid on the Gupta estate was in connection with a state-funded dairy farm, which prosecutors last month called a “scheme designed to defraud and steal”.
 
 But corruption is just one of new man Ramaphosa’s many challenges. He faces an uphill battle in revitalising growth, creating jobs and stamping out a culture of graft in a nation still polarised by race and inequality more than two decades after the end of white-minority rule.
 
 Still, Zuma’s departure late Wednesday provided evidence of the strength of South Africa’s democratic institutions, from the courts to the media and the constitution.
 
 Ramaphosa, in brief remarks to parliament ahead of his first state of the nation address expected on Friday, said he would work hard “not to disappoint the people of South Africa”. “The issues that you have raised, issues that have to do with corruption, issues of how we can straighten out our state-owned enterprises and how we deal with state capture (influence-peddling) are issues that are on our radar screen,” he said.
 
 Ramaphosa, 65, was elected unopposed as Zuma’s permanent successor by parliament, and sworn into the post by the South African chief justice, who had earlier read out the former president's resignation letter.
 
 South Africa’s main stock market index jumped nearly 4% and headed for its biggest one-day gain in more than two years. 
 
