CHANDIGARH: Vivek Kumar from Sector 10 heaved a sigh of relief as he can now apply for the   ( ) examination, for which he had been preparing for the last two years. Vivek is among thousands of students from Chandigarh, Punjab and Haryana who were barred by the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) because they studied from an open school (  of Open Schooling). Even now, these students are not fully assured if they would be allowed to take the exams or as the final decision would be taken on April 10. There are 2013 open school aspirants from the region.

 For now, CBSE has allowed them to apply for the exams following a high court order. The last date for applying for NEET exam is March 12. Fee can be submitted till March 13.
 
 On January 8, students under the National Institute of Open Schooling received a shock when the NEET notification marked them ineligible. The notification read, “Candidates who have passed XII from open schools or as private candidates will not be eligible to appear in NEET-UG.”
 
 Vivek said, “I feel so helpless. Two years of my life will be ruined and my future will be in the dark if I am not allowed to appear for the exam, which is the main reason why I opted for the open board. I wanted to focus on my coaching and did not want to take dummy admission. I hope the court rules in students’ favour.”
 
 Hardeep Singh, regional director, NIOS), RC, Chandigarh told TOI, “MCI took an abject decision of depriving learners under the open-learning stream, even though it has been allowing admission since 2012. 
 
 NIOS has been providing an opportunity to all such learners to complete their studies by attending both theory and compulsory practical classes on weekends and holidays. Around 2,000 learners have opted for the medical stream under Regional Centre, Chandigarh. 
 
 He added, “MCI must retract this decision, as this is the only option available for learners to remain associated with the institutional education.” Experts agree. 
 
 “We hope the HC decision is in favour of NEET aspirants. The CBSE should not have changed the eligibility criteria at the last moment. This has caused unnecessary stress and disillusionment in the minds of students of open schools, said Dr  , a NEET trainer based in Chandigarh. 
 
 
