Here are the boys who have made it to the first edition of   15   2017. And boy, are they hot or what! Plus, they’ve got loads of talent, and, oh yes, they’ve the gals crushing on them

 
 
 He had many girls go gaga over him when he first entered the television industry as a video jockey. And since then, there has been no stopping actor Prajin, who has appeared in many serials and films. Prajin, who took a break from television, is back after a long hiatus, with Chinnathambi. His character as a naïve, innocent guy has conquered the hearts of many, not just making him the darling of the masses, but also fetching him the top slot in   Man On Television, 2017. 
 
 
  He started his career as an anchor with a music channel and hosted several shows like Time Pass and Freeyavidu. Currently, he’s hosting Semma Morning, Top 5, and also does special shows. 
 
  This hottie, we hear, is single. Wanna find out if he’s ready to mingle, ladies?
 
 That innocent look and boyish persona is a killer combo, we think.
 
 
 He made a mark with Kalyanam Mudhal Kadhal Varai on the small screen and went on to impress Kollywood fans as well with films like Miruthan and Kuttram 23. Now, the actor is back on TV with Nenjam Marappathillai.
 
  His marriage to Sriranjani Sundaram is what happily-ever-afters are made of.
 
 Tall and well-built, his gentlemanly ways work like a charm with the audience. 
 
 
 : After starting out as an RJ, he tried his hands at VJing and hosted shows like Time Pass. Presently, he’s busy with Super Kids on the small screen. Vijay has also established himself as a lyricist and singer — remember Carrom Board from Natpuna Ennanu Theriyuma?
 
  He’s single, and we think he has enough time to find his lady love.
 
 Oh, that swag! His sharp features and flirtatious smile keep things going for him.
 
 
  He forayed into the small screen as the host with Kalakka Povadhu Yaaru Season 5. His popularity among viewers won him offers in more shows. And now, he’s all set to test waters in Kollywood with the Dulquer Salmaan-starrer Kannum Kannum Kollaiyadithaal.
 
 : Looks like he’s single. Ladies, take note!
 
  His sense of humour complements his affable personality. 
 
 
 He grabbed attention with Kalakka Povathu Yaaru 7, in which he emerged as one of the winners. While he is presently hosting Wife Kaila Life, he also had a go on the big screen with the fantasy comedy Yenda Thalayila Yenna Vekkala. 
 
 This funny man is looking for love, ladies! 
 
 Who doesn’t like a man who has a great sense of humour?
 
 
 This lad from Kerala, who has hosted several shows in Malayalam, landed a plum role in the multi-lingual serial Nandini, in which he plays the lead. 
 
  It’s tough to believe this hottie is single. 
 
 A man who knows to groom himself scores high on the hot-o-metre, and by that logic, his styled beard speaks volumes for his desirability. 
 
 
 After participating in and anchoring shows like Kalakka Povathu Yaaru, Suriya Vanakkam and Junior Senior, Vignesh established himself as a bankable actor with Pagal Nilavu. He also debuted in Kollywood as a director with Yenda Thalaiyila Yenna Vekkala.
 
  He’s married to Shivani. 
 
 His boy-next-door looks and impish charm work like magic.
 
 
 Best known for his role as the lead actor in Saravanan Meenatchi (Season 3), Rio debuted on television as a music VJ and later went on to anchor game shows like Ready Steady Po and Wife Kaila Life. He has also acted in Sathriyan and has a couple of movies in the pipeline. 
 
  He has stated that his better half Shruthi Ravi completes him.
 
  His aggression and willingness to work hard are his biggest assets. 
 
 
  After debuting in Kollywood with the 2009 film Kulir 100° opposite Riya Bamniyal, Sanjeev tested waters in the small screen and became a household name with the soap opera Raja Rani. 
 
  He’s single, but there’s no dearth of love from his fans.
 
  His chocolate-boy appeal and his earnest smile are a winning combination. 
 
 
 A popular face on television, some of his hit shows include Anni, Selvi, Arasi, Thirumathi Selvam and Thendral. He has also participated in and anchored several reality shows, like Jodi Number One and Super Kudumbam. He’s currently busy with Dance Jodi Dance. 
 
  He, his wife Sivaranjani and son Agnidh, make for a perfect family picture. 
 
 This man doesn’t really age! His easy charm and sharp gaze make girls go weak in the knees. 
 
 
  After getting noticed as an RJ and a VJ, Pappu turned heads when he reviewed films as ‘Review Raja’. The youngster is currently hosting Kalakka Povathu Yaaru Champions.
 
  Go for him girls, he’s single!
 
  A smile that reaches his eyes and melts your heart. Isn’t that enough to do the trick?
 
 
 He became a popular name with the 
 college crowd after hosting shows like Hit List on a music channel. Suresh also tried his hands in Kollywood, playing the lead in films like Adhi Medhavigal and Mo.
 
 : He likes to keep matters of his heart to himself.
 
  He’s the tall, dark, handsome hunk that we read about in fairytales.
 
 
  If he got introduced to the telly audience through Kana Kaanum Kaalangal — Kallooriyin Kadhai, his performances in Office and Jodi Number One gave him visibility. Karthik has now become a household name, thanks to his role in Sembaruthi. The actor has experimented with the 70mm, in films like 465 and Naalu Peruku Nalladhuna Edhuvum Thappila. 
 
 He’s married to Yashini.
 
  His go-getter attitude and never-give-up spirit appeal to all.'
 
 
 RJ-turned-television presenter Ma Ka Pa Anand grabbed attention after he hosted some of the most popular shows on TV, like Super Singer, Athu Ithu Ethu, Kings of Dance, Mrs Chinnathirai and Cinema Kaaram Coffee. Even though he’s ventured into Kollywood with films like Vanavarayan Vallavarayan, he continues to be one of the most sought-after VJs on TV.
 
  He is married to Suzanne George and has two adorable kids 
 with her.
 
 He’s the typical Madras paiyyan that we all want to hang out with.
