KOLKATA: After confining himself at his Golpark home for three days, Kolkata mayor   on Sunday indicated that he was going to resume his normal official duties from Monday.

 An indication to this was apparent when 150 KMC files marked “urgent” were dispatched to the mayor’s home to be signed.
 
 Breaking his silence on the issue,   on Sunday brushed aside the rumours of tendering resignation as mayor. He said he was unwell and hence needed some rest at home. “It is true that I did not attend office for the past three days and that might have fuelled some speculations at the   headquarters or in a section of media. I want to make it very clear that under no circumstances I am going to resign. I was not keeping well and hence decided to stay at home. I am now ready to join office,’’ Chatterjee told TOI.
 
 Mayor said that his blood pressure had shot up and he had troubles with his blood sugar level too.
 
 Reacting to a TOI report published on Sunday highlighting piling of important files at the civic headquarters because of his absence, Chatterjee promised to clear all files once he joined office. He, however, claimed that he was keeping track of every important file. “It is end of a financial year and we need to pay bills to keep up the pace of development work in the city. How can I ignore these files?” he asked. However, a senior KMC official conceded that Chatterjee on Sunday called up an official and asked him to carry at least 150 files to his Golpark home that needed mayor’s signature at the earliest.
 
 The mayor, however, admitted that some problems were arising in some civic departments in the recent past. A source close to him said he was worried over the functioning of the finance wing particularly after the retirement of controller of municipal finance and accounts  . “I have entrusted a senior official to take care of the department,” Chatterjee said.
 
 Chatterjee on Sunday dismissed the rumour that he had distanced himself from party’s high command. “There is no scope for creating a rift on my part. All I want to say is that I needed to clear the air about some episodes and traumas in my personal life. My friendship with someone special. This has nothing to do with my political life. No more controversy please,” Kolkata mayor said.
 
 
