By-  

 CHANDIGARH: On the night of February 6, 2006, occurred one of the most loathsome crimes ever in the city, which even today sends chills down the spine of the investigation officers. It was the triple murder in Sector 34.
 
 The bodies of   vice-principal  , her husband, retired group captain T P Singh, and sister-in-law, Ajit Kaur, lay at separate gory scenes in the house. The former Air Force officer had been shot, his wife’s throat had been slit, and his sister had been bludgeoned to death. When police arrived next morning, they had a mystery waiting.
 
 Investigation officer Amanjot said: “The only clues were a missing car and some stolen jewellery and cash from the house. It looked like some burglars had entered the house for its riches and killed people upon resistance.” There was no CCTV image and the sole eyewitness was a dog that had gone into shock. If only it could speak.
 
 During enquiries around the neighbourhood, a Class-X girl who had stayed up that night to prepare for examinations told police that she had heard some noises. Every clue was leading the cops astray until the criminal did something insensitive.
 
 February 7, 2006, was to start on a bad note for one of Shibani’s colleagues, who used to travel with her to the school. Every day, she would come to the vice-principal’s house and ring the doorbell to get her out. That day, even after repeated buzzers, no one answered.
 
 After waiting a while, the colleague decided to leave, but not before a final check. She stepped in and found a fan running in one of the rooms.
 
 Who in winter would use a fan? And where was that person in the house? She looked in the garage, where she found T P Singh dead.
 
 She called police to the spot. Inspector Amanjot said: “TP Singh had taken 3 bullets in the torso. We found Ajit Kaur’s body in another room and then a dead Shibani in the drawing room. The killers had stabbed the teacher multiple times and slit her throat.” The bodies were sent for autopsy and the family informed.
 
 Shibani Singh and T P Singh had two sons. One worked in Bengaluru and another in a software company at Gurgaon. A few days later, police found out that the elder son, Pawandeep, 29, had missed the big funeral. “It looked odd, so we contacted this son. He said he was in the Northeast,” a cop who worked on the case said.
 
 “In the job of a police detective, even a small clue is enough,” the officer said. Sub-inspectors   and Harinder Saikon scanned the call details of Pawandeep and found out that he had called his father on the day of the crime and the location was Chandigarh, although the next day it was Gurgaon again.
 
 The details revealed more numbers, one of which was located in the city on the day of the crime, while another was of Pawandeep’s girlfriend from the Northeast. The cops reached the Gurgaon house of Tyagi brothers Anil and Ravikant, where Pawan was a tenant. The stolen car was parked there.
 
 The team left for Northeast, where they talked to Pearl’s parents and caught Pawandeep. The Tyagis, his partners in crime for a share in his inheritance, were caught near the pilgrim town of Haridwar. For an almost blind case, it was cracked quickly.
 
 NO REMORSE
 
 Pawandeep’s parents cared for him but it got into his mind that they loved his brother more. A remorseless Pawandeep accepted in the court: “I don’t regret conspiring to kill my parents. I hired the killers but I stood outside while they were at their job.” He submitted that Tyagis and he had reached Chandigarh around midnight of February 6, 2006. After no response to the doorbell, he knocked at the windowpane and his father, assured that it was his son, came to open the door.
 
 As soon the old man did that, the Tyagis pounced on him and shot him in the scuffle. The rapport of the gunshot drew his mother to the drawing room, where the Tyagi brothers overpowered her, too. “I hit my aunt on the head with a heavy flower vase,” Pawandeep declared in court.
 
