MANGALURU: Nithin (name changed), son of a daily wage worker, hardly attended classes even when his SSLC board exams were around the corner. In fact, he attended just 20 classes in three months. However, he was a toppers at the government school in  .

 A couple of years ago, Shreya (name changed), an orphan and physically challenged student in the same school, could hardly read or write her name. However, she cleared all her papers in the SSLC exam. Today, she’s giving her II PU board exams. 
 
 The man behind several such success stories at the school, where most students hail from families of migrant workers and daily wage labourers, is their teacher Somappa M. He spends his free time with his students by visiting them at their homes and resolving their problems, personal as well as academic. He goes on his two-wheeler to visit all his Class 10 students and spends time with them.
 
 “I visit my students at least five times from January to April. It’s the crucial time leading up to the board exam. Students need special attention, especially in schools like the one where I work, because they don’t realise the importance of education and focus on earning their daily bread. When I visit them, they have respect with some fear. I talk to their parents and this has helped too,” Somappa told TOI.
 
 Somappa, born at Hagri Bommanahalli, Ballari, worked as a second division clerk at a court in Bengaluru. He switched to teaching through the qualifying exams and relocated to Mangaluru. In 2013, he joined the school in Mullakadu.
 
 In his first year at the school, the pass percentage was 67%. When Somappa realised that students could do much better, he took it upon himself to improve the pass percentage. In 2014-15, he visited the houses of only below-average students. That year, the school registered a 78% result. Bolstered by this, Somappa began visiting all students, averaging 40-50 in an academic year.
 
 “For good students, I give a separate timetable for around six hours a day. For average and below-average students, I give a slightly different timetable. For weak students, I have a separate strategy,” he said. 
 
 Somappa teaches   but doubles as General Science and English teacher. When students raise doubts in other subjects during the house visits, he makes note of them, clears them up with the other teachers and shares it with students.
 
 Somappa has also qualified thrice for state-level quiz competitions held by the education department for teachers. “The knowledge I gain from books for these competitions certainly helps,” he said. 
 
 
