NAGPUR: A day after an FIR was lodged against Central India Institute of Mass Communication ( ) director Sunil  , Nagpur University (NU) VC SP   said the process to disaffiliate it will begin after receiving the report from its probe panel, led by retired district judge BC Chandrikapure.

 “The college is operating without any principal, teachers and even non-teaching staff since long. It also lacked facilities and infrastructure to teach the students. Continuous complaints are being received from students over fees and other issues. During its surprise visit, the probe panel verified all its aspects and found them to be true,” the VC told TOI.
 
 He said the report will be tabled before the Academic Council for starting the disaffiliation process.
 
 When questioned on why CIIMC was receiving NU affiliation over the years when it was operating without teachers and infrastructure, Kane said that time, it may had principal and teachers, but none of them exist currently.
 
 Mishra, however, countered the VC’s claims stating that he had never appointed any principal, but required number of teachers was always there. He also accused registrar   and deputy registrar Anil Hirekhan of acting with “revengeful attitude” against him for exposing them through   queries. He challenged NU officials to visit CIIMC premises any time and check all the credentials.
 
 “I had already lodged a police complaint against Hirekhan and even a case was pending against him in the high court. He had filed an affidavit stating that I was misusing RTI information with ulterior motives against him. If this is the case, what was the motive of appointing him as one of the members on the Chandrikapure panel?” he asked.
 
 He also sought to know on the need of another panel when the HC had already constituted one under retired judge   for the same purpose.
 
 Defending NU’s moves, the VC said it was forced to appoint a panel after CIIMC students lodge several complaints against its director, including not submitting the student’s exam fees to NU, keeping them in the dark from fee and scholarship structures, and locking up their transfer certificates.
 
 “The panel was appointed as per the Management Council’s decision, while Hirekhan was automatic choice on it, being in-charge of the Academic Section. Therefore, there is no conflict of interest,” he said.
 
 But Mishra termed NU’s moves an attempt by the university administration in connivance with Ashirwad talkies owner to seal CIIMC premises and take over its possession. “Even on date of the incident, I had just requested the cops accompanying panel members not to videograph, as exams were underway on the premises, but they refused. It was surprising that the cops were doing all this, that too without any permission or notice,” he said.
 
 
