MUMBAI: It isn’t just her name reminding one of a controversial   actress that piques one’s interest. With a small bindi, white button-up shirt and trousers and a bright burgundy tie,   makes for a rare picture.

 Kulkarni, who helms the country’s first all-woman railway station,   in Mumbai, says the tie is not about being macho. “It establishes your position as an equal to other male station managers. People take you seriously,” she smiles.
 
 At a time when reports point at a slide in female workforce numbers in the country, the Matunga railway station with its unique all-woman workforce has chugged its way into the   and the Prime Minister’s ‘Mann Ki Baat’.
 
 These women — 41 of them aged between 23 and 53 — are posted across various functions — 17 booking clerks, six RPF personnel, eight ticket checkers, five point persons, two announcers and two cleaners.
 
 It doesn’t take long to sense the change in what has traditionally been a male-dominated space. Potted plants adorn the small patio that overlooks the booking counters. Tables are draped in red velvet and bouquets sit on windowsills and cupboard tops.
 
 “Everyday passengers on their way to a platform, stream into our office with flowers to see us at work,” smiles  , chief ticket inspector who hails from the all-women ‘Tejaswini’ squad of ticket examiners and constables of the railway police force.
 
 Apart from sprucing up the paan-splattered walls, these women from Goregaon, Thane and Kalyan to farflung places in UP and Bihar have been handling tough jobs like handling paralysed railway lines and bodies mutilated in railway accidents.
 
 
 
 This has only increased camaraderie, which extends to a WhatsApp group they call ‘Matunga Darlings’. “We aren’t just colleagues but also each other’s doctor, counsellor and guide,” says Uma Dangre, chief booking supervisor.
 
 The counselling role can extend occasionally to a ticketless passenger. Manjrekar recounts the time when they sat an angry ticketless teenager down in their office, listened to his woes and sent him home with a ticket and some kind words. “As women, we can often gauge and defuse situations in ways that men may be oblivious to,” she says. “Recently, we found a young girl on the platform, lost, scared and dishevelled. She had run away from home. We helped her reconnect with her family.”
 
 Life outside the office is remarkably ordinary. Packing her lunchbox and changing into a cotton salwar kurta that she points out is “self-embroidered”, Kulkarni sets off home. “My daughters call me ‘Matunga’ these days,” she laughs.
 
 
