PUNE: A hardened criminal with at least 49 cases of thefts and burglaries, hell-bent on marrying his wife’s sister, murdered her husband and his mother seven years ago.

  He confessed to the murders recently. 
 
 Sunil   (30), who was in Yerawada Central Prison for violating an externment order, was questioned. “During his interrogation, Kamble admitted to his involvement in both the murders and also gave the names of his three accomplices,” Pankaj Dahane, deputy commissioner of police (crime), said.
 
 Constable   of the anti-organised crime cell (North) was tipped off about Kamble’s involvement in the murders. 
 
 Kamble dumped his co-brother-in-law Sambhaji Gothe’s body near   in Ambegaon taluka in July 2011 after the murder. Four days after his murder, Kamble killed Gothe’s mother when she began asking about her son, threatening to go to the police. Gothe was last seen with Kamble and his accomplices. They had partied together. 
 
 Kamble married his sister-in-law and continued to life a life of crime. Though he was arrested several times in the last seven years, Kamble never let on about these two murders. 
 
 His terror was such that his relatives dared not approach the police or lodge a missing persons’ complaint about the Gothes even though they suspected that he had murdered them.
 
 Dahane said Kamble and his three accomplices bludgeoned Gothe (then 22) of   in   to death and had dumped his body at Pokhari Ghat section near Bhimashankar around July 12, 2011. 
 
 Five days later, Kamble took Gothe’s mother Kantabai (55) with him to Lonavla under the pretext of searching for her son. They throttled her to death and dumped her body at  . 
 
 “Gothe’s body was found on July 16, 2011 and a case of murder was registered with the Pune Rural police. Kantabai’s body has not been found as yet,” Dahane said.
 
 A police team led by inspector Brahmanand Naikwadi arrested Ramchandra Jadhav (31) of Mulshi and   (29) from Ambegaon taluka. “Another accomplice is on the run,” Dahane said.
 
 Kamble was married but besotted with his wife’s younger sister. He married her after the murdering her husband, Naikwadi said.
 
 After two years, the woman left Kamble due to his criminal activities and now lives away from him. “We have traced her and recorded her statement,” Naikwadi said.
 
 Sub-inspector Popatrao Gaikwad said the Ambegaon police found Gothe’s body but since there was no missing person’s complaint and the murder remained unsolved for seven years. 
 
 “Our team had carried out searches in Lonavla ghat section and in Raigad district to trace Kantabai Gothe’s body. We checked all the police stations on that route. But there is no recovery of the body that matches Gothe’s mother,” Gaikwad said. 
 
 
