CHENNAI: All government   might soon be operated round the clock in the Wayanad, Bandipura and Nagarhole forest regions of the   that link   with Kerala and Karnataka.

 At present, vehicular movement in these regions is banned between 9pm and 6am and transport corporations in all the three states operate two buses each during this period to help people, residing in remote areas, in case of emergencies.
 
 A proposal to extend this to all government buses would be taken up for discussion during the upcoming   (SITCo) meeting, said a senior official of the state transport department. “Special training would be given to drivers to avoid road accidents,” he said.
 
 Regarding 24×7 access to private and other commercial vehicles on this stretch, that passes through wildlife habitat, members of a Supreme Court committee constituted to look into the demand for lifting the ban on night traffic recently made a visit to the area and studied the situation. 
 
 In a related development, the bilateral tax for goods vehicles is all set to get expensive in Tamil Nadu. The state has urged the neighbouring states to rectify disparities and fix 5,000 as bilateral tax for every vehicle with an inter-state goods carriage permit. 
 
 Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Puducherry had partly agreed to this proposal at the previous SITCo meeting, according to minutes of the recent SITCo meeting.
 
 Tamil Nadu, between 1973 and 1985, entered into a series of reciprocal agreements with the said states in order to provide an efficient and economical transport service on inter-state routes. Permits are issued to vehicles categorised as stage carriers (buses operated by state transport corporations), goods vehicles and tourist cabs.
 
 Accordingly, government buses with inter-state permits are exempted from taxation and vehicles in the other two categories are taxed at a concessional rate on an annual basis. 
 
 While only 3,000 was collected for goods vehicles in Tamil Nadu, other states collected more than 4,500 and state officials demanded an uniform rate, the official said. This issue is likely be addressed at the next SITCo meet, the official told TOI. “Discussions are also on to double the number of permits too.”
 
 
