Nagpur: Sanjay Bhakre Foundation (SBF), as a part of their monthly one-act play movement, staged two plays titled ‘Deta Aadhaar ka karu andhar’ and ‘Kon melay apla’ at Gajanan Nagar Samaj Bhavan, Wardha Road, on Saturday.

 “SBF is conducting such one-act plays every month for last four years and these plays are its 30th and 31st in the sequence. I carry out these dramas with majorly amateur   because the freshers are very talented and just require proper guidance. Once they understand the onstage behaviour and daring, they can progress a lot. So we bring senior directors from the city who using their years of experience can give these upcoming   artistes a push in correct direction, leading them towards a brighter future,” said Sanjay Bhakre.
 
 In the first play, directed and written by Bhakre and Dasu Vaidya respectively, a boy brings the people from his village to Mumbai for a drama competition. In the meanwhile he feels embarrassed by their way of living and sends them back by lying that the play is cancelled and performs solo with a selfish motive of coming into the limelight.
 
 On the other hand, a character named Krishna arrives at the theatre and through various situations helps the boy realize that a person is dead at the very moment he’s ashamed of his own people. He also makes him realize that all the luxuries enjoyed by city people are a result of villagers’ hard work. The message was very lightly, smartly and creatively presented by the artistes with their versatile acting.
 
 Bhakre said that the people in Nagpur are very much attracted towards the artistes coming from bigger cities like Pune and Mumbai. He urged that rather than being fascinated by them, city youngsters should feel proud about their own city and not be ashamed of it as the city has produced a lot of great people from every field.
 
 “If we ourselves belittle our people, how can we grow? Hence we should realize the good qualities of our people and appreciate them and not just get wooed by others which is a message that is conveyed through ‘Deta aadhaar…,” he said.
 
 Later, second play ‘Kon Melay Apla’ written and directed by Dilip Pardesi and Mangesh Bawase respectively; turned out to be a lighthearted and hilarious experience. The act depicted a story of a kingdom which has a king who is declared dead even when he is alive. Following the news, the entire kingdom gathers and starts conveying real and made-up stories about the king. One funny story following the other with witty humorous dialogues made the play a comical roller-coaster.
 
 All in all, both the plays received an overwhelming response and were highly appreciated by the attendees. Producer of both the skits was Anita Bhakre.
 
 
