JAIPUR: About 39 lakh   at around 4,000 polling booths in the bypolls for the two Parliamentary seats of Alwar and Ajmer and   on Monday. The   said all preparations have been completed for the elections and polling will be held from 8 am to 6 pm. The result of the bypolls will be announced on February 1.

 Ajmer and Alwar Lok Sabha seats and Mandalgarh assembly seat in Bhilwara district are facing bypolls due to the passing away of Ajmer MP Sanwar Lal Jat, Alwar MP Mahant Chand Nath and Mandalgarh MLA Kirti Kumari (all from BJP).
 
 The contest is mainly between the ruling BJP and the opposition Congress who had put up a spirited campaign.
 
 State chief electoral officer (CEO) Ashwini Bhagat said all arrangements have been made for free, impartial and fear-free elections with elaborate security in place. Micro observers have also been appointed. He said in sensitive and highly sensitive areas micro observers have been appointed. Besides, he said photography, videography and webcasting facility has also been made in these areas.
 
 The election commission also for the first time introduced EVMs with candidates’ photographs. Voter Verifiable Paper Audit Trail (VVPAT) machines are used during election process to verify that the vote polled by a voter goes to the correct candidate. He said canvassing for votes in the 100 meter area of the polling booth is totally banned.
 
 He said before the polling begins at 8 an all the polling booths would conduct mock polls under which 50 votes would be cast in the presence of polling agents of political parties to verify the voting machines. The polling percentage would be updated every hour.
 
 Rajasthan police have made four-layer security arrangements for byelections in Ajmer, Alwar and Mandalgarh on Monday. Additional DGP (law and order) NRK Reddy said that sensitive and critical polling booth will be heavily guarded.
 
 “We have set up checkpoints at multiple locations in Alwar, Ajmer and Mandalgarh to stop flowing of liquor or cash,” he said, adding that central paramilitary forces drawn from ITBP, SSB and CISF have also been deployed. Apart from mobile units, the sensitive booths will also be guarded with video cameras. Each assembly segment in Alwar and Ajmer will see policemen regularly carrying out patrolling.
 
 BJP had won all the 25 Lok Sabha constituencies in the 2014 general elections. In Ajmer, Sanwar Lal Jat had defeated Sachin Pilot with a margin of 1,71,983 votes. Alwar MP, Chand Nath who died in September after prolonged illness, had defeated Congress candidate and former union minister Bhanwar Jitendra Singh wutg about 2,84,000 votes.
 
 
