Anasuya means the woman who sees the good side in a human being,” says Nik Gugger, the first MP in Switzerland of Indian-origin, while talking about his biological mother, whom he knows only from his adoptive parents. Though she gave him away on the day of his birth, Nik feels that she has indeed become an embodiment of goodness by trusting the humanitarian side of people, when she entrusted him to safer hands.

 Born in Udupi in 1970, Nik was adopted by a Swiss couple who, a few months before, had taken charge of the Nettur Technical Training Foundation (NTTF) in Thalassery, Kannur. According to him, it must have been God’s plan that he was born exactly the day when his adoptive parents came to Udupi, Basel Mission Hospital, to get their first medical check-up. They took him along to Thalassery and offered him a new life.
 
 Nik’s life story garnered attention during the first Persons of Indian Origin (PIO) conference held in New Delhi on January 8 -9, 2018, which saw a unique meeting of parliamentarians of Indian origin from different parts of the world.
 
 The 48-year-old is all nostalgic, when he says that although he is born in Karnataka, his memories of India reside in Thalassery and are still as vivid as ever. Nik talks to us about those memories and rekindling his relationships in Kerala:
 
 
 
 
 My memories of God’s Own Country are very dear to me. I was four years old so I don’t remember much. However, from the photos, I remember playing with the neighbour — a baby girl in a big garden and also our dog Uzzi. With old tooth brushes and water, we rubbed the dirt off the wheels of daddy’s car. We also had an old tyre fixed on a long rope from the beams of the house roof as a swing. Incidentally, after seeing me on TV and newspapers recently, the girl contacted me and now her family is in touch with ours.
  
  
 
 I also remember the beach. Usually just before the sunset when my dad finished working, we used to go down to the seashore for a swim. Of course my part was to play in the sand with my toys or sit on daddy’s arms as he stepped into the waters, while Uzzi watched me. I would like to see the Nilgiris again, where we spent the hot weeks before monsoon.
 
 As a child I didn’t eat hot curry, I got to know and liked it only later. I also loved the fruits of Kerala such as tender coconut, jackfruit, banana and mango.
 
 
 
 
 When I was about two years old, my mother felt that I was speaking in Malayalam. She asked the maids what I was saying and they said they too did not understand it. At the end, they found out that I was only mimicking the sounds and rhythms of Malayalam because I constantly heard the two ladies chatting.
 
 
 
 
 My parents returned with me to Switzerland when the project was given to Indian hands in 1974. We, however, returned in 2009, when NTTF celebrated its golden jubilee.
 
 
 
 Yes. I came back to Thalassery in 1989 and rekindled my old relationships. It was like I was connecting with my own land and I went on to visit Kerala in 2002, 2006 and 2009. I am planning to come this year in March as well.
 
 Whenever I come to the State, I love to visit the Gundert Bungalow on the Illikunnu Hill, where we were living, see the grand garden and look at the sea. Besides that, it is the people I like to visit, old friends.
 
 
 
 
 Yes. I usually visit the present principal of NTTF Sadasivan and its former secretary Raghunatha Kurup. Sometimes, I visit my mother’s doctor, Mrs Lila Menon and Adarsh, who live in Kozhikode, and ‘akka’ Diana Agnes, the maid who carried me around. I am in touch with an ayurveda doctor there and I always make sure to go for a back waters trip.
 
 In my earlier visits, I made acquaintance with the late Murkot Ramunny, who founded the Gundert Foundation School near the old Fort of Thalassery. The school serves children of financially backward families and there are some of my friends in Switzerland who contribute to its maintenance.
  
  
 
 
 Last time I also met current parliament member of Thalassery, Richard Hay, while I was associated with Ramunny, which also helped me to know more about the land and to plan my work for its benefit.
 
 
 
 
 As I grew up in Switzerland with Swiss parents, I feel completely Swiss. But as I am an Indian as well and visited my birth country different times, I would like to see it prosper and develop in a sound and tolerant way. Therefore, in parliament, I am a member of the foreign commission, with the goal to keep good contact with the world.
 
 
 
 I married my wife Beatrice in 1994. She is a paediatric nurse and loves yodelling, gymnastics, skiing and meditation. I am very grateful to her for supporting my political career.
 
 We have three children. Our daughter loves skating as well as cheer-leading and starts her internship in business administration soon. The middle one, son, likes mathematics best, loves football and plays the guitar. Our youngest son is fond of drawing cars, airplanes and tanks.
 
 My parents are very proud of me. In politics, my father is my role model as he was in the cantonal government of Switzerland. I often talk to him to get his views. A mix of old and new views sometimes leads to sound solutions. My mother and my sisters are also dear to me and we meet whenever possible.
 
 
 Yes and no. Because my parents promised my biological mother that they will never search for her, I intend on keeping it. Personally, I do not wish to intrude into her family and disturb her, if she is still alive. No mother will abandon her child without a strong reason. At least I’m very thankful to her that she gave birth to me in a hospital in Udupi. Once in the realm of God, I shall ask Him to tell and show me all which is still a secret to me.
 
 
