GURUGRAM: Police were in for a rude shock last week when a gangster in their custody claimed he had received a ‘supari’ of Rs 25 lakh from one Gurgaon cop to bump off another. Surender alias   told his interrogators he had been hired by Raj Singh, an assistant sub-inspector of   and currently under suspension, to kill  , the officer-incharge of the city’s Crime Unit No. 9. 

 Police sources said Singh was yet to be booked but a high-level probe has been initiated to look into Sunda’s claims. Sunda is currently lodged in Faridabad’s   jail. 
 
 On January 11, Gurgaon police brought him to the city for a day’s custodial interrogation in an unrelated case of extortion. That is when he made this sensational disclosure.   Singh was suspended a couple of months back after his name surfaced in a case related to gangster Manjeet Mahal. Police sources said Sunda claimed the contract to kill the cop was given to him when he was lodged in Gurgaon’s Bhondsi jail in 2015 when Singh too was in prison in a disproportionate assets case. “Surender told us the ASI met him in Bhondsi jail and the deal to eliminate Kumar was finalised for Rs 25 lakh. 
 
  
  
 After a few days, Singh paid an advance of Rs 15 lakh — Rs 10 lakh to Surender’s family and Rs 2.5 lakh each to two of his sharpshooters. Singh also provided Surender with Kumar’s photo and address,” a police officer said. “While one sharp shooter, Bittu, backed off, another failed in his four attempts to kill Kumar,” the officer added. Kumar said he was surprised when he got to know about his colleague’s intentions. “I am waiting for the directions of my seniors and will file a complaint on Monday if needed,” he said. 
 
 Singh, however, denied any wrongdoing and claimed he was being framed by some police officers. “When I was lodged in Bhondsi jail, I never met this gangster. He was in Barrack No. 12 while I was lodged in Barrack No. 22,” he claimed. Sumit Kuhar, DCP (crime), Gurgaon, said, “We are verifying the statement of the gangster. If the confession turns out to be true, then we will press charges against the suspended ASI.”
