BHOPAL: An environmentalist has sounded an alarm about quality of potable water in state capital. Going by city-based environmentalist Subhash Chandra Pandey’s assertions, quality of potable water in   city is no better than sewage water.

 
 Pandey had samples collected from 28 public places across the city and tested at a lab of his organisation — Global Earth Society for Environment, Energy & Development (G.SEED), an NGO. And the findings are shocking, Pandey said.
 
  
  
 
 Bacteria found in human and animal excreta was present in varying degrees in all water samples collected from across the city — be it hospitals, colleges, railway stations, bus stands. The only exception was Habibganj station platform No. 1 where there was no bacterial impurity in water and it was safe for human consumption.
 
 Addressing a press conference on Friday, Pandey claimed that best-in-the-world machines of Hawk Company were used in his lab as he along with his team set out to test quality of water being provided to people at various public places in the city in the name of “Shuddha pani” (pure water). Referring to results of his test, Pandey said a place like Sultania Ladies’ Hospital, where pregnant women are admitted for delivery, water sample collected from bore-well had 1100 MPN (most probable number) — and that collected from Bhopal Municipal Corporation (BMC) water tank tested 2400 MPN, which indicates degree of bacterial impurities in water. This count in potable water should ideally be zero.
 
 “Bacteria present in potable water in such huge degree at a hospital, where pregnant women are admitted for delivery raises a question about what we are doing with patients. After all, they are vulnerable to virus or bacterial infection due to pregnancy,” he said.
 
 Except for a few places, he said water samples had extremely high presence of bacteria that lead to all sorts of gastronomical problems. Among the worst were samples collected from   platform no 6, which had MPN of 2400, Hamidia Hospital with MPN of 11 MPN, Nadra bus stand with water drawn from borewell showing MPN of 2400 and BMC water tank, 1100. MVM campus borewell water with 1100 MPN and, of course, Sultania Hospital were other places where water was found infested with bacteria. Pandey clarified that 2400 MPN could have been much more than that as they could not go beyond this mark while testing.
 
 J P Hospital— 23 MPN, Bhopal station platform No. 1 — 43 MPN and hand pump at Five No. stop — 4 MPN and Hamidia College— 43 MPN were places where moderately affected water samples were found.
 
 Places, where bacteriological impurities were found between 100 to 500 MPN, include borewell at Nadra bus stand, 210, Hamidia Hospital, 150, Bairagarh station, 120 and   bus stand 460. Water at platform no.1 was found to be the best in quality with presence of zero bacteria in the water.
 
 As far as pH count (acidic or alkaline nature of water), he said the situation was more or less satisfactory as all samples were found between 6.5 to 8.5 pH, which was normal.
 
 In terms of total dissolved solid (TDS) in water, water samples at several places crossed the 500 mark — which is permissible limit in India whereas it’s 45 in Europe. “RO is used to keep TDS in control,” explained Pandey. Dissolved oxygen (DO) in water was found to be at the right level in all samples. But, heavy metal iron was found five times higher in MVM college borewell water, which causes cancer. Test for presence of heavy metals in other samples couldn’t be carried out due to resource constraints, said Pandey.
 
 Water sample from tankers, which were supplying water in Kolar area, were found to have 2400 MPN, but samples of ice taken from candy vendors also had bacterial impurities, but it was not alarming.
 
