NAGPUR: In a unique example, management students of a city college not only persuaded hundreds of shopkeepers to switch to paper bags but also helped women self-help groups in doubling their incomes.

 Along with this, the students have reportedly reduced the load of single-use plastic bags by 50,000.
 
 To make students environmentally conscious, Dr Ambedkar Institute of Management Studies and Research took help of a challenge which focused on discouraging use of plastic bags. Little did the college know that its ‘one small step’ will bring about a big change in mindsets of city’s shop owners.
 
 Under its annual event ‘Abhiyan’, the college challenged around 200 students to collect maximum number of old newspapers. “In first week of March, the students were divided into groups. Going door-to-door, the students collected more than 4,000 kilograms of old newspapers,” said  , assistant professor at the college.
 
 As a pilot experiment, the college donated around 200 kilograms of newspapers to  , a women self-help group which is operating from  . There, a group of 15 women made 5,000 paper bags from the newspapers. “The bags were of different sizes and layers. They can hold a weight from few grams to eight kilograms,” said Deshmukh.
 
 Once the bags were ready, the college purchased all the 5,000 bags from the group. The students again got out on streets - this time to convince retailers and shopkeepers to give up on single-use polythene bags. “By this time, the state government had also announced blanket ban on plastic. While some shop owners were not open to the idea of using paper bags, many gave a positive response as they were also seeking for an alternative,” said 27-year-old student  . 
 
 The students covered different areas of the city - approaching owners of medical, grocery and general stores. “We distributed all the 5,000 bags among 500 shops. Along with the bags, we provided contact details of the self-help group so that those interested can place more orders,” said  , a 24-year-old MBA student.
 
 After distributing the bags, the students were waiting with their fingers crossed when one day, they got a call from the self-help group. “The efforts taken by students proved very profitable for the environment and us. Our centre started flooding with phone calls from people wanting to place orders. While earlier too, we were engaged in making paper bags, the amount of orders increased by around 80%. Our incomes have been doubled,” said  , a worker at the self-help group.
 
 The group has now appointed 10-15 more women to deliver the orders on time. What was started as a students’ awareness initiative has today replaced polythene bags from hundreds of city shops.
 
 
