JAIPUR: The   on Friday directed the state government to consider the report of the committee on stress management for students in   and inform of its decision to the court by April 2.

 The committee was constituted by the state government after the high court took cognizance of incidents of student suicide in the coaching hub.
 
 The division bench of Justice K S Jhaveri and Justice   gave the direction on a suo motu petition filed in 2016.
 
 Sudhir  , amicus curie in the case, said the committee had commissioned   ( ) and based on its suggestions, the committee has submitted its report. 
 
 The committee recommended doing away with dummy school system now prevalent in Kota. It also recommended that the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) and other boards of education that recognize schools in Kota take responsibility of inspecting these schools to safeguard false enrollment.
 
 The report notes that often changes are made on eligibility of students for examinations, number of attempts for an examination, age limits etc without preparatory time for students. These changes have been directly connected to incidence of suicides in Kota, the report notes. It recommended that directives related to the above mentioned points be announced at least a year in advance. ``This would ensure that there is enough preparatory time available for students and teachers," the report notes.
 
 The report suggests that the district administration introduce guidelines for coaching centres and hostels in Kota and the onus for the implementation of these guidelines should be on the district administration.
 
 The committee suggested that the administration set up a common facilitation centre at the city with recreational space for sports and cultural activities. In addition, the common facilitation centre should also have wellness centres for providing multiple mode counselling with confidentiality and anonymity.
 
 The coaching centres were asked to ensure a refund policy which is reviewed from time to time so that the concerns of the students and their families are addressed in the event a students chooses to leave a coaching centre midway. It also asked for the introduction of a system of licensing for hostels and paying guest accommodation to ensure that quality is maintained.
 
 The report recommended a proactive role of the police in controlling sale of alcohol to minors and for the setting up of a students' police stations with female officers for attending concerns of girl students. 
 
 It said any form of advertisements by coaching centres should incorporate a disclaimer stating that studying in that particular coaching institute does not guarantee admission in medical and engineering colleges and admission is on merit followed by interest and aptitude of students. The report also recommended orientation programme for the parents at the time of admission to understand the negative effects of parental pressure and parental expectations on the child.
 
 
