PUNE: The   ( ) has in a significant order held that possession of flat given for fit out (i.e. to make interior spaces suitable for occupation) without a completion certificate cannot be treated as a legal possession. 

 A homebuyer occupying flat against such fit out possession is not entitled to any relief like interest for every month of delay in completion of project, the authority held. 
 
 MahaRERA member and adjudicating officer B D Kapadnis refused on March 9 the claim by nine out of 23 complainants against a Pune-based realtor, APL Yashomangal Developers, seeking interest on every month of delay in the completion of Alfa Greenfields housing project at Vadgaon Maval, observing that these homebuyers had occupied their flats post-fit out possession. 
 
 The bench, however, directed the developer to pay the nine homebuyers a token compensation of Rs 15,000 each for depriving them of their right to enjoy the amenities agreed for, but not provided so far. It acknowledged, as a “mitigating circumstance”, the developer’s case that construction of project had stopped from March 22, 2013 to March 1, 2017 for want of an environmental certificate.
 
 The bench also ordered the developer to pay an interest at the rate of 10.05% per annum on investments by six other homebuyers for every month of delay in completion of the project. These purchasers had not occupied their flats and, hence, were considered as not been given legal possession of the same yet. 
 
 The buyers invested between Rs 17 lakh and Rs 23 lakh for the flats — two of which were to be given possession by December 31, 2013, another two by June 30, 2015 and one each by January 31, 2014 and September 13, 2014. As such, the interest will apply on their individual investments from the date of delay in handing over possession of flat.
 
 Mahadeo   and 22 other homebuyers in the project had approached the MahaRERA bench in Mumbai complaining, among other things, that the developer had not completed the project even after promising them possession from December 2013 onwards and had violated the sanctioned plan by constructing balconies for 16 one BHK flats. 
 
 They complained that the developer did not provide the promised amenities and facilities like an approach road connecting the Pune-Mumbai highway with the project and internal roads. 
 
 The developer had countered these allegations by submtting that the delay was on account of the process for grant of environmental clearance and that all steps to speed up the project have been taken after getting the nod and a revised plan was submitted for approval in relation to the balconies of 1BHK flats. 
 
 The bench, however, observed that these balconies were constructed without prior sanction of the competent authority and without the consent of the allottees. As such, the developer had violated section 14 of the RERA Act, which deals with adherence to sanctioned plans and project specifications by the promoter. The regulatory authority ordered the developer to remove the balconies of these 1BHK flats.
 
 On the approach road from Pune-Mumbai highway to the project, the bench directed the developer to provide the same before the project is completed. Complainant Nalawade said, “The bench has not specified any time frame for this.” 
 
 The bench took on record the assurances given by the developer for providing internal roads within a month and amenities such as swimming pool, club house, children play area, tree plantation and street lights in next four months. Besides, completion of finishing works of buildings by end of March; setting up of a water treatment plant, solar water heater plant and other amenities. The bench also imposed a cost of Rs 20,000 on the developer, to be paid to the complainants. 
 
 
