NEW DELHI/LUCKNOW:   (AAP) on Saturday called the Election Commission’s recommendation to the   to disqualify 20 of its   in an alleged office-of-profit case “an attempt to please PM Narendra Modi”. 

 “It is a parting gift to Modi by chief election commissioner A K Joti, who is retiring on January 23,” AAP’s Delhi convener,  , said at the party headquarters. Claiming that Joti is a bureaucrat known as one of the closest aides of Modi, Rai said, “The CEC has misused the powers of his office.” The commission’s recommendation, concerning the row over appointment of the MLAs as   in early 2015, is binding on the President. 
 
 In Lucknow, Sanjay Singh said that if the high court cancelled the MLAs’ membership, it would be going against its own order where it had rejected their appointment as parliamentary secretaries, saying the same hadn’t been cleared by the LG. “How can a cancelled appointment be considered an office of profit,” said Singh.
 
 AAP has approached the high court and if the verdict is not favourable, it will approach the Supreme Court, said Singh. “If the verdict there is also against us, we have no option but to prepare for another election.”
 
 Discussing the political implications of a possible byelection, Singh said that if BJP attempted to topple the Delhi Government, it would be suicidal for it. “Everyone has seen to what extent BJP has bullied and harassed a legally elected government for three years.” 
 
 Rai accused EC of being “partisan and biased” as it did not allow the MLAs to present their cases. “Even under the oppressive British rule, no matter was decided without hearing both sides.” He claimed that though EC had said on June 23, 2017 that the poll panel would hear the MLAs, none was called.
 
 The party is sticking to its stand that these MLAs did not enjoy any benefit from their appointment and claimed that even the use of a vehicle was allowed only when the parliamentary secretary was out on official work. The MLAs have challenged BJP and Congress, both seeking resignation of CM Arvind Kejriwal over the issue, to prove that they had accepted even negligible benefits as parliamentary secretaries.
 
 “Allotment of offices in the assembly by the speaker and that by the government are two separate issues. The government has not allocated any office to the parliamentary secretaries. Inside the assembly, it is the prerogative of the speaker to allocate space to a person,” Singh said.
 
 Accusing the Centre of “selectively targeting the party under a political vendetta”, he said many similar posts had been taken out of the ambit of office of profit through retrospective laws. “This was done even in the time of former Delhi CM Sheila Dikshit.”
 
 An AAP functionary claimed that the governments in Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan, Himachal Pradesh, Gujarat and Chhatisgarh had appointed parliamentary secretaries who were enjoying various benefits. 
 
 
