NEW DELHI: In a late night  , three hardcore   were   by an alert   after a scuffle at  , central Delhi, early on Monday. 

 The incident occurred at 2.30am. An inspector from Ranjit Nagar police station was on night patrol. In a drive to reduce the number of petty crimes in the area, DCP (central) Mandeep Singh Randhawa had formed a special team led by ACP (Patel Nagar)Goons in SUV hit autoRohit Rajbir Singh to set up barricades on busy roads and dark stretches. A barricade near a movie theatre at Patel Nagar was placed and a few policemen were posted there as inspector Surender Kumar went out on a round. 
 
 When he returned, he saw a Scorpio coming from Karol Bagh ramming an autorickshaw that was parked alongside the road, barely 100 metres away from where he was standing. The autorickshaw driver was sleeping inside and he called out for help as his head hit an iron rod. A few policemen rushed to help him while others signalled the SUV driver to stop. But instead of slowing down, the car took a sharp left and sped towards Ranjit Nagar. 
 
 Inspector Kumar, sensing something amiss, decided to give chase in his patrol car. The SUV was signalled to stop many times, but the driver didn’t and drove on dangerously, hitting many vehicles. PCR was alerted and two other patrol cars joined the chase. Eventually, the SUV was stopped and three occupants were arrested. They were identified as Harish (26), Aman (19) and Vipin (24)—all of them Shakurpur residents. A country-made pistol with live rounds, and three fake car numberplates of different states were found on them, said a senior police officer. The trio used such numberplates every time they went out to commit a crime to dodge detection. 
 
 It was also found that they had several cases of murder and dacoity against them. 
 
 Police said Harish was previously involved in more than a dozen cases of murder, robbery, extortion and attempt to murder. He told the police that he along with Aman and Vipin usually robbed passersby by attacking them at vulnerable spots. They would replace the SUV’s genuine numberplate with a spurious one in order to dodge detection. After they had committed a crime, they would put back the original numberplate. 
 
 
