PATNA: Patna   (PU) on Wednesday issued a notification with details of the students’ union elections to be held on February 17. The last polls were held in December, 2012.

 “Altogether 20,000 students will elect their leaders through secret voting. We have written to the state election office for supplying ballot boxes for polling,” vice-chancellor Rash Bihari Prasad Singh said.
 
 PU history department head   has been appointed the chief election officer. While principals will act as the election officers in their respective colleges, deans of faculties will be the election officers in their respective faculties. PU geology department head Kriteshwar Prasad, geography department head   and humanities’ dean Akhilanand Tripathi have been appointed election officers of science, social science and humanities faculties, respectively. Education faculty dean   will serve as the election officer of education, commerce and law faculties.
 
 The code of conduct for elections came into effect with the official notification issued on Wednesday. The draft electoral roll will be published on February 2 and the final electoral roll on February 5.
 
 Nomination for various offices of the union will be filed on February 7 and 8. Scrutiny of nomination papers will be held on February 9 and the list of final candidates published the same day. Withdrawal of nominations will be accepted till 3pm on February 10, followed by the publication of final list of contestants. Polling will be held from 8am to 2pm on February 17, followed by counting of votes and declaration of results.
 
 There will be direct election on all the five key posts, including those of president, vice-president, secretary, joint secretary and treasurer. Besides, class representatives in colleges and postgraduate departments will be elected by the electorate of the respective constituencies. There will be one representative for 1,000 students in different constituencies. All these representatives along with the five office bearers will form the union cabinet.
 
 
