LUCKNOW: The overall pass percentage in the   — one of the world’s biggest examinations — has dipped sharply due to stringent anti-copying measures taken up by the state administration. This year the number of students skipping the exam also rose to 11.3 lakh from 5.4 lakh recorded in 2017.

 As per results announced on Sunday, the pass percentages for class X went down from 81.2% in 2017 to 75.2% and from 82.6% in 2017 to 72.4 for class XII. This year’s class X pass percentage is lowest in the last six years, while the class XII pass percentage is lowest since 2009.
 
 This year the government installed CCTV cameras at exam rooms, roped in STF to crack down on mafia, made Aadhaar mandatory for invigilators, numbered answer copies and frisked students, to check cheating.
 
  from Allahabad topped class X exam with 96.3% marks, while   from   and Akash Maurya from   shared the top position in class XII with 93.2%.
 
 Afarmer’s daughter, Anjali said: “We are not from a well-off family but my father bought me every book I wanted.” Akash, who is the son of an auto driver, came to collect his result in a three-wheeler driven by his father.
 
 In class X, Yashavi from Fatehpur, stood second by scoring 94.5%, while Vinay Kumar Verma from Sitapur and Shani Verma from Gonda jointly shared the third position by scoring 94.2%. In class XII, Ananya Rai from Ghazipur stood second by scoring 92.6%, and   from Moradabad and Ajeet Patel from Barabanki secured third rank with 92.2%.
 
 Figures released by the UPSEB showed that 36.6 lakh candidates registered for class X exam. Of this, 30.3 lakh appeared, and 22.7 lakh passed the examination. In class XII, 29.8 lakh had registered for the exam, of which 26 lakh took the exam and 18.9 of the passed the examination.
 
 “The pass percentage has declined this year, which shows that only serious students took the exams. The deployment of STF personnel at examination centres and use of CCTV cameras during exams and evaluation helped us get rid of students who had registered with bogus names,” UPSEB director AN Sharma said.
 
 Congratulating successful students, chief minister Yogi Aditynath said, “I am happy that such a good result has come. This time all the exams were held without any complaints of cheating.”
 
 Former chief minister Akhilesh Yadav announced free laptops for toppers. “We’ll encourage the meritorious students, top 11 in the merit list of class X and XII by giving them free laptops,” his tweet said.
 
