LUDHIANA: Police on Tuesday produced Nabha jail break accused Harminder Singh   before a local court in a case of recovery of explosives from Jagraon area in 2008. The accused has already recorded his statement in the case before the court of additional sessions Judge Anjana on March 1.

 Giving details, counsel for   said he was produced before the court in a criminal conspiracy case registered at Sadar police station. The defence counsel added that on June 17, 2008, the police had recovered 25 detonators along with fuse and 196 rods of explosive substances from Akhara village. He said Mintoo was booked on the confessional statement of one of the accused in the case Manpreet Singh, who was later acquitted by the court, and on Tuesday he had made a final argument in the case and the court order is expected on March 20.
 
 Manjhpur said Mintoo was brought by police from Central Jail, Patiala, to appear in the hearing. He added that police has failed to produce evidence against him in the case.
 
 Mintoo’s counsel said two of the accused in the case had been convicted, three acquitted and two to three are proclaimed offenders in the case.
 
 On March 5, a Mohali-based special   court had remanded chief of Khalistan Liberation Force ( ) Harminder Singh Mintoo, one of the escapees in the Nabha jailbreak of November 2016, to four-day custody of the investigating agency.
 
 The NIA moved an application before the court that it needed to interrogate Mintoo in connection with the murder of RSS leader Ravinder Gosain, who had been shot dead by two unidentified persons in October 2017, outside the main gate of his house in Gagandeep Colony in Jodhewal area of Ludhiana.
 
 Initially, the Punjab Police had registered a case under sections 302 (murder) and 34 (common intent) of the IPC along with the Arms Act and various sections of the Prevention of Unlawful Activities Act at Jodhewal police station. They had also interrogation Ramandeep Singh and Hardeep Singh Shera, who are other prime accused in seven targeted killings of Punjab, and pieced together evidence that suggested that Mintoo was also involved in the case. Later, the investigations were handed over to the NIA which had registered a corresponding case on November 16, last year.
 
 
