LUDHIANA:   security forces, yet to wake up to the warning signals from the intelligence wings for the Republic Day, have failed to establish proper security checks at the entrance of the city railway station. Thousands of commuters enter the station premises and security can be at stake if proper checking is not done. 

 To make matters worse, several unmanned entrances across the city railway station have belied the tall claims of the local railway authorities vis-a-vis security security of the passengers as they have become favourite spots for unauthorised passengers and vendors as well.
 
 Apart from that, the city station lacks safety equipments from Metal detectors to X rays machines to keep a vigil on luggages of passengers. Even some of the   cameras are also also lying non-functional that exposes the ‘real intent’ of authorities towards passenger safety. 
 
 According to station officials, “Approximately 70 to 80 trains carrying about 60-70 thousand passengers arrive or depart from   station on a regular basis. But during the summer vacation when northern railway authorities run special trains the footfall reaches 80,000. In the absence of any proper safety measures, the station is bound to be vulnerable to attacks.”
 
 Sources meanwhile pointed out that lack of coordination among officials led to technical snags in metal detectors earlier placed at the entrance of the station. They were sent to the headquarters two months back for renovation,” they added. 
 
 Inderjeet Singh, in charge GRP, Ludhiana, said, “Within days all safety equipments will be installed on the station premises to counter any possibility of mishaps in the coming days. Railway security forces are also giving proper attention to safety measures with day and night patrolling by local officials to maintain peace and harmony on the station premises.”
 
 Remove illegal hoarding at Railway boundaries
 
 Divisional commercial manager of Ferozepur Division, Vivek Kumar has instructed local officials to remove all illegal hoardings which have been defacing the Railway boundary walls for the past many years. Numerous hoardings with messages like Happy New Year, Happy Lohri and others inundate boundary walls without any permission of the railway authorities.
 
 
