 was in Chennai on Friday for a promotional event. This being the first interaction with the media after his comeback to   (CSK) as its captain for the upcoming  , he was so kicked about fielding questions on how the team is shaping up, the probable names in the team, after auction, and more, that it turned out to be a fun interaction. And oh, not to mention his new punk haircut! Excerpts.

 
 Our biggest strength has always been our fans. I am not talking about fans in Chennai or Tamil Nadu alone, but around the globe. As CSK, we’ve enjoyed a great fan following, irrespective of where we’ve played. So, that area is covered. But the challenge is to start everything from scratch — fresh auction, who will we get, whether we will get the core team or not... But as far as the team composition is considered, we’ve retained three players — keeper, two batsmen, who can also bowl. So, a lot of it is sorted. Who will we get in the auction — that’s slightly difficult to say right now because it all depends on who we will be able to afford. What I mean by that is we need to build a good team with a minimum of 18 to 19 players and not just the playing 11. That’s why I say that we’ve to keep emotions aside and go for the auction. We may want a particular player, but if his price goes up, we may not be able to afford him. And if we put in all the money on one player, we may not be able to build a complete side. Generally, players who have already played for CSK are targeted by other teams also, and therefore their bidding price at the auction will also shoot up.
 
  
 In the last two years, though we didn’t play, our fan following has only gotten stronger because none of the players were involved in anything. All the players were cleared of all controversies. And now, we’re back to playing  . Of course, it did hurt us when the team was not part of the league for two seasons, but apart from that our fan following has only increased. 
 On Ashwin’s inclusion… 
 We will definitely go for him in the auction. But as I said, we don’t know till what margin we can go. We’ve the right-to-match option, but again we can’t use that for Ashwin as we’ve already retained three Indian players. So, we’ve to buy him out in the auction. He might be the key player for us, but we’ve to wait and watch. 
 
 
 You know, I was never a captain before I captained Indian cricket team. So, that itself answers the question. Again, a wicket keeper is always a ‘vice-captain’. He’s somebody who watches the game closely, understands the way the bowler is bowling, the pace of the wicket, how the batsman is batting... So, it’s not a difficult job. Before some of us wicketkeepers took up the job as captains, it was considered, ‘Oh! He already has too much burden. Why to burden the keeper more?’ But stats have proved that wicketkeepers have been very good captains because they analyse the game very well. But again, you need to have a good team and then you can manure the resources. If the resources are not good, no matter who the captain is, be it Ricky Ponting or Steve Waugh or any of the other great captains, no use.
 
 
 Let’s take the positive side of the tour. To win a Test match, we need to take 20 wickets. We’ve taken 20 wickets. Irrespective of whether we play in India or abroad, we need to take 20 wickets to win a match. And we are doing that. That’s the biggest positive. It means that we’re almost in a position to win Test match. Once we start scoring runs, we’re there.
 
 
 For me, what works is the unorthodox keeping style I’ve got. A lot of it needs to be done in the mind. We can always argue the fact that technique helps to get you back to form when you go through a tough patch. But at the same time, you have to adapt and should know your limitations. In the history of cricket, there should have been at least one batsman who’s so good with technique that he never got out — but there’s none. We all keep committing mistakes. Cricket is the only game which has no perfection because in all other sports, you are rewarded according to how you play. Table tennis, you’ve to hit within the table or badminton, you’ve to play within the court. It’s only in cricket that you hit to the front, but the ball goes behind and still you get a four or six. It’s a very simple game, but we make it complicated. Knowing your limitation is more important than striving to achieve perfection. It works for me. But as an individual, you’ve to figure out what works for you. So, be honest with that.
 
