Coimbatore: The Tamil Nadu government will provide aviation fuel tax concession for airlines to increase the connectivity during late night and early morning hours in Coimbatore International Airport, said chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Thursday.

 Coimbatore International Airport handles 40 arrivals and 40 departures (including international connectivity) every day. The airport has eight parking bays. Air India, Air India Express, Indigo, Jet Airways, Air Arabia, Silk Air and Sri Lankan Airlines are operating flights to various destinations in the country and Sharjah, Singapore and Colombo. But none of the aircraft is parked at the airport during night hours.
 
 To increase the flight connectivity from Coimbatore to various parts of the country, the state government has decided to provide concession on aviation fuels at the airport. As of now, the state government is collecting 29% of Value Added Tax (VAT) on aviation fuels. After the implementation of the tax concession, the number of base flights will be increased, and the operators would provide connectivity to various parts from Coimbatore in the early hours and late night. To attract the flight service providers, the state government collected just one percent of VAT on aviation fuels in Salem airport.
 
 According to sources, the state government also planned to reduce 29% VAT to 1% on aviation fuels at Coimbatore, Madurai and Trichy airports soon.
 
 The sources added that the state government has been collecting one percent VAT on aviation fuels at Salem airport for the flights which were parked during night hours at the airport.
 
 R Mahalingam, airport director, Coimbatore International Airport said that this announcement would attract many flight operators and the flight operations from Coimbatore airport would be increasing in the early morning and late night hours.
 
 “We have eight parking pays now at the airport. At least five aircraft can be parked at a time and rest of the three parking pays would be used for regular traffic during night hours. If the tax has been reduced on aviation fuel, then many flights will be parked at the airport during night hours and the flights will start its service in the early morning to various destinations. We can send easily perishable goods to the early morning flights. This would help to increase the number of passengers,” said Mahalingam.
 
 
