If you've watched   24's latest  : Homecoming, you'd know what it means for the WWE Hall of Famer to have finally returned 'home' after 11 years. Ever since he was named General Manager of   the night after WrestleMania, it was obvious that it the GM storyline was WWE's way of preparing a nice long build-up for his in-ring return.

 
 The original plans was for Kurt to mark his return match was scheduled for Wrestlemania 34, but the recent angle (no pun intended), where the two-time WWE champion has been seen indulging in weird text messages (along with announcer  ) for weeks, is an indication towards something more than just one Mania match. During the closing segment of last week's Raw, Kurt, taking to a mystery individual over the phone, said they would reveal 'it' together next week. 
 
 Which brings us to the question? Who is this individual and in what capacity will he/she affect Angle's in-ring return? Ever since Kurt said 'I Love You' over the phone, speculations have been plenty. It's been a while that the WWE came up with something as interesting and curiosity-driven as this and it's what makes Kurt's return storyline pretty exciting.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 WWE has a tendency to re-ignite old storylines and let's face it, the love-triangle between Kurt, Stephanie and   from the year 2000 was quite amazing. The boss' daughter sandwiched between the Game and a nerdy Kurt even though they kept saying they're just friends. So 17 years later, here is how it plays out. Notice how Graves mentions to Kurt that he is respected by all, and that his revelation will eventually be pardoned. So Stephanie marks her television return since going through a table at Mania 33, and Kurt discloses their relationship to the world. Add to that an irate Triple H and it automatically sets up a match between the two at Summerslam; stipulation being that if the Game wins, Kurt is done with the WWE once and for all and if it's the other way around, Kurt replaces Triple H in the authority.
 
 
  As tempting as it may sound, it is absolutely absurd. And here is why. Triple H and Stephanie are 12 years into their marriage with three kids and remain extremely protected in terms of image in the company. Triple H once said during an interview that one of the reasons why the WWE has stayed clear of mentioning Chyna (Joannie Laurer) (and her association with the adult film industry) is that he will not have the answers to potential questions his kids might ask him about her. In all of this, it makes zero sense for the mother of the same children being involved in an affair with another man. This storyline would have made sense between 2006 and 2009, but not in today's era where there is a thin line between kayfabe and storytelling.
 
 
 
 
 As far-fetched as it may seem, it makes a lot of sense. Kurt was with the Carter-owned franchise TNA (Total Non-Stop action) for 11 years (more than his time with the WWE) and during some point, the two developed mutual feelings for each other. What if Carter walks down the ramp and Kurt reveals that it is in fact her who is now the love of his life and that his aim was to return to the WWE to eventually grant Carter a place in the hierarchy? (Notice how the respect angle fits well in all this since Kurt is a married man with five children). This is an ideal set-up for a battle of power between Kurt and Triple H at Summerslam. If Angle wins, Carter stays. If not, both are banished. This theory gets more legitimacy after former WWE GM Eric Bischoff mentioned such a possibility during a recent podcast. 
 
 
  Why not? Sure the WWE does not fancy mentioning their rivals but Carter is no longer associated with TNA. She even recently appeared on the Network exclusive so it clearly means WWE don't mind having Carter appearing on shows. If this is the case however, there is no guarantee that the match may happen at Summerslam and it may lead to an expansion of storyline culminating into an Angle-Triple H match at WrestleMania. In the meantime, WWE can even revoke the Invasion angle with Samoa Joe, AJ Styles, Bobby Roode (NXT champion), Eric Young and Angle himself (once TNA guys) taking on WWE guys - Kevin Owens, Big Cass, Finn Balor, Free Agent John Cena and Triple H in a traditional five-on-five match at Survivor Series.
 
 
 
 
 Remember the weird interview involving Bayley and Graves a few weeks back? Chances are that Bayley is aware of one of Kurt's dark secret and is possibly blackmailing the Raw GM is some capacity. Factor in Graves' constant concern towards Angle and the weird expression the former NXT tag-team champion had on his face. Also remember how generous Kurt was towards Bayley while granting her the "Kendo stick on a Pole" match against Alexa Bliss at Payback and how Bayley lost the match without putting up a fight. What if all these elements result into Bayley knowing something about Kurt he doesn't want anyone to know?
 
 
  Bayley had been horribly booked since successfully defending her Women's title at Mania 33. She even admitted during a Stone Cold podcast that her character needs a fresh change and she has an idea just how to do it. This may be the ideal scenario for Bayley to turn heel and blackmail Kurt on her way to the top of the women's division. The one thing that remains an uncertainty in this case however is Kurt's in-ring return. 
 
 
 
 
 Kurt in the past has had plenty of issues, the most controversial being his issues related to substance abuse. Although he has come clean, what if during his troubled time he did something that is unacceptable by WWE's standards today. The possibilities can be many: an accident, violation of some law, or even him being jailed. Graves, being an investigative journalist, got down to the bottom of the matter. Remember how Kurt mentioned that if he goes public with it, this might spell the end of his career. If that is any indication to go by, do not rule out the possibility of Kurt's troubled past coming back to cost him his position as Raw GM.
 
 
  WWE has never used terms such as drugs and substance abuse, and they never will. But they can definitely cover it with different terms and indicate that it was Kurt's wrong doings in the past that can no longer allow him being the RAW GM. In this case, those text messages could be from none other than Triple H, leading to a Summerslam match with Kurt's job on the line.
 
