BHUBANESWAR: In September last year, BJP president  , during his visit to the state, had presented the party's ambitious 'Mission 120 plus' plan. The aggressive pitch was aimed at capturing 120 of the 147 assembly seats and oust the BJD from power in the 2019 election. As a first step to that magic number stood the landmark called Bijepur. The death of  's Subal Sahu had necessitated a bypoll. It was a platform to test BJP's grand design. 

 For this the party was banking on the anti-incumbency factor. The BJD has been in power for 18 years now and the saffron outfit hoped it would translate into public anger, and in turn, votes. 
 
 But in the midst the party must have forgotten   himself, and the part that he has not been in power - since 2000 - for nothing. The landslide victory in Bijepur once again showed that despite all the criticisms,   continues to enjoy immense popularity among the voters.
 
 But there was some consolation for the BJP though. The party has not only doubled the votes it received, but also increased its vote share - from 18.1% in 2014 to 33.5% now. It may still be struggling to find a way to dislodge Naveen from power, but it has well and truly elbowed out Congress from the principal opposition's chair in the state.
 
 "In the battle for the number two position between the BJP and the Congress, the saffron outfit has taken the edge following its performance in the bypoll and last year's panchayat election," said Amareshwar Mishra, a retired professor of political science from Utkal University.
 
 While BJP candidate Ashok Panigrahy polled 60,939 votes as against 1,02,871 by BJD's Rita Sahu, Congress nominee Pranay Sahu had to lose his deposit, managing just 10,274 votes in a constituency the party had won for three successive terms. 
 
 Political analysts feel Naveen played his cards well by nominating Rita Sahu, widow of Subal, as its candidate in Bijepur. It helped the party get the sympathy votes even as Naveen's pre-poll sops took the wind away from the rivals. 
 
 The BJP did try its best. Led by Union minister Dharmendra Pradhan, the party campaigned hard for the bypoll, the result of which is evident in it doubling its vote share from the 30,001 it had garnered in 2014. It's just that the party may not have factored in the Naveen effect which looks to become decisive when the assembly polls come calling.
 
 
