KOLKATA: The   will review a   that had ostensibly been rejected on gender grounds as officials are apparently in a dilemma over what to do if she insisted on declaring herself a female.

 The applicant called the apparent predicament prejudicial; activists and lawyers termed it farcical and in contempt of  .
 
 
  
 Born Sandeep, a male, the applicant had changed her name legally to Sandeepta, a female, in 2016. The freelance designer even got all her ID documents — Aadhaar, voter’s card, PAN—revised. But she was stumped when passport officials refused to acknowledge her as a woman and insisted she declared herself a “male” or “belonging to the other sex” in the absence of a sex reassignment surgery (SRS) report. “I said I considered myself female and had legally changed to one but the officials refused to see reason. When I asked them to show the rule where transgenders could not declare themselves male or female without an SRS report, they could not do so,” she said. “It is sad officials in such positions continue to take crucial decisions that can affect another person’s life, based on their perceptions.”
 
 Following the allegation of being humiliated for seeking a passport—her fundamental right—regional passport officer Bibhuti Bhushan Kumar claimed the applicant was not denied a passport but was asked to return with required documents. “The applicant can come for a fresh interview. If any of our staff members berated her for her gender, it should not have happened. I am told her papers were not in place. When she comes, her case will be reviewed,” said Kumar, adding the staff were trained in rules.
 
 But Sandeepta claimed she had all the relevant documents, including the affidavit from a first class magistrate, declaring Sandeep Das, a male, was now Sandeepta Das, a female; newspaper ad announcing the name and sex change; Aadhaar card; voter card; and PAN card. “I can’t produce an SRS report because I did not undergo the surgery,” she said. She has consulted her lawyer on a possible legal recourse to get a passport.
 
 Advocate Kaushik Gupta said the passport officials were in contempt of SC, citing the National Legal Services Authority vs Union of India verdict, 2014 . “The passport office people are acting this way because of their ignorance. In 2014, SC passed the NALSA judgment and gave nine directions in paragraph 129. The passport officials have violated the directions. If Sandeepta moves HC, she will get remedy,” he said.
 
 Ratnaboli Ray, mental health activist who works on gender issues, said the passport office reflected the notion of biological determinism. “For them to understand gender fludity is beyond imagination. Seeking SRS from an applicant is condemnable,” she said.
 
