GURUGRAM: A section of residents of Sector 28 have alleged that the municipal corporation and   are dragging their feet on clearing a   created illegally by villagers in the middle of houses in 2009.

 The residents said that the authorities were yet to take any action on the ground despite a 2013 high court order directing that the cremation ground be shifted elsewhere. A district grievance committee formed last year had also directed the authorities to find an alternative land but little has been done to shift the cremation ground, the residents alleged.
 
 Huda had in December 2001 allotted residential plots in Sector 28 based on a draw of lots, following which the allottees started building homes. 
 
 The residents alleged that in 2009, some villagers of Chakkarpur illegally turned three vacant plots — 324, 325 and 326 — into a cremation ground. Although the owners of the three plots were given alternative land to build homes, the authorities didn’t do much to shift the cremation ground, apparently because of the sensitivity of the issue.
 
 The residents said the cremation ground was an oddity in the middle of homes. 
 
 “Nobody will want a cremation ground right next to where they are living,” said  , a resident.
 
 “This cremation ground is like an island wedged between the houses surrounding it. This is really a cause for concern,” said Suchita Dalal, another resident. “A foul smells from this place.”
 
 The Sector 28 Residents Welfare Association had in 2010 moved Punjab Haryana High Court seeking directions that the cremation ground be shifted. The court had in 2013 given the authorities three months to shift the cremation ground.
 
 “The residents also complained to the chief minister in 2016, following which a district grievance committee chaired by the then deputy commissioner was formed last year. The committee directed that the site for the new   be expanded to the nearby vacant land belonging to water works department,” Chauhan said. “The plan was also approved by Huda on December 15, 2017.”
 
 The Sector 28 residents said they were still waiting for the cremation ground to be shifted to the new Shamshan site.
 
 “This would be in accordance with the guidelines of the district grievance committee and the high court’s directive,” one of the residents said.
 
 Huda estate officer   said the shifting of the cremation ground had already been approved and would happen at the earliest. “We will make that happen amicably as soon as possible,” he said.
 
 
