It’s 9am and Sathya, a resident of Pallavaram, receives a message on his smartphone from an end-to-end travel planner, that reads, ‘Good morning, boss. Your shared cab will reach your location at 9:05am. You will be dropped at the   station by 9:15am. And you can board the first train towards T Nagar at 9:20am. You will reach T Nagar at 9:40am. Considering today’s traffic, the best option for you is to take a shared cycle from the station to the office. You will reach your destination at 9:50am. Start location: Home, Destination: Office; Total travelling time: 50 mins.’ Sathya gets this message daily...
Well, this could be possible in the next few years. For, as we listen in, a few experts brief us on how the transportation system is going to make a remarkable change by the next decade.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 According to experts in the transportation field, the extension of   rail and execution of the proposed Bus Rapid Transit System (BRTS) will play a key role in the city’s transportation system in the coming years. “Chennai will be a city where high-quality mass rapid transit is only at a walking distance from everywhere. With about 100km of phase-2 Metro, 100km of BRTS (which is currently in Detailed Project Report phase) and more than 130km of existing rail (including suburban rail, MRTS and phase-1 Metro), the city will have a vast network of about 330km of high-quality mass transit,” says Aswathy Dilip, from the Institute for Transportation and Development Policy (ITDP).
 
 Agreeing with Aswathy, another expert, founder of an urban transportation infrastructure planning agency in Chennai, on condition of anonymity, says, “There will be a vast network of Metro rail and also complementary network of BRTS, so that people can use mass rapid system from one point to another. Along with that, the integration of multi-modern facilities like pedestrian tracks, toilets, comfortable seating areas and para-transit system is going to make a big difference.” Confirming the expansion of Metro, MD of CMRL, Pankaj Kumar Bansal, says, “Ten years hence, I see a network of more than 200km of operational Metro rail in Chennai, connecting the core city to suburban areas with the fastest, secure and most comfortable   system. With a mobile phone or smart card, citizens will be able to travel in autos, share autos, buses, suburban rail and Metro seamlessly. The same card can also be used for parking and shopping as well.”
  
  
 
 Adds the expert, “Just like how Ola and Uber functions, the next big revolution in the public transport system will be para-transit and last-mile connectivity. There will be more such service providers with better facilities. Today, though you have the Metro, the stations are 2-3kms away from your house or office. So, what we’re going to see is the introduction of last-mile connectivity and para transit options. The good thing is that with more people using smartphones, today, we will see the same concept of tracking rides and routes even in the case of share autos. That’s one of the cheapest and most convenient modes of transport. I am sure there will be fancier versions of share autos with AC and much more comfortable seating. In some time, there will be share autos with GPS connectivity and you will be able to track their movements. So, you can step out of your house or office accordingly and not stand in the hot sun waiting for them. Same goes with buses as well. It’s an old concept, something that is already been there in cities like Bangalore, where buses are tracked using GPS. We are yet to see that happen in Chennai, but it’s something that’s definitely in the offing.”
 
 Meanwhile, Narayanan Natarajan, who had done transportation surveys in the city and worked for auto fare regulation,says, “I guess the government already introduced a few such buses a few years ago. It is of great use when it gives notifications like the seat availability, running status, etc.” 
 
 
 
 “There will be something like an air-conditioned standing-only vehicle and where passengers can get down at a distance of every 1km or less than that. Also, like in Bangalore, motorbike sharing using QR code and OTP will be introduced here soon. There will also be end-to-end planners. If you feed in your destination, the app will tell you which mode of transportation is easier and cheaper on a particular day or tell you if a combination like that of a share auto, Metro and shared cycle will work best for you that day or should try some other combination. A lot of entrepreneurs are already trying out these kinds of services. Autonomous vehicles have already been tested in the west. If it comes here, it will make the sharing concept much more practical because there’s no driver and you can utilise more space that’s otherwise taken up by driver seat, steering wheel, gear box and all that. You can even have separate compartments for families or a group of people travelling together. With all such changes, even the shape of cars will be quite different from the ones we’ve today. And using artificial intelligence you can optimise things like picking up and dropping people at different destinations. This may also bring down the demand for private cars. So, the idea of shared driving will pick up further.” Narayanan adds, “I am hoping to see more AC buses. Though it was a failure thefirst time it was introduced in the city, if reintroduced and the buses are maintained properly, I am sure more people will switch to public transport. Earlier, I used to work in OMR and those I would see a lot of corporate people travelling on them. So, what we’re expecting to see is the increase in public transport usage will all these facilities.” 
  
 
 Yes, we are almost there with the introduction of cycling tracks in the city of late. Aswathy says, “All streets in the city will have well-shaded and continuous footpaths, uniform carriageways, and conveniently placed bus stops. Cyclists will be traversing through the city on shared cycles. In a few years, walking through pedestrianised T Nagar will be one-of-a-kind experience for a visitor to Chennai.” With cycling already picking up fast among fitness conscious and eco-friendly people, options to take cycles on public transport like buses and trains is what cycling enthusiasts like Ramanujar Moulana are expecting in the next few years. “Allowance to carry bicycles in the public transport system like MRTS, metro and   buses with provision for bike racks will be there soon. And that will further promote cycling by giving people the option to carry bicycle along with them to work and for other activities," he explains. 
 
 
