I keep reminding myself, in the face of much derision and cynical glee, that the Calcutta I live in is the same city I was born in, grew up in. More or less. Not in physical terms, but in the mental space it occupies, to put it inadequately. 
Physically, the city has undergone changes that sometimes gladden the heart and often, makes one weep in frustration. From flyovers to the concrete, glass and steel monsters that stand instead of elegant architecture, to the intentional ugliness of bureaucratically prettified garbage compacting sheds, to the visual apathy of blue and white paint on all governmental things inspiring rumours. These could well do with better design and sincere urban planning. Yet the city is definitely cleaner. Garbage collection seems to be on the tick. What is happening at the other end 
 is still not heartening, though there are indications of improvement. 
 The streets are even more crowded with motorised vehicles added on every day. Considering we only have 6% road space, that is a scary thought. But traffic flow is far better. The city’s one-way system has over the years become a way of life for those who use it. Other than impediments to traffic flow like michils (which too seem to have reduced), one can move fairly fast, given that fast is also a state of mind. I wonder why the rule of keeping vehicles of a certain age off the roads is not implemented rather more forcibly. 
 More and more street vendors have established themselves semi-permanently in their places of business. For many, it is also their hostelry. We can rave about the great street food of Calcutta, but when I look at the surroundings of these stalls, thoughts of hygiene, health and all that, encroach on my mind and I shy away. Tea, and maybe snacks like muri, phuchka, and such like are the most I will risk. The earlier attempt at giving all street food vendors training in maintaining more than a semblance of cleanliness and following up with them, seems to have now become just another anecdote of nostalgia.
 Nostalgia. That is a word that conjures up a feel-good factor for most people. For some, they make a living from it, while some live in it, refusing to accept inevitable change. Calcutta has the great quality of being able to evoke nostalgic reminiscing. With the motley colours of our history dominating this sense, few can escape it. Being of a certain vintage, with the acquired memories of others older, I know of a Calcutta that has changed to be this one. This Kolkata.
 I know of a Calcutta where people didn’t publicly and rudely ask why a certain community did not talk of secularism. The answer is, they did not have to. You ate biryani on Id, bhog at the puja pandal, laddus on  , Christmas cake. You ate egg akuri for breakfast one day at the Parsi guy’s house you went to school with, pork chowmein for lunch after returning from school on Willy Chen’s cycle, and beef kheeri rolls as a snack with all your friends in the evening. No one ever asked our faith. Or community. Just like no one ever asked if your dad brought home a 5-digit salary (big for those days), or if Bengali, Hindi or English was your mother tongue. No one cared since you could communicate in all three languages.
 History tells us that Bengal has been under varied ethnic and religious influence from time immemorial. The South Indians, Turks, Iranians, Europeans, you name it, they have all left their mark. Till the early years of the 17th century, Arabic and Farsi were the official languages of business and casual conversation in undivided Bengal. It was the Europeans and soon after, the English, with larger ambitions beyond trade and commerce, who gave Bangla the importance it deserved, bringing it out of the Brahmanical domain as well as dialect status to a standardised and formal state. The language we speak, read and write today, though it too has evolved. 
 It is not amusing therefore, to find almost militant-minded advocates of Bangla and Bengal for Bengalis, raising their noxious heads. Again. (Nostalgia provides the memory of a similar fringe outfit of those days called Amra Bangali). I agree that the overbearing attitude of the union government in Delhi and their intention of imposing a universal lingua franca of Hindi across the country is not to be tolerated. Yet, let us not forget that our past icons like Ram Mohan Roy, Ishwarchandra Vidyasagar, Michael Madhusudan Dutt, and a host of others, made sure they became absolutely proficient in the English language (and other languages), so that they could form their resistance to, and eventual independence from the foreign rulers.
 It makes total sense to me to be able to know Hindi so well as to pwn it. The Oxford Dictionary defines pwn as “...utterly defeat (an opponent or rival); completely get the better of”.
  is an English musician whose sound of folk music, punk rock and protest music left a huge impression in the late ’70s-’80s. He wants to bring about change and involve the younger generation in activist causes. An excerpt from his 2006 song Take down the Union Jack: ‘Take down the Union Jack/ It clashes with the sunset/ And put it in the attic with the emperor’s old clothes/ When did it fall apart?/ Sometime in the eighties/ When the great and the good gave way/ To the greedy and the mean’.
 To reach the author, write to patrick.ghose@gmail.com.
 
