NEW DELHI: The figures for those killed on the roads in India came down by 4,560 or 3% in 2017 from 1.51 lakh the previous year, the Supreme Court Committee on Road Safety said in a report to the apex court on Wednesday. 

 While  ,   and   have done well,  , Uttar Pradesh, Odisha and   have reported more deaths.
 
  
  
 
 The data shows the number of fatalities increased in the October-December period, which proved to be a spoiler to the projection of the total reduction in fatalities by more than 5,000 during the calendar year which saw 1,46,377 lives lost on the roads. 
 
 Till September last year, the fall in total road deaths was 5,003. Sources said this shows how there is a need to have continuous and concerted efforts to check fatalities due to road accidents.
 
 The data submitted by the SC panel under Justice (retd) K S Radhakrishanan show that maximum decline in terms of absolute number was reported from   which saw deaths come down by 1,061 last year in comparison to 2016, while percentage wise the steepest decline was in Punjab at 15.7%. 
 
 Only four states and one Union Territory have reported increase in fatalities with others recording minor or major reduction in the number of road deaths. 
 
 Uttar Pradesh has again recorded the maximum number of road fatalities of over 20,000 during last year. Delhi has reported reduction of only seven deaths in 2017 in comparison to the previous year while Chandigarh has recorded 44 less deaths.
 
 The analysis of data also throws up some interesting observations. While Punjab saw sharp decline in accidents and deaths where ban on sale of liquor on highways is in force, Bihar saw maximum increase (in percentage terms) despite there being complete prohibition in the state. 
 
 "Road accidents and fatalities are due a host of reasons. Since we have no proper analysis and investigation of road deaths, it's impossible to zero down on any particular reason. The government must ensure proper investigation of fatal crashes," said K K Kapila of International Road Federation.
 
 These details have come out just before the Parliament is scheduled to take up discussion on the Motor Vehicles Amendment Bill with provisions of higher fine and stricter penalty against the traffic rule violators.
 
 India has the highest number of road deaths across the globe and one in every 10 deaths is reported from India.
 
 
