Of late, quite a few well-known names from Bollywood and Marathi industry have made their   debut. But now the trend of web series is getting quite popular among the young city filmmakers and aspiring actors too. As a result, quite a few web series are being made in the city. We trace this emerging trend...
  can be made on a shoestring budget and there is no censorship. These are some of the prime reasons why web shows are gaining popularity in the city. A student of Institute of Forensic Sciences, Shweta Umre, who is all set to make her debut in web series says, “ It is the most effective medium and quite challenging too. You have only a few minutes to convey your message. And because there’s no censorship, various sensitive issues like homosexuality, domestic abuse etc. can be raised and brought to the notice of young viewers.”
 Piyush Pande, who directed Hindi film Mike (2015), has forayed into the world of web series with Drishtibhram, to gain a different experience. “Viewers of web series are mostly millennials. The number of audience for this medium is growing. Firstly because the internet is easily accessible and secondly it gives a much needed breather to the youngsters from those run-of-the-mill telly sagas,” says he, adding, “Our show will be a series of nine webisodes and is a thriller. We will shoot at various locations in Nagpur.”
 Another web show maker, Ashwini Asarkar, who directed Fatal memories last year, feels web series help city artistes gain exposure. “There are many theatre artistes and aspiring actors in the city who are waiting for a good opportunity, but there are hardly avenues available for them. Through web series, they get to showcase their acting acumen. Since web shows are being made in city now, artistes do not have to travel to other cities to search for work,” says she.
 Seconding this thought,   student Shruti Dhoot, who has been part of two web series, says that the reason so many youngsters are hooked to web series these days is that the subjects of these films are quite relatable. She goes on to add, “The tech savvy generation is constantly in search of something new online. I personally like to watch many international web shows. Also, as an actor, I get to work on diverse subjects that concern youngsters.”
 
