PANAJI: After the prosecution failed to prove that the narcotic substance was in the possession of the accused, the sessions court,   acquitted Sagar Pomburfekar, a resident of  , who was arrested for possessing cocaine and charas in 2011, in Morjim.

 While giving him the benefit of doubt, the court also held that the police did not comply with the requirements of the   Act. The charge against the accused was that on February 10, 2011, PSI   along with his staff were on patrolling duty, and at about 11.05pm when they reached near Bagwada, Morjim, they noticed a person wearing a red colour T-shirt and white short pants standing near a supermarket in a suspicious manner.
 
 On seeing the police jeep, he started running away. He was chased by the police and apprehended. Upon questioning, he disclosed that he had come to sell drugs. Raut then sent one of his police staff to fetch the drug detection kit and seal. He sent another police personnel to secure two panchanama witnesses.
 
 After the two police officers returned, the officer conducted the panchanama and prepared the seizure memo. During the panchanama, charas and cocaine were recovered from the person of the accused.
 
 “The station diary dated February 10, 2011, does not mention that the seal was taken on February 10, 2011. That means there is no documentary evidence recorded in the station diary or the seal movement register to show that such a seal was taken out of the police station on February 10, 2011,” Irshad Agha, sessions judge observed.
 
 The court said that the prosecution has, therefore, failed to prove that the accused was found in possession of charas and cocaine. Raut has not complied with the mandatory provisions contemplated under the NDPS Act, the court remarked.
 
 The prosecution examined seven witnesses in the case. Public prosecutor   said that the accused was found in illegal possession of charas in small quantity and cocaine in variable quantity. Both the substances were sent for examination and found to be positive.
 
 Advocate K Poulekar, appearing for the accused, said that there are discrepancies regarding the seal used by the investigating agency. 
 
 He said that as per police, two separate drugs were found, while the chemical analysis revealed that there were three drugs.
 
 “Accused is given benefit of doubt and stands acquitted of the offences punishable under Section 20 (b) (ii) (A), Section 21 (b) and 22(b) of the NDPS Act, 1985,” the judge observed.
 
 
