JAIPUR: In what would provide further fillip to the startup ecosystem,   government will send 100 students from the state on a two-week residential learning programme to   from July 10 where they will receive mentorship in the   to build prototypes and pitch their ideas to prospective investors. The government will bear all their expenses.

 
 After receiving over 10,000 applications, the   of technology and communication has already started the initial process for shortlisting them through various rounds of interviews for the final round.
 
 A top official in the department said in the final round, teams or individuals will present a pitch of their idea and based on their overall performance, quality of presentation and the idea along with their individual technical capabilities they will be selected.
 
 Rajasthan government with its iStart platform is taking on the favoured startup locations like Telangana, Bangalore and Pune. Department of IT&C is first government body in the country to launch an initiative like the ‘student startup exposure programme’ where student-preneurs will be given all financial help to learn from global exposure and get access to quality global mentorship.
 
 “The Student Startup Exposure Program is a step towards realising the vision of the chief minister to ensure world-class facilities and exposure to young entrepreneurs of Rajasthan. It is also a benchmark step for promoting women entrepreneurs. Quality is the ultimate and only criteria of selection. Weightage will be given to teams or individuals who have taken up startup ideas in the past and got to the prototype stage,” said Akhil Arora, principal secretary, DoIT &C.
 
 While college and university students are eligible for participating in the programme, the department has reserved 25% of the total strength to promote startups by women entrepreneurs, who will be travelling to Silicon Valley.
 
 Along with the two-week residential incubation, the students will also be provided three-month access to online learning course to further improve their outlook and make them ready for the world. “The whole programme is aimed at motivating them to become job-creators and not job-seekers,” said a source in the department.
 
