Nagpur: The city police’s crime branch unit, probing the illegal trafficking case, has now intimated the British high commission about the whereabouts of 26 illegal immigrants holed up in UK with fake travel documents. The cops alerting the British authorities have asked them to initiate procedure for their deportation.  The city police have also initiated the procedure for issuing ‘Look Out Circular’ (LOC) for five persons through Airports Authority of India in Delhi. LOC would be shortly issued against Nishant Singh, Kashmir Singh and his wife. It has been issued against Man Singh and his wife too though they are suspects as violations by them are yet to be established. Police sources said the names of Man Singh and his family had surfaced in the probe but investigating agency now wants to ascertain the number of children they had claimed to have parented in the travel documents for sending them to UK. Crime branch has so far arrested 13 persons, along with their conduits, for their alleged role in sending illegal immigrants to UK on fake travel documents. NMC officials, who had issued birth certificates, too are under scanner. The cops have already nabbed a person who had been working in the birth and death registration department of NMC.  The racket was exposed by the British high commission's Immigration Enforcement International (IEI) after they shared their findings with city police last year. City police subsequently had registered offences against 10 couples from Sikh and Sindhi community from Teka Naka in north Nagpur in January this year.  DCP, crime branch, Sambhaji Kadam said women involved in supporting their husbands in the racket would be also soon arrested. “The probe is underway. We have some top NMC and police department personnel under scanner and they may get booked too depending on documents that Immigration department has furnished so far,” he said.  There had been at least half a dozen private travel agents from Teka naka who were named by the British high commission as crucial links in the trafficking rackets. The cops have, however, found nothing wrong against them despite the fact they were involved in completing the formalities of sending the illegal immigrants repeatedly to UK.