THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The government has issued orders to withdraw the case that was registered against former   for the infamous brawl that occurred when the then finance minister   was about to present the budget. LDF members, who were then part of the opposition, went on a rampage, destroying the speaker’s podium as the protest against Mani, over bar bribery scam, took a violent turn inside the assembly in 2015.

 
 The government’s decision came on the basis of a petition by former MLA V Sivankutty. Barring the ex-MLA, case was also registered against KT Jaleel, who is a minister in the LDF cabinet,  , CK Sadasivan, K Ajith and Kunhammed. The unruly mob had damaged speaker’s chair, loudspeakers, computers and lights.
 
 
 UDF, which decried the decision, said that it would resort to all possible measures to counter the government decision.
 
 “This is a question of challenging the sanctity of an institution. The government may have its powers to withdraw cases, but how can the chief minister justify an incident that caused a great deal of shame to the assembly? We will explore all possible ways, including legal options,” said opposition leader  .
 
 KPCC president M M Hassan said that the government is resorting to such a step on the request of V Sivankutty who lost the elections as well as public trust in 2016. This proves that if the accused are   members, the government will go to any extent to save them.
 
 Chennithala added that the government is responsible for the assembly being disrupted continuously on the second day. “The government is not giving permission for moving adjournment motion as it has a lot to hide. The speaker should not only protect the interests of the ruling front, but also the rights of the opposition,” he said.
 
 IUML leader M K Muneer said that the leave for adjournment motion is never denied permission if the matter is of timely relevance.
 
 
 
 
 The opposition can protest in the assembly in any manner they deem fit but such agitations should not in any way prevent the speaker from viewing the members, speaker P Sreeramakrishnan said.
 
 The opposition members, while protesting on Tuesday, had raised banners in front of the speaker’s dais and shouted personal slogans against the speaker.
 
 “Shouting slogans against me is not a matter of concern. But the situation had become such that the assembly proceedings could not be taken forward without me seeing the members,” he told a news conference at his chamber.
 
 All issues raised by the opposition were given ample time and the assembly can run smoothly only if a minimum respect is shown to the speaker, he said. He said the matters that were intended to be raised by the opposition will be allowed to be presented on Wednesday.
 
 
