VADODARA: Alert job aspirants helped Sayajigunj police expose racket of cheating hundreds by promising them jobs abroad. Police arrested the two who were running the racket.

 Police learnt about the scam when one of the job aspirants grew suspicious about the accused duo and called them up. After questioning the two, police got to know that they were duping the job aspirants.
 
 Jitendra Trivedi, a resident of Bajwa told police that his friend Sunil Giri had informed him on Saturday evening about a message he had received about interviews being arranged for jobs in the   countries. The message was being circulated in the name of Vishal Enterprise. 
 
 “Trivedi and his friends turned up at a city-based hotel to give interviews on Sunday. Hundreds of people from other states too had arrived for the interviews,” said  , police inspector, Sayajigunj.
 
 The aspirants were asked to come with their original passports, resume, photographs, aadhar card and PAN card. Trivedi and his friend met Mahendra Rana, proprietor of Vishal Enterprise, who asked them to submit their original passports along with photocopies.   promised them jobs in G-Five, a South Africa-based company. Rana told them that they will have to deposit Rs 4,000 for medical check-up and another Rs 5,000 for financial services.
 
 “The aspirants were told that the SA-based company will bear their visa and travelling expenses. They were also told that the company would pay them $1,200 to $1,500 towards salary besides provide accommodation along with food. The complainant went for interview and was told by the interviewers that he had passed,” the police said. 
 
 Trivedi was then given visiting card of Mahendra Rana that had KG Enterprise printed on it.
 
 Trivedi then checked the message he got and it had Vishal Enterprise on it. He then confronted Rana and asked him about two different names of the firm that was facilitating their jobs abroad. Rana didn’t give him satisfactory replies and instead misbehaved. 
 
 Police were called in and their investigation revealed that Rana and his accomplice Ayubkhan Rana were trying to cheat the job aspirants by making false promises to collect money.
 
 
