

 
 
 
 
 
 Every person’s journey is unique. We go through different ups and downs and discover things that other people don’t. I have experienced so much in life through my journey, so it’s interesting to put it in a movie and present it to people. Over the years, I have seen beauty, struggle, redemption and love. This is what the movie is all about. We started shooting last year and the shoot is complete. The film is in post-production now, as the CG work is pending. There are a lot of songs, so I need to plan on releasing them one by one, as I want people to be introduced to the songs much before the release of the film. 
 
 
 
 
 The story-writing started seven years ago. Before that, I knew I wanted to tell stories but didn’t know how to, so I took lessons. I attended script-writing workshops. Also, your mind starts to work on its own when you are inclined towards something. There have been so many long flights I’ve taken, which also gave me a lot of time to think. 
 
 
 
 Not really. I have directed a VR (virtual reality) movie called Le Musk, but 2D feature films require undivided attention. Like my son said, ‘Daddy, I don’t think you should direct anything anymore, as I am seeing more and more grey hair by the day’. Also, we already have great filmmakers and visionaries who are better at it. I can just relax and watch a movie instead (smiles). VR was a different ball game — that space was empty, so I jumped at it. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 The composer in me is not very accepting of the vocalist in me. It happens when you play two roles — that of a singer and a composer. As a composer, you are always sitting on the other side and telling singers how to sing. When you are singing, the same person (me) starts telling you, how much more you can do. That’s challenging.
 
 
 
 Sikkim is a non-controversial state, and is one with nature. The people of Sikkim are extremely nice and they are an example of co-existence. There are so many beautiful qualities about the state and so, I felt it’s the right thing to do. This part of the country (Northeast) has always fascinated me, but I hadn’t been here before. Recently, I visited Shillong and only after going there I realised what India is all about. I believe India is not just Mumbai, Chennai or Kerala. Each part of the country makes you feel like you are being born again and you still have so much more to discover.
 
 
 
 
 
 I want to do a lot of interesting things that I haven’t done before. I want to find new ways to face challenges and explore places that I haven’t seen before, like I am doing at the moment in Sikkim. I want to explore a completely new India and find ways to include it in our movies. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
