PUNE: It seems the National Rifle Association of India ( ) is yet to learn some lessons as far as bifurcation of authority is concerned. This has been underlined by the fact that junior Indian pistol shooters, who are part of the senior team, have opted out of the camp organized by the shooting body in Pforzeim, Germany, having preferred to stay in India.

 
 The NRAI has made it compulsory for all selected shooters to attend national camps conducted ahead of important meets. The camp organized ahead of the Munich World Cup, began from May 7 with all the members of the team, except pistol shooters  ,   and Mahima Agarwal.
 
 The members of the rifle team, which also includes junior shooters, have started training for the World Cup, which will begin from May 22.
 
 Being a part of the senior squad, the junior shooters should ideally work according to the plan charted by foreign pistol coach Smirnov Pavel and national coach Ved Prakash Pilaniya, but in this case, shots are being called by junior national coach  .
 
 When asked why the junior pistol shooters have not joined the camp, NRAI president   said he didn’t know the exact reason. “I don’t know why they didn’t join the camp, but I guess they are training with Jaspal Rana,” Singh said. Rana is the national coach for junior pistol shooters.
 
 When asked whether the shooters in the senior team should train under the senior coach rather than the junior team’s coach, the NRAI chief admitted, “Ideally they should have attended the camp with other shooters (under the senior team coaches). I will have to find out the exact reason. But they will join the camp from May 15 with Jaspal.”
 
 Contradicting Raninder’s statement, Rana said the shooters were on a break from shooting. “Who said that if a camp is organized, it has to be attended? The junior shooters had a long season and deserved a break so they didn’t join the camp. I had informed NRAI about it,” Rana told TOI.
 
 The junior rifle shooters too had shot in the same tournaments as their pistol counterparts. The NRAI had given the shooters a break from shooting by not sending anyone for the ongoing World Cup in Fort Benning, USA.
 
