VADODARA/  : Acting on a tip-off, the police and social defence department teams stopped 18 under-aged couples from tying the knot ahead of a mass marriage ceremony in   village of   taluka.

 Sources said that the ceremony was organized under the banner of   in which a total of 42 couples were going to tie the nuptial knots on May 12. A day ahead,. the officials and the Petlad rural police approached the organizers seeking age proof of the couples who were going to participate in the mass wedding. 
 
 “We explained to the organizers that as per law, marriages can only be solemnized once the girl attains the age of 18 years and boy 21 years,” said  , child marriage prevention officer of Anand district. 
 
 “We told them that offences could be registered against parents of the girls and the bridegrooms, apart from the organizers and those involved in conducting the marriages, under the provisions of the Prohibition of Child Marriage Act, 2006,” he said.
 
 The organizers were convinced and marriages of only 24 couples were held on Saturday. A majority of girls whose marriages were thwarted were falling short of the legal eligible age for marriage by a year or two while in the case of boys, a majority of them were falling short in the range of one to five years. 
 
 “We took affidavits from parents of all this boys and girls stating that they will not get their wards married before the legally eligible age,” he said. 
 
 Earlier on March 29, the officials had stopped child marriages of seven couples who were going to tie nuptial knots in a mass marriage at   town of Anand district. 
 
 With this, the total number of such child marriages which have been stopped in Anand district in 2017-18 has touched around 45 – much higher compared to the figures of last three years when 40 such child marriages were stopped in the district. 
 
 According to officials, although illegal, the practice of child marriages in prevalent amongst certain castes mainly because of poverty and belief amongst parents that their wards will not get proper bride or bridegrooms after they attain a certain age. 
 
 
