BATHINDA: Farm labourers, who have been demanding plots for homeless in Punjab, have accused the   government of excluding the homeless residing in nagar panchayats. Labour organisation Punjab Khet Mazdoor Union (PKMU) started a campaign for the homeless on Tuesday by holding sit-ins at block development and panchayat offices (BDPOs) for including residents of nagar panchayats as beneficiaries. 

 The previous SAD-BJP government had converted 57 big villages into nagar panchayats in December 2016, just ahead of the assembly elections, which now are described as parts of urban areas and have been excluded from the categories of villages. There are 57 nagar panchayats in Punjab, of which Bathinda has the maximum number of 13 followed by   district with five and Mansa, Kapurthala, Jalandhar and   districts with four each. Gurdaspur, Nawanshahr and Faridkot districts have no nagar panchayat.
 
 On December 31, 2017, the state government had announced to provide five marla (125 sq yds) plots to the landless poor in rural areas. They have been asked to hand over applications to block development and panchayat offices (BDPO) in their respective areas till January 31 to be eligible to get benefit of plots. 
 
 According to a rough survey carried out by labour outfits, 57 nagar panchayats have nearly 9,000 homeless poor, who have been rendered ineligible for the plots. The issue of plots to homeless is hanging fire for the last more than four decades. Nearly 20,000 poor persons despite being allotted plots are awaiting the possession. The SAD-BJP cabinet in 2016 had made amendment to the   holding (consolidation and prevention of fragmentation) Act-1948 to allot five marla plots each to homeless from the village common land.
 
 “The announcements to allot five marla plots each to the poor were made earlier in 1972, 1976, 1997, 2012 and 2016 but possessions of nearly 20,000 plots have not been given. To quell the rebellion of farm labour organizations before the 2014 general elections, the state government had decided to start the process to provide possession of plots to the homeless from Kili Nihal Singh Wala village in Bathinda district but the plots were not given,” claimed PKMU general secretary Lachhman Singh Sewewala.
 
 Punjab rural development and panchayat department director   said, “The nagar panchayats are now part of urban areas and this scheme is for rural residents. The applications have been invited from homeless poor for plots in rural areas and these will be allotted thereafter.”
 
 
