BENGALURU: The   on Monday asked state police to show some seriousness in investigating the case of missing techie Kumar  .

 Justice A S Bopanna made this observation while hearing a petition filed by Ajitabh’s father wherein he had sought transferring the case to the CBI. Adjourning the hearing to January 16, he observed that the court expects some development by then as police have formed special teams to trace the techie.
 
 The court also noted it’s “every day agony” as the petitioner is not able to reconcile whether his son is alive or not.
 
 Earlier, the judge asked the next step as the report submitted by police indicates that Ajitabh’s mobile is off and there is no specific lead. The judge noted that even though it’s not advisable to refer every case to the CBI, the police should show some seriousness and unless police does it, such cases are bound to happen. 
 
 However , Additional Advocate General ( ) A G Shivanna told the court that there’s been substantial progress and the investigation is on by eight special teams comprising 60 personnel. He also sought two weeks’ time.
 
 In his petition, Ashok Kumar Sinha, father of Ajitabh, claimed that despite registration of two FIRs in separate complaints by Whitefield police on December 20 and December 29, 2017, his son has not yet been traced even after 15 days and there is no substantial progress in city police investigation.
 
 He apprehended that there is grave danger to his 30-year-old son, a software engineer with British Telecom who went missing around 6.30pm on December 18 after receiving a call from an unknown person. That person offered to purchase his car which had been put for sale on OLX, an online marketplace.
 
 According to the petitioner, his son may have been abducted for gain or been a victim of an organized gang involved in organ trafficking or his IT skills may be used for anti-national activities.
 
 Relief for 32 MCom students
 
 The high court on Monday directed Bangalore University to evaluate answersheets of third semester examination of 32 MCom students and declare their results in four weeks. Justice B V Nagarathna gave this direction after hearing a petition filed by M Leelashree and others.
 
 According to the petitioners, the university accepted the declarations submitted by them in which they opted for ‘Banking and Finance’ as their elective paper and it’s bound to declare the results.
 
 According to them, they have all completed the MCom course, except for the open elective paper in which the result is yet to be declared. If it’s declared, there is no need to appear for the examination called by the univesrity on January 10, 2018.
 
 
