PATNA: The Centre is to allocate special yearly funds to 35 different districts across seven states in India, including six districts in   that are worst affected by Left Wing Extremism (LWE). The funds are meant for development of public infrastructure and services and to fill the critical gaps hampering the area’s growth.

 State home department sources said the funds would be allocated under Special Central Assistance ( ) for three consecutive financial years starting from 2017-2018.
 
 Aurangabad, Gaya, Jamui, Muzaffarpur, Banka and   in Bihar would get funds under the scheme.   has maximum number of 16 highly LWE-affected districts while   has 8, Odisha two and Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana one each to be covered under the scheme.
 
 According to sources, the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) would allocate Rs28.57 crore to each of the 35 districts annually for carrying out public-oriented development works on projects and proposals after getting them approved from  .
 
 “On January 25, a letter was received regarding formation of the approval committee headed by special secretary rank officer of MHA, who monitors   activities across India,” sources said.
 
 They said the committee would approve district-level projects following which funds would be allocated for carrying out construction works.
 
 “A district level committee (DLC) headed by district magistrate, superintendent of police and district forest officer will come with proposals to be further looked into by a state level committee (SLC) headed by chief secretary. Finally, it will be submitted before MHA’s committee for approval,” sources said.
 
 “With financial year ending in two months, Bihar will have to come up fast with development projects and proposals as under this scheme, if any district fails to pick up the annual fund, it will lapse and won’t be adjusted in the next financial year,” a senior official said citing an important condition of the scheme.
 
 “If officials of the six Bihar districts show proper interest and act fast, the scenario in these Maoist-hit districts will change,” he said.
 
 Bihar witnessed only 71 incidents last year, which is the least since 2007. Also, it was for the first time in the last 12 years that no security personnel were killed in LWE violence in 2017 although seven Maoists were neutralized.
 
 A senior home department official said, “SCA is the revised form of an earlier scheme named Integrated Action Plan (IAP), but lots of discretionary power has been given to district level officers in the new scheme”. He said   did not deliver satisfying results and had to be discontinued.
 
 Sources also said MHA’s letter for the scheme was received by all states in December last year.
 
 
