HYDERABAD: Forty days intensive coaching will be held for engineering and medical seat aspirants from 6am to 10.30pm, beginning from March 19.

 No, this isn’t an advertisement of a coaching institute to lure students in, for competitive exams, but a circular released by the Telangana Residential Educational Institutions (TREI) society.
 
 To prepare students for IIT/NEET/EAMCET exam,   has decided to follow in the footsteps of city corporate colleges, and will organize intensive coaching and awareness camps for selected   students.
 
 “TREI Society has decided to conduct a 40-day Intensive coaching camp for 180 students (  and BiPC Senior and Junior intermediate) selected from eight TSR Junior colleges to prepare them for the IIT-JEE/NEET/EAMCET competitive examinations.
 
 Further, TREI society will also conduct a 12-day intensive awareness camp for 240 students of Inter first year, studying in six newly-started TSR Junior colleges, to create awareness on IIT-JEE/EAMCET/ NEET,” read the circular released by the society.
 
 While the intensive camp will be held between March 19 and April 27 at TSRJC, Hasanparthy, the short term coaching camp (awareness camp for EAMCET/IITJEE/NEET) for first year students will be held between March 15-26 at TSRJC, Sarvail (240 students, 120 from MPC, and 120 from BPC streams).
 
 The students will be selected for this camp by performance in intensive tests, conducted at their respective colleges. The daily routine of selected students will start at 6am and go on till 10.30pm with multiple breaks in between.
 
 When asked about the grueling timings and the long hours scheduled, he said “We want to make maximum use of forty days we get. Also, we are ready to make slight changes if students can’t cope up with the schedule.”
 
 Interestingly, there won’t be any classes whatsoever for the remaining students studying in these colleges.
 
 “All the students have required materials along with their notes as we have parallel-trained them for competitive exams along with intermediate classes. Except for this, there won’t be any other special classes for students,” said Reddy.
 
