THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The   has set January 30 as the last date for   for preparing their individual master plans as part of the ‘general education protection mission’ launched by the state government.

 The mission, which proposes to improve the academic quality and infrastructure facilities in government and aided schools in a phased manner, is part of the ‘Nava Keralam Karma Padhathi’ (  action plan).
 
 All offices under the general education department, including school administration, are expected to improve efficiency and revise their citizen charters. A right mix of activities for improvement of academic as well as physical infrastructure improvement programmes have to form part of the individual master plans.
 
 The master plans, according to a government order in this regard, should proclaim the objectives and describe the time bound activities towards achieving the targets proclaimed in the plans. The activities in the master plans should have shortterm academic activities, which can be completed in two to seven months, medium-term programmes that can be completed in a year and long-term programmes, spanning beyond a year and not exceeding two to three years.
 
 While the short-term academic activities can be improvement of reading skills, improvement of linguistic and mathematics/scientific skills, the mediumterm programmes can be setting up of biodiversity park, waste-free campuses, talent labs, etc.
 
 The master plans thus developed by schools are to be placed for public deliberations. Members of parents teachers association, school development council, LSGI representatives, alumnus, retired teachers, education experts in the local area, socio-cultural workers and other native people interested in the development of the school should be members of the public scrutiny committee. The public scrutiny of the plans should be held on February 1.
 
 Committees have been constituted in the sub-district, education district and district level for the effective monitoring of the activities being planned towards the implementation of the general education protection mission. The mission programme was announced by the state government as one of the flagship programmes aimed at regaining the lost glory of government and aided schools in the state.
 
 
