GHAZIABAD: A   in Niwari was lured into a jungle and beheaded with a spade allegedly by a   who wanted to avenge the   of his grandfather 29 years ago.

 Although the man was beheaded in December last year, the body was found on Thursday after police launched a search for him following a complaint by his brother in March.
 
 The police said the hostility between the families of Bobby — who was killed — and his neighbour Pradeep dated back several decades. Ties strained all the more when Pradeep’s grandfather was killed allegedly by Bobby’s relatives over a plot and sharing of water in 1989.Since then, the two families had been involved in several clashes till 1992, when they reached a compromise and decided to bury their animosities.
 
 Pradeep has been arrested for allegedly killing Bobby along with his relatives. Officers said he had confessed to beheading his neighbour in December, packing the body and the severed head in two gunny bags and burying them separately. 
 
 The police have recovered only the head.
 
 Bobby (40), who was a farmer in   village, had been missing since December 19 last year. His brother Ajit approached the local police station on March 18 and lodged a missing person’s complaint saying Bobby was last seen accompanying Pradeep on a bike. 
 
 Asked why it took so long for the family to approach the cops, they said Bobby often stayed out of home for several months at a stretch.
 
 The police took Pradeep in their custody and questioned him for several days. Officers said Pradeep had revealed he had taken Bobby to his friend Babu Ram’s house in Baghpat. Later, they were joined by Pradeep’s brother-in-law Sushil and also his friend Manoj.
 
 “All of them had been drinking and the topic of hostility between the two families cropped up. This led to an argument between the two and Pradeep lured Bobby to the jungle. He beheaded him and disposed of the body and the head separately,” SHO (Niwari) Ravendra Singh said.
 
  senior superintendent of police   said Bobby’s murder was the fallout of the enmity between the two families.
 
 “A thorough questioning has revealed that Pradeep’s grandfather Bishambar was killed by Bobby’s family in 1989 over the partition of farmland and irrigation water. A year later, Pradeep’s family killed Bobby’s father Jai Prakash. This was followed by a clash between the two families in which shots were fired. Several people from both sides had been jailed. But in 1992, the two families reached a compromise and since been living peacefully,” Krishna said.
 
 The officer said Pradeep had a difficult upbringing because of financial constraints and other hardships after the death of his grandfather. He had been fed on stories of animosity between the two families that dated back to several decades. 
 
 “Throughout his growing up years, Pradeep’s mother used to tell him about how his grandfather was murdered, which kept alive the hostility towards Bobby’s family. Towards the latter part, Bobby and Pradeep developed a friendship towards each other. On December 19, Pradeep had persuaded Bobby to come with him to Baghpat,” Krishna added.
 
 The police have recovered a spade believed to have been used to sever the head. The SSP said a DNA test would be done to ascertain the identity of the head.
 
 
