As soon as shooter   stepped out of the Jaipur International Airport, she was welcomed by her parents, father Kuldeep Singh Chandela and mother Bindu Rathore, with garlands. Apurvi, who hails from Jaipur, won a bronze medal in   in the 10m Air Rifle event. “Medal hai saath mein? Usko peheno,” her father told Apurvi, as people stopped by to click pictures and congratulate her and her parents.

 Donning a blue-coloured Commonwealth Games jacket with ‘India’ written on the back, Apurvi, who was happily obliging fans with pictures, told us, “It’s a great feeling. For two consecutive Commonwealth Games, I have been able to win medal for the country. I am very proud of my qualification round where I shot my personal best this time. Everyone wants to win the gold. Of course, I was a bit disappointed that I couldn’t clinch a gold medal.”
 
  
  
 
 Said Apurvi, “But I am also happy that I shot my best in the qualification round and it is a very high score. I am now looking forward to the upcoming World Cup slated to happen in South Korea and hopefully, I would be able to win gold for my country.”
 
 Apurvi broke her own Games qualification record of 415.6 she set in Glasgow with a score of 423.2. About which she said, “While shooting only, I knew that I am going to break the previous record. I was focusing on my technique and it worked in my favour.” 
 
 Apurvi’s father had told us that she wanted a very low-key affair. We asked Apurvi to find out the reason behind it and she shared, “Yes, I had told my parents not to plan any grand celebration. I am focusing on International Shooting Sports Federation (ISSF) World Cup in South Korea. Let me come back with a medal, then we would celebrate in a big way.”
 
 While cricket remains by far the most popular sports in India, Apurvi says that other sports are slowly getting their due. And while shooting might take some time to achieve the status which cricket enjoys in our country, she is hopeful that it will gain in popularity. “Things are changing. Many youngsters are doing well and I am sure the popularity of the game will increase in the coming future,” said Apurvi.
 
  
 
