Pascale Petit, a UK based poet, won the  . The   is an annual award, bestowed by The Royal Society of Literature. It awards a "distinguished work of fiction, non-fiction or poetry, evoking the spirit of a place". 

 This year they awarded   for her book 
 , a poetry anthology. Though the poet was born in Paris and grew up in the Wales, she chose to write about the  .
 
 "I’m absolutely thrilled to win this particular prize for a book evoking the spirit of a place. I’ve been obsessed with the Amazon rainforest for 25 years, and I poured that obsession into 
 . The Amazon has become my mother, in all her abused glory, and through that eco-system, I am able to love an estranged and mentally ill parent. I’ve travelled to the Amazon four times, and recently stayed in a research centre deep in the Peruvian pristine jungle, and have observed at close hand how scientists are recording species as they vanish. It was there I saw a jaguar in his home!", Petit said.
 
 She dedicates the book to her mother. The poems do tell the story of her mother, according to The Guardian, it "merges the Amazon rainforest with the psychiatric ward caring for her mentally ill mother".
 
 It is the first time a poetry book has won the Ondaatje Prize. Winners are awarded a prize money £10,000. 
 
 The judges were Tahmima Anam, Eva Hoffman and Daljit Nagra.
 
 
  is an unforgettable read - rich with metaphor, the poems explode on the page with the multiple narratives of motherhood, illness, pain, and redemption. All of this set in a rainforest that is both mythic and vividly alive. This is a book that feels almost magical in its unlikeliness, and that for me is what made it a clear winner. " said Tahmima Anam
 
 Daljit Nagra said, "Rarely has the personal and environmental lament found such imaginative fusion, such outlandish and shocking expression that is at once spectacularly vigorous, intimate and heartbroken."
 
 "In Pascale Petit’s evocations, the Amazon rainforest comes alive, with human characters as much a part of nature as the creatures and plants living there – alluring and frightening, violent and vulnerable, dangerous and endangered. A feat of imaginative intensity, this is also an act of reckoning and reparation, in which deep empathy for a disturbed mother is transmuted into the exacting beauty of poetic language," said Eva Hoffman.
 
 
