PHAGWARA: A month after a clash between right wing Hindu groups and Dalit activists in Phagwara on April 13 night,   has submitted a memorandum to Union home minster, stating that no action has been taken against Dalit leaders. The manch has also sought an inquiry into the role of Phagwara ADC and SDM, while alleging that Punjab government had been trying to save accused from Dalits. 

 The outfit has now called a general meeting on April 16 to decide on further course of action.
 
 In the memorandum submitted to   by General Samaj Manch general secretary Girish Sharma on Friday, they have argued that Dalit politics has always dominated the discourse in town as Phagwara assembly constituency and its parliament constituency have remained reserved. “Due to the patronage of political leaders for quite sometime, Dalit community members have been encroaching upon public spaces in urban and rural areas and have built Ambedkar Bhawans or parks,” the memo states. “In every street of the town, statues of Dr Ambedkar have been installed without any permission from the authorities,” it adds.
 
 “There are around 35% Dalits in the town but whenever any public institution comes up, they insist on naming it after Dr Ambedkar or other personalities from among them. Already Phagwara bus stand has been named after Dr Ambedkar and now they are adamant on naming Adampur airport after Guru Ravidass Maharaj,” reads the memo, claiming that due to this reason the upper castes felt threatened.
 
 While giving details of the events preceding the clash on April 13, the memo has alleged that it was the act of installing the hoarding to rename the Gol Chowk in the township which became the trigger. It has pointed out that while four persons of one side (of right wing Hindu groups) were arrested, no accused was arrested from among the Dalits. 
 
 They have mainly blamed Lok Insaaf Party leader Jarnail Nangal and   (Mool Niwasi) president   for the clash. Seeking “fair action”, the manch has sought quick action against the two. It has also named Phagwara ADC Baibta Kler and SDM  , alleging that they had given free hand to both Nangal and Suman. 
 
 
