Kolkata: Telangana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao is coming down to Kolkata on Monday to meet chief minister Mamata Banerjee over shaping up the anti-BJP front.

 According to government sources, the Telangana CM is coming by a private aircraft and will go straight to Nabanna in the afternoon. The two CMs will have to cross a big hurdle during the talks on their stand on Congress. While Banerjee does not consider it a pariah, KCR is firm that it should not be part of the alliance. He had recently declared Congress ‘Villain no. 1 in Telangana’.
 
 A fortnight ago, Rao had sounded out some political leaders — including Banerjee, Ajit Yogi and Sitaram Yechury — about a non-BJP, non-Congress platform, to capitalise on the growing resentment against BJP that Congress cannot, as has been displayed in the recent Lok Sabha bypoll results in the Hindi heartland — UP and Bihar — where Congress lost its deposits.
 
 The other reason for the Telangana CM’s coming to Kolkata is to curry favour with Banerjee, who has welcomed Telugu Desam Party’s (TDP) quit-NDA decision.
 
 Trinamool seniors in Delhi are in touch with leaders of other parties who want Banerjee to lead the anti-BJP battle because she has been consistent in voicing her protest against the Narendra Modi government from the day the Prime Minister announced demonetisation and continued with her protests against GST and BJP’s efforts to divide people. 
 
 Even TDP’s Chandrababu Naidu wants Mamata to head the alliance instead of Congress president Rahul Gandhi, who is yet to prove his worth despite a boost in the Gujarat polls. Congress’performance in the coming 4-5 assembly elections, including in Karnataka, will determine its role in the alliance against BJP.
 
 “The fulcrum of the anti-BJP alliance is shifting from Delhi to Kolkata,” a Trinamool senior said, adding that Banerjee had the experience and credibility among non-BJP parties. 
 
 Also, Trinamool is likely to win most of the 42 Lok Sabha seats in West Bengal that will make the party stand in good stead in terms of numbers. 
 
 According to TRS sources, KCR is planning a giant political leap to project himself nationally before his party’s formation day on April 27, which is celebrated on a grand scale every year. Key meetings with various political parties and social groups in Delhi, Mumbai and Chennai have also been chalked out. 
 
 With TDP snapping ties with NDA, TRS is also said to be not loath to the idea of talking to Naidu to form a federal front.
 
 Sources said Naidu has decided to get in touch with political parties from across the country and bring them under one umbrella to keep BJP and Congress at bay. He has hammered out a strategy to take this idea forward in early April, sources added.
 
 
