HYDERABAD: The   is caught in a   on disbursing money to farmers under the  . Initially, the state wanted to deposit the amount in farmers’ bank accounts, but several MLAs and ministers were apprehensive that banks might adjust the ₹4,000 per acre incentive with the outstanding loans of the farmer.

 Now, the state is contemplating payment through bank cheque or even crediting the amount at the post offices or cooperative society accounts of the farmers. But it is still to figure out the best method to ensure that the money reaches the farmer.
 
 “Earlier, most of the amount released under the loan waiver scheme was adjusted against the pending loans of farmers. Though the state government incurred over ₹12,000 crore expenditure, the farmer did not benefit at all. We want to ensure that a similar situation does not happen with the crop capital incentive scheme. So we are trying to figure out different disbursal methods,” said a minister who attended a meeting chaired by agriculture minister Pocharam Srinivas Reddy on Monday.
 
  
 The TRS government is very keen on launching the scheme on May 15 so that the amount will be utilized for the Kharif season starting on June 1.  ,  ,   attended the meeting where the committee discussed pros and cons of different disbursal methods. They finally decided to take feedback from farmers before deciding on the mode of payment.
 
 “The entire agriculture staff has been pressed into service to find out the most favoured option for the farmers. The staff will interact with farmers and give us the feedback by Tuesday night. Based on this, the committee will once again meet on January 10 and take a decision on the payment mode,” agriculture principal secretary C Partha Sarathi told TOI.
 
 Meanwhile, the banks consortium also informed the state government that they would hold a meeting with partner banks to finalise their action plan on the capital incentive scheme. Banks have been assuring the farmers that they would not adjust the amount against the old dues. However, the farmers are not convinced.
 
 “Banks are now ready to give an undertaking to the government that they would not adjust the capital incentive against pending loans. We have asked them to give it in writing,” said a finance department official. A solution is likely to be found in the January 10 meeting.
 
 
