MADURAI: Prices of garlic have touched a new low with each kg selling at Rs 40 in retail markets in Madurai and  , while the wholesale prices have dropped drastically due to abnormally high supply from the garlic producing state of  .

 Over the last few days, walkers in K K Nagar were surprised to see a vendor selling garlic at Rs 50 for 1.5kg. “That was when I realised that the prices had come down and decided to buy two kg, as it was very cheap compared to last month when it was priced at Rs 45 for 500g in retail,” said S  , a resident.
 
 An essential commodity in most dishes, the fall in prices saw people buying it in bulk. Wholesale trader, A Sivakumar said the prices fell due to higher supply from Madhya Pradesh. Madurai received about 100 tonne daily, with the wholesale price on Friday varying between Rs 5 for the small pods and Rs 30 for the bigger ones.
 
 “The excess supply is due to stock that has been carried over from 2017 and also high yield this year in Madhya Pradesh,” he said. “With a supply as high as this, I doubt if the price will increase in near future as Indian garlic is finding it difficult to compete with the export price of China which is now determining the garlic export globally,” Sivakumar said.
 
 In Theni district, Vadugapatti near   which is the major garlic wholesale market in the region, the price has fallen further with the best quality selling between Rs 15 to Rs 20, he said. 
 
 Meanwhile, in Kodaikanal garlic continues to sell for Rs 130 to Rs 150 per kg, bringing the   good returns for their efforts. Kodaikanal’s hill garlic varieties, Mettupalayam and Singapore, have large pods and are preferred for their high pungency levels, whereas their Madhya Pradesh counterparts are mild.
 
 Farmers in Poomparai, Poondi, Kavunji, Kookkal, Gundupatti and Mannavanur in upper Kodaikanal cultivate garlic which is a 100 to 120-day crop.
 
 Horticulture officer of Kodaikanal, S Shiny said that garlic is cultivated as the main crop by farmers in these villages twice a year over a total of 351 hectares. 
 
 
