SALEM: The Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) has registered a case against former director of Periyar Institute of Distance Education (PRIDE) of   and three others, two of them former controller of examinations (CoEs), for their alleged involvement in swindling Rs 28 lakh from a study centre set up in Kolkata.

 All the four - former director of PRIDE G Gunasekaran,  , and coordinator of the study centre in Kolkata Jayanth Mukarjee - were booked soon after the state government directed the DVAC to register a case against them on February 1. It is not known who has raked up the issue now. 
 
 According to a senior DVAC official, Gunasekaran had given approval to Jayanth of Kolkata-based Indian Institute of Professionals to set up a Periyar University distance study centre in that state in 2007. “Gunasekaran reportedly didn’t visit Kolkata, but he forged documents to show that he had visited the centre there,” the official said.
 
 After getting approval from the university, Jayanth admitted 530 students to the centre and collected fees directly from them in cash, despite the university’s instruction to collect fees only in the form of demand draft. “He, however, did not remit the fees to the university account. He swindled the cash with the support of PRIDE officials,” the DVAC officer said.
 
 Jayanth also conducted examinations though controller of examinations refused to issue non-objection certificate to him to do the same.
 
 The issue came to light after the students approached the university for mark sheets, course certificates and degree certificates. “By the time, Jayanth had shut the centre and gone into hiding,” the official said.
 
 The stranded students subsequently submitted the fee receipts issued by Jayanth and demanded the university to issue their certificates. University officials, however, asked them to pay their fees first. Left with no other option, the students paid the entire fees again to secure the certificates.
 
 “Gunasekaran and CoEs, however, kept mum on the issue and didn’t take any action against the centre coordinator and errant university officials,” the DVAC official said.
 
 Meanwhile, University Grants Commission instructed all the universities to open study centres only in their jurisdiction. Following this, PRIDE officials shut 333 study centres across the country and abroad, stating they failed to admit a single student in those centres in the past couple of years. “So, this issue was covered up till date,” the official added.
 
 DVAC officials would now quiz the coordinators of all the 333 closed study centres to find out the actual amount swindled by the PRIDE and university officials.
 
 “We have booked the four under Sections 120 B read with 167, 406, 409 and 420 of Indian Penal Code (IPC) and various sections of Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988. Strict action will be initiated against them if charges against them were proved,” the DVAC official said.
 
