GURUGRAM: The department of town and country planning (DTCP) has begun a survey in   to identify residential properties being used illegally for commercial purposes. Around 160 such properties have already been identified, and the department intends to issue notices to the owners by next week. The properties of those who fail to comply with land use norms will be sealed, DTCP officials said. 

 The survey was started after residents of The Villas and DLF Oakwood Estate, both of which are located in DLF 2, wrote to the CM Window over the matter. So far, DTCP junior engineers have shortlisted 159 such properties, all of which are residential houses operating as commercial establishments. According to an estimate, close to 10% of residential houses in DLF 2 have been converted into shops, service centres, salons, boutiques, gymnasiums and paying guest accommodations.
 
 The application submitted by residents at the CM Window, dated March 24, states that illegal commercial establishments “have become dens for all kinds of nefarious activities like drinking, drug taking, gambling and even prostitution… Besides this, there is a severe stress on infrastructure like electricity, water, etc, as these were designed for residential use”. 
 
 “These commercial establishments are violating Master Plan and land use provisions. Far too many vehicles are parked on the lanes next to these establishments, and we face traffic snarls daily due to these. Around 3,000 residents are suffering. There have been several incidents of snatching. We’re afraid to let our children go out and play, and women can’t roam around freely,” said  , an architect who lives in the area. 
 
 Rohit Marwah, another resident, said: “Due to these shops, there is a lot unwarranted and unidentified footfall in the area. Some places have ‘bring your booze’ offers, and there is a lot of drinking in public areas. Guest houses are renting out rooms to couples by the hour.”
 
 Moreover, these commercial activities are being done on arterial roads which are only 18m-wide, creating traffic congestion. 
 
 “We have received the complaint filed at the CM Window, and have begun a survey to identify residential properties with illegal commercial activities. By next week, we will send out notices to all land use violators,” said Amit Madholia, assistant town planner, DTCP.
 
 
 
