THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: With higher education institutions in the state continuing their lack lustre performance,   seems to be emerging as an alternative for instilling them with fresh energy. But the road to autonomy does not seem to be as easy as it was thought to be.

 The CPM-led   could not reject no objection certificates to two dozen engineering colleges which sought academic autonomy from the University Grants Commission (UGC). Since the higher-level financial assistance from the Union government is restricted to colleges with autonomous status, the state government was left with little choice. However, they have raised several arguments to convince the organizations of students and teachers that the autonomy under LDF rule would be something different and less harmful than what the   had proposed. 
  
 According to the government, the decision on academic autonomy for engineering colleges need not be dubbed as a dilution in the government stand. “Ninetynine percent of the institutions are in the government sector. Even while fighting indiscriminate autonomy promoted by the UGC and the Union government, the state need to claim the financial assistance. If the government had decided against giving autonomy to 24 engineering institutions, they would have lost financial assistance to the tune of Rs 240 crore,” said Rajan Gurukkal, vice-chairman, state higher education council. Since the autonomy is recommended predominantly for government institutions, there is no question of misuse, he said.
 
 However, the developments in self-financing education sector hints at other possible fallouts. Three self-financing colleges have already obtained favourable court orders against   Technological University’s denial of permanent affiliation to them. Permanent affiliation to colleges is a first step towards self-financing colleges seeking academic autonomy. “Look at the engineering colleges which have been recommended for academic autonomy. Many don’t have facilities to match self-financing colleges in the state. 
 
 It won’t be difficult for them to obtain autonomy with the help of   In short, the government wish to restrict autonomy only for government and aided institutions would not come true’’, said sources in the sector. According to the latest report prepared by the state higher education council, the functioning of institutions that have already got academic autonomy were not satisfactory. Instead of working towards academic excellence, their objectives were centred on commercialization and profit-making, the report said.
 
 The ABVP has demanded that the state government show more diligence while endorsing autonomous status to higher education institutions. “We are not against academic autonomy. But it should not be given to inferior institutions, just for the sake of claiming central funds’’, said Syam Raj, state secretary, ABVP.
 
