ASANSOL: The first signs of life limping back to normal in   and   were evident on Saturday after week-long violent clashes sparked since Sunday's   procession kept communities apart and people, barring rioters, indoors. People ventured out of their homes as shops reopened in both Asansol and Ranigunj where shoppers from both communities showed signs of gradually overcoming suspicion and distrust towards each other and buying their essentials from the same markets. Buses and auto rickshaws plied in both towns, albeit sparsely. Private vehicles, though, were few and far between, barring the odd motorbike. 

 Though tension is still palpable, particularly with Saturday's   celebrations, police and security forces remained on alert to prevent any further clashes. Despite prohibitory orders, Hanuman Jayanti processions were allowed in areas on the fringes of Asansol and Ranigunj towns.
 
 As TOI toured both Ranigunj and Asansol since morning, women clad in Burkhas and their counterparts sporting 'sakhas' and 'palas' (bangles worn by married Hindu Bengali women) mingled together in markets and were seen buying from the same shops, a marked change from the last few days when people from different faiths looked upon each other as potential attackers. Most shops in Asansol Main Bazaar along GT Road reopened, though a few downed shutters were also seen. The cash registers in the wholesale market in adjoining   started ringing again though not at optimum level. 
 
 The Asansol railway station, that wore a deserted look for the last few days, once again witnessed commuters boarding and getting off trains. The same scene prevailed at Ranigunj too. But with prohibitory orders under Section 144 CrPC still in force in both towns and police randomly asking people for their identity cards, commuter numbers were far from normal. 
 
 Asansol Bus Association secretary Prakash Chandra Mondol said, “Drivers and helpers are still scared but have started reporting for work. We have re-started bus services on all routes though we carried only half the passengers we normally do. While people in Asansol set out of their homes and commuted, people from other districts who normally come to our town on work or business every day didn’t turn up.”
 
 SDO Asansol Pralay Roy Choudhuri said, “The situation is back to normal in Asansol. Buses and other public transport plied, markets reopened and people have started going about their daily lives.” More midlevel officers were inducted into the Asansol Durgapur Commisssionerate with the addition of two ACPs.”
 
 
 
