VADODARA: The movement of goods on the   hill came to a grinding halt after donkey owners stopped work to protest the district administration's decision to strictly implement The Prevention of Cruelty to Draught and Pack Animals Rules . 

 Donkeys are the only means of transportation on the hill beyond  , the last motorable point. Under these rules, weight of more than 50kg cannot be carried on a donkey. The owners believe that at the present rate, they will not be able to earn enough to support the animals and their families.
 
 Sanjay Rana, a donkey owner, "The rates paid to us presently are not enough if we are to carry only 50kg goods on our animal. At the other end, there is fear of cases being registered against us if we carry more weight." Rana said that presently, the donkey owners were not in the favour of resuming work immediately.
 
 Sources said that the amount charged by the donkey owners was not standardized. It varied on the kind of goods and the need of the person whose goods have to be carried. For instance, the rate of carrying a single gas cylinder ranged from Rs 30 to Rs 40.
 
 Ashok Joshi, Pavagadh's deputy sarpanch, who also operates a restaurant on the hill, said that there were practical difficulties in implementing the rules. "A single gas cylinder weighs around 31kg. If the present law is implemented, a donkey would carry only one cylinder. Same is the case with coconuts as a single packing of coconuts comprises of 65 to 70 coconuts. The donkey can carry only one such lot," he said.
 
 Joshi said that if the donkeys did not work, there would be issues of supply of milk, cooking gas, provisions and other necessary items. "Even on Wednesday, many had to use milk powder instead of fresh milk," said Joshi. He added that even the material for the ongoing Pavagadh development project was being transported using donkeys.
 
 An official of the district administration said that the traders have to realize that they will have to start giving fair rates. "The dust will settle soon and the system will start moving again. These are small issues that should be sorted out to ensure that mute animals do not face cruelty," the official added.
 
 There are close to 335 donkeys in Pavagadh and around 250 shops.
 
 
