NEW DELHI: Over 10 lakh   are pending in 24 high   across the country for more than 10 years, many of them pending disposal for 20 years and more, according to information released by the government.

 
 If we add to the list of decade-old cases those which are pending for a period between five and 10 years, then such pendencies constitute almost 50% of the total 42.69 lakh cases yet to be disposed of in the 24 high courts (HCs).
 
 The Allahabad   tops the list among the HCs with worst records dealing with pendency. With 2.67 lakh cases pending for 10 years and more, the country's largest high court has almost 38% of its total pending cases falling in this category.
 
  
  
 
 The high courts of Bombay; Punjab and Haryana; Calcutta; Rajasthan; Madhya Pradesh; Telangana and Andhra Pradesh; Madras; Orissa and Patna, in that order, are the HCs which have highest pendency of cases older than 10 years.
 
 Interestingly, many of these cases have experienced long and repeated adjournments, which are also in conflict with the provisions laid down in the law. According to amendments carried out in the Civil Procedure Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure, no judge can give repeated adjournments in a case, not more than three, unless it is extremely unavoidable. For each adjournment, the judge has to furnish reasons for the same.
 
 Besides, the large pendencies of decade-old cases in HCs have little justification, particularly in view of the fact that these HCs together have been disposing of over 1.24 lakh cases every month, of which cases older than 10 years constitute just around 8,000, or merely 6%.
 
 The matter of reforming the justice delivery system has been deliberated upon several times. After the chief justices of high courts conference of 2015 in Delhi, it was resolved to set up an arrears committee in each of the 24 HCs and the SC and prepare an action plan to clear all backlog of cases pending for over five years.
 
 However, despite the issue being discussed repeatedly between the government and the apex court, not much progress has been noticed as evident from the fact that merely 6% of the cases disposed of by the HCs every month are those pending for over 10 years.
 
 The apex court, too, has a monitoring mechanism by way of an arrears committee which has two judges of the SC as its members to look at the progress made by each of the HCs and the subordinate courts under them in reducing pendency of cases older than five years. But, largely, the reforms have been relegated to the subordinate courts and the district courts which in many states have reduced the pendency of decade-old cases to almost zero.
 
 Haryana, Punjab, Himachal, Kerala and Chandigarh are among the states and the union territory which have managed to dispose of almost all their cases in subordinate courts pending for a decade or more. There are five other states which have brought it to almost 1% of all their pending cases in lower courts. There are 2.67 crore cases pending in about 17,000 subordinate courts across the country, of which 22.62 lakh cases are pending for more than 10 years.
 
