CHANDIGARH: V S Kundu , IAS officer and father of the complainant   Kundu in the high profile   case volunteered before the court and stated that the the call and presence of Haryana BJP spokesperson Krishan Dhull at the police station along with supporters had triggered “fear” in him as Dhull had called him up at 3.40 am on August 5 and told him that one of the accused is son of Haryana BJP Chief  .

 According to him, this forced him to call his relatives at the police station as well . He further volunteered that it’s not them but the accused who are politicising the issue to which the defence advocate objected to Kundu volunteering the statement and stating it as a “unique trial” and pleaded to the court to “ not to be a silent spectator.”
 
 Names of ex DGP Haryana Ranjit Dalal, former home Minister of Haryana Mani Ram Godara , Haryana DSP   , Chandigarh police DSP Satish Kumar and S S P traffic Shashank Anand also cropped up during the cross examination. Meanwhile the cross examination of V S Kundu was concluded on Tuesday and the matter is adjourned for February 20.
 
 High drama was witnessed in the court after V S Kundu volunteered in the court while the defence was asking him questions during the cross examination. Kundu said the the defence has been making allegation against him of misusing the entire bureaucracy and pressurising Chandigarh police and politicising the incident but it’s the accused side who have been adding political colour to it. He further took the name of Dhull ans said he called him up and was also present in the police station with his supporters .He further added that its Dhull who furnished bail bonds of the accused Vikas Barala and Ashish Kumar there. To this, defence advocate Rabindra Pandit objected and stated that its a unique kind of a trial where the witnesses are volunteering the statement to cover up their grey points at the end of conclusion of cross examination.
 
 Kundu refuted all the allegations that he lobbied and put pressure on Chandigarh police to constitute SIT on the issue and get DSP Satish Yadav appointed as an investigation officer in this case. It was pointed out by the defence during the cross examination that DSP Satish Yadav and Traffic SSP of UT Police Shashank Anand are sons-in-law of former Haryana DGP Ranjit Dalal with whom Kundu has close association because they were together at the Lal Bahadur Shastri National Academy of Administration (LBSNAA) in Mussoorie . The defence had alleged that that Satish Kumar was appointed at Kundu’s instance, so as to fabricate the investigation process. 
 
 Kundu agreed to the fact that retired IPS officer   is his brother-in-law who is also the nephew of former home minister of Haryana, Mani Ram Godara but refuted the allegations of misusing his contacts and falsely implicating the accused .
 
 Kundu stated that he could not recall that DSP Vijay Kumar of Haryana Police was in touch with Varnika Kundu over the phone while she was going to record her statement before the magistrate .
 
 The matter is adjourned till February 20 when the remaining witness would record the statements
 
 Meanwhile Vikas was seen reciting mantras silently during the court proceedings and looked confident while Ashish looked meek.
 
 
 
 
 V S Kundu volunteers before the court
 
 He claims the presence of Haryana BJP spokesperson Krishan Dhull at the police station along with his supporters had triggered “fear” in him 
 
 He said it’s the accused who are politicising the issue and not him
 
 Defence lawyer objects to it and calls it a unique trial
 
 Kundu refutes allegations of misusing his contacts and putting pressure on Chandigarh police 
 
 The matter is adjourned till February 20 when the remaining witness would record the statements
 
 
