KOLKATA: Those who say T20 is a game for the young legs should learn a thing or two from Chennai Super Kings. In spite of being the oldest side - in terms of average age of players in this   - they have looked the most well-organised unit so far. No wonder they are at the top of the table with 12 points from eight matches.

 
 
 
 Back after a two-year ban, CSK seem to be making up for the lost time and are racing to claiming a playoff berth. On the contrary, Kolkata Knight Riders, their opponents at the Eden Gardens on Thursday, find themselves in the middle of the table with eight points from as many matches, still left with a huge task to make it to the playoffs.
 
 
 
 KKR had made a good start to their campaign and were even briefly on top of the table. But they have since slipped and now find themselves in a dog-fight with three other teams to make it to the knock-out round.
 
 It will be a tough challenge for KKR’s bowling unit to stop CSK’s power-packed batting unit. Both Shane Watson and skipper   have turned the clock back to emerge among the most destructive batsmen on view in this IPL. However, it is Ambati Rayudu who has emerged as CSK’s real hero with his amazing consistency. He has not only scored in every match, but has also adapted well to different situations as well as batting positions.
 
 Even Faf du Plessis harped on this aspect after the team’s last match. “Rayudu’s flexibility has impressed me. You can put him at any position from No.1 to No. 11. He will score runs,” he had said.
 
 The team got a good replacement for the injured Deepak Chahar in Lungi Ngidi who bowled superbly in the Powerplay as well as at the death against Delhi Daredevils. The South African’s pace and bounce might come handy for Dhoni on the Eden pitch. Interestingly, CSK have consciously rotated their players keeping in mind that they will be playing their fourth match in eight days.
 
 While it will be difficult to stop the CSK batsmen, KKR will, no doubt look to attack their rivals’ bowling which has not been anything but consistent. KKR have put up 200-plus scores twice this season. With Chris Lynn looking to bat through the innings, KKR will rely on Sunil Narine to provide them with a flying start and for others to capitalise on it.
 
 The main problem for KKR has been their batsmen, including the likes of Robin Uthappa, Nitish Rana and Dinesh Karthik, have not been able to convert good starts into big scores. Much will thus on depend on Andre Russell, who can make a difference both with the bat and the ball. He had fired on certain occasions, but KKR will need him to consistently come good if they are to make the playoffs.
 
 Both sides will also have to keep one eye on the sky as the Met department has forecast scattered showers in the city on Thursday.
 
