CHANDIGARH: The shortage of senior IAS (Indian Administrative Service) officers in the city is going to go from bad from worse when two more of them complete their tenure by the end of this month.

 While already the posts of municipal commissioner and managing director of Citco (Chandigarh Industrial and Tourism Development Corporation) are vacant for two IAS officers and currently held by some other officers as additional charge, the name of a new IAS officer for the post of home secretary is also to be finalised by the central government.
 
 
  
 
 The two senior IAS officers who are going to leave the city in a few days are Chandigarh Housing Board chairman   and KK Jindal, who has been holding multiple crucial offices of secretary of the transport, personnel, hospitality, and vigilance departments.
 
 Maninder Singh is going to complete his three years of deputation period on March 22, while Jindal is due to retire on March 31. A 2009-batch IAS officer,  , who joined the Chandigarh Administration in December 2017, has also left the city a few days ago, adding to the shortage of IAS officers here. She was holding the charge of chief executive officer of the housing board along with some other offices.
 
 With the absence of Maninder Singh and Jindal, the UT will be short of at least five IAS officers and require their early replacement. Senior officers of the   hope that the Union ministry of home affairs will take cognizance of it and send over some senior bureaucrats. “The matter related to the clearance of the names on the earlier recommended panel for the post of municipal commissioner and CITCO managing director is pending with the central government and, we have been told, is on the final stage of approval. Hopefully, we will get the new officers soon,” said a source in the Chandigarh Administration.
 
 Currently, IAS officers Bansi Lal Sharma, Jitender Yadav and Harish Nayyar hold the additional charge of Citco managing director, municipal commissioner, and housing board chief executive officer, respectively.
 
 The Chandigarh Administration is all set to witness a crucial reshuffle by the starting of the next month, all due to this scarcity of the senior officers. The IAS officers that remain on the team are likely to be burdened with the charge of more departments until the joining of the new officers.
 
 UT home secretary Anurag Agarwal’s three-year term has also ended, but looking at the paucity of IAS officers, the Centre already has issued orders for him to stay until the joining of a new officer. A 1992-batch Haryana cadre IAS officer,  , is leading the race for the post of new home secretary, while Punjab-cadre IAS officer   is frontrunner for municipal commissioner. Several bureaucrats have been burdened with dual charge or in some cases the work of more than two departments.
 
 
