Chandigarh: Considering that one school-based midday meal kitchen has to now provide food to 2-4 government schools in the area, the UT education department is planning to extend the concept of kitchen gardens to these schools as well so that more students can benefit from organic school-grown vegetables. An order in this regard may be passed in the next few days, official sources said.

 TOI had reported last year how some of the government schools in the city are turning into professional mini farms by producing tonnes of seasonal vegetables, onions and coriander in a small corner on their premises. The best part is that these vegetables, which are grown using natural fertilizers and pesticides, are used in the midday meal kitchen of these schools to add to the nutritional value of food. This initiative has also been appreciated by the ministry of human resource development. 
 
 Till last year, these schools were providing midday meal to their students, but since last year they have been asked to provide midday meal to other schools as well and this is the reason why these educational institutes have fallen short of vegetables grown in their kitchen gardens. 
 
 These schools have been growing vegetables like spinach, coriander chillies, raddish and carrot and using the same midday meal. The fenugreek (methi) is kneaded in flour, while spinach, radish and carrot are used in dal or as vegetable, or given as salad. Coriander adds to the flavour of the food.
 
 The idea was initially floated in one of the meetings taken by the education department when the midday meal kitchens were built in seven schools, including Government Model Senior Secondary School (GMSSS), sector 26; GMSSS-10, GMSSS-15, GMSSS-44, GMSSS-47, Government Model High School (GMHS)-38 and GMHS 42 in 2013.
 
 These schools grow something or the other in every season. So far, the school have grown several kilos of onions, 3.5 quintals of pumpkin, quintals of bottle gourds, huge amount of coriander, chillies, spinach, brinjal and peas this session alone in their kitchen gardens.
 
 Recently, kitchen garden at GMSSS-47 produced 170 kg onions. The school was the first one to take up the concept of kitchen garden seriously. Naib Singh, who is a teacher at the school and also takes care of the kitchen garden, said, “The best part is that the activity also connects students to farming roots. This is like an activity for students that will keep them busy, their energy well-utilized and connected to their roots.” He added that it was with the support of school principal Anita Khanna that they were able to dedicated time for the school kitchen garden.
 
 Director school education Rubinderjit Singh Brar said, “We are planning to ask other schools to pitch in as earlier these seven schools were preparing meal for lesser students and, thus, the organic produce was sufficient, but now the children have multiplied so the other schools taking the midday meal should also participate in the activity.”
 
 
