Bhopal: Faced with a barrage of criticism for failing to anticipate violence during the Dalit-called Bharat bandh on Monday, senior officials in the administration in Bhopal insisted that it wasn’t intelligence failure but slackness to act on it that led to anarchy and eight deaths.

 Officials in Bhopal sought to pin the blame on local administration. Memories of last year’s violent farmer agitation — which had taken the government by surprise — are still raw and senior officials baulk at the mention of intelligence failure. 
 
 “Despite giving two specific intelligence alerts, the local administration in Gwalior-Chambal region failed to gauge the situation, leading to widespread violence. Instead of police stopping the protesters before they could assemble, it turned into a struggle between members of different castes where police were just spectators,” said a senior secretariat official. Police did take action, but it was clear from the way the flames spread that they were scrambling around blindly.
 
 Another question being widely discussed in the corridors of power on Tuesday was why had no top police officer or bureaucrat visited the affected areas. One official went so far as to say that violence flared up in other BJP-ruled states — Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Maharashtra — too, but “MP caught national attention because of the deaths”.
 
 There is sizeable population of Dalits in Gwalior-Chambal regions adjoining UP. Protesters had begun assembling in the days leading up to the bandh, and certain right-wing group circulated messages on social media on the eve to oppose the shutdown. Officials admitted to TOI that the stage was set for this confrontation for a while. Dalit groups were upset over violence against Scheduled Castes, the dilution in Prevention of Atrocities on SC/ST Act and desecration of Ambedkar statues. Upper castes, on the other hand, have been more vocal of late against reservations in jobs.
 
 There was enough indication that trouble was brewing, but the government failed to save lives. 
 
 It was after all hell broke loose in Gwalior, Bhind and Morena that top officials went into a huddle in Bhopal. CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan learnt of the violence when he was attending the passing-out parade of police officers. He rushed to the secretariat and called an emergency meeting. Live footage of violence was playing out on TV sets in the chamber when he and top officials gathered to plan a strategy to regain control. The CM, chief secretary and DGP had multiple meetings on Monday. The CM was in the secretariat between 11am and 1.30pm. Public relations minister Narottam Mishra had a scheduled media interaction at 1pm on Monday, but cancelled it though he was in the secretariat. The CM had two more meetings with the chief secretary and DGP at his residence in the evening and late at night. But the eight lives were already lost.
 
 
