KOLKATA: Arsonists allegedly set fire to two hatchback cars in Paddapukur on Wednesday. One of the cars was gutted while the rear portion of the other was extensively damaged.

 The gutted car’s owner, Rahmat   (35), alleged that certain local arsonists had set his car on fire. Hossain, a shoe manufacturing unit owner, said they were angry that his car’s parking spot obstructed their “illegal” business of inter-state bus operation.
 
 The incident occurred between 3.30am and 4.30am at 55, Dr Sundari Mohan Avenue in front of   hotel. The Beniapukur police have registered a complaint in this regard.
 
 Hossain said he had been parking his car in front of Centre Point hotel for the past two-and-a-half years. “My house is in a narrow lane, barely 30 metres away. The locals know that I park my car there. Recently, we found out that buses to   would leave from here every night. More than passengers, they carry huge amounts of goods. The entire operation is illegal,” he claimed. 
 
  “We protested when they began blocking our entry to Sundari Mohan Avenue. This had irked them,” he said. 
 
 Hossain said he had returned home after servicing his car around 10.30pm on Tuesday and left all necessary documents such as licence, Blue book and insurance papers inside the car. “Around 4.15am, some youths rushed to my residence and informed me that my car was on fire. After the fire brigade managed to douse the fire, I found jute bags soaked in Kerosene lying inside and below the car. This is a deliberate case of arson,” he said.
 
 Owner of the other car   (29) — a footwear trader — had parked his car right next to Hossain’s. He supported Hossain saying he never faced any problem while parking the car at the exact spot for the past eight years. “I am not sure how the fire broke out, but if raising one’s voice can result in such arson, I am worried,” he said.
 
 Police said they are examining   footages from two private sources along with those from the cameras on   for leads. DC (southeast) Kalyan Mukherjee said, “A team of forensic experts have collected evidence from the spot to find out the cause of the fire.”
 
 Locals appeared to be equally clueless.  , a local resident, said, “There may have been issues concerning the parking spot, but we never saw anyone objecting to cars being parked near the hotel. Goods that are loaded on the buses lie around on the footpath where the cars are parked. But this is not the way to settle enmity,” said .
 
 
