Kolkata: The ministry of defence has decided to restore free rations to military officers in peace postings, nearly a year after TOI reported on a senior   officer’s letter to the government through defence secretary Sanjay Mitra threatening to move court. 

 For a start, officers in peace postings can apply for ration money allowance of Rs 97.85 per day with retrospective effect from July 1, 2017. According to sources, the Army headquarters has also recommended to the government that physical rations be issued to officers in peace postings.
 
 “Earlier, officers in field as well as peace postings were eligible for free rations. It was decided that free rations to officers in peace postings would be withdrawn from July 1, 2017. Such officers could only draw ration money allowance of Rs 96.03 per day, it was decided. On receiving this information, Col Mukul Dev, then deputy Judge Advocate General of Headquarters 12 Corps, threatened to move court if the order was not reversed within 60 days. After this, neither was ration money allowance released by the government, nor physical rations,” a senior officer said.
 
 “Now, it has been announced that we can start applying for ration money allowance. There is also information that the process has started of issuing physical rations at peace postings as well,” the officer added.
 
 Under the new scheme, officers in peace postings will be eligible to claim Rs 35,715.25 as ration money allowance on June 30, 2018. Most officers aren’t satisfied with this and want supply of physical rations to resume as soon as possible. 
 
 “The sum of Rs 97.85 per day was calculated based on wholesale rates. When we purchase from the market, we don’t get things at these rates. According to our calculations, the ration money allowance should be upwards of Rs 200 per day,” another officer said.
 
 Most officers agree with Col Dev’s contention that when they joined the Army, besides other terms and conditions of service clearly spelt out, there was the provision of free rations. The government’s decision to offer a paltry sum in lieu of free rations violates the basic terms and conditions of service on which they were employed and commissioned. 
 
 Officers staying in peace postings away from families used to ask messes to collect rations on their behalf and would pay a small sum as table money. Now, they have to pay nearly Rs 200 per day for food out of their own pockets.
 
 
