MUMBAI: In a setback to a founding trustee of an international school in the city, the   on Friday rejected his plea to remain out on bail in a case of alleged sexual assault on a three-year-old student.

 The trustee, a 57-year-old  , had moved the SC against a   order which cancelled bail granted to him last November by a trial court judge. The SC observed that in a child sexual abuse case, bail cannot be granted “just like that” and refused to interfere with the HC order which had also expedited the trial. 
 
 A bench of Justices AK Sikri and Ashok Bhushan, however, agreed to one request of his counsel Indu Malhotra and granted the accused three days to surrender. The trustee had been directed by the HC to surrender before an assistant police commissioner in Mumbai’s Meghwadi division. He now has till Monday to surrender and be sent to judicial custody.
 
 The trial has to conclude in four months the HC had ordered and the SC observed verbally that if there was any change in circumstances, he was at liberty to apply again. 
 
 The hearing before SC significantly saw 350 parents, alumni and their parents intervene in support of the accused. Their counsel Siddharth Luthra argued: “He has an unblemished record; without him the institution can’t function.” Shiby Mathews, a parent, said: “We believe that truth will triumph. We...will stand by the school...for there can be no place better and safer for our children than this school.” There was also a group of seven parents who supported the parent who had filed the FIR and their counsel Aparna Bhat argued that in the next three days, till his surrender, the trustee may not be allowed to attend school. The SC agreed and issued a directive. Nithya Ramakrishnan, counsel for the parent who had registered the FIR, didn’t have to argue. 
 
 The HC order of April 2 was made available on April 6, when the SC granted him interim relief and kept his petition for hearing on April 13. 
 
 The girl’s mother, who had registered the FIR last May against the trustee and a teacher, had moved the HC for cancellation of his bail granted on November 24, 2017. Justice Revati Mohite-Dere of the Bombay HC had termed “perverse and unsustainable’’ the bail granted to the trustee after 18 days in custody. “The facts reveal that prima facie there is overwhelming incriminating evidence (against the trustee)…” said the HC, and rapped police for calling a child witness to police station contrary to provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act , which requires police to visit the child's residence.
 
 On hearing the SC order, Ruth Mehta, trustee and in-charge of the school, expressed shock and said. “We, at the school, will continue to do what we have always done—keep the interest and safety of our children as topmost priority and ensure they continue to receive education with the warmth and dedication they always have.” 
 
 
