HYDERABAD: Chief minister   on Thursday met Union finance minister   in New Delhi and urged to release the grants announced for backward districts in Telangana for the year 2017-18.

 “The funds have not been released yet though the financial year is coming to an end,” the CM told Jaitley. He asked the union minister to direct officials to release the amount immediately.   pointed out that section 92 (2) of the   Act, 2014 provides for central assistance to development of backward areas in the state.
 
 
 
 
 In accordance with these provisions, the Telangana government had submitted proposals to the Centre for special package for development of nine out of 10 districts of Telangana. He thanked the Centre for identifying nine rural districts in the state as backward and for sanctioning funds.
 
 During 2014-15, the Centre granted ₹450 crore which was released in February 2016 and during 2015-16, ₹450 crore was granted but released in December 2016. A similar amount granted for 2016-17 was released in August 2017. TRS floor leader in the Lok Sabha A P Jitender Reddy and advisor to state government Rajiv Sharma were also with the chief minister when he met Arun Jaitley.
 
 The chief minister reminded the finance minister about the promises made by the Centre to Telangana. He said an AIIMS like hospital promised earlier, was yet to be sanctioned. The CM said the Telangana government would provide the necessary land for the hospital. He also said an   (IIM) had been promised when Smriti Irani was HRD minister, but nothing has happened on that front too.
 
 The CM will be in New Delhi on Friday and if a meeting with Prime Minister Narendra Modi materialises, he will take up more issues of the state. He will once again bring to the notice of Modi the financial needs of the state in the wake of many under-construction projects.
 
 Deputy chief minister Kadiam Srihari will also be in Delhi on Friday and call on President Ramnath Kovind. This is being described as a 'courtesy call'. He will meet Union human resources development minister Prakash Javdekar in the afternoon.
 
