CHENNAI: In a chilling incident, the second of its kind in a little more than two months, a group of swordwielding students from a city college attacked a few students of a ‘rival’ institution at   near Ambattur on Tuesday afternoon, leaving three students injured. Government Railway Police (GRP) arrested a Pachaiyappa’s College student and launched a hunt for a few others.

 Police, quoting from witness accounts, said the attackers, some of them with their faces masked and each carrying swords at least two-foot long, had turned upon the victims even as the train was between Ambattur and Pattaravakkam stations. As the train rolled on to a platform at Pattaravakkam, the assailants ran after the terrified victims, leaving dozens of commuters cowering in fear.
 
 The injured were identified as Presidency College students Jagadeesan, 18, Dinesh, 19 and Vijay, 18, all residents of Tiruvallur and nearby areas. A GRP officer said, “We received only complaints from Jagadeesan and Dinesh. During inquiries, they said a student named Vijay was also injured in the attack.”
 
 The three injured youths were treated as out-patients at a private hospital in   and sent home. “We are questioning them further to know if any other students were also injured in the attack,” another officer said. A case was registered and  , 18, a first year B Sc (zoology) student of Pachaiyappa’s College. A court is to send him to prison on Wednesday.
 
 Chennai Central deputy superintendent of police A   and GRP inspector of Perambur Pachaimal rushed to Pattaravakkam Railway Station and some railway staff and commuters.
 
 “We are working on detailed plans to put an end to these incidents,” said additional director general of police C Sylendra Babu of the GRP. Several bad elements among students stay calm whenever the police presence is strong and only muster courage to create trouble when there are no law enforcers around, he said.
 
 A similar incident occurred around two months ago, and after the video went viral, the railway police nabbed a few students and let them off after issuing a warning.
 
