Jamaican singer-songwriter Bob Marley sang for the unity of the African people his whole life. In 2000, Cuban president Fidel Castro unveiled John Lennon’s statue by praising the Beatles star as a revolutionary. Their stories tell us that music has the power to fight social and cultural hierarchies in society. And of late, it has been a tool through which awareness is created among people about issues starting from environmental degradation to climate change. A similar initiative is "Theeranadhi", a music   which brings out the plight of farmers of Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Maharashtra through traditional and dance and folk music forms of the respective states. 

 Directed by T Divakaran, an assistant professor at Pune-based Film and Television Institute of India, the six-and-a-half-minute video will be released in a couple of weeks. 
 
 The video covers the issues of the three states — the   issue, the   controversy and the drought and   in Vidarbha. Dancer Subhashini Goda narrates the Cauvery issue in Tamil Nadu through her Bhararatanatyam sequence and S Jijoy introduces the issues of Endosulfan thorough Theyyam, a traditional folk dance form of Kerala. The   part is enacted though the ancient Mahabharata way of storytelling once prevalent in the state.
 
 In the Tamil Nadu sequence, the river Cauvery, considered the lifeline of the state, is portrayed as a beautiful girl in the beginning. The sequence goes on to highlight the valour of the kings of the Tamil history - the Pallavas, the Cholas, the Cheras and the Pandyas. "The second part second part of the sequence narrates the issue faced by the farmers due to the ongoing Cauvery dispute. The third part raises a question to the perpetrators. Here, the presentation of Bharatanatyam differs a little from the classical form by being set to folk music called Temmangu," says Divakaran. 
 
 More than 20 years of aerial spraying of pesticide on cashew plantations in Kerala has resulted in a number of health disorders in the state’s Kasaragod district. "We follow a three-part structure here too using Theyyam," says Divakaran. "The performer, dressed in tribal attire, describes the beauty of Kerala in the first part. He praises social reformer Ayyankali and his efforts to bring equality among people. The performance talks about the growing health issues due to aerial spraying of Endosulfan and how it has affected the state," he adds. 
 
 The Vidarbha region of Maharashtra is highlighted through the traditional way of presentation of the epic Mahabharata. The region is portrayed as a woman called Mumba Devi. "Once a major food cultivating area to many, the region is now letting its own people to die by consuming rat meat. It has witnessed the highest amount of farmer suicides," says Divakaran. 
 
 The video has been shot in scenic parts of the Konkan region, Satara and the FTII Pune premises. It includes intercuts of original footage shots in these regions that were clicked during the crisis. The script has a 24-hour time span. "While this presentation seeks to present the issue and raise pertinent questions, it does not preach any solution to it. I hope that the questions raised would prompt the audience to seek solutions actively," he says. 
 
 
