BENGALURU: Meese Thimmaiah – the traffic cop with a twirling mustache – gazes down from billboards and up from newspaper ads, with a witty warning and some advice to commuters. He’s on the radio as well, delivering his message in catchy jingles. The Bengaluru Traffic Police’s (BTP) mascot made its debut in June last year, more than 22 years after the inspiration behind it – head constable Meese Thimmaiah – died saving a child from a speeding tempo.

 
 The National Road Safety Week 2018 is under way and until January 17, Meese Thimmaiah will continue to be synonymous with traffic rules and road safety.
 
 But while the braveheart cop continues to make Bengalureans smile, to his family, the campaign is a cruel reminder of the showery afternoon of August 26, 1995, a Saturday, when Thimmaiah came under the wheels of a van near the   (GPO) and their struggle since.
 
 Thimmaiah’s wife, Lakshmi Devamma alias Lakshmanamma, is a section assistant at the   office of the state’s department of industries and commerce. The Meese Thimmaiah campaign, she told STOI, was a surprise to her, and far from a pleasant one.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Devamma is angry about her husband’s image being turned into a cartoon and splashed all over the city without hers or the family’s consent. “I came to know only through some hoardings I spotted on the road while going to work. I’m really hurt by the police department for which my husband gave his life. They did not bother to even consult us, let alone invite us for the gala unveiling of my husband’s image as the face of traffic awareness,” Devamma said over phone. She refused to meet STOI, saying she did not want to have anything to do with the traffic police’s campaign.
 
 Thimmaiah, known as Marichikaiah Thimmaiah of Tumakuru, left behind three young kids at the time of his death. The family’s only asset was a tiny house in   which he built and lived in for all of two months.
 
 “I remember his big moustache and his uniform. He used to help me with my homework and walked my brother and me to school in   before heading for duty,” said Arun Kumar, Thimmaiah’s younger son. “I have very few memories of the man who is a famous name in Bengaluru then and now.”
 
 
 
 
 Having joined the police service in 1977, Thimmaiah served the longest in Bengaluru and mainly on the circle near GPO. “One could say he was the most famous traffic cop in Bengaluru in the ‘90s. He was always seen at the GPO circle maintaining traffic. Anyone passing that way couldn’t have missed the short and stout, large-moustached Thimmaiah who was the darling of city and a terror to lawbreakers on the road,” said Vemagal Somashekar, city historian and author.
 
 Old-timers remember Thimmaiah dealing with footboard travellers on city buses, drunken drivers and traffic rule violators with his long lathi. He was well known among the many staffers of government offices in the vicinity and kids loved him too despite his big twirling whiskers.
 
 BC Basavaraj, a retired section officer with the Karnataka High Court, remembers the day when the beloved cop was mowed down by a van after he saved a young girl crossing the road near  . “It was the talk among all government employees in the area. They were extremely saddened by his shocking demise. He was a very honest policeman who was dedicated to his duty. We were all grieving for days,” said the 68-year-old.
 
 
 
 
 The state government posthumously felicitated Thimmaiah for his act of valour and three years later, his wife was given a job with the department of industries and commerce after she toiled at a garment manufacturing firm in the city. “The traffic police department has not bothered to even check on how their iconic cop’s family is living. Voices of poor policemen’s families and their struggles are never heard by higher-ups then and now,” Devamma lamented.
 
 With all the running around she had to do to land a job and make ends meet after Thimmaiah’s demise, Devamma developed an aversion towards the police job. “My mother was strictly against her children trying to join the force. She says the police department is never grateful even if one gives his or her life in service,” said Arun Kumar, who works as fitness trainer. His brother Venu Prasad is a cabbie in the city and sister Chaitra is a homemaker.
 
