Nagpur: Roshan Shaikh, 26, one of the four accused named in setting on fire an under-construction bar-cum-restaurant in a building at Law College square, Amravati Road, in the wee hours of March 12, was held from passenger’s lounge at Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar International Airport on Wednesday through a flash operation.  A team of Sitabuldi cops, led by Senior PI Hemant Kharabe, rushed eight kilometres to airport from police station in almost as many minutes zipping through the evening traffic to pick up Shaikh as he was about to board a Jet Airways flight to Mumbai. He was set to flee to Dubai taking a connecting flight from Mumbai.  Kharabe, a former CBI officer, said they got alerted when Shaikh himself announced his flying to Mumbai on Facebook. With almost no time to spare, it started a hectic operation. “I had alerted the control room apart from informing my senior (DCP Rakesh Ola) about the accused on the verge of fleeing the city. The control room relayed the information to Sonegaon police station near the airport asking them to rush,” he said.  “Simultaneously, I alerted the airport authorities, Air Traffic Control (ATC) unit and also Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) while zipping in my official car towards airport. Two sub-inspectors and some constable were with me for support whom I almost dragged into the car before setting off,” said Kharabe. He added co-ordination between airport authorities and CISF helped. “The accused was headed for boarding when we reached the departure lounge. A CISF official helped us rush towards the gate from where the boarding was underway for Jet flight to Mumbai. Shaikh was nabbed barely five minutes before the flight was to take off,” he said.  During interrogation, Shaikh has named Ashutosh Mundhada (32), Irfan Khan (26) and Wajid Khan (26) as his accomplices whom the cops now have booked too in the same offence. Court has remanded Shaikh to police custody till March 31 after being presented before it. The cops also tried to nab the other accomplices but remained empty-handed so far.  Investigation officer PSI Nitin Vitole said Shaikh’s image was prominently captured in one of the CCTV cameras fitted towards the WHC road that had captured four persons including him fleeing. “Mundhada wanted to own the under-construction bar-and-restaurant with Pawan Nirbhan but he was replaced with Arjun Chhabra which might have triggered the enmity. Mundhada had brought about 35 litres of fuel from his petrol pump which he had stored in two drums on the fourth floor of the building where the fire was started,” said Vitole.  Police said they had already talked to Shaikh twice but he had furnished fake bills of a Mumbai hotels stating he was present there when the fire broke out. One of the hotels got back to Sitabuldi police stating their bill had been tampered with. “While Shaikh had claimed the bill was issued for a period between March 8 and 12 from a hotel at Sakinaka, the bills were actually issued during January and February. We were after him since,” Vitole said.