A few years ago, he quit his monotonous routine of sitting in a cubicle to buy a   and settle down in the quiet coastal town of Mulki. Popularly known as the Kayak Boy (he teaches the sport to locals and kayaking enthusiasts),   loves taking to the waters every day and recently realised a long-time dream. To stay put on the seas and go kayaking from the picturesque town of   to Mangaluru. He recently arrived in   after an exhilarating trip on what he describes “one of the most scenic coastlines of the country”.
 The idea to embark on the journey struck him last year while he was holidaying in Gokarna. “My friend and I rented a kayak and went to the various islands dotting the region and completed this trip in under six hours. It was such an uplifting ride and I thought why not undertake a journey on a longer route? I came back from Gokarna and started marking the route and preparing for the journey,” says Sushant. In early May, he began his journey from Karwar armed with basic luggage, plenty of water and more importantly brimming with enthusiasm. “Since it’s summer and dehydration is common especially in salty waters, stocking up on water was top priority. I’d start every day at sunrise and stop at the first sign of dusk,” he tells us. The waters of Karwar says Sushant, were a pleasure to navigate.
  “Every direction one looks it is nothing short of a postcard scenario. Emerald green islands, clear waters and virgin shores... I tried my best to capture them on my phone whenever I got some time off from rowing. But my pictures don’t do justice to the actual sight,” he smiles. Soon Sushant arrived in Bhatkal, which he terms as one of the more trying coastlines. “What made the journey tough were these giant rocks that have been put on the shore to prevent   erosion. That creates a precarious situation because of the absence of a natural shore for the waves to break on, thus making it a rocky ride. I had a trying time navigating those waters,” states Sushant. Bhatkal was also the place where he had to break his minutely-planned journey as a cyclone had hit the region. “The sea was getting choppy and the waves were getting huger by the passing hour, so since it was a dangerous period, I returned to land and also used the time to stock up on essentials,” he says.
  After a brief break, Sushant returned to the seas and continued on the planned route. “The best part was camping on the shores at night. Sometimes, it was just me in my tent on a tiny island with the stars for company and on days when no island was in sight, I’d camp on the sea shore close to the homes of fisherfolk. On such days, they’d offer me food while the rest of the time, I used to cook instant food on a tiny stove that I carried,” he tells us. There have been days where the waves have come right up to his tent and even washed away a few of his belongings like gloves and an oar. “That’s when I realised how on journeys like these, no supply can be called as indispensable; my hands had blisters when I tried to row without gloves so when I took that break in Bhatkal, I restocked on the gloves and oars,” smiles Sushant. A journey by sea has its own rhythm and moments and Sushant adds that while it’s been a slow and steady ride, he’s had some unforgettable experiences en route.
  “One day, I was lulled into sleep by the midday sun and when I suddenly woke up, a few metres away from me was the most magical sight; there were dolphins who were playfully tagging along my kayak and they kept leaping into the air and diving in as if teasing me to follow them. I captured it in a video because that remains one of the most surreal encounters I’ve had in the sea till date,” says a nostalgic Sushant. The Malpe sea walk, he says, is another pretty sight from the waters. “By the time I reached Udupi, I was very happy because I knew I’d be closing in on Mangaluru soon. The rest of the journey passed off in a dream and even though it couldn’t be completed in eight days as originally planned owing to the weather, it was a trip that was eye-opening and gratifying. Nature indeed is one of the most beautiful forces on this planet,” sums up Sushant, who is already planning a kayaking trip from Gujarat around India next year.
