HYDERABAD: Valentine’s Day celebrations in the city turned ugly, on Wednesday, after protesters affiliated to   rampaged through a mall in Kukatpally, and stormed hotels and eateries, forcing managements to roll back V-Day offers. Agitators burnt effigies at Abids crossroads and   to condemn the occasion, and maintained strict vigil outside parks.

 At the Manjeera Mall, Kukaptally, Bajrang Dal members were seen pulling down decorations and raising anti-Valentine Day slogans, forcing local police to intervene to bring the situation under control. A mob also gathered at The Park Hotel, Somajiguda, later in the evening, demanding that the management shelve February 14 programmes.
 
 
 “We left only after the hotel management and police promised that all Valentine Day offers will be scrapped,” said S Kailsah, convener of the Bajrang Dal’s local chapter. Sources at the hotel said the mob was cleared out within five minutes, with aid from the cops.
 
 Bajrang Dal’s onslaught on V-Day revellers began at midnight, with party workers disallowing couples from cutting a cake at People’s Plaza or traversing through the   stretch, and continued through the day. While there were no reports of violence against couples, agitators kept a close vigil on all recreational spaces including gardens and small food joints, forcing many to cancel their plans for the day. At  , the regular security cover was beefed up.
 
 “We are not stopping couples. We are questioning those walking in groups, especially guys,” said security personnel posted outside the park. Police teams in mufti were also pressed into action at public places, including shopping malls.
 
 The fear of trouble left several commercial establishments in the city counting their losses. “While we were expecting a heavy rush for the occasion, footfall has been very thin since Tuesday,” said the owner of a eatery on Necklace Road where the street vendors too complained of limited business through the day.
 
 But while Bajrang Dal members discouraged youth from indulging in the west-influenced V-Day festivities, members of the   (AISF) went all out to welcome couples with roses and   outside some malls and parks in the city.
 
