 Gurgaon became the host to a puppet show called A Button In My Head, presented by the puppeteer group Arriba las Hu! Manos from Chile and Argentina, at  . The show was performed and directed by   from Chile and   from Argentina in English. The 45-minute play was thoroughly enjoyed by the kids of Class I and II. The act had travelled across the globe and the puppeteers wanted to convey the personal impact this art had had on them, through this performance. 
 
  The show combined the traditional technique of glove puppetry with a contemporary twist. The first puppet of the story was Clott. A green hand that moved like a snake did not want Clott to be alive. So, the snake threw Clott very hard, breaking it into two halves. Since that day, a red button sticks out of Clott’s head. That button holds him together, but also makes him feel different from the rest. His sister Juana and his best friend Luchito bother him. He only finds shelter in his grandfather. Clott wishes to get rid of that button and be normal. But the green hand will do anything to get him unbuttoned. The story talks about the green hand’s plans for Clott and his family. What decision will Clott make? And will he get rid of his button?
 
 
  
  
 
  Talking about the story, the directors said, “The story talks about diversity, tolerating differences and that all of us are equal. Good and bad are inside us and it is our decision to decide what we want to be. Glove and hand puppets are very popular in  . We use hands, unlike strings, which is indirect manipulation of puppets.”
 
 
  
  
  The couple, who decided to travel together with their puppets instead of one moving into the other’s country, said, “The kids here were very expressive and communicative. We felt great performing here. Kids find life in these puppets, some of them even wanted to hug and kiss the characters and were very curious about them.” 
 
 
  
  
 
  The show was followed by a Q&A session, where the artists answered the kids’ questions, like how is a puppet made, the kinds of puppets available etc, to which Enrique replied, “Puppets and puppeteers are like God and humans. Puppets are bodies and our hands are their soul. They are imagined and created with a lot of thought.” 
 
  
  The puppet show in progress
 
 
  
  
 
  Monica Sagar, Principal, Shiv Nadar School, Gurgaon said, “Puppetry is a great medium to teach life lessons to children. It is a fun way of learning for the students. We were happy that we could give the students a glimpse of Latin American puppetry.”
 
 
  — Aurushi.Goswami@timesgroup.com
 
  
 
