KOLKATA: Madhyamik examinees, who appeared for their first-language  , was completely stumped to find multiple “out-of-syllabus” questions, collectively carrying 26 marks. For those students, utter confusion and anxiety reigned the very first day of the Class X boards exams that started off on March 12. But now, they have reasons to rejoice: The   ( ) has decided that whoever attempted to answer a compulsory question, which was indeed from outside the syllabus, will be given the entire marks that it carried, which is 12.

 The decision was taken after the examination committee and subject experts confirmed several questions were indeed out of syllabus, one of them being compulsory and that caused candidates considerable misery. The examinees spent a substantial amount of time, trying to answer them, but as they could not, they complained that they had missed out on at least 12 marks for no fault of theirs. “All students will be given the marks if s/he tried to answer the compulsory question,” said a Madhyamik board official. “It is one of the highest bonus marks in recent past to be given to candidates.”
 
 Of the total 11,02,098 Madhyamik candidates, as many as 50,000 students appeared for the Hindi paper. “It has been identified that several questions in Hindi first language paper, with a total marks of 26, were set from outside the syllabus. We have been instructed to award 12 marks as bonus, which was the weightage of a compulsory question. But there is still confusion over the remaining questions and marks. We have not yet received any instructions from the Madhyamik board about it,” said an examiner.
 
 But the headmaster of a government school felt apprehensive that this practice might set off a “dangerous trend”. “Those candidates with Hindi first language will automatically get an edge over others. Moreover, the question paper should have undergone multiple rounds of verification before being distributed to the students. It is unthinkable that the Madhyamik board is awarding such a huge bonus marks for a fault of its own,” he said.
 
 On the very first day of the boards exam, as complaints started pouring in, WBBSE president   had said they had requested the examination committee to check the questions and then, make recommendations, based on a which a decision would be taken. “We have heard that one question with two segments were outside the prescribed syllabus. The committee will let us know after their evaluation,” Ganguly had said.
 
