TRICHY: A majority of the minor girls forced into marriages in the state have developed serious health issues due to early pregnancy and the excessive physical torment experienced at a tender age, revealed a study.

 The study conducted by the Campaign to End Child Marriages in   (CECMTN) also showed that most of the victims had to face unexpected incidents of sexual violence and abuse. Besides, 88% of the girls complained of deteriorating health after marriage. The frequent abuses have pushed some of the girls into depression. The study pointed out that 25% of the victims were depressed and 47% of them felt lonely due to the severe abuse and violence.
 
 Most of the child brides went through nightmares throughout their pregnancy till the childbirth. The study showed that the mother and baby were healthy only in 21% of child marriages.
 
 The survey was carried out on five heads – health, education, social, economic and violence. “Child marriages take a toll on the health of minor girls and pour cold water over her dreams of pursuing education. They are forced to become accustomed to daily household chores,” said state convener of   MSA   from   district.
 
 Meanwhile, the study highlighted that the cases of separation among the couples involving a child bride were very low. “In spite of these issues, only 16% of such marriages led to break-ups and 6% of them ended up in divorce,” said state convener Radha Damodaram.
 
 Advocate Suhenya, who was a resource person in Wednesday’s meeting in Trichy, said poverty, worry over dowry, ignorance about the health complications of early marriage and concern over the safety of the girl are the major reasons for child marriages.
 
 Many parents marry off their daughters young because they feel it is in her best interest, often to ensure her safety in areas where girls are at high risk of harassment and physical or sexual assault.
 
 CECM also pointed out the lack of a state-level survey about child marriages and also the fruitless functioning of the village-level child protection committees. “Despite awareness programmes, the message did not reach the target audience. So, the government can involve NGOs to work with the people to sensitise them,” said Satish Babu.
 
 
