BHOPAL: A wave of shock and anger swept through the city when pictures of women teachers getting their heads tonsured appeared in local newspapers last week. Here’s another shocker: the agitating teachers had to shell out Rs 1.21 lakh to get a venue for their protest.

 The money was paid to the   management to get Jamboree Ground on rent for a day to stage a sit-in after the district administration refused to give them any place under its jurisdiction. Vasudev Sharma, one of the conveners of the protest, said: “We had asked for Yadgar-e-Shahjehani Park to hold the protest, but didn’t get police clearance. Then, we were ready to accept any place that the police and administration designated — Neelam Park, Chhola Dussehra Ground, TT Nagar Dussehra Ground and even Ambedkar Park, where you easily get permission for demonstrations. But they didn’t agree.” 
 
 By January 12, Sharma said, the teachers were sure that the administration wouldn’t give permission for the protest. “There was no time left. The protest was slated for the next day. So, we approached BHEL. They agreed, but only after we paid them Rs 1,21,000. We collected money from teachers and only then we could hold the protest.” Sharma said the district administration’s reluctance to give space for protest has made it difficult for groups, like those of teachers, panchayat workers and anganwadi workers to raise their voice in the state capital. 
 
 Leaders of Opposition parties and civil society groups echoed Sharma’s sentiments. “They don’t want to listen to a dissenting voice. The easiest way is to deny permission to any rally, protest or demonstration in the name of public convenience or law and order. It’s not the district administration that is doing it. The state government does the same. When a VIP comes to the city, all concerns for public convenience go for a toss. But if poor teachers wish to hold a peaceful demonstration in a park, they are denied permission,” said   state general secretary Badal Saroj. Tent house owners in   nowadays agree to give mikes, tents and other logistic support for a protest or demonstration only after written police permission is shown to them,   said. 
 
  (AAP) state convener   said: “Limiting places for protests, rallies and demonstrations amounts to limiting democracy. Under Article 19 of Constitution, we have a right to peaceful protest, but in Bhopal places where people assemble for peaceful demonstration — like Yadgar-e-Shahjahani Park or Iqbal Maidan — are being closed to protesters.”
 
 Asked why the administration is often reluctant to permit a demonstration or protest in the city, additional district magistrate G P Mali said: “Public convenience is our first priority. Maintaining law and order is a major concern. If someone wishes to demonstrate at   or CM House, it can’t be permitted. As far as parks are concerned, permission is normally given, but we allow use of mike only after getting clearance from the police station concerned.” 
 
 
