Belonging to a family of musicians and artists,   is no less than a perfectionist on the piano. Surprisingly, he has had no formal education in  , but his melodies have held generations of listeners in thrall.

 Brian, who will be performing in a concert in Delhi celebrating 20 years of his stage performances next month, speaks to us about how he came to be a pianist, why old   is his favourite, and his journey as a performer and a teacher.
 
 
  
  
 
 Brian's family was well-versed with music, but he was reluctant to take up music seriously as a kid. Though he learnt a few instruments, he was not too keen to pursue music as a profession, unlike most of his family members. However, when asked what drew him to the piano eventually, Brian says, “I think God told me directly. I was working at that time. I had no money and I'd left my job. And that is when I started playing the piano. I rented a piano and that's how I started this journey.”
 
 He adds, “Music toh shuru se hi tha. It was always there inside me. My parents and grandparents thought that one day, I’ll play the piano. I couldn’t even reach the piano we had at home, yet I knew how to play the right notes. My parents wanted me to learn the right techniques in school, but neither I nor the teacher had the patience.”
 
 Telling us about his journey that shaped him as an artist, Brian shares, “As we grow up, one starts looking for stability, so I took a job and had no time for music. I came to Delhi from Kanpur, I was the marketing manager in the purchase department at Appu Ghar. We had a cultural department there and it had two bands - one English and one Hindi. Since I had a craving for music, I used to sit with them and play their instruments. But I was more attracted to the piano.”
 
 He continues, “I took a piano on rent, for which I didn’t pay the rent for the first six months. The owner of the shop,  , refused to take any rent when he realized my talent. My aunt, who used to work at DPS, East of Kailash, had a broken piano at school. So I asked her to get it repaired, and started going there to practise as well as to teach. But my parents used to call and write to me, asking me, 'What have you done?', as I'd quit my job.”
 
  
  
 
 While most pianists play western music, Brian has built a distinct identity by playing Hindi music on the instrument. He says, “My parents and grandparents used to play church music. No one ever played Bollywood music on the piano at home. But I found more depth in old Hindi music, and the piano had everything in it - bass, rhythm, melody. From Day 1, I started playing Hindi songs on it.”
 
 Was the piano the only instrument he played? “We had two-three pianos at our home, that's how the love grew within me. Though I've played other instruments, I never had the voice to sing along,” he replies.
 
  
  
 
 Sharing with us his experiences as a teacher, he says, “Till date, I don’t know the correct notations of music. So initially, when I started teaching, it was difficult to teach students without the proper technique. So I started making them follow the notes - by singing, and making them follow it. My wife used to learn the piano from me and she used to right down the notes. Gradually, that became a process of teaching for me.”
 
 On being asked which title suits him best – a performer or a teacher – he says, “A performer cannot be a good teacher because you need a lot of patience while teaching. And for my type of music, one needs a lot of patience. But I think I have shown a lot of patience with my students. A few of my students are also playing professionally now.”
 
 
  
  
 While Brian has played various kinds of music, it is Bollywood music that he likes the most. When asked about his favourite songs, he says, “I play the songs that I like. It is not easy to play Bollywood music on the piano, as that music is not made for this instrument. Since sounds break a lot on the piano, it is difficult to maintain continuity, or play it like it is played on strings. It's not easy.”
 
 “90% of Indian music is based on raagas, whereas western music is slightly differently. But personally, I feel that music lies in the sad songs. Piano has been my domain. No one has ever played Indian music on the piano. And once I started playing it, I was hooked. I play every type of music, but I like to play Bollywood music,” he explains.
 
 Brian, who was born and brought up in Kanpur, shifted to Delhi along with his parents. “Delhi has become my root now. I do miss Kanpur. My relatives are still there,” he says. For a long time, Brian tried to hide his name from fame. “I used to keep a very low profile. Nobody from my school or college days knew that I played till my album released. Then they realized that it was me. I’m not an ambitious type. I am happy with my life,” says he.
 
 When asked about his favourite audience, he says, “My daughters never wanted to learn the piano. But my granddaughters are really interested and are some of my sincerest listeners.”
 
 “I used to run a piano school in Panchsheel. My aim was to teach students and play with them in a concert together. That has been a dream till now. Hopefully, it’ll come true someday,” Brian concludes.
 
  --
 
 
 
 
