Hyderabad: In what could be a booster for the fledgling IT/ITeS sector in Warangal, desi IT giant Tech Mahindra has agreed to set up a centre in that town, the Telangana government said on Thursday. 

 The decision was the outcome of a meeting that Telangana IT and industries minister K T Rama Rao had with Mahindra Group chairman Anand Mahindra and Tech Mahindra’s CEO & MD CP Gurnani in Davos at the ongoing World Economic Forum.
 
 “Giving a major boost to the IT sector in the tier-II centre in the state, Tech Mahindra will open a center in Warangal,” the release said without disclosing any further details.
 
 Telangana government has been trying to push tier-II cities like Warangal as the next best investment destination after Hyderabad in Telangana for the IT/ITeS sector.
 
 In fact, the state government had recently sanctioned Rs 25 crore each to set up an Information Technology (IT) Tower in Karimnagar and IT hub in Nizamabad. This apart, it has also proposed to set up an IT park in Khammam. 
 
 Meanwhile, the KTR-led delegation also met Lockheed Martin executive vice-president Richard Ambrose and requested him to evaluate the prospects of setting up Lockheed Martin’s space business facility in Hyderabad. 
 
 The minister also met Adani Group chairman Gautam Adani, Abraaj Group managing partner Kito de Boer, Pfizer Vaccines president Susan Silbermann, Tata Group chairman N Chandrasekharan, Bajaj Group chairman Rahul Bajaj and Hero MotoCorp CEO Pawan Munjal and discussed investment opportunities in the state.
 
 KTR also hobnobbed with Henk de Jong, executive vice-president and chief of international markets, Philips Group and explained the advantages Telangana offers for manufacturing in the medical devices and consumer electronics space. He requested the company to send its team to evaluate investment opportunities in the state.
 
 He also met Nikolina Angelkova, minister of tourism, Republic of Bulgaria, at the CII-DIPP Pavilion in Davos and discussed mutual cooperation in innovation through startup exchange programmes and also promotion of the tourism industry.
 
 
