This is one unfinished business that JD(S) state chief HD   wants to take care of since 2006 when   defeated the party candidate in a bypoll from Chamundeshwari assembly constituency. Picking up the gauntlet thrown down by Kumaraswamy, a nonchalant Siddaramaiah has jumped into the fray again in Chamundeshwari where the contest could go down to the wire.

 There is a role reversal of sorts this time though. Kumaraswamy had as the head of the JD(S)-BJP coalition government in 2006 done all he could to defeat Siddaramaiah. The victory marked Siddaramaiah’s political birth and the turnaround ended with him becoming CM.
 
 Now CM Siddaramaiah says he is contesting his last election from the segment. Kumaraswamy, however, is seeking political redemption and hoping to come out of political oblivion by ensuring that Siddaramaiah and his party bite the dust.
 
 The CM’s dual contests — he is also contesting from Badami in   — though have lent credence to his opponents’ claims that he is not confident of a win here. Siddaramaiah, however, is unfazed, say his aides, who are confident that his personal bond with the people will ensure he sails through.
 
  
  
 
 While campaigning in Koorgahalli on the outskirts of the city, Siddaramaiah came to know that one of his friends who helped him in his initial days was ailing in the village. The CM wanted to meet him but was cautioned that his friend’s son was in JD(S) now. Siddaramaiah overlooked the advice and called on his friend.
 
 The CM began his political career in Chamundeshwari in 1983 when he was elected as an independent. He represented the segment five times and then moved on to neighbouring Varuna after delimitation. But for delimitation, one of his close aides said, he would still be in Chamundeshwari. As in 2006, he adds,   is helping JD(S) by fielding a lightweight, Gopal Rao.
 
 The CM’s main rival, GT Devegowda, his friend-turned-foe, former minister and three-term MLA, has lent another dimension to the Siddaramaiah versus Kumaraswamy battle. He can be as wily as the CM. As recently as in January when   wanted to install a Congressman as the mayor in the fractured Mysuru city council, Devegowda stalled it by poaching the Congress candidate at the last minute. The CM, who was in the city, had no wind of the poaching till the nomination papers were filed.
 
 “What is working in our favour is that voters have consolidated behind us,” Devegowda says, adding, “Siddaramaiah is getting film stars like Darshan, Raj Babbar and Jayamala to campaign for him. But people want Kumaraswamy and Devegowda.”
 
 The JD(S) confidence stems from its strength in local bodies. While it is ruling the Mysuru City Corporation, some 80,000 voters from the city are part of Chamundeshwari; six of the eight ZP segments here are in the JD(S) kitty. Of the six members, three are Vokkaligas. Of the 30 taluk panchayat segments in the constituency, 20 are with JD(S) and 10 with Congress. There are some 60,000 Vokkaliga voters.
 
 Voters, mainly Vokkaligas, are upset with Siddaramaiah and want to teach him a lesson, explains BK Sunil, a scientist who manages a farm at Maratikyathanahalli. “Voters are polarised and it looks like it will go down to the wire like in 2006,” he said.
 
 While the focus is on which way Vokkaligas go, the CM’s camp is working to get the support of microscopic communities, something Siddaramaiah successfully experimented with in the Nanjangud bypoll last year. According to his camp, there are 50,000 voters from these communities which include Kumbaras, Vishwakarmas, Bovis and nomadic tribes.
 
