NEW DELHI: The   government informed the   on Monday that medical reports suggested that special CBI judge B H Loya suffered a fatal heart attack on December 1, 2014, possibly because of 100% calcification of an artery and that it was cheap gossip to allege involvement of an RSS worker in the matter.

 
 State counsel senior advocate   said an article published in a magazine three years after Loya's death was motivated as four district judges had stuck to Loya like "shadows" from the time he complained of chest pain till his death in a Nagpur hospital. "There was an insinuation in the magazine about alleged involvement of an RSS worker called Ishwar Baheti in the scene after the death of Loya.
 
 The state intelligence tracked down three Ishwar Bahetis in Nagpur. The one who was involved in arrangements for taking the body to Loya's ancestral village near Latur was Baheti, who was Loya's friend for the last 30 years. He was well known to the family," Rohatgi said. The counsel said the magazine also insinuated that Loya, after suffering a heart attack, was taken to hospital in an autorickshaw. "This is another falsehood being spread. One of the judicial officers, who accompanied the judge to hospital, has given a statement that Loya was taken in his car to the hospital," Rohatgi said.
 
 Appearing for petitioner  , senior advocate Dushyant Dave said it was strange that Maharashtra government did not order an inquiry immediately after the death of the judge, who was hearing the sensitive Sohrabuddin Sheikh 'fake' encounter case and who was not given adequate security. "Strangely, the judges give statements in 2017 within 24 hours of Maharashtra police commencing inquiry into Loya's death following the report in the news magazine. It is worrisome that the statements from judicial officers come so promptly," he said.
 
 Dave questioned the procedure adopted by a bench of CJI Dipak Misra and Justices A M Khanwilkar and D Y Chandrachud in carrying on with the hearing without issuing notice to the state. The bench said, "It is a matter of serious concern. We are treating the matter with all seriousness. You (Dave) are bringing facts to our notice and we are looking at them very carefully. If we suspect foul play or our suspicion gets aroused by facts you produce, we will not hesitate to order an inquiry into the matter."
 
