JALANDHAR: The strong opposition to rallies by political parties at   at Fatehgarh Sahib, which ultimately ensured that none was held at the event last week, is now casting its shadow on   conferences to be held at Sri Muktsar Sahib. During the last two assembly elections, political parties had used the Maghi mela occasion to hold conferences and as show of strength.

 While   and AAP have already announced that they would not hold any political conference on the occasion of Maghi in Muktsar, SAD (B) is still holding on to its plan. SAD (Amritsar) has also said that it will go ahead with a political conference in Muktsar.
 
 While Sikh activists are demanding that political conferences at other Sikh historical occasions and places should be also banned, some Sikh scholars and activists advocate a nuanced approach.
 
 “What was happening in the name of these political conferences was petty and personal politics, which amounted to sacrilege. The political discourse on this occasion should happen, but it should be about ideal politics in the light of Sikh history and ethos, and of course contemporary challenges before the community should be discussed,” said  , former IAS officer and noted Sikh author. 
 
 “In Sikhism there is concept of miri and piri (religion and politics). We can’t do away with this concept. But what these conferences were going was not even politics, it was just mudslinging. We did not construct larger political dialogue on these occasions in the light of the historical occasion,” said Gangveer Rathour, co-founder of Almi Punjabi Adbi Sangat.
 
 “The politics of those times should be discussed, which led to execution of the two Sahibzaadas and other sacrifices by Sikhs led by Guru Gobind Singh and contemporary issues and larger political, religious and social challenges should also be discussed,” said Dal Khalsa spokesperson Kanwarpal Singh.
 
 Most political parties had made Maghi conferences in 2011 and 2016 as their biggest show of strength. In fact, the Manpreet Badal-led PPP conference in 2011 and AAP conference in 2016 had created ripples then. 
 
 The strong opposition to political conferences by Sikh activists at Fategarh sahib Shaeedi Jor Mela, which is held to mark anniversary of martyrdom of two younger Sahibzaadas (sons) of guru Gobind Singh and then a subsequent directive by the Akal Takht jathedar has also triggered a debate in the community as religion and politics go together in Sikhism.
 
 While Punjab Congress president   said that they were cancelling Maghi conference to honour the Sikh sentiments of not using a religious occasion for political purposes, AAP state co-convener   said they had decided not to hold conferences on occasions associated with martyrdom.
 
 
