CHANDIGARH: World Heritage site Capitol Complex, which not long ago wore a worn-out look, has got a facelift.Considered one of the finest works of Chandigarh architect  , Capitol Complex comprises three main buildings — the secretariat, legislative assembly and Punjab and Haryana high court. It also has the Open Hand Monument and a memorial to the martyrs of the freedom struggle.

 The administration in the past had not paid much attention towards upkeep of the buildings built from 1955 to 1958, as concrete on the outer side had decayed and deteriorated largely due to extensive occupancy load and extreme tropical climate. Over the years, rust had deposited on the concrete and the exposed surface had blackened. There were visible cracks on the surface and sapling of concrete. Not only that, rooftops of all the buildings were damaged.
 
 However, things changed after the complex bagged the Unesco World Heritage site on July 17, 2016. In last one year, the engineering wing of the administration has managed to restore the façade of the buildings.
 
 Concrete on the surface has been cleaned with water and pressurised steam, while dilapidated concrete has been chipped. The cracks have been filled by patch work. Rust has been removed from iron bars, while corroded bars were replaced as per the requirement. To prevent the bars from catching rust in future, anti-rust coating has been applied.
 
 Sundial on the Geometry Hill, which was incomplete along with the sloping side, has been completed. The Tower of Shadow and Martyr’s Memorial have also been repaired. For ensuring pedestrian connectivity, pathways have been made and the Plaza has been restored.
 
 
 
 The engineering wing is facing problems in removing encroachments in the secretariat building, which houses the government offices of both Punjab and Haryana, hindering the pace of restoration work. The department has managed to clear around 112 encroachments in the   offices, while the department is waiting for approval from the Haryana government to remove encroachments.
 
 Fully-covered verandahs up to the parapet with cabins of wood and aluminium are the most common encroachments by the government offices. In many cases, verandahs are being used as retiring room and pantries. Air conditioning units on the exterior facades are also visible.
 
 Mukesh  , special secretary, engineering, UT, said they have managed to remove almost all the encroachments except for four by different offices of the Punjab government. “We are hopeful of clearing the remaining encroachments by Punjab offices, while response from Haryana government is awaited,” said Anand. He said efforts would be made to bring back all the buildings in original space for which corporation of both Punjab and Haryana government is required.
 
 Matching colour of old concrete with new and maintaining the same pattern posed as the biggest challenges faced by the team carrying out the restoration work. “We struggled to match the original colour of the concrete. It took us nearly three months to match the colour after trying various combination of different types of cement and chemicals,” said Anand. “About 70% of work has been complete and were are confident of completing the rest in around four months,” said Anand. So far, funds to the tune of Rs 5 crore have been spent on the work.
 
 Harsimran Singh of   — the firm carrying out the restoration work – said they had to use lot of innovative techniques to ensure that there was no change in the original character and pattern of the buildings. “In the restoration work, we used German-made machines and nano chemicals,” said Harsimran Singh, who is heading an 80-member team working at the Complex.
 
