PUNE: Hanumant Kharat, the father of   — one of the employees named by the   in the Rs11,300 crore   (PNB) fraud case, insisted on Friday that his son was innocent and was being made a scapegoat.

 “Manoj is in Mumbai and we have asked him to cooperate with the investigating agency for whatever information or knowledge he has about the matter,” Hanumant told TOI over telephone from Karjat, about 144km from Pune, in the neighbouring Ahmednagar district.
 
 The Kharat family has been staying at Yasinagar in Karjat for the past 10 years.
 
 Hanumant, an employee with the Ahmednagar Zilla Parishad’s irrigation department, said, “Manoj has been speaking to our family members about the matter over the past few days. He told us that he did not do anything wrong but only carried out whatever instructions were given to him by his seniors.”
 
 “He last called us on telephone on Thursday,” Hanumant said, adding that Manoj joined the PNB in 2014 merely as a clerk after completing his computer engineering from a college in Pune.
 
 “He told us that he had no power to deal with amounts beyond Rs25,000 and was in no way connected with the allegations being made or levelled on him,” Hanumant said.
 
 According to the CBI, the bank’s deputy manager (retired) Gokulnath Setty and single window operator Manoj had issued eight letters of understanding (LOU) worth over Rs280 crore to Nirav Modi’s company just three months before Shetty retired in May. The LOUs were issued in February. The due date mentioned was January 2018.
 
 An LOU is an assurance by one party to another that they will fulfil an obligation previously agreed on. In the context of finance, it usually refers to a bank guarantee.
 
 Hanumant said, “Manoj has not received money from anyone. The investigating agency can check his and our bank accounts. My son has only carried out his seniors’ instructions. How can a clerk issue LOUs, that too of such big amounts? We will soon travel to Mumbai to meet him and know more about the case. So far, he has only told us that he did not do anything wrong.”
 
 A bachelor, Manoj has been staying in Mumbai since joining the PNB in 2014. His elder brother works with a private company. The Kharat family has its roots in Solapur district.
 
 A neighbour of the Kharat family in Karjat told TOI over phone, “Manoj has always been a sincere and studious person. The family has maintained a good rapport with all of us. Manoj used to actively participate in social activities. He is a simple and sober person. We doubt if he has done anything wrong.”
 
 Ahmednagar superintendent of police Ranjankumar Sharma told TOI, “We have not received any instructions either from the Enforcement Directorate or the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) related to the family till today (Friday).”
 
 
