Calgary-based Sikh real estate mogul Bob  , who donated $10 million dollars to the local University of Lethbridge last week, says his long-term aim is to bring students from Punjab and the rest of India to give them futuristic education at one of Canada’s top universities.

 In recognition of his donation, the university has renamed its business school the Dhillon School of Business.
 
 “It is a great honour for me and our hundred-year-old Indian community in Canada that one of the oldest universities in this country has changed the name of its business school to the Dhillon School of Business,’’ says Dhillon who started his real estate business from the trunk of his car at the age of 19 in the 1980s.
 
 Today, his company   is the leader in the Canadian mid-segment real estate market, with assets close to $2 billion and nearly 12,000 apartment units.
 
 “The Dhillon School of Business will redesign its curriculum and teach futuristic courses - artificial intelligence, robotics, crowd-funding, blockchain and cryptocurrencies. All my money will go towards imparting futuristic education that encourages innovation,’’ says Dhillon who originally belongs to   village near  . An alumnus of Yadavindra Public School (Patiala) and Bishop Cotton School (Shimla), he says students from his native Punjab will benefit from his donation to the University of Lethbridge.
 
 “Though the objective of my donation is to make the university a hub of futuristic education for global students, I am an Indian and a Punjabi and a Sikh and my focus is to bring students from India to the Dhillon School of Business,’’ he says. Dhillon, who is known in Canada for wearing his heritage on his sleeve, says the current education system is outdated.
 
 “That’s why the Dhillon School of Business will impart futuristic education at its two campuses - one in   and the other in Lethbridge. For this purpose, the University of Lethbridge has changed its course curricula and no university in Canada has taken such a quantum leap.’’ Apart from being its donor, Dhillon will also serve as the brand ambassador of the Dhillon School of Business as well as sit on its advisory board.
 
 “As the brand ambassador of the school, my objective is build bridges from its campuses right to my heartland - India and Punjab. I am in charge of the initiative to link Punjab with this university. We will bring students from India and equip them with the education needed for today’s world,’’ he says.
 
 The Dhillon School of Business will also explore tie-ups and collaborations with universities and schools in Punjab, he adds.
 
 “I went to YPS Patiala and BCS Shilma and I am from Punjab. So when I am in India next, I will sit with them and discuss these things. We hope that we will have tie-ups with these schools.’’ Dhillon, who earned his MBA from the top-notch   in Ontario even as he ran his real estate business, credits education for his success.
 
