CHANDIGARH: The residents of Manimajra's Modern Housing Complex have had to commit the long railway timetable to memory to know when the trains arrive at the railway crossing. They must remember it in order to know when to avoid this route and its huge traffic jams. 

 Residents interviewed by TOI claim that the source of the problem lies in the absence of a divider near the railway crossing. A resident said: "Whenever the gate opens after the passing of a train, there is traffic chaos at the site, which has become a routine at the point. Vehicles bang against each other long after the train is out of sight."
 
 Even though the residents are relieved that an underpass is coming up at the railway crossing to ease out traffic, they find it only a temporary relief. They say the day the underpass is ready and inaugurated, they will know how effective it is. Modern Housing Complex resident welfare association (RWA) president Colonel Gursewak Singh said the civic authorities were not considering the RWA suggestion of widening the under-construction railway underpass that would be a short cut to Panchkula.
 
 RWA general secretary S A Qureshi said: "There have been instances when I was caught for hours in the traffic chaos at this railway crossing and had to manage traffic myself to get out of the situation. We require a permanent solution." 
 
 Modern Housing Complex resident C M Dhiman said: "Earlier, police had put up mobile barricades as divider to manage traffic, but even those were removed and the situation is back to square one. The police department should re-install these barricades at the spot, even though as a temporary measure, for the convenience of commuters."
 
 RWA senior vice-president S L Luthra said the usual   at the Manimajra railway crossing was of a nightmarish size. "For senior citizens particularly, it is difficult to drive through it safely. Even though the Manimajra station house officer (SHO) has promised to regulate traffic by reinstalling temporary dividers, I don't think any stopgap measure can improve the situation now."
 
 RWA finance secretary S K Gautam suggested that police impounded the vehicles of the people who failed to respect the divider line at the railway crossing. He called for on-the-spot penalty for traffic violation. "Moreover, the on-duty cop should enforce the one-way-traffic rule for just five minutes to clear the rush on both sides. It'll be a good solution, in my opinion," he said.
 
 Resident welfare association organising secretary Mahipal Sharma called for the deployment of at least two constables or Home Guards volunteers at the railway gates when the train is about to pass. 
 
 He said the motorcyclists and cyclists were major offenders of traffic rules.
 
 
