CHANDIGARH: How less the country knows about it heroes! Did you know, for example, that Shaheed Udham Singh once worked in the house of the British officer he assassinated? It was a surprise even to the audience in the mini auditorium of Tagore Theatre here on Monday, when Theatre House play, 'The Great Martyrdom of  ', opened some unread chapters from the life of the revolutionary freedom fighter. 

 Set in the pre-Independence days of 1919 to 1940, the play portrays the life and deeds of Shaheed Udham Singh, who assassinated British officer Michael O'  to avenge the massacre at Amritsar's Jallianghwala Bagh, which General Reginald Dyer had ordered and O'Dwyer had endorsed as lieutenant governor of the undivided Punjab in April 1919.
 
 The play includes eight characters. The actors lip-sync to a recorded voiceover narrative that runs in the background and describes the sequence of events. Gaurav Sharma, one of the lead organisers of the play, said: "Shaheed Udham Singh is one of the lesser known revolutionaries of our country. Apart from the assassination of O'Dwyer in London's Caxton Hall, the play includes episodes from the early life of Shaheed, as a gardener in O'Dwyer house, a fact a lot of people don't know."
 
 Half the narrative is based in London, while the other half speaks of the India of that time. The play attempts to bring to the fore the deep, passionate, patriotic spirit of Shaheed Udham Singh, who is shown to be in love with 'azaadi (freedom)' and compares it to his   (legendary love interest of Ranjha in one of the popular tragic romances of Punjab). The audience listens to his life story told in the female background voice of ' ', which is freedom personified. 
 
  plays Udham Singh, while local actors Gajendar, Jaspal Singh, Amit, and Hardeep are in supporting roles. Playwright C S Sindhra and director Sarwan Singh have done a good job with this 50-minute play. Jaspal Singh is the lighting director, while the set is designed by Gajinder Singh.
 
 
