NEW DELHI: She was only 22 when her husband and his family members harassed her over   to the extent that she hanged herself at her paternal home. But a court made sure that the perpetrators who abetted the young woman’s death do not go unpunished. It called the dowry system a “menace to the society” and sentenced the husband and two of his family members to seven years’ rigorous imprisonment, besides a   of Rs 15,000 each.

 “Dowry system has become a menace to the society. Such offences are required to be dealt with sternly,” observed additional sessions judge Mukesh Kumar.
 
 Bharti had married Vikas Sharma on November 28, 2004, but on the first night itself, she was told by her husband that he had married her under compulsion. He had also said that he was seeing someone else. Bharti had narrated her ordeal to her father Ved Prakash, who was one of the key witnesses in the case. According to Prakash, Bharti’s brother-in-law, his wife, her mother-in-law and her husband in particular, were not satisfied with the dowry they got. According to him, the harassment started right after marriage and lasted till July 13, 2005.
 
 The prosecution had claimed that in February, 2005, Vikas had left Bharti at her paternal home as his dowry   of a car had not been met. There was also an alleged demand of an amount of Rs 4-5 lakh. On the morning of July 14, 2005, Bharti’s brother saw her hanging from the ceiling fan. It was submitted before the court that only the previous night, Bharti was very upset as a result of the marital discord and went off to sleep crying after her husband reiterated the dowry demand over a phone call.
 
 Arguing against the accused’s indictment, the defence counsel asserted that Bharti committed suicide at her paternal home as her husband and she had remained there for about a month. He also submitted that there was no specific allegation against the accused persons for the demand of dowry as well as for harassment as no such specific time and date has been given by the prosecution witnesses in their testimonies. For the court, however, the prosecution had successfully established that Bharti’s death was within one year of marriage. 
 
 
