NEW DELHI: Wary of its anticorruption plank slipping away in the wake of a host of controversies including the  , the government now appears to have gathered ample ammunition to counter any opposition onslaught in   with the arrest rest of   and Cabinet nod to Fugitive Economic Offenders Bill.

 Its anti-corruption stance had contributed significantly to BJP’s victory in the 2014 Lok Sabha polls and the party had since proudly claimed that no scam has taken place during the Modi regime. However, this has come under threat in recent weeks.
 
 Last December, a CBI special court had acquitted former telecom minister A Raja and DMK leader Kanimozhi in the 2G allocation case. Billed as the biggest telecom scam that had allegedly caused a loss of Rs 1.76 lakh crore to the exchequer, this was one of the main issues raised by BJP during the 2014 polls.
 
  A further dent to BJP’s anti-corruption stance was caused by the alleged Rs 12,622-crore fraud committed by diamond jeweller Nirav Modi and his uncle Mehul Choksi by getting fraudulent letters of undertaking (LoUs) from PNB. The NDA government was put on the defensive when CBI in its FIR said 143 LoUs worth Rs 4,886 crore were issued or renewed in 2017 (during NDA rule).
 
 CBI arresting Rotomac promoter Vikram Kothari for alleged swindling of Rs 3,695 crore of loan funds also got a lot of bad press for the Modi government. However, a few developments in the recent weeks will help BJP counter the Opposition in Parliament when it meets on Monday for the remainder of the  .
 
 The arrest of former FM P Chidambaram’s son Karti in a case of financial wrongdoing — based on charges levelled by Indrani Mukherjee of INX Media — is likely to be used by the treasury benches to take on the Opposition on the issue of corruption.
 
 The opposition, on the other hand, may raise this issue to allege it is a case of “political vendetta” and an attempt to divert attention from the PNB scam.
 
 The Cabinet also gave its not to the Fugitive Economic Offenders Bill, 2018, last week and the government will push for its passage to show it is serious about fighting corruption. The proposed law would give powers to attach all properties and assets of a declared fugitive. The bill will apply with retrospective effect to all such persons as soon as it comes into force. The government has also announced setting up of a National Financial Reporting Authority that will have oversight over audit of listed and big private companies.
 
 The CBI FIR against promoters of Simbhaoli Sugar Mills, including Punjab CM Amarinder Singh’s son-in-law, in connection with an alleged bank loan fraud, is also likely to be raked up by BJP members.
 
