NOIDA:  , who was flown to India from Lahore for treatment weeks his birth, will return home to   this week after successfully undergoing surgery to treat a rare congenital heart disease.

 Rohaan, now five months old, was brought to Noida on September 7 last year after his father appealed to external affairs minister   on her Twitter handle, the same oath other Pakistanis in health emergencies had successfully taken before.
 
 Rohaan was just five days old when he was detected with Hypoplastic Left Heart Syndrome (HLHS). Initially, his parents were unable to get an Indian medical visa. His father Muhammad Faisal Javaid, an IT professional, then appealed to Sushma, who directed officials to facilitate medical visas for the baby and the family.
 
 Javed, his wife Mehwish Mukhtar, a former broadcaster and lecturer at University of Punjab, Pakistan, came to India on September 7 with Rohaan and their elder son Mohammad Riayyan Faisal (3). Mehwish said the baby’s surgery was performed the next day by a team of doctors led by Rajesh Sharma, director of paediatric cardiology, at Jaypee hospital.
 
 Explaining Rohaan’s condition, Dr Sharma said, “Hypoplastic Left Heart Syndrome is a heart defect that affects normal blood flow in the heart. The left side of his heart was critically underdeveloped. The pressure in his lungs used to shoot up very quickly. Rohaan had heavy breathing and his weight was not increasing.”
 
 In the surgery, doctors said, the main pulmonary artery and the aorta were connected and the main pulmonary artery was then cut off from the two branching pulmonary arteries that direct deoxygenated blood to each side of the lungs. The right ventricle was converted into the main ventricle, pumping blood to both the lungs and the body, using a Sano shunt. 
 
 The surgery was completed successfully in about 10 hours. Doctors said approximately one out of 1,000 children suffers from this disease.
 
 Dr Varun Bhargava, senior consultant at Kailash Hospital in Noida, said normally, the left side of the heart pumps oxygenated blood to the body through the aorta, but in conditions like Rohaan’s, the left ventricle is not developed so it cannot pump blood to the whole body. “So the right ventricle, which is meant to supply blood to lungs only for oxygenation, is used for diverting blood to the main aorta. Thus, right ventricle take over some function of left ventricle,” he said.
 
 Mehwish said doctors in Pakistan had told her surgery needed to be done within a month. “We were concerned for the safety of our child. We decided to approach India’s external affairs minister through a small campaign on Twitter. She responded positively. Next day, the officials handed us the papers and visa. I am really thankful to the minister and the doctors whose attempts have saved my child’s life,” she told TOI. She added the family had a nice experience in India and had found people here friendly.
 
 In July 2017 too, a Pakistani infant was operated in a Noida hospital for a heart ailment.
 
 
