Chandigarh: “Why are we caged in the hostels and not allowed to leave the hostel after 9 pm? If we enter our hostels after 10 pm, why do the authorities impose fine on us?” With these questions, Panjab University Campus Student Council secretary Vani Sood launched the   movement here on Wednesday. 

 Abolishing the curfew timings for women is what this movement is aimed at, says Sood. Moreover, with the sexual harassment cases surfacing in the University, through this Pinjra Tod the council is also demanding students’ representation in the Panjab University Committee Against Sexual Harassment. 
 
 “Why do only female students of the university have to face this kind of discrimination? I want to fight against these arbitrary and discriminatory hostel timings that are imposed on female residents of the university,” says Sood. 
 
 Talking about the initiative at Student Centre, Sood said, “The campaign is based on the fact that girls are self-sufficient and can decide for themselves what is right or wrong for them. For this reason the campaign will include signing of feedback forms by the students aimed at change in the hostel timings and to stop imposition of fine for late coming. The campaign will end in a march in Panjab university in which all the feedback forms will be submitted to the vice-chancellor of the university.”
 
 While addressing the students who had gathered at the Student Centre here on Wednesday, Sood said, “Pinjra Tod is a revolution in itself. The objective behind Pinjra Tod is that 60 percent of the student population in Panjab University are girls. Even though girls are in majority, still they are being denied of their rights. The programme is aimed at getting a seat for the Student Council members at PUCASH, a committee made for the redressal of sexual harassment complaints in Panjab University and addressal of day to day problems of the students. The authorities will be present throughout the campaign so that problems are solved on the spot.”
 
 It was during the student council elections last year that Students For Society (SFS) had tried to build this movement in the University. However no prominent student bodies with political affiliation had joined the Pinjra Tod movement. 
 
 
