MUMBAI: Students who joined   last year are facing a major crisis after the state government last week vetoed a Fee Regulating Authority ( ) ruling and gave the   college a free hand to determine and charge tuition fees. 

 Most students said that their parents had set aside a specific budget and availed of loans for their education. If the college were to hike fee, where would they pay from, questioned the students.
 
 Parents and students plan to approach the FRA and demand that the college gets a free hand only from this year, and the students who are already studying there be charged according to the regulating authority's fee structure.
 
 "We will ask FRA to direct the college to charge the last batch fees that was set last year," said a parent whose child took admission in the college last year. Some parents also plan to move court against the state government's decision. 
 
 Last year,   set up as  's first medical college under a private limited company. All other private colleges and hospitals in the state are set up as trusts. On April 10, the state issued a resolution that Vedantaa would be out of the FRA's ambit as the institute is a private limited. The state said this decision was in line with the Centre's decision to invite private companies with commercial interests to set up medical colleges. The state has also decided that fees of students from various reserved categories admitted to this college would not be reimbursed, as is the case in other private colleges. Back of the envelope calculation done by the state showed that five years down the line, the government would end up spending Rs 40-Rs 50 crore on reimbursements for only this college, an official stated.
 
 Last year too, parents dragged the college to FRA over high fees that was not in line with the what was set by the regulating authority. FRA had told the college it would have to abide by its rules. The minutes of the meeting of the fee body read, "The institution in blatant disregard for the ad hoc fees fixed by FRA, which is Rs 6 lakh per student, has been collecting Rs 14 lakh". It added that the institution had declared the fees for NRI quota at Rs 30 lakh, which was not permissible. 
 
 
