JAIPUR: In a crackdown against counterfeit currency notes, Special Operations Group ( ) wing of Rajasthan police on Tuesday have arrested a 53-year-old man with a possession of counterfeit currency notes of Rs 3 lakh in the denomination of Rs 2000.

 SOG suspected that the man from   had come to circulate the currency in the eastern Rajasthan via Dausa district. 
 
 According to the SOG officials they were getting regular inputs on the activities of some men who were into the smuggling of counterfeit currency notes manufactured in Bangladesh and circulated in India via Malada (West Bengal) and via Uttar Pradesh through Nepal boarder. 
 
 “We had specific information on the accused identified as  , a native of Richhara village under Jalaun district of Uttar Pradesh he was visiting   in Dausa district and was in possession of counterfeit currency notes worth nearly Rs 3.30 lakh. During morning hours on Tuesday our team found his location near Khasa Kothi from he was arrested with the possession of counterfeit currency notes,” said  , additional superintendent of police, SOG on Tuesday. 
 
 SOG officials stated that a case under section 289 of IPC was lodged against the accused and since the seized counterfeit currency notes are more than Rs 1 lakh a case under appropriate sections Unlawful Assembly Act. 
 
 Accused   is a former Sarpanch of his village and has a land of nearly 50 Beeghas. “He has confessed that he met somebody in Malda jail who asked him to get the currency from Uttar Pradesh and later wait for a call in Dausa to deliver it. We will interrogate him to find where he was actually delivering the currency notes,” Sharma added. 
 
 The accused would be produced in a court on Wednesday when SOG is likely to ask for a police remand of 5-days. 
 
 SOG officials said that the quality of the notes is good and it is difficult for a layman to differentiate between the seized currency notes and the genuine ones. “Such quality notes are manufactures mainly in Khulna district of Bangladesh,” said an officer. 
 
 
