Vadodara: In a major embarassment to the city police, a gang of thieves broke open six ATMs in the city’s peripherial areas within few hours on Sunday night and stole Rs 14.94 lakh cash from five.

 The gang of five thieves used gas cutters to break the ATMs of the government-run and private banks in Tarsali, Manjalpur, Ajwa Road, Makarpura and near Vadsar bridge. It is suspected that the thieves took full advantage of the heavy police bandobast deployed in communally sensitive areas for Uttarayan.
 
 While the city had just ended Uttarayan celebrations on Sunday, a gang of five thieves targeted six ATMs on the peripheries of the city and stole Rs 14.94 lakh cash from five machines using gas cutters. Three ATMs were broke in Makarpura police station area, two in Manjalpur police jurisdiction and one in Bapod police station area.
 
 The ATM machines targeted were of State Bank of India (SBI) near Tarsali vegetable market, Bank of India (BOI) near Sai Baba Temple in Tarsali, ICICI Bank near Air Force station in Makarpura and Manjalpur, Bank of Baroda (BoB) opposite Leprosy Ground on Ajwa Road and HDFC Bank near Vadsar bridge. The burglars tried to break cash box of HDFC Bank too but they had to escape from there after the siren went off.
 
 The thieves also seem to have deliberately targeted the ATMs in areas on the periphery so that they can escape easily. It is suspected that they fled from the national highway 8 which is directly connected to the approach roads to the city. All the thefts are suspected to have happened between Sunday midnight and Monday 4:30am.
 
 According to complaints received by police, cash amounting to Rs 13.88 lakh was stolen from Bank of Baroda ATM, Rs 94,600 and Rs 11,300 cash was stolen from State Bank of India and ICICI Bank ATM at Vadsar bridge respectively. Cops could not get details of the cash stolen from other two ATMs. 
 
 Police officials said that a single gang has carried out the crime seeing the similarity in modus operandi in stealing the cash and leaving the cash boxes behind.
 
 While the police have obtained the CCTV camera footages of the ATMs, different teams of detection of crime branch, special operations group, prevention of crime branch among others have been formed to nab the thieves.
 
 The break-ins have raised serious questions on night patrolling of the police but senior officials said that entire force on Sunday was concentrated in the Walled City area to maintain law and order during Uttarayan.
 
 “The entire force including the cops on periphery had to be deployed in the Walled City area because Mandvi and the surrounding areas are communally sensitive especially during festivals. Otherwise our night patrolling is very intensive in the periphery areas. 
 
 It was on Sunday that a vacuum was created and a gang from outside the city committed the crime within a night,” said Manoj Sashidhar, commissioner of police . He added that the police have got some leads and are working on it.
 
 Security lapse by banks
 
 Interestingly, all the six ATMs that were targeted did not have a security guard, which police believe is a major lapse on the side of the companies which maintain them. Police officials said that in the past too when isolated incidents of ATM thefts had taken place and Monday incident, they have asked these companies to invest in security and technology which can prevent such break-ins. A senior official said that these days even residents have high-tech security systems in their houses, while these are ATMs therefore the cash handling companies should have such technologies.
 
 Gang that robbed eight women still free
 
 It was only a little over a fornight ago when a gang of chain snatchers had targeted eight women in different areas. Then too, the miscreants had robbed women in the peripherial areas and had escaped through National Highway-8. The gang might be different than the one which was on prowl last night, but their methods were similar. The chain snatchers have not been nabbed the cops yet.
 
 
