PUDUCHERRY: All the 23 students of Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya (JNV),  , cleared the   (Main) maintaining the institution’s excellent track record in cracking one of the toughest entrance examinations in the country. Adityaraj Singh Chouhan (Madhya Pradesh), who joined Class 11 at JNV, stood first scoring 261 marks out of the maximum 360 marks. He secured   1043.

 Last year, 20 out of 21 students from JNV, Puducherry, cleared the IIT-JEE (Main) examinations. Eleven of them went on to clear the advanced examinations. In 2016, all 23 students cleared the main examinations and 16 of them cleared the advanced examinations.
 
 The students attributed their success to an NGO, ‘Avanti Fellows’ formed by two former IITians (Akshay Saxena and Krishna Ramkumar), which offers two-year online coaching and training for merit students from rural background studying in govt schools. Avanti Fellows has launched the online coaching in seven JNVs in Karnataka and Puducherry. Apart from JNV, Puducherry, the NGO has launched its intensive training at JNVs in Mangalore, Koppal, Bidar, Chickmangalur, Hassan and Shimoga districts. Of the total 162 students in the six institutions, 111 cleared the main examinations this year, said Avanti Fellows’ in-charge Agny Ganesh.
 
 JNV, principal B Venkateswaran and teaching staff members were ecstatic over the performance of their students. “Our students have been performing consistently in the last two or three years in the JEE main and advanced examinations. Each student who cleared the exam has a mentor from IIT Madras. The mentors visit the pupil once in a fortnight when they were in Class 12 and offer them valuable tips and guidance in clearing the exams.” said Venkateswaran.
 
 Son of a govt school teacher and a homemaker in Shajapur town near Bhopal in Madhya Pradesh, Adityaraj Singh Chouhan aspires to be a mechanical engineer. “The focus now is to clear the advanced examinations. My aim is to join mechanical engineering at IIT, Madras. I hope my dream comes true and I will come back as a mentor to guide the students aspiring to join IITs,” said Chouhan, who is also preparing for the National eligibility cum entrance test (Neet).
 
 
