JAIPUR: Until   mining ban, 37-year-old Bherav Mal Bariwa was among the first few labourers to be picked by contractors as his ripped body displays hard work.

 In the past two months, Bariwa who travels from Bhoorla village near Bassi got opportunity to work at construction sites only six times on daily wages. The remaining days, he returned empty-handed without earning a penny.
 
 “Everyday, I come to city with a hope that I would find work. However, as the construction industry is hit badly, labourers do not have work. If the situation lingers on, we are worried about feeding our kids,” said Bariwa.
 
 Like Bariwa, there are lakhs of labourers who have decided not to come back again till the time real estate industry gains momentum as commuting and staying in city is costing them fortunes.
 
 After the Supreme Court imposed the ban on sand mining, workers are finding it difficult to make a living in urban areas, more of them are now going back to villages and fewer rural people are migrating to cities.
 
 People migrated from agriculture to the non-farm sector for better wages. However, unavailability of sand for construction has posed serious employment problems for thousands of labourers, workers and consumers. The dramatic drop in construction activities after the ban is also having a cascading effect on other related businesses.
 
 Developers added that nearly 5 lakh labourers, including migrant labourers depend on construction and allied industries.
 
 Gopal Das Gupta, chairman, CREDAI,  , said, “More than 70% projects in the city came to halt. There are more than 250 units associated with construction industry. In absence of work, labourers are struggling for their survival. A viable alternative should be explored by the state government soon,” he added.
 
 Recently, while the Supreme Court refused to give any relief to the state government on sand mining ban, the Rajasthan High Court too stayed the notification for auction of 31 sand mining leases issued to tide over the shortage of sand (bajri) in the state.
 
 Congress vice-president   said, “Livelihood of more than 6 lakh labourers is affected. The ban on sand mining has rendered them unemployed; the poor have been hit the most because the government has sided with illegal miners. The government should have applied for environment clearances on time, so that such situation would have averted,” she said.
 
 
