TRICHY: Continuing its crackdown against the circulation of banned plastic carry bags in the city, the   on Tuesday seized close to 250kg of plastic carry bags that are less than 50 micron in thickness. Several shops near the Central bus stand that were found using the banned plastic carry bags were penalised up to Rs 5,000 per shop.

 To strengthen the central government’s Plastic Waste Management Rules, 2016 encompassing revised anti-plastic drive, the Trichy Corporation the civic body in August 2016 implemented the Act giving more teeth to sanitary officials to seize plastic carry bags less than 50 micron thickness.
 
 However, as the implementation of the revised rules on plastic waste did not bear desired results due to poor support from traders and public, the corporation and district administration re-implemented the ban and also declared that traders would be penalised heavily if they are found circulating substandard plastic bags from January 26, 2018. 
 
 After the deadline was over, as part of ongoing drive against plastic pollution, corporation officials on Tuesday conducted surprise inspections at 30 shops near central bus stand in Cantonment.
 
 To their shock, officials said that they even came across 40 micron plastic carry bags being labelled and sold as 50 micron carry bags. “Street vendors as well as the established shops on   were found continuing the usage of illegal plastic carry bags as a giveaway along the products purchased by public,” an official said. 
 
 “After the deadline (January 26), about 30% of the circulation of illegal plastic carry bags have come down. We have planned to make inspection and subsequent levying of penalties routine to ensure better support from traders,” city health officer Dr R   told TOI.
 
 Tuesday's raids across the shops in Cantonment netted a sum of Rs 11,000 as penalty. The shops were instructed to pay the penalty within three days. Further, the civic body is planning to target plastic godowns in the city from where the banned plastic carry bags are reaching the traders.
 
 
