MUMBAI: In a major relief to motorists travelling from south Mumbai to the western suburbs, the   has plans to construct a bridge from Mahim to Bandra east on the Western Express Highway (WEH). 

 The BMC will soon start a hydrographic survey to study several elements, including deciding upon the bridge’s alignment. 
 
 A civic official said the bridge will begin from a dead end near Mahim’s S L Raheja Hospital and end at the Western Express Highway. 
 
 The project could even find a mention in the BMC budget 2018-19. “Currently, there there is congestion on LJ Road in Mahim as motorists try to reach parts of the western suburbs. A bridge therefore will help to decongest the area tremendously,” said a senior BMC official. 
 
 The BMC plans to undertake a hydrographic survey since the bridge will pass over the creek. “Through the survey, we will examine aspects like the water body’s depth. This is important as the pillars would need to be constructed,” the official added. The survey will also help in determining the best alignment for the bridge. The proposal for conducting the survey will need to be sent to the civic standing committee for approval, said officials. 
 
 Once the survey is completed, the BMC will need several clearances, including Coastal Regulation Zone (CRZ) permission, considering that the bridge would pass close to the mangroves. The Mumbai Metro has also sought some land from the BMC at the Mahim-end due to which the project study is yet to take off. 
 
 Transport expert Ashok Datar said that the bridge would prove to be a beneficial connector as it would provide commuters with another option of reaching Tulsi Pipe Road. “The project will need a lot of detailing, like if there are three-plus-three lanes proposed, then one lane could be for a dedicated bus corridor. The corridor for public transport will help the public at large,” said Datar. 
 
 “A detailed study will be essential as there are several crucial aspects like mangroves, railways involved. The project’s feasibility must be examined,” said Bandra corporator Asif Zakeria.
 
