
Given the struggle that students had to bear last year over the failed on-screen marking system (OSM), this year, students wish for an error-free system to be in place. Vaibhavi Chaddha, a TYBA student from Bhavan’s College, Andheri, says, “After what happened to my seniors last year, I would wish for a system to be in place, where we do not have to worry about our results being delayed or marks being incorrect, as that would directly affect my future.”
 
 
 
 Ranjika Bhattacharya, a student of  , emphasises on the need to make the educational system a little more flexible. She says, “The 75 per cent attendance rule needs to be modified. There are days when we only have one or two lectures and it doesn’t make sense to stay on campus for the entire day.”
 
 
 
 Divya Sharma, a SYBCom student from   believes that at least one foreign language should be a part of the curriculum. She says, “It will help us in the long run when we move out to apply for courses abroad or even if we want to explore different careers. Since most of us are tuned into social media, a course on digital marketing will also benefit us.”
 
 
 
 Sheena Oberoi, a TYBMS student from St Xavier’s College hopes that debating committees in colleges are given enough opportunities. She says, “Being a good debater, I would like colleges to start giving more opportunities to their debating committee, so that we can not only compete at an inter-collegiate level, but also nationally.”
 
 
 
 While there are some colleges which are providing their students with internship opportunities and in-house placements, there are others which do not have such facilities. Himanshu Manwani, a TYBMS student from   says, “I hope to get an internship in a reputed marketing firm. This will help me prepare better for my MBA entrance exam, while also giving me a hands-on experience.” Adding to this, Himanshu’s classmate, Anam Khan says, “I want to score a good CGPA (Cumulative Grade Points Average), which will help me get a better job after my graduation.”
 
 
 
 Going beyond the textbooks, students wish to have more extracurricular activities and practical experience as part of their syllabus. Gauthami Bitla, a FYBSc (Biotechnology) student from KC College says, “I don’t just want to be a bookworm. I wish to explore and participate in extracurricular activities. For this, I would like the University to modify the traditional methods of teaching and make more use of technology.” Adding to this, her classmate, Ranjika says, “Teachers and parents should encourage students to participate in more activities and events because college is not just about studies and grades alone.”
 
 
