BARNALA: Taking note of grave irregularities in the construction of flats at Maharaja Aggarsain Enclave in Barnala, the local government department on Friday placed four officials, including two executive officers, under suspension.

 The officials, who have been suspended by local government minister Navjot Singh Sidhu, have been identified as former executive officers Jatinder Singh and Jiwan Bansal, Barnala Improvement Trust engineer Satbhushan Sachdeva and assistant engineer Baljit Singh.
 
 All four worked with Barnala Improvement Trust at different times and none is posted in Barnala now. The scheme was launched in 2006, with then chief minister Amarinder Singh laying the foundation stone of the enclave on November 19. On the occasion, he had also declared Barnala as the 20th district of Punjab.
 
 There was a provision of constructing 84 flats for the middle income group (MIG) and low income group (LIG) in three towers on 18.25 acres. Two towers were built but the third tower is still not complete.
 
 Besides, there have been complaints by the allottees of use of substandard material in the flats. Earlier on May 4, 2017, local government minister Sidhu had placed 10 officials of Bathinda Improvement Trust under suspension following complaints of substandard material used in construction of flats in Manmohan Kalia Scheme in the town.
 
 Sources said the allottees had complained of grave financial irregularities in the construction of LIG flats at block ‘B’ in Maharaja Aggarsain Enclave and investigations had found the allegations to be true.
 
 It was found that payments had been made even for those works in the flats which were not done. On the filing of the complaint, the officials, allegedly in order to brush the irregularities under the carpet, stopped payments and adjusted the bills. Apart from that the orders have also been issued to chargesheet the four officials and junior engineer Ram Singh under Section (8) of Improvement Trust Act.
 
 Minister Sidhu said he had got complaints regarding use of substandard material in the construction of flats and other financial irregularities too were committed and acting on it the action has been taken.
 
 Barnala deputy commissioner Dharampal Gupta, who is also chairman of the improvement trust, said that the MIG flats were priced at Rs 14.50 lakh and LIG flats at Rs. 10.50 lakh but irregularities were detected in their construction.
 
