Touted as the biggest ever defence exhibition, DefExpo-2018 will be formally inaugurated by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on April 12. The expo is spread on an impressive 2.9 lakh sq ft area and 75% of its participants will be Indian companies and almost 20% MSMEs (micro, small and medium enterprises). 

 By and large, Defexpos in the past have been platforms for foreign vendors and manufacturers to showcase their products and lobby hard to get a big pie of the export orders. India has been a big importer of defence hardware as its own   programmes have faltered on many counts. The defence procurement policy guidelines also did not help much as those who wanted to invest in the mandatory share of their orders up to 30% did not find suitable partners in India. 
 
 It is ironical that India which has succeeded in the space segment with massive indigenisation, has managed to produce cryogenic engines and build its own nuclear submarine has been unable to overcome the daunting challenges of indigenisation. The Defence Ministry’s ‘Make in India’ slogan has not gained any traction so far. 
 
 While the last such expo was held in Goa, defence minister   has chosen TN for the current one. The display and demonstrations on the east coast will bring out the fact that most of the platforms, weapons and sensors are imported and in some cases - naval helicopters for instance — are obsolete. 
 
 But, Sitharaman’s focus is to have defence corridors that would enable big and small MSMEs to accelerate the speed of indigenisation. She proposes to do this by creating two corridors — one connecting Chennai and Bengaluru and the other in Uttar Pradesh. The BJP which is not in government in either TN or Karnataka will be required to deftly deal with the state governments to manage investments in the corridors and ensure their support for land acquisition and infrastructure.
 
 The Centre’s intentions are laudable, but need to be nurtured by overcoming all existing hurdles for private players. There is no doubt that MSMEs and private manufacturers have the wherewithal to meet the nation’s ambitions to be self-sufficient. But, unfortunately, many enthusiastic private players are put off with the procedural delays, bureaucracy and lack of a sustainable ecosystem. Interestingly, the ministry’s invitation to the defence attaches of many countries is to showcase our potential in some of the successful indigenous products which would be cleared for export. However, the process is a long and arduous one in comparison to China’s successful export programme which has captured substantial export orders from developing countries including India’s neighbours. 
 
 The expo will also witness a keen competition among Boeing, Lockheed Martin, SAAB and Dassault who are now looking at India’s requirement for 110 twin engine aircraft to make good the shortages of its fighter squadron. Here again, the earlier offer of USA to make the F16, defies all logic of making current gen aircraft in the country. An obsolete aircraft, for which there were no orders within the US, was being offered to India, to make way for its F35 assembly line. Making the indigenous fighter plane LCA (light combat aircraft), has taken its time but, has to be supported at any cost. If LCA does not succeed, there would be no MMRCA (medium multi-role combat aircraft) from our stables. 
 
 There is also a need for the users (defence forces) to be involved with the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) from the drawing board stage itself as a dedicated team of users with the DRDO will enhance the chances of success of our own products. The Navy is a fine example of successful indigenisation. From having just a Leander-class frigate in 1972, the Navy has come a long way in building its own ships and is currently building an aircraft carrier. 
 
 There is also a need for the IITs and other scientific institutions to come aboard for the programme for the proposed corridors. 
 
 We also have to learn from success stories and past mistakes to have workable templates. On the issue of export to other nations, there is a greater need to take the present engagement to higher levels. India will need to up the ante in defence exports by offering extended loans/grants and long term commitment to supporting the defence hardware supplied by it. The most important challenge is to ensure that we are able to meet our own requirements first and build confidence among both the users and the industry about our intentions to change the way in which India has conducted business in the past decades. The lackadaisical approach in the past on the issue of imports and indigenisation and the shabby treatment given to enthusiastic defence private Indian manufacturers has caused enormous damage. At the end of the   it should not be a case of the more things change, the more they remain the same. 
 
 (The author is regional director, National Maritime Foundation, Chennai Chapter; and head, Strategy and Security Studies, Centre for Asia Studies, Chennai)
 
 
