Kanyakumari: Eleven fishermen, including six from Kanyakumari district, four from Nagapattinam and one from Kerala who were stranded about 96 nautical miles off Ratnagiri in Maharashtra for three days managed to get help late on Sunday night. The fishermen are now heading to Kochi and are expected to reach on Wednesday evening.

 The fishermen were identified as S Lidwinraj, D Revaldo, Devadas, A John and J John of Iraiviputhanthurai in Kanyakumari district, G Dhasan of Kollemcode in Kanyakumari district, M Chandrababu, V Yedayanayagam, P Chitravel and C Kanniyappan of Nagapattinam and S Roopan of Thiruvananthapuram, Kerala.
 
 The boat ‘Mariam’ in which they went fishing belongs to P Sarjan of Thoothoor in Kanyakumari district. They set sail from Kochi fisheries harbour on January 7 and were engaged in deep sea fishing about 550 nautical miles (more than 1,000km away) when they ran out of fuel and were stranded off Ratnagiri on February 2.
 
 “On Sunday, a passing by ship spotted Mariam and informed the Coast Guard at Ratnagiri. We received information about the stranded boat before afternoon and tried to get help from the Coast Guard at Ratnagiri from 1.30pm,” said president of Thoothoor Fishermen Cooperative Society, J Jose Bilbin.
 
 He told TOI that the CG personnel there however repeatedly said that they only have a small boat and will not be able to go so far into the sea and help the stranded fishermen. So, around 4pm, Bilbin made an audio recording of the plight of these stranded fishermen and the response he got from the CG, at Ratnagiri.
 
 “I circulated it to top officials in the state and central governments and it ultimately reached defence minister Nirmala Sitharaman late in the evening. She took it to the notice of Maharashtra chief minister Devendra Fadnavis through Twitter and also over phone and efforts were taken to get them help,” Bilbin said. The audio also went viral on social media.
 
 The same night the location of the boat was identified and the Maharashtra CM tweeted that all the fishermen were safe but the boat ran out of fuel. But the boat was yet to get help. “So we got in touch with boat Asma Mariam belonging to Yohannan of Thoothoor, Kanyakumari, that was fishing there to help the stranded boat,” he added.
 
 Asma Mariam gave 350 litres diesel to Mariam and the two boats together started off to Kochi. Unaware of this development, the CG at Ratnagiri was shocked to see the boat missing at the place where it was stranded on Monday morning. An aircraft was then deployed in a search and the boat was spotted heading to Kochi.
 
 The CG then provided food to the fishermen and 250 litres diesel to reach Kochi. Fisheries department officials said that diesel leak in the boat had resulted in the boat getting stranded.
 
 
