NAVI MUMBAI: In an all-out effort to force the state government to transfer   Sudhakar Shinde, the BJP-dominated general body of the   (PCMC) passed a   against him on Monday. There were 50 votes in favour of the motion and 22 against it. The voting took place amid much din.

 Shinde’s working style had not gone down well the   corporators, who said he took unilateral decisions and was not inclined to consult the elected representatives.
 
 All BJP corporators assembled in the Phadke auditorium and voted for the motion, while all other corporators who were present voted against it. The Bharatiya Shetkari Kamgar Paksha (BSKP), Congress and NCP together cast 22 votes against it. The resolution will now be sent to the government. The motion was debated for over four hours.
 
 Defending the commissioner, BSKP leader and corporator Surekha Mohekar asked how had the PCMC improved its Swachh survey ranking and obtained the open-defecation-free status if the commissioner had been inefficient. She also wanted to know whether any charges of corruption or indiscipline had been levelled against the Shinde to warrant his transfer.
 
 BJP corporator Santosh Shetty blamed Shinde for failing to get GST compensation from the state government, saying 26 corporations had received it but not Panvel.
 
 Leader of the House Paresh Thakur said he and his party colleagues had always cooperated with the commissioner and even brought him back after his transfer during the elections, but Shinde should explain how Cidco could handle lifting of garbage with seven officers but the PCMC could not do it.
 
 “The commissioner also issued false statements to the media on issues like recruitment without sharing the details of the decision with the general body,” he said.
 
 Pointing out the reasons for moving the no-confidence motion, Thakur said Cidco had offered PCMC 84 plots for social amenities but the municipality had shown no interest in taking over the plots. “Ward committees have not been formed out of fear of decentralisation and loss of the commissioner’s authority,” he said.
 
 Chief minister Devendra Fadnavis has so far sided with Shinde, whose brother is a cabinet minister. Shinde had recently met the CM. “I have not spoken about my transfer with the CM but requested his intervention in the proper functioning of the civic body,” Shinde said on Monday.
 
 Shinde is also believed to enjoy popular support in Panvel, with many a citizen activist lauding his efforts for cleanliness in the city.
 
 
