SURAT: In a  ,   in Athwalines have started carpooling and motorcycle pooling to reach the court campus which is plagued by parking problems.

 At least 51 judges have started sharing vehicles for the last few weeks and they are using 12 cars and five motorcycles, a senior court official confirmed to TOI.
 
 “Judges get fuel allowance for cars and majority of them used to come by the four-wheelers. But owing to due to the parking issue they have started doing started sharing vehicle,” said a court official.
 
 Following the practice started by the judges, more space has been created for lawyers to keep their tables and operate from there.
 
 Kirit Panwala, president of  , said, “Carpooling is a good initiative by the judges. Among lawyers, we have no such plans as we have to rush to different places during the day and we need our own vehicles.”
 
 Traffic experts have repeatedly advocated vehicle pooling in cities in order to reduce congestion on the roads and reduce pollution. The parking and seating space crunch for lawyers began after the demolition of the old court building a few months ago. Those lawyers sitting in the old court building, which has already been razed now, had no space to sit. Later, judges offered the parking sheds of their cars to the lawyers and started carpooling.
 
 The road outside the court campus remains jam-packed due to private vehicles parked on both sides as well as below the under-construction flyover bridge. City traffic police initiated action only after TOI reported about the issue but this was only temporary. Only 30% space is available for parking after the demolition started. Large number of police vehicles bringing undertrials and convicts have no option but to park in the middle of the road or away from the entry gate. However, this may cause security concerns as the undertrials or convicts need to be freed of the handcuffs when brought in court as per rules. Parking near the entry gate is almost impossible due to several layers of unauthorized parking of vehicles.
 
 
