HYDERABAD: An initiative to end   was launched by the US consul general in Hyderabad, NGO Prajwala and Telugu film industry on Monday. The judiciary, police and state government officials have also extended support for the cause.

 
 The approach to fight the malady is unique in the sense that the focus is on fighting the demand. “It is about demand and supply. If there is no demand from men, a lot of girls and women can be saved from being pushed into sex slavery,” said founder of Prajwala,  .
 
 
 With this in mind, the ‘Men Against Demand (MAD)’ initiative was launched. It will focus on the demand being wiped out altogether. “The problem of sex trafficking is there even in the US. The issue has to be addressed there too,” said US consul general in Hyderabad, Katherine Hadda.
 
 
 During the programme, a short film produced by Geetha Arts, a production house of  , was screened. The film was directed
 
 
 It is about demand and supply. If there is no demand from men, a lot of girls and women can be saved from being pushed into sex slavery.
 
 Rachakonda police commissioner Mahesh Bhagwat said what needed attention was tackling online trafficking. “There are intermediaries online who engage in sextrafficking. The focus should be on going all out against them,” he said.
 
 
 Actress  , producer-director Vishnu Manchu, actor Banerjee and senior government officials, including Jayesh Ranjan, IPS officer Sowmya Mishra, directors Sukumar and Dasharath, participated and explained how they would contribute in their own way to fight sex-trafficking. UK’s deputy commissioner to Telangana and Andhra Pradesh in Hyderabad, Andrew Fleming, said UK would like to team up with the US consulate in the mission that has been taken up.
 
 
 Justice Challa Kodandaram, Justice P Naveen Rao and Justice S V Bhatt, who participated in the programme, appreciated the initiative and the public service announcements (PSAs) that were made by Ramoji, Sun Touch and Geetha Arts. The PSAs were handed over to Prajwala’s chairperson, gynaecologist Dr P Balamba.
 
 
