Mumbai’s citizens and celebrities have come together to paint its walls and facades. Artist  , who’s behind the initiative, says, “You’ve heard of the phrase ‘Paint the town red’. Well, this goes a step further. You can now use different colours to paint the city’s little hamlets,   and other areas.” There’s a wide variety of creativity on display — from flowers and butterflies to trees and stars. Ready to pick up a paint brush? Read on…

 
 
 
  
  
 
 Several areas in the city have undergone a paint job and the first to go through a makeover was  , once known as Asia’s largest slum. Young boys and girls took up this task, which gave them a chance to not only earn, but also give their homes a different look. This was followed by the vertical slum of   at Ghatkopar, Mumbai’s iconic Dhobi Ghat, Jaffer Baba Colony in Bandra and the slums at   and  , too. At present, the   is getting a similar revamp. Little houses here stand cheek by jowl in pretty shades of cobalt blue, yellow ochre, teal, coral peach and more. “It’s not just a beautification project, but a kind of civic awakening, that’s much needed in Mumbai,” says Rouble. “When residents take up the brush and paint their walls, it gives them a sense of community ownership. People learn to value their area. It also creates awareness about hygiene and cleanliness. Besides, colour is also healing and is therapeutic,” adds organiser Shekhar Khanna. From students to office-goers and locals, everyone wants to chip in. What started out with just four people in Dharavi, has now become an elaborate project attracting volunteers every day, 
 especially the youth.
 
 
  
  
 
 Srinath Radhakrishnan, TYBMS student of  , Matunga, who’s painting a vertical wall at the start of the Worli Fishing Village, says, “It feels good to contribute to actual change in Mumbai, that too, at a place we have largely ignored. I feared I would spoil the walls, as I did not know how to paint before this. But look, I’ve painted quite well,” he grins. Adds his classmate Tejas Agrawal, who has been ‘on site’ for the last eight days, “I have a letter from college stating that I can be here; my seniors are proud of me. It feels very nice to see the village when I pass by the Sea Link now, it’s become more visible and I feel happy to have been a part of the work.”
 Civic duties are part of the makeover. “On the second day of garbage collection, we accumulated around 60-70 bags of garbage. Never in my life will I throw garbage in the wrong places now, as it 
 has made me realise that it takes just a millisecond to litter, but a huge effort to clean it up,” adds Srinath. 
 Others like them join the effort on weekends or between their classes. Aditya Anil, a TYBCom student from Acharya College, Chembur, is pitching in on a study break. “I participated in the cleanliness drive as well as helped in painting the walls of the houses.” His friends are all set to accompany him. “It’s a small move, but if we can change things ourselves at the grassroots level, why not?” he asks. 
 Adds Khushali Jain, a standard XII student of the  , Fort, “Before this, social services to us meant going to different schools and teaching kids ABC. But this activity has opened our eyes to different ways that we can contribute to our society — even by way of painting a wall to add colour, design and creativity to our city and cleaning it.”
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
