KOZHIKODE: To combat the Nipah virus, the state government is procuring human monoclonal antibody (hmAb) from Australia, a drug that has been found effective on animals though they are as yet unproven on humans. "Drugs that are not approved can be tested out on compassionate grounds on human. The antibody from   has been administered to people on compassionate grounds before and they survived the virus," said health secretary Rajeev Sadanandan. 

 The   (ICMR), the apex body for formulation, coordination and promotion of biomedical research, has written to the Queensland government in this regard. "The Australian government has said that they will be able to send 50 doses of the antibody for people tested positive with Nipah virus by next week. We are preparing a dossier on it," said Dr Balram Bhargava, director general of  . There was no fatality reported on Friday, though the official death toll from the Nipah virus rose to 12, with the death of one person earlier in the week being confirmed as having resulted from the infection. 
 
 
 
 
 Is the Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode, already in possession of human monoclonal antibody (hmAb), considered to have the potential to reduce mortality among  ? State health minister K K Shailaja in a news conference on Friday claimed that 50 doses of the antibody, which has been tested on Hendra (which is similar to Nipah) patients in Australia, has already reached the hospital.
 
 But Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) officials said the process to procure the antibody has been initiated and it would take a week. The antibody has been found to be effective on animals. The state government is getting the drug for use on compassionate grounds. “The Australian government has said that they will be able to send 50 doses of the antibody for people tested positive with Nipah virus by next week. We are preparing a dossier for it,” said Dr Balram Bhargava, director general, Indian Council of Medical Research.
 
 The process began after ICMR, the apex body for formulation, coordination and promotion of biomedical research, wrote to the Queensland government in Australia, he said.
 
 Soumya Swaminathan, deputy director general, programmes, WHO, had a video conference with health secretary Rajeev Sadanandan and experts of National Council for Diseases Control in this regard.
 
 “Drugs that are not approved can be tested out on compassionate grounds on human. The antibody from Australia has been administered on people on compassionate grounds before and they survived the virus,” said health secretary Rajeev Sadanandan.
 
 Officials at ICMR said that the antibody was tested on a related virus Hendra virus in Australia and found to be helpful. “It was administered on 20 humans on compassionate grounds in Australia, with success in 19,” said an ICMR official “We don’t yet know how much it will work against Nipah virus. But using their guidelines, we can try. It may not produce much harm but whether it will work or not is to be seen,” said Dr Sajith Kumar R, head, department of infectious diseases, Kottayam Medical College.
 
 Hendra and Nipah are closely related highly pathogenic paramyxoviruses that cause severe diseases such as encephalitis in animals and humans with fatality rates of up to 75%. Due to their high case fatality rate and the lack of effective vaccines or therapy, they are classified as Biosafety Level 4 pathogens.
 
 
 
