NAGPUR: The BJP-ruled Nagpur   continues to face mounting pressure from a senior party leader to reinstate the 17 employees (one of them already passed away) who were dismissed for being appointed despite irregularities in recruitment process.

 The proposal of the general administration to reinstate the 17 sacked employees Subhash Ghate, Ramesh Bawankar, Ashok Deogade, Arun Khopdem, Vijay Hatwar, Yusuf Yaqub, Deepak Potphode, Prakash Barde, Ganpat Barahate, Gangadhar Bhiwgade, Durga Tahliyani, Shalu Khopde, Ratnakar Dhote, Jeevak Shamkule, Vinayak Pendke, Suresh Barwe and Vinod Sonone, who was already passed in 2015, will be tabled before the general body meeting on Friday.
 
 The issue of irregularities in recruitment process came to fore after a petition was filed in the high court. Following HC order, an inquiry committee was formed which found many wrongdoings. The irregularities included: five applicants were appointed despite no applications from them; five had been appointed even though they had not appeared for any interview, six persons appointed even after their applications were rejected. However, one was selected from among the wait-listed candidates. To pave his appointment, another candidate’s name was deleted from the selection list.
 
 Actually,   had invited applications against 161 posts of different cadres in 1993. The general body had approved the proposal to appoint 152 candidates on August 21, 1997.
 
 However, following revelations of irregularities in recruitment process, 106 of these employees were sacked.
 
 Later, the employees had challenged the NMC decision with urban development department in Mumbai. Then principal secretary (UDD) TC Benjamin had asked then municipal commissioners T Chandrasekhar and Manu Kumar Shrivastav to reinstate all employees. NMC then reinstated 89 employees but ignored these 17 staffers given the gravity of irregularities in their appointments.
 
 Hearing a writ petition filed by one the sacked employees, the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court had on July 8, 2015, directed the state UDD to decide on their case within three months. The UDD under the chief minister had not taken any decision until a self-immolation bid by five dismissed civic employees in front of chief minister’s official residence Ramgiri in Nagpur. Then the state UDD had issued a notification directing the NMC to take a call on whether to reinstate or uphold the termination of 17 employees.
 
 Sources, however, said the proposal may pass smoothly as apart from ruling party, opposition parties too are extending support to reinstate the employees.
 
 Following pressure from a senior   leader from east Nagpur, the civic administration has submitted the proposal to reinstate them.
 
 
