NEW DELHI: The Aam Aadmi Party government will table the   budget, or the   made on general public by departmental performances, for the first time in the Delhi assembly on Wednesday after it included such an exercise in the   announcements last year. Deputy chief minister   will present the “outcome” of the government’s schemes and policies in the House.

 The status report for the target and performance of each department will be in a specified format as laid out in the outcome budget documents. The data and information presented will relate to the three financial quarters from April to December 2017. The last quarter will end only on March 31, so the review for January to March will be carried out after that date, officials said. 
 
 The government had announced last year that the implementation status of departmental work would be made available in the public domain after every quarterly review. But officials admitted that since this was the first year of the outcome budget, putting up the quarterly updates took longer. The planning department website, of late, has a link showing the department-wise status reports pertaining to April-September 2017. The link for October-December is in the process of being activated, sources said. 
 
 For the purpose of the outcome budget, whose aim is to “usher transparency and accountability in public spending”, all departments have been categorised under eight heads: education, health, social security and welfare, urban development and housing, water supply and sewerage, infrastructure, environment and forests, and others.
 
 The outcome budget lists the programmes or schemes, fund allocation and completion timelines. It also has the programme objectives, and, therefore, the outcome and output indicators for each. The baseline values for 2016-17 and targets for 2017-18 are also listed. For better understanding of the performance, there is also a column on the risk factors involved and pertinent explanatory remarks from each department.
 
 
