New Delhi: It was a good year for the Indian football. Not only did the country successfully host its first ever   event – the Under-17 World Cup - but the youngsters who represented India mesmerised critics and fans alike with their skills. India even created history as the fans of the ‘beautiful game’ welcomed the World Cup with open arms and set a record for attendance. All this coincided with the rise of the Indian men’s football team.

 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 When India got a chance to show the world that it loves football, it did so in style. The tournament was a great success, with the host country getting rave reviews from the governing body, global audience as well as participating teams. England won the world title as they came from two goals down to beat Spain 5-2 in one of the best comebacks in summit clashes.
 
 Not much was expected from India, the lowest-ranked team in the tournament, and they lost all their group matches to bow out early. But the players won admiration from all around for their fighting spirits and skills. Indian players managed to show the world that they are not that far behind in terms of talent.
 
 
 
 
 
 India lost their opening match 0-3 to USA. But three days later, they created history by scoring a goal against Colombia, even though they lost the tie 1-2. One had to be there in the stadium, when Thounaojam Jeakson Singh scored the historical goal, to believe how 48,000 Indian fans brought the house down in celebration. India's campaign ended with a 0-4 thrashing by two-time champions Ghana.
 
 The icing on the cake was that the 2017 edition became the most attended U-17 World Cups in history with a total stadium attendance of 1,347,133 - which is approximately 25,900 per game. It surpassed the previous record of 1,230,976 set at the1985 edition in China.
 
 
  
  
  
 
 Believe it or not, but the Indian national team has not lost an international fixture since March 2016. A record 13-match unbeaten run, which in 2017 included seven wins and two draws. In the process, India qualified for the 2019 AFC Asian Cup, the biggest continental tournament, by topping their play-off round group with two games to spare. This impressive run was reflected in their much-improved FIFA ranking as they touched a high of 96 in July before ending the year at 105.
 
 India registered four victories in as many game at the Asian Cup qualifiers to book their ticket to the UAE. Captain Sunil Chhetri top-scored for the team with four goals in five games. It will be India’s fourth Asian Cup participation, after 1964, 1984 and 2011.
 
 
 
 The highest FIFA ranking under coach Stephen Constantine was just short of India's highest ever standing of 94, which was achieved in February 1996. Constantine has truly turned around the team, which was was ranked 171st when he took charge for a second term in February 2015.
 
 
 
 
  
 Aizawl FC from Mizoram gave Indian football fans a chance to enjoy what Premier League fans in England did in 2016 when Leicester City came from nowhere to win arguably the most popular football league. Aizawl did the same in India's premier football competition, the  , as they outlasted traditional powerhouse Mohun Bagan by one point on the last day of the league.
 
 But the celebrations was hindered by news that they might not be featuring in the top league the next season and beyond. There were murmurs of the All India Football Federation (AIFF) merging the I-League with the cash-rich Indian Super League ( ), with the latter getting prominence. After much hue and cry, with Aizawl fans even threatening to fast unto death, the AIFF decided to delay the merger. It is a short-term fix, and the future of small budget teams still hang in balance.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 The fourth edition of the ISL has become a five-month tournament, an increase from the previous three editions which lasted two months. The league also became bigger with the addition of two new teams – Bengaluru FC, two-time I-League champions, and the newly-formed Jamshedpur FC.
 
 The expansion of the ISL was not devoid of controversy as big clubs like Mohun Bagan and East Bengal failed to negotiate the stipulated franchise fee to join the league. The result is that the AIFF has two parallel leagues running simultaneously in the current season.
 
 The Asian Football Confederation (AFC) has suggested that the AIFF run a unified league from the next season. It is no secret that the ISL is being preferred over the I-League and is getting all the eye-balls, but further expansion is expected to happen only in 2019, which virtually shuts out other teams from joining it anytime soon. The franchise and participation fees remain a contentious issue too.
 
 An amicable solution is needed if India wants a regular national league, which can uplift the game’s stature in the country.
 
 
