BELAGAVI: The last-moment cancellation of   president Amit Shah’s programmes in   district has disappointed party leaders and workers who had been working for the tour’s success since the past few days.

 Shah was supposed to reach Belagavi late on Sunday. His office did not communicate to local leaders the cancellation of the tour. 
 
 Local leaders hoped that Shah might directly reach Belagavi from Delhi on Monday morning. Cancellation of Shah’s engagement was confirmed on Monday.
 
 District in-charge of the party, Iranna Kadadi held news conference at the party office at 9.30am and announce the cancellation of Shah’s two-day visit to Belagavi and Bagalkot districts. Kadadi said Shah’s visit has been tentatively postponed to April 12-13 April. He said that the visit was cancelled because Shah was required to be present in the Rajya Sabha on Monday. The party had issued a whip to its members as the opposition parties brought an impeachment motion against Chief Justice Deepak Mishra.
 
 However, Kadadi said that Shah, along with   CM  , will attend a programme in Kaginele on Tuesday. The party workers had carried out a lot of preparations for Shah’s visit to  , where he was supposed attend a district-level women’s convention, and Gokak, where a roadshow was planned.
 
 Shah was to visit six different places, including Kittur and Nandagad where large cutouts and banners, welcoming the BJP president were placed. Newspaper advertisements on Shah’s visit were also issued.
 
 A helipad was prepared at Shivshankar Jolle Public School, Shripewadi Road, Nippani. A 2-km road, connecting the school to Shripewadi Road, was asphalted a day ago. A huge state was erected on the Municipal High School premises where nearly 40,000 women were expected. Party leaders had arranged vehicles to bring women from different villages. According to sources, most of the vehicles were hired from neighbouring Maharashtra. Huge police bandobast was in place.
 
 Ground level preparations were also made to fetch maximum number of people to the roadshow in Gokak, the hometown of district minister Ramesh Jarkiholi. The entire responsibility was given to Athani MLA Laxman Savadi. Shah’s roadshow was planned from Sangolli Rayanna Circle to Hanuman Mandir, passing through the city market area. Huge cutouts and banners were placed for the roadshow. Sangolli Rayanna Circle and Basaveshwar Circle were decorated with flowers.
 
 Arrangements were also made at JN Medical College in Belagavi for Shah’s conversation with students and meeting with Jain community leaders in Chikkodi. 
 
 
