Ludhiana: The decision of the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) to conduct a re-examination for Class XII Economics exam and Class X Mathematics exam has evoked mixed reactions from students and their parents in the city. On Wednesday, the board had issued a circular regarding the re-examination, and said the dates and other details would be posted on the board’s website shortly within a week. However, it was as yet unclear whether the re-examination would be held only in Delhi, or in other regions too.

 In the interest of fairness to students, the board, on its website, said it decided to conduct the re-examinations. HRD minister Prakash Javadekar — who assured there would be no further leakage in the ongoing papers — said: “CBSE will put in place a stronger mechanism to ensure no further paper leaks happen. The persons or gang responsible for this would be brought to book. The leak has happened from a Delhi school.”
 
 Meanwhile, though the CBSE is yet to confirm if the re-examination will only be for Delhi or all India, parents and teachers claimed the Mathematics paper was leaked on Tuesday night in the city as well. “The Mathematics paper was not leaked only in Delhi, but other places as well. My son received the question paper on Whatsapp a night before the exam. It wouldn’t be fair on the board’s part if a fair chance was given only to students of Delhi,” said Gurkirat Singh, the father of a Class X student.
 
 Another parent said: “Social media is a thing where news gets leaked around the world in a couple of minutes. How can they even think that the paper was leaked only in Delhi. A fair chance should be given to students of every region.”
 
 Another parent said the re-examination should not be held for students of places other than Delhi. “The students of Delhi played mischief and leaked the paper. Why should students of other regions suffer for the mischief played by the student of a particular region? This would be unfair on CBSE’s part, if they make other students suffer as well,” said Manpreet Kaur, the parent of a Class XII student.
 
 Speaking to TOI, students showed their unhappiness on the news of re-examination. “We were so happy that our exams were getting over. Hearing this news of re-examination made me really unhappy. Because of a handful of students, the entire student community of Class X and XII will now have to suffer,” said Ria Thappar, a student of Class X.
 
 Another student said the paper was not leaked in all the regions but just in Delhi, and hence re-examination should be conducted only for students of Delhi. “I had no clue regarding the leakage of paper until I went to school to write my exam. There are students who studied day and night, and hearing the news of leakage made us really unhappy. We had no idea about the leaked paper. So, I think we shouldn’t be the one’s giving a re-examination,” said Ria’s classmate.
 
 
