Chennai: A mid-April Sunday is here, school exams are over and the preparations were made to spend the evening doing what they love most — watching   play. City kids will probably keep at it — albeit only on television. Their hopes of watching   & Co live at Chepauk were crushed by protesters who forced the matches out of Chennai due to the Centre’s reluctance to form the  .

 “We had planned for days, a summer vacation with get-togethers with friends on   match days and for a few matches at the stadium. Though I had gone for the match on the first day, there were others who missed it. Everyone is upset now,” said Aashrith Rajesh, who bought a new team jersey for the season. “What we don’t understand is the need to mix politics with sports. Throwing shoes and stopping a game, spoils the sportsmanship spirit. What example is this setting for our generation,” a Class VIII student. 
 
 A year of playing away due to the   in 2015, and another two-year ban over the   controversy, Tuesday’s widespread protests within and outside the Chepauk stadium during the   match had left a bitter aftertaste for followers. Aditya Banerjee, a third-year mechanical engineering student from Kolkata studying at a city college, had planned to squeeze in a few matches between his exams just to watch the action up close. “We had a harrowing experience. Blocked roads, apart, some people had handed us black badges outside the gate, which we carried in unknowingly and then police mistook us to be rioters. The spirit of sportsmanship was marred,” said Banerjee.
 
 The question that almost every 11-year-old is asking is did the chaos over a game solve the crisis that has been plaguing us for decades? “Are we going to get   now that the matches have been stopped,” asks Sujjal S, a Class VI student. 
 
 Ahead of the match on Sunday, the fans are undaunted, if not the cheers in the stadium they plan to notch up some TRPs and make their home team trend on social media. “It is good that the matches are shifted. If the city cannot respect players, it is the loss that fans here have to bear,” he said, adding, that the team will find unwavering support wherever they go.
 
 
