GURUGRAM: An engineer of a city-based private firm was arrested for sexually assaulting a Class XI student of a government school in Sohna in a moving Mahindra Bolero pickup jeep on Tuesday evening, police said. 

 The 17-year-old girl, who was returning from Sohna, and accused Emran were sharing the middle seat of the jeep with other passengers. When Emran, a resident of Bhadas village, allegedly started touching her inappropriately and tried to rest her head on her shoulders, the girl raised an alarm and asked the driver to stop the jeep. When the driver and other passengers in the jeep asked him to stop him, he tried to flee, but was caught by fellow commuters.
 
 A police team, after receiving the information, reached the spot in front of KR Mangalam University and took him into their custody. On the basis of the student’s complaint, an FIR was registered against the engineer under section 8 ( ) of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO ) Act at Sohna city police station. He was later arrested. 
 
 “The 27-year-old accused is an engineer and got married around a year ago. We produced him in court, which sent him to judicial custody, on Wednesday,” said sub-inspector Meena Devi, who is investigating the case.
 
 In another case of alleged sexual harassment and blackmailing, a 33-year-old man was booked for clicking photographs of his sister-in-law’s 17-year-old daughter. The complainant alleged that the accused clicked her daughter’s pictures while she was taking bath, and threatened to upload the photographs on social media if they didn’t pay him Rs 2 lakh. 
 
 “Raju clicked the girl’s photographs on his phone on December 15 and demanded Rs 2 lakh. When we protested, he threatened to kill all of us. We waited for many days thinking that he would delete the photos. Later, we decided to approach the police,” the complainant said. Based on the complaint, an FIR was registered against Raju under sections 11 (5) of the POCSO Act and sections 384 (extortion) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of IPC at the women’s police station.
 
 “We are verifying the facts. The accused will be arrested soon,” said inspector Kailash Yadav, SHO, women’s police station.
 
 Similarly, a 21-year-old domestic maid, who is from Jharkhand, filed a complaint at Mayur Vihar police station in Delhi, alleging that her employer molested her while she was working in his DLF-II home in September 2017. Delhi Police had filed a Zero FIR and handed over the case to Gurgaon police, which registered an FIR at DLF-II police station on Wednesday. 
 
 The complainant claimed she was hired by her employer, a resident of The Villas at Aakashneem Marg in DFL-II, through a Mayur Vihar-based placement agency. She also alleged that she quit the job after the man accused her of stealing Rs 50 and barged into her room on September 15 night. 
 
 On September 18, she lodged a complaint with the Delhi Police. An FIR was registered at the DLF-II station under sections 354A (molestation), 506 (criminal intimidation), 509 (word, gesture or act intended to insult the modesty of a woman) and 34 (common intention) of IPC.
 
 “We are verifying her allegations,” said  , additional SHO, DLF-II station. 
 
 
