CHANDIGARH: The Chandigarh district court on Tuesday framed charges against income tax officer Rakesh Jain and his wife   in a money laundering case.

 
 Sessions judge   framed charges against the duo under sections 4 (Punishment for money laundering) and 3 (offence of money laundering) of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002.
 
 Though the   had already filed a chargesheet against Rakesh Jain in a special CBI court, after looking into the aspects of money laundering, the   (ED) also a filed chargesheet in the court. The ED investigations revealed that both Rakesh and Suneet had collected Rs1,77,05,346 in cash and gold through unethical means and a chargesheet was filed under various sections of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act.
 
 An income tax officer with the Chandigarh branch, Rakesh Jain, was arrested red-handed while accepting a bribe of Rs50,000 from a local businessman in Sector 20 on February 6, 2013.
 
 Jain was arrested from his residence and CBI sleuths had recovered the bribe amount from his possession. The trap was laid on the complaint of   of Sector 20, who owns a real estate firm in Sector 22. He had been served a notice by the income tax department. On approaching the I-T office, Arora met Jain, who offered to sort out the matter against a sum of Rs 3.5 lakh. The deal was finalised for Rs2.5 lakh. Arora then approached the CBI. A trap was laid and Jain was caught red-handed.
 
 CBI had also recovered a conversation between the two which was recorded by the complainant on his cellphone.The CBI then conducted a raid at Jain’s residence.
 
 Besides gold bricks, gold coins and jewellery recovered from various bank lockers in Jain’s name, CBI slueths recovered cash to the tune of Rs 24 lakh from his residence.
 
 As per the chargesheet, the total amount of gold and cash recovered from Jain’s possession touched Rs1.5 crore. CBI sleuths had also recovered documents pertaining to investment in shares which amounted to Rs 60 lakh, all from his residence.
 
