When Pablo   died in 1973, he left more than 45,000 paintings, sculptures, ceramics, sketches and lithos, and no will. Bernard Ruiz-Picasso, 59, the grandson of Picasso and his first wife Olga Kholkhlova, is one of the few heirs to his estate. Bernard, who founded the   in the artist’s birthplace Malaga, was in Delhi recently for a talk organised by Delhi Art Gallery on India’s French connection. He spoke to 
 about his grandfather’s legacy and his influence on Indian masters

 
 When I knew him, he was already a ripe old age. In the day, he would be doing etchings and drawings,editing some illustrated books and meeting important personalities. Painting was really something very private. He retired at night and got into his studio and painted. I never saw him paint.
 
 
 
 Being an artist at the time was not a good position to be in. The name Picasso evoked the image of an artist who painted a nose where there should be a mouth and ears that are big. Two years after my grandfather’s demise, my father passed away too. So at 16, I became an heir and got involved in the inheritance project.It was only then that I realised the magnitude of the vast artistic legacy he had left behind and his incredible mass of work. It surprised experts too because nobody knew that he had created so many artworks. Slowly I discovered how special he was. 
 
 
 
 Every time I go to Madrid and stand in front of that painting, I cry. It’s getting stronger emotionally as the years go by because it represents the 20th century and the terrible reality of human nature so well. You are confronted not only with the human condition but what humans can do against one another.
 
 
 
 Back then, the artistic scene in Paris was quite small. They would have met in the same cafés or known about each other even if they were not close. Paris was full of artists coming from different places. Some Indian artists came to Paris to study at the École des Beaux-Arts and started experimenting. They were exposed to different styles such as Picasso’s which was more abstract. The other was the   style which was more conceptual. Indian artists were influenced (by Picasso) because they had to experiment and reinvent their own tradition, and Picasso did that with Cubism. He reinvented the artistic tradition by creating Cubism. A lot of artists thought that was a good way to transform their art into something new while referencing their origins.
 
 
 
 I knew my grandmother’s old trunk held a massive treasure. We started in the early 2000s, and it took more than 10 years to catalogue and rebuild the history of my Russian family. The idea was to show how my grandmother Olga started out as a Russian dancer in the famous Ballet Russes company that was exploring a new way of dancing and music in the 1910s and 1920s, and how her social life was transformed after she married Picasso. Secondly, I wanted to highlight the disaster and drama of the Russian Revolution. She received letters from her family, which was being slowly destroyed by the revolution.
 
 
 
 I think art is meant to allow people to have differences. We are a big family and some people think differently. We are fortunate to inherit a vast quantity of artworks. We live a life without any economic problems, but we also spend our time supporting the arts.
 
 
