COIMBATORE: A conductor and a driver of a private bus, who refused to return change to a passenger and also abused him using filthy language, landed in soup at Mettupalayam after the aggrieved man filed a police complaint.

 Sharing his ordeal with TOI, M  , an assistant professor at a private college, said, “I was travelling in S B transport on February 3 around noon from Periyanaickenpalayam to Thudiyalur. There were not many passengers in the bus. The fare was Rs 13 and I paid the conductor Rs 50 for two tickets. He asked for one rupee change but did not give me the remaining Rs 25 even after I demanded the money several times. Not just me, other passengers were also not getting their change. After the bus reached Mettupalayam, I again demanded the money the conductor owed me. He picked up a quarrel with me and abused me. When I also got angry, he gave me the change and left the place abusing me.”
 
 Jaikumar immediately approached police and registered a complaint. “It was not the first time that such an incident had taken place. Mettupalayam police did not register an FIR and asked me to compromise. But, I wanted to set an example as no one complains about such things and there is no forum to take such issues up,” said Jaikumar.
 
 Subsequently, Mettupalayam police inspector   registered a complaint under Section 294B (using abusive language in a public place) and Section 506 (1) criminal intimidation against bus driver   and conductor  . The RTO has also launched an inquiry into the matter.
 
 Talking about the incident, regional transport officer R Thiyagarajan said he will issue a warning and will also hold a meetings with bus drivers and conductors soon.
 
 Jaikumar, meanwhile, sent a petition to the district collector, transport authorities, regional transport officer and other officials regarding the issue. He said he will also write to the chief minister’s cell and petition the state government. “Such things should end. Most of the buses are owned by politicians and state or central government officials. Private buses do not follow rules and regulations. We will have to put an end to it,” he said.
 
 
