Cuttack: The agitation by   ( ) members on Tuesday over matriculation question paper going viral on social media incident at   office here a took a violent turn when they clashed with police and board officials. 

 Police said at least 35 ABVP agitators had gathered near the board office, demanding action against persons responsible for question paper viral incident. The board's president,   and other officials had come to meet the agitators and were holding discussion with them when suddenly the agitators turned violent, police said. 
 
 The agitators started shouting slogans and clashed with the board officials. A few policemen and security guards present at the board office tried to control the situation by closing the entry gate and driving away the agitators. 
 
 But the irate agitators clashed with policemen and security guards and barged into the board office by breaking the gate, said police. The agitators also went on the rampage and overturned furniture, broke window panes and tube-lights inside the board office. 
 
 Board officials immediately informed deputy commissioner of police(DCP) Akhileswar Singh about the incident and in no time he arrived at the spot with reinforcements. The DCP and senior cops dragged the agitators out of the board office. The cops also resorted to mild lathicharge to disperse the unruly agitators. 
 
 "Due to the board's carelessness such question paper viral incidents are happening and lakhs of students are facing problem," said S K Mohanty, an agitator.
 
 The board lodged an FIR in Manglabag police station against the ABVP workers for the ruckus they created on the board premises. Acting on the complaint, police arrested at least 21 ABVP workers.
 
 "Our men tried to pacify the agitators but they misbehaved and clashed with the police personnel following which we had to resort to mild lathicharge to control them," said DCP Singh.
 
 The board officials also had a tough time managing the situation. "We were listening to the grievances of the agitators and informed them that investigation into the question paper viral incident has already been handed over to the crime branch. But I don't know why they turned so violent suddenly. A few board officials were also injured in the scuffle," said Begum.
 
 
