BENGALURU: Proximity to an international airport, good hospitals, schools and colleges, decent roads, and 25 gram panchayats keeping the rural flavour alive --Yelahanka is a constituency with balanced growth that both   and   claim credit for.

 
  
  
 
 
 Voters, however, call it organic growth, resulting from multiple factors which would’ve happened, regardless of the parties.
 
 Traditionally a Congress stronghold, the BJP has been sitting pretty here for the last two terms, with SR Vishwanath winning convincingly. While he’s confident, BJP insiders told TOI that a section of local cadre is upset about him usurping all the power.
 
 “He scuttles our growth and wants everything for his wife and himself even when she loses — she’s lost the zilla panchayat and BBMP corporator elections,” one BJP member complained.
 
 Also, unlike the last two elections when both Congress and JD(S) fielded Vokkaliga candidates, which split the votes — more than 1.2 lakh of the total 3.7 lakh votes belong to Vokkaligas — Vishwanath is expected to see a tough fight against   of JD(S).
 
 “He’s done nothing for the constituency, and Vokkaligas want their community candidate to win. Although my party didn’t win in any of the wards, its performance in the 2015 BBMP elections shows that people want change,” Gowda said, even as local JD(S) workers are upset that he negotiated for a Congress ticket.
 
 Gowda admitted he was only having talks with the Congress, but said he has the blessings of state party president  . The Congress’ MN Gopalakrishna (a Yadava) stands a slim chance, despite the backing of OBCs, as their votes are not as high as Vokkaligas. Vishwanath says Gowda belongs to the numerically weak Kunchitiga Vokkaliga community, and that a majority of the Vokkaligas in the constituency belong to Morasu and Gangadikara sub-castes.
 
 Even if he manages to stay above water in the caste calculations, Vishwanath will be haunted by allegations of his involvement in the killing of Kadabagere Srinivas, a local leader, although he was later absolved. There are also corruption charges, which too remain unproved, but Vishwanath is not bogged down by them.
 
 “I’m not an outsider like Gowda, for people to decide based on allegations. I’ve been in active politics here for 40 years and people know me. When they walk out to vote, they’ll see the roads and other development works and decide,” he says.
 
 Gowda, however, is confident that voters won’t say “Yes Sir Vishwanath” this time around.
 
 
