PALAKKAD: The district has the largest number of   cases in the state as 41 new cases have been detected in the region till recently. As many as 10 cases were among children while seven were among migrant workers.   has three cases in one lakh population as against one in one lakh population in the state. Already, 13 such patients are under treatment in the district.

 Palakkad, with 110 leprosy patients in all, is followed by Kozhikode and Thiruvananthapuram in the list of districts with highest number of leprosy cases, said Prasanth Kumar, assistant leprosy officer, Palakkad.
 
 The detected patients include doctors, teachers, government officials, students, women and migrant workers. He said 33 cases were detected from Elappully and  . They include five tribespeople.
 
 In  , the most affected areas are Vadakkanthara and Vennakkara. He said in the special group survey among tribespeople and migrants, 13 cases were detected. In the survey conducted by Asha health group workers three cases of leprosy were detected last month.
 
 He said 18 cases were detected during an anti-leprosy campaign held in the district from January 30 to February
 
 12. The new cases have come as a shocker as the district was considered to have made enormous strides in leprosy eradication in the last two decades under the   (NLEP). The NLEP has been aiming to bring down the number of leprosy cases to one in 20 lakh population, the leprosy officer said.
 
 Regular awareness campaigns, screening camps, house visits through Asha health workers are being organized in the district to bring down leprosy cases.
 
 Skin examination camps, special screenings for migrant workers and other methods are being used to track down the cases, he said.
 
 Leprosy is a chronic infectious disease. It mainly affects the peripheral nerves and skin and occasionally the eyes. If not detected and treated, it could cause permanent disfigurement, particularly in limbs, Prasanth Kumar said.
 
 “Of all the communicable diseases, leprosy is the most dangerous for its potential to cause permanent and progressive physical disability. It is also associated with social stigma because of the disabilities it may cause in some patients,” he said. A case of leprosy is diagnosed by eliciting cardinal signs of leprosy through systematic clinical examination that includes careful interview of patient to get detailed history and skin and nerve examination, the leprosy officer added.
 
