NAGPUR: Nagpurians who continue to default on property tax, better clear dues. The Nagpur Municipal Corporation Municipal Corporation ( ) has now rolled up its sleeves to confiscate belongings including television sets, refrigerators and other movable assets from your house or commercial property to recover pending tax if you owe dues below Rs25,000.

 According to data compiled by NMC’s tax department there are around 1.92 lakh defaulters who have dues less than Rs25,000 and their outstanding tax amount comes to around Rs74.86 crore. 
 
 Till December 2017, the NMC has managed to recover Rs114.88 crore property tax, which is around 20% of its target of Rs564.44 crore in the current fiscal. With poor financial situation, the NMC seems very desperate to achieve this target.
 
 Apart from other recovery measures including attaching and auctioning properties, the civic administration has now decided to confiscate movable properties like two-wheelers, TV sets, refrigerators, furniture and other household items, confirmed assistant municipal commissioner  . 
 
 The NMC enjoys powers to confiscate movable properties like furniture under rule number 42 in Chapter 8 of Maharashtra Municipal Corporations Act. “If people fail to pay up, we will first inform the local police station before confiscating their household items in tune with the  ,” Meshram explained.
 
 He said the NMC has already issued notices to tax defaulters several times to clear the arrears. “If defaulters fail the March 31 deadline, we will confiscate assets from their homes or commercial establishments,” he added.
 
 According to him, the department has prepared a micro plan for this confiscation drive, which will be carried out from zone levels. The zone office will have to assure five confiscation drives in their respective jurisdiction.
 
 The seized items will then be auctioned publicly and the money used to settle the concerned property owner’s taxes. The NMC will confiscate the movable properties as per its valuation and the outstanding dues. 
 
 However, for those who exceeded their dues above Rs25,000, the civic body has already started auctioning their properties. According to statistics, there are around 7,906 defaulters who have individual outstanding tax of above Rs25,000 and their outstanding comes to around Rs148.93 crore.
 
 “The NMC’s decision to confiscate movable properties of defaulters is justifiable because the city has about 2,00,521 properties towards which payment of tax is pending from one to several years,” said standing committee chairman  . The failure to crack down on them has proved costly for the NMC which complains of lack of funds for the city’s development, he admitted. If executed meticulously, an estimated Rs223 crore could fill up its coffers.
 
 A special confiscation team will be formed in each zone and it will comprise one revenue inspector, two assistants, two sanitary workers and two police personnel (man and woman each). Each team will have one four-wheeler and a pickup van. 
 
 
