VILLUPURAM: A 43-year-old teacher of a government-aided school was arrested on Monday night on charges of proposing to a Class VIII girl student by presenting a rose on Valentine’s Day at   in  . His colleague, a physical education teacher, was also arrested for forcing the girl, who spurned his proposal, to reconsider her decision. 

 Both M Nirmal Premkumar, a secondary grade teacher, and his colleague S Lawrence, 31, of Melmariappanur in the district, are married and have children.
 
  said Nirmal gave a rose to a Class VIII girl student inside a classroom in front of other students on Valentine’s Day to express his love. Taken aback, the girl refused to take the rose and turned down the proposal. However, Nirmal forced her to take the flower. 
 
 After the incident, the girl stopped talking to the teacher for the rest of the day. The teacher then sought help of his colleague Lawrence to convince the girl to accept his proposal and keep the matter to herself. Lawrence attempted to convince her to accept Nirmal’s proposal by promising a better life and high standard of living. 
 
 When she refused to budge, Lawrence threatened that she might have to quit studies if she rejected the proposal or revealed the incident to anyone. However, the girl stuck to her guns.
 
 The girl kept to herself for some time, but on February 16 broke down before her parents narrating the entire incident. Enraged, her parents and relatives staged a protest in front of the school demanding immediate arrest of the two teachers.
 
 They lodged separate complaints with district education officials and the police. “The education department on Monday ordered a probe into the incident and placed secondary-grade teacher (Nirmal) and physical education teacher (Lawrence) under suspension pending inquiries,” said a district-level education official. The girl’s parents also lodged a complaint with Kallakuruchi all women police, who booked Nirmal under Sections 11 (sexual harassment) and 12 (punishment for sexual harassment) of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (Pocso) Act, 2012, and Lawrence under Section 17 (punishment for abetment) of Pocso Act. 
 
 Police produced the teacher duo before Kallakuruchi judicial magistrate who remanded them in judicial custody. 
 
 
