Amritsar: The Sikh clerics have excommunicated Harinder Singh Sikka, producer of controversial movie ‘Nanak Shah Fakir,’ from the Panth on Thursday, a day ahead of the release of the film.

 The clergy met at the Akal Takht secretariat and cautioned the Centre, the Punjab government and the owners of cinema halls to allow screening of the film at their own risk.
 
 The Sikh clerics gathered at the Akal Takht secretariat on Thursday morning to contemplate over the raging anger in the community across the globe for allegedly showing the founder of Sikhism Guru Nanak Dev and his family in human form.
 
 Later talking to TOI, Akal Takht Jathedar Giani Gurbachan Singh said the clerics had directed Sikhs across the globe to sever social and religious ties with Sikka, who was guilty of hurting the religious sentiments of the community.
 
 He said the clergy had also directed Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) to immediately send its delegation to meet Union home minister Rajnath Singh to apprise him of the Sikh religious sentiments due to the “highly objectionable movie” and ask him to impose an immediate ban on its release.
 
 The movie is scheduled to be released on Friday after the Supreme Court gave its clearance. In a warning to the Punjab and Union governments, the Jathedar said both governments would be responsible for any untoward outcome after the release of movie since Sikh religious sentiments were highly inflamed and hurt.
 
 He also warned the owners of cinema halls that they would be responsible of any harm or loss while screening the movie. While directing Sikh masses to boycott the movie, the Jathedar said the high priests had directed the Sikhs to stage peaceful protest against the film.
 
 The Jathedar also quoted the Nirankaris and Sikhs’ clash on April 13, 1978 after Akhand Kirtani Jatha and Damdami Taksal activists tried to stop the Nirankaris’ convention at Amritsar, which resulted in death of 16 persons.
 
 “Sikka is playing as a pawn in the hands of forces who are bent upon bleeding Sikhs once again and despite several advices and warnings he is adamant about the release of movie through the court orders,” said the Akal Takht Jathedar.
 
 Meanwhile, reacting on his excommunication, Sikka said, “I respect Akal Takht but this decision has been taken in an arbitrarily matter. I have written permission from the highest authority in the SGPC and all the objections to the movie’s content were cleared.”
 
 SGPC, DSGMC institutes to remain closed today
 
 Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) and Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) have decided to keep all of their institutions closed on Friday in protest against release of the controversial movie ‘Nanak Shah Fakir.’ In a release issued in Amritsar on Thursday, SGPC president Gobind Singh Longowal said the committee had filed a writ petition urging to impose a ban on release of the movie in the Supreme Court. He said the movie had evoked sharp criticism from Sikhs around the world and keeping their sentiments in view, the SGPC had decided to keep all the institutions under its management closed on Friday. He also appealed to Sikhs to show their peaceful protest against the movie by sporting black turbans and wearing black dupattas. While talking to TOI on Thursday, DSGMC president Manjit Singh GK said all their members would stage protest in front of cinema halls in their respective constituencies. The DSGMC took the decision after Akal Takht’s directives to Sikhs to boycott the film.
 
 
