Nagpur: After the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court ordered a ban on entry of private buses into the city from January 15, bus operators have fallen in line and decided to deposit Rs5,000 each with the court to show their bonafides. In the wake of a suo motu PIL registered on May 4, 2015, based on an anonymous complaint with chief justice Dr Manjulla Chellur, justice BP Dharmadhikari and justice Swapna Joshi had on December 20 directed the RTO to ensure that private bus operators do not operate their vehicles from inside the city from January 15. The matter has now been listed for further hearing on January 10. After the PIL was registered, there have been at least five high court orders but the bus operators did not appear even once. They also ignored a notice published on November 24, 2017, against 74 operators and nine government bodies and authorities. At least 250-300 private buses operate daily from the city and the unknown complainants had demanded ban on buses at Ganeshpeth Square. TOI spoke to several private bus operators, who said they did not know about the notice published in the newspaper. Last week, all bus operators had a meeting at Nag Vidarbha Chamber of Commerce (NVCC), where they agreed to deposit Rs5,000, but fight it out individually as notices are in the name of individual firms. However, they said there are certain issues to be decided by the government. “For over a decade, we have been demanding parking space and pickup points in the city. We have valid permits and pay lakhs of rupees towards tax by running sleeper class luxury buses. We are also not averse to MSRTC competing with us,” said a bus owner. Many operators said the government has failed to consider their long-pending demand of pickup points and parking space as per Section 117 of the Motor Vehicle Act (MVA), 1996. “Presently, all major bus operators have their own parking spaces,” they added. They alleged parking space meant for bus terminus and hospital was allotted to a private builder, and a three-tier banquet hall has come up in its place. “Had it been given for a bus terminus, problem of traffic congestion would have been solved,” they said. Several bus operators in the list of respondents are from cities like Mumbai and Pune, and areas in the city which are beyond 200 metres from the main bus stand. Many are package tour operators to other states. They said the anonymous complaint basically highlights chaos and criminal activities of elements hired by a section of bus operators at Jadhav Square (Ganeshpeth Bus Stand Square), with traffic cops hand-in-glove with them. These elements get good commission for driving ST passengers to travel in private buses. “What bus operators say is not completely true. There is chaos at Ashirwad Square, Bole Petrol Pump, Ganeshpeth Square and Ravi Nagar during evening hours, when these long-distance buses move out of the city. Besides, traffic problem is a regular feature at Jadhav Square. It is good that the court took note of it,” say MSRTC employees. The bus operators also pointed out that when MSRTC employees went on a strike in October, the government took their help. “That time too, we were not told about the case in high court against us. Many operators mentioned in the list operate their buses from their own premises,” they said.