BENGALURU: It’s been a year since the government made helmets compulsory for pillion riders in the city. However, parents who ferry kids without headgear have been getting away without fines or punishment. Not any more. 

 As a fresh drive to do away with poor quality helmets commences on February 1, traffic police’s hawk-eyed scrutiny will not spare riders accompanied by children without helmets. 
 
 While child rights activists and experts have urged parents to take the matter seriously, traders say not too many parents buy helmets for their children despite the 2016 rule mandating headgear for kids too.
 
 Additional commissioner of police (traffic) R   said: “Our enforcement awareness drives are under way and all rule-breakers, including children, will be under our scanner.”
 
 3 out of 4 kids ride helmetless: Survey
 
 A recent dipstick survey conducted by   claims that three out of four children in Bengaluru ride helmetless. “...Alarmingly, three out of four children have been observed riding without helmets as compared to the national average of two out of four,” said the survey, as part of which 1,118 bike riders were questioned.
 
 While the survey’s sample size may be too small for a city that has 49 lakh two wheelers and is home to 26.81 lakh citizens aged between zero and 19 years, the assessment may not be too inaccurate.
 
 Umesh Bahiti, partner, Ryder Auto Accessories, which supplies branded headgear to more than 120 retail shops in Bengaluru and controls 50% of the branded helmet market, said: “Companies didn’t manufacture helmets for children until about three years ago. But even since then, sales of such helmets are very low, although there has been an increase this year.”
 
 In 2016-17, Ryder sold 2.08 lakh helmets in Bengaluru, of which only 1,300 were meant for children, while in 2017-18 (up to January 18) the firm has sold 1.95 lakh helmets, including 3,671 for kids.
 
 2,000 units sell per day
 
 On an average, about 2,000 helmets — 50% of which are unbranded — are sold in the city every day, of which children’s headgear constitute a small percentage.
 
 Director of Child Rights Trust,  , said: “The problem is staring at us and we seem to be doing little about it. The matter has also come up for discussion in schools where we run children’s clubs, and kids themselves have argued in favour of helmets. When it comes to children below the age of 10 or 12, the onus of their safety lies on parents.”
 
 Hitendra said in case of minors caught without helmets — whether they are riding the two-wheeler or sitting pillion — vehicle owners will be held responsible for the offence.
 
 
 
  
 
