CHANDIGARH: The   administration has shown 99.99 % expenditure of the entire financial budget they had received in the last financial year 2017-2018. With these spending figures, the UT administration is all set to ask for additional funds from the Centre at the Revised Estimates (RE) stage under different segments. 

 
  
 
 
 As per records, Chandigarh administration had received Rs 4628.42 crore in the last financial year, out of which the authority had spent Rs 4627.94 crore. Out of more than 12 crucial departments, UT has utilised 100% of the funds received from the Centre in five sectors. In the remaining departments, UT administration has spent 99% of its budget. Police, transport and the urban development sectors, which include MC’s grant in aid, have shown 100% disbursement. Meanwhile, in education, forest and wildlife, food and civil supply and energy sectors 99% expenditure have been witnessed.
 
 Significantly, the proper expenditure of the received budget is being judged as a working scenario of the administration and shows how many works have been executed on the ground and the status of the works on paper. Moreover, whatever claim UT makes before the Centre, the previous expenditure will play a vital role.
 
 When the UT administration failed to make a proper expenditure during the financial year 2016-2017, the Central government had imposed a cut of around Rs 215 crore during that financial year. Later, UT started to minutely monitor the expenditure process and targets were given in this regard.
 
 “The Centre seeks reports on a timely basis regarding the proper expenditure plans for the developmental works to assess and see whether the amount is being properly utilised or not. We have already submitted a detailed report to the Union government in this regard. Now, this has given us a strong reason to request the Union   ministry to give UT a good amount during the RE (mid-year review of possible expenditure). We will strongly place our points for additional financial aid during the RE,” said an official.
 
 Meanwhile, sources revealed that UT administration is mulling over to ask for around Rs 1,000 crore at the RE stage from the Centre.
 
