Chennai: Sitting on a dawn flight from Chennai to Bengaluru, historian S Muthiah’s attention was stolen by an   couple who, armed with two popular Indian dailies, were vocalising their struggle to understand words like ‘morcha’ and ‘rail roko’, they had come across in those newspapers. 

 As he ended up in an engaging conversation on “the changes   was undergoing in the countries it was spoken” with his fellow passengers, the incident sowed in him the necessity for a book that would act as a   to make sense of Indian newspapers. The result is ‘Words in Indian English – A guide to English communication in South Asia’, which will be released on February 27 at GRT Convention Centre at 6.30pm.
 
 “When I came to India from Sri Lanka in 1968, there were all sorts of words in English newspapers here that I was not familiar with. That made me look at the concept of how to read an Indian newspaper. The American couple I met triggered this thought further,” says Muthiah. “I wanted to look at what is common in English newspapers in this part of the world,” he adds.
 
 The book takes from the fact that the English spoken in India – even by the   who once lived here – has always been unique, and how words such as ‘ayah’ (from the Portugese), or zamindar (from Mughal officialdom), have found their way into the English vocabulary here. It begins with ‘Aadhaar’ which recently took the reference as the universal identity number, and goes on to cover words such as ‘Padayatra’ – walk in procession, and ‘Patiala Peg’ – an extra-large alcoholic serving, usually four fingers.
 
 “I think there is certainly a need for guidebooks like this in different parts of the world. For instance, such a guidebook will help Indian or Chinese students going to America. When I went to America in 1946, I found the language totally different there, having been brought up in a pure British environment. Nowadays, of course there is more Americanism coming into the language, but if you go into different parts of America, you’ll find different languages being spoken,” says Muthiah.
 
 
