NAGPUR: The   (NHAI), earlier slammed for felling trees and not compensating them by judicious planting, has decided not axe over 250 big trees between Chhaoni (Sadar) and Gorewada Square on Katol Road. Now, instead of road widening, it will only be concretized.

 Over 250 trees, including a dozen 300-year-old banyan trees, were to be felled for road widening on the 4.5km stretch between Chhaoni and Gorewada Square. A flyover is under construction till Chhaoni.
 
 NHAI project director   says counting and marking of trees that needed to be felled was done recently. “The decision to fell trees was taken in June last, and the forest department was moved to evaluate the cost. Even as we were undecided, there were several representations from locals at Zingabai Takli, Gittikhadan, Fetri, and Shrikant Deshpande of   (NCA), not to fell these trees,” he said.
 
 The existing road from Chhaoni to Gorewada Square is 30-35 metres wide, and is already four-lane. However, NHAI wanted it to make it 45 metres by acquiring additional land. NHAI regional officer M   took a call and finally dropped the plan. The existing tar road will only be cemented now.
 
 “We also performed a spot survey with NCA’s Deshpande on Thursday on the 4.5km stretch, and considered the submissions by him, that when there is hardly any scope for widening why fell so many trees,” said NHAI officials.
 
 The proposed road widening was marred by huge protests on March 16, by over 350 traders and hawkers earning livelihood in the stretch. They had observed complete bandh fearing land acquisition. BJP MLA from West Nagpur Sudhakar Deshmukh had to talk to highways minister Nitin Gadkari to intervene.
 
 NHAI’s Jichkar says, apart from felling trees, protests by traders was one of the reasons for the decision to shelve road widening. “We also considered that already a 60km outer ring road is being constructed, with 25% work done. This ring road will bypass the city.”
 
 “Trees give huge ecological benefit. Not only was this protected, but NHAI managed to save at least Rs300 crore, which it would have to spend on land acquisition and other allied activities,” said Deshpande.
 
 
