HYDERABAD: Three-year old boy  , who went missing on January 23 from Jeedimetla during a carnival at  , was traced in Siddipet on Wednesday. The boy was found with his head tonsured and face covered with towel by unknown abductors.

 Balanagar zone police said the boy was left in front of a   and his abductors fled. Some women from the locality heard the boy crying and came to his rescue. When the women enquired the child about his identity and address, a shocked Uday remained mum.
 
 The women then checked Uday’s pockets and found a piece of paper with a   number written on it. On dialling the number, the call landed with Uday’s father Bixapathi, who immediately alerted Cyberabad police.
  
  
 
 A team of police reached the spot and took Uday into their custody. Cops asked Uday about his father’s name, but he was unable to answer. Uday could only recollect his sister’s name.
 
 “The unknown accused covered the boy’s face with a muffler and a towel, before leaving him in front of a locked house, believing that he/she (accused) will return in some time. The boy’s head was also tonsured to disguise his identity from the police. It appears that due to regular searches conducted by the police to find the boy and his photos and contact details being shared among the police teams, the kidnappers must have panicked and left the boy at an isolated place,” Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP), Balanagar Zone, Y Sai Sekhar told TOI.
 
 Police had formed 10 teams to trace Uday. Following this development, the police have not planned to contact members of the barber community to find leads in the case. They are in search of the barber who tonsured the boy.
 
 Uday went missing on January 23 from near Chitharam temple at Gajularamaram, when his mother Sabitha and two siblings were busy doing saree shopping after completing their darshan. After realising that Uday was missing, Sabitha went in search of him, but there was no trace of Uday.
 
 The cops are still clueless about the motive behind the   and are trying to find out how the boy was abducted and taken to Siddipet. Uday's family is from Dilsukhnagar.
 
