KOLKATA: A young tigress’s searchfor hometookher on an expedition through vast swathes of the   reaching all the way to the tip of Bay of Bengal— a journey of over 100km.

 
  
  
 
 When the tigress, captured from a human habitation, was released outside the tiger reserve with a radio collar in January last year, forest officials had no idea of its original territory. Sixother bigcats radio-collared earlier were released in their established territories so the foresters as well as the   were in unchartedterritory.
 
 ButSundari, astheforestofficials call her, turned out to be an explorer.
 
 In four months—from January 25 when she was collared and May 30 when her last location was received—Sundari moved acrossthefour islandsof Ajmalmari, Dhulibasani, Kalash andBulcherry covering a home range of 173 sqkms, which included a peek at the  , and finally returned to establish her territory over an area of 43 sqkms in the northern partof Ajmalmari.
 
 “She established territory in Ajmalmari near which she was released. But before that she travelled all the way to Bay of Bengal crossing several channels, some over 5km to 8km wide,”saidYVJhala,senior scientist and professor at Wildlife Instituteof India,Dehradun.
 
 Earlier, big cats like her were found to be reluctant to cross channelswider than 400 metres, thoughJhala said a tiger can cross wider channels during exploration asshown by thetigress.
 
 But Sundari — who was the firstcollaredbigcat in theSouth 24Parganasforestdivision tobe released outside the reserve — surprisedtheWIIscientists and the foresters who co-ordinated for almost a year to collate data from thecollar thatgaveher last location in Maylast year.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 Jhala added: “She crossed a channel more than 5km wide to reach the last chunk of islands towards Bay of Bengal, where she was observed preying on wild pigs. Satellite data showed her movement till the last edges of those islands. She then soon returned to the northern island where she was initially released.”
 
 The big cat’s daily average movement, Jhala said, ranged between a few 100metres to 20km. The scientist, however, refused to divulge the big cat’s exact location where she established her territory.
 
 So, what does it indicate about the health of Sunderbans. “It’s difficult to assess as she was exploring areas for establishing her home range. Once she settled down, her home range was about 3-4 times of tigresses in central India’s Kanha, reflecting poorer resources in the Sunderbans compared to Kanha,” added Jhala.
 
 Former chief wildlife warden  , under whose tenure the tigress was collared, said that parts of South 24 Parganas forest division have recorded higher tiger densities compared to the reserve area.
 
 “That’s why we decided to collar a tiger in this region and track its movement. If she moves further towards north from Ajmalamari she will reach the forest patches of Jharkhali, which the big cats often use as a corridor to cross over to Sajnekhali Wildlife Sanctuary inside the tiger reserve area. This also probably decodes the reason behind higher tiger straying in villages near Jharkhali,” Vyas added.
 
 An earlier study on collared Sunderbans tigers had revealed that it hunts mostly in the morning, between 5am and 10am, a trait borne out by the fact that the majority of attacks on humans in the mangroves have been recorded between 7 am and noon. Spanning eight years between 2008 and 2016, the study showed the habitat of the Sunderbans tiger is much better than both the Russian Far East and tropical rain forests of south-east Asia.
 
 
