GURUGRAM: The district administration has sounded an alert and asked people to remain careful on Tuesday, with heavy gusts of winds expected to blow across the state.

 The acting deputy commissioner and Huda administrator, Chandra Shekhar Khare, held a meeting in Gurugram with senior district officials, asking them to be alert about the possibility of rains and  , whose   was sounded by the weather department. Several meetings were held in the day to discuss preparedness of government departments.
 
 Among departments, officials of discom DHBVN expect to be on their toes. Regional Weather Forecasting Centre (RWFC) officials earlier told TOI they have revised the wind scenario, with fresh forecast predicting winds at 70 kmph, which is ranked at Force 8 on the Beaufort scale, indicating it will make “walking difficult”. RWFC officials said the high winds are expected during the afternoon. 
 
 Officials also said winds will occur only on May 8, not beyond that. DHBVN has said such winds might knock down 11 kV lines, but they have dispatched rapid action teams to ensure matters are quickly remedied. They also said control room will stay active for 24 hours to attend to complaints of power breakdowns.
 
 At the meeting, the health department was asked to stock up on medicines and patient services in case of exigencies. They were asked to stock on fuel for generators, extra mattresses, raw food, dressing material, ambulances, drugs and to be ready with a triage protocol, among other measures.
 
 MCG has also formed 35 teams, comprising 500 members in total, in cases of any emergency situations.
 
 Huda officers were asked to ensure that the exit route for storm water drains were clear in order to minimise flooding, and were asked to keep pump sets ready. Forest department officials were also briefed to keep manpower ready in cases of reports of trees falling and obstructing routes.
 
 Power officials were also advised to keep ground forces ready in case electric poles fall, and to ensure power supply was not disrupted. Residents were also asked to keep to their houses and to remove power plugs of electronic devices before going off to sleep. The administration also asked people to not keep plant pots on ledges of their houses, as these could injure people walking close to them. 
 
 The following helpline numbers: 0124-2321144/2325500 /2320508/2303333/2322877, were also issued for people in distress.
 
 
