BHOPAL: Manjhi, which appears to be a generic name for castes who traditionally carry out jobs such as fishing, boating and ferrying, has tribal status in Madhya Pradesh, but ironically doubts over their status have been raised from time to time. Incidentally, the general administration department (GAD) order of January 1, has virtually taken away tribal status from persons belonging to sub-castes such as dheemar, kevat, mallah, koli and palewal.

 Those who have taken up the cause of manjhis refer to books of English anthropologist   on Indian tribes in 1885, RB Raphel & Hiralal’s book on tribes of Central India in 1916 and J Kicks book of 1885, which specifies dheemar, bhoi, kanhar, kevat, mullah and such castes as part of manjhi and majhua tribes. Their contention is that the successive state governments have allowed the controversy over tribal status of these castes to linger for long.
 
 “When tribes of India were notified in 1950, these castes were there under a broad manjhi category. Let alone what the British anthropologists have written, nishad and manjhis have found reference even in epics such as Ramayana and Mahabharata. It was some sort of a survey carried out by Tribal Research Institute ( ) in 2006 which led to the confusion over their tribal status in MP. Otherwise, in every other states be it West Bengal, Bihar, Assam, Jammu & Kashmir and Maharashtra, they are treated as tribals or Scheduled Castes and nowhere as OBCs but in MP”, said retired IAS officer VK Batham, who himself belongs to this community.
 
 Commenting on the January 1 GAD order, Batham said, “It is grossly unjustified. How can the state government decide an arbitrary date for withdrawal of tribal status to a particular community”?
 
  MLA Moti Kashyap, who also belongs to one of the sub-castes of the manjhi community and was disqualified by the high court in 2013 for not being a tribal, said it was not TRI’s survey of 2006 but complaints made to the state-level screening committee over tribal certificates being used by manjhi sub-castes, which in course of time became a controversy. “Questions on tribal status of the manjhi sub-castes were being made since the 1980s”, Kashyap said.
 
 Successive state governments on their part have been trying to retain manjhi sub-castes among tribals but none could put a full stop to the controversy. A committee formed by former chief minister Arjun Singh in 1983, followed by a committee headed by   during Digvijaya Singh’s regime and then a committee headed by minister for school education Vijay Shah in 2008 recommended tribal status to manjhi sub-castes.
 
 A ministerial sub-committee has again been constituted under Shah’s chairmanship to revisit the issue but state government is not in a position to give a categorical reply to the   on the status of these castes, where a special leave petition (SLP) moved by some members of the manjhi community is being heard. According to one of the petitioners,  , the state government did not answer the question of the court in the past five hearings and now they have issued this order, which could hamper their case a great deal.
 
 The ex-officio director of TRI, S N Mishra, when contacted to find out why TRI has opposed tribal status to manjhi sub-castes before committees appointed by the state government on several occasions said, “The matter is being examined by a cabinet sub-committee and therefore, my comment in this regard is not really warranted.”
 
 
