MUMBAI: Nine more civic   were   on Monday for aiding and abetting the desilting   after Mumbai police’s economic offences wing filed a 12,000-page supplementary chargesheet before 47th metropolitan magistrate A P Kulkarni.

 The accused contractors, who were tasked to remove silt from nullahs before monsoon, not only submitted inflated fake bills/receipts but also brazenly gave numbers of two-wheelers and autorickshaws as vehicles in which the silt was ferried. 
  
 
 After massive flooding on June 19, 2015, the   had filed an FIR against contractors for shoddy work and suspended 14 civic officials for colluding with them.
 
  In 2016, after the initial probe, the police had arrested five civic contractors.
 
 With Monday’s arrests, the number of detentions in the case touched 14. “Today, we have submitted a supplementary chargesheet in the case and arrested nine contractors. Our probe will continue further,” said investigating officer Sachin Rane.
 
 The nine contractors arrested on Monday and released on bail are Narendra Shah, Hamir Choudhary, Ritesh Jain, Ravi Chavan, Indra Mulchand Madhavi, Rajesh Shah, Sanjay Hirani, Hitesh Purohit, Sandeep Mehta and Taherali Madraswala. Earlier, Raju Bijlani, Arvind Jain, Krishna Purohit, Pukhraj Jain and Dinesh Shah had been arrested.
 
 In September 2015, the BMC had suspended 14 civic officials after pinning responsibility on them for the massive floods that Mumbai experienced on June 19, 2015. The civic body also filed an FIR against contractors suspected to have colluded with the officials in carrying out inadequate and shoddy pre-monsoon   work.
 
 After the inquiry, the BMC filed a complaint at the Azad Maidan police station under sections 420 (cheating) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC. The case was transferred to the EOW for further investigation and it added sections 465 (forgery), 467 (forgery of valuable security), 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating) and 471 (using a forged document as genuine) in the case.
 
 In the chargesheet, the police have recorded the statements of more than 150 witnesses, including weigh bridge owners, transporters and labourers, and have collected incriminating documents like fake transport bills, weigh bridge receipts and log sheets of Vehicle Tracking System (VTS).
 
 The investigators said the accused contractors, in connivance with various weigh bridge operators and Plexitech Pvt Ltd, which installed the VTS, forged documents, manipulated records and produced fake bills for desilting work which was never undertaken.
 
 “Contractors in league with weigh bridge operators submitted forged receipts certifying fictitious loads for vehicles used to ferry silt. During the probe, many of these vehicles were found to be two-wheelers, autorickshaws. Many vehicles were shown as ferrying silt at two different locations at the same time, and the accused took receipts of larger volumes (of silt) removed than the actual capacity of the vehicles,” said Rane.
 
 
