KARNATAKA: On the eve of assembly polls, income tax (I-T) officials raided the houses of two Congress MLAs, an associate of minister Vinay Kulkarni and intercepted vehicles belonging to BJP members which were allegedly transporting money.

 
 I-T officials from Goa and Mumbai raided the house of   in Dharwad, a close aide of Kulkarni and his campaign manager. Kekere was picked up by a team of five I-T officials from a hotel 
  afternoon and taken to various places before reaching his house in Saptapur. Officials searched his house and questioned him till 
  afternoon. He has been asked to appear before them 
 , sources said.
 
 Kekere told the media nothing incriminating had been found during the search in his house. He alleged the raid was as the behest of BJP leaders to restrain him from campaigning for Kulkarni who is contesting from Dharwad.
 
 Sources said I-T officials also raided the houses of three other aides of Kulkarni 
  night.
 
 In Bidar, I-T, excise and election departments raided the residence of Bidar South candidate   in Rampur Colony. Some liquor bottles and one lakh pamphlets were found.
 
 In   the office of Mangaladas Kamat, a businessman in Avarsa near Ankola and an aide of Karwar MLA and Congress candidate  , was raided. The officers arrived at Avarsa around 
  and searched the house and office of Kamat before they visited Satish Sail’s house in Sadashivagad.
 
 Election flying squads have seized about Rs 28.5 lakh cash in Kudligi in Ballari and Muddebihal in Vijayapura. districts. In Ballari, the flying squad seized Rs 24.5 lakh from a Scorpio at KHB Colony in Kudligi. The driver, Mrutyunjay, 38, was allegedly distributing money to voters and has been detained. Sources said the Scorpio belongs to BJP’s Kodihalli Bheemanna.
 
 In Vijayapura, nearly Rs 4 lakh was seized from two youths in Marutinagar.
 
 A flying squad seized Rs 18.9 lakh in Sarvagnanagar 
  and officials were in the process of filing a criminal case with the Banaswadi police. The returning officer told TOI: “Our squad seized the money in Sarvagnanagar constituency and the information is that it belongs to BJP. We are filing a complaint. More details will be available later.”
 
