CHANDIGARH: The Chandigarh district court on Friday directed the chairman of   and its regional office along with the Carmel Convent School authorities to add surname after the name of a student and also correct her parents’ names in her official records. The student of Carmel Convent School, Sukhmani Virk, a resident of Sector 21, had moved the Chandigarh district court to add surname to her name and change her parents’ name in her matriculation as well as in +2 certificates according to those in her Aadhaar card and passport so that she does not have to face any problem in future. The court of civil judge Gaurav Dutta directed the concerned authorities to make the corrections. 

 It was stated in the petition that the petitioner wanted to add ‘Virk’ as her surname after her name in her certificates issued by CBSE. Plaintiff had notified her change of name to general public by publication in newspaper dated 08.02.2017. It was also argued that her name was also mentioned as Sukhmani Virk, both in Aadhaar card as well as in her passport. She also wanted to correct the spellings of the names of both her parents which did not match with the spellings in her passport and Aadhaar card. Plaintiff approached the CBSE office in Delhi and   along with the school authorities to do so but to no avail. Thereby she moved the court for the same.
 
 It was stated by the petitioner that there should be a consistency in the records of the plaintiff because all her records show her to be carrying the surname of ‘Virk’ and her father having the spelling of his name as Akashdeep Singh Virk, and her mother, Param Parveen Kaur Virk. She would suffer a lot in future if there remains a difference in the names in different records. It was pleaded that incorrect record be corrected by the court and future of the plaintiff be saved from further problems.
 
 During arguments, it was stated by CBSE and the school authorities that the petition is not maintainable and she has no cause of action to file the present suit. It was also argued that even the court has no territorial jurisdiction to pass any order on this. The court after hearing the arguments directed the chairman of CBSE and its regional office in Panchkula along with Carmel Convent School to make the corrections. The court order reads, “The name of the plaintiff is Sukhmani Virk, daughter of Akashdeep Singh Virk. Defendants are directed to make correction in the name of the plaintiff by adding the surname Virk after her name Sukhmani in her matriculation certificate and +2 certificate and names of the plaintiff’s father and mother be corrected in their official records.”
 
 
