KOLKATA: Sridevi’s sudden demise at 54 has come as a shock to the nation and, for Tollywood, it has snapped a connection that had never followed a screenplay. The star had established a link with the City of Joy, be it through flaunting our very own Sabyasachi’s saris on and off screen or making an appearance in Sourav Ganguly’s ‘Dadagiri’ to promote her film.

 
 
 However, for many, it was a matter of the heart that associated Sridevi with Kolkata. Since the 1980s, rumour mills in Tollywood had spoken in hushed tones about   Chakraborty’s link with Sridevi. The stars had never gone on record about their relationship, yet, the gossip was unstoppable. During the 1980s, there were rumours that Mithun had married Sridevi. But there was never any official confirmation. It remained a subject people would discuss over tea, while Mithun continued staying happily married to Yogita Bali. In 1996, Sridevi tied the knot with   and soon welcomed their first daughter.
 
 
 
 
 In 2012, Boney Kapoor became a co-owner of Bengal Tigers — a team in the Celebrity Cricket League — with Sridevi and  . The diva had come down for the inauguration ceremony at the Grand Hotel in Kolkata. Thereafter, every time there was a Bengal Tigers match, Sridevi was at the stands.
 
 It was but natural for the members of the Bengal Tigers to be in mourning on Sunday. Jisshu Sengupta, the former captain of Bengal Tigers, said: “‘Mr India’ was the first Sridevi film that I watched and became a huge fan of hers. Apart from Kajol and Madhuri Dixit, there is no one till date who can match her level of dance performances and expressions. I have been in complete awe of her.”
 
 The day he first met her at the stadium is still fresh in his mind. “Though there was the pressure of a match, I was very excited. We exchanged pleasantries and she watched the match. When I heard about her demise, it felt like Indian cinema has lost a legend,” Sengupta said.
 
 Tollywood actor Sayantika was chosen as the brand ambassador of Bengal Tigers and she met Sridevi several times. “I am a dancer and have been inspired by Sridevi’s dance moves and expressions. But she never flaunted her star status. Rather, what struck me was her humility. Even after her fabulous comeback with ‘English-Vinglish’, she would still come to the stadium. Soft-spoken, she maintained a dignified presence. Boney-ji knew every player by name and she, too, was equally encouraging,” Sayantika said.
 
 What she remembers most, however, was the chemistry that the couple shared. “We are used to teenage love stories. Here was a senior couple — with grown-up daughters — who were so much in love. Even if they didn’t stand close to each other, we could understand they were inseparable,” Sayantika said.
 
