TIRUNELVELI: A Tirunelveli court on Friday awarded three years imprisonment to a 72-year-old British national who was found guilty of repeated sexual abuse of a 15-year-old boy under the care of his NGO seven years ago. The convict,  , was a former director of   and Grail Trust, an NGO working with children through an outreach programme at   in Tirunelveli district. 

 Valliyoor judicial magistrate M Senthil Kumar convicted the accused under Sections 377 (attempt to commit unnatural sexual intercourse) read with 511 and 342 (punishment for wrongful confinement) of the IPC and Section 23 of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015. 
 
 Advocate  , legal head of Justice and Care, an organisation working on anti-human trafficking and sexual exploitation which filed the complaint after coming to know of the sexual abuse, told TOI that the case was challenging from the start. They had received information on the abuse of the boy and investigated it through local sources as well as   before lodging a formal complaint. The police rescued the boy and other children from Grail Trust in a raid on August 16, 2011 and filed a case against the British national on August 18. However the trial commenced only in May 2017. One of the reasons behind the delay was the accused being from a faraway nation.
 
  Robinson returned to UK and was back in India only after a non-bailable warrant and red corner notice were issued against him by the court under the Extradition Act, 1962. “Jonathan had abused the boy at the home run by the NGO in Tirunelveli and also taken him to Chennai, New Delhi and Shimla, where he subjected him to sexual abuse for about a year,” Adrian said and added that 33 witnesses had testified in the case.
 
 He said that their NGO would fight the possible appeal of the convict in the Madras high court or in other high courts. “We will move the British High Commission to include Jonathan Robinson in the national sex offenders’ register maintained in the UK. This will restrict his movement in that country,”he said. Meanwhile, the victim who was psychologically disturbed in the early days has since overcome the hurdles and is pursuing an engineering degree. “Had the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, 2012, been in effect, the conviction would have been stronger in this case,” Adrian said.
 
 
