CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu's Dravidian majors, DMK and AIADMK, have spent 40% of the total expenditure of all regional parties in the country put together for the period 2016-17. Being an assembly election year in Tamil Nadu (May 2016), the two parties spent more than their income and have shown losses in their accounts submitted to the  .

 
 While the DMK showed a loss of ?81.88 crore, its counterpart showed ?37.89 crore in losses. Across the country, the   leads the regional parties in income and expenditure. Accounts have been collated by the advocacy body   Reforms. While the SP was prompt in submitting its accounts to the Election Commission, the AIADMK and DMK delayed submitting audited accounts for the year by 47 and 35 days respectively.
 
 The DMK has shown earnings of ?3.78 crore as income that year while the AIADMK showed ?48.88 crore as revenue. The AIADMK’s income was higher than its arch rival in 2016-17 as the party had announced holding of local body elections and named the candidates. “We started collecting application fee from prospective candidates. We collected ?34.68 crore towards this. The rest of the revenue came from usual sources like interest on deposits, membership and subscription,” said a senior AIADMK leader.
 
 The DMK showed the usual sources of income like interest on deposit and contributions from various party wings. “We did not announce any candidate for the local body elections as soon as the government announced the dates. That year, we had contributions worth ?22 lakh by lawyer’s and women’s wings of the party. The rest was from interest on deposit and membership fees,” said a DMK leader. The party has its main income from interest on deposit through which it has received ?3.05 crore.
 
 On the expenditure side, the AIADMK has spent the maximum on elections. The party has shown that it spent ?64.78 crore on assembly elections followed by family benevolent and medical relief payments made to party cadres. On this account, the party has spent ?18.29 crore. The DMK, on the other hand, showed deficit in specific accounts as the main expenditure followed by depreciation of assets and party development expenses.
 
 Other regional parties like the   and PMK have also submitted expenses. The DMDK has shown a loss of ?4.01 crore, with ?2.99 crore towards promotional programmes, including advertisements, and more than ?1 crore towards elections expenses. The PMK’s main expense was on ‘administration’ for which it spent ?3.68 crore.
 
 
