RAMPUR: After a notice from the  , hundreds of   here are now afraid of losing their houses, some of which have been standing for decades. According to officials, the land on which the colony of 127 houses was constructed was owned by one Shauqat Ali Khan who was arrested and jailed for smuggling in 1976 and his property was attached by the state government. However, his property was then sold off to a private party, and the colony came up. Four decades later, with officialdom belatedly waking up to the status of the land, the fate of the colony is unclear.
 
  Khan’s property was attached under the Conservation of   and Prevention of Smuggling Activities Act in 1976.
  
  Rampur sadar tehsildar Abid Hussain told TOI, “Khan’s property, which was attached by the government after his arrest, was somehow purchased by one Kailash Chandra Agrawal and sold to others by 1978, after which these houses came up. Now officials have been pasting eviction notices on the houses, and the Centre had been informed of this. We have also issued notices to 17 other residents of the locality of Bazaria Himmat Khan, which also belonged to Khan.”
  
  “Revenue officials have also summoned Agrawal to ask from who and how he could purchase the already attached property. Now under the revenue records, the names of those who had purchased the property have been removed and it is mentioned that the properties are attached by the finance ministry,” Hussain added. Administrative officials have been unable to locate Khan or his relatives.
  
  The matter had emerged after the Union finance ministry served notice to the local administrative and revenue officials to hand over the property attached from Khan. Over the years, the Centre had sent 35 notices to the local authorities in this matter, but no action had been taken by officials here since then.
  
  This time, the local administration has acted, and given 15 days’ time to residents of the colony to vacate their houses along Aghapur road. Residents protested against the eviction notices and demanded the intervention of the Centre. They also met with Rampur Lok Sabha MP Nepal Singh at the circuit house and sought his support.
  
  District magistrate Shiv Shahay Awasthi said, “Residents should not be worried and should not think of affecting law and order. They should wait and allow officials to do their duty. I have called a meeting of officials to discuss the matter. The Union ministry will also be informed of the circumstances and the current situation of the attached property.”
