The   Challenge that recently happened in   saw four participants from India, and one of them was 41-year-old Anshul Agrawal from Ghaziabad. Anshul, who has his own start-up, makes sure that his work doesn’t come in the way of his passion for  , and has a disciplined workout routine despite a packed schedule. “I started running around four years ago and participated in my first half-marathon in 2014 and after a few months, I attempted a couple of more half and full marathons, before taking up cycling. I started with leisure   by travelling from one city to another. I applied for the   last year and started learning swimming as it requires a 4km swim,” says Anshul, who completed Ironman   last year.

  
  
 
 
 Talking about the challenges he faced while practicing for the challenge, Anshul says, “I am very new to swimming, so that was the toughest part. After completing Ironman, I decided to give Ultraman a try. The Ironman challenge helped me overcome my fear of open-water swim. I never swam for more than 3.8km, so swimming was a big challenge. A lot of people told me not to apply. I had just four months to prepare for the Australia event, but I told myself, ‘Let’s give it a try’, and just went with my gut feeling.” 
 He adds, “In mid-February, I started training at Talkatora Stadium. I divided my week into four days of heavy swimming, one day of cycling and two days of running. I tried to find coaches, but they were all for beginners. So I would watch videos on YouTube and trained myself in swimming. Finally, I could complete 10km of swimming in four hours. For someone who had become a trained swimmer by watching online videos, it was a big boost for my morale. I used to run two full marathons every month during my prep time. Every weekend, I would participate in either a   or a brevet. I also took part in an ultra-run of 74km from Dehradun to Dhanaulti. The idea was to run short distances of my own. I normally tried to participate in one event or the other.”
 
  
  As Anshul is new to swimming, it was the toughest part for him
 
 
 
 
 Anshul had a disciplined diet that helped him stay focused on his goal. “Your diet makes a lot of difference whenever you are participating in such competitions. My day began with having dry-fruits – almonds, figs and dates. After that, I had sprouts like moong, kala chana and soyabean. Steamed veggies like broccoli and beetroot were also a part of my diet, apart from coconut and lime water. The idea was to have 10 small portions between waking up and 1pm. After that, I had my usual lunch.”
 
  
  
 
 
 Biking is one of the rounds in Ultraman, and getting used to the triathlon bike required a lot of practice, says Anshul. “A triathlon bike has aerobars, so one has to ride it differently, and that requires a lot of practice. I used to go to the Noida Expressway regularly to practice riding a triathlon bike.”
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 Anshul is trying his luck in millennium run for sub-3 full marathons (running a marathon under three hours) and go for the La Ultra Run (333 kms) in Ladakh . “No Indian has ever been able to complete the 333km run in Ladakh and I want to be the first Indian to do that. This year, I will go for the sub-3 full marathons, and next year for the La Ultra run,” he says.
 
  
  
 -Priyanka Narula
