KOCHI: It’s true that the   is changing in the digital age but that doesn’t deter college and university professors in the city from collecting the relevant information they need from the countless number of books stored in the libraries in their institutions.

  Yohanan, a librarian at Maharaja’s College said that professors at the college make use of the libraries in a productive and efficient manner. “Professors from each department make use of the information available in our library,which has a collection of more than one lakh books. Around 10 – 15 professors regularly make it a point to visit the library and jot down the relevant information. In addition to that each department in our college has separate libraries which are also well – maintained and used by the faculty and students alike,” said Sherin.
 
 “With the advent of digital age, information can be accessed online. There is an increasing demand for accessing journals via online. However, for subjects that require deep research, professors make use of contents both online and offline. Libraries act as a bridge between the information-rich and information-poor. They need reinforcing not dismantling,” she said. Meanwhile some professors at the college did admit that due to the excessive workload, they are not able to spend quality time in the libraries and as a result they rely on the information available online (credible sources) especially ebooks and online journals.
 
 CBeena, librarian at Cochin University of Science and Technology (Cusat), said that faculty at the college spend a good amount of time in the library. “It is completely wrong to assume that because of the digital revolution people only look at online to access information,” she said.
 
 “Our professors and students are more into research – oriented books and methodologies so they cannot completely rely on online content. For accessing journals, they do use online but that doesn’t mean no one make use of the books available in libraries," said Beena.
 
 
