CHENNAI: People attempting to register their properties   had a harrowing time on Tuesday when the new facility came into effect as the process was marred by teething problems. Anxious applicants flooded the helpdesk with frantic calls and thronged sub-registrar offices demanding that manual registration of documents be allowed. 

 A developer in the city said he was unable to upload the property documents online despite making repeated attempts. “We were trying to upload two documents on the upgraded portal of the registration department for about five hours since the morning. However, the server has been slow and redirects us to the homepage,” he said.
 
 Chief minister   had on Monday inaugurated the upgraded website of the registration department at https://tnreginet.gov.in with an information technology-enabled service, STAR 2.0 (Simplified and Transparent Administration of Registration) to facilitate speedy registrations. The online process eliminates the need for buyers or sellers to be physically present while presenting the draft documents of the property to be registered. The new system functions on the lines of application for new passports, generating the date and time slot for registering property documents.
 
 Officials said the helpdesk was opened to guide people facing problems with registering the draft documents online. “We received more than 2,200 calls from across   over various issues with regard to registration of online property documents. The server also shut down for an hour between 12 noon and 1pm,” a registration official told  . 
 
 “We received reports of a commotion at sub-registrar offices at   town and Madurai as people could not register their documents on Tuesday and demanded that we continue with the conventional method of manual registrations,” the official added.
 
 Between 2,000 and 3,000 property documents are usually registered on Tuesdays at about 575 sub-registrar offices across the state. “We record an income of approximately Rs 10 crore on Tuesdays, which is a lean day. Though this would have reduced further owing to the glitches, it would be compensated by the registrations recorded in the coming days,” the registration official added.
 
 About 20 lakh land deeds are registered every year on average, generating an annual revenue of about Rs 8,500 crore for the state government.
 
 
