BHOPAL: If a person at the wheel going at speed is not aware of the geography of Lal Ghati, a road that leads to  , chances are it can be pretty risky. A 10 feet open pit awaits the unfamiliar. Without any stop sign, poorly lit intersection is one of the many badly managed construction spots.

 
 Going by the civic body data, some 89 major construction works in varying stage continue. In public sight, these projects range from laying of cables for smart city project, drains, sewage and water pipelines. Fresh budget outlay has rejuvenated the civic body to allocate new and revive incomplete projects essential for city infrastructure.
 
 Varied estimates indicate 40 km length of roads are currently dug up or under repair. Only recently,   had issued fresh directive to deposit 100% of repair amount ahead of permission for any construction. Road cutting work to lay underground cables is causing inconvenience to people and commuters. Civic body officials said repair of all roads after work is not satisfactory. That could take weeks as many contractors are demanding clearance of their dues.
 
 Little over a month ahead of the monsoon, state capital roads pose danger to vehicle owners. “Much of the road near Malviya Nagar was laid two weeks back. On Sunday, a private contractor came and started digging. There is no intimation. If the same task was started two week ago, the newly laid road crossing would not have dug up,” said Sunil Singh, a resident.
 
 The only thing that prevents vehicles from getting stuck in construction site on a busy curve is a white plastic rope. Other contractors are less mindful of public safety. A resident of Kolar, who recently met with an accident, filed an FIR against the BMC. The elderly retired man alleged that private contractor left the pit open, leading to the accident and injuries.
 
 Lal Ghati: The work undertaken by the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) is a part of Rs 450 crore project to decongest the intersection and provide a swift connect to the international airport. This current picture is of the digging along the BRTS that connects to Bairagarh. If speeding vehicle goes uninterrupted it may lead to a life-threatening situation.
 
 Bittan Market : Digging of road and pavements was completed a few days back. However, patchwork has been shoddy and portions of the road are expected to become potholes with onset of monsoon.
 
 Subash Nagar : Railway Crossing to Stud Farm is one of the busiest crossings in the city. In the backdrop of ongoing construction, filling up for minor work has been overlooked. Given fast movement of traffic when the railway shutter opens, it is highly risky because of poor patchwork.
 
 Answer lies in horizontal drilling technology: Trenching permission requires private contractor to follow some 30+ guidelines. If not followed and found guilty of laying cable ducts or pipes exposed, contractor can be penalised. Moreover, state capital lacks coordination between agencies like BMC, PWD, CPA and others including telecom companies.
 
 In a bid to check gradual deterioration of roads, other civic bodies in the country have insisted on adopting Horizontal Drilling Technology (HDT). In state capital, the BMC has yes to adopt the technology. Simply put, it does no harm to the surface. For laying cable or sewage network, entire road stretch need not dug. HDT uses drill bores on the surface and pass ducts through them, saving on open-surface digging and physical stress to a road.
 
 
 
 
 
 
