INDORE: Around mid-March last year,   Captain   wanted to introspect. ‘Why am I playing; what are my goals and how can I achieve them?’ The 32-year-old wasn’t part of the India ‘A’ team any more and the 2016-17   season was just about ‘average’ by his own standards.

 “I wanted to spend some time alone to realise what I wanted to achieve and how I can do it,” said Faiz after Vidarbha scripted an amazing fairytale maiden title defeating Delhi in the Ranji Trophy final in Indore on Monday. The five-day match ended a day earlier.
 
 Faiz has been the backbone of Vidarbha batting right from his debut game in 2003 against Jammu & Kashmir on a seaming track where he top-scored with 151. After playing for Vidarbha for six years, he shifted to the Railways. Faiz returned to Vidarbha in the 2012-13 season and has been prolific since then.
 
 Last year’s Ranji Trophy season didn’t match up to his own standards even though he was the highest run-getter for Vidarbha. He was often getting out in the 90s. Faiz was also disappointed that Vidarbha couldn’t make the knockout rounds which would have given him more matches to showcase his talent.
 
 After Vidarbha lost the   quarterfinal against Jharkhand in mid-March, Faiz took a short break and went to play club cricket in England. Since Faiz wasn’t part of any IPL team, he wanted to keep himself match-fit.
 
 Ainsdale Cricket Club provided him that opportunity. They signed him for the Liverpool and District Cricket competition. “When I play in England, I get to fine-tune my game. When you are playing for a long period, minor mistakes creep into your batting which you don’t realize playing on flat tracks. The conditions there are difficult, especially for openers. The ball swings and seams throughout the day and if your technique isn’t tight, you can’t survive, let alone score,” said Faiz.
 
 Expectations from club professionals are high. “They expect you to deliver in every game. I wanted to get used to that kind of pressure,” said Fazal, adding, “there’s no substitution to match practice”.
 
 Faiz’s wife Tarana, who has seen him right from his junior days, says, “He has never taken his cricket lightly. It’s his life. He generally keeps his disappointments with himself,” she told TOI on Monday.
 
 Tarana spent two months with Faiz during his Ainsdale Club stint. “Our life there revolved around his routine. He would go to the gym, spend hours at the nets and also started following a strict diet. I had to cook everything in olive oil. He feels lighter now,” she said.
 
 Father Yakoob, who was his first coach, feels Faiz is at his “fittest”. “He is moving fast on the field. He has that extra second to play shots this year. With this technique, he has added more shots this year. I haven’t seen Faiz cut, pull and drive better than this,” he said.
 
 Faiz was appointed Vidarbha captain across all formats in 2009 but couldn’t deliver with the bat. “He was disappointed with himself. Faiz knew if Vidarbha had to win, he has to make a big contribution. He did exactly that this season. His daughter Rozina being with him in Indore helped him relax,” said Yakoob.
 
