Guntur: Engineering consultancy firms are on cloud nine as Andhra Pradesh has decided to ready all detailed project reports (DPRs) for critical infrastructure investment plan (CIIP) in urban local bodies through private agencies. 

 Taking the poor staff strength and skills of municipal engineering officials, the government has decided to go with the expert agencies in private sector to make perfect assessments. The private agencies, which have been waiting in the wings for several months after the municipal administration department readied the blueprint, landed in Amaravati after the chief minister gave a green signal to the CIIP plan last week.
 
 The state government wants to provide complete infrastructure, including drinking water, roads, drains, underground drainage, and other facilities by spending a massive amount of Rs 11,000 crore under CIIP in all the 110 municipal towns and corporation cities. The CM directed the municipal administration department to complete all the works by March 2019.
 
 However, the decision of the government to get the DPRs ready for all the works has, however, raised a new controversy. The government will have to pay nearly Rs   to private agencies.
 
 Retired engineering officials wonder as to why a poor state like AP should spend such a huge amount only for readying the DPRs through private agencies. Although, it might not be wrong to take expert advice with regard to critical works such as laying new drinking water pipelines, that require usage of technology and manpower, former officials are objecting to the decision of spending monies even to ready DPRs to construct drains, roads and drinking water reservoirs. 
 
 Retired engineer P Seetharamaiah, said: “Many towns are struggling with poor finances, and there is no point in doling out massive amounts to private agencies. This money could be spent on improvement of roads and drains in these towns, which existing officials can manage without any trouble.” 
 
 He said there is no need to for expensive DPRs as the government is planning to provide funds from its own internal sources.
 
 The state government is planning to spend around Rs 1,164 crore for improvement of existing drinking water facilities.
 
 
