HYDERABAD: The Communist Party of India-Marxist elected Sitaram   as its general secretary for a second term at the party’s 22nd   in Hyderabad on Sunday.

 
 Yechury’s re-election, though expected after his political line was adopted by the party congress only days earlier, was not an easy one. 
 
 It came after months of internal warring over whether or not to have an “understanding” with the Congress among other secular, democratic forces, and had pushed the party to the brink of an existential crisis.
 
 Yechury’s candidature was decided through a show of hands in the newly-elected 95-member central committee. Insiders said even though several names were being discussed within the party as Yechury’s successor in the runup to the polls, all but two members of the central committee — one each from Andhra Pradesh and Telangana — expressed reservation towards his re-election. 
 
 The voices in support, however, heavily outnumbered the notes of dissent and he was re-elected general secretary, nearly unanimously. Presidium chair   confirmed that there was no contest in Yechury’s re-election.
 
 Many believe Yechury’s reaffirmation, both in CPM’s leadership role and of his political line ahead of the 2019 general elections, have given him a decisive edge over the hostile Kerala lobby within the party. 
 
  insiders said while the re-election was seen as marking the defeat of the Karat-Pinarayi axis — the dominant Kerala faction — most leaders felt a sense of “relief” that the party congress had ended without an “untoward or unpleasant” episode.
 
 It also appeared to be a mild edge for the West Bengal unit, which gained not only from being ‘open’ to working with the Congress, like it had in the West Bengal elections in 2016, but also gained in strength in numbers in the newly-elected politburo. Former MPs Nilotpal Basu and Tapan Kumar Sen were inducted in place of outgoing trade union leader A K Padmanabhan.
 
 That a truce had been reached, albeit a temporary one, also seemed apparent in Yechury’s near desperate assertion that all was well within the party. 
 
 In his opening speech after being re-elected, he said, “If there is one message that has gone out from this 22nd party congress, it is that the CPM has emerged united and determined to carry out the revolutionary task of putting forward alternative policy framework against ruling class policies, and to defeat the   government.”
 
 He also spoke disparagingly of the “media” that showed the party as divided. He said, “Our unity is even more steeled and our determination stronger than before.”
 
 A day earlier, politburo member   had attempted to underplay the victory of Yechury’s ‘minority view’ on Congress over Karat’s ‘majority view’, saying the party congress had only agreed to “redraft the disputed paragraphs” and that the political resolution agreed upon was an entirely “fresh draft”.
 
