THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: In the wake of recurring incidents of  , the fire and   has recommended induction of   members into the force.

 Tomin J Thachankary, director general of fire and rescue services, has written to the government that 50 tribal community members be inducted into the force and deployed in fire stations proposed in the close vicinity of forests. “The tribal community members who know the forest well will be able to guide the fire and rescue personnel in combating forest fire,” Thachankary said.
 
 
 The   had decided to utilize the services of tribal community in forest combing operations and had ordered induction of 72 persons from the community into the police force.
 
 The fire and rescue services department has also proposed 20 new fire stations in Idukki, Wayanad, Ernakulam, Kottayam, Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Pathanamthitta, Thrissur, Malappuram, Kasaragod and Palakkad. They are to be built in areas close to forest. 
  
 
 A detailed report prepared by   and submitted to the government in the wake of Theni forest fire incident lists out key gaps in the forest fire management. The report, accessed by TOI, says that the forest fire management in the state still lacks a systematic and scientific approach. “There is no institutional mechanism available within the forest department, with sole responsibility of fire management,” the report said. There is no separate establishment, even in forest areas prone to fire, to manage such incidents, it added.
 
 The fire and rescue department’s report highlighted the lack of scientific approach in fire data collection and documentation, which is vital for such operations. “The forest department is required to develop forest fire vulnerability map at the beat-level based on the forest vegetation and past history. This hazard map has to be analyzed in coordination with the local fire department and tactics should be planned,” it said.
 
 The report acknowledged that the forest fire-fighting is a combined effort but the forest department officials and the fire department lacks such knowledge. The fire and rescue services department gives only a nominal training to the firemen with regard to forest fire management. The lack of coordination between the departments is also a key vulnerability.
 
 The fire and rescue department has requested the government to create a separate wing within the 8,000-strong force comprising its own officials and home guards that will exclusively deal with forest fire. The wing to be headed by an officer in the rank of divisional officer should provide guidance and supervision to district fire officers as well as divisional forest officers. In the lean period, the wing should engage in data compilation, preparedness and formulating mitigation measures.
 
 The department has also decided to recommend to the government that it should procure tank-tread fire fighting vehicles and trailers that can go inside areas like forests where the road access is poor.
 
 
 
 A whopping 15,680.43 hectares of forests were claimed in 3,380 forest fire incidents in the five-year period between 2012 and 2017 in the state, shows data sourced by the fire and rescue services department from the forest department.
 
 Among these, 370 were major forest fires. The most number of blazes were recorded in Idukki and Wayanad districts — 71 each. The highest number of forest fires occurred in 2012 (1,032 cases). This steadily came down to 281 in 2015, but in the next two years the numbers began to go up again, as per the statistics.
 
 
 A report prepared by the fire and rescue services department and submitted to the government, accessed by TOI, says that the actual area claimed by the forest fires would be even higher as the forest department does not count fires on grasslands as having any great significance. “The loss from forest fires are always underestimated as only the economic value of species such as timber trees is counted. The ecological loss is never counted for,” it said.
 
 The data compiled also shows that the highrange circle head-quartered in Kottayam that includes Kothamangalam forest division, Munnar forest division and Kottayam forest division covering 1,329.4 square km reserve forests and 34.6 square km vested forests has been the most susceptible forest prone to forest fire in 2017, as 693.48 hectare forests were lost in this circle alone in 2017.
 
 The fire and rescue department tended 1,556 incidents of forest fire in the last five years. Of these, the majority were in Sulthan Bathery (172), Mananthavady (118), Kalpetta (81), Munnar (260), Kattappana (68) and Idukki (119). While the forest fires tended by the fire force were only 230 in 2012, the incidents they had to manage in 2017 doubled to 439.
 
