CHENNAI: Summer has arrived and the storage in most of the 15 reservoirs in the state has come down to just 14% of the total capacity. The government directed the administation in various districts, with a special focus on Pudukkottai, Ramanathapuram, Tirupur, Tuticorin and parts of Salem and Sivaganga where deficient rainfall was recorded last year, to work on contingency plans to avoid a crisis..

 The situation has been worsening in   reservoir, the lifeline of the   delta districts. On Friday, the storage stood at 9.8tmcft (thousand million cubic feet) of water against the capacity of 93.4tmcft. Officials have tried to maintain the outflow at 500 cusecs (cubic feet per second) to help recharge the groundwater table, which serves 19 districts. The Vaigai dam, which caters to Theni, Dindigul, Madurai, Sivaganga and Ramanathapuram districts has 11% of its capacity, while the Papanasam reservoir, that supplies to Tirunelveli and Tuticorin, has just 1.6% of its capacity, and Amaravathy dam, which caters to Karur, Tirupur and Dindigul, has 11% of the capacity.
  
  
 Collectors have been instructed to augment the existing sources by creating new borewells, infiltration wells, flushing existing borewells to increase the yield, rejuvenate infiltration wells, clean radial arms in collector wells, deepen open wells, and repair and replace pump sets and borewells. Municipal administration, TWAD Board and   are joining hands to meet the demand. “The focus is more on six districts where the rainfall deficiency was more than 35%. Instructions were given to micro-manage the supply system,” revenue administration and disaster management commissioner K Satyagopal said. The state is looking at revenue blocks that registered deficit rainfall last year and prioritise supply of drinking water every day, if not every two or three days.
 
 Directions are being given to simultaneously take up construction of check dams and infiltration wells, and restore supply channels to recharge groundwater.   department sources said the state would once again miss opening the sluices of the Mettur reservoir on June 12, the customary date for the kuruvai ritual. Last year, it was opened on October 2, when the level was at 88ft. “Agriculture season began in the northern districts with help of groundwater. After summer showers, rain-fed crops like pulses and oilseeds are raised. The standing crop sown in December and January is awaiting harvest in some areas,” said an agriculture department official.
 
 
