BHOPAL: A month after the farmers sold their soyabean yield under   (BBY) till December 31, prices of oilseed started soaring in the state. In less than a month the prices are up by about Rs 1,000 per quintal.

 Under the BBY, the oilseed was sold between Rs 2,580 to Rs 2,830 per quintal by farmers. Now, it has gone up to Rs 3,600 and Rs 3,700 a quintal on January 29.
 
 Ramcharan Meena, a farmer in Bhopal said, “we were duped and cheated as the commodity was sold at low price.” 
 
 Devkaran Meena, another farmer said, the traders deliberately reduced the prices when the government scheme was being implemented.
 
 Denying the allegations, agriculture minister Gaurishankar Bisen said the farmers were immensely benefitted. He also said, “When Bhawantar procurement was taking place, the prices in states like Karnataka were even less than those in MP. We gave more money to the farmers. Now the oilseed price in the world market is more leading to the rise of rates here also as these days the prices are also governed by international rates.”
 
 About 13 lakh farmers registered under the scheme who sold their produce till December 31 were paid more than Rs 1,775 crore under BBY. They include soyabean producers also.
 
 Government sources said that about Rs 4,000 crore have been earmarked for BBY. For different crops, there were different deadlines for selling the crops in BBY. Like for Soyabean, the scheme started on October 16 and continued till December 31 but for Arhar (tur dal), it will start on February 2 and will last till April 30.
 
 Spokesman of the grain merchants association, Bhopal Sanjeev Jain said, “When Bhawantar scheme was on, large number of farmers brought their produce to mandis leading to a downfall in prices. Now, almost all the commodity is sold out and demand and supply gap is more leading to higher rates.”
 
 Hemraj Patel, state general secretary of Kisan Mazdoor Sangh, said, “we always said the produce should have been procured under minimum support price. And the BBY was a fraud. Under Bhawantar, the full produce of registered farmer was never allowed to be sold and by paying the price-deficit for the crop sold under Bhawantar, the government publicised that it obliged the farmers.”
 
 The remaining produce, he said, was sold out to traders at very low price.
 
 
