Ludhiana: Going through severe fund crunch, the municipal corporation would hope for a turnaround during its annual budget to be presented on March 30.

 MC officials discussed the proposed budget with mayor Balkar Sandhu on Tuesday at the mayor’s camp office. The mayor asked officials to leave a copy of the budget and said he would give his consent after going through it once.
 
 The MC is going to propose a budget over Rs 800 crore, out of which a major source of income is instalment of Goods and Services Tax (GST). From GST, officials are expecting over Rs 500 crore.
 
 However, this time MC has not incorporated government grants a part of their annual budget, whereas earlier they had been including grants from various sources like Hudco (Housing and Urban Development Corporation) or Amrut (Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation) in the budget.
 
 In this budget, officials have kept a major quotient for the construction and maintenance of city roads, water supply, sewerage, and development of parks.
 
 Mayor Balkar Sandhu, after a discussion over the budget, said: “It is my first   as mayor, so I wanted to first understand everything. Officials told me about the proposed budget, but I will first read it and then give my final nod.”
 
 He said they would put the budget in the house on March 30. Meanwhile, MC commissioner Jaskiran Singh said they had told the mayor about the budget, and he had given the consent for calling a house meeting for budget approval. He said they had to send the budget to the government after getting a nod from the MC house to avoid any repercussions at a later stage.
 
 ‘Recover pending dues’
 
 Giving a clear message to officials in the first meeting with them at the mayor’s camp office on Tuesday, mayor Balkar Sandhu asked them to move out and recover pending dues from defaulters. “The department has given officers cars, and I have asked them to use those cars for moving in the field to recover pending dues,” said Balkar, while adding that he had asked them to catch hold of big defaulters, not the small ones. 
 
 
