AHMEDABAD: Gujarat high court has granted interim bail to a policeman to initiate his process for early retirement from service.

 Assistant sub-inspector   from Rajkot was put behind bars in April last year in connection with murder of an employee of Rajmoti Industries, Dinesh Daxini. Bhatt was one of many including police officials and company’s office bearers who were arrested for the murder. He was on the verge of retirement.
 
 Instead of bracing superannuation by remaining behind bars, Bhatt thought of taking early retirement and approached the HC to grant bail so that he can submit documents to initiate retirement procedure. Justice B N Karia on Tuesday granted bail to him for seven days on personal bond of Rs 5,000.
 
 The HC also granted bail to Mehsana district’s   for seven days when she requested for temporary release to repair her house and make financial arrangement for her children, who are living with a neighbour at present. This is because the entire family is in prison in connection with a murder case.
 
 While Raiben got a seven-day bail, a co-accused in the same case, Chandanben Vaghari, did not get bail. She was seeking bail for three weeks to seek a bride for his son. But the HC was not inclined to release her for this purpose.
 
 Similarly, Ahmedabad’s Shoeb Ahmed too did not get temporary bail on the ground of finding a suitable match for his daughter. The HC said that he had recently got temporary bail and that his wife and other family members can find a suitable match for his daughter.
 
 Another murder convict   from Mehsana too got bail for a week to pay electricity bills. Last month, he requested the HC for temporary bail to arrange finances for his family and to pay electricity bills so that power supply in his house does not get disconnected. However, Ahmedabad’s Lakhansingh Chudasama, a murder convict, did not get bail to pay electricity bills and to get his name mutated in revenue records.
 
 Mehsana’s murder convict   got bail for 10 days to pay rent for the house because he feared that his family would be evicted by the landlord in case of default in payment.
 
 
