NAGPUR: Well.known academician  , professor of chemistry at Indian Institute of Science (Bengaluru), feels that more and more students are now choosing pure sciences at the undergraduate level.

 Desiraju is in the city to address two separate scientific conferences on Wednesday.
 
 “It’s definitely happening across the country now. Though at   we only get students whose first choice was this campus itself, so we have always seen that trend,” said  , who is also the past president of International Union of Crystallography.
 
 While agreeing that getting an IIT seat remains a sought-after option, Desiraju worries that it is probably being done for the wrong reasons. “Choosing any academic field is fine but you must do it because you want to. Unfortunately, a great hype has been built around the life that an engineer can lead post an IIT-degree,” said Desiraju.
 
 His statement has been often talked about and termed as ‘herd mentality’ by various counsellors. A very small percentage of students actually get into IIT (because of limited seats), some go to IIITs, NITs etc, but overwhelming majority end up at local engineering colleges.
 
 “That’s what I meant when I said that many students take academic decisions for the wrong reason,” said Desiraju.
 
 He talked about a time in the 60s and 70s when IIT graduates would get extremely high-paying jobs and respectable posts. “At that time, it was not such a big problem but now with policy changes in the US, things are different. The high-paying jobs are not so easily available and the only takeaway is that parents get to tell everyone that their wards are in the US,” said Desiraju.
 
 Appreciating the high quality of studies at IIT, Desiraju pointed out that there is tremendous scope in all fields of engineering now and parents must not pressurize their children to pursue a particular path.
 
 “I see immense career potential for a chemical engineer but it does not have a fancy aura around it. India needs lots of civil engineers as the infrastructure story grows, so it’s not that software or electronic engineering is the only road to take,” said Desiraju.
 
 He said that parents must let their wards enjoy childhood. “I do not understand why kids in Std X should even be talking about careers? Just as there is more competition nowadays, there are more jobs as well.”
 
 “It does not matter what you are going to study, as long as you will try to be the best in that. If you are going to study biology, try to be the best biologist,” he added.
 
 
