NEW DELHI: A 12-year-old   died and his 10-year-old friend was critically injured after being hit by a   of the British School in New Delhi’s Chanakyapuri on Friday evening. The boys came under the wheels while trying to retrieve their football from the school’s parking bay.

 
  
  
 
 DCP (New Delhi) Madhur Verma said that the driver of the bus, Resham Pal, has been arrested. The victim, Rahul, and his friend Jagdish are both residents of the nearby  .
 
 Police said that at 5.15pm on Friday Jagdish and Rahul were playing football on the Rizal Marg. The parking bay of the British School also falls on the same road and the Vivekanand Camp is on the other side of the road. While playing, one of the boys kicked the ball and it went into the parking bay of the school. Rahul and Jagdish went to retrieve the ball.
 
 At the same time the   was returning after dropping schoolchildren. The driver told police that as he was parking the bus, the boys came to pick up their football. Pal said that due to the height of the bus, he failed to notice the kids who were in the front and hit them. Upon hearing the cries of the boys, Pal quickly reversed the bus, but the kids had come under the wheels by then.
 
 Local residents said after seeing the injured kids the driver fled. A person who lives in the nearby slums saw the children lying in a pool of blood and informed Rahul’s sister. “I went there and picked up my brother and took him to a nearby hospital, along with Jagdish, in a military bus that was passing by,” she said.
 
 While Rahul, who suffered serious injuries on his chest and head, was declared dead on arrival by the doctors, Jagdish remains critical with injuries to his chest. Jagdish is yet to give his statement to police.
 
 A manhunt was launched and Pal was later arrested from his hideout. Police are scanning the CCTV footage of the cameras installed outside the school to ascertain the sequence of event. 
 
 The case has been transferred to the motor accident claims tribunal cell for further investigation. The family took the body for final rites on Saturday, after the autopsy. 
 
 The school authorities could not be contacted despite repeated attempts. 
 
 
