NAGPUR : Gokarakonda Naga Saibaba, referred to as Maoists’ think-tank, withdrew his bail application from the Nagpur bench of   citing many amendments to be made and new documents to be attested.

 A division bench comprising justices Ravi Deshpande and   on Tuesday allowed his counsel Surendra Gadling to complete the formalities and granted him liberty to file a fresh plea.
 
 The wheelchair-bound polio-afflicted professor sought bail citing his health grounds. With 90% disability, he stated that his health conditions are deteriorating and he also suffers from many ailments. He said he regularly needs physiotherapy, occupational therapy and hydrotherapy.
 
 On March 7 last year, the Gadchiroli sessions court convicted Saibaba and his five accomplices for aiding and abetting Naxalite activities and waging war against the nation. He, along with Mahesh Tirki, Prashant Rahi, Hem Mishra, and Pandu Narote were awarded lifer under Sections 13, 18, 20, 38 and 39 of the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA), along with Section 120B of IPC for criminal conspiracy.
 
  was awarded ten years of rigorous imprisonment considering his limited role and his first attempt.
 
 Principal district and sessions judge   had also named dreaded Naxalite Narmada Akka and   as other accused in the crime and directed the Gadchiroli police to trace them.
 
 The Gadchiroli police formed their evidence on a memory chip received from Mishra after his arrest from Ballarshah Railway Station on August 22, 2013, with Mahesh and Narote. Even incriminating data recovered from the hard disk of Saibaba after his arrest clearly proved their role in Naxalite activities.
 
 Rahi and Vijay were arrested on September 2, 2013, while Saibaba was held on May 9, 2014, from his home at Delhi.
 
 Terming them as members of banned outfits CPI (Maoist) and its frontal organization Revolutionary Democratic Front (RDF), the sessions court held them responsible for violent activities in the backward district that led to huge loss of life and property from 2009. It added that Gadchiroli’s condition is paralysed and no industrial and other developments are taking place due to fear of Naxalites and their violent activities.
 
 The government declared the entire district as Naxalite-hit on August 6, 2002.
 
 
