Rangali Bihu, also known as Bohag Bihu is the first month of the Assamese calendar and is one of the main festivals of Assam. On Sunday,   Students Union is organising Rangali Bihu celebrations for Assamese residents of the Tricity. 

 Nilutpal Sarania, organisation vice-president said, “There are three kinds of Bihu, Rangali Bihu, Kangali Bihu and Magh Bihu. The one falling on Sunday is Rangali Bihu. It is the most important of the three as it celebrates the Assamese New Year. Bihu is associated with agriculture and rice harvest.”
 
 The day before bohag month of assamese calendar is called Dumahi. On this day, women in Assam prepare different types of desserts called pitha, which is traditionally made with rice and coconut.
 
 The day that follows is called Goru Bihu (goru means cow). “Early in the morning, men of the house go to the river banks to bathe themselves and their cows. Cows are fed vegetables with people wishing for good health. It is said that the cows should remain in good health. They are worshiped and new ropes are tied to them, said Bijit Pawe, an OT technician at Command Hospital, who came to the city in 2015. 
 
 This is also the time Assamese residents miss home the most. “What I miss the most is the sense of belonging as here everyone celebrates alone and there is hardly any community gathering. This year, we will have a bigger function being organized by a student union,” said Pawe.
 
 The next day, Sarania said, is for prayers, wearing new clothes, visiting relatives and giving them Bihuaan. “It is a kind of a small towel, which is tied on the head or around the neck,” he explained. 
 
 The highlight of Rangali Bihu is Bihu Dance. “Bihu is also a festival when young girls express their love to young boys through traditional songs,” Sarania said. The dance will be part of celebrations on Sunday.
 
 Festival facts
 
 Known as | Rangali Bihu
 
 To be celebrated by | Tricity based Assamese under Assam Student Union, Chandigarh
 
 Where | Panchayat Bhawan, Sector 18, Chandigarh
 
 When | Sunday | 10am-8pm
 
 
