KOLKATA: The forest department, in a first-of-its-kind experiment with leopards in Bengal, has radio-collared and released two of them in the wild. This, say foresters, will help them get crucial info about the animal’s behaviour and check human-leopard conflict in north   in the long run.

 Bengal has successfully radio-collared tigers and elephants, gleaning crucial information about these animals, but this is the first time it is trying this approach with leopards. “This experiment is much more important for leopards as they stay closest to humans with territories often overlapping,” a senior forest department official said.
 
 At least 60-70 human injuries are reported every year in north Bengal because of leopard attacks but foresters, in the absence of data, do not even have an estimate of the leopard population in the region.
 
 Chief wildlife warden Ravi Kant Sinha said: “We captured the male animals, one less than two years old and the other an adult, from two human-dominated areas near   and   Wildlife Sanctuary. We have captured leopards earlier and released them in the wild but conflicts are still reported. We do not even know whether the same animals have sneaked back inside human habitat. That’s why we decided to collar the two leopards with the help of   (WII).”
 
 WII project associate Dipanjan Naha said the exercise was undertaken a couple of weeks back. “One of them was captured from a place close to Dalgaon tea estate near Jaldapara and the other was captured from a private tea estate in Sukna,” he added.
 
 
 
 
 Officials want to track the cats’ movement, behaviour and strategies they take to avoid direct contact with people when they sneak into human-dominated areas. The collars will also work as an early-warning system. “We will inform foresters if we realise there has been a man-animal conflict. Leopards attack humans in selfdefence,” Naha said.
 
 “Both leopards are still roaming in areas close to the sites where they have been released. But they may be driven out by bigger leopards after territorial fights. The collars will help us to know what they do after that, whether they find their own territories in other parts of the forest or sneak into villages and tea gardens,” Naha added.
 
 Sinha said they had plans to collar more leopards to get an idea about the leopard population. Former chief wildlife warden Pradeep Vyas said: “The animals’ movement pattern will help one get an idea about its habitat, which can later be scanned for scat samples. Analysis of these samples can also reveal their food habits.” Leopards have been radio-collared in Maharashtra, Karnataka and   as well.
 
  
  
 
