Tirunelveli: He is well aware of the risks in riding cycle longer distances with a paralysed hand, but speaks with steely determination when he explains his mission to pedal through the country and spread message on importance of keeping hygiene.

 For the past two years, Binay Kumar Shahu, a 42-year-old man from Bengaluru, has been doing just that, controlling his bike with his right hand and keeping the other in his pockets, moving through the country like a true fighter on a war against garbage and plastic waste.
 
 With his bicycle, Shahu covers about 100 kilometers every day for this noble mission of keeping India clean and plastic free. He was in Thirunelveli taking a break while riding to Kanyakumari from Bengaluru. “My goal is to create awareness on Swachh Bharat,” he says. “I have pedalled more than 23,000 kilometers, including a trip from Bengaluru to Leh in 2016, for Swachh Bharat, over the past two years,” he says. For Shahu, the expedition has given him real life experiences that only these trips could provide.
 
 “I was told the Tamilans did not like Hindi and they are fully against the present Centre government. But they were not true. People in Tamil Nadu are kind and helpful. They were ready to help even without asking it. I have earned many friends,” he says.
 
 On his travel to Kanyakumari, his bike broke down after completing 50 kilometers, leaving him in a lurch. “Initially, I struggled to get the spares for repair. That wasted some of my time. Once it was problem was fixed, I started covering at least 100 kms a day,” he told TOI before starting the final leg of the cycling from Tirunelveli to Kanyakumari on Wednesday.
 
 Hailing originally from Manipur, Binay was into poultry feed business at Impala when he met with an accident on October 4, 2000, breaking his left collar bone. The hand has been immobile since then. “I began riding bicycle for convenience. In 2014, I shifted to Bengaluru, where my childhood friend Amit Singh Pokhiriyal gave me a race bicycle,” he says.
 
 In March 2016, he started pedalling the bicycle on an expedition from Bengaluru to Lek in Kashmir. He covered 5,100 kilometers in 124 days.
 
 Binay’s wife Pinky Devi, 32, from Jharkhand is a homemaker. The couples have two sons Rishab Kumar Shahu, 10, and Aryan Kumar Shahu, 8, who are in the 6th and 3rd standard respectively.
 
 
