 is known for her honest , real and upfront persona. In an exclusive conversation with 
 , she was no different. Bebo spoke about her 
  '
 ', her take on Box Office numbers, critical appreciation, female oriented films and of course  .
 
 On being asked about getting positive response to the trailer, Kareena said, " I think because the promos are reflecting lot of fun and ultimately people want to watch an entertaining fun film. Nowadays, people don't think whether it's a girl's film or a guy's film. They just want to watch an entertaining film."
 
 When asked whether she has noticed any change in the industry when it comes to women oriented films, she was quick to respond, " I think there have been women centric characters for years. My mother-in-law has done different characters back in the 60s and 70s. She has done films like Aradhana and Amar Prem which were women oriented films. There are always women centric characters you just have to pick them at the right time, the right choice and the right script. I think everybody is picking good stories and wanting to do good roles nowadays."
 
  
  
 Bebo believes that her career has been very different from other actresses. "For me I have been lucky as I have had both Box Office success as well as the critical acclaim. Critics lauding the kind of work and movies I have done whether its 'Udta Punjab', 'Ki & Ka', 'Chameli', 'Omkara', 'Jab We Met', 'Golmaal' series, 'Bajrangi Bhaijaan'. My career is very very different to any actress' career as I have always been about striking the balance between the commercial big budget as well as the performance oriented films. Veer Di Wedding will be one film which will be liked by the critics and it will also be commercially very viable," asserted Kareena.
 
 While the actress is busy promoting her film, she also ensures to spend adequate time with her son. When asked about the immense popularity of Taimur, Kareena emphasised, "I think every day to click his pictures is not right as he is barely 18 months old and he needs to have his space to grow up in a healthy atmosphere. There is nothing that I can do about it as this is the day and age we live in. His parents will give him the grounding and the kind of nurturing he wants. We are hopeful that he is going to have a normal upbringing. Saif and I will do our best for him."
 
  
 
