There’s more fun doing some things together than doing them solo. Just ask a group of Mumbaikars who took the sport of   a few fun notches higher when they embarked on the first-ever ‘midnight tandem’ cycle ride that started at Gateway, went to Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT), the  , Haji Ali and back. For 18 kms, it was all about shared decisions, twin manoeuvring and double the fun as the twosomes rode past iconic landmarks, stopped for midnight hot chocolate, 
 and a few  , too! Says organiser Harsh Mandavia, “Almost everything is done better in pairs and we thought why should this cycling be done solo? Also for such twin cycling in a 
 , the person sitting behind can even be a first-time cyclist,” he says. 

 
 
  
  
 
 The trail kicked off at   as the clock struck midnight. The tranquil 18-km trail weaved past landmarks shrouded in clouds and moonlight and as darkness and quiet took over, Mumbai’s nocturnal magic came to life. The pairs first rode to CSMT. After a round of photos with the illuminated   and turrets of the heritage building in the background, they took the Marine Lines Flyover and headed out onto the sea-facing stretch, towards Haji Ali. 
 Nikita Savagaon from Borivali, who was trying this for the first time, had friend Harsh Joshi as her cycling partner that night. “It’s so exciting to do this,” Harsh said adding, “I can’t believe we are cycling together at this hour. It’s so peaceful, there’s hardly any traffic.” Homemaker Rupali Kale came all the way from Vasai to participate, along with her husband. “We both love cycling and we realised it’s not tough to ride in  , in fact we have found it to be easier than riding single. For instance, at Peddar Road where it was an uphill incline, riding together made it easier.” For married couple Santosh and Prachi Majumdar from Chembur, this was also a novel experience. “We often try fitness regimens together like walking or working out, but we had never tried riding like this; it’s a nice way to chill out after a long day. We had decided in advance who would take the lead while cycling,” he said.
 Bandra-based tech entrepreneur Viral Parmar, who went with his friend Parth on the ride, is glad that Mumbai has something like this. “I was based in Singapore earlier, where tandem cycling takes place regularly as that is a cycling city. I’m happy to see Mumbai also going that way,” he says.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 The group was unmissable on the road owing to their blinking   specially fitted on cycles that have been imported and modified in Mumbai. Informs organiser Abhinav Kothari, “The LED lights increase visibility and add to the fun factor. The tyres were also modified as per the city roads. They are thicker to help one adjust to the thick concrete and maintain balance. They were also loaded with a mobile holder and a place for an energy drink.” At about 1.30 am, it was time for a break with hot chocolate and sandwiches. Then they pedalled back via   on a different route. The final halt was at Gateway of India at 3.30 am followed by a photo session. Everyone got polaroid photos to take home as well as replicas of the twin cycles as souvenirs.
 What also makes such a ride special for a busy city like Mumbai is that it offers complete strangers a way to forge new friendships. Chartered account from Dadar, Hiten Jain, says, “We all took a group selfie at the end for a keepsake and did a few boomerangs too; those are specially for the family   group,” he grins.
 
 
 
