THANE: A bulk of the income earned by the   (TMT) undertaking is taken up in paying salaries of the 2,200  . The administration that operates nearly 300 buses daily has come under the fire from activists for failing to streamline its losses.

 The undertaking has showed a projected income of Rs 99 crore in the financial year 2017-18 from its operations and various services it provides to the commuters. The supplementary grants from various heads, including grants from its parent body has beefed up the earnings to around Rs 222 crore this fiscal. However, the expenditure on the salaries of the field and the administrative and workshop staff has nearly surpassed its income forcing it to rely more on grants from the parent body.
 
 Activists have raised questions over the spending of the undertaking saying there should be more accountability on the staff, especially when the services of the TMT buses is not up to the mark. Nearly half of the fleet of the around 355 buses is never out on the roads rendering losses for the undertaking. Recent observations have revealed the undertaking to have lost out on notable passengers and revenue to transport undertakings from neighbouring civic areas.
 
 The TMT has 2,200 staff of which 1,800 are from the traffic department that includes 900 conductors and 800 drivers along with 100 controllers. Around 280 are deployed at the workshops while the rest are employed for administrative works at the headquarters and other premises. The undertaking spends nearly Rs 106 crore that includes salary, medical benefits, pension schemes, uniforms for staff, etc.
 
 “Majority of the income generated by the transport undertaking seems to be lost in paying salaries for its employees. The undertaking that earned Rs 99 crore in 2017-18 has spent over Rs 100 crore in paying remunerations to its staff. It is high time the administration pulled up its socks and justified the salaries,” said a transport activist.
 
 Meanwhile, the administration said it is working on introducing new initiatives to reduce the financial burden on the corporation. “We have proposed to lease out some of our premises including bus stations and also invite advertisement revenue through LED panels and screens being installed in buses along with the onboard entertainment facilities. We hope to become self-reliant financially over the next few years,” said transport manager  .
 
 Majority of the income generated by the transport undertaking seems to be lost in paying salaries for its employees. The undertaking that earned Rs 99 crore in 2017-18 has spent over Rs 100 crore in paying remunerations to its staff. It is high time the administration pulled up its socks and justified the salaries
 
