

 Located on the border of   taluka,   is among the newer locations in Goa where tourism authorities have initiated hinterland tourism activities. Goa Tourism Development Corporation (GTDC) recently commenced a one-hour hot air balloon ride from the hinterland with Assolda being designated as the takeoff point.
 
 “The hot air balloon ride along with development of Xelvona lake is a good initiative for promoting hinterland tourism. Even the traditional festivals like shigmo and carnival are held in our   with great enthusiasm,” says Rupesh Naik, a resident of Hodar Vaddo.
 
 Most of the inhabitants of Assolda migrated from Verna in Salcete during the initial days of Portugal’s conquest of Goa, says Dharmo Raut Dessai of Gauthan Vaddo.
 
 “Assolda is an ancient village in Goa and existed even before the reign of the Kadambas. Assolda was among the 22 villages of Chandrawadi province during the reign of the Bhoja kings in Goa,” adds Dessai.
 
 The lush green village abounds with flora and vegetation. “The entire village is covered with coconut trees and it has mangroves on the banks of its rivers,” says Manoj Naik of Bag-Xelvona.
 
 Till not long ago, residents of the village specialized in occupations connected with the cultivation of coconuts and crops.
 
 “Historically, Assolda villagers have been toddy tappers and agriculturists,” says Lata Datta Raut Dessai, a resident of Gauthan Vaddo.
 
 Assolda has a population of 4,300 residents. The Assolda comunidade has around 50 members. After 1963, the village was divided into a seven-ward panchayat.
 
 Assolda’s traditional village wards are Kumsai, Mashmorod, Pingal, Mushnimoddi, Cupamoddi, Cunermoddi, Gullem, Moddi, Guddi, Chinchemoddi, Coprimoddi, Dhacutolem, Savotto, Gauthan, Adarmorod, Betkator, Gaowada, Voilowada, Xic Xelvona, Dodialem, Bag-Xelvona, Durgawada, Hodar, Mordi and Cupwada.
 
 The village covers an area of 662.90 hectares and is bordered by the Kushavati and Zuari rivers, part of Curchorem-Cacora town, the villages of Avedem and Xeldem in Quepem taluka and Chandor in Salcete taluka.Assolda lies around 45.1km from Panaji and around 11km from Margao.
 
 Residents’ Speak
 
 Palm groves, along with agriculture and the presence of other trees, such as cashew, mango, etc, provide a green cover for Assolda.The cultural component is depicted by its temples and its four chapels. Sateri is the gram devi (village deity) of Assolda. Mahalsa and Chandreshwar Butnath are clan deities of villagers.
 
 Dharmo Raut Dessai | Gauthan Vaddo
 
 Assolda is blessed with water bodies like a lake, springs and the two majestic rivers of Kushavati and Zuari. Our village is also home to achievers and many of our residents have carved a niche in almost all fields including medicine, culture, sports, etc.
 
 Anthony Fernandes | Coprimoddi
 
 Sarpanch’s take
 
 The existing playground, situated next to the panchayat, will soon be developed into a modern one. Getting a sub-health centre is also on the agenda. The panchayat is also working on attaining two other objectives including construction of a gymnasium and a crematorium.
 
 Heritage Trail/Landmarks
 
 Xelvona lake: Its water is used for irrigation of agricultural fields in the village. It is also an important spot for the villagers to meet in the evening for relaxation. It is currently being developed for tourism purpose by the Goa Tourism Development Corporation.
 
 Sateri Devasthan: It is believed that this place of worship, at Gauthan, is over six centuries old and existed prior to the arrival of the settlers from Verna. Its zatra is held at January-end or early February.
 
 Ishwar Temple: This place of worship, dating as far back as the Kadamba period, exists at Adarmorod. No zatra takes place here, but festivals of Mahashivratri and its 'Vardhapand Divas' are celebrated.
 
 Sateri Devasthan: Like its counterpart in Gaunthan, it is believed that it was constructed over 600 years ago at Bag-Xelvona. It’s zatra is held in December.
 
 Ancestral house of late Ramnath Kashinath Raut Dessai: This over 100-year-old dwelling at Moddi is owned by a former sarpanch of the village.
 
 Ancestral house of Xeldemkar family: This 150-year-old house at Adarmorod is mostly locked as most of its family members live across Goa. They visit their ancestral house during the annual Ganesh festival.
 
 Selaulim canal: One of the main passages of water, it aids in cultivation of crops in the village.
 
 Railway crossing at Coprimoddi: The safety gate protects motorists when trains on the Mormugao-Londa route and vice-versa pass by.
 
 Our Lady of Miracles Chapel: Situated at Guddi, Sunday mass is celebrated here, while its feast is held in February. Other chapels in Assolda are Our Lady of Lourdes at Pingal, St Anthony's at Cunermoddi, Our Lady of Fatima at Bag-Xelvona and St Sebastian's at Hodar.
 
 Chandranath Education Society’s High School: Started in the late 70s, this English-medium school at Adharmorod caters to students from Class V to Class X.
 
 Old miraculous cross at Timblo drydocks: This revered site at Gaun Vaddo is over 100 years old.
 
 Impala Distillery and Brewery Ltd: The wine and beer manufacturing unit at Copremodi is 35 years old.
 
 RENOWNED RESIDENTS
 
 Late Dr Shambu Raut Dessai: First doctor in the village, who was an ENT specialist in Portugal
 
 Ganesh Raut Dessai: Geological engineer who worked in Portugal and Angola
 
 Ignatius de Xelvon: Tiatr artiste 
 
 Dr Joaquim ‘Jackie’ Fernandes: Ayurveda physician
 
 Edwin Fernandes: Konkani writer
 
 Victorino Fernandes: Footballer, who plays in the forward position and has donned colours for India, and on the domestic circuit for FC Goa and Sporting Clube de Goa. At the village level, he plays for Assolda and Chandor
 
 Ramrao Ghanasham Dessai: Two-term MLA from Curchorem assembly constituency (1999-2002 and 2002-2007)
 
 Dr Rammurthi Raut Dessai: Allopathy physician
 
 Late Babu Raut Dessai: Chief engineer, MPT
 
 Uttam Raut Dessai: Police inspector
 
 Rajendra Raut Dessai: Deputy superintendent of police
 
 Tony Fernandes: Social worker and deputy sarpanch
 
 Manoj Naik: Social worker and panchayat member
 
 Lata Datta Raut Dessai: Social worker and panchayat member
 
 Dharmo Raut Dessai: Village chronicler
 
 Rupesh Naik: Social worker
 
 
