NEW DELHI: For the first time in Delhi, Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) has seized   in   worth   and arrested two Brazilians. The grade-A   cocaine was smuggled in from Sao Paulo.

 The cocaine was hidden in tins after being packed in a condom, said Madho Singh, zonal director of NCB. A Nigerian national, who was the receiver for the cartel in Delhi, has also been arrested. A hunt is on for other members of this syndicate.
 
 The identity of the arrested people has been withheld as the operation is ongoing. The two Brazilian men travelled to India last year in June as well, their passport details have revealed.
 
 NCB teams had intelligence reports about two foreign nationals staying in Paharganj suspected to be dealing in cocaine. The bureau mounted surveillance in the area and conducted a raid on April 16.
 
 When the baggage of the suspects was checked, cops found four tin containers marked “Quitanda Morungaba”. A Portuguese translator told police that they contained juice. “The containers were opened and we found carefully packaged condoms filled with liquid. Upon testing, it gave positive results for cocaine weighing around 2.65kg,” Madho Singh added.
 
 The arrested duo revealed that the contraband was given to them by a Brazilian in Sao Paulo and was supposed to be handed over to a Nigerian in New Delhi. The third suspect was nabbed on Tuesday.
 
 While the trend of smuggling cocaine in liquid form is new, police said that Sao Paulo has emerged as the major source of the drug coming into Delhi and other parts of the country.
 
 In January, a Filipina woman was intercepted by NCB at   with 4.7kg of cocaine. The woman, Jhonna De Torres (36), had brought the contraband worth Rs 25 crore from Sao Paulo. She had taken detours at Addis Ababa and Muscat. A Bolivian and a Colombian national arrested by Mumbai NCB in June 2017 also took the same route and were caught with cocaine worth around Rs 56 crore in the base of laptop bags.
 
 A Brazilian woman, Joseane Da Silva Antunes (38), was intercepted at IGI airport on December 30, 2017 with over 65 pellets filled with cocaine. Even she had taken the Sao Paulo-Addis Ababa route.
 
 
