JAIPUR: If all goes well, perennial problem of choked sewerage and contaminated drinking water will be resolved in the   area. 

 The   (JMC) has decided to replace the sewer lines with new ones, which would be wider than the existing lines. The   has also invited tenders for the same. The deadline for the project is March 2019.
 
 An official said, “With an objective to rehabilitate and replace the existing sewers in the walled city, a new project has been undertaken by the JMC to be implemented under Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT). The Centre had earlier sanctioned Rs 80 crore for the project. The project comprises replacement of undersized existing sewers.” 
 
 The JMC has prepared a detailed project report (DPR). As per the DPR, the JMC would replace old sewerage lines in an area of about 135 km. “The existing sewerage lines are 4 and 6 inches wide. These lines are 50 years old. It is necessary to change these lines as population in the Walled City has increased manifold. The width of the new sewerage line will be 8 inches.” 
 
 In the past few years, during monsoon, leakage in sewer lines in the Walled City area has led to contamination of the drinking water supply. 
 
 Kunal Jain who is a resident of the Walled City area said, “Every monsoon, the overflowing sewer lines pollute drinking water. Even after repairing the lines, the problem remains. So far, the state government and the JMC have not been able to figure out any permanent solution, thereby, putting the lives of several people at risk. If existing lines are replaced, it would be a relief for residents.”
 
 The state had earlier prepared a plan to lay new sewerage lines. In the absence of funds, the proposal had been forwarded to the   (NCRPB). However, the time of release of the funds remained a mystery. An official said , “ Now, the tender are invited . As soon as they are finalised, the work will start. The sewerage work , which will be done under the   (JSML) will begin soon so that the roads are not dug twice.” 
 
 
