SHIMLA: Continuing with its administrative reshuffle, the   government on Saturday transferred seven IAS officers and 9 HAS officers while some officers have been additional charges. Additional chief secretary-cum-principal secretary to chief minister Manisha Nanda has been given the additional charge of chairperson,   State Pollution Control Board.

 Rohan Chand Thakur has been posted as director (information technology) with additional charge of the ayurveda department. Earlier, he was transferred as director (urban development, town and country planning).
 
 C P Verma has been posted as director of Himachal Institute of Public Administration earlier he was posted as special secretary (forest and industries).   has been posted as chief executive officer of   while Aditya Negi has been posted as additional controller of stores (industries).
 
 Anupam Kashyap has been posted as director (information and public relations) with additional charge of special secretary of the same department along with tourism and civil aviation departments.
 
 Gyan Chand Negi has been posted as ADM (protocol), Shimla, while Dr Pankaj Lalit has been posted as secretary (state transport authority)-cum-additional commissioner (transport). Hemis Negi has been posted as joint commissioner transport-cum-RTO (headquarters), Shimla.
 
 Madhu Bala has been posted as secretary (lokayukta), Gopal Sharma has been appointed as special secretary (forest and industries), while member secretary of HP State Pollution Control Board Dr R K Pruthi has been given additional charge of director (town and country planning).
 
 Ram Kumar Gautam has been posted as managing director of HP State Cooperative Bank.
 
 In a bureaucratic shake-up in Himachal, the BJP government had earlier transferred 10 DCs among 36 IAS officers. 
 
 Shimla, Kangra get new SPs
 
 Times News Network
 
 Shimla: In a   in the police department, the state government on Saturday changed SPs of Shimla and Kangra districts. While Santosh Patial has been appointed as Kangra SP in place of Ramesh Chhajta, Umapati Jamwal has been appointed as Shimla SP in place of Soumya  . 
 
 Patila was earlier posted at Police Training Centre, Daroh, while Jamwal was posted at IRBN Pandoh. Soumya Sambasiva will now have to wait for a new posting and has been asked to report to headquarters. Sambasivan is the first female superintendent of police (SP) appointed in Shimla. She had come in place of DW Negi, who was shifted in the wake of widespread protests in Kotkhai rape-murder case.
 
 Meanwhile, J P Singh has been appointed as IG (NR) Kangra, while Arvind Sharda has been appointed as IG (Vigilance). Daljit Thakur has been appointed as IG (CID Intelligence), Shimla, while Ramesh Sharma has been appointed as DSP Parwanoo, Raman Sharma has been posted as ASP Daroh and Praveer Thakur has been posted as ASP Shimla.
 
 Brijesh Sood has been posted as DSP (CID Intelligence) Shimla with additional charge of DSP (Cyber Crime).   has been posted as DSP Junga and Bhisham Thakur has been posted as DSP IRB 6th Battalion Kollar.
 
 
