Nagpur: Starting with high temperature which dipped within a fortnight and surged again closer to the month end –February saw wide fluctuations in the city’s weather. Weathermen predict mainly clear sky for the first four days of March. 
 
 February 26 was the hottest day of the month with the maximum temperature rising to 36.2 degrees Celsius (four degrees above normal). The minimum temperature of the day was 17.3 degrees Celsius. On the other hand, month’s second day was the coldest at 10.2 degrees Celsius. 
  
 In the first week of February, temperature ranged between 32.6 to nearly 34 degrees Celsius. The difference between the maximum and minimum temperatures of the first three days was quite significant – indicating the days were hotter and nights colder. However in the second week, the minimum temperature gradually began to rise, getting closer to the normal. 
  
 Showers and  , which lashed the region on February 11, brought a dip in maximum temperature from 32.9 to 28.1 degrees Celsius. For the next four days, the temperature remained between 26 to 28.6 degrees Celsius. Rains and hailstorm reportedly affected   at many places in the region, with standing crop of cotton, wheat, grapes and chickpea in Jalna, Beed, Buldhana, Washim, Amravati and   districts of Vidarbha and   region getting destroyed. 
  
 From February 16, the mercury surged again with a temperature of 30.4 degrees Celsius and has since been fluctuating between 31-36 degrees. 
  
 On most days, the minimum temperature remained 1-5 degrees below normal or 1-2 degrees above it, it was eight degrees above normal on February 21. On the same day, the maximum temperature was 33.5 degrees Celsius – one degree above normal. 
  
 According to forecast of regional met department, the first four days of March will see clear sky with maximum temperature of around 36 degrees. The minimum temperature is expected to be between 16-19 degrees. Nagpurians can expect partly cloudy sky on March 5 and 6 with a slight drop in temperature. 
  
  
