Two Constitutionally mandated offices – the Chief Justice and the Speaker – are under sustained stress. This is both systemically unhealthy and dangerous, if not catastrophic in the long run.
 
  So who is to blame? The convenient answer is to put it down to the growing bitterness among political parties and how they are willing to go to any length to undermine institutions. While there may be some merit in that argument, the truth is we are just a year before elections. The grammar of daily political conversation is obviously going to get competitive, scathing and combative.
  
  Political parties will do what they must to win, which is why the onus to maintain constitutional decorum falls on institutions and specifically, on those who head them. They can’t duck responsibility and hope for the storm to pass. The Chief Justice is today a target of impeachment discussions. The merits of this effort aside, one has to question how did things come this far?
  
  When the four seniormost SC judges did an unprecedented press conference in January, they signaled quite clearly that all wasn’t well in the haloed halls of the higher judiciary. Yet, little action, reaction or response followed – neither was there any corrective action based on grievances aired by the four judges nor was their admonishment by the office of  , if he felt what they did was wrong.
  
  Either way, a response was needed to restore confidence in the institution. Instead, it was just expected to blow over, as though nothing much happened. Well, why blame political entities if they wish to make the most of this situation. Today, the higher judiciary runs the risk of being divided on political lines because the institution could not get its house in order. And, therefore, it’s no surprise that the first political target is the head of the institution, the CJI himself.
  
  The outcome is of no consequence here. The fact that this haloed office will find itself under such scrutiny isn’t a desirable picture, though necessitated totally by the disinclination to address a larger problem. Quite similarly, the office of the   is under similar stress over whether or not to admit the   (NCM). The inability to ensure a headcount because the house is not in order does send out mixed signals, especially when the BJP has said it’s willing to have a discussion.
  
  Again, the issue is not on what’s the right call to take. That’s surely the Speaker’s prerogative. But what’s important is the process, the precedents and rules which are brought to bear in justifying a call, even if that means explaining why the house couldn’t be brought to order. Eventually, the narrative which builds is that a bunch of AIADMK MPs with a grouse over the Cauvery dispute didn’t allow a NCM headcount to happen. This is a weak argument that leaves a bad precedent.
  
  The Speaker’s office came under similar duress when the   pushed the Bill to divide Andhra Pradesh amid pandemonium, when house was actually ‘not in order’. That was the other extreme and it did great damage to the institution. The Speakers in Assemblies of AP and Telangana are today sitting on complaints of violation of anti-defection law, refusing to adjudicate for political reasons. And they see nothing wrong in doing so.
  
  The Chief Justice and the Lok Sabha Speaker are two very important offices of the Constitution. They can ill afford to be reluctant participants in a crisis within their own precinct, for consequences will be far more damaging than what meets the eye.
  
