BHOPAL:   (Accredited social health activists) workers in the state are up in arms over change in the name of the condom distributed through government agencies from ‘Delux Nirodh’ to ‘Asha Nirodh’ They claim that ‘they are being subjected to uncomfortable comments as the condom’s name is also ASHA’.

 
 
 Though the name was changed in 2016, but the number of comments is increasing with each passing day and the situation has become unbearable, claim workers. As a mark of protest, many ASHA workers have stopped selling these condoms, as they have to face uncomfortable situation due to the changed name. According to government scheme, condoms are distributed in villages through ASHA workers, who allege that after the change in name, locals have started passing comments like ‘Ek ASHA dena’ (give me one ASHA).
 
 The workers took out a protest rally at   district headquarters on Monday. All the protesting health workers wore pink sarees and took out a march in the town, demanding the name of the condom be changed. They alleged that they not only have to face embarrassing situations, but also have to bear financial losses. As per the norms, people to whom these condoms are given are to be charged Re 1, but due to embarrassment they are not able to ask for the money and have to bear the cost themselves, claimed some ASHA workers.
 
 “It has put us in such an awkward situation that everyday we have to face disparaging comments,” said  , district president of ASHA workers association in Seoni.
 
 
 
 
 
 People use double meaning words while seeking the condoms, like ‘Ek ASHA de do. Arey ASHA ittni sasti sir, ek rupaye mey de dogi Bhabhi’ (give us one ASHA. ASHA is so cheap that you will sell it for Re 1 only), said Kiran Dehariya, district president of ASHA workers association in Seoni.
 
 She said, “Apart from changing the name, we are also demanding a fixed honorarium instead of depending on revenue from condom sale as a source of earning. But nothing has happened despite our protests, so we have stopped selling condoms in the district till its name is changed. There are a total of 1800 ASHA workers in Seoni and we all have stopped selling it. The name was changed in year 2016 and we tried to adjust as far as possible. But instead of improving, things became worse with each passing day and it has become unbearable now. We are overburdened with work but government has not fixed any honorarium for us. We will intensify our protest and we will not even vote if government fails to listen to us." 
 
