Shimla: Performance audit of education, research and extension activities at Chaudhary Sarwan Kumar Himachal Pradesh Krishi Vishvavidyalaya, Palampur, by the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) of India has highlighted many financial irregularities, shortage of faculty affecting quality of education, shortfall in enrolment of students in different courses and delay in completion of research projects. 

 The report said that against the overall sanctioned strength of 380 faculties, 141 posts were lying vacant, which had affected the quality of education and research activities in the university. The shortfall in enrolment of students in undergraduate classes during 2012-17 ranged between 14-25% and in postgraduate classes it ranged between 27-67%. About 61-70% seats in doctoral programmes remained vacant, it added. 
 
 The audit highlighted the fact that financial management was weak as the university failed to prepare the balance sheet and there were instances of excess expenditure under various heads, irregular payments of pension and other retirement benefits from state grants and non-adjustment of contingent advances for a prolonged period. On the academic front, the overall shortage in faculty members affected quality education and research activities. The university was unable to attract and retain full quota of students. Non-recognition of a master degree course (MSc biology) and non-receipt of accreditation of College of Home Science had not only resulted in wastage of time and money of many students but also risked their future employment/ higher educational opportunities.
 
 In the research area, some of the projects remained incomplete for many years. The university was unable to secure a patent for its researches from the patent office of the government of India, the report further said. The report also pointed out that the extension activities of transferring technology and improved products as a result of researches of the university to farmers were not effective, except sale of improved wheat seed in 2012-14 while the sale of the major crops seeds through agriculture technology information centre during the period covered under audit was almost negligible. 
 
 It said that internal controls and monitoring mechanism in the university were almost non-existent as its internal inspection wing had neither conducted inspections of accounts and stocks nor developed integrated management information system. 
 
 
