HYDERABAD: For the second time this month, Hyderabad came to a complete standstill on Thursday — albeit briefly — as a sudden bout of heavy rainfall lashed the city around 3.30pm, killing two persons. Commuters wading through waterlogged roads, traffic jams and stretches ridden with uprooted trees/broken branches/damaged flexis were a common sight across various localities, many of which plunged into long hours of darkness owing to snapping of electricity lines.

 
 Kasim, a 45-year-old vegetable vendor died after an electric wire snapped and fell on him in Ziaguda. Another person trying to save Kasim was injured severely when he tried to pull him out of the water. He was shifted to a hospital.
 
 In the second incident, a 62 year-old man was washed away in a nala at Makka Colony located in   circle. The deceased is yet to be identified. GHMC’s newly formed enforcement, vigilance and disaster management (EV&DM) cell headed by director Viswajeet Kampati began a search for the body.
 
 Faluknama police booked a missing case. GHMC officials said the victim went close to the nala despite locals warning him. “The nala is covered but has vents for water flow, and he must have gone near the vent and slipped into it,” said B Suman Rao, GHMC deputy commissioner, Falaknuma circle.
 
 According to rough estimates by GHMC, Thursday’s downpour accompanied by high-speed winds uprooted 162 trees and 19 electrical poles. While two cases of building collapse were reported from within GHMC limits, at least 38 spots were identified as water stagnation points.
 
 The one-hour-long rainfall created panic, particularly among commuters, who were found running for shelter. Motorists caught unawares spent anxious moments trying to manoeuvre their way, despite poor visibility and severe waterlogging. The condition was particularly perilous for those travelling through stretches such as Banjara Hills Road No 12, Jubilee Hills Road No 72, the Telugu Talli flyover near Secretariat, Khairatabad, Bagh Lingampally,  , Ram Nagar, Boiguda, etc. The water-level here was above knee-level, commuters said.
 
 Many cases of vehicle break downs were reported. “I was stuck on the Punjagutta road for more than 20 minutes after my car failed to start. I was afraid to open the door and step out. I had to call my friends for help,” said Chakradhar Surya Kumar.
 
 In places such as Bagh Lingampally too two-wheelers were seen floating in the stagnant water even as cars were submerged up to the bonnet.
 
 Anand Nagar in Khairatabad, Begumpet and Dilsukhnagar were among areas that were badly hit. The GHMC received 75 power cut-related complaints on Thursday.
 
 A tree also fell inside the temple located at Nagammakunta, Koranti , Nallakunta.
 
 Emergency teams pressed into service by the GHMC were seen clearing waterlogged points and uprooted trees, soon after the rains. The work was personally monitored by Hyderabad Mayor,  , and along with other senior officials of the GHMC, from the command control room. Civic chief B   visited Red Hills, Vijay Nagar colony and other areas where trees had fallen due to the heavy rainfall.
 
