MIDNAPORE: The state CID on Friday issued summons to former   superintendent of police   Ghosh and raided the homes of several serving and former cops as part of a probe into a fraud gold-for-cash scheme they allegedly patronised.

 Around 75 CID officers raided over 19 locations from Thursday night, questioned four police officers and removed two, who were named in the FIR, from active duty. CID officials said they had seized Rs 60 lakh, 2 kilograms of gold ornaments and a substantial number of land deeds and property documents.
 
  Ghosh said on Friday that she was “out of station” but had learnt that her husband’s houses had been raided. 
 
 “He was not allowed to call any lawyer and was not given any document,” she alleged. “I will take all legal steps available to a citizen after returning,” Ghosh added. 
 
 CID officials refused to react to this statement.
 
 Ghosh, till a few weeks before her resignation last December, was considered to be part of a core group of police officials in Bengal. She quit on December 28, protesting against a transfer to Barrackpore as   commandant.
 
 Daspur jeweller   stated in his FIR that in November 2016, a week after demonetisation, Midnapore resident Bimal Ghorai came to his house and pitched a scheme which promised he would get twice the value of the gold he sold and the payment would be made in new currency notes.
 
 Majhi alleged Ghorai had named two police officers and mentioned several unnamed ones and added that he was coerced into parting with 375 grams of gold, for which he never received the promised return.
 
 His protests to the Daspur officer-in-charge were met with threats, alleged the jeweller. “I went to the Daspur police station to lodge a written complaint on October 18, 2017, but they refused to accept it,” he wrote in his FIR.
 
 He lodged another written complaint to the West Midnapore’s superintendent of police on January 2 this year and, unable to get his complaint registered, he moved the Ghatal additional chief judicial magistrate’s court on February 2.
 
  The Ghatal court asked the Daspur police to register an FIR, which was done the same night. Majhi’s lawyer Dilip Das said: “We moved court only after police refused to heed to our complaint.”
 
 CID officials said 11 separate teams raided “unspecified” locations in Midnapore, Jhargram, Diamond Harbour, Barrackpore, Belda, Mohanpur, Keshiary, Contai, Mukundapur and Naktala across East and West Midnapore, South and North 24-Parganas and Kolkata. Sleuths questioned Pradip Rath (now Belda OC), who was named in the FIR and was the Daspur OC from September 2016 to November 2017, after bringing him to Kharagpur and then to a “safe house” in the Midnapore Police Lines. Three other police officers were also interrogated, CID officials said.
 
 Ghorai, who was named in the FIR, was arrested later. Ghatal additional chief judicial magistrate Leena Goldar remanded Ghorai to police custody for 10 days.
 
 Ghosh was considered to be part of the ruling clique till she fell out of favour with Trinamool seniors — Subrata Bakshi, Abhishek Bannerjee and Subhendu Adhikari, overseers of the party organisation in West Midnapore. Things started happening quickly after Adhikari told a public meeting, before the Sabang by-poll late last year, that some “within the government and outside” had drawn up a blue-print against the Trinamool candidate.
 
 
