MADURAI: While   mission remains only on paper in a few parts of India, this 37-year-old woman has been working hard to make her municipality and neighbouring ones open defecation free by constructing toilets. Meena now has built over 3,000 toilets.

 A daily wage labourer, who did odd jobs, Meena was asked by   municipality, two-and-a-half-years ago, to construct a toilet at her house and refrain from open defecation. Due to non-availability of funds, Meena expressed her concerns to her relative Deivendran, who came forward to help her build a cost effective toilet. Using the subsidy of Rs8, 000 given by the government she it took up the work as a challenge and service and not as just a job. 
 
 Municipality staff including engineer B Sakthivel and sanitary inspector who came around next time were surprised to see what she had achieved. Sakthivel told TOI that many of the beneficiaries did not come forward to construct toilets, as big contractors refused to work as the margin was less and people did not know how to go about it. “I asked Meena if she could construct similar toilets for her neighbours, and we were able to declare Thirumangalam open defecation free last year under the Swachh Bharath Mission with her help,” he said.
 
 He said that after achieving their goal, he informed municipalities in the neighbouring districts, who readily agreed to use her service. She has constructed over 3,000 toilets in Virudhunagar, Sivaganga, Karaikudi, Devakottai, Thirumangalam and Ramanathapuram municipalities. Meena gets about Rs200 as margin for a toilet. Meena along with her 22-member team receives about Rs500 to Rs600 as profit each at the end of the day, which she says is enough.
 
 In a re-survey conducted this year, it was found that about 100 houses in Thirumanglam had been left out and the municipality again sought Meena’s help. Now 30 houses have got their toilets while the rest 70 are nearing completion. “All this is possible because of my family, Deivendran’s family and masons who provided cheap labour for this endeavour. Constructing toilets for poor like us is soul satisfying though it is very hard labour,” she said.
 
 
