GURUGRAM: There has been a three-fold rise in PM2.5 level in the city in the last five days as compared to the previous week. Experts attribute this increase to the onset of stubble burning season in Punjab and Haryana, while officials blame a decline in wind speed for the same.

 
  
  
 
 While the highest level of PM2.5, a marker of   index, was 45.36 micrograms per cubic metre on April 12, it increased to 148.45 micrograms per cubic metre on Monday. The national safe standard prescribes the upper limit of concentration of PM2.5 as 60g/m3. Similarly,   quality index (AQI), on Monday, was recorded at 279, considered as ‘poor’ level. Both the AQI and PM2.5 level have constantly been rising over the last five days.
 
 While experts demanded an immediate ban on stubble burning, officials of Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) claimed that low wind speed has led to the increase in the   levels. 
 
 “A recent study has shown that air pollution in Delhi-NCR increases as soon as crop burning starts in Punjab and Haryana. In 2012, it was the first time that NASA showed how crop burning is leading to an increase air pollution in Delhi-NCR. It was established that crop burning is a major cause of air pollution. If you look at the level of PM2.5, a sudden rise has been reported after April 13 (Baisakhi), which is when most   start disposing of the crop residue by putting it on fire,” said Niranjan Raje, a former member of Environmental Pollution Control Authority.
 
 Officials of HSPCB, however, said a decline in wind speed is responsible for a sudden increase in the particulate matter level. “Till now, we haven’t received a single complaint of crop burning in Gurugram as there are hardly any fields. Also, we have made sure that crop burning doesn’t take place in the entire state. As far as, a sudden spike in the PM2.5 level is concerned, it is due to a decline in the level of wind speed, which doesn’t allow the particulate matter to disperse,” said an official.
 
 The district administration had on March 29 imposed Section 144 of the CrPC across the city to stop stubble burning that causes air pollution. Also, the civic authorities were instructed to ensure a strict ban on waste burning in the open and pollution control board to carry out awareness programmes for farmers to prevent crop residue burning.
 
 
