 plans to increase vehicle registration fee

 TIMES NEWS NETWORK
 
 Chandigarh: If all goes as per the plans of the Chandigarh transport department, then residents will have to pay more for getting their new vehicles registered.
 
 The department has proposed to hike registration fee from 6% to 8% for vehicles costing up to Rs 20 lakh. For vehicles costing more than Rs 20 lakh, the fee is likely to increase from 8% to 10%. The department charges lump-sum registration fee, which excludes GST and other taxes.
 
 The proposal, however, is yet to be approved.
 
 Sources say, “The proposal has been discussed and will be implemented after the administrator’s nod.”
 
 On an average, around 2,000 cars are sold every month in the city. The administration annually earns a revenue of Rs 600 crore in the form of taxes from sale of cars. There are 52 automobile agencies of different cars and two-wheelers’ manufacturers operating from phases I and II of Industrial Area.
 
 The hike in registration fee will further push the revenue generated by the administration.
 
 In the recent years, Chandigarh has been the highest revenue — both tax and non-tax — generating Union Territory without a legislature. Among all the five UTs — Chandigarh, Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Dadra and Nagar Haveli, Daman and Diu and Lakshadweep — without legislatures, Chandigarh has generated highest revenue of around Rs 5,500 crore this financial year. 
 
 According to sources, the UT administration has committed to the finance ministry to generate more revenue in the next financial year. Revenue generated by the administration is not used in city as the administration draws and deposits money in the Consolidated Fund of India.
 
 The city has the highest per capita vehicle density in the country. As per the data of Registration and Licensing Authority (RLA), sectors 31 to 47 have the highest number of registered vehicles (1.46 lakh), both two-wheelers and four-wheelers. This is followed by sectors 1 to 30, which have 1.14 lakh registered vehicles. In sectors 48 to 56, there are 34,976 registered vehicles.
 
 
