KOCHI: Krithi International Book Fair took off on Thursday on a poignant note with the chief minister putting a question mark over  's so-called status of an 'enlightened state'. 

 Pinarayi Vijayan, inaugurating the first of its kind of book fair in the state at  , said, "Can anyone call a land that consists of people who killed a man just because he wanted to satisfy his hunger, an enlightened or cultured state? Care and concern for fellow beings is one key aspect of culture, and the book fair and the lit fest are spaces that develop that humaneness within us," Vijayan said.
 
 Praising the work of the   (SPCS), the organizers of the fair, the chief minister recounted that the society prevented the exploitation of writers in the state. "The existence of SPCS deterred private publishers from becoming 'blade companies', and helped in the cultural upliftment of our writers as well as the state," he said.
 
 He pointed out that such a festival, which encourages free and fair debate and discussions, held at a time when voices of dissent are being silenced, was significant for the state. The inaugural ceremony was live-streamed through the official website of the book fest as well as its social media pages. "To facilitate people to not miss out on the various programmes of the grand festival of books and authors, all the important events of the book fair and the literary festival will be broadcast live through the website and the Facebook page of Krithi. We are expecting a minimum of one lakh viewers for our live-streaming," said Kadakampally Surendran, minister for tourism and cooperation.
 
 He reiterated the government's plan to make the fair an annual event, and to improve it in such a way that it finds a place in the map of world's best book fairs.
 
 MK Sanoo, announcing the festival, made a special mention of the convener of SPCS, S Rameshan for the arduous effort he put behind in making the festival a reality. "The man, who is a heart patient, and who had undergone a major surgery, travelled across the country to bring together publishers and speakers for the event. He is the silent hero of the festival," Sanoo said. MA Yusuff Ali, chairman and managing director of the   handed over a cheque of Rs 11 lakh and a set of books to Kadakampally Surendran towards the scheme of 'A Book for a Child' which was also launched during the inaugural session. Books worth Rs. 2.5 crore will be distributed to kids under the scheme, the minister said.
 
 Shashi Tharoor is expected to attend the second day of the 11-day long book fair for a discussion on his latest book, 'Why I am a Hindu', at the main venue at Marine Drive at 5pm.
 
 
