LUDHIANA: The Ludhiana police have booked a man, who works in the automobile department of   and currently posted in  , for raping a woman on the pretext of marriage for the past three years and his family for helping him in the  .

 The woman has alleged that in 2015, the man took her to his native place in   where he raped her. Later, he convinced her for marriage and also started living with her in a rented accommodation. However, when the woman insisted for marriage, the man refused to do so.
 
 The woman had lodged a police complaint with police commissioner   in December 2017. The   police on Saturday registered a case under Section 376 ( ) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC after investigation.
 
 In her complaint to police, 24-year-old woman alleged that the main accused is friend of her cousin. From his phone, the accused took her number and called her for the first time on September 17, 2015. He said he liked her and wanted to befriend her. After developing cordial relations with her, the man on October 28, 2015 took her to his parents’ house in Uttarakhand.
 
 Further the woman alleged that, there his mother gave her soft drink laced with intoxicants after which she got unconscious. When she gained her consciousness, he was in objectionable condition. When she objected, the man promised her that he would marry her.
 
 The woman alleged that she lived there for a week and even her parents were aware of their relation. Therefore she along with accused returned to Ludhiana and started living in a rented accommodation. She lived with accused for three long years. However when she asked for marriage, the accused refused to marry her.
 
 Inspector Avtar Singh, SHO, Jamalpur police station, said the police have lodged an FIR after investigation. The woman said the accused visited her in the rented accommodation wherever he got leave.
 
 He added that the police would write to the   department for his arrest and will also send a team to Uttarakhand for the arrest of his parents.
 
 
