PATNA: Plagiarism in research works has been a major problem for universities to deal with and   (PU) has taken various measures recently to check the menace, said its vice-chancellor (VC) Rash Bihari Prasad Singh on Wednesday.

 “Separate research advisory committees comprising eminent teachers and headed by the dean of the faculty concerned have been constituted recently to keep a vigil on ‘duplication’ of research work and also suggest ways for improving the quality of research. Every candidate will have to give an undertaking at the time of submission of thesis for evaluation that it’s genuine and in case plagiarism is found, s/he will be liable for legal action. Even the supervisors would have to certify the genuineness of the research done under their guidance,” Singh said.
 
 The VC said as per the UGC guidelines, the university would use the appropriate software at the time of submission of any thesis, dissertation or report to ensure that it’s not plagiarised. “Every student submitting a thesis, dissertation or any such paper shall give an undertaking that the document is original piece of research,” the VC said.
 
 A few years ago, the editor of an international research journal had complained to the PU VC against a research scholar of life science for submitting a plagiarized paper for publication. When the paper in question was sent to the external expert (referee) for evaluation, he found to his utter shock that it was a ‘photocopy’ of his own research published earlier in some other journal. The registration of that research scholar was cancelled with a warning to his supervisor.
 
 Commenting on the new system, PU geology department head Kriteshwar Prasad said each faculty member, researcher and PhD scholar should be provided an account in plagiarism-detection software for checking the content of their scripts. “The scholar should give an undertaking that the document has been duly checked by a plagiarism-detection tool. The guilty must be severely punished as per the UGC guidelines,” Prasad said.
 
 Meanwhile, PU has also constituted a committee of senior teachers to suggest ways and means to improve the standards of DLitt and DSc research. Even though there has been considerable improvement in PhD works following the implementation of revised guidelines, the DLitt and DSc research in the university is still being pursued as per the age-old statutes. The new regulations for awarding DLitt and DSc degrees would be prepared soon, said PU pro-VC Dolly Sinha.
 
 
