CHENNAI: When a  , a near supersonic transport system, becomes a reality it could cut the time people take to travel between two cities to an eighth (down to only 12.5%) the time it currently does by road. That, for instance, would reduce the travel time between Chennai and Bengaluru to only 25 minutes.

 Students from a city college are developing a passenger pod that could do just that; while perhaps turning out one of the first indigenously developed capsule for such a project.
 
 The 20-member team from   is developing a prototype of the passenger pod, which will be tested at the   facility in the US later this year.
 
 The team will first test a single-seater pod, one-fourth the size of its prototype, by end of this month at a 25m open-air track in the city to demonstrate the technology.
 
 “We wrote to SpaceX and they have agreed to test our pod at their facility. Once we fabricate the capsule, we will get a date for the trials,” said Hardhik Routray, captain of the Infi Alpha Hyperloop, the team from the university. 
 
 A fully operational pod will be capable of carrying 30 to 40 passengers at a time.
 
 In February this year,   signed an agreement with the Maharashtra government to build a hyperloop facility linking Mumbai, the Navi Mumbai International Airport and Central Pune by 2024. 
 
 According to the students, the pod will operate on the same principle as the one designed and tested by Virgin Hyperloop One. Magnetic levitation will help the pods float above the track and motors will propel them through a low-pressure tube at cruising speeds.
 
 “We are fabricating a linear induction motor, which is considered the ideal source of propulsion, a sub-system that Hyperloop One is also trying to develop. Though the concept is the same, our components are going to be utilised in a different way,” said Routray. 
 
 While developers are working to achieve a maximum speed of more than 1,200km/hr, the students are aiming at about one-third of that speed in their first test. The Hyperloop One capsule achieved a speed of 387km per hour in the third phase test in December 2017. 
 
  “We will be using fibre or metal matrix composites to build the shell ,” Routray said.
 
  The team is building the pod with funds from their university, private sponsors and crowd funding, through fueladream. They have pooled Rs 12 lakh so far, against their requirement of about Rs 70 lakh to build the prototype. 
 
 Once the team tests its pod in the US, it is hoping to get financial assistance from the Centre, as it requires nearly Rs 380 crore to build a test track. 
 
 
