NEW DELHI: Citing the case of Delhi Development Authority’s long-delayed  , chief minister   asserted that the state government would finish such programmes within three years. He, therefore, asked lieutenant governor   to transfer all jhuggi-jhonpri bastis, or slum clusters, currently on DDA land to the state government for rehabilitation under the Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board.

 DUSIB records show 675 JJ bastis in Delhi, of which 333 are on DDA land. In his note to Baijal, Kejriwal “requested” the  , who is also the chairman of DDA, “to transfer all the JJ bastis on DDA land parcels to Delhi government for rehabilitation on the same terms and conditions on which the land has been transferred to Raheja Developers in Kathputli colony”. The CM said, “Delhi government will rehabilitate all JJ bastis within a period of three years.”
 
 Kejriwal justified his request by pointing out that DDA had awarded the rehabilitation work of Kathputli Colony to Raheja Developers in 2009 and there hasn’t been much progress since. “About 13 acres of land for rehabilitation of JJ basti in Kathputli colony has been transferred to Raheja Developers for a meagre amount of Rs 6.11 crore,” the note said. “Of the 13 acres, a huge portion of land will be used by the private builder for construction and sale of a large number of flats and commercial space in the open market to private people in this prime location”.
 
 Only last month, the LG approved the Delhi Slum and JJ Rehabilitation and Relocation Policy, 2015, which mandates primarily in-situ rehabilitation of slums in the capital.
 
 Kejriwal added that while the LG has mandated DDA under the  , to carry out in-situ rehabilitation of slums on DDA land, “DUSIB was created as a special purpose vehicle for rehabilitation of JJ bastis in Delhi” and that the “DUSIB Act was passed by the legislative assembly of Delhi and notified after assent accorded by President of India”. The note argued that even the Special Provisions Act passed by Parliament envisaged the rehabilitation of Delhi slum in an orderly manner by DUSIB and that Delhi high court, hearing a public interest litigation, observed on December 22, 2015 that DUSIB was the nodal agency for rehabilitation of JJ bastis in the capital.
 
 In the existing slum policy, there is a section that states DUSIB is willing to take over any slum redevelopment on the same terms and conditions on which DDA has given Kathputli Colony slum rehabilitation project to a private builder. The policy suggests, “Therefore, each land owning agency may make a list of all such bastis which they are willing to hand over to DUSIB on these terms.”
 
 
