VISAKHAPATNAM: After two months of pleasantly cool weather, the city’s residents are now waking up to increasingly warm weather with temperatures steadily on the rise. Air-conditioners are also making a comeback after staying switched off for several months now, say residents.

 As a result, energy consumption levels have also started increasing in the jurisdiction of the Eastern Power Distribution Company Ltd (EPDCL), which covers five coastal districts of Srikakulam, Vizianagaram, Visakhapatnam, East and West Godavari.
 
 Speaking to TOI, EPDCL director   said the discom used to consume less than 50 million units of power in the five districts till a few days back. Now, it has been consuming nearly 53 million units to 54 million units per day in all the five districts with more than 57 lakh electricity consumers.
 
 Seshu Kumar said the power consumption would rise further before summer begins in March due to the continuous usage of electrical appliances like fans, air conditioners and air coolers.
 
 Meteorologists from the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said the maximum temperatures are markedly above normal by 2°C to 3°C at most places in the meteorological regions in the country including coastal Andhra Pradesh.
 
 According to Cyclone Warning Centre (CWC), Visakhapatnam, the maximum temperature registered was 30° Celsius in Waltair while the airport area registered 33° Celsius. Similarly, the minimum temperature was 24° Celsius in Waltair and 21°C at the airport.
 
 Simultaneously, humidity levels have also increased in the city causing profuse sweating. The rise in humidity was particularly discernible along the areas close to the beach such as RK Beach, Sagar Nagar, Madhurawada, Pedajalaripeta, Lawson’s   and also in areas like Gajuwaka close to the industrial cluster.
 
 “The city registered a relative humidity of 75% on Saturday. It clearly indicates that there was some moisture in the air that caused profuse sweating,” said a CWC official.
 
 K Seshachalam, a Vizagite and priest of a temple at Simhachalam, said hot weather conditions start every year after Ratha Saptami, a festival of the Sun God. This year, the festival fell in the end of January itself, he said.
 
