JAIPUR: The mushrooming of commercial establishments, especially coaching institutes in many residential areas on Thursday forced residents to protest demanding action against these   institutes. 

 Ironically, residents of city mayor, Ashok Lahoti’s colony, 10-B scheme too are the victims of the coaching institute students, who are allegedly creating nuisance in the locality. After the court imposed a ban on coaching institutes in Lal Kothi area, many coaching institutes shifted in the outer areas, including Ridhi-Sidhi Mod and surrounding colonies. 
 
 Since then residents are facing the wrath of unruly students living in hostels and renting-out spaces in illegally run private hostels.
 
 Gopal Kumar Agarwal, secretary of 10-B scheme   said, “We have registered several complaints to the officials at   ( ) and   (JMC). However, no action has been taken so far. The illegal commercial establishments in connivance with officials are flourishing. Now, we would have to approach the court once again,” he said.
 
 Residents living in the area alleged that unruly students always guard at every nook and corner in these colonies. Moreover, drinking at public places such as parks and roads and passing lewd comments have put residents in a tight spot as they could not move out of their houses freely.
 
 It was informed, as illegal commercial activities were happening in the colony, the RWA in 2004 also approached to the court. The court had directed the JDA officials to carry out a survey of illegal commercial establishments and take action against them. However, the court directions were not followed and illegal hostels, library, coaching centres are operational. 
 
 Residents of   who are facing a similar problem claimed, many people have opened illegal hostel to mint money. As number students from outside areas have increased manifolds it has become unsafe to live in these colonies.
 
 Kamleshwar Singh, a resident of 26 sector, said, “The police patrolling in the area is weak at night. As a result, many unruly students break car glasses many a times. Petrol theft is a major problem in the area. Despite several complaints, no serious action has been taken. This clearly shows that unless urgent steps are taken to increase police presence in the area, something more tragic could happen,” he said.
 
 
