When she was initially approached for   2,   was hesitant. She knew that it was a good team to be associated with, but wasn’t sure about playing   — a carefree, jovial, modern-day girl with several boyfriends — since that is not how she is in real life and hasn’t played such a character before. But when she realised that the portrayal of her character would not be offensive, that she wouldn’t look vulgar essaying Mayuri and that it would open doors to varied roles, she was onboard. “Apart from there being a message in the movie, there’s one in the character as well, which really appealed to me. Mayuri has two shades to her. Initially in the movie, you will see a carefree girl who likes to have fun. She lives in Goa, is a flirt by nature and has many boyfriends. But after a point, she realises that there is more to life than just that. So, in the second half, I get to portray several emotions,” she says. 

 Ashika adds, “For someone who has only essayed sweet, innocent, girl-next-door characters, this was very different for me. My look in the film is also very bold, so it was a challenge, more so because I’m not like that in real life. I was quite scared about becoming Mayuri, but everyone in the team, including   sir, guided me throughout the filming, and now, I feel more confident as an actor.” 
 
 Sharan’s comic timing is spot-on and he is known to be a spontaneous actor. For someone who is a few films old, was it hard for Ashika to keep up with Sharan, who has acted in over 100 films? “I have grown up watching Sharan sir’s films. After working with him, I realised that he is as lively and funny in real life as he is onscreen. He’s a lot of fun and a happy soul, who makes everyone around him laugh. We would rehearse our scenes, but once we were in front of the camera, he would be extremely spontaneous. He and   together would pull everyone’s leg on the set, including mine. Unlike in my earlier films, where the atmosphere on the set would be serious, I had a lot of fun while shooting for Raambo 2,” she says.
 
 
