MADURAI: Motorists on the   and Thravupathy   in ward 46 of the Madurai City Corporation are at risk of skidding and falling, as repair work done by the civic body recently has left the entire stretch of these roads in a mess.

 Hundreds of motorists use these roads daily for commuting since these roads connect the Pudur Vandipathai which connects the   (Dindigul) Road. The corporation had laid these roads around seven years ago. Since then no maintenance work has been done. It was only two weeks ago that the corporation started patch works by levelling the roads with blue metals and cement. This has left gravel and metals scattered on the road, posing a danger to motorists. Now, the roads have become worse than what they were before. The dusty roads have made travelling a nightmare for motorists, especially women two-wheeler riders. Many of them fell off the vehicle sustaining injuries owing to the loose metal pieces. “It is difficult even to push the vehicle on the road. They should not have done this,” said government servant A Ajay and working woman  , who commute daily through the road.
 
 There are myriad issues plaguing the roads, say motorists. Travelling on these roads cause unnecessary expenditure to the vehicles. “The poor road condition of the roads not only affects the vehicles, but also the passengers,”said Ajay.
 
 Meanwhile, the residents on either side of the roads are forced to shut their doors and window because of the dust. “It was said that they would complete the work in a week. Now even after two weeks, the roads are in pathetic condition. It is a difficult situation. Due to the dust, we are not able to open the doors and windows,” said ex-serviceman C  . Many senior citizens who go for walking along the roads in the morning also are at the receiving end. “The authorities have not cemented it properly, the stones were just laid on the road,” said R Jaya. When contacted, the zone 2 executive engineer   said, “Contractors carry out works jointly on three or more roads. We will ask them to complete the work soon.”
 
 
