NAGPUR: It’s common to hear parents struggling to find admission in private English medium schools but in Nagpur, a parent is struggling to find the school itself.

 “My son’s admission got confirmed in Std I through   quota lottery but when I went to complete formalities, I was unable to locate the school,” said parent Amit Gaisamudre.
 
 On April 21, Gaisamudre received confirmation that his son has been allotted a seat at   (CSN). As per the official RTE records, a copy of which is available with TOI, the school is located near Dixit Nagar gate on Nari Road (north Nagpur). “That’s just 0.6km from my house as per the allocation letter given to me. Of the four preferences that I had selected,   was not only the closest but also the only   affiliated school,” said Gaisamudre, who works as a driver with a private firm.
 
 But when he reached Dixit Nagar gate area, the school was nowhere to be found. “I asked shop owners in the vicinity and even the security guard at Dixit Nagar but nobody had heard about such a school. Then a friend of mine helped me find out about the school on the Internet and we located an address near Dr Ambedkar maidan, about 2.5km from Dixit Nagar,” said Gaisamudre. 
 
 Taking leave from his job, Gaisamudre started the next day by reaching the address but found the gate of the one-storey structure locked. Flex printed boards displaying CSN name were placed on the gate. “There were three numbers mentioned on the flex board but one landline was incorrect while nobody answered the mobile numbers. Neighbours told me that the school has been locked for last two months,” said Gaisamudre. 
 
 Google search again came to Gaisamudre’s rescue as he was able to trace school management’s office at Bhim Chowk at Jaripatka. “It was here that I was informed that a new building of CSN is being constructed behind New Jaripakta layout and it will be ready before the new academic session. I was asked to bring original documents and confirm my son’s admission at the earliest. They also informed me that at Dixit Nagar gate, the same management has a college,” he told TOI. 
 
 The new CSN building is around 5km from Dixit Nagar and as of now, the construction is in very early stage with just foundation and concrete columns being laid. A contractor at the site told TOI, “The school’s building will be ready by June”. With the school’s actual location being around 5.5km from his home, Gaisamudre is now thinking of taking admission somewhere else. 
 
 But a bigger issue that has arisen is how come there is a mismatch between official records of the education department and that of the school. Neither is the school located at Dixit Nagar gate area, nor is it affiliated to CBSE. TOI spoke to management member Shashikant Jambhulkar but not many answers were forthcoming. 
 
 “CSN was started a year ago and the school’s official location is where the construction is currently going on and it was functioning out of a temporary location,” said Jambhulkar. No school can be relocated without permission from the education department. And if such permission had been obtained, why was it not reflecting in the RTE database because admissions are given according to location. Jambhulkar expressed surprise that CSN was listed as ‘CBSE’ in education department records. TOI whatsapped a copy of the official RTE document which clearly mentions CSN as ‘CBSE’. Jambhulkar had seen the message, but did not reply after that. 
 
 Shahid Sharif, RTE education activist, said, “Parents are misled if information reflected in official records is incorrect. Now an official inquiry must be done to find out if it’s the school or education officials who are responsible for this. The education department must physically inspect schools at least once a year to check such issues.” 
 
 
