SHIMLA: The   of health and family welfare has demanded additional around 450 bighas of land for the All India Institute of Medical Sciences ( ) at   in   district whose foundation stone was laid by Prime Minister   in October last year before the announcement of the assembly elections. The Centre has already approved Rs 1,351 crore, in principle, for the project.

 Sources said the state government had already transferred 681 bighas of land to the Union ministry while recently NOC (no objection certificate) was given for the transfer of 112 bighas of land belonging to the animal husbandry department and the state has forwarded the case to the Centre for forest clearance.
 
 According to sources, around 450 bighas of additional land now being sought for the project is the forest land and getting clearances for it at the earliest would be a challenge. Only after getting forest clearance, this land could be transferred to the Union ministry and only then would the work start on the ambitious project.
 
 Foundation stone of the AIIMS was laid six months ago and so far even the process of land transfer has not been completed.
 
 Chief minister   said the Union ministry has sought additional land for AIIMS and the government would provide the required land for the project. He said earlier the projects were being opened even at small chunks of land and later these institutions used to face congestion. He said AIIMS was an important project and as part of planning for the next 100 years, additional land has been demanded by the Union ministry.
 
 He said the Centre wants the transfer of entire land for the AIIMS at one go so that plans for its future expansions are made accordingly.
 
 To be constructed with an outlay of Rs 1,351 crore, AIIMS will benefit the people of Himachal Pradesh as they would not have to go out of the state for treatment. Initially, it will have 20 super-speciality blocks with 750-bed capacity. It will have 100 MBBS seats and 60 nursing seats per batch per annum. All the departments will be interconnected with commercial and residential area inside the campus.
 
 
