VADODARA: A theatre activist who has helped rehabilitation of Chhara community members, a bike enthusiast who has turned his hobby into business and a leading triathlete just workouts for a living were amongst six eminent speakers who inspired generation next at the TEDxNUV hosted by Navrachana University, Vadodara (NUV) on Sunday. 

 The independently organized event, licensed by TED, was held under the theme of ‘Ankuran’. 
 
 Dakxin Bajrange, who delivered a talk on theatre activism and rehabilitation shared his experience of using Budhan theatre as a platform for raising awareness of the historical plight of Denotified Tribes, notably the Chhara community, which has faced physical, social, and psychological struggle after being branded as criminals. 
 
 The theatre which was founded by Dr Ganesh Devy, literary critic, linguistic and tribal activist continues to inspire Chhara youth in the rights-based movement through arts and literature. “Thanks to this experiment, we have been able to rehabilitate 200 families of the community at near Vatva. There is no other example where theatre has been used as a medium to rehabilitate a community,” said Bajrange. 
 
 Bike enthusiast Murthaza Junaid, who had started off as a part-time mechanic when he was barely 14, delivered a talk on how to turn hobby into business. “In life, you either give it your all and reap the benefits or you don’t give a 100 % and have control taken away from you. Seize control of your life like you would a motorcycle and make the most of it,” said Junaid, an automobile engineer, who guides motorcycle tours and holds several record to his credit. “I just ride motorcycles for a living,” he said. 
 
 If fitness professional Kimberly Shah stressed on the need to secure quality life and not just financial security while delivering a talk on health as a life long investment, Aadil Fahim dealt with the subject of peace education while Pravash Dey, delivered a talk on using blockchain in the areas of healthcare, real estate and insurance sectors. 
 
 
