Ahmedabad: With active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs) prices firming up, several pharma companies are feeling the pinch as the increase in input cost has put their margins and drug prices under pressure. APIs are the key raw materials used to make various medicines and the pharma industry is heavily dependent on China for its requirement of APIs.

 According to industry estimates, prices of APIs across different categories have surged by 15%-20% over the last eight months pushing up the cost of drugs production. Some APIs have seen a price rise of more than 50%.
 
 “The prices of paracetamol have increased from Rs 190 per kg to Rs 350 per kg. Clotrimazole, a raw material used to make anti-fungal medication, has seen its prices going up from Rs 1,400 per kg to Rs 2,400 per kg in last six months,” said Chirag Doshi, former chairman-Gujarat, Indian Drug Manufacturers Association (IDMA).
 
 Pharma industry players attribute APIs price rise to China’s crackdown on several industrial units. “The Chinese government has shut down numerous plants on pollution concerns. These plants also include API manufacturing plants. This has adversely impacted supply of raw materials-APIs and intermediates,” said an industry player.
 
 “The cost of drug production has increased by 5%-10% due to higher prices of raw materials. Around 50%-60% APIs are sourced from China. As a result, there is a pressure on drug pricing and margins,” said Viranchi Shah, chairman, Gujarat State Board, Indian Drug Manufacturers’ Association (IDMA). Industry sources also said that appreciation in value of dollar against the rupee has provided some cushion to pharma firms that export their products.
 
 Meanwhile, the central government along with the support of the industry is exploring ways to reduce its dependence on China for APIs. “The central government has formed a committee, which among other things is looking at strategies to reduce dependence on China. The committee aims to strengthen domestic APIs industry and explore alternative destinations for sourcing APIs. As part of its strategy, the government is also encouraging local entrepreneurs to set up APIs manufacturing units in countries other than China,” Shah added.
 
 
