New Delhi: The   on Monday   auction of over   belonging to   in Agra and Varanasi in UP and   in Tamil Nadu as it sensed homebuyers’ frustration over   of their money invested in the builder’s delayed housing projects.

 A bench of Chief Justice Dipak Misra and Justices A M Khanwilkar and D Y Chandrachud constituted a committee headed by former Delhi HC judge S N Dhingra and authorised him to nominate a chartered accountant and a valuer accredited with the SC or the Delhi HC. It said Justice Dhingra would formulate terms and conditions for   of the land.
 
 Of the 629 acres of unencumbered land owned by Unitech, 99 acres are in Agra, 130 acres in Varanasi and 400 acres in Sriperumbudur in TN. “We request Justice Dhingra to proceed with the auction as expeditiously as possible, as   are waiting with concern to get their money refunded. The auction shall be subject to confirmation by this court,” the bench said and asked amicus curiae Pawanshree Agrawal and Unitech counsel Abhinav Agrawal to assist with the auction process.
 
 Advocate Nikhil Nayyar informed the court that Rs 40 crore deposited by Pioneer Urban Land and Infrastructure Ltd, which had taken up projects in Gurgaon with Unitech, should be distributed pro rata among homebuyers in these projects — The Close (South), South City II Floors, Escape, Fresco and Harmony.
 
 “It is directed that the amount be disbursed to homebuyers whose names find place in the portal created by the learned amicus curiae concerning the aforesaid five projects and there has been no cavil over the same by Pioneer Urban Land and Infrastructure Ltd. The list of names shall be submitted by Pawanshree Agarwal to the registry and the amount shall be disbursed on pro rata basis,” the bench said. It clarified that disbursement of this fund would be on the basis of principal amount paid by homebuyers. Taking note of the plea of some homebuyers that they wanted to take possession of flats in semi-complete stage, the bench said, “The SC had on January 29 directed that the flats can be handed over on ‘as is where is basis’. The homebuyers are at liberty to seek benefit of the said order.” It posted the matter for further hearing on July 5.
 
 
