VISAKHAPATNAM: An international   entrepreneurs’ trade and technology hub is going to come up in Visakhapatnam on a five-acre land to develop and promote business opportunities among women entrepreneurs of Saarc region. Inaugurating the   conference of women entrepreneurs on innovation, incubation and industrialisation here on Wednesday, chief minister Chandrababu   said he would clear the file in a couple of days so that work can commence immediately. He focused on women empowerment and facilitating ease of doing business for them. 

 “The trade and technology hub is going to play a crucial role for empowerment of women. Several organisations, World Trade Organisation (WTO), some of the women organisations and ministries are going to come and work with the two organisations - Association of Lady Entrepreneurs of India (ALEAP) and South Asian Women Development Forum (SAWDF). The hub will create wonders in the near future. We will also have an investors’ meet next month in Visakhapatnam involving the AP government, Government of India, Confederation of Indian Industries. Industrialists and entrepreneurs from 50 countries are expected to participate,” said Naidu.
 
 Once the trade and tech hub starts on five acres land, best practices and technologies from all over the world can be brought together for knowledge exchange and confidence. “I am prepared to given even 50 acres of land if they need. All the eight countries can start industries here. Logistics wise also we are strong, having sea cargo, air, road, rail cargo and other countries can get exposure if they come here,” he added.
 
 He said women empowerment is very important. Nearly 90 lakh women, especially poor women, had joined self-help groups and are doing good work. 
 
 The chief minister said that women are doing better than men in various sectors, including IT. Women productivity is more than men. “In AP, all assets are being distributed in the name of women be it house or land. We would go for inclusive growth rate so that more and more women can do economic activity. We want to ensure Rs 10,000 per month income for women. Now, we have the fourth industrial revolution going on - technology with Internet of things,” said Naidu.
 
 
