MUMBAI/DELHI/LUCKNOW: Even as lenders were counting the thousands of crores they could lose because of the alleged Nirav Modi-Mehul Choksi fraud, they have identified diversion of funds by another borrower - Rotomac, promoted by  . 

 
 Bank of Baroda late on Sunday filed a criminal complaint with the Central Bureau of Investigation against the company and its directors, triggering a fresh wave of raids.
 
 Banks have been pursuing recovery of a principal amount of Rs 2,919 crore, which together with penalties has snowballed to Rs 3,695 crore.   spokesman Abhishek Dayal said Kothari and his family were being questioned and his residence and office in Delhi were sealed for investigation, while raids continued at three locations in Kanpur. Although the Kanpur-headquartered group is better known for pens, the siphoning-off is alleged to have taken place in its commodities trading business.
 
  
  
 
 The   registered a money laundering case against Kothari and his family members while the income tax department seized their bank accounts on Monday. Vikram is the son of Mansukhlal Kothari who founded Pan Parag; his brother Deepak runs Pan Parag.
 
 Explaining the modus operandi, Dayal said Kothari misused funds secured for executing export orders. "For example, credit sanctioned for export order received from Singapore for supply of wheat was diverted to another company, Bargadia Brothers Pvt Ltd. This money was later remitted into the account of Rotomac by Bargadia Brothers," said Dayal.
 
 
  
 
 This round tripping of money amounts to misappropriation of funds, criminal breach of trust and violation of FEMA regulations. There were also no genuine business transactions, except a few, and false documents were submitted to induce banks to advance money. The promoters created a number of fictitious and front (shell) companies to cheat the banks," he added. CBI also said that Rotomac had attempted to gain from interest rate differential between Indian and overseas markets.
 
 The accused in the BoB complaint filed with the CBI include  , its directors Vikram Kothari, Sadhana Kothari, and Rahul Kothari, and unknown bank officials. The Rotomac account was classified as a wilful defaulter on February 2017 by a committee of senior bankers following due process. Bank of India was the lead banker in the joint lenders' forum, given its exposure of Rs 754 crore. Among other lenders, Bank of Baroda had advanced Rs 457 crore, Indian Overseas Bank Rs 771 crore, Union Bank of India Rs 459 crore, Allahabad Bank Rs 330 crore, Oriental Bank of Commerce Rs 97 crore, and Bank of Maharashtra Rs 50 crore.
 
 After declaring the company a wilful defaulter, banks initiated proceedings in the Debt Recovery Tribunal and the  . The NCLT admitted the petition and appointed Anil Goel as resolution professional to look after the day to day affairs of the company. Once a petition has been admitted, a resolution has to be found within 180 days, failing which the company will be liquidated.
 
 According to its annual returns filed before the Kanpur office of corporate affairs, Rotomac Global deals principally in two business activities. While about 2% of the company's turnover is reported to come from manufacturing plastic products, non-metallic mineral products and rubber products, including pens, 98% comes from wholesale trading. The company's income tax return filing reveals that Rotomac's outstanding debt shot up from Rs 1,424 crore in 2015 to Rs 1,739 crore in 2016, even as its annual turnover nearly halved from Rs 9,138 crore in 2015 to Rs 5,874 crore in 2016. The company's net worth also halved from Rs 2,588 crore to Rs 1,392 crore during this period.
 
 While the investigating agencies claim fictitious and front companies were set up, the chairman of a public sector bank said, "The filing of the complaint has coincided with the Nirav Modi case, but the nature of default is completely different. In Modi's case the transactions were unauthorised, in Rotomac the bank transactions were genuine. However, there was a default which we feel was because of misuse of funds." He said that the amount would not be totally lost as some assets had been attached by the lenders and they expected significant recovery.
 
