CHENNAI: Two low-cost devices that enable people with motor   to access and use electronic and tech devices were launched by a city-based advocacy group for   (PwD).

 Aimed at increasing self-sufficiency among people with motor disabilities, the switch and the interface launched on Wednesday, will improve their access to battery-operated devices and appliances as well as   such as computers, tablets, and laptops.
 
 One of the two low-cost devices, VBoss, is a switch that helps in operating battery-operated toys or devices, as motor difficulties make it difficult to yield the necessary pressure required to operate switches. When   is inserted in an interface device,  , — which can be plugged in a USB slot of a phone or a laptop — the latter enables the switch to act as the left-click of a mouse.
 
 “Thus, people who have trouble using keyboards and mouse can use the switch and interface combination for learning, playing games or doing work,” said R Balaji, from  .
 
 Using the virtual keyboard, the two devices and software, life becomes easier for the person who until now had trouble accessing tech devices.
 
 Nandhini Botta, an electrical engineer working in the USA, who has a sister with limited functional communication, came up with a prototype of the two devices. The prototypes were tested and replicated at Vidya Sagar.
 
 Battery-operated devices and appliances such as torch, fan or toys that have ON and OFF switches are often not easily accessible for people with difficulties in motor movement. VBoss alone can be used for operating battery-operated devices.
 
 “Such devices enable people with motor movement difficulties to be self-sufficient. Also, kids won’t have to depend on anyone else to play with as their toys will be enabled to be operated with the switch,” said Kalpana Botta, principal of the Vidya Sagar School.
 
 “The devices are priced at Rs 750. Vidya Sagar will be patenting the technology, and then developing and distributing them among those who need it,” added Kalpana.
 
 
