PACHPADRA (BARMER): Amid an erupting crowd of over two lakh chanting his name, Prime Minister   on Tuesday flagged off commencement of work on the Rs 43,129-crore Rajasthan refinery here and said the project will provide new energy to India when she celebrates her 75th year of Independence in 2022.

 Mounting a scathing attack, the PM said the refinery is just another example of how the   makes endless promises just for electoral gains, leaving behind a trail of foundation stones.
 
 He reeled off several such ‘neglected’ initiatives of Congress including the 40-yearold promise of the one rank, one pension for defence personnel which his government fulfilled after coming to power.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 Praising chief minister   for renegotiating with HPCL with the skills of a   businessman, he said that because of her hard bargaining the state could save Rs 40,000 crore.
 
 “We know she is from a royal family. But she displayed her Marwari business skills in negotiating the terms and conditions of the deal with HPCL and saved the state Rs 40,0000 crore. This is possible only in BJP governments,” Modi said, adding that the refinery will change the fate and face of Barmer.
 
 Even though the event was for the refinery, the arrangements on a grand scale and the atmosphere had all the hallmark of launching political campaign in a state where the assembly elections are due in less than a year.
 
 For Raje, who would be happy to finally secure Modi’s presence and also mobilise a huge crowd, the refinery is expected to be pitched the biggest success of her tenure when she goes out to the people to seek another thumping mandate later this year.
 
 “Just 10 days before the announcement of elections in 2013, the previous government laid the foundation stone. There was no lease deed for the land, nor any approvals including the environment clearance when the foundation stone was laid. The project did not have any technical and financial analysis. There are projects worth Rs 50,000 crore for which the Congress government in the state has laid foundation stones. It was betrayal on the people of the state,” Raje said at the event.
 
