Erode: Farmers of Erode district are a worried lot as 1kg cabbage fetches them a meagre Rs 1, while it costs Rs 10 per kg in the market. The price, they said, has crashed due to the high yield this year. Upset, farmers have decided not to harvest cabbage for the time being.

 Farmers of Dhimbam, Hasanur and Thalawadi in Sathyamangalam taluk usually cultivate cabbage, potatoes, cauliflower, red chilli, tomatoes, beans, carrot and small and big onions in around 1,500 acres of land. These villages are situated 1,105 metres above mean sea level and generally get only moderate rain fall.
 
 In 2017, the region however received 330mm rainfall, which was higher than the previous years, resulting in good yield.
 
 Farmers in and around Thalawadi alone cultivate cabbage in about 800 acres of land. They usually grow three types of cabbage varieties. About 30,000 cabbage seeds can be planted in an acre.
 
 Pointing out that the price of cabbage has plunged to a record low this year, the farmers said the crop had brought them profit till last year when merchants offered them Rs 12 per kg. But this year, the entire scene has changed with farmgate price dropping to as low as Rs 1 per kg.
 
 “The merchants have formed a syndicate and they are willing to pay just Rs 1 per kg, citing good yield,” said M Rajasekar, a cabbage farmer from Thalawadi. He said the entire farming community has faced huge loss this year.
 
 The farmers said they have to spend at least Rs 45,000 per acre a month to cultivate cabbage. “Add to it the cost of labour, maintenance and fertiliser, and the cost shoots up to more than Rs 50,000 a month. Since it takes almost three months to yield, we have to spend at least Rs 1.5 lakh per acre before harvesting. How can we realise profit with a farmgate price of Rs 1 per kg,” asked T Rajaganesh, another farmer from Thalamalai.
 
 However, 1kg cabbage costs Rs 10 in the market. The farmers have urged the district administration to crack the whip on the syndicate formed by the merchants.
 
 S Samiyappan, a merchant at Sathyamangalam vegetable market, said they have not formed any syndicate and blamed the farmers for the low price of cabbage. “The farmers are more than ready to sell their produce for Rs 1 per kg as they don’t want to waste the crop. Actually, they are requesting us to take all the cabbages. What will we do if we have plenty of cabbages,” he said.
 
 Samiyappan also justified the market price. “We have to pay truck and loading and unloading charges. Hence it is priced at Rs 10 per kg in retail market,” he said.
 
 The farmers are, meanwhile, planning to sell surplus cabbages to nearby districts. They also urged the district administration to construct a cold storage to store vegetables. “It will help us maintain the demand-supply balance and avoid huge losses,” they said. 
 
 
