HYDERABAD: The   and Hotels Limited (LMIPHL) is now facing an insolvency petition in   (NCLT).

 Recently, the   (CBI) arrested its MD in a bank fraud case. The company owns the Leonia Resorts in Shamirpet.
 
 Andhra Bank, part of a consortium of banks has initiated insolvency proceedings under Section 7 of Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code. The NCLT posted the matter to March 7 for admission.
 
  
 According to the petitioner, the consortium of the bank has given consent to Andhra Bank for filing the insolvency petition.   owes ₹157 crore to Andhra Bank, Rs 151crore to Bank of India, Rs 179 crore to Union Bank, ₹258 crore to Bank of Baroda and Rs 22 crore to Allahabad Bank, a top official in the consortium said.
 
 In the petition, Andhra Bank mentioned Leo Meridian Infra’s failure to comply with the conditional order of Debt Recovery Tribunal. Sources said that the company has assets of around 100 acres of land, resort buildings and other infrastructure.
 
 In 2015, the CBI issued an FIR against LMIPHL’s CMD,GS Chakravarthi Raju, and other directors on allegations of cheating Bank of Baroda to the tune of ₹150 crore. The debts is now Rs 258 crore, Bank of Baroda sources said.
 
 The CMD was booked in two cases based on a complaint filed by Bank of Baroda and Indian Overseas Bank.
 
 CBI alleged that Leo Meridian promoters used forged documents and submitted a project report for 18 floors for the hotel, despite the fact that Hyderabad Metropolitan Development Authority ( ) granted permission for only 13 levels. LMIPHL was accused of mortgaging two hotels, consisting of 265 rooms and 903 rooms respectively, in Bommarasapet, Shamirpet.
 
 The complainant alleged that Leo Merdian failed to bring the stipulated margin from the company and several projects remained incomplete. The fraud allegedly took place from 2007 to 2013. In IOB case, CBI Bangalore Banking Securities and Fraud Cell arrested Chakravarthy Raju in January for defrauding IOB to the tune of Rs 54 crore.
 
 
