NAGPUR: “Networking is more about farming than about hunting. You should learn how to farm and cultivate relationships that help you grow and scale your business, today and always,” said R  , chairman and co-founder of ‘XYKno Capital’, a niche investment bank and a project management company, on Saturday. 

 Explaining the concept of networking and relating it to farming and hunting, Ramakrishnan put forth important parameters and dwelt at length on subjects like elevator pitch, life cycle and strategies, besides others. He branded clear communication of one’s value and building of trust as the crux of the process at an interactive workshop-cum-seminar on ‘Networking and negotiation’, organized by  , at Chitnavis Centre. 
 
 The workshop mainly focused on two objectives — use of networking to grow an enterprise, and ways to weave the right negotiation strategies in your DNA to make a winning deal.
 
 Moving on to the negotiation section, he explained the concept with the help of a scenario in a movie which made it easily understandable. He termed negotiation to be a process of coordination rather than competition where both, fairness and efficiency, should be maintained. He concluded with a set of suggestions for one to become a great negotiator wherein interests of parties, positions, agreement and best alternatives to negotiate agreement were the chief parameters.
 
 The workshop, that saw interaction with the participants in addition to an insightful presentation and relevant real and fictional examples, made it easy to comprehend for even a layman.
 
 Talking to TOI, Chenali Bisen, associate executive director at TiE Nagpur, explained the intention behind the seminar and said, “In today’s era of hyper-connected and increasingly competitive and red-ocean marketplace, it is counterproductive to limit yourself to a smaller orbit of network. Strong presence in entrepreneurial ecosystem is always exponentially productive and networking alone will help you towards building strong relationships, connection, inspiration, advice, opportunities and mentoring. Also, no business can be done without making a deal and best deals are the result of negotiation.”
 
 
