
Directed by Sidharth P Malhotra, 'Hichki', is an adaptation of a 2008 Hollywood movie, based on Brad Cohen’s book ‘Front of the Class: How Tourette Syndrome Made Me the Teacher I Never Had’. Rani Mukerji essays the role of   who has the nervous system disorder, Tourette syndrome, which forces an individual to make involuntary repetitive movements or sounds.
 
 While the ongoing trend in Bollywood is of multiple music directors handling one movie, 'Hichki' is an interesting change where   Royal has composed all the seven original tracks (no, there are no remakes). Despite the soundscape of the album being heavy on drums, dhols, electronic flourishes and other boisterous instrumentation, the tracks are soft, subdued almost.
 
 The first track and title song, 'Oye Hichki' sees a clever amalgamation of Indian and Western instruments, which invariably gives this song a fresh sound. There’s a small tabla interlude in the middle of the track that’s interesting. What strikes you when you first listen to this track is that Harshdeep Kaur’s earthy voice suits the lead actress   to the T! 
 
 This song brings Jasleen-Harshdeep back together after 'Nachde Ne Saare' ('Baar Baar Dekho'). Jaideep Sahni’s lyrics are noteworthy and encapsulate the message of the movie quite clearly.
 
 The song has a remixed version in the album titled Soul of Hichki, which is an EDM version of 'Oye Hichki'.
 
 'Madamji Go Easy' by   and David Klyton has been penned by David and Raj Shekhar. A fun, foot-tapping song that has lyrics like, ‘Sab wifi hum 3G’ and a cheeky Tamil rap, this one grows on you.
 
 A peppy composition, 'Khol De Par' elicits a head bob with its contemporary sounds and sprightly, inspirational lyrics by Raj. This soft rock is a complete Arijit Singh track and needless to add, he owns it. The catchy hookline stays with you much after the song stops playing. 
 
 Written by Neeraj Rajawat, the soft, slow track, ' ' has been sung by the 26-year-old Jasleen in her unique child-like voice. Shilpa Rao is a mature, talented singer and doles out 'Phir Kya Hai Gham' expertly. The last track in the album 'Naina’s Theme', an instrumental, showcases Jasleen’s talent as a composer.
 
 Overall, 'Hichki' is a fun, light and breezy album, that sounds promising and is worth a hear. 
 
