KOLKATA: Six members of a family, including three teenagers, were severely injured after a   led to an explosion at their home on Bamacharan Roy Road in Behala on Sunday morning.

 Police said Kanika Mondal, 36, was cooking around 9.30am when the explosion took place. The impact was such that portions of the asbestos roof were blown away and the house was set on flames. Kanika suffered maximum injuries, while three others in the house — her husband Sanjib and their children Suman, 14, and Sanjana, 12, suffered critical burns.
 
 As Kanika’s sister-in-law Jharna, 36, and her daughter Sunita, 17, who live next door, pulled them out of the house, they, too, were injured. Two fire tenders and residents of the area helped douse the flames and rescue all the six affected people. Kanika and Sanjib were admitted to   with over 60% burns and the others were taken to MR Bangur Hospital. Sunita was discharged later in the day.
 
 “It looks like the woman was cooking when the explosion took place. A probe has been initiated to understand what caused the explosion. We have seized both cylinders,” said a Behala police station officer.
 
 The officer, however, said they suspected a faulty regulator fitting may have caused leakage, which in turn caused the explosion. “Gas usually leaks from an appliance, connection or fitting. It accumulates in a confined space and that is what catches fire or explodes. In this case, the regulator was missing, while the cylinders were intact,” said the officer.
 
 In another incident on Sunday, a fire broke out in the ground-floor kitchen of a three-storey building on   near   around 11.30am. One fire engine was pressed into service. However, no one was trapped or injured.
 
 According to an oil company official, gas leaks can occur from defective rubber tubes (ones that connect the cylinder’s outlet to the burner), faulty regulator fitting and poor handling of gas appliances. Apart from that, leaving a pot unattended on the stove can cause the food to spill over, which douses the burner and causes gas leak.
 
