BENGALURU: Numbers have always been the best friend of  , a Canadian-American mathematician who has won the Fields Medal, known as the mathematician’s  . Speaking to TOI on the sidelines of the   at Ten event, the maths professor from   cracks the code on why mathematics is different for a researcher when compared to a student. According to  , mathematics gets an altogether different look when poetry, history and more are weaved into it. 

 
 
 
 Most mathematicians think of their works as art rather than science. Any pure mathematician would be delighted if they hear their work is elegant or beautiful. But the problem is that today’s kids are unable to look at the subject this way. I was lucky to learn maths on my own. My mother was a mathematician who always asked me to figure out problems in the subject by myself. This was how I started perceiving the subject as fun.
 
 
 
 
 Our textbooks today have largely remained the same since the pre-colonial era. Students are forced to learn rote and not given the opportunity to explore the subject on their own. There’s not much difference in the way it’s taught in the US either. Maths isn’t taught too well there much like here.
 
 
 
 
 I always loved playing with numbers and shapes. But one common factor among most mathematicians is that school maths never drew them. It was either one particular teacher or a parent or a stint at a maths camp that inspired them to join the field. Once you are allowed to discover the subject on your own, through mistakes and trials, you start loving the subject.
 
 
 
 
 Drafting the education policy has brought together many brilliant minds across the country who truly want to transform the education system. There are a lot of committees working on every detail. Bringing in change is not impossible as long as there’s a change in mindset, a change in our textbooks and a change in teacher training. The system has to be learner-centred and based on discovery and interdisciplinary learning.
 
 
