TRICHY: Henceforth, undergraduate and postgraduate students of   who fail to clear their backlog subjects even two years after their course got over will not get unlimited chances to pass out. According to the   guidelines adopted by the university, they will get only two more chances to clear their pending papers. 

 A   statement said that the university had adopted the University Grants Commission’s guideline to determine a uniform period within which a student may be allowed to qualify for a degree. Under exceptional circumstances, he or she may get another year to clear the arrears but not the unlimited chances the students had been enjoying so far. This rule will be implemented in all affiliated colleges of the university, 
 
 Sources pointed out that those who studied in Bharathidasan University or affiliated institutions would be regarded as private students if they had to clear backlog after the course was over. Students whose course and two-year grace period got over in 2017, would get only one more chance to write the exams since they had an opportunity to appear in the November semester exam. 
 
 While the UGC had formulated the guideline in 2015, it wasn’t adopted by many universities and many weren’t even aware of it. Anna University was the first to adopt a similar rule introduced by the higher education department to restrict students having backlogs for as many as seven years continuing to appear for examinations with the regular students. “We were forced to prepare different question papers for those clearing arrears and our regular students. This was affecting the regular students also while taking the exam along with those clearing the backlogs. Candidates who failed to clear arrears even seven years after the course will now be allowed to write the exams separately and only two more time in February and August 2018,” the official said.
 
 Further, every district will have only one centre to write the exams in the state. “We have now found that only 12,000 out of the 40,000 candidates who applied with arrears to clear are eligible to reappear under the new norm,” said the source. When asked, higher education secretary   said that   and some other universities had also adopted the guidelines as a resolution but the problem was too acute in Anna University.
 
 
