Pune: Till January 17 of the current financial year, the Pune region has recorded the highest percentage growth in the net direct tax collection among the 18 tax assessed zones in the country.

 The Pune region comprises the whole of Maharashtra except Mumbai and 11 districts of Vidarbha, which are in different zones for tax assessment purposes.
 
 The lead may or may not hold for the remainder of the financial year. One will have to wait till March 31 to know the Pune region’s exact position.
 
 The 24% growth in the net tax collection (after adjusting for refunds) in the region against a national average of 18% is also a result of lower refunds given out till now. If one accounts for a similar refund share as the last year, the growth would have been more or less in line with the national average.
 
 “We have achieved 75% of the year’s target against a national average of 69% even when the economic growth has been at (only) about 6%,” said A C Shukla, principal chief commissioner of Income Tax, Pune region. He said this was achieved by “creating a fear of law and not the law enforcement agency”.
 
 Shukla went on to say that the department conducted an “unprecedented” 220 surveys, where the assessees in the region admitted to Rs500 crore of unaccounted income. “We are prosecuting these people and there has been a ‘quantum jump’ in such cases,” he said, refusing to disclose further figures.
 
 Overall, Pune ranks fifth in terms of contribution to the nation’s tax kitty and this year’s full target is Rs49,697 crore. This corresponds to a little over 5% of the country’s overall direct tax collection target of Rs9.8 lakh crore for the fiscal ending March 31, 2018. Mumbai, Delhi, Bengaluru and Hyderabad are the top four zones in terms of tax contribution.
 
 Of the total taxes collected so far in the region, corporates contributed about 46% and the balance was contributed by individuals.
 
 Shukla, who will superannuate over the next few days and is slated to join as the member of the settlement commission of the tax department, said, “Pune’s growth is due to ‘performance culture’, and ‘grace of god’.”
 
 
