CHANDIGARH: The Chandigarh traffic police seems to be on a challaning spree these days as there has been a massive jump in the number of fines issued for various offences in the first four months of 2018.
 
 
 According to the data submitted by   in the   and   high court, in comparison to 1,95,732   issued in 2017, the number had already reached 67,153 till April 15 this year.
 
 
  
  
 
 Also, the department’s collection has gone up. While the Chandigarh police collected around Rs 4.59 crore in 2017 from traffic challans, over Rs 2.19 crore has been collected in fines till mid April.
 
 There has been surge in the number of offenders, while 1,30,533 persons were fined in 2017, the number of traffic offenders in   quarter this year have been 50,311.
 
 According to the data, Chandigarh police has issued highest number of challans (34,401) for not wearing helmets in the year 2017 while the number of challans issued for the same offence this year has been 13,364. Chandigarh police officials say that the department had changed the strategy and was effectively issuing more challans that could act as a deterrent to the violators and help in saving precious lives in road accidents.
 
 The high court had recently directed the Chandigarh Police to take stringent action against on traffic violators and impose heavy penalties on them so that it acted as a deterrent.
 
 At the same time the high court HC had also observed that public should be educated enough to observe traffic rules when on road . The high court also had stated that people should be aware regarding how they should behave while they were on roads. The court stated, “Why can’t people observe traffic rules and why there has to be police deployed in the roads to make commuters follow traffic rules and regulations?”
 
 The HC also had directed the Chandigarh Police to ensure that pedestrians should be given importance and they should be given right of way. It observed that “public should have traffic sense and give way to pedestrians when there are no traffic lights.”
 
