H CL Technologies on Wednesday announced a 10% decline in consolidated net profit for the quarter ending March 2018 at Rs 2,230 crore, though the company said the previous period’s net was increased by a one-time benefit from tax reversal. Net profit for the fiscal year rose 1.3% to Rs 8,722 crore. Shortly after the results were announced, CEO C   told   and   in an exclusive interview that the “deal pipeline” looks healthy. Excerpts:

 
 
 
 In early 2017, there was a lot of concern about outsourcing, but I think it has more or less settled down. Most of the customers look at what is important for their business, they don’t let things get delayed because of certain sentiments.
 
 
 
 About 8-10 years back, we started investing in creating local delivery centres. Of over 13,000 people we have there, 60% are locals. Every time there is an election, there is rhetoric. So, we have been consciously trying to increase local headcount and reduce dependence on visas.
 
 
 
 As an organisation, we are not feeling anything different. We also believe that in some of the chosen markets, we have always been ahead of many players… It’s a part of the journey … we will continue the momentum.
 
 
 
 I think it’s an opportunity, not a challenge.
 
 
 
 New technologies require a lot of talent to implement, support and manage. If you are able to reskill your employee base, it’s a win-win proposition. You will be able to address the market requirements as well as employee aspirations.
 
 
 
 We have what we call Mode 1,2,3 strategy — Mode 1 is our core services, where automation is the biggest driver for competitiveness and growth. In Mode 2, it’s more business outcome-centric — digital, cloud, internet of things and cyber security — and Mode 3 is products and platforms, led by intellectual property and IP-led services. In FY18, we grew over 40% in Mode 2 & 3 services, while continuing to stay relevant and confident in Mode 1.
 
 
 
 This year we alone have added 7,000…there are enough opportunities for people with the right skill set and productivity…I won’t say the number will go down, but the net addition may decrease… It depends on many factors.
 
 
  
 
 
