Kolkata: Charuchandra College in south Kolkata on Wednesday decided to resume classes on Thursday after the authorities were forced to suspend classes on Tuesday due to agitations by students’ union on the campus. The decision came after an intervention by education minister Partha Chatterjee. 

 Chatterjee said, “It is a public institute and must be reopened. I have spoken to the chairman of the college’s governing body and asked him to take necessary steps to end the stalemate.”
 
 Students who are not part of any union have been assured that classes will resume on Thursday.
 
 Classes were disrupted on Tuesday after the Trinamool Congress Chhatra Parishad-run students’ union made certain demands and sat on dharna.
 
 “It started after the admission process was completed without any hassle or interference. Some in the students’ union were not happy with this as they felt their control over the process waning. They have been attempting to create a stalemate ever since,” a teacher said. 
 
 “On Tuesday, the students began a sit-in demonstration over an issue that doesn’t concern them. This continued for seven hours and several teachers were not allowed to leave,” the teacher added.
 
 Administrative work was disrupted and important documents remained strewn inside offices during the agitation. While leaving in the evening, the teachers and a caretaker were manhandled and heckled. Later, the assistant commissioner of police from Tollygunge rushed to the college and rescued them.
 
 The furious teachers then staged a protest throughout the night. Principal Satrajit Ghosh said “They were later shifted to somebody’s home nearby. There was a terminally ill staffer among the teachers.” 
 
 Getting no support from the state education department or Calcutta University, the board had decided on Wednesday to discontinue classes indefinitely.
 
 The College was opened at 5pm only to be closed again at 5.15pm as the working hours were over. 
 
 “A meeting of the governing body will be convened soon to take representations from the students, teachers and authorities,” a college source said.
 
 
