Discussions around India having its own size chart have been doing the rounds since 2006, but it was only until recently that   (NIFT) announced that India will finally have its own size chart by 2021. After 14 countries successfully completing national sizing surveys, India will be among countries like USA, Canada, Mexico and US to have its own standardized size chart. A group of professors and teachers from  , Delhi, has already started working on a survey, under the aegis of the ministry of textiles. As part of the research, 25,000 men and women from across six major cities will be measured using 3-D whole body scanners. "The Indian apparel industry uses size charts that are tweaked versions of the ones from other countries and are made out of the manufacturer's instinct and experience, than proven scientific study. This usually results in fits, which leave a lot to be desired. 

  
  
 
 Providing well-fitted garments in the absence of a standardized size chart is proving to be a big challenge for the domestic textile and apparel industry. India is attempting to undertake its own anthropometric survey to take care of disparities and inconsistencies in apparel sizing systems and provided fits," says  , a professor from the department of fashion technology, NIFT, Delhi, and a principle investigator of the project. The India size chart will not only help Indian buyers identify their accurate size, but will also serve as a blueprint for designers and retailers in catering to Indian customers better. Most women are already looking forward to the chart as they think it might help in "breaking stereotypes around ideal body type and will also make online shopping easier."
 
  
   , second runner-up, Oppo Delhi Times Fresh Face 2016 and a second year student of Bharati Vidyapeeth Institute Of Management and Research, shows us how troublesome it is for Indian women to find their sizes
 
 'People get into the rut of dieting to fit into clothes designed for mannequins'
 
  Though the project is still in its initial stage, women are already hoping that it will help break stereotypes around ideal body shape and structure. "For most women, shopping often ends up being a depressing experience as they can never find what they like in their size. So, to fit into clothes of that size, they try to achieve that size. If there's a size chart that keeps in mind the shapes and structures of Indian women, it will be easier for them to identify their size. Even retailers can provide clothes as per that measurement, not as per the measurement of the mannequins," says  , a NIFT student and winner of OPPO Delhi Times Fresh Face 2017. Even models, who are mostly envied for their perfect bodies, have to go through several fitting sessions before each show because some designers design according to the US and UK size charts, and those clothes mostly end up fitting just mannequins. 
 
  
  Seemran Pookulangara, winner OPPO Delhi Times Fresh Face 2017
 
  
  
 
 "Nobody is a mannequin size, so why design as per that size?," asks model and first runner-up of Femina Miss India 2011 Hasleen Kaur. "No two Indian women's body structures are the same. I often fluctuate between UK size 6 and 8 because of my hips and if one thinks that models would fit into any clothes easily, they are wrong. I always have to go through rounds of alterations before every show just because some designers design as per the US or UK size. Indian women's bottoms are usually heavy and the UK and US size charts are for average US and UK structures. When women here don't fit in those sizes, they get into the rut of dieting. I think that once women find clothes that are designed keeping in mind their size and body structure, a lot would change in how Indian women choose to dress and how they want to dress," adds Hasleen.
 
  
  Hasleen Kaur, model
 
  
  
 
  Noopur says that they identify varying body structures in India as one of the challenges to be overcome in future, after completing the survey and coming up with a size chart that might cater to 60-80% women. "We will have different shape assessments at the end of the project. When you talk about body shapes, this is primarily the ratio between the bust, waist, hip and thigh, so once we get the data, we will be able to analyse how Indian women are fitting into those classic descriptions of body shapes. Currently, since we have not started the exercise, we are following the understanding of the West. For us to understand Indian body shapes, we need to undertake the survey and post that, we can talk about Indian body shapes as styling of the garment also depends on the body type you have. The other thing that we have to keep in mind is that the body shape and structure in India varies from region to region. The US has the same challenge of ethnicity as in India, but just like the US has managed to come up with its own size chart, we can also have a size chart that will address 60-80% of the population. Once we have the data, the next step is understanding body structures and coming up with a more specific size chart with variations," says Anand.
 
  
  
 
 'Most women can't order online, just because they don't know their exact size'
 
  At a time when designers and retailers are shifting towards online shows and are tying up with online platforms to extend their reach, there are shoppers who can't order their favourite dress online because they don’t know their exact size. Model  , who often shops online, says that because of her height, she is very particular when choosing tops, shirts and dresses online and she can't even think of buying Indian clothes that are mostly categorized in a broad category of small, medium and large, online. "Even when I choose Indian wear from retail chain stores, I need rounds of alterations to finally find the perfect fit. Small, medium and large is a broad category and Indian women hardly find a size that would perfectly fit them. Most of them have to go for alterations," says Sonalika. 
 
  
  Sonalika Sahay, model
 
  
  
 
 Mariyam Khan, a second year student of Bharati Vidyapeeth Institute Of Management and Research (BVIMR), says that she is always sceptical about shopping online because different brands have different measurements for small, large and medium. "For example, I would fit into small of one brand, but would need medium of another brand. In the absence of uniform Indian size charts, every retailer keeps the size that sells the most online. If you are not that size, it will be very difficult for you to shop online," says Mariyam. For some, who are shopping from international brands online, the problem is that their small or medium would be as per what sells in their country. "If one does not follow a UK or US size chart and goes by the small, medium or large as listed on the web page of a brand that's based in Singapore, for example, their large might be of same measurement as the small that is available here. So you need to have some expertise in scanning details of measurement that are listed alongside a product while ordering it, else you should not. If there is a globally accepted Indian size chart, it would be a lot easy to shop online," says  , a marketing professional.
 
  
  
 
 'Most international luxury brands sell selected products in India because designs are as per UK or US size charts'
 
  If you wonder why can't you find the same dress that you saw in a store in Europe at the same brand’s store in India, there's a reason for it. Most international luxury brands have selected pieces for sale in India. Even if you choose one of them and want a customisation, you might have to depend on your boutique owner for that. 'A European brand would obviously design as per European size charts and body structures that often fail to fit Indian women. Indian women find problems with the length of the dress and the neckline. Most luxury brands sell limited designs in short dresses because the length is not appropriate for Indian women. Same goes for the neckline. Not everyone is comfortable with a plunging neckline and when dresses are designed keeping in mind European body shapes and heights, that's another problem. Customisation is rarely possible in these dresses and if at all one does get them customised, the entire appeal is lost," says  , who works as a client relation and communication manager with a luxury lifestyle brand. 
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
