KOCHI: Aluva East police arrested an autodriver for alleged attempt to sexually assault his 11-year-old neighbour.. 

 The accused, identified as Joseph Devassy (50), a resident of Umankuzhitadam near Aluva attempted to sexually assault the girl multiple times in the past several months, said police.
 
 He used to lure her to his house by offering sweets and toys and attempted to sexually assault her several times. The girl revealed her ordeal during a counselling session at her school. The school authorities intimated her parents and later a case was lodged at the Aluva East police station.
 
 The accused was arrested on Tuesday evening and was produced before a local court which remanded him in judicial custody.
 
  Woman arrested for cheating: City police arrested a woman who tricked a 78-year-old woman into giving away her two-and-a-half sovereign gold chain at Kaloor on February 16. The accused was identified as   (50), of Kalavoor in Kottayam. Police said she had approached the victim Elsi Xavier, a resident of Kaloor while she was returning home after offering prayers at Kaloor Church. 
 
 "The accused told the woman that she looked like her mother. The woman believed her as the accused gifted her a 'gold chain'. The accused then borrowed the woman's chain on the promise of returning it back after showing its design to her mother. Later, the victim realized that the woman gifted her rolled gold when she felt itchiness around her neck.
 
 She then filed a complaint with the   police. Police caught her husband Sunoj later when he tried to sell the chain at a jewel shop in the city. The woman along with her children were hiding at different places by renting out houses and police found visuals of her approaching the victim from the CCTV of the church.
 
 Also, an alert message seeking help in locating her was posted on social media along with her picture. She was later tracked through her mobile number and was arrested on Wednesday. Police said that she had tricked various persons in a similar manner earlier.
 
 
