Want the latest buzz on the gossip front? A peep into the lives of the rich and famous? A wind of Chennai’s best-kept secrets? Writer, activist, anchor, and queen bee   fills you in with all that and then some in this  .

 
 True to her profession as an etiquette consultant, Kavita Modi shone at a recent destination wedding. The lady, who hardly promotes herself, we understand, offers etiquette lessons to top politicians, brides-to-be and women from well-heeled homes from across TN. She seldom talks about it, but we hear she’s been approached even by the wife of a top IAS official, who wants her husband to have a makeover for his birthday. Also, when women have had makeup necessities that can’t be fulfilled by city professionals, it is Kavita who lends a helping hand as her home is stocked with the best from around the world.
 
  
 
 Who is Arun Jaitley’s favourite hotelier in town? It seems new-to-the-city  , the GM of a yet-to-be-launched hotel, played host to the country’s union minister at the hotel’s plush private dining area. The menu that was vegetarian consisted of the choicest paneer and rice preparations. Sources say it was a private dinner — the first time with eight people — and Mr Jaitley liked it so much that he returned in a matter of weeks for evening tea with 12 members. 
 
  
 
 Actress and talent promoter, Suhasini Maniratnam, everyone knows, is very passionate about her NGO, Naam. Often working with acid-attack victims and abandoned women, she found it a challenge to rehabilitate and shelter these ladies. So, we hear she’s built a super slick structure with containers that have been given colourful touches on the exterior by none other than Thota Tharani. The art displayed inside has been specially gifted to her by sugar baroness and the lady behind India Design Forum, Rajshree Pathy. The expansive structure looks like a slick corporate office straight out of New York’s skyline. 
 
  
 
 These hot mommas are seriously giving both, men and women, sleepless nights. From three-hour workouts that include rowing, tennis and trekking each day, to tucking into desserts, they do it all with equal aplomb. Shreevidhya, the head honcho of Sherwood Hall school, Sujata Vijay, the lead lady behind Bamboola and Suma Jayaraj, the beautiful wife of Harris Jayaraj are sporting terrific bods. Suma, in fact, documents each meal of hers to inspire her close friends and followers. A steady legion of hot-blooded young men log into their Facebook religiously and say their morning prayers (compliments) to these divas. 
 
  
 
 Nina Kothari, who hosted a magnificent concert recently in memory of her late husband, we are told, is humble and refuses to let overt praises and flattery sway her. During the concert, when some guests referred to her as Nina Ambani, as she’s Dhirubai’s daughter, she casually referred to herself as Nina Kothari. Not flaunting her big-daddy roots or her illustrious legacy is what makes her a much-liked lady about town. Despite her mother Kokilaben and some very high-profile guests being there, she focused entirely on her husband’s memory and was often seeing glancing lovingly at his photos on stage. 
 
 
 This sultry actress, we hear, is quite the cat. After her appearance alongside Suriya in  , this lass has become a regular on the social circle. According to sources, this young lady knows exactly when to give the lurking lads a slip. At an event in the city, she struck up a conversation with a bunch of people she had never met before. Once the group started getting ‘cozy’ and some men started making very ‘flattery’ comments, she excused herself to grab a glass of water and left the venue. Unlike some new starlets, who forcefully give in to such advances, she has learnt to give some men a kick in the rear with her disarming smile and spontaneous excuses we hear. Good for you, girl! 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
