BHUBANESWAR: The bypoll for Bijepur assembly constituency concluded peacefully on Saturday with no untoward incident reported from anywhere, chief electoral officer (CEO)   said. 

 The only unpleasant incident related to the CEO suspending a presiding officer for trying to influence   in favour of a particular party.
 
 Till 5pm, around 72% people had voted in the byelection which would be remembered more for its bitter campaigning. But the high-voltage   run by the BJD and the BJP didn't seem to have its desired effect on the voters with the polling percentage being far less than the 80.24 % registered in 2014.
 
 Bargarh collector Yamini Sarangi said the percentage may go up as polling was still not over in some booths. As per provision, whoever makes it to the booth before 5pm is allowed to cast vote.
 
 Given the fact that half a dozen Union ministers, most of the state ministers, around 70 MLAs and prominent film personalities had made a beeline for Bijepur ahead of the poll, it was expected the voting percentage would be higher this time.
 
 "But the comparatively low turnout amid the high-decibel campaign shows people's rising unhappiness with the political parties. It shows growing apathy," said  , a retired professor of political science at Utkal University.
 
 Mishra, a retired professor of political science at Utkal University, said even if the turnout touches 80%, it would be considered unimpressive given the high-octane campaign. 
 
 All eyes would now be on the results on February 28. The electronic voting machines (EVMs) were shifted to the strongroom at Anchal College, Padampur, where they would be kept till counting. Bijepur has an electorate of 2.21 lakh. Political analysts feel whoever pockets more than 70,000 votes should emerge winner.
 
 "People have great love for my husband (Subal Sahu) and faith in chief minister Naveen Patnaik. They have blessed me for that," said BJD candidate Rita Sahu whose husband and sitting Congress MLA Subal's death in August necessitated the byelection.
 
 BJP's Ashok Panigrahy said people have voted for him because of Narenda Modi's good works and 18 years of non-performance of the Naveen Patnaik government. Pranay Sahu of the Congress said people were dejected with both the BJP and the BJD and the money and muscle power they displayed during campaigning.
 
