CHENNAI: State electricity minister P   on Thursday said he had stopped using his mobile phone as he had been receiving   calls since Tuesday, ever since he had an argument with rebel leader T T V Dhinakaran on the Sterlite issue in the state  . 

 An argument broke out between Thangamani and Dhinakaran on Tuesday soon after the debate on Sterlite began in the assembly, with the latter accusing the minister of not giving him due respect while addressing him in the House. This led to an argument, ending with Dhinakaran walking out of the House in a huff. 
 
 Speaking to reporters later, Dhinakaran had referred rather derogatorily to Thangamani as ‘Tasmac Thangamani’ and spoke about the argument between him and the minister inside the assembly. “There are some people, with no public stature, criticising the government,” the minister retorted on Thursday in his reply to the debate on grants for the electricity department.
 
 “People in my constituency and district, my colleagues, God, and above all Amma (Jayalalithaa) know me well and what kind of person I am. But a person whose family owns a distillery is calling me ‘Tasmac Thangamani’. I am not daunted by these (threat) calls and I know what action should be taken,” said Thangamani. He said Dhinakaran and all other opposition parties are criticising the government on various issues to bring disrepute to it.
 
  “In the last one year, the AIADMK government under Palaniswami has achieved a lot, be it in bringing an end to all Cauvery cases pending for several decades, closing down Sterlite factory in Tuticorin or dealing efficiently the impact of cyclones like Ockhi,” said Thangamani. 
 
 The minister said several steps were taken for the sake of power consumers in the last one year. “It is only after Palaniswami took charge, a scheme to give power connection within a day was launched and so far 3.15 lakh new power connections have been given. The government launched the SMS scheme by which consumers will get to know power shutdown schedules,” he said. 
 
 The minister said several schemes were launched to woo investors into the state. “Thanks to digitisation, nearly 24% consumers are paying bills worth Rs 500 crore through various online channels,” he said. It is finally for the people to judge whether this government should continue or go, the minister said.
 
 
