NEW DELHI: The   said on Monday that it would not "shy away" from directing an independent probe into the alleged suspicious death of CBI judge BH  , who was conducting the trial in the Sohrabuddin fake encounter case in which BJP chief   was discharged, if it had the slightest suspicion over the circumstances leading to the demise.

 On an argument by the petitioner, the Bombay Lawyers' Association, that there was a deliberate attempt to remove Justice Revati Mohite-Dere of the Bombay high court from hearing appeals in the Sohrabuddin case, the apex court said questions should not be raised as the change in the roster was a "routine" affair which is in accordance with the established tradition there, according to a PTI report.
 
 "It is a routine affair in the Bombay high court which is part of its established tradition there. Every 8-10 weeks the roster changes and no judges are allowed to hear a part-heard matter," said a bench comprising Chief Justice Dipak Misra and Justices A M Khanwilkar and D Y Chandrachud, the report said.
 
 The bench allayed the apprehension that the court was trying to "wish away" the numerous coincidences and circumstances surrounding the "untimely" demise of the judge but said that the probe could be ordered only if the reports and evidences satisfied their judicial conscience.
 
 "We are not going to wish away anything. But we must have complete documentary proof. If we have the slightest suspicion then we would direct a probe in the case," the bench said when senior advocate Dushyant Dave, appearing for the Bombay Lawyers' Association, contended that the SC should not "oversimplify" the coincidences surrounding the death and a fresh probe be ordered to find out the truth.
 
 The court's remarks followed a heated exchange of words between Dave and senior advocate Harish Salve and additional solicitor general Tushar Mehta after they objected to the allegations made by the petitioner against two sitting judges of the Bombay HC who were accompanying Loya on the fateful day.
 
 Dave alleged that the trial and HC judges hearing the Sohrabuddin fake encounter case were being "punished" for standing in the way and other judges were being awarded for toeing the line of influential accused involved in the case. He also asked why the sitting HC judges gave an interview to a newspaper refuting any allegation of foul play in Loya's death immediately after a news magazine published a story.
 
 Raising an objection, Salve and Mehta said it was not proper to make allegations against the judges and asked the court to restrain Dave.
 
 Dave, however, got infuriated and said that Mehta had been a lawyer of Amit Shah for the last 15 years and Salve had also appeared in the Sohrabuddin case. "Sitting judges are not holy cows and Salve had no problem with judges giving interviews. In fact, Salve should not be allowed to stand up in the case. You are a leading light and you should have objected to it first," he said.
 
 Dave went further and without naming anyone alleged that "one man is controlling the entire judiciary". The court, however, took strong exception to his submission and asked him to resist from making such unfounded allegations.
 
 Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for the Maharashtra government, also pitched in and said the petition was mala fide and the idea behind it was not to save the judiciary, as claimed by the petitioner, but to raise baseless allegations.
 
 Continuing with his submission, Dave contended that the apex court had intervened in many cases to protect the rights of people and pointed out that the court had stayed proceedings against an Army officer in the Shopian firing case and pleaded with the bench to step in on the Loya case also to put the controversy to rest once and for all. "It is a blot on the independent judiciary and democracy of the country. All efforts were made to scuttle any move for an independent probe. I dare say that the court interacts with the family members of the judge in chamber to come to any conclusion."
 
 
