Around this time last year, he was thrilled to be one of the 22 participants in  . Nobody thought   would last more than a week, but three months on, the AC Guards boy defied all odds to end up as the runner-up to Shweta Mehta. Then he went on to win   10 in December last year, again proving his detractors wrong. And when he found himself in the nominations list for Hyderabad Times Most Desirable Man of 2017 a couple of months later, it seemed like a big achievement in itself, confesses Baseer, who did the unthinkable again by beating the biggest Tollywood hotties to become Hyderabad Times Most Desirable Man of 2017. “I can’t believe this. It feels like I’m on ‘cloud infinity’ right now. OMG!,” screamed a delighted Baseer Ali as he settled down for a chat with Hyderabad Times. Excerpts... 

 
 
 I can’t express in words what I’m feeling right now. It feels like I’m literally on top of the world. Firstly, I’m just 22 and barely a year old in the glamour world. So initially, when I saw myself being nominated along with big names like Mahesh Babu, Prabhas, Rana Daggubati, Nagarjuna, etc., on the poll list, I went bonkers thinking who am I even competing with? Trust me, I wasn’t even expecting to win. it was a huge achievement and a matter of pride for me to just be on the voting list along with all these big names who have entertained us for years. I still can’t believe I’ve won it!
 
 
 Well, I’m not just a common guy. I have this X factor — it’s a combination of aura, body language, personality and self-confidence that makes me different from others. I think, that’s what makes me desirable. When 
 people meet me for the first time, they might not think much about me but if they have a long conversation with me, they’ll surely say ‘This guy is different’. If there are 100 boys in a room, I’m sure I’ll be the ‘different one’ jo baki 99 se bilkul alag hai. That’s exactly what happened in the two shows I’ve done, Roadies Rising and Splitsvilla 10, where I went on to become the first runner-up and winner respectively. In Roadies finale, I was competing with a girl while in Splitsvilla, I was competing with crowd favourites like  , who’s become a big sensation now after his stint in Bigg Boss Season 11. So after my win, a lot of my fans told me that they liked the fact that I always stood for what was right. in fact thousands of fans wrote to me saying I was the rightful candidate who deserved to win. 
 
 
 I think, desirability has a lot to do with where you start from and where you end up. How efficient you are and how much time you take to succeed. In my head, a guy who was a nobody to start with and becomes somebody on his own steam, is desirable. When he stands, everyone will look up to him. Somebody like Ranveer Singh who’s an all-rounder — best entertainer in Bollywood, has his own fashion statement and most importantly, he’s a people’s man. 
 
 
 Oh yes! Since I was a child, I’ve lived by my fashion mantra: ‘I don’t do fashion, I am fashion’. When I would step out of house, I’d see what everyone else is wearing and try to stand out. If people are wearing checks, I would wear stripes, and when everyone is wearing stripes, I’d go for a plain white shirt. I have this compulsive urge to always look and be different from the rest of the world. So, if the whole world is doing x, I will do y. Whether I will be in glamour industry or not, my fashion sense is something that will never change. It is what makes me who I am, that makes me confident. 
 As for my sartorial preferences, I am an avid fan of street wear and I mostly customise my own stuff. When you go out of house, remember you are setting an example for somebody, you need to be ready because somewhere, somebody is observing you or learning from you. I remember, I wore golden shoes for the auditions of Roadies and that got me so much attention. Who wears golden bling shoes? I did and it was the most talked about thing and a plus point for me. Can you even imagine that!?
 
 
 A lot of things, but what’s most important is how she strikes a balance between her career and family. These days youngsters have forgotten our basic sanskriti and culture. So for me a girl who is successful and is rooted to her family would attract me. She has to be somebody who’s the sweetest daughter, a beautiful wife, good friend and most importantly, a supportive woman. Coming to desirability quotient, first thing I notice about a girl are her feet. Because a girl’s feet can speak volumes about how she maintains herself and the kind of footwear she wears speaks about her fashion sense. So if her feet are attractive, I’m gonna fall for her then and there. Besides the feet, what I find most appealing is how a girl wears her hair. 
 
 
 Definitely! in fact, among the fan base I have, there are three crazy fans in particular who stand out — two girls, one from Delhi and other from North East, and a boy from Gwalior — they have tattooed my name on their bodies. One girl has the tattoo in the inner side of her wrist, the other girl has it on the back side of her right shoulder and the boy got the tattoo on his bicep. They keep sending me the pictures and it’s crazy!
 
 
 Yes. What I am today, at least 5 per cent of it is to show her that ‘you missed out on something big’! I was a 17-year-old when I was dating her and she belonged to a rich family. So she had that ego that comes with being rich and would tell me often — ‘You are never going anywhere in life. Give me one year and I’ll be a fashion designer, but you’ll have your same old life, running around girls on your bike and all that’. Such words hurt me a lot and finally in 2016 we broke-up. it’s been more than a-year-and-half now. That was the last time we spoke and recently I got to know that she’s getting married to the boy she dumped me for. Anyway, I’m happy where I am today — on the top. 
 
 
 Yes, I’m looking for a good girl because right now I am too stressed with so many things happening in my life. I don’t have anyone to share my life with. Sometimes I’m sitting in an airport with my headphones on, listening to music, but have nobody to call and talk about things I want to. Having said that, I’m also very choosy. Trust me, I don’t have an image of what kind of a girl I want, but I need to have a strong connection with her for sure. It can be anyone then. It’s simple, the girl has to understand me. Even if we’re standing in the middle of a party among 100 people, the moment we look into each other’s eyes we must know what’s going on in each other’s mind. I want that kind of connection. 
 
 
 A lot is happening in life now. I am taking part in a cricket league and I’m also anchoring a show to promote fashion brands. But that’s not something that will satisfy me, I want to be a superstar like Ranveer Singh, may be even greater than him, but nothing less!
 
 
 If I try to enter the film industry now, everyone will say ‘Yeh toh abhi baccha hai’. I don’t want filmmakers to see me now and reject me, I want them to run behind me and for that I need to prepare myself. I’m 65 kilos; I need to gain 15-20 kgs and be 80 plus. I want that star personality and look. I want to work on my body and personality. I want to live up to the titles I have won and thus, want to change my look, grow my hair long. The good thing is that I have time — I’m 22 now, by the time I turn 24, I’ll be more muscular. 
 
