KOCHI: As part of the efforts to reduce cases of oral and lung cancer,   Cancer Research Centre (CCRC) authorities are planning to sensitize students, various law enforcement agencies and members of judiciary against usage of  . The   is planning to adopt a three-prong strategy of treatment, prevention and research for fighting cancer. 

 
 As per a study conducted by Voice of Tobacco Victims, a Delhi -based   in 2016, the age of initiation into tobacco usage has come down to 10 from 18 in the 1980s. "So, classes will be given to children in the upper primary classes. Creating awareness against tobacco usage will prevent initiation in to the world of tobacco. The CCRC doctors along with social workers holding MBA will give classes to the students. We plan to start the classes in August-September," said Dr P G  , superintendent, CCRC.
 
  "We will also give classes to media, judges, advocates, police and officials with excise department. Sensitizing law enforcing agencies and judiciary would see strict action in tobacco related cases," he said. 
 
 "Tobacco victims also will talk at these meetings. We expect that sharing their experience will encourage the law enforcing agencies to act strictly against illegal trade of tobacco," Balagopal said.
 
 The CCRC authorities have already started cancer survey in the surrounding local bodies of the centre. The CCRC authorities have trained Accredited Social Health Activities (Asha) and Kudumbashree workers to conduct the survey. 
 
 Based on the survey report, a registry of vulnerable patients as well as those suffering from lifestyle diseases will be prepared. 
 
 The survey works in Kalamassery municipality is progressing and it would be extended to other local bodies later. 
 
 Based on the details of vulnerable people identified by Asha and Kudumbashree, technical staff of CCRC would conduct tests to identify cancer patients. 
 
 Later, all the data would be compiled, and a registry would be prepared. 
 
 The registry will be helpful while designing facilities to be offered as well as procuring equipment required for diagnosis and treatment at CCRC. It will also help the research activities at the CCRC.
 
 
