Having courted controversy for over a month now, thanks to the casting couch allegations brought forth by actress Sri Reddy, the Movie Artistes Association (MAA) might have thought they will get some much needed respite in the US, where they were slated to bring in their silver jubilee with a grand celebration in  . But that was not to be! 
On Saturday, MAA members and   Chiranjeevi, who was the chief guest of the event, were in for a rude shock when they were faced with boos by a group of Andhra Pradesh Non-resident Indians (NRIs), who staged a protest questioning the film industry’s silence on the issue of special category status for Andhra Pradesh.
 “It is clear that the interests of the Telugu film industry are only in Telangana. They don’t care about what happens to Andhra — as long as they are minting crores, they are happy,” a protester exclaimed, sarcastically.
 
 
 
 The protesting NRIs had one major bone of contention — that the Telugu film industry is apathetic. Unlike their counterparts in Tamil Nadu, Tollywood seldom unites on any issue along with the rest of the state, they pointed out. 
 “In Tamil Nadu, the film industry raised its voice about issues like Jallikattu and Cauvery and stood firmly with the rest of the state. They even held back the release of films in protest and in order to show solidarity with the rest of the state. But no such reaction from Tollywood. Why is the Telugu film industry silent on special status for AP?” asked another protester.
 The United States is a big market for Tollywood filmmakers, given that it has a large Telugu population. Filmmakers usually organise preview shows of big releases — the latest being Rangasthalam and Bharat AneNenu — in the US, a day before its release in India. Claiming that a big bulk of their business comes from Telugu NRIs, they pointed out: “We go stand in line and contribute towards their multi-crore success, but when there is an issue that concerns the people, they don’t want to speak a word. Is this how they return the favour?” 
 
 
 
 
 It was not long before the protests on the streets spilled over to social media, where things escalated and turned into a caste war between Chiranjeevi supporters and protesters. Chiru fans claimed that this was neither the time nor the place to stage such a protest and that it was a deliberate attempt to target the ‘Megastar’.
 “How come these IT professionals have such high level caste biased itch in minds, by protesting against EX MP of #india #Chiranjeevidallas 
 just to defame him? @realDonaldTrumpshud sent back these itchy Techies out of #usa @USAndMumbai @USAndHyderabad @PMOIndia @PawanKalyan (sic),” a Twitter user commented.
 “This obsession with caste is disgusting. They are only targeting Chiranjeevi. Monna Balakrishnao chinapududhairyamcheyyaledu.. kodthaadani bhayama? Flight ticket teeskoniHindupurlo Balayyainti munducheyandi protest (Why didn’t you protest when Balakrishna had come? Were you afraid he will hit you? Why don’t you take a flight to Hindupur and protest outside Balayya’s house?” commented Venkat KP, a pro-Chiru user. 
 The fight also took a political turn, with people asking what Chiranjeevi had done as a former MP. “He was in power during bifurcation. What did he do for the welfare of the state? He had not raised his voice for the people of Andhra and now he is not speaking up about special status,” said Vijay H, another social media user.
 
 
 
 
 Even as the group of protesters shouted slogans outside the Allen Event Centre in Dallas, where MAA silver jubilee celebrations were taking place, the association chose to ignore the issue altogether. When Hyderabad Times contacted the MAA office, a committee member who didn’t want to be quoted, said, “I am aware of the issue but I’m not authorised to speak about it. Senior MAA members will respond once they are back from the celebrations.”
 
 
 
