BENGALURU: The voter turnout on Saturday may hold the key to the outcome of the elections, which increasingly looks like a triangular fight between  , BJP and JD(S).

 
 Interestingly, analysts differ over which of the three parties will benefit from an increase in voter turnout. “Higher turnout indicates more middle class coming out to vote. In many elections, it has indirectly benefitted the BJP,” some BJP leaders claim.
 
 Sandeep Shastri, a political analyst disagrees. “There is no empirical evidence to prove that higher turnout favours either the incumbent or the challenger. It would depend on the class. Higher voter turnout among the poor would be good news for the Congress and a higher turnout among the upper middle class and more affluent may favour the BJP’’   saw a record turnout of 71.45% in the May 2013 assembly elections which resulted in a majority for Congress and BJP and JD(S) relegated to insignificance. Bengaluru saw a turnout of 57.63%. In the 2014 Lok Sabha polls, Karnataka saw a voting turnout of 67.75%, which was far less compared to the assembly polls.
 
 Both BJP and Congress leaders agree turnout is important. “The key to this election is the turnout. In the last two or three elections we saw a varying trend in the turnout,’’ said BJP spokesperson C H Ashwathnarayan Gowda.
 
 Political parties have expressed fears that voters may not turn up on Saturday as it is a weekend and it has been raining over the last three days in several parts of the state.
 
 “This picture of few people turning up to vote has left me worried. I am going to hire a few taxis to transport voters to polling booths with the help of my supporters. ," said a JD(S) candidate contesting in Mandya. “I have deployed a few supporters to move from one home to another, pleading with residents to turn up in big numbers and vote," said a Congress candidate contesting from a constituency in  .
 
 A BJP candidate in   said he has promised free lunch plus Rs 500 for those who come from Bengaluru or Mysuru to vote. “Many candidates have booked private and KSRTC buses to enable voters to travel free to their native places to vote," sources said.
 
 To increase voter awareness and turnout, the EC had launched a month-long Systematic Voter’s Education and Electoral Participation programme (SVEEP). It also got cricketer   to encourage voters to come out in large numbers. “Through these measures, we are hoping the turnout would be higher by 2-3 percent this time," said Karnataka chief electoral officer Sanjiv Kumar.
 
