BENGALURU: A   was abducted from its master’s home in south Bengaluru on January 28, sending its owner and the cops into a tizzy. A week later, the dog, ‘Babloo’, surfaced in  , walking into a police station behind a stranger, with no sign of its abductors. A couple of phone calls and the prized pet returned home the next day, having travelled 100km in eight days and leaving cops to join the dots.

 Babloo, four-and-a-half years old, went missing from retired KAS officer Krishna YB’s home in   II on the night of January 28. Krishna filed a police complaint the next day, saying unidentified miscreants had abducted his pet. CCTV footage from nearby buildings showed two bike-borne men carrying Babloo away. While the rider offered biscuits, the pillion rider grabbed Babloo with both hands and put the dog on his lap before speeding away.
 
 “Preliminary investigation revealed that an autorickshaw driver, Ravindra alias Ravi of Girinagar VII phase, would regularly pamper Babloo whenever he passed the road. A police team reached his house on January 30 but found the door locked,” a police officer said.
 
 Meanwhile, Krishna issued an advertisement in Kannada dailies and on cable channels and announced a prize for finding Babloo. The advertisement appeared on February 1, police said. Nothing happened for two days. Krishna hoped against hope.
 
 On February 3 morning, Umesh Bhat, a priest from Buchanahalli village near Doddaballapura, walked into the Doddaballapura rural police station, followed by Babloo. “When the priest walked in, we thought he had come on some work. But we were shocked to see a dog tailing him. Asked whether it was his dog, the priest said it was a stolen dog and some miscreants had left it near his house the previous night,” a Doddaballapura police source said.
 
 “Bhat said he saw the advertisement on TV and gave us the contact numbers. We then contacted Girinagar police and explained the situation. One of our staff sent a picture of Babloo to Girinagar police on WhatsApp and they confirmed it was the missing dog,” the source said.
 
 Venkatesh Kumar, assistant sub-inspector at Doddaballapura rural police station, volunteered to look after Babloo till its master arrived. “That night I took Babloo to my home and family members were happy to see him. They were not ready to part with him the next morning,” Kumar said.
 
 Krishna reached Doddaballapura police station on February 4 and it was an emotional reunion. “I cannot put it in words. I was anxious to meet Babloo. He was sitting in a corner and when I walked in, he suddenly rushed at me. Everyone in the police station was silently watching us. We were both elated on seeing each other. My sincere thanks to the cops,” Krishna told TOI.
 
 The next day, police arrested Ravindra. “He confessed to having stolen the dog. Ravindra and his friend drove Babloo to Doddaballapura and handed the dog to another friend there,” a police officer said. “The friend who took Babloo, however, became nervous on seeing the advertisements on TV and knowing that the cops were on the lookout. This friend abandoned the dog near Umesh Bhat’s house. We are yet to identify the friend,” police said. 
 
