CHANDIGARH: For the last many years, the government school students have not been performing well. Many are of the belief that the UT education department’s failure to recruit and promote teachers in government schools after 1992 is one of the major reasons why the students of the government schools are not faring well.

 While the number of students has doubled after the upgradation of government schools to senior secondary schools, the number of teachers has only dropped. Many of them have either left or retired. There is a requirement of almost 600 teachers. However, till date the education department has 400 sanctioned seats out of which 55 are lying vacant.
 
 The schools have been managing with guest lecturers, junior basic trained (JBTs) teacher and trained graduate teachers (TGTs), who are also imparting education to the students of senior classes. This has affected the quality of results, too.
 
  It is only one and half years ago that the education department has asked the Center to create 186 posts for lecturers. The approval, however, is still pending. “It was last in 1992 that the education department recruited teachers. Thereafter, no regular lecturer has been recruited. Out of those recruited lecturers, many have retired or left the institutions. Those seats are still lying vacant. TGTs and JBTs are being asked to teach senior classes in addition to their own classes,” said  , president of Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan Teachers Welfare Association, Chandigarh.
 
 “Most of the XI and XII Classes have low student-teacher ratio. Almost every class has around 80 students, which is against the norms of CBSE guidelines,” said  , president of  . He added, “Students of Classes XI and XII are being taught by JBTs, who are not qualified to teach senior classes.,” said Kairon.
 
 Kairon also said they have been raising an alarm regarding the matter since 1993. However, officials kept on changing and no one worked in this direction. “Why did the department send the file to create 186 new posts recently when the problem is more than a decade old?,” he questioned.
 
 A teacher requesting anonymity said that the department is selecting JBTs, TGTs and SSA teachers, who have done masters in a specific subject to teach the particular subject to Class XII students.
 
 
