With only few more hours to go for the Royal Wedding, the   has released the official 'Order of Service' for   and  's wedding ceremony. The programme revealed several details from the highly-anticipated festivities, including a schedule for the royal family's arrivals and the hymns to the vows.

  
  
  
  
 The wedding will take place at  , set in the Lower Ward of Windsor Castle. Prince Harry and Meghan Markle's wedding will start with prayers and will be followed by music.
 
  Kensington Palace released the 'Order of Service' for Harry and Meghan's wedding and the most noticeable element of the document is that Thomas Markle, Meghan's father, is still included as the person who will walk Meghan down the aisle to the high altar of St. George's Chapel. (Although, it was updated by the palace that due to Meghan father's health issue, Prince Charles will walk her down the aisle.)
 
  Prince Harry and Prince William will arrive at 11:40 BST. They'll be followed by Camilla, Duchess of Cornwall, at 11:42 BST, then Doria Ragland, Prince Charles will arrive, followed by the   II, and finally, the bride herself.
 
  The 'Order of Service' states that the American actress has omitted the word 'obey' from her vows following in the footsteps of   and Kate Middleton. The amended vow reads, "I Meghan, take you, Harry, to be my husband, to have and to hold from this day forward; for better, for worse, for richer, for poorer, in sickness and in health, to love and to cherish, till death us do part; according to God's holy law. In the presence of God, I make this vow."
 
  Prince Harry's vows are as follows,"I Harry, take you, Meghan, to be my wife, to have and to hold from this day forward; for better, for worse, for richer, for poorer, in sickness and in health, to love and to cherish, till death us do part; according to God's holy law. In the presence of God, I make this vow."
 
  The service will conclude with a performance of 'Stand by Me' by Karen Gibson and The Kingdom Choir.
 
  Approximately 600 guests, including Prince William, Kate Middleton, and Bollywood actress  , are expected to attend the royal wedding scheduled to take place today. 
 
  
  
 
