GANDHINAGAR: The Centre and the   have allocated Rs 100 crore for Vadnagar, Patan and Modhera tourist circuit. It has also been decided to start a  , which has some  , the Kirti Toran,  , the Tana Riri site and several other historic places. 

 According to a senior state government official, training of local youths as   will begin soon. 
 
 The plan is to include the nearby Buddhist and Jain sites too in the walk. Recently, chief secretary J N Singh went to Vadnagar to take stock of the tourism development work there.
 
 S J Haider, principal secretary, tourism, said, “The new tourist circuit will connect Vadnagar, Taranga, Modhera and Patan. Vadnagar has a rich heritage as it has several several historic sites of Buddhist and Solanki era in just 3-4km radius.”
 
 Haider said that the state government has initiated several development works and redeveloped the Kirti Toran and surrounding areas with financial and technical assistance from the Union government. 
 
 He said several Buddhist heritage sites and other attractions as Sharmistha Lake, Hatkeshwar Temple, Tana Riri site and Pancham Mehta ni Vav have undergone facelift. 
 
 “We are also planning a museum there. 
 
 The Vadnagar circuit will include the famous Taranaga Hills and several Jain and Buddhist temples besides the Vadnagar heritage walk. We will train the local youths as guides to assist the tourists,” said the principal secretary. 
 
 He said the state government and the ministry of railways together plan to develop the Vadnagar railway station where PM Narendra Modi worked as a tea vendor during his school days. 
 
 “The youngsters will get inspiration from this,” said Haider. 
 
 Vadnagar is mentioned often in the Puranas and even in the travelogue of the great Chinese traveller Hieu-en-Tsang (7th century) as a rich and flourishing town. The inscription on the Arjun Bari Gate shows that King Kumarpal fortified the city in 1152 AD. 
 
 Some other names attributed to Vadnagar in history are Chamatkarpur, Anandpur, Snehpur and Vimalpur.
 
 
