PANAJI: The state government will set up a five-member subcommittee to scrutinise projects with a built-up area of more than 2,000sqm on settlement areas as marked in Regional Plan 2021. This follows the government decision to open up the plan for development.

 Town and country planning ( ) department on Monday framed guidelines for considering applications for construction and land development activity in the state. The order on guidelines is likely to be issued on Tuesday.
 
 TCP minister   told TOI, “The committee will comprise representatives from the Indian Institute of Architects, Institution of Engineers and Institute of Town Planners. It will consider and clear projects referred to it by the government.”
 
 Sardesai, on Friday, said that the state government had decided to allow developmental activities in settlement areas, which had been frozen due to RP 2021 being kept in abeyance by the Parrikar-led government a few years back.
 
 The guidelines envisage formation of a four-tiered category to issue technical clearance to projects in settlement areas. Projects with built up area of over 2,000sqm and above have been included in Category IV.
 
 Single family dwellings, those above 500sqm, and others with multi-dwelling units will be cleared under three other categories.
 
 All Category IV projects need to fulfil specific conditions with regard to access to the site as per the requirements of Goa Land Development and Building Construction Regulations, 2010.
 
 “The plot shall be strictly within the permissible slope and shall not be low-lying in nature,” one guideline stated.
 
 In case of a project in which the land falls within permissible slopes, permission has to be obtained simultaneously under Section 17-A of the TCP Act.
 
 “Similarly, if low-lying areas falling in the settlement zone are considered for development, simultaneous clearance under Section 17-A of the Act shall be insisted,” the guidelines state.
 
 Stakeholders and activists, including  , have criticised the government for the move to allow projects selectively in a piecemeal fashion against a background of ambiguity over part applicability of RP 2021. They have called for more transparency in development and people’s participation in planning.
 
 
