GOA: As the   Water Disputes Tribunal moves towards the final hearing, the battle for the river seems to enter a decisive phase. Goa has so far been better prepared, with   still not being able to recover from the 2016 ruling.

 
 However, much water has flown through the Mandovi during the last two years (metaphorically) and politics has taken precedence over principles. In Karnataka, it is has become a major issue during the election year, with unprecedented agitations by farmers groups, political parties, religious leaders and even film stars. In Goa, there has been an uproar over a manifest intention of the government to go for a negotiated settlement to share water for drinking needs. A number of groups have suddenly woken up to the issue, which, for many years, had been on the margins of public imagination. In the interest of the people of both states, it is best if politics is set aside and law be allowed to take its course.
 
 The recent plot, crafted by   president Amit Shah, which appears to have backfired in terms of its electoral value (as the PM chose to keep mum on the Mhadei issue in Bengaluru), some valid issues were lost in the din. While the timing of the exercise may have created a furore, sharing of water for drinking purposes is mandated by law and Goa was not committing to anything unacceptable morally or legally. The manner in which the issue snowballed in both states has enabled a lot of political posturing which is rather unnecessary. There some key issues at stake.
 
 
 Firstly, from Goa’s perspective, the most important consideration is Karnataka’s promises in the tribunal and its actions on ground. Karnataka’s continuing work at Kankumbi despite assurances to the tribunal does not inspire confidence. How can Karnataka then be expected to stick to the ruling and not exceed in case the tribunal does allow a certain amount of diversion?
 
 
 Secondly, Goa needs to convince the tribunal that it is indeed concerned about the hydrological implications of a potential inter-basin transfer, particularly as there are not enough indications on the ground that the state has its own action plan to protect the Mandovi, particularly in its final stretches. It is ironic that the draft state water policy document (2015) makes no mention of the Mandovi masterplan, put together by experts providing a blueprint for the future of Mhadei nearly a decade and a half ago. Goa has to defend its case based more on reason than passion.
 
 
 On the other hand, it has to be recognized that there are parts of north Karnataka reeling under a severe water shortage. Besides, agrarian distress can certainly not be ignored altogether as Karnataka has ranked third highest among states in farmers suicides in recent years.
 
 
 And then there is the politics of it, which may prove to be the real elephant in the room. An M Phil study at Goa University on ‘Politics of Water’ based on a survey in both states found that party politics and public opinion may shape the final outcome. On this count Goa faces a severe disadvantage. It has been a lonely journey for Rajendra Kerkar, the one-man army who has fought the battle for Mhadei on his own for decades and continues to do so, with sparse civil society support and a reluctant government. Karnataka has a louder voice and larger numbers which New Delhi may be tempted to oblige, particularly in the election year.
 
 
 It would therefore be best for Goa and Karnataka to let the law take a final call and be prepared with the arguments based on a combination of passion, reason and caution. Let politics be the mediator not the instigator, as there may be a lot to mediate even after the final print of the verdict comes.
 
 
 The writer teaches political science at Goa University. Views expressed are personal.
 
