HYDERABAD: Despite   directing schools not to hike fees for the academic year 2018-19, parents alleged many schools were asking them to cough up an enhanced amount in the current admission season.

 While parents said the fee hike was in the range of 10%-15%, schools alleged they did not receive any notification from the government prohibiting a fee hike.
 
 
 “I went to Epistemo Global School, Nalagandla, to seek admission for my children for class 2 and 5. I was shocked when the school management mentioned they had hiked the fee by 15% this year. When I questioned them about government direction, they said they did not receive any notification,” said Sachin B, a parent.
 
 Another parent, Sri Latha, whose child is studying in Delhi Public School, Nacharam, said the situation is similar in this school too.
 
 “Parents who are seeking fresh admission are complaining about fee hike. We got to know the school is raising the fee this year, but don’t know the exact figure,” said Sri Latha, parent of a Class 4 student in DPS, Nacharam.
 
 Parents alleged schools like Santa Maria, Open Minds-A Birla School, Nalagandla, CHIREC International, Kondapur too hiked the fee and hoped the notification to reach schools as soon as possible or else it will be too late to be implemented.
 
 On Thursday,   government ordered all schools to maintain statusquo on fee hike for academic year 2018-19.The decision came days after Prof Tirupathi Rao committee submitted its report, recommending an annual fee hike of 10 per cent, which drew flak from parents.
 
 “Admissions started on January 2, 2018 and will be completed by January 12. The fee structure is an important aspect. All private, recognised, unaided schools and aided schools with unaided sections having CBSE/ICSE/IB/Cambridge syllabi as well as state syllabus in the state should maintain status-quo regarding the fee, until further orders. This means the fee already in existence for the academic year, 2017-18 will be continued for academic year 2018-19, till further orders,” stated the  
 
