Phrases like ‘dominant caste’ and ‘vote bank’, now common in every election, were coinages by M N  , India’s foremost sociologist. It’s over 40 years since his classic, The Remembered Village — a study of a village in Mysuru district — was first published
Jayanth.Kodkani@timesgroup.com
 
 A few days after Mahatma Gandhi was assassinated on January 30, 1948, sociologist M N Srinivas visited   in Mysore district to start field work for a study on the social structure of the village. To his surprise, the residents asked him to come back after the thirteenth day of mourning. The young Srinivas wondered whether the villagers were putting him off, but then he learnt that they were only trying to persuade him to start his project after the commemoration of the leader’s death.
 
 Srinivas came later, with a cook and 26 pieces of luggage, stayed for 11 months to accustom himself with its social set-up and cultural tradition. He made a few more visits thereafter and finally in 1978, published a monograph of the village, titled The Remembered Village – considered an all-time classic in ethnography. Kodagahalli, situated about 34 km from Mysuru city, is indeed Rampura of the book. Many names of people and places in the book aren’t real ones.
 
 
 Of Rampura, Srinivas had heard that it was a multicaste unit, ‘progressive’ and free from factional politics. But as he was to discover, these qualities had only relative merit. He was to point out the importance of caste loyalties in electoral politics, apart from the influence of ‘dominant caste’ groups. It was while explaining the idea of such patronage that Srinivas coined the term ‘vote bank’, now used in a much wider context.
 
 Yet, the secret ballot allowed other choices. Soon after Independence, the Dalits were also becoming an organized unit. An official among them, who was not popular with the Vokkaligas and other major groups, contested the 1952 assembly election as a Praja Socialist Party candidate. The headman, Srinivas writes, backed another Dalit who was a Congress candidate, and even ferried voters to the polling booth. But the headman was startled to note that the official had won the election.
 
 Kodagahalli today is still described as relatively progressive and ‘disciplined’. In its demography, the past and present seem to be umbilical to each other: it still has over a dozen caste groups with the Vokkaligas in greater number, apart from 18 Muslim families; the Dalit houses are in a separate cluster. The population, though, has grown from 1,523 when Srinivas stayed here to over 5,000 in 800 homes. About 2,400 voters decide the fate of political candidates. The panchayat now comprises seven members, including three neighbouring villages in its ambit.
 
 “There has been no history of any major caste or communal clash here,” says former panchayat head Chikka Javaregowda (80). “The police often say they don’t have much to do because we settle minor disputes ourselves. A family might even consult an elderly Muslim for advice about a marriage alliance they have…”
 
 Javaregowda was a 10 year old when Srinivas was engaged in his field work. “I used to accompany him everywhere and so we developed a special bond. He’d mingle with all... But he was a sharp observer. At the headman’s house, he had noticed how people of different castes behaved when they stepped on to the verandah. The priest who had access to the inner rooms would leave his footwear just outside the entrance, some others would leave their pairs almost on the street, far away.”
 
 Much has changed in terms of facilities. And so, Javaregowda’s narration of the story follows two routes: one of progress and one of nostalgia. The peepul tree at the mouth of the village where people waited for buses or met for a late afternoon chat, is now gone but the orchards behind the Bullock House where Srinivas was put up, stays in some form. Paddy was the main and sole crop then and the “special Kodagahalli rice variety was our pride”.
 
 He is also delighted to recall the day, many years ago, when 33 residents of the village went on an invitation to the Infosys campus in Bengaluru to attend a conference. “(Narayana) Murthy played the perfect host and the event stretched on till evening. I spoke about the need to expand horizons and travel places, learn languages,” recalls Javaregowda. “Referring to the book, Murthy even asked me in good humour whether some people still walked with a swagger. I told him, you come and see for yourself.”
 
 If anything, Kodagahallli is a hospitable village. Its orderliness stands out, as much as its sociable residents who’ll offer you a chair on their verandah and a steaming cup of tea. Even if the heat bore down at noon, you wouldn’t miss the old peepul tree.
 
 
 
 
