AHMEDABAD: Shailesh Bhatt, the alleged victim in the  , made an application of complaint to the New Delhi headquarters of the Central Bureau of Investigation on April 19, with allegations against a   posted in Gandhinagar.

 Bhatt moved the   after CID (crime) officials suggested that he file another complaint, for his allegations that the CBI inspector had extorted money from him. The CID has arrested five persons in the bitcoin case so far, including   SP Jagdish Patel, LCB inspector Anant Patel, two constables and Surat-based lawyer Ketan Patel.
 
 According to Bhatt’s application, he received a call on February 1 from what he claims is a landline number of the CBI’s Gandhinagar office. The caller identified himself as Sunil Nair, a CBI inspector. Nair told Bhatt that he had learned about Bhatt’s black money and asked him to record his statement on February 4. On the said day, Bhatt — accompanied by his associates Kirit Vala and Jignesh Moradiya — met Nair on the third floor of the CBI office.
 
 Nair then allegedly threatened to inform the enforcement directorate and income tax department and slapped him, to intimidate him. Bhatt’s application states that Nair conniving with Kirit Paladiya, his business partner.
 
 The next day, Paladiya accompanied him to a meeting with Nair, where Nair demanded Rs 10 crore. Eventually, the deal was settled at Rs 5 crore. Bhatt allegedly handed over Rs 50 lakh cash to him in a cloth bag. On April 8, Bhatt allegedly paid Rs 4 crore through P Umesh, an angadia firm. On April 9, Bhatt gave Rs 60 lakh to Paladiya. The application states that Nair told him to come on April 10 to get his no objection certificate. On April 11, Paladiya asked him to come to Gandhinagar, after which Bhatt, his driver Mahipal Ahir and Paladiya were picked up by a team of Amreli police headed by LCB inspector Anant Patel. CBI sources said a separate departmental inquiry is being conducted with into Bhatt’s allegations. However, Nair is still posted at the CBI office in Gandhinagar and action will be taken once they get evidence supporting Bhatt’s allegation, they added.
 
 
