LUCKNOW: The city is likely to lose out on   this year too as it is yet to be declared   (ODF), while the ranking exercise is about to begin in a week.

 The Lucknow Municipal Corporation (LMC) had declared that it will make the city ODF by November 2017, but one can still find people defecating in the open. This is because of two factors — LMC’s failure in building the required number of toilets and, secondly, because of lack of coordination between railways and LMC in stopping people from using vacant land within railway’s boundary for defecating. While the Centre had given October 2018 as the deadline to make cities ODF under   Mission (SBM), LMC had set its own deadline of November 2017.
 
 
 However, two months have passed and LMC is still struggling to build the required number of toilet seats. As per  , total 15,000 new individual toilet seats had to be built. However, it has built only about 1,100 seats till now. Under public/community toilets, it has been able to build around 60% seats targeted till date. Officials said that though the construction is on, achieving the target can only be possible by April 2018 while the survey would begin this month itself.
 
 A big chunk of people resorting to open defecation use the land within railway’s boundary.   claim that they have been writing to both Northern Railways (NR) and North Eastern Railways (NER) for past many months to help them give land to build toilets or stop slum dwellers from using their land for defecation, but they haven’t received any positive response. They claimed that if both NR and NER cooperate with them, they will be able to declare Lucknow ODF by March, else it may take many more months.
 
 The NR officials said that they have assured LMC that they will provide land as per their policy and not based on LMC’s demand. The NR divisional railway manager (DRM), Satish Kumar said, “We will carry out a survey soon to identify land that can be given to make toilets for encroachers based on our rules.” The NER though said that they have not received any such letter from LMC, but if required, NER will help them in conducting a joint survey.
 
 ODF parameter carries 150 marks in the SBM 2018 Ranking. Last year Lucknow scored zero out of 150. If the city is able to declare itself ODF and is found true during spot checking, the Centre gives 75 marks, but if the claims are found false, the corporation can also face negative marking.
 
