PANAJI: Commuters and   who take a   ride across the   on the Panaji-Betim route may not be able to enjoy it free any longer as the river navigation department (RND) is planning to charge passengers and two-wheelers for the service. 

 Sources said, RND is contemplating charging Rs 5 for passengers and Rs 10 for two-wheelers on the Panaji-Betim ferry route. Sources said this alone can bring in a revenue of Rs 1 crore a year for the department.
 
 The local panchayat had requested the department to start charging commuters on this route owing to the high density traffic, sources said. 
 
 Presently only four-wheelers pay anywhere between Rs 7 and Rs 35 for using the service to cross the river. But RND is working on a proposal to double the existing fare for four-wheelers on all routes.
 
 The four-wheeler fare varies depending on the ferry routes. On smaller routes like Surla, the fare of Rs 7 per trip will be enhanced to Rs 15, while the fare on regular routes which is Rs 10 will be raised to Rs 20. Currently, the highest fare is charged on the Madkai-Cortalim route at Rs 35. It will be increased to Rs 70.
 
 Sources said RND is in the process of outsourcing the ferry services on the Panaji-Betim route to a private party to start RoRo services. A proposal for Ro-Ro service was prepared by the Captain of Ports (CoP), RND and division V of PWD, last year. TOI had reported about the same on May 25, last year.
 
 The RND will therefore not operate its regular ferries on this route. The three existing ferries on the Panaji-Betim route are likely to be replaced by two Ro-Ro ferry boats.
 
 “We have sent the file for government approval with a proposal for charging fees to those who commute on the route. Following which, an expression of interest will be published for those interested in building the vessels for the service. The private party will then run the RoRo ferries on a build-and-operate basis,” an RND official told TOI.
 
 On an average day, there are about 11,000 commuters and more than 5,000 two-wheelers travelling on the Panaji-Betim ferry route.
 
 
