MUMBAI: In a historic turnout for a celebrity   in recent memory, around 25,000 people lined the roads from Lokhandwala Complex in Andheri to Juhu to bid farewell to veteran actor   on Wednesday. She was accorded a   funeral. The last rites of the first female superstar of Hindi cinema—a Padma Shri awardee—were performed around 5pm. Husband   Kapoor lit the pyre, along with daughters   and  . 
 
 Policemen draped the corpse in the tricolour and presented a guard of honour while the police band trumpeted a musical tribute. 
  
 Around 2.15pm, the   began its journey from Lokhandwala Complex to Vile Parle Seva Samaj crematorium at Pavan Hans. 
  
 The truck was bedecked with white flowers, mainly asters and carnations. A large portrait of the actor wearing a smile on her face was framed in flowers. Members of the family led by husband Boney Kapoor, daughter Janhvi, Anil, Arjun and Harshvardhan rode the truck bearing the glass casket with Sridevi’s body. 
  
 The actor was dressed in a deep red sari with gold border and adorned with vermilion in her hair and a big red bindi on her forehead. 
  
 The pace of the procession slowed down as thousands of fans lined the streets from Andheri to Juhu. Along the length of the route, people stood on dividers and pavements holding their cellphones aloft and shooting videos of the passing cortege. Bikers dodged police motorcycles as their pillion riders took pictures. 
  
 As the procession reached Pavan Hans around 4pm, multitudes surged on to the nearby skywalk. 
  
 Visiting dignitaries had a tough time too, for only 12 cars belonging to the immediate family were permitted to enter the crematorium compound. 
  
 Mourners, including Shah Rukh Khan, had to alight outside and walk some distance to the cemetery. 
  
 Celebrities from the film industry, business and politics turned out in strength to pay homage, first for the wake at Celebration Club, Lokhandwala, from 9.30am to 12.30pm, and thereafter at the crematorium. Amitabh Bachchan joined the funeral while wife Jaya, daughter Shweta and daughter-in-law Aishwarya Rai Bachchan attended the viewing. There were Anil and Tina Ambani, Kumarmangalam Birla, Rekha, Vidya Balan, Ramesh Sippy, Madhuri Dixit, Subhash Ghai, Karan Johar, Hema Malini, Karisma Kapoor, Imtiaz Ali, Sanjay Nirupam, Sushmita Sen, Tanuja, Kajol and Ajay Devgn, and Amar Singh and Jayaprada, among others. 
  
 Traffic was diverted across S V Road, Juhu and Andheri West for the procession. 
  
  
