CENTURION: The SuperSport Park is a relatively small ground. A fast bowler's run-up alone is enough to cover up the radius of the field. However, size notwithstanding, it was a tediously long walk for the Indian batsmen from the crease back to the dressing room. Shoulders slouched, heads bowed, bats under their arm, they walked into oblivion on Wednesday.

 
 
 On a wicket that couldn't have been more Indian on South African soil, chasing a target that couldn't have been any lesser given their impressive bowling effort on Day Four, looking to survive in a series that kept ringing curtains for them with each passing over, India's batsmen could've done far better.
 
 
 
 
 Instead, they got bowled out for 151 chasing 287 in 50.2 overs. Determined to do away with their reputation of being mere 'flat track bullies' when they left the Indian shores, Team India will go into the third Test having already squandered the series and no effort made, whatsoever, to change that perception.
 
 "You can accept defeat but not the way we played. The way we let the advantage slip out of our hand, that is not acceptable. So many soft dismissals in one match hurt a lot," captain  , whose first innings 153, in hindsight, only prolonged the unavoidable, said after the match. "Individuals have to sit and reflect on these things themselves. They do it, I am not saying they don't reflect on it, but we have repeated these mistakes in both matches. There have been many soft dismissals, which as a team are not acceptable".
 
 To put it in perspective, pacer   scored 28 runs, exactly half of what the top five batsmen -  , KL Rahul,  , Virat Kohli and   - managed, that being a collective effort of 56 runs.
 
 The folding up began in the fourth over of the day when risking a third run which wasn't there, Pujara once again ran himself out, becoming the first Indian batsman to be run-out twice in an innings.
 
 If the first innings dismissal had appeared to be a brain-freeze, the second innings was mere clumsy.
 
 His departure gave way to what would then remain a hurried wrap up.
 
 "We have not come here to play the way we have (played). That is something that we need to definitely speak about. We will need to be hard on ourselves. We need to ask ourselves if we are giving 120% every time we bowl a ball or play a ball or field a ball. That is something individuals need to reflect on themselves too, but as a team, we are (definitely) going to lay out these things in the open," the India skipper said.
 
 "We will ask the guys to be honest about what they were feeling at particular stages in the game. Unless you speak about it and lay it out in front of everyone, there is very little chance of improving. The mistakes that we made have been about not really putting attention to detail at important stages of the game. It is something we need to take into account and sit down and discuss," he added.
 
 Selection dilemmas dogged this team ever since they picked the eleven for the first Test. Picking   over  , for instance, was first to attract its share of criticism and lack of performance on part of the team only went on to lay further cracks. Wednesday's defeat, a result of plain insensible batting, poor stroke play, awkward runouts and absolutely no lack of any application will only widen those cracks further.
 
 "You're telling me we could have played the best XI," Kohli shot back when asked about the team selection. "So, you tell me the best XI and we'll play that. I'm saying the loss obviously hurts. But you make one decision and you back it".
 
 The captain is certainly right when he says, in the end all that matters is who goes out on the field and performs. Except, to his and India's misfortune, nobody did.
 
 "Look when something doesn't work, obviously it's going to be spoken against. We are pretty used to that. We as a team don't think of what the opinion going around is, and I've clarified that before also," Kohli said when asked about the selection of India's playing eleven.
 
 "There are many people that are involved in making a decision for the playing XI. A lot was spoken about Bhuvi as well but Shami performed in this game. So now no one is talking about that. You make one decision and you back it," he said. 
 
 
 The victorious South African team was fined for maintaining a slow over-rate in the second Test against India, which concluded at the Centurion on Wednesday. Match Referee Chris Broad imposed the fine after Faf du Plessis’s side was ruled to be two overs short of their target when time allowances were taken into consideration. In accordance with Article 2.5.1 of the ICC Code of Conduct for Players and Players Support Personnel, which relates to minor over-rate offences, players are fined 10 % of their match fees for every over their side fails to bowl in the allotted time, with the captain fined double that amount. As such, de Plessis has been fined 40% of his match fee, while his players have received 20 % fines.
 
 
