MUMBAI: A popular mall in Thane had a long queue at its autorickshaw stand late Saturday evening as many shoppers were finding it difficult to get   or Uber cabs. This seems to have been the problem in several parts of Mumbai for the past week, with commuters used to getting a cab within a few minutes complaining about unavailability of cabs and longer wait time.

 
  
  
 
 “The expected time of arrival ( ) of a cab was 20-22 minutes during the 3-4 times I booked last week,” said  , a resident of Mulund. Sridhar Gaikwad, a Thane resident, said fares were double the regular price, especially during the extended weekend. “We are getting surge price almost throughout the day,” he said. The Uber app mentioned that ‘fares were higher due to increased demand’.
 
 Aggregator cab union leaders and drivers TOI spoke to pointed at a shortage of vehicles during the summer.
 
 
 
 
 As the demand for AC cabs rises during summer, commuters come across surge pricing and longer ETAs (Expected Time of Arrival) on the aggregator apps, said a cab union leader. “Many drivers have gone to their hometowns to visit their families and also because this is the wedding season,” said union leader Yakub Mehta explaining the shortage of cabs.
 
 Manoj Karia, a regular user of aggregator cabs, said that whenever he booked a cab, the app showed that the driver was on his way to drop a passenger before picking him up. “This increases the wait time,” he said. Subroto Nag, an IT professional, said people do not mind spending extra to travel by Ola or Uber instead of catching an auto or a kaali-peeli. “But it is difficult to get a cab, and when the booking is confirmed, one has to wait at least 20 minutes for the cab to arrive,”' he said.
 
 An official from an aggregator firm, not wishing to be named, said: “It is not true that ETAs are longer for all commuters. Many passengers are getting cabs within five minutes and that are parked close to their pick-up points. The aggregator business model, however, depends largely on how driver partners operate.” When contacted, a Uber spokesperson said: “Technology enables every successful ride on Uber, and our efforts are focused on making that ride experience as seamless as possible. We are committed to providing reliable, convenient and safe transportation. To make that possible, we’ve built a technology platform that uses complex algorithms to connect riders with driver partners. Features like Heat Map in the driver app help us maintain marketplace efficiency by directing drivers to geographical areas with high demand, so as to ensure that availability and demand pressures balance out at the earliest.”
 
 A Ghatkopar resident and a regular user of Uber and Ola cabs said: “It is frustrating waiting for a cab for a long time when there is an urgency to leave for work.” Many Mumbaikars have, in recent months, switched over to aggregator cabs and some of them have even decided not to purchase a new car due to the convenience of booking an AC cab at doorstep.
 
 Several office-goers have also switched over from trains to AC share/pool cabs to travel to workplace as it provides them comfortable rides and is economical. Many such passengers were left in the lurch due to longer ETAs in the past few days, sources added.
 
 
