In the latest episode of  ,   invites   and Bapu Ji to their home for authentic Bengali dinner. This gets Jetha excited. He goes to the florist and decides to take a bouquet for Babita ji.

 
 Abdul spots Jethalal crossing his shop. The former asks the latter why he is carrying a gift and a bouquet with him. Jetha tells him he has been invited by Babita for a meal. But when he returns home, Bapu Ji tells him they have to go to  's house for dinner. 
 
 Jetha tells him they have been asked to come over by Babita as well and he has accepted her invitation. He suggests he can go to Babita's house and Bapu Ji could go to Popatlal's with Tapu. When Bapu Ji refuses, Jetha suggests they could first go to Popatlal and then Babita Ji's house, leaving no one disappointed. 
 
 Bapu Ji doesn't agree with that as well. He asks Jetha to call Babita and cancel dinner at her home. Jetha instead calls Popatlal and asks him to come over so he could speak with him. Popatlal thinks Jetha has got him a marriage proposal. He comes to their house and says 'yes' without listening to Jetha. 
 
 Jetha then tells him that they have been invited by Babita Ji also and she is going to make special Bengali specialties for them. He asks Popat to tag along. The latter gets offended and tells them how much effort he has put in to prepare dinner for them. 
 
 Jetha favours Babita over Popat, which makes Popat remind Bapu Ji of the promise he had made to him. Bapu Ji decides to go and apologize to Babita Ji for the misunderstanding between Jetha and him which led to all the confusion. 
 
 Jetha doesn't want to let go of the opportunity of meeting Babita Ji. He tries tricking Popat by saying that he knows of a secret marriage bureau, wherein the head will be impressed if he serves her Bengali food. Popat immediately understands Jetha's smart way of cancelling dinner at his home again.
 
 Left with no option, Jetha goes to Babita's house to tell her how they won't be able to come over. But he finds that she has prepared an elaborate meal for them. Jetha finds himself in a fix. 
 
