Meet Mr Budhiya, an endearing dhoti-clad villager from Jagdishpur. With a red duster around his waist, a look of concern on his moustachioed face and a volley of questions, his weapon,   has managed to pull off what the country’s top leaders could not. Combat rising anti-nuclear sentiments. This fictional character from a fictitious town may not look like your typical comic book hero, but stands for the same things: justice and good. In this case, that the atom is good, clean, necessary and desirable.

 Budhiya, made his entry at a time fraught with “atomic allergy” when even the digging for a wall to mark off the Jaitapur   plant site on the Konkan belt or the two-month old nuclear project in Koodankulam in Tamil Nadu – the first of many such new nuclear reactors planned by the government – sparked hunger strikes and locals and environmentalists clashing with the police, even resulting in death. The year was 2011 when the quake-triggered radiation leak in Japan’s Fukushima nuclear plant that claimed thousands of lives and was labelled at par with the world’s worst nuclear accident in Chernobyl 25 years ago, further heightened the fears.
 
 With anti-nuclear activists intensifying their campaign even as India aims at expanding its nuclear capacity to 20,000MW by 2020, the need to dispel myths associated with nuclear energy became the need of the hour for the government-owned Nuclear Power Corporation of India Limited ( ) that decided to bring into play the humble cartoon and a three-part comic book series as a campaign tool.
 
 Thus the audio-visual drama of Budhiya’s journey supported by a colourful cast of characters – the avuncular Mukhiyaji, the podgy and wide-eyed Parvati and Misri Bhabhi, the city-bred Samir, the naïve Nanhe, and the friendly   officer Amit Kumar – blending fiction with actual issues easily lent itself to their efforts of engaging villagers and pushing for nuclear power as a non-belligerent energy source.
 
 The first part titled ‘Ek Tha Budhiya: Kahani Ek Khushaal Gaon Ki’ introduces the village of Jagdishpur, modelled on Jaitapur, which has seen very little development in several decades, largely due to the ignorance and superstitions of the villagers. All that changes, when a young boy from the same village steps in and shatters age-old fallacies about a proposed nuclear plant.
 
 “Will we become sterile? Will our children be born with congenital diseases? Will cows give birth to two-faced calves? Will we lose our land?” interrogate Budhiya and his village-folk sitting on a grassy patch. “How many of you have had a chest X-Ray?” counters Samir, Mukhiyaji’s grandson, fresh from an internship at a nuclear reactor. A bunch of hands go up. “Did you know that the radiation dose from a single X-ray is equivalent to living in the vicinity of a nuclear power plant or working in it for 20 years,” explains Samir, who slays every doubt the villagers throw up and convinces them that the plant which is “clean, green, and economical” will transform the village.
 
 In the second part ‘Budhiya Ki Sair: Kahani Parmanu Bijli Ghar Ki’ Budhiya and the villagers embark on a tour of the colossal nuclear power plant in Rajasthan and learn about the churning turbines, day-to-day life of the yellow-helmeted staff in the reactor buildings. The third in the series ‘Badal Gaya Budhiya: Kahani Jagdishpur Gaon Ke Adarsh Gaon Banne Ki’ is about Budhiya’s awakening and Jagdishpur’s turnaround as an ideal village as Budhiya slips out of his dhoti-kurta into a crisp shirt and trousers and arrives in a red car, a marker of change.
 
 The comic-led movement was the brainchild of Amritesh Srivastava, senior communications manager at the NPCIL with a background in filmmaking who sketched out the storyboard in seven languages - Hindi, English, Gujrati, Marathi, Tamil, Telugu and Kannada – where Budhiya, a common name for men in UP’s villages becomes Ganpat with a Gandhi cap in Maharashtra and morphs into a lungi-wrapped Muthhu with an ash-smeared forehead in Tamil Nadu.
 
 “A few words and pictures said a lot more than lengthy discourses and people in villages responded readily. During the 2011 protests in   and Koodankulam, we saw children made to stand with placards at the proposed sites. That’s why we started by reaching out to children,” he explained.
 
 India currently has 22 nuclear reactors in operation at seven sites. While millions of copies of the comic have been circulated across schools and colleges in rural India between 2012 and 2014, a fabricated bus called ‘Atom on Wheels’ ferrying Budhiya’s comics and screening the animated film, completed its rounds of 1500 villages and settlements surrounding NPCIL's present and future plants last September.
 
 “Awareness has been our biggest achievement that has driven away rumours, misconceptions and led to a slide in local resistance,” adds Srivastava whose beliefs aren’t too far fetched given the actual Budhiya-like transformation in Sanjay Dodiyar, head of the Banswara district panchayat in Rajasthan. “Watching the comic book characters and listening to their conversations has given us a vivid insight into the complex phenomenon. We only saw danger but now we are hopeful about the way it can actually improve our lives,” he says.
 
 
