KOLKATA: The  , who were to return home on Saturday, could not do so as Kolkata   Rail Corporation (KMRC) (implementing the  ) still considers the structures unsafe — even as the   (TBM) has passed them. The residents will have to wait till next Saturday.

 TOI has been reporting on the condition of the buildings along which the TBM is now burrowing to construct the Rs 8,996-crore Howrah-Salt Lake Metro corridor, their evacuation which was advanced by a day on Tuesday, how portions of one of these buildings (identified as unsafe by KMRC) at the Old Court House Street area collapsed even before the monster machine could come to it. The TBM, nicknamed Prerna, along with sibling Rachna is digging and building the twin tunnels of the Metro corridor.
 
 Wednesday’s collapse at the entrance of 4 Old Court House Street was the most dramatic, yet anticipated, of incidents relating to the TBM’s journey so far. But Saturday’s development took all those looking forward to reopening their shops or returning home to 10 and 9 Old Court House Street after four days by surprise.
 
 Munni Devi, one of the 25 occupants put up in 10 rooms in a central Kolkata hotel, was annoyed. “Main ghar sansar chhod kar kab se bahar hun. Aaj wapas kyun nahi jaa sakte? (I’ve been away from home for long now. Why can’t we return today?),” she said.
 
 Baidyanath Das, administrator of the 1840-founded J Sur & Co housed at 10 Old Court House Street, was handed over a fresh notice as he was trying to open the shop.
 
 On Saturday, TOI found the surroundings of 6, 7, 8, 9 and 10 Old Court House Street buildings fortified by the KMRC workers. Neither a hawker nor pedestrian was allowed anywhere near the structures.
 
 The notice, signed by KMRC managing director A K Nandy and served to the occupants, read: “This is to furtherance of earlier notice, the residents and the people of business units located 30 Hemanta Basu Sarani (changed address of 10 Old Court House Street) along with all people staying/doing business on the adjacent area are hereby requested not to stay at their premises/area till further notice extended up to 11pm on January 27 as safety measures in connection with tunnelling in near vicinity. The residents of the building are requested to continue staying at hotel Himalaya where temporary accommodation has been arranged. Your cooperation in this regard is highly solicited.”
 
 The stretch (between BBD Bag and Esplanade) is turning out to be the most critical for the TBM, which has already dug past the heritage hub and the ASI-protected monuments of Beth El Synagogue, Magen David Synagogue and Currency Building and the extremely congested Brabourne Road. It has also bored 520m across the river Hooghly.
 
 
