NEW DELHI: In a move which will aggravate tensions between the Centre and   government, Delhi Police has decided to question Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on May 18 in the   of the alleged assault on chief secretary Anshu Prakash. The incident had happened at the CM’s residence. 

 
 According to addl DCP Harendra Singh, a notice was sent to the   on Wednesday and he has been asked to let them know where he would be available on Friday. “We have sent the notice to the Chief Minister since the incident happened in his drawing room during a meeting that was convened by him. He was also present there,” said Singh.
 
 AAP’s Delhi chief spokesperson Saurabh Bharadwaj reacted by attacking the Prime Minister. “Petty politics of Narendra Modi is now crossing all limits and is becoming increasingly vicious. Arvind Kejriwal has been harassed by police and CBI raids during which nothing could be found. Ministers and MLAs have also been troubled with fabricated cases,” said Bharadwaj, adding that “courts have been dismissing such false cases one by one.”
 
 He said that now the   was being used by Modi to target Kejriwal in a false case and delay government work. “In the country’s democratic history, this is for the first time a CM is being   by police in a false case,” he said, claiming that the case was fabricated.
 
 The police had earlier arrested two AAP MLAs — Prakash Jarwal and Amanatullah Khan — in the case. An FIR invoking stringent IPC sections, including that of hatching a criminal conspiracy and assaulting and threatening a public servant, had been filed against the MLAs. 
 
 The CS had said he was summoned late at night to the residence of the CM for some government matter. During course of the discussion, he was beaten up, abused and threatened, he had alleged. 
 
 Apart from section 120 B that pertains to criminal conspiracy, police have invoked sections of wrongful confinement (342), attacking and obstructing a public servant (186/353), assaulting a public servant while on duty (332), intentional insult with intent to cause breach of trust (504), common intention (34) and criminal intimidation (506).
 
 Bharadwaj said the CM was being “targeted” because the AAP government has undertaken reforms in education, healthcare, electricity and water. 
 
 “Kejriwal’s popularity is unacceptable to Modi and that’s the reason for this blatant show of muscle power by the LG and police,” the AAP spokesperson said.
 
 Meanwhile, Delhi Police has arrested a deputy secretary with the Delhi government for allegedly thrashing environment minister Imran Hussain during a clash that had broken out after the alleged assault on the chief secretary. 
 
 The man identified as Ravinder Parmar was spotted in CCTV footage during the probe and has been booked under sections of assault and criminal confinement. He has also been bailed out after the arrest. AAP has dismissed this arrest as eyewash. 
 
 
