LUCKNOW: In a setback to city’s urban push, Lucknow has been ranked 13th among 23 cities in the country in terms of urban planning measures taken by the municipal body in 2017.

 The city has slipped one rank as compared to the  .
 
 The survey was conducted by Bengaluru-based NGO, Janaagraha Centre for Citizenship & Democracy, and is called Annual Survey of India’ City-Systems (ASICS) 2017.
 
 Lucknow scored abysmal 3.8 out of total 10 marks given on parameters like compliance of Urban Planning Act in the state, robust mechanism to prevent Act’s violation, empowerment of local governance, power given to the mayor, urban capacities and   resources.
 
 The NGO has been conducting the   since 2013. Notably, Lucknow’s local governance has shown 5% improvement from last year, based on increase of funds disbursed by LMC for development works this year. But the survey points out a major flaw — that LMC handles only seven out of 18 functions listed in the 74th Constitution Amendment Act (CAA). Another interesting observation is that the voter turnout in last municipal elections was 47%, which is less than the turnout in state elections last year.
 
 The report implies that while Mumbai has been the standard city for the government’s highest capital expenditure per capita for the past many years, it was in 2015-16 that even smaller cities, including Lucknow, showed more capital expenditure per capita than Mumbai.
 
 Anil Nair, head of NGO’s advocacy work, told TOI, “This happened because the state and local governance of these smaller cities is gradually spending more on improving city’s infrastructure which is a welcome move. Mumbai, however, didn’t spend much in 2015-16.”
 
 While Lucknow scored on parameters like implementation of AMRUT reforms, improvement in the per capita capital expenditure, internal audit report and online audited annual financial statements, it lost out on parameters like absence of spatial development planning board for municipal jurisdiction, no public participation in urban planning, poor recovery of taxes, no short or long term fiscal plan and poor adherence to budget timelines. Lucknow also lost out on parameters like no surveys held for mapping citizens’ satisfaction, less than needed powers to the mayor, absence of any digital governance roadmap and no online data about total staff in the LMC.
 
 
