KOLKATA: A new two-lane concrete carriageway has come up in the   beside the existing road that connects VIP Road with   through the airport grounds. But for those who thought they could use the new road to bypass the stretch that gets congested in the evening, there’s disappointment in store. The road will remain closed to traffic for the next several months and will only be opened when either of the flanks of the existing road is shut to facilitate construction of the Noapara-Airport-Barasat   route.

 
 “The new road is ready, but we have been instructed to put up barricades to ensure that vehicles don’t use it. The road will be opened once the Metro construction gets underway. In the first phase, the VIP Roadbound flank will be closed to construct part of the tunnel that cuts across the road.
 
 “When the VIP Road-bound flank is shut, the adjoining flank will be used for city-bound traffic while the newly constructed road will carry Jesore Road-bound vehicles. When this section of the tunnel is ready, it will be covered and the road will be rebuilt. Thereafter, the Jessore Road-bound flank will be shut. Then the other flank be reopened to citybound vehicles while the new road will continue to service Jessore Road-bound traffic,” said an official of the agency in charge of construction of the road.
 
 The 500m stretch between VIP Road and the entry and exit gates on Jessore Road is one of the most used roads in this part of the city. Motorists from Birati, Madhyamgram, Barasat and beyond travelling to and from the city use it to bypass the congestion at the VIP   intersection.
 
 “In the evening, it takes 20-25 minutes to cross this small stretch. We had hoped the new road would add to the existing lanes and traffic movement would get smoother. But now that we have been told that the road will remain closed, it is disappointing,” said  , a resident of Birati.
 
 Metro officials said the road was made to facilitate the construction of the Noapara-Airport Metro link, which has now reached gate No. 1 of the airport. “Inside the airport, the Metro will be underground. The tunnel will be built in a cutand-cover mode. We had built the road to ensure traffic movement is not disrupted when the tunnel work begins,” said a Metro official. However, the Metro project has been delayed and until work resumes, the road will not be in use. The 250m concrete road with mastic surface has been constructed at a cost of Rs 250 crore.
 
 An officer of Bidhannagar Commissionerate said that while the new road will be barricaded at present, it may be opened up if the situation demands. “Had the road added a flank with two lanes right from VIP Road to Jessore Road, it could have been used once completed. Then, we could have used the two flanks of the existing road in the morning for city-bound traffic and the new road — along with the adjoining flank — for vehicles going towards Birati, Madhyamgram and Barasat in the evening. But since it is not so, it doesn’t make sense to throw it open right away,” an officer explained.
 
 
