PATNA: City girl   will represent India in the Junior World Pencak Silat Championship-2018 to be held at Songkhla Rajabhat University in   from April 23 to 29.

 A Class XII student of Loyola High School (LHS), Nikita took her board exams this year. At present, the 17-year-old is attending a preliminary coaching camp at Sher-i-Kashmir Stadium in Srinagar which will conclude on April 20. She was selected after several matches and practice sessions and is confident that she will perform well.
 
 Pencak silat — a class of related Indonesian martial arts — is duly recognized by the Union Ministry of Youth Affairs and Sports, Sports Authority of India and Jammu and Kashmir State Sports Council. 
 
 According to sources, of the 150 students, who were selected for the coaching camp in Srinagar, only 21 (including Nikita) will represent India in the next round in Thailand.
 
 “If I win a gold or silver medal in Thailand, I will be shortlisted for the 18th Asian Games-2018 to be held at Jakarta in August. This is the second time that I am representing India at the international level. I’m excited and happy,” Nikita told this reporter over phone from Srinagar on Tuesday.
 
 Last year, the 17-year-old had won three gold medals — two at the national level (  Championship India-2017 in Faridabad and National Karate Championship in  ) and one at the international level (International Karate Championship in Nepal).
 
 Born to entrepreneur Suruchi Kumari, Nikita aims to represent India at the Olympics. “I know it is difficult... I am sure I can balance my studies and passion well. Initially, my mother wanted me to concentrate only on my studies, but my grandmother   always supported me,” she said.
 
 Nikita, the older of two siblings, scored 8.6 CGPA in her Class X boards. She aspires to become an architect and wants to pursue her higher studies from Bengaluru. She told this newspaper, “Sports is my passion. So, I work hard and practise religiously. I recently wrote my Class XII exams and am satisfied with my performance.” 
 
 LHS principal Brother Satheesh K Don said, “Nikita is a bright student. I am sure she will perform well in the international martial art championship and bring laurels to the country.”
 
 
