TRICHY: The railway board has asked the respective chief medical directors of Railways to explore ways to enter into contracts with the   empanelled private hospitals located within the railways jurisdiction to cover all its beneficiaries -- serving and retired railway employees and their families.

 In a letter, the deputy director of Health and Family Welfare, Railway Board, H   stated that the Central Government’s Health Scheme (CGHS) covers all the beneficiaries, serving and retired employees and their family members who may be required to be referred to these hospitals.
 
 Once a hospital has been recognized by any unit of the railways, it shall be empanelled for the whole of Indian Railway. Every unit shall be uploading the list of hospitals empanelled by it on a website, where anybody can go for treatment.
 
 The zones were delegated powers to empanel the ESI recognised hospitals located within their jurisdiction, apart from CGHS hospitals. At least one hospital should be empanelled in every district. There may be situations where a government or autonomous institute run hospitals is having its own rates different from those of CGHS. In such situations, if the hospital is not ready to provide service at CGHS rates, then the hospital rates may be followed.
 
 Meanwhile, the trade unions urged the railway department to abstain from implementing the Bibek Debroy committee recommendations, as it will affect the existing system in the railways.
 
 Trade unions demand that the railway ministry not to implement the recommendations. "As per the recommendation, railway budget was merged with union budget, the formation of a rail development authority is in process, and the railway schools are on the verge of closure. Next target is the railway hospitals," alleged D Manoharan, deputy general secretary of DREU.
 
 Railways had already nominated doctors, health inspectors on a contract basis. Major hospitals like Perambur in Chennai, Ponmalai in   had lost their glory, as there were no specialists. All these would definitely lead to the closure of the entire medical department, he said.
 
 Railway should not close down hospitals and waste the entire infrastructure for an annual saving of Rs 2670 crore. 
 
 Once it goes to private hospitals, railways have to spend minimum two third of the said amount, Manoharan added.
 
 
