PATNA: Governor-cum-chancellor   on Friday said vice-chancellors and other university officials were not only answerable to him, but also to the people at large for academic, administrative or  , including the ongoing BEd racket.

 “Any VC can call me even at the dead of night for any matter concerning universities, but he will not be allowed to neglect his duties. It is an open secret that most training colleges in the state are being run by influential people, who resist any move to introduce reforms. However, foolproof measures will be adopted to ensure all fairness in the conduct of teacher education,” the   told this reporter at Raj Bhavan.
 
 He added, “I am not afraid of the powerful lobby behind all this. The defaulters will be brought to book. The rules of grating affiliation to private training colleges will be made stricter.”
 
 Expressing concern over introduction of several self-financing courses in the universities without having sufficient infrastructure and approval of the chancellor,   said stern action would be initiated against the persons responsible for introducing such courses. “The careers of more lakhs of students are at stake due to these irresponsible acts of the university officials,” Malik said.
 
 The chancellor has already asked the VCs to prepare detailed academic and examination calendars and adhere to them strictly with a view to regularizing the delayed academic sessions in most universities.
 
 To streamline the working of private teachers’ training colleges in the state, Malik has initiated a number of reformative measures in the last few months. While the Patna high court has already constituted a committee of experts to suggest the quantum of fee to be charged from students admitted to the two-year BEd course, the chancellor’s secretariat has come out with statues prescribing common entrance for admission of students to the BEd course running in all training colleges in the state.
 
 The entrance test will be conducted by each university on rotational basis every year and the task of conducting maiden entrance test has been given to the Nalanda Open University.
 
 Sources said the chancellor’s office is getting full support from the chief minister and the education department in implementing reformative measures. “I am quite hopeful of bringing the derailed system on the right track with the cooperation of all the stakeholders,” Malik said.
 
 
