Elections are as much about optics as they are about narratives and manifestos. If Siddaramaiah contesting from two constituencies is seen as a setback to  , Yeddyurappa’s failure to get his son a ticket has sent wrong signals from  .

 Both parties have 40 star campaigners each, the maximum number as rules allow. That reflects a show of strength or lack of confidence, depending on who you speak to. While Congressmen say BJP feels the Modi-Shah (PM Narendra Modi and BJP national president  ) combination is not enough, thereby bringing in more stars, the latter says Congress’ show stands no chance in front of theirs.
 
 Congress will rope in Sachin Pilot, Shashi Tharoor, former cricketer Mohammed Azharuddin, Raj Babbar and former Kerala CM Oommen Chandy. Among BJP’s star campaigners are CMs Yogi Adityanath, Devendra Fadnavis and  , Union minister Nitin Gadkari and MP Hema Malini.
 
 “Congress does not have somebody like a Modi or a Shah, and yet BJP has so many more leaders. Does this mean it’s short on confidence? The other reason is that it wants to defeat Congress at any cost as Karnataka is crucial in view of national politics,” says political analyst S Mahadevaprakash.
 
 Another analyst says a victory in Karnataka will rejuvenate Congress, allowing it to up its game in the upcoming Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh and   elections.
 
 “BJP hasn’t won states that have a third party since 2014. A victory here will add to Congress’ strength in the three states due for elections in November,” Prakash says.
 
 A Congress leader pointed out that BJP, which lost bypolls in Rajasthan and UP, is not as confident as it was a few months ago and Modi’s ‘one nation, one election’ ploy was to offset losses.
 
 A senior BJP leader said: “BJP is a strong campaign party unlike Congress that relies on local leaders. If this was a Hindi-speaking state then the star campaigners would have had a more hectic schedule... Congress lacks faith in local leaders which is why they have so many stars.”
 
 Congress’ Priyank Kharge, argues: “BJP lacks a narrative in the state. It’s unable to use corruption as our government had a clean term and it has Yeddyurappa who epitomises corruption. So they are bringing outside narratives, which won’t work here.”
 
 Some BJP insiders indicate the focus — although a complete majority is the goal — is to ensure Congress doesn’t form a government, even if BJP can’t form one.
 
