INDORE: The Madhya Pradesh Industrial   through an interim order granted   to the workers of the Century Textile & Industries Ltd by directing the   and denim division to provide work to the workmen till final adjudication of the dispute between the two companies buying and selling the plant. 

 Justice GS Solanki chairman of MP Industries Tribunal Indore passed the order on May 17, in an interim application moved by the Textile Mazdoor Union of Khargone, in a complaint lodged by them under the Industrial Disputes Act. 
 
 After the order was delivered to the workers on May 18, they gathered at the entrance of the mill at midnight and tore away the banner proclaiming the name of Wearit Global Ltd yarn and denim division to reveal the sign below- Century Yarn Century Denim -a division of Century  . 
 
 The workers also burst crackers and distributed sweets as social activist   addressed them and congratulated them. 
 
 The tribunal ruled that the workmen were the employees of the Century yarn and denim division of the  . It stated that a division bench of Madhya Pradesh high court while passing an order had observed that the said Business Transfer Agreement had been executed for committing illegality and/or to defraud the employees. 
 
 The tribunal also found that the conduct of Wearit Global Limited showed that they were compelling workmen for the purpose of recognizing them as their employer. 
 
 “In view of the above circumstances, if interim, relief is not granted to applicant, there will be irreparable loss to the workmen for pursuing their legal rights. They will be deprived from wages and they will be compelled to wander here and there for their livelihood” the court ruled, while also taking on record details about the death of two workmen due to the agitation.
 
 The court also directed the labour welfare commissioner to repay Rs 29 lakh to the Wearit Global Ltd, which the latter had deposited in the former’s account as the eight days’ worth wages of the workmen on March 9, 2018 under Shram Kalyan Adhiniyam as ‘unpaid accumulation’. 
 
 
