LONDON:   and his new wife Meghan began married life after their spectacular, rule-breaking wedding, but will be delaying a honeymoon as they turn immediately to royal duties. 

  The newly ennobled Duke and Duchess of   staged a huge party after the ceremony on Saturday at Windsor Castle, where they were greeted by around 100,000 people lining the streets and watched by millions around the world. 
 
  The beaming couple were seen driving to the evening bash in a vintage Jaguar, Meghan having changed from her sweeping Givenchy wedding gown into a sleek Stella McCartney halterneck dress, with Harry switching his military frockcoat for black tie. 
 
  On the bride's finger was a large aquamarine ring, which belonged to Harry's beloved late mother, Diana. Details of the bash, hosted by Prince Charles in a house on the castle grounds for 200 close friends and family, were a top secret although fireworks were seen over Windsor in the evening. Some of the celebrities who attended the earlier service, including George Clooney and tennis star Serena Williams, were also spotted heading in. 
 
  After staying at Windsor overnight, Harry and Meghan were due to return to their home at Kensington Palace in London. They will not be taking a honeymoon immediately, as they are scheduled to attend a garden party for Harry's father Prince Charles, the heir to the throne, at Buckingham Palace on Tuesday. 
 
  Meghan and Charles have reportedly forged a strong bond, and he stepped in to escort her to the altar at the wedding after her own father pulled out following a media furore and subsequent heart surgery. As a formal member of the royal family, Meghan now has her own section of the royal.uk website, which highlights her charity work - and plays down her acting career. 
 
  The section "About the Duchess of Sussex" notes her activism from an early age, as well as her work with UN Women, One Young World and World Vision, with only a passing reference to "filming in Toronto". The biography section offers a few more details about Meghan's near 15-year career as an actress, including in hit US television series "Suits", shot in Toronto. It also references her lifestyle blog, The Tig - which, like her acting, she has given up to join the House of Windsor. AFP 
 
 
