PUNE: An uneasy calm prevailed at Sharma Willows — the abode of 35 families, mostly techies — in Hinjewadi on Tuesday, two days after a group of 30 and odd men stormed into the society premises and assaulted some of its residents playing cricket.

 The intrusion was the fallout of an ongoing dispute between the residents and the project’s Mumbai-based developer over the latter’s unfulfilled commitments. Inadequate water and power supply are only a few of the several issues the residents are pursuing with the builder for some time now.
 
 A resident said on Tuesday. “Every now and then, the builder creates trouble though we have paid for the promised amenities and paying the monthly maintenance charges.”
 
 The builder sought to play down the incident. “It was a petty issue,” he wrote in response to a TOI query. 
 
 According to the society residents, the builder had called a meeting with them on Sunday after they had approached the Maan Gram Panchayat to highlight their problems on Saturday. The builder and his representatives were not happy with the residents for having approached the panchayat. 
 
 On Monday, the Hinjewadi police arrested three of the developer’s local representatives — Santosh Shivaji Irale (35) of Maan village, Vishal Sureshrao Balkawade (35) of Janwadi and Ravindra Motilal Zaveri (51) of   — and booked 24 others for the offence after one of the residents, Robert Antony Paul (30), lodged an FIR. The trio got bail on Tuesday.
 
 Irale, who looks after the maintenance and other upkeep of the society on behalf of the builder, said, “Actually, we wanted to discuss the problems faced by the residents in details. But they approached the gram panchayat before the meeting. This politicized the matter and in a fit of rage, it happened.” He also said that he had tendered his apologies to the residents.
 
 Paul said, “The builder had promised many amenities. For the past five years, this 12-storey building is standing on without any amenities. It has only one elevator. The duct of the other elevator is carelessly kept unattended. There is no provision for potable water and we have sub-electricity meters.”
 
 Ashok Shivanand, a techie beaten up about a year ago by the builder’s men, said, “The builder and his men are troubling us whenever we demand the promised amenities.”
 
 The building has 96 apartments. Of them, 45 have been sold and 35 are occupied. 
 
 Hinjewadi police said they were probing the incident. They have the CCTV footage of the premises.
 
 
