KOLKATA:   — the man who reportedly preserved his mother Bina’s body for three years in a refrigerator— has claimed that he had received around Rs 20 lakh as loan from the central Kolkata branch of a private bank. 

 Police said they are probing his claims after recovering bank-related documents from his house. The claim is interesting as cops now have proof that Subhabrata had indeed, albeit unsuccessfully, applied for a huge loan in the past three years. 
 
 
  
 “On several occasions, he seemed ready to mortgage his house. We will like to know if this desperation was only to see his mother coming back to life as he claims,” an officer said. According to police sources, Subhabrata told the doctors at SSKM and   that he needed the money to continue his research in conserving the dead. “He claimed that the loan was his ‘due’ as he was a deserving scientist,” a source said. 
 
 However, cops feel that given the efforts he took to conceal his activities from the world outside has made cops believe that this needs a deeper probe. “There are several documents at the house. We are waiting to hand over Bina’s body to her husband Gopal before we seek his help to unearth important documents. A locker — operated jointly by the Majumdars —will also be opened,” an officer said. 
 
 Police said they are yet to recover a passport from the accused that would verify his claim of travelling worldwide — both on business and to learn the art of cryo-preservation. “He has an expired passport and the only place he visited outside the country is Hong Kong in at least a couple of decades,” an officer said. He said they have proof that Subhabrata was using his ATM card, but are not sure if he was withdrawing his mother’s pension. 
 
 “The bank is yet to give us all documents,” an officer said. But cops are not letting go of the financial angle just now. “We have written to the bank to provide us every financial detail about Subhabrata and the pension funds of his dad,  , and mother  ,” an officer said.
