Earlier this week, the   was teeming with officials of the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI). And no, it wasn’t just a routine inspection. The DRI officials seized more than 400 Indian star tortoises, which were being smuggled on the Vivek Express. 
Two women, travelling from Dibrugarh to Kanyakumari, were caught smuggling 406 of these endangered species in different sizes. The tortoises were found stuffed in sacks and gunny bags and were placed along with their luggage. 
 The Indian star tortoise is popular in exotic pet trade, which is the main reason for it being endangered. They are especially in demand as pets in South Asian countries and are illegally sold for a whopping Rs 1 lakh in the overseas market. 
 The Deputy Conservator of Forests, Wild Life Division, Eluru had confirmed that the tortoises were indeed endangered species and had been declared as vulnerable by the International Union for Conservation of Nature. Once the women were caught with the star tortoises, they revealed that they collected them from a person named Kadiri and were being taken to Bhubaneshwar, so that they could be smuggled out to  . 
 
 The DRI seized the tortoises with assistance from the Railway Protection Force and the   officials. The tortoises were then handed over to Forest Range Officer RV Prasad, for safe custody. 
 The officials, who were flummoxed on how to rehabilitate these species, said that they have come up with a solution.
 “The star tortoises have been released in three areas of the Kondapalli Reserve Forest. They were in our custody for two days and were well taken care of. The tortoises like living in grasslands and we searched for safe areas to release them in. We found a few areas with human habitation but came to the conclusion that the reserve forest was the right place to leave them,” officer RV Prasad said. 
 While the forest department officials admitted that the tortoises were vulnerable while placed outside their natural habitat, they were confident that they have now been placed in a conducive environment, which will allow them to grow. 
 
 “There’s even a safe water body for them near the areas where we left them. While they were smuggled from their natural habitat, the place where we left them is also a conducive environment for them. We still see them there sometimes,” Prasad added.
 Senior Divisional Security Commissioner, Vijayawada Division, Ramesh Chandra confirmed that the DRI had requested their help in seizing the smuggled tortoises. 
 Wildlife Biologists reveal that Indian star tortoises are even sold in parts of Europe as exotic pets and the species are facing extinction as they are constantly being smuggled out of their natural habitat. 
 “The star tortoises in India face a threat as they are smuggled out of the country as part of the exotic pet trade. These tortoises are sold at high prices in South East Asian and European countries. The species are a native to   and other southern states and are protected under Wildlife Protection Act,” said Murthy Kantimahanti, Wildlife Biologist at the  .
 Murthy also stressed that careful rehabilitation of these tortoises is critical. “The forest department officials have hopefully assessed their habitats and checked the suitability before releasing them. Also, we don’t know if all the tortoises are fit to be released in the wild too. We need thorough research on the impact of illegal trade on this species, “he said. 
 
 Apart from the exotic pet trade, the Indian star tortoises also face a threat due to habitat destruction, reveals Murthy. “These tortoises thrive in grasslands and when we humans see grassland, we begin to think of it as a wasteland. But that is the star tortoise’s natural habitat. Cattle grazing also affects their habitat,” the biologist added. 
 
