HYDERABAD: Union law minister Ravi   on Thursday brought to the fore the issue of 'triple talaq', saying it is still being practised in  . "The   issue is not about faith. It is about gender equality and justice. When 22 countries including Pakistan have regulated it, why is there a hue and cry in India, despite a law being passed to stop this practice? Why are Sonia Gandhi, Mayawati and Mamata Banjeree against the law when the idea is to protect women?" he questioned. 

 
 Prasad said when a three-year jail term was included in the law as punishment, arguments put forward by those opposing it were how will the family survive if the man goes to jail. "Are people not jailed in domestic violence cases, irrespective of their religion? Article 15 of the Constitution provides for gender equality, so one should not look at triple talaq as a religion or faith issue, but as a law that comes to their rescue," he said.
 
 The NDA government has scored high in its own assessment of its performance in the last four years,   said at a press conference in the city. He also made a detailed presentation on how India has emerged on international scene as an important player and how PM   is a respected personality on world stage.
 
 Prasad was in the city to make a presentation on "48 months of transforming India". He has done it in Patna, Bhubaneshwar and Varanasi also. His next stops are Muzzafarpur and Ranchi. All ministers of the NDA government are engaged in the exercise of talking about the achievements of BJP government across the country. "The PM believes in digital connect as well as physical connect," he said. However, during the presentation, the minister did not provide data on what the Centre has done in states.
 
 He said under the Udaan low cost air fare scheme, poor people will be able to travel in flights and Telangana in particular would benefit with more local airports. "The start-up environment created in Hyderabad was also benefiting people who were looking at creating jobs instead of being job-seekers." 
 
 On high petrol price, he said measures would be taken stabilise them irrespective of the international crude oil prices changing on daily basis.
 
 
