PUNE: The Uttamnagar Police has ruled out any   in the death of Alekh Jaiswal (20), a fifth term naval cadet at the   ( ) here last year, in its report submitted to Haveli sub-divisional magistrate Jyoti Kadam.

 Jaiswal was found hanging from the ceiling fan in his room in `Hunter’ squadron building around 5.15pm on July 23, 2017. No suicide note was found on the spot. Police registered a case of accidental death and launched a probe.
 
 Inspector Hemant Bhat of Uttamnagar Police said, “We submitted our report recently to the Haveli sub-divisional magistrate for scrutiny of the same and to take a call on closure of the case.”
 
 Jaiswal’s father, Shivlal, told TOI over phone from Ambikapur in Chhattisgarh, “I am not aware what conclusion the police have arrived at. All we are demanding is a fair investigation into the case as Alekh was doing well in academics as well in his training at the academy. We are still not able to understand what prompted Alekh to take such a drastic step.”
 
 Shivlal, who runs a restaurant at his native place, had visited Uttamnagar Police last month when the latter recorded his statement as part of the probe. “The police handed me Alekh’s mobile phone. I was also asked to record my statement,” he said.
 
 On the day of the incident, there was a fall-in call at 5pm but Alekh was absent. The NDA authorities then asked his fellow cadets to find out what the matter was with Alekh. When the cadets went to his room, they found Alekh hanging from the ceiling fan.
 
 Later, the police carried out a spot panchanama and recovered his mobile phone and laptop from the room.
 
 Inspector Bhat said, “During our investigation, we recorded statements of Jaiswal’s fellow cadets, the authorities concerned at the academy and also went through relevant documents, including his records. Based on the same, we found that Alekh was not under any psychological stress nor had he indulged in any wrongful activity. His academic record showed that he was doing well and had not received any punishment. His parents also told us that he did not complain about any issues at the academy.”
 
 Bhat said, “Our probe also revealed that on the day of the incident, senior cadets had caught Alekh using a mobile phone in his room, which was against the academy’s rules. We suspect that he might have taken the drastic step fearing punishment. We have specifically mentioned in our report that no foul play was involved in his death.”
 
 “Police had sent Alekh’s mobile and laptop to various forensic laboratories to crack their passwords and access details but they failed to do so. Had we cracked the mobile password, we would have at least come to know whom he was in contact with, whether he had any personal issues, and so on,” he added.
 
 
