NEW DELHI: After Prime Minister  , BJP president   on Saturday accepted the debate dare of his   counterpart   over performance of the government with a caveat that the exchange should be based on facts and substance, not on frivolous allegations. 

 
 “We are ready for debate... but there should be substance and no lies like SC/ST Act being abolished,” said Shah at a press conference on the fourth anniversary of the Modi government. Shah was referring to Rahul’s challenge to PM Modi during the Karnataka campaign to hold a debate with him. Modi had responded to the challenge asking Gandhi for an extempore debate. 
 
 The Congress president had also at one of his rallies in the state alleged the Modi government was trying to abolish the SC/ST Act. Responding to another Rahul Gandhi charge that Modi had lowered the dignity of PM’s chair, Shah said, “The dignity of Prime Minister’s chair had hit rock bottom the day an ordinance was torn into pieces”. Shah was referring to a 2013 incident, when Rahul, in front of cameras, tore up a UPA-government ordinance to save convicted legislators from disqualification. 
 
 The BJP president said today the country has a Prime Minister, who has freedom to speak and doesn’t need to seek permission. “Congress has lost 14 state governments in the past four years that reflects their current state,” Shah said and added, “Congress should point out and prove any one lie about the achievements of the Modi government.” Shah said the opposition has decided to combat Modi through repetitive falsehoods. 
 
 “Opposition’s sole agenda is to remove Modi, however, BJP agenda is to remove poverty and corruption and usher in development,” he said. Shah reiterated that BJP's return to power in 2019 is “not a challenge but a certainty” and projected the 2019 Lok Sabha polls as a contest between Prime Minister Modi's efforts to “remove corruption and poverty” and the opposition's single-point agenda of “Modi Hatao”. 
 
 BJP chief said that the party is proud of an accountable and transparent Prime Minister, who works for 15 hours a day and has ended the 65 years politics of dynasty, casteism and appeasement. “I have no hesitation in saying that the country has the most hardworking Prime Minister today.” 
 
 Shah listed details of the government’s “successes” and heaped scorn on the likely challenge from Rahul-led Congress, saying he may have declared himself a PM candidate but his bid has not got support from even his party colleagues, let alone other opposition leaders. “Mamata Banerjee or no opposition leader and not even any Congress leader supported Rahul Gandhi,” he said. 
 
 About Pakistan's continued support to terrorism in Kashmir despite Indian Army's operations, including a surgical strike, and if war was an option, Shah said, “War is the last resort. It is not an option. Maximum number of terrorists have been killed in the last four years.”
 
