GURUGRAM: Remarks attributed to Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal   on Sunday that   should be read in “mosques or idgahs” or in “private spaces” evoked sharp reactions from Opposition parties in the state that drew parallels with yoga and jagran sessions being organised in parks or on streets.

 Both the   and the INLD accused the ruling BJP of deliberately playing the communal card to attract Hindu voters ahead of the 2019 general election. Prodded by saffron outfits to make his stand clear, Khattar had purportedly said “namaz should be read in a masjid or an idgah, and if short of space, they (Muslims) should read it in their private spaces.” The CM issued a clarification later in the day, saying he had never stopped anyone from offering namaz.
 
 “Muslims have been offering namaz in the open for over a decade in Gurugram and everything was smooth until now. With the 2019 polls approaching, they want to divide the society on religious lines. This is purely a political game to get the attention of Hindu voters,” said  , who was the power minister in the Bhupinder Singh Hooda-led Congress government.
 
 “Instead of making such statements, the CM should allot places large enough for offering namaz. They (Muslims) congregate on the streets because they do not have a place big enough. And why blame them alone? Don’t we do yoga in parks and at times have jagran on the roads?” he asked.
 
 Echoing the Congress, INLD, too, accused the BJP of trying to polarise the voters. “The BJP is trying to divide the electorate on communal grounds, keeping in mind the approaching elections at the national and state level. It is the government’s responsibility to ensure the Muslims feel safe and secure. The government should also find alternative land where namaz can be offered,” said INLD leader Gopi Chand Gehlot.
 
 The Gurugram administration has said it is in the process of identifying temporary sites where Muslims can offer prayers. 
 
 Independent MLA and Haryana Waqf board chairman Raees Khan, known for his BJP leanings, claimed he was unaware of the issue until Friday. “I was not aware of the problem. I got to know it only day before yesterday. I am in touch with the district administration to identify land belonging to the Waqf board. Within a week, we should be able to allocate places where namaz can be offered,” said Khan, the Independent MLA from Punhana in neighbouring Mewat.
 
 Khattar’s remarks gave Saffron outfits a shot in the arm. Sube Singh Bora, the former sarpanch of Wazirabad village who has emerged as a central figure in the namaz protest, said: “The CM has spoken and has agreed to what we have been demanding all this while. But this alone won’t suffice. The government has to quickly specify places where namaz can be offered in the open.”
 
 
