MUMBAI: In a setback to the ambitious luxury floatel project off Mumbai coast, the   on Monday refused to give its nod for a floating jetty at Nariman Point. A division bench of Justice Abhay Oka and Justice Pradeep Deshmukh upheld the order of a HC-appointed committee rejecting permission for the jetty. The panel had said that the project would mar the scenic view of the Marine Drive promenade - a heritage precinct, besides causing traffic congestion in the area. 

 The bench held that the grounds on which the approval was rejected by the panel was not illegal. "We cannot find anyflaw with the order," said the judges. The court raised the red flag over security concerns and pointed out that both the Indian Navy and the   had recommended a security audit by an agency like the Intelligience Bureau for the floatel. The 132-metre luxury liner built in Norway was proposed to be anchored two nautical miles off Raj Bhavan. Rashmi Developers Private Limited (RDPL), which was implementing the project said that it had received all permissions from the authorities. The high court did not agree. "Independently of what is said by the committee, the BMC has also declined to grant permission. The communication by the Western Naval Command and the Coast Guard specifically refer to conducting a security audit by the IB for the floatel project," said the court.
 
 The bogey of revenue sharing between RDPL and   (MTDC) was dismissed by the court. The bench pointed out that the agreement between the company and   was infact not for a floatel but fur running a luxury criuse service between Mumbai and Goa. The court also censured the MTDC for alligning with a private contractor over the issue and asked the state to take a "serious view" of the role played by the tourism agency. 
 
 The 320-room floatel anchored in the high seas is to have four hotels, a helipad and two swimming pools. RDPL's application for a jetty near the Gateway of India was rejected by the Western Naval command for security reasons. Subsequently it proposed to set up a 200 square metre floating jetty with a 100-metre long walkway. The proposed jetty would have waiting facilities as well as toilets for patrons. Eight high-speed boats would transfer the guests from the floating jetty to the floatel. The proposal was forwarded to a committee appointed by the high court to vet all proposals for any avtivities on the Marine Drive promenade. The panel comprising chairman of the Mumbai Heritage Conservation Committee, the municipal commissioner and commissioner of police rejected the application. The panel said that the site is part of the Marine Drive promenade and it was concerned about future traffic congestion on Netaji Subhash Chandra road. It expressed apprehension that crowd management could be an issue, besides the fact that the site was in the sea and would require coastal regulation zone clearance.
 
 RDPL had claimed it had received all permissions and questioned if the committee could scuttle "progress and tourism activities which are to generate huge and handsome revenue, besides generating job opportunities".
 
 
