Mumbai:   in the city are angry and upset that their voice is not being heard and all efforts are being made to tarnish their image and movement.

 Suvarna Salve, member of the Samata Kala Manch, said the violence in Pune against Dalits was to create an atmosphere of fear and crush the Dalit movement. “What we are facing is a form of Brahminical fascism. False statements have been made by the government to drive a rift between the Dalits and  ,” said Surve. She said the police were playing a casteist role and did nothing when Dalits were being attacked but resorted to lathi-charge when citizens protested in Chembur and Buddhist colonies in Aurangabad. “We have to fight these fascist forces now if we are to stop them,” she said.
 
 Researcher Prashant Rupwate said the Ambedkar movement had not carried out a single agitation that had turned violent and the violence today has been against the Dalits or politically motivated. “Ambedkarites have always agitated peacefully and within the ambit of the Constitution,” he said.
 
 Ghanshyam Sonar, member of the Republican Panther Caste Annihilation Movement, said the violence at   was planned by the RSS. Sonar said Marathas and Dalits had shared cordial relations for generations. The   with its Brahminical mindset wants to drive a wedge between the two communities, he said. “The rasta roko and bandh in Mumbai was to highlight the violence against women and children. The attack on Dalits has been on for the past few days but the media did not highlight it till there was violence,” he said.
 
 Advocate S Rupwate, national vice-president, Republican Sena, said the violence in Pune was pre-meditated and the home department along with the police intelligence had failed miserably. “Prior to 2014 the Congress-Nationalist Congress Party and after 2014, the Bharatiya Janata Party, have been promising reservations to the Maratha as also modification of the Atrocities Act, which is simply not possible. These parties have badly damaged the social fabric by stoking the caste fire,” he said.
 
 
