HYDERABAD: Angry students at the   (UoH) are planning a massive protest on campus on Monday over reduction in PhD and MPhil seats along with serious  

 
 Addressing a media conference, members of the students’ union condemned the increasing number of attacks and assaults on campus. In light of increasing instances of sexual harassment and assaults on campus, the students’ union said they will conduct a university general body meeting soon to discuss the issue. They are angry over neglecting   against authorized personnel , including teaching and non-teaching staff.
  
  
 
 The students union has demanded the administration strengthens the boundary walls, street lights, security guards and puts in place an improved internal mechanisms to curb assaults and attacks on campus. “When the university prevents the entry of media, activists or even academicians through the main gate of the campus which has proper surveillance, it is disheartening that four unidentified people enter the university and try to assault students. The institution must recognize the inefficiency of its system itself,” a statement issued by the union read.
 
 
 While a final decision on the intake for MPhil and PhD programme shall be taken during the academic council meeting scheduled on Monday, the students demanded the administration revoke the cancellation of PhDs and facilitate in submission of deregistered students. “Deregistration ruins time and career of students who have invested several years of their life in pursuing research. We demand the immediate restoration of all students whose PhDs got cancelled,” said P Sreerag, president of UoH students union.
 
 
 They also demanded student representatives in all committees including executive council to protect all student entitlements. “Our agenda is to oppose all antistudent decisions that the administration intends to take during the academic council meeting. We will resist the cut in seats and also collection of development fee and  ,” said a student.
 
