AHMEDABAD: The   has admitted in the assembly that it has received numerous complaints about   from   being released into the   and polluting it. The   is among the state’s 20 most  .

 The government, in a written reply to a question by Viramgam MLA Lakha Bharwad, said an effluent treatment plant has been set up for industrial units in Vatva, Odhav, Naroda and Narol and a second sewage treatment plant is being built at Pirana.
 
 The government did not specify how many complaints were received by it, but sources said most pollutants came from untreated water being released from the mega pipeline of these industries.
 
 AMC officials said sewage water coming to the Pirana water treatment plant was also found to contain untreated chemical waste.
 
 Officials pointed out that according to the Ahmedabad Mega Clean Association, which has directors of industrial associations, GIDC, the irrigation department and the Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation as members and is headed by the industries commissioner, the pipe is not properly maintained and due to backing up and overflow, the north, east and south zones of the city are suffering. The residents of east Ahmedabad are particularly affected by this and the problem becomes more severe when it rains.
 
 The association’s website, about the current scenario, says, “The mega line is required to be maintained and protected by industry regularly. AMC took the lead to identify illegal individual sewage connections into this industrial mega pipeline. A joint survey was immediately carried out and in a week, most connections were disconnected from the mega line and further actions were taken.”
 
 The concerned web page reads further, “But after disconnection of 27 illegal domestic connections into the mega pipeline, quantum of effluent overflowing from the mega pipeline has increased a lot and has made the situation of Nikol and nearby areas worse. This is happening because the pipeline is heavily silted. Effluent entering AMC domestic sewers not only occupies capacity of these sewers but badly affects the treatment process of the AMC STPs.
 
 Further, in the Lok Sabha, the Union ministry of environment, forest and climate change (MoEF) stated that the Sabarmati is among Gujarat’s 20 most polluted rivers. Further, Gujarat ranks fourth among the states with the most highly polluted rivers. The MoEF says Gujarat has 20 polluted rivers and streams, including large rivers like the Sabarmati, Narmada and Mahi.
 
 
