UDAIPUR: In a horrifying tale that has come to light, a man had allegedly been raping his two minor daughters for a year almost every night at their home in Deewan Shah colony under Surajpole police station of the city. The accused’s wife, who had left home four months ago, came to know of the act when she returned home recently and the terrified children narrated their plight to her. The man has been detained, police said.

 
 The Surajpole police took the kids to their home to verify the crime spots on Thursday. Child Welfare Committee ( ) members, a   representative and a member of the women's cell accompanied them.
 
 CWC chairperson Preeti Jain said, “The victims’ statements have been recorded and we have ordered the police station concerned to register a case under the   and arrest the accused father.”
 
 SHO of Surajpole police station Adarsh Kumar said, “On the basis of the complaint, we have detained the accused father and are interrogating him.”
 
 Harish Paliwal, a member of the CWC, said, “We received the complaint through the women's cell where the woman had gone with her daughters aged 11 and 6. We held a counselling session with them in a friendly atmosphere to make them comfortable enough to speak out what they had been bearing for a long time. What the kids narrated was a horrifying account that puts humanity to shame. It is hard to believe that any father could commit such a ghastly act with his own daughters.”
 
 The accused is said to be an alcoholic who would not give a penny to his wife for running the household. The woman did petty jobs to look after her four kids. Tired of his constant abuse and battering, she left home four months ago. The elder daughter told the CWC that even when their mother lived with them, her father would take her away while she would be sleeping with her grandparents and siblings in another room. The girl said the man would take her to a separate room, strip and   her very often. The man allegedly threatened her not to tell this to anyone in the house and so the child endured everything.
 
 After their mother left, the father allegedly started raping even the younger daughter, who is just 6 year old, in the same manner. Both the girls were so afraid of being beaten and abused that they could not muster courage to tell this to their grandparents whom they felt would not believe them, the CWC members said.
 
