MUMBAI: On the day of disappearance of BBlunt salon executive Kirti Vyas, her colleague Khushi Sahjwani dressed in a jogging suit left her Santacruz home, picked up Siddhesh from Bhoiwada and headed to Grant Road. 

 
  
 
 “They waited for Kirti outside her home, and picked her up around 8.50am,’’ a police officer added. Their images were caught on the CCTV installed in Kirti’s building. During questioning, they had claimed to have dropped her outside Navjeevan Society near Mumbai Central station from where Kirti was to board a train to Andheri. But a CCTV camera captured the SUV, with all the three, travelling farther. 
 
 The silver SUV belonging to Sahjwani was examined sometime ago by the police but they did not find anything. 
 
 “The vehicle was then sent to the Forensic Science Laboratory (FSL) at Kalina and the experts removed the floor mats and finally the black velvet mat in the boot. The FSL team found blood stains. We called the victim’s parents and their blood samples were taken last month,’’ said an officer. The vehicle has been seized. 
 
 “We believe they killed Kirti when the SUV was on the move and pushed the body to the boot from the backseat,” said a police officer. 
 
 Investigators have found that the car went to Dadar from Grant Road, then to Bandra, Santacruz and reached the Andheri office by 11am. The police collected the mobile tower location of Siddhesh’s cellphone and found that he left his office around 6.30pm on March 16. 
 
 “In between 8.50pm and 9.40pm, his mobile network showed he was at Wadala-Mahul. The body would have been kept in the boot of the SUV the entire day before they disposed of it,” said the official. The duo has been booked for murder, disappearance of evidence, kidnap and common intention and remanded in police custody till May 11. 
 
 “Police called my parents and collected their blood samples. My mother is unaware about the fate my sister has met with ,” her elder sister Shefali (34) had told TOI on Friday. Business was as usual at BBlunt academy in Andheri (W), where the victim used to work. Their office on the third floor was also closed on Saturday. A senior member at the academy said they knew about the case, but had no comment.
 
 (With inputs from Aarushi Seth)
 
