BHUBANESWAR: It's no secret that the performance of Odia students in the civil services examinations has remained dismal over the years. This year was no different. 

 Only around 2% of the total number of students qualifying the exam belong to the state. Lack of proper coaching facilities, inclination towards professional courses and lack of orientation for the coveted exam are the main reasons behind their poor performance, believe experts. 
 
 Around 15 candidates cracked the exam this year. While two of them have secured 48 and 65 ranks, respectively, and will join the  , the results of which were declared by the   (UPSC) on Friday.
 
  "Lack of consistency, a disciplined approach and comprehensive knowledge of the subject is the main reason for students from here not being successful in the civil services. But they are not the only ones to be blamed. Parents, outdated curriculum in universities, lack of proper guidance and coaching also hamper their ability to compete with students of other states," said Surya Narayan Mishra, retired professor of   and an examiner in the civil services examinations. 
 
 Though there are no official figures about the state-wise success of students in the all -India civil service examination, the success rate of Odisha is way lower than other states like Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and  , sources said.
 
  Most bright students from here opt for either medical or engineering as a career and after the completion of courses not many are interested in giving civil services a chance. "The curriculum in colleges and universities should be upgraded and made competition-oriented. There should be some motivation from the state government in the form of facilities for aspirants, rewards and incentives to successful candidates," said Chanchal Rana, an Odisha cadre IAS officer, who had secured 7th position in the civil services exam in 2014. 
 
 In a written reply, higher education minister   had told the assembly in 2017 that only 1.43% students from the state cracked the prestigious examination in 2012, the success rate was 1.8% in 2013, 1.9% in 2014 and 2.4% in 2015. 
 
 Though the state government had announced to set up career counselling centres in ten state-run universities to provide coaching and support related to admissions to students, the announcement remained in pen and paper only. The coaching centre that had opened in Utkal University was shut due to poor response. 
 
  "There is undoubtedly an urgent need for upgradation of the course curriculum. If students will study the courses they find in civil examinations, it will be easier for them to qualify. Besides, infrastructure like libraries are not supportive enough for students," said director of college development council, Utkal University, Santosh Tripathy. 
 
 This apart. due to the absence of professional coaching centres in the state, students are forced to go to Delhi or other cities for preparations. The number of students appearing or preparing for the civil services is less compared to other states, so is the number of qualifiers. "However, the mindset is changing and a number of students are joining coaching classes from graduation itself for the civil preparation, which is a positive sign. In next five years I think we will have 30 civil services qualifiers from the state, if the trend continues," said Susijit Sahu, owner of Aptitude Coaching Centre. 
 
 
