Suvanko Biswas, a resident of   and   of Greater Kailash, are as different from each other as chalk and cheese. It’s another thing that both are the same person, but scratch the surface and truth comes spilling out. As Suvanko, before her sex reassignment surgery, Nitasha was humiliated and rejected by those who thought she was ‘different’. But making a new beginning in Delhi and winning Miss Transqueen India, the country’s first beauty pageant for the transgender, has now changed her life beyond recognition. While prepping for the international pageant in Pattaya, where she will be representing the country, Nitasha tells us, ‘God wanted me to be a woman so he made me with so much care — don’t you think I am beautiful?’ Here’s the transgender model, up, close and personal

 
 
 I feel liberated now. As Suvanko, I felt caged and constricted, but now I am free and happy. I lost my mother to cancer when I was in Class VI. I grew up with my father and elder brother and both were supportive from the beginning. They could realise that I was not like other boys my age who were into cricket or football. I loved staying at home, and played with my dolls or draped mom’s saris, sported her jewellery and posed in front of the mirror. I would play with my kitchen set and Ma could understand that there was a girl inside me. But she left when I needed her the most. I became lonely at that time.
 
 
 
 My childhood was far from a dream. I didn’t have friends, be it in school or my residential complex. I used to study in St Xavier’s and was always a quiet child as I failed to connect with others. My extended family — my cousins and uncles — was not supportive of my behaviour; they used to make fun of me. Within the family, I was ostracised and it was the same with my father and brother. But winning Miss Transqueen India — the country’s first beauty pageant for transgender held in August 2017 — changed my life a lot. Soon, I will be representing India for the first time in an international pageant in Pattaya this March and my relatives wish to revive their ties with me. My cousin, who lives in London, expressed the desire to write a thesis on transgender recently. For me, it’s hard to forget those days of humiliation! Our ancestral home is in Durgapur where Durga Puja is celebrated in a big way. There have been times when no one invited us and I have seen tears in my father’s eyes. But my college life was far better. At  , where I used to study media science, I forged new bonds and realised that I could connect with people around. In those days, every time I read about the transgender community, I would tell Baba and Dada that I felt trapped in my body. At one point, I got frustrated staying in Kolkata and decided to move out. I landed in Delhi and got admission in Footwear Development Design Institute (FDDI) for masters in fashion. Simultaneously, I started working part-time as I needed money.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 Earlier, stares and stray passes would make me withdraw into a shell. But the pageant has changed my life a lot; now there’s a lot more respect for me. Those who have to judge, will still judge… a section of people continues to tease women in short skirts... I prefer to ignore as I know what I want and where I want to reach. My only aim now is to win the pageant and make India proud, and my family too. Have you seen the Indian flag standing tall on my terrace?
 
 
 
 
 
 Yes. The preliminary surgeries are done. I’m through with breast implant and sex reassignment surgery and have already spent around ₹5 lakh. I have gone through a lot of pain, but I didn’t lose hope as there is still a long way to go. Now, I plan to do voice change surgery from  . Life is much easier now. My family is happy seeing me go after my dreams. Every individual has the right to fight fiercely for their sexual orientation.
 
 
 
 
 
 India is much more liberated when it comes to the transgender community. While other countries are still fighting for their basic rights, here we are celebrating them.
 
 
 
 
 
 I wake up by 9.30 am and do yoga and hit the gym. Then I cook; I can make everything from shahi paneer, egg curry to khichuri and what not! After that, I head for my dance classes; I am training in Indian classical dance. Once I am through, I return home and read books. Now, I have a busy schedule as I am readying myself for the pageant. I am reading The Beauty Pageant’s Greenroom, which is helping me prepare for the forthcoming international pageant. I am nervous and excited as so many beautiful girls from different parts of the world will be competing for the title.
 
 
 
 
 
 Previously, I used to wear androgynous outfits but now I flaunt skirts, dresses, denims and tops. I love to wear a sari. At the pageant, I plan to wear a white-and-red border sari as I will be representing my country. I have a lovely collection of saris, heels and jewellery and am carrying 10 saris with me for the pageant.
 
 
 
 
 
 I have a close friend. His name is Kunal. He has seen my transition and has been by my side. We are not dating; we are more of getting to know each other. He supports my journey, my belief and that matters a lot to me. Baba, dada and Kunal will be there in Thailand during the final day of the pageant to root for India.
 
 
 
 
 I want to work for the many Suvankos who don’t have the confidence to open up about their sexual orientation without fear. I want to protect them from what I have been through — humiliation and rejection! Life is one and it’s up to you to choose what you want to become — Suvanko or Nitasha. Society will not choose on their behalf and they have the right to lead life on their terms
 
 
 
 
