HYDERABAD: Former Union health secretary   filed a complaint against an unofficial website which was offering Malaysian visa services. In her complaint on March 6, she alleged she was ‘duped’. Hyderabad cybercrime sleuths booked a case under Section 420 of IPC (cheating), and Section 66 D of IT Act (punishment for cheating using a computer resource) against the unofficial Malaysian online visa website.

 Sujatha Rao said she mistook the site as the official site as it had Malaysian government emblem and gave her Bank of Baroda details and passport info for applying for a tourist visa. The website collected ?16,605 from her account. In her complaint, she raised questions on how banks miss info on fraudulent visa sites and why Google search lists such sites.
 
 
 In her complaint, Sujatha Rao, resident of Prashasan Nagar in  , said: “On February 13, I applied for a tourist visa to   on the site. As the site had a flag and the government emblem, I mistook this to be a Malaysian government site. When one searches Google for an online visa, this site comes right on top. In the evening, I got a message from my bank on my cell phone that ?9,789.54 was debited in favour of the travel agency. I protested against such a big amount being withdrawn. Since I was due to leave for Malaysia on February 15, I thought if they could send the visa. Early next morning, I found they withdrew another ?6,815.68 also. I realised it was a fake site and I wrote to them, asking for a refund and not to process visa application. They said they will not process the application and they would refund within 10 days, as per terms and conditions.”
 
 However, cyber crime police who began investigations, said it could not be a phishing or fraudulent site but it 'may' be an unofficial site.
 
 Speaking to TOI, the investigation officer of cybercrime PS KVM Prasad said, “The website address is registered in   as per IP details, but address given on the site is in Barcelona. The website has a legal disclaimer in small letters that say 'it is not an official site and we collect charges".
 
 The disclaimer states it is a privately owned company and not affiliated with the government of Malaysia. “A service charge of $104 includes travel and immigration services offered to individuals and legal entities, in addition to fees levied by the government, which are $45. Services include support and submission of eVISA for Malaysia application, information regarding the status of application and results via email.”
 
