Mammootty's festival release, 
 , is all set to hit theatres on April 6. The film, which is helmed by ad filmmaker turned director  , began production last year and most of the details have been kept under wraps; which has only served to increase the hype surrounding the film.

 Here are five reasons to catch the film in theatres:
 
 
 
 The duo have been collaborating for the last decade for advertisements. In fact, some of Mammootty's best ads have been directed by Sharrath, who had also helmed the Vaikittu Entha Parupaadi and with  . The director, who will be making his feature film debut, will surely bring his class to the movie.
 
 
 
 No, Mammootty has not produced the movie but he has been with the film since its inception and has been looking forward to its release. Sharrath had told us that Mammootty and him were earlier planning to work on a big budget film but that got pushed and when the director approached the megastar with this project, he wasn't sure if it was the right film for Sharrath, who had done urban stories mostly, to make his debut. However, Mammootty fully supported him after giving him the green light. In fact, the actor was the one who had suggested the title of the film too.
 
 
 
 It was recently revealed that Mammootty will be playing Sakhavu Alex in the movie and the film is based on real-life incidents. While Parole will be different Mammootty's previous political leader roles such as Stalin Shivadas, the megastar never fails to rouse the socialistic spirit in the audience with such characters.
 
 
 
 Sharrath had earlier told us that film will have Mammootty in a performance-oriented, 'naadan' role and would remind the audience of his yesteryear characters. "Even while shooting, he mesmerised the entire cast and crew with his acting abilities. I am sure the movie will move the audience," he said. The movie also has some great action scenes and liberal doses of natural humour that goes well with the script.
 
 
 
 The film has an array of actor playing different roles. Miya appears as Mammootty's sister and Ineya his wife.  ,   and   also play pivotal characters in this entertainer, scripted by Ajith Poojappura.
 
