AHMEDABAD: Union law, electronics and IT minister,  , announced that seven central forensic labs in the country, including the one in Gujarat, will be notified in three weeks so that they can be authorized to provide electronic evidence which are admissible in courts. He also said that the Union government was also planning to link   cards to respective driving licences. Prasad said this while addressing the concluding session of the 24th All India Forensic Science Conference at Gujarat university on Monday.

 Speaking on the right to privacy, Prasad said: “We respect the right to privacy in terms of income record, medical record. Our government supports the right to speech, privacy and empowerment of common man. But it cannot become the shield of the corrupt and terrorists.”
 
  
  
 “Under Section 79 (A) of the IT Act, my department has powers to notify forensic laboratories which can give electronic evidence in court,” Prasad said, adding, “I will like to assure you that within three weeks, we will notify seven central forensic laboratories which will also include Gujarat’s Forensic Science Laboratory.”
 
 He added, “Scientists and experts from these laboratories can depose as well as be authorized to present before a court electronic evidence.” He also urged forensic experts to meet the new challenges of cyber security including the dark net, the spread of hate, abuse and rumours on social media. 
 
 Prior to Prasad, Union minister of state for home, Hansraj Gangaram Ahir, had said that a lot of time is lost while presenting scientific evidence in court, which in turn affects the cases. “I have come across instances where forensic evidence is lost since the process of gathering medical evidence begins late,” said Ahir. Prasad also announced that plans were under way to link Aadhaar cards with driving licences. 
 
 Prasad added, “We will be able to eliminate thousands of cases where individuals have managed to procure multiple driving licences in various states using fake documents.” He also said that India has emerged as a major centre for social media platforms. 
 
 
