Vadodara: Twelve persons including functionaries of prominent builder groups having operations in the city were booked by the Vadodara taluka police for allegedly abetting the suicide of construction contractor Alpesh Thakkar. 

 The couple had consumed poison in their car near the Meldi Mata Temple in   village of Vadodara taluka on April 16. Hina who was still conscious had called a relative who rushed to their aid along with others. The couple was rushed to a private hospital but Alpesh could not survive.
 
 In an offence registered on Friday night, Hina said that Alpesh was in the construction business for the last 11 years. He had worked on projects of a series of prominent realtors in the city as well as some projects at other places. Hina has mentioned that Alpesh had mentioned on several occasions to her that builders owed him money.
 
 At the other end, Alpesh had taken a loan from one Dilipsinh Chauhan who had come to his house a couple of months back and threatened him. Chauhan also took away Alpesh’s new   car on that day. The debtors owed him Rs 6.5 crore.
 
 The offence registered by suicide victim Alpesh Thakkar’s wife Hina mentions that the realtors for whom Alpesh had worked owed him over Rs 6.15crore. One of them even insulted the couple when they went to seek money.
 
 Hina alleged that after being discharged from the hospital on April 21, she and her relatives started looking for bills and other material at her residence. She has stated that she found a series of pending bills. 
 
 “The list of alleged debtors includes Ramesh Patel of   (Rs 4.4crore), Deepak Ambani of Ambani Builders Pvt Ltd (Rs 53.62lakh), Bharat Agrawal of D R Agrawal for Vadodara Municipal Corporation works (Rs 14.64lakh), Hitesh Shah of   who had stopped payments of cheques amounting to Rs 15lakh, Shapoorji Pallonji and Co,. Ltd for work at the Sterling SEZ at Jambusar (Rs 21.32lakh) as well as work and material for polytechnic college of Cube Construction director Nilesh Gandhi,” the FIR stated.
 
 According to Hina, her husband was also owed money by Dilip Tambadiya of  , Nimit Sanghani and Parag of NRS Group and Ketan and Kamlesh of Akshar Public School. She has stated that she was searching for bills of these works and would furnish them to the police whenever she found them.
 
 Hina has stated that when she and Alpesh had gone to ask for money from Ramesh Patel, he had insulted them and instead said that Alpesh had made wrong bills. Patel claimed that it was Alpesh who owed him Rs 10crore. She even alleged that Patel told her that they could go and die if they wanted and he did not have anything to do with them.
 
 Vadodara taluka police sub-inspector B D Jadeja who is investigating the case said that the FIR was based on the narration given by the complainant. He added that process of recording statements of other witnesses and gathering documents was on. The police is yet to make any arrests in the case. 
 
 
