MEERUT: With Holi festival and Friday namaaz falling on the same day, Meerut police has stepped up security to make sure that no untoward or communal incident takes place in the city. At the same time, police have appealed to people of different communities to maintain the law and order in the city.
 
  Meerut SP, city,  , said, “As many as 33 sensitive spots have been identified in the city and heavy police force has been deployed at all these spots. Also, the Muslim community has cooperated and changed the Friday namaaz timings to 1pm against the regular12:30pm so as to ensure that no law and order situation occurs.”
  
  As part of security measures, two companies of   (PAC) and one company of Rapid Action Force (RAF) has been deployed in the city.
  
  The traffic police plans to crack down on drunken drivers, speeding and tripling on two-wheelers on Holi day. Cops will be deployed at major crossings of the city. They will be carrying breath analysers to check drunk driving.
  
  Giving details, SP, traffic,   said, “We have planned to deploy traffic police officers on main crossings of the city to ensure that drunk driving, speeding and triple riding is kept under check. Holi is one such festival when drunken driving increases. City residents should see that it is not done for their own safety or else they will be tackled as per law.
  
  “If any person is caught driving with two people on the pillion or driving under the influence of alcohol or speeding, a challan will be issued against them,” said Bajpai.
  
  There are nearly 20 breath anaylsers in Meerut district, which come handy at the time when drunk driving is to be checked. The Meerut traffic police is in the process of procuring more such breath analysers besides radars to keep a check on over-speeding in the district.
  
  “The traffic police personnel will be deployed at major crossings of the city, including Abulane, Begampul, Hapur Adda, Zero Mile crossing, Tejgarhi crossing and others. If need be, more police force will be asked for,” said Bajpai.
