Chandigarh: To press the UT administration to meet their long pending demands, the UT   Union has decided not to work on January 11.

 Members of the union, while addressing a protest rally on Wednesday, strongly criticised the anti-employees attitude of the authorities and claimed despite the assurances given at the various levels, demands of the employees have not been fulfilled.
 
 The union has been pressing for filling up of vacant posts through promotional and direct quota, removal of pay anomalies, amendments in service rules, providing safety devices to workmen, appointment to the next kin of deceased employees beside completion of long pending projects, and giving DC rate to linemen engaged through outsource.
 
 Union general secretary Gopal Datt Joshi lashed out at the electricity department for not providing compensation and appointment as a special case to the employees who died while performing active duties.
 
 The union is already at loggerheads with the department over several issues.
 
 Union president Satpal and vice-president Vijay Singh pointed out the electricity employees are ensuring uninterrupted supply despite shortage of staff. They further said mass transfer of the field staff is further hindering the system. The union from past several years has also been pressing the administration for filling the vacant posts in the department. According to official figures, the power department is managing its affairs with just 1,000 employees against sanctioned strength of 1,780. A total of 158 linemen are working against the sanctioned strength of 253 and 286 assistant linemen against sanctioned strength of 625.
 
 The staff shortage has affected the functioning of the department. The field staff is unable to restore power in case of break down in time. The southern sectors — 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 47, 48, 49 — are worst affected during peak summer season. The Chandigarh electricity department caters to 2.15 lakh consumers, of which 1.75 lakh are in the domestic category.
 
 
