BENGALURU: S haik Shoeb, 23, may have cracked the toughest of entrance exams to enter  , but hailing   has proved to be a herculean task for him. Reason: he was born with profound hearing loss and cannot speak. Every time   tries to book a cab, the driver mostly cancels the ride as he cannot answer the call. 

 An aggrieved Shoeb is now demanding that cab aggregators have a 'text' option to get in touch with people like him. Shoeb says first and foremost, cab-hailing apps should be made inclusive. "This feature is sorely needed not only for taxi apps, but also for other aggregators like food delivery and e-commerce platforms," he responded to TOI through a text message. 
 
 Shoeb, who is pursuing his masters at IIMB, is determined to spread awareness about the speech and hearing impaired. "Cab drivers often cancel my rides as I don't take their calls. I want taxi apps to include a feature to show we are hearing impaired, so that drivers can text us. It'd make a big difference for us and would also be a step towards inclusive India." Shoheb has started a campaign - #MakeUberAccessible and#MakeOlaAccessible - to draw attention to this concern. 
 
  In the last one year, Shoeb travelled in cabs over 20 times. But for every five attempts he made to book a cab, he was successful in boarding only thrice, he said. 
 
 "I cannot take calls made by drivers to tell them that I'm on my way. Sometimes, I give my phone to somebody next to me so that he or she can communicate with the driver. But it's not very safe to give your phone to strangers," Shoeb pointed out.
 
  His story goes viral online 
 
  Sho eb said cab aggregators have provided employment opportunities to deaf drivers. "If the driver has a hearing, speech disability, it's prominently displayed to the user. But the same is not extended when the users are hearing and speech disabled," he said. Being You, an online platform, has posted Shoeb's story and it has gone viral. 
 
 Shoeb's speech disability, however, never came in the way of academic achievements. He scored 95% in CBSE Class 10 in 2009. "During my initial schooling, I was taught lip-reading, writing and reading. At IIMB too, my professors have been very helpful and I have huge support from family and friends," he adds.
 
 
