Mohali: A 48-year-old man ended his life by jumping in front of a train in   here on Friday. In the suicide note he left behind,   resident   alleged that “constant harassment” from Chandigarh Police pushed him to take the step.

 Yadav said in the note that his employer’s house in Sector 33 had been robbed of Rs 1.5 crore on January 9, and his employer and the police had been harassing him over it. Chandigarh Police have denied the allegation and said they had called Yadav just twice for questioning related to the robbery. “I am innocent. I do not have the courage to face constant harassment from my employers and Chandigarh Police anymore for a crime I have not committed. I request everyone not to bother my family and I also seek forgiveness from my children for this extreme step I have taken,” read the suicide note.
 
 When contacted, DSP (south)   said they had called the deceased along with other domestic helps of the family simply for questioning. “We did not torture him in any way, physically or mentally,” he said.
 
 Yadav worked as a driver for Ajit Jain, a businessman who owns a cold storage in Mohali and whose house was robbed on January 9. 
 
 During investigations into the robbery, Jain and his family had told police that they suspected the involvement of their domestic helps, including Ajit.
 
 However, in his letter, Yadav alleged that as the Chandigarh Police were clueless in the robbery case, they had started harassing him mentally. According to Yadav’s family, the deceased was made to sit at the police station throughout the day on Tuesday and this could have made him take the extreme step.
 
 Zirakpur government railway police (GRP) have not registered a case against anyone on the basis of the suicide note. For now, they have initiated inquest proceedings under Section 164 of the Criminal Procedure Code (CrPC). GRP inspector Ram Pal, however, added that they would carry out a thorough investigation into the suicide.
 
 COPS CALLED HIM TWICE
 
 January 9: Jewellery worth Rs 1.5 crore robbed from businessman Ajit Jain’s house in Sector 33, Chandigarh
 
 January 13: Cops from Sector 34 police station call domestic helps of Jain, including driver Avinash Yadav, for questioning
 
 January 16 | Yadav is again called for questioning, and is made to sit throughout the day at police station 
 
 January 19 | He commits suicide by jumping in front of train in Dhakoli
 
 
