With his tough training schedule and back-to-back fights,  , who is mostly travelling between India and the UK, now gets very less time to spend at his home in Haryana. But the boxer keeps himself abreast of the current affairs in the state and also keeps track of the achievements of  's female boxers. But recently, what shocked him the most were the rape cases in the state. He took to Twitter to express his disappointment and wrote, "Feeling agonised by the disgusting rape and murder incidences in Haryana. Some people are actually demons disguised as humans. Remember we cannot flourish as a nation if we don’t respect and protect our women (sic)." Vijender was in Delhi recently, and while talking about women safety, he said that it is "very disturbing that not much has changed since the   gang-rape case in 2012." 

  
  
 
 He said, "I think it is not just in Haryana, the increasing number of rape cases everywhere is disturbing. It is horrible. People who commit such crimes are not scared about the law, and that is something to worry about."
 
  
  
 
 
  He added, "There should be very strict punishment for such heinous crimes and people should be aware of the laws and the punishment. I also feel that we need to make a change in the way we educate our boys and girls. Why have separate schools for boys and girls? They should be treated as equals and we should end the gender divide. We all can talk about it, but change has to start from every home."
 
  
  Vijender Singh (BCCL/ Ajay Kumar Gautam
 
 
  
 Vijender also visited Rohtak, recently, to interact with female boxers. He also said that that he feels proud of the talent in sports and other fields that has come from Haryana. "Be it the Phogat sisters or Miss World Manushi Chhillar, we have the best talent in different fields from Haryana. Haryanvis are the most hard-working people, they are soft-hearted too, but people think they are rude just because of their khadi boli," he said. Vijender added that when he meets young boxers from Haryana, he makes it a point to tell them a few things. "When I went to Rohtak and met some female boxers, I shared my experiences with them. Ab toh woh senior-wali feeling aati hai, so I tell them about diet and most importantly, how should one stay away from bad habits in our profession. I have been through that stage, so I share my experiences with them. One thing I always tell them is to work hard. Shortcut se kaam matt karo. Mehnat se kaam karo. Ek hi din mein sab kuch nahi mil jata, uske liye time lagta hai," he said.
 
  
 The boxer, who is now sixth in the latest WBO rankings for the super middleweight category, says that the perception of young boxers in India has changed over the years as they take the game more seriously now. He said that internationally, too, Indian boxers are being taken far more seriously than before. "When I entered national camp in boxing, my seniors used to think, 'Haan yaar, participate kar lete hain, we will get to go outside India, have fun and come back.' They never thought of winning medals. It was only after I started winning medals that the scenario and the attitude towards the game changed completely. My seniors never said good things, they would always say, 'Bach ke rahiyo bhai, knock out bhi ho sakta hai tu.' I always felt that I wanted to do something different. When I got medals, my juniors started to think differently," said Vijender, who is now planning to open his boxing academy soon, but didn’t divulge any details. "Things are being planned right now and I will speak about it when the right time will come," he said.
 
 
  
  
 
  
 Apart from the boxing ring, we have seen Vijender in TV shows and he also made his   debut with 'Fugly'. After his first stint, the boxer has stayed away from films. "I am not doing films right now, my complete focus is on boxing. My next fight will most probably be in the first or second week of April and I am preparing for that. I learnt a lot about acting from my first experience. It is not an easy thing to do. I realised that acting is not just about being in front of the camera, you have to know everything that happens on the sets. Doing one film was a very good experience as I learnt a lot. If I decide to do a film again, I will do a better job. I keep doing some reality shows and other stuff, but to me nothing is more glamorous than boxing, it is my passion and my identity," said Vijender.
 
  The last film Vijender was remotely associated with was Anurag Kashyap's 'Mukkabaaz' as he helped the lead actor of the film, Vineet Kumar Singh, train in boxing. "I introduced him to boxers and my coaches in Patiala, where he spent two-and-a-half months learning boxing. I have heard that the film presents the true state of boxing in small parts of India, but I haven't watched the film yet. Dekhiye, reality bahut kadvi hoti hai. Usko digest karne ke saath thoda fiction bhi add karna padhta hai. Aamir Khan ki 'Dangal' aayi thi, kya kaam kiya tha unhone usmein! What he did with his body was amazing. Ek character pe kaam karna, that is called acting. Yeh nahi ki bass masti karo, dance karo aur ho gayi acting," he said.
 
 
  
  
 
 
