BHOPAL: A 23-year-old youth, who was arriving in   to attend a relative’s marriage was kicked out of the moving   express   near Sukhi Sewania railway station, some 26 kms from Bhopal, by a co-passenger on Sunday. The youth sustained fatal injuries and died on the spot, while the accused was arrested.

 Accused identified as  , a resident of Sukhi Sewania area was returning to Bhopal after performing his mother’s last rites in Allahabad.
 
  
  
 
 
 Initial investigations by the police suggest the deceased and the accused were not known to each other. The dead youth identified as Ritesh Singh, 23, a resident of   in Allahabad was travelling with his cousin Sumit, 26.
 
 Talking to TOI, Sumit said, “We were travelling in the general coach to Bhopal to attend the marriage of a relative, who lives in Railway colony. On Sunday morning, Ritesh woke me up after the train left   station. The next stoppage was Bhopal, so Ritesh and I took our luggage and kept it near the gate and waited for the station.”
 
 
 ‘Ritesh was busy cracking jokes before he was kicked out of train’
 
 While we were talking to each other, the accused Rajmal Pal came out of the toilet and said “Me to marunga hi, tum bhi maro” (Anyway I am going to die, so you also die) and allegedly kicked Ritesh out of the train. Ritesh fell off the running train and died on the spot.”
 
 “For few minutes, I lost my senses, I was not able to understand what happened, some people ran to nab the accused. I ran and pulled the chain, hoping to save my cousin. But, before I could reach him, he died. He had sustained fatal injuries. I immediately called my relative in Bhopal and informed him, who contacted the police.”
 
 While talking to TOI, accused Rajmal said, “Mujhe Baba ko bali chadani thi isliye mene use maar diya” (I had to sacrifice a life, that is the reason I killed him).
 
 Police have arrested the accused. The deceased’s body was handed over to Sumit after the autopsy at   hospital.
 
 Sumit said, “I am worried how Ritesh’s parents will be able to handle themselves. As soon as I informed them about the incident, Ritesh’s mother has gone into a deep shock. She is not in a condition to travel to Bhopal.”
 
 Sumit said, “Ritesh used to work in a gas agency in Kareli and supported his family financially. His father also worked at a private store. Family’s financial condition is not well.”
 
 While recalling his last moments with Ritesh he said, “Ritesh was trying to make me laugh. He was cracking jokes while we were sitting near the train gate. Who knew that it was going to be his last laugh.”
 
 “Ritesh was dearest to all in the family as he always made people smile and helped all. He had no rivalry with anyone and I have no idea this happened to him.”
 
 Ritesh’s family had left Allahabad and will be reaching Bhopal on Monday morning. Sumit said, “We would most likely perform Ritesh’s last rites here in Bhopal only.”
 
 Police said, “The accused seems to be mentally unsound. He has shown no sign of remorse even after we apprehended him.
 
 “Rajmal also has no criminal background, ” police added. 
 
