HYDERABAD: With kidney disease count on the rise, an upgraded version of ‘peritoneal dialysis’ (PD) is fast gaining ground in the city. According to doctors, this overnight procedure of cleansing the system (instead of a four-hour hemodialysis session, thrice a week) is particularly in demand among working professionals, hoping to avoid the cumbersome process of the conventional dialysis. Considering that the cost of both is much the same — between ?25,000 and ?32,000 — makes things better.

 The peritoneal dialysis is a home-based therapy that does not require the patient to travel to the hospital frequently and does not involve blood or needle pricks, therefore, cutting out the fear of blood-borne diseases. The procedure can be performed at home by inserting a small tube in the peritoneum- the lining of the abdomen- to wash out the impurities. The blood is purified internally.
 
 “Also, this requires lesser dietary constraints leading to a better quality of life. PD as a treatment modality, has been proven to be as good as hemodialysis, which has been the conventional mode of dialysis. This new version is equally beneficial, safe and can be done by all patients. There are certain groups of patients who only require PD like children, elderly, those with cardiac issues and vision problems. Our data shows that more women on PD survive for a longer time,” said Dr  , professor and head of department, Nephrology, at the Nizam’s Institute of Medical Sciences.
 
 But while it is fast turning into a preferred method of dialysis, as it allows patients to continue with their daily work without disrupting their routine, the fact that it isn’t covered under   makes it a difficult choice for a large section of patients. “The benefits of the procedure is that it can be done overnight without any assistance (is done by a machine while the patient sleeps) and also helps maintain weight unlike hemodialysis. It is the preferred by people who have residual renal function. But the cost becomes a limiting factor for a lot of patients who are forced to opt for hemodialysis as it is covered under Aarogyasri,” said Dr  , consultant nephrologist, Maxcure Hospitals.
 
