NAGPUR: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s casual approach towards   of waste has once again come to fore. The civic body had launched the segregation of waste exercise with much fanfare on June 5 last year and had also announced to provide two separate bins to 30% property owners out of the total 5.5 lakh properties. However, it took almost nine months to shortlist a supplier from which the   will procure 3.30 lakh bins — including 1.65 lakh each green disposal units for wet and blue for dry waste.

 The proposal to procure dustbins from a Mumbai-based firm will be tabled before the standing committee meeting to be held on February 17. Each dustbin will cost Rs66.78 and for procuring 3.30 lakh bins, the NMC will pay over Rs2.20 crore to the firm. For the purpose, the NMC has deducted Rs2 lakh each from the ward fund of 156 corporators.
 
 Cash-strapped NMC hopes to save some money by renegotiating a contract with a machinery supplier. The civic agency had hired two high capacity suction and jetting recycling machines from   for seven years. The rate was to be increased every year as per the wholesale price index (WPI), which was 10% for the last few months. However, the NMC administration renegotiated with Aryan, which agreed for a 4% hike per year. The proposal has to be cleared by the standing committee.
 
 Another proposal for making Rs1 crore provision for mid-day meal scheme will be submitted by the education department before the standing panel. As per the department, it was decided that 60% of the total cost of the mid-day meal was to be borne by central government and 40% by the state. 
 
 “It was decided that for students in Std I to Std V, Rs4.13 per student per day will be spent on mid-day meal and Rs6.18 was to be spent on students in Std VI to Std VIII. It is advised that Rs1 crore should be spent on mid-day meal to better its efficiency and to increase enrolment in the mainstream education,” the proposal stated. 
 
 In all, 24 other proposals including two old ones will be tabled before the standing committee which include Rs84.79 lakh fabrication work of two water browsers by the fire department.
 
 
