NEW DELHI: Children as young as 11-year old are unable to   due to academic  , parental pressure, socialising and electronic media, among many reasons. As they grow older, a study conducted at Safdarjung Hospital shows, sleep deprivation increases and affects 84-87% of the 11-12 year olds and 91-93% of 13-15 year olds.

 Dr J C Suri, who led the study, told TOI that the evaluation involved 501 students, aged 11-15 years, from a chain of government schools in Delhi. Those who slept less than 58 hours and 10 minutes in a week — corresponding to eight and half hours of daily night sleep — were considered sleep deprived, Dr Suri explained. The results of the study are published in the latest issue of The Indian Journal of Paediatrics.
 
  
  
 The study determined that only around one-third of the students, in both the preteen and teen groups, went to sleep when they felt sleepy. The rest said they delayed sleep to finish studies or because their parents and siblings were awake or because they were busy socialising or watching TV.
 
 Suri said that if delay in bedtime reflected in poor attendance, which further affected the student’s   performance. “Mood too showed a positive correlation with bedtime; late sleeping time led to higher depression,” said Suri, who heads the sleep medicine department at the hospital.
 
 On weekdays, most preteens went to sleep around 10 pm, while the teens did so around 10.24pm and got up around 5.35am, thus logging less than eight hours of sleep. On weekends, bedtime was 10.30pm for the preteens and 10:54pm for the teenagers. The first group woke up around 7.52 am on weekends and the latter around 8:06 am. The extended hours of sleep on the weekends did not compensate for the sleep debt during weekdays.
 
 “Lack of sleep affects the academic performance and mood among others, so there is an urgent need to make the students aware about sleep’s importance. Parents, too, should be told to ensure their children got proper sleep for better health,” Suri said.
 
 According to Dr Sanjay Manchanda, head of Sir Ganga Ram Hospital’s sleep medicine department, the problem of sleep deprivation is likely to worsen as such children grew older. In the short term, lack of sleep can reduce attention span and alertness and affect memory and concentration. In the long term, psychiatric and mood disorders can result. Sleep deprivation is also linked with obesity, hypertension and attention deficit disorder.
 
 
