CHANDIGARH: Amid indications of a  , a set of nine new offices is being furnished in the  . New names are to be added to the council of ministers after chief minister   meets with party president Rahul Gandhi later this week.

 The secretariat was abuzz with talk of new entrants to the cabinet and a possible reshuffle on the existing ministers. “Whether the party would want to give balanced representations to all parts of the state, it would also want to have due representation of Dalits in the cabinet,” said a party leader. The rooms to be used as offices by the new ministers are located in third, sixth and seventh floors of the secretariat.
 
 Meanwhile, while there are speculations that   Gidderbaha MLA   could get a cabinet berth, he would soon pass on the baton as the Indian Youth Congress (IYC) president. Sources said that the Congress had recently interviewed the probable candidates and Warring himself was a member of the selection panel.
 
 Even though Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) and the Congress had talked about having a Dalit face as deputy CM before the assembly elections, the Congress would not want to have a new power centre ahead of the forthcoming Lok Sabha elections in 2019.
 
 “Some of the ministers who have done well could get additional portfolios. After former power and irrigation minister Rana Gurjit Singh resigned, his departments too are up for grabs. Over the past one year, there is also resentment among various lobbies against certain ministers and they are hopeful of a reshuffle,” said another leader.
 
 Where names of senior MLAs like three-time Dera Baba Nanak MLA Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, five-time Amritsar MLA O P Soni, four-time MLA from Ludhiana North Rakesh Kumar Pandey, Guru Har Sahai MLA Rana Sodhi, Jalandhar Cantonment MLA Pargat Singh and Verka MLA Raj Kumar Verka, there are speculations that chances of younger leaders like Vijay Inder Singla, Amarinder Singh Raja Warring and Kuljit Singh Nagra are also bright.
 
 ‘Warring to continue till new appointment’
 
 Clarifying that Amrinder Singh Raja Warring would continue to be the IYC president for now, Krishna Allavaru, in charge of Indian Youth Congress tweeted, “He is IYC president. He is an inspiration and we are proud of him. No resignation taken. He will continue to be IYC President till a new president is appointed.”
 
 
