NEW DELHI: The Continuous and Comprehensive Evaluation ( ) system was grossly misused by   for their benefit, claimed teachers. While it was meant to give a child an opportunity to breathe easy and realise his/her potential, eight years down the line, its improper implementation has caused much damage, they said.

 Although most teachers agreed that CCE was a good concept, the children it left behind are making a case against it. According to the teacher of a government school in Delhi, CCE was linked to Right to Education Act, but was followed superficially, creating a system inept at evaluating children in their real circumstances. “CCE understood that children can be good at sports or arts or performing arts. But how do you evaluate a class of 80-90 children on such criteria while doing justice to the assessment?” a teacher asked.
 
 The implementation was also subjective and unsupported, pointed out a Gurgaon private school administrator. “Each school interpreted it in its own way,” the administrator said. With this came the pressure from schools to accumulate the highest number of 10 CGPAs, triggering a competition among themselves. “But the whole idea of CCE was to get rid of the ranking system. They wanted to bracket children in grades so that there is no differentiation because of decimal points.” 
 
 However, what unfolded over the next eight years left children taking studies leniently, and teachers were forced to pass them without any real evaluation. “Schools were asked to submit the evidence for their evaluation to regional centres, but nobody knows how diligently those were perused,” said the administrator. 
 
 Now, among the Delhi government schools, the pass percentages unveil the real picture. At a school in Rana Pratap Bagh, only two students out of 33 have passed the  . The   for the same school was 100% last year. “The teachers have now been asked to cancel leaves from October to February. We will be forced to adopt ways to ensure a certain level of marks,” claimed a Delhi government mentor teacher. 
 
 Many teachers said the next few batches would be crucial. “The children who have been used to passing smoothly without working seriously will now be burdened with a large volume of syllabus. Any change in the system needs to be gradual,” said the administrator.
 
 
