COIMBATORE: The enrolment for Unique Disability Identity (UDID) cards had begun more than a year ago in the state, but it has generated only 19,680 cards till date.

  was one among the 14 states selected to implement the project in the first phase by the social justice and empowerment ministry in February last.
 
 With an 18-digit unique identification number, the card is designed to reduce the duplicate and fake entries and ensure that benefits reach the deserving people. But the cards have not reached majority of the beneficiaries due to lack of awareness and updated data, according to a source with the welfare of differently abled persons department.
 
 “As many as 5,542 differently abled people have been identified in the district. Enrolment process is on that too after conducting more than 35 special camps in recent times,” said the district differently abled rehabilitation officer, P Chandrasekar.
 
 Awareness among the people is very low and we have been trying to do our best to enrol all the beneficiaries by conducting more special camps, he added. There are more than 15,000 people with disability certificates in the district.
 
 Instead of carrying multiple documents, UDID card would usher in a single document system for identification and verification to avail all the government benefits, the official said. The card, he said, would also help to create a national database of disabled people.
 
 A section of differently abled people said the process was cumbersome. Without   card, we cannot apply for UDID card, said father of a 16-year-old girl suffering from autism. Despite several attempts, they could not complete the procedure. “Every time we take her to the centre, she becomes hyper due to anxiety. The authorities are not helpful,” he said.
 
 Smitha Sadasivan, member of  , said it would take a long time to issue UDID cards to all the disabled people. “We do not know if we have missed out anyone as we do not have a proper record. The department maintains a record of people, who have applied for disability certificates, but not the data of all the differently abled people. A lot of people were missed out in the 2011 census due to several reasons and the number of disabilities has increased to 21 after the census,” she said.
 
 Importantly, it is mandatory to mention the Aadhaar card number and disability certificate of the state government to obtain UDID card, she added. In many cases, people suffering from involuntary body movements, down syndrome and multiple disabilities do not have an Aadhaar card, she pointed out.
 
 According to her, most differently abled people find it difficult to visit the offices multiple times for enrolment, as they have to depened on their relatives and friends for the same.
 
 
