MUMBAI: The results of the JEE (Main) examination this year were different as each of the top six all-India rankers had scored 350 and the   had to apply several tiebreakers to rank them.

 
 Andhra Pradesh's Suraj Krishna Bhogi was eventually declared the topper, K V Hemant Kumar Chodipilli, also from the same state, stood second and Parth Laturia from Maharashtra's Nanded, who had gone to Kota to prepare for the exam, came third.
 
 Suraj has set his eyes on IIT-Bombay. Speaking to TOI, in between tackling the flood of congratulatory messages coming his way, he said: "I am thrilled. I did not follow any particular pattern to prepare for the examination. On an average, I studied for about nine hours a day. It is my perseverance that has paid off as I never got up from my books till I finished a particular topic." He said he had to cut down on cricket time — his favourite sport — to prepare for the exam.
 
 Hemant's regime wasn't too different. His rank, the young boy candidly admitted, came as no surprise to him. "I studied for five hours every day to prepare for JEE. With immense support from my college faculty members, I managed to score 350 in the exam. Since my parents live in Mumbai, I intend to seek admission at IIT there. My preferred stream is computer science," Hemant said from his home in Vizag.
 
 Parth had moved to Kota for JEE preparation. "The success in JEE-Main brought me a step closer to achieving my aim of becoming an engineer in computer science," he said. The son of a doctor couple, Parth chose engineering due to his interest in mathematics. "Everyone expected me to become a doctor but my inclination towards maths pulled me to engineering. I wanted to make my career in applied mathematics," said an elated Laturia.
 
 Maths wizard Bhaskar Gupta, at all-India rank 7 (345 score), is the Mumbai topper. "I am passionate about maths. I find the subject very easy as it has no theory, but only equations," Bhaskar, whose father is an IITian and mother is a doctor, said. 
 
 The overall cutoff for all categories slipped considerably, with the common rank list cutoff dropping from 81 to 74. Around 10,000 more students qualified this year to take the JEE (Advanced), the passport to the Indian Institutes of Technology. A total of 2.3 lakh candidates qualified for the Advanced exam — 1.8 lakh boys and 50,000 girls.
 
 
 
 
