Infamous for round-the clock jams in several areas, especially around Tin Factory in K R   and Graphite India junction, it is no wonder that traffic topped the list of civic woes bothering residents of Mahadevaura,   and   at the  's Bengaluru Forward event. The tale in the city’s tech corridor was only slightly different in  , Mahadevapura zone, where residents demanded an early completion of   work.

 While the Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Limited (BMRCL) has already begun Metro work to connect   and Whitefield, residents are unhappy with the pace of work.
 
 
 They say all motorists passing through Graphite India junction run into a bumper-to-bumper crawl during peak hours. Various authorities had promised residents that roads would be widened prior to Metro work to ensure smooth flow of traffic, but residents say those promises have not been fulfiled.
 
 “I take a BMTC bus from Graphite India junction towards  ,” said Zibi Jamal, a member of Whitefield Rising, a citizen forum. “During peak hours, it takes anywhere between 30 and 45 minutes to cross about 1.5 km on this stretch.”
 
 Work on extending the Metro line from Byappanahalli to Whitefield was scheduled to start in the middle of 2010. It was to be complete by 2016. However, the project has been delayed due to issues like land acquisition and tree cutting.
 
 Going by the present pace of work, the 15.5km line to Whitefield is likely to be completed only by 2020. It is likely to have 13 stations on the stretch. Interacting with the residents, BMRCL chief engineer M Srinivas said road infrastructure issues will be addressed to ease the traffic flow.
 
 Flyover at KR Puram
 
 K R Puram residents insisted that they suffer the most due to traffic woes. The problem is compounded on Fridays because of the rush of people heading out of the city. “Eighty per cent of motorists using KR Puram Main Road are only passing through,” said Sridhar MRK, from Akshay Nagar Residents’ Welfare Association, K R Puram. “Why can’t the civic agencies build a flyover for vehicles passing through? We don’t even have a service road that caters to local residents and we end up getting stuck in traffic.”
 
 He pointed out that Old Madras Road is the only viable route to reach the heart of the city for those living in east Bengaluru. Similar concerns about traffic gridlocks at crucial junctions were shared by residents of Bommanahalli and Yelahanka zone as well.
 
 
 
