BENGALURU: On October 9, 2017, thieves stole nearly Rs 23 lakh from an ATM in   of Raichur district. In November, constables Usman and Beerlingappa were felicitated for foiling an   in Marathahalli, Bengaluru. On December 18, a seven-member team from   landed in Coimbatore to interrogate an inter-state gang local police had apprehended, hoping to get confessions. 

 These stories in the second half of this financial year. But in the first half—April 1 to September 30, 2017—Karnataka saw thieves and dacoits steal eight times the money it had lost the whole of 2016-17, according to information accessed from the Reserve Bank of India (RBI).
 
 With Rs 7.96 crore lost to theft, robbery, burglary and dacoity in the said six months, the state has lost the most in the country too, accounting for more than 43% of the Rs 18.48 crore lost across India.
 
 These cases do not include debit and credit card frauds or use of technology to steal from ATMs or banks. “That all this money has been lost to physical acts, where people were present on the spot is what makes the number, which otherwise may not appear like too much, look bad,” cybercrime expert   said, adding that this exposes security lapse of a different kind.
 
 Karnataka, in fact lost nearly twice the money that Bihar, Chandigarh and New Delhi put together. The two states and union territory collectively lost Rs 3.8 crore and occupy the second, third and fourth place, respectively.
 
 Netrika Consulting Managing Director  , whose clientele include banks, says: “There are different ways of doing such crimes. We’ve noticed that in many cases the ATM machine is dismantled and towed away in vehicles, while in some others people hang around outside the ATMs and then cheat people who come to withdraw.”
 
 Faizan argues that a map of all ATMs, a closely-monitored CCTV network at these kiosks and regular patrolling need to be in place.
 
 In three-and-half-years between April 1, 2014 to September 30, 2017, Karnataka lost Rs 28.10 crore with the most reported this year, followed by Rs 6.40 crore in 2014-15. In this period, the state accounted for 16% of the total money lost in the country, which stood at Rs 175 crore.
  
  
 
