The year that went by will be remembered as a blockbuster year for  . While we can’t quite tell if the same magic will repeat in 2018, there is plenty to look forward to this year with a slew of big projects lined up for release. Let’s take a look at some of the most noteworthy ones:

 
 Chiranjeevi plays the lead in this ambitious period drama based on the life of iconic Rayalaseema freedom fighter  . Surender Reddy is helming the film featuring an ensemble cast of matinee idols from across South India like Nayantara, Sudeep, Jagapathi Babu and Vijay Sethupathi. This film sure has all the makings of a blockbuster! 
 
 
 It isn’t exactly a Telugu film technically speaking, but hey, it’s a   film and that too a sequel to the super successful Robo. What’s more it has Akshay Kumar playing the villain! Touted to the most expensive Indian film ever, 2.0 promises to whip up a mass hysteria once again when it hit’s the screens this summer. 
 
 
 The Baahubali series catapulted Prabhas to national and even international fame. And ever since the teaser of Saaho was released featuring Prabhas in futuristic flying suites, the buzz surrounding the film has amplified. Directed by Sujeeth, the film marks the Telugu debut of Shraddha Kapoor. With a slew of Holly-wood stuntmen helming the action sequences, the movie promises to be a blast!
 
 
 Whether it was Jalsa or Attarintiki Daredi, every time   and Trivikram Srinivas teamed up they created a sensation at the BO. So the expectations surrounding their next are naturally sky high. The big question on everyone’s mind is will the actor-director do score a hat trick this time? Time will tell.
 
 
 Set in the backdrop of the 1980s, Rangasthalam is a period film which features Ram Charan playing a villager. The Mega Power Star’s rustic makeover has been the talk of the town ever since the first look of the actor was released. Also this is the first time Sukumar is collaborating with Ram Charan, so it would be stating the obvious to say, this film is one of the most awaited of the year. 
 
 
 He may have had a terrible run at the box-office of late but you can never write off Ram Gopal Varma, can you? The maverick filmmaker is going all out to turn the clock back to his glory days as he’s teaming up with   for this action drama. Will it be able to recreate the magic of Shiva? We’re not sure, but as they say, never say never!
 
 
 Venky and   will be sharing the screen in this ambitious web-series based on the assassination of former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi. Noted Kannada filmmaker AMR Ramesh, known for controversial films 
 such as Cyanide and Attahasa is directing this multilingual web-series. This one could be a game changer.
 
 
 From the looks of it, AWE seems like the quirkest film of the year. Why? Nani plays a fish in the movie while Ravi Teja plays a tree? Confused? Nani will give the voice over for a an animated fish while Ravi Teja will do the same for an animated tree. Kajal Aggarwal, Nithya Menon and Regina Cassandra play the leading ladies! Need we say more?
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
