As the city takes steps towards implementing various measures to improve its solid  , head of Swiss cooperation office and counselor Marylaure Crettaz talks to TOI about the challenges the city faces 

 
 
 There is a huge problem in collection and processing of waste as we see dump yards and landfills have mixed waste. This mixed waste is a big issue, and it is all around the world. As cities in India are growing, it will accumulate into larger problems
 
 
 
 Segregation is the only solution. First we need to segregate waste at the source and it has to be the first step. Swiss expertise and Swiss practices are also being replicated in India. In  , we do not have an option as we have very strict waste calendar - On Monday, we give paper, on Tuesday we give organic waste, Wednesday - glass and so on. We have a system on pay bags. The bags that we use for collecting waste needs to be purchased separately. So we need to think what we put in the bag as it costs us 2 dollars for 32 litres. So we cannot put all waste into it.
 
 
 
 When we look at the emission in different cities, we found that waste is also generating greenhouse gas emission especially methane. In Coimbatore, 8% of the total emission in the city is from solid waste. Changing the mind set of people to implement the measures is also a challenge. It is a state of mind as we need to be conscious about everything we throw away. Even in Coimbatore, we have implemented source segregation and are trying to implement a similar type of calendar. Bio-degradable waste will be collected on one day and dry waste on Wednesdays.
 
 
 
 We should have zonal plants as 475 tonnes can be processed in bio methanisation plants. Recycling can happen at ward level. The municipal workers take recyclables as it adds to their income. The remaining waste that cannot be recycled and is mixed to a certain extent goes to   (refuse derived fuel). This waste should go to an incineration plant that can be set up or sent to cement plants that function in the district. So, we propose an incineration plant that needs to be cleared at the state government level. 
 
 
 
 We are planning to spend Rs 6.5 crore per city for expertise and infrastructure. Under Capacities, four cities have been selected - Rajkot, Udaipur, Siliguri and Coimbatore. We will design and develop projects for the city. We will also have pilot interventions in places where we think it could be scaled up such as the bio methanisation plant that was launched in R S Puram on March 15.
 
 
