The 16th Federation Cup National Junior (U-20) Athletic Championship saw several athletes from all over the country fight hard to win a medal for their state. The athletes were put under severe test due to the scorching sun and a difficult track to cope with. But, K   from the city continued his wining streak to add yet another medal to his name and for  .

 The 19-year-old triple jumper went on to win a gold medal (15.85m) in boy’s triple jump category. Kamalraj had just won a silver medal in the 8th Asian Indoor Athletic Championship at   in February. Talking about the win Kamalraj says, “I was in a great shape and had trained well for the tournament, but just a day before the event started I fell sick. I had severe cold and fever. I couldn’t give my best and I achieved only 15.85m missing the national record by a whisker (National record-15.91m). I was pretty confident that I would achieve 16.30 and break the record, but unfortunately because of fever my body was weak and I couldn’t do much, I am disappointed about missing the record.” He had recorded 16.23m in Asian Indoor Athletic Championship a couple of months ago.
 
 “My coach asked me to rest and take medicines. I didn’t warm up or train after I fell sick. I also didn’t take any injection to clear the dope test before the event. I just rested well and turned up for my event. But, I badly wanted to take part in the event at any cost because this event serves as trial for the upcoming Junior Asian Athletics Championship ( ) and World Athletics Championship (Finland). Though I had already qualified for both tournaments, I wanted to win here because they might also check the recent record before the tournament and I didn’t want to lag behind,” he adds.
 
 But just like many other athletes and officials did, Kamalraj also felt the track was not in a great shape. “I don’t think the track was up to the mark; they just relaid the triple jump track a couple of days before the tournament. In fact, I was lucky because my track wasn’t as bad as the running track. Athletes from other states felt it was really in a bad state and found it extremely difficult. Had the track been better, I think many athletes from Tamil Nadu would have won medals. Sadly, though, the track has been like this for quite a while, no one seems to care about it.”
 
 However,   is happy that he has won a medal for Tamil Nadu. “Yeah, I am happy that I won a medal for the state, but still disappointed about missing the record because I have been doing it frequently. I will be heading to Trivandrum soon to train for the Third South Asian Junior Championship at Colombo, which will be held on May 5.” 
 
 
