INDORE: A high influx of   in  , state’s largest industrial belt, has created a dearth of residential accommodations leaving employees high and dry spending hours in travelling every day from neighbouring areas such as Indore, Rau and Mhow. 

 According to Pithampur Audhyogik Sangathan, at least 20,000 accommodations are required in Pithampur at present to cater to the workforce, which is growing at a rate of 7 per cent every year. Presently, around 70,000 registered labourers are working in Pithampur.
 
 An industrialist Rohit Khandelwal said, “It’s sad that we have a severe dearth of residences in Pithampur and employees have to travel long distances every day to report to work.   is a basic necessity that should be immediately met with for proper working atmosphere.”
 
 Most of the people employed in industries of Pithampur spend about 2-2.5 hours in travelling every day, industry players said. 
 
 Some of the industries have built girls hostel for their female employees, while a few have developed small colonies for their workforce, raising eyebrows of officials about its legality. 
 
 Another industrialist Anand Chouhan said, “Safety of female employees is a big concern for us because they have to travel long each day. State authorities should focus in this regard and proper integrated development should be done.”
 
 Industrialists said more affordable houses should be developed in the area to cater to maximum people while HIG colonies should also be built for executives.
 
 Chouhan said, “People get monthly salary and they can very well afford to rent or purchase houses if property is available.”
 
 Rapid industrialisation in Pithampur has seen large influx of people coming from different cities to work in recent months. In January alone 6 new companies were allotted land to start their facilities.
 
 The state government has allocated Rs 450 crore to the industry department for the fiscal year 2017-2018 for developing roads, industrial parks and ecosystem among others in the region. 
 
 
