MUMBAI: As   leader Prakash Ambedkar declared Wednesday’s one-day state-wide bandh over at 4pm at his office in Ballard Estate, he cautioned the government that future protests could not be guaranteed to be peaceful if those behind the Koregaon Bhima violence remained free.

 “It is now the responsibility of the chief minister to ensure future protests do not turn violent,” said Ambedkar, the grandson of Dalit icon Babasaheb Ambedkar. He said that the government should charge   and Milind Ekbote for inciting mobsagainst people who had gathered at Koregaon Bhima on January 1 to commemorate the “victory” of the British forces comprising Mahar soldiers over the Peshwa’s men on January 1, 1818.
 
 “If these people are not arrested then people will not keep quiet,” said Ambedkar.
 
 He said that barring a few incidents in the city where TV journalists were heckled by the crowd, the protests on Wednesday were largely peaceful. “If action is not initiated, I cannot guarantee the same in the future,” said Ambedkar. “There are 250 organisations that backed us in the bandh on Wednesday; I will not be able to control the anger within the community if action is not initiated.”
 
 Ambedkar congratulated his supporters on holding a “peaceful protest” despite emotions and anger running high among them over the Koregaon Bhima violence.
 
 “The Supreme Court while hearing the Mumbai blast case has said that even if   was not present at the incident site, he knew of conspiracy. Similarly these two (Bhide and Ekbote), even if not in Pune, knew of the plan and were inciting the mob,” said Ambedkar.
 
 While Bhide Guruji runs the Shiv Pratishthan Hindustan, Ekbote is from the ‘Samast Hindu Aghadi’. Ambedkar demanded that the two be charged under Section 302 of the Indian Penal Code. “There are several rightwing organizations in the state that are creating a social divide and fuelling communal tension in the state. It’s for the people to decide whether they need this kind of atmosphere in the state or want change,” said Ambedkar.
 
 He said that besides Dalits, many marginalized communities supported the bandh on Wednesday because their contributions towards the state were being questioned by those in power and the government was just a mere spectator in all this.
 
