NEW DELHI:   has made shocking revelations about the state of affairs at   claiming that a large-scale   was being run by an   who fled from   a month ago.

 On February 19, the inmate, Sandeep Dhillu, was brought to Maulana Azad Dental Hospital for treatment. In what is termed as an extremely callous move, the jail administration sent him to the hospital in a private Eeco car even though he was a high security cell inmate. Dhillu managed to flee with the help of his associates by opening fire and sprinkling chilli powder at the policemen.
 
 While Dhillu is still at large after a month, Special Cell claimed to having nabbed a few men who had allegedly helped him flee. In a statement, Special Cell DCP (II), Pramod Kushwah, said that their interrogation has revealed that Dhillu had been running an extortion racket from inside the jail.
 
 “His close associates — Paramjeet, Radhey and Naresh — used to collect the extortion money from businessmen of Delhi and Haryana. As Dhillu was in jail from a long time, the amount of extortion money kept reducing. He then ordered his associates to hatch his   plan,” Kushwaha claimed.
 
 A probe is on to ascertain whether Dhillu was carrying out the activities in connivance with jail officials. Asked for comments, Tihar spokesperson said that they haven’t received any communication from Delhi Police.
 
 Kushwaha added that Dhillu hatched the plan with his close associates Naresh and Paramjeet and Sonu Bawana and Ritik, who are also on the run.
 
 Last week, Crime Branch arrested one Salman and Special Cell nabbed Rohit and Deepak for being part of the conspiracy. They gave the inside information on interrogation. “The gang chose the hospital as there was heavy police presence in court. Weapons were arranged from arms dealers and Dhillu began visiting the hospital for teeth problems,” Kushwaha said.
 
 The first attempt to free Dhillu was made on February 9, but the plot failed due to poor coordination. The gang regrouped later and chalked out minute details.
 
 “Usually, prisoners are brought for dental OPD on Tuesday or Friday. On these days, more security staff is deployed, so it was difficult for the gang to execute the escape plan. Dhillu soon managed to get an OPD visit on Monday and conveyed this to his associates who then orchestrated his escape,” Kushwaha said.
 
 Tihar has been on the boil since the past six months and attracted stern comments from the Delhi high court and a HC-appointed panel to look into the deteriorating law and order situation inside the jail.
 
 
