Vadodara: Alarmed by the devastating fire which engulfed M S University head office last week, university’s construction division on Monday issued a missive restricting any public gathering at places across the campus till the time such places receive no objection certificates (NOCs) from the Vadodara Fire and Emergency Services (VFES). 

 In the urgent circular issued to all faculties and institutes, the construction division has not only asked all the auditoriums located in the campus to get NOCs from VFES but has also drawn out a list of 12 places considered to be “most vulnerable” and 25 places including heritage buildings, laboratories and computer centre considered to be “vulnerable” in the campus. 
 
 VFES had served a notice to MSU for not having a proper fire fighting system at the university head office after Chandra Mohan, the former student of Faculty of Fine Arts, had torched the waiting room at the head office on Friday afternoon. 
 
 In fact, many a staffers working at the head office had feared for their lives as the exit door towards the canteen itself was locked at the time of incident. 
 
 “We have issued a strict circular to all concerned to follow fire norms and stop operating auditoriums unless and until NOC from fire department is received,” university engineer N K Ojha confirmed. 
 
 “All the faculties and institutes have also been asked to chalk out disaster management plan with permission of all the concerned local bodies while allowing public gatherings on the campus for any kind of celebrations,” he said. 
 
 In 2009 when over 60 students of Faculty of Arts had collapsed at C C Mehta auditorium due to suffocation in the jam-packed auditorium, the construction division had issued a similar circular directing all faculties and auditoriums to get NOCs from the fire department. 
 
 Ojha himself had personally processed the NOC for C C Mehta auditorium. 
 
 But while there are couple of auditoriums which have adopted fire safety measures, many deans, head of institutes and other officials are completely unaware whether auditoriums, laboratories, libraries or other buildings have proper fire safety system in place. 
 
 A couple of deans to whom TOI spoke to did say that they have kept fire extinguishers at their premises but many of them were not aware whether they have received the required NOC from VFES. 
 
 “I will have to check with the concerned person,” said professor J D Jadeja, dean of Faculty of Management Studies, which houses the recently constructed Pandit Deendayal Upadhyaya Auditorium. 
 
 Professor A C Sharma, dean of Faculty of Science that houses several laboratories while the building itself has a lot of heritage value, admitted that the faculty needs to upgrade itself when it comes to fire safety measures. 
 
 “We do have fire safety instruments because of which we have been able to contain a couple of minor incidents of leakage at our laboratories. But it is also true that periodically checking of this instruments is not happening and we need to have a proper disaster management plan with evacuation strategies in place,” he said. 
 
 “Also, we try to educate our students to properly park their vehicles so that in case of emergencies such haphazard parking does not become a hurdle. But such parking discipline is missing,” he added. 
 
 
