DHARAMSHALA: In a blow to the Tibetan administration, an event scheduled on Saturday to mark the beginning of the 60th year of the Dalai Lama’s stepping on to the Indian soil was cancelled at the last minute.

 According to an official statement issued late on Friday, the   (CTA) said the event stands deferred till further notice. The announcement immediately sparked rumours of the Dalai Lama’s unwillingness to attend the event. The CTA, however, has rubbished them all. 
 
 On March 17, 1959, Tibetan spiritual leader the Dalai Lama had escapted to India from  , and the McLeodganj-based Tibetan government-in-exile was to mark the 60th anniversary of this event on Saturday. The Tibetan administration was earlier to mark the Thank You India programme in Delhi, but it was shifted after the Union government issued a note asking senior dignitaries to not participate in it in the light of India–China relations. 
 
 A group of Tibetans have started a protest against their political leadership, including prime minister Lobsang Sangay, and plan to continue it till March 24. Sangay deflected media queries, saying everybody has the right to protest in a democracy. 
 
 “The Dalai Lama was scheduled to leave for Jammu in the afternoon. But he left in the morning, which led to the cancellation of the event planned to mark his journey from home to exile,” a Tibetan activist said. He demanded that the Tibetan administration make an official announcement on what transpired at the last minute which led to the cancellation of the event.
 
 Denying the allegations, CTA official spokesperson Sonam Norbu said, “The event was cancelled only because the Dalai Lama had to leave for Jammu for a programme.” 
 
 Alleging injustice, the protesters also demanded the impeachment of Sangay. “The way   , a representative of the Dalai Lama was sacked, was unjust. The Tibetan cabinet is doing wrong and as Tibetan citizens, we are fighting to protect the integrity of Tibetan administration,” claimed Thinley Kelsang, a protester who had come from the US. Tsering was sacked in November 2017.
 
 
