IDUKKI: After the land scam, another controversy has erupted in the Syro Malabar Church. This time around, the ruckus is over the historical validity of the claim that   the apostle had visited Kerala.

 Three days ago, bishop Geevarghese Mor Coorilos of the Niranam diocese of the   said St Thomas hadn’t visited the state and did not convert upper caste Hindus to Christianity.
 
 Syro Malabar Church official spokesperson and senior priest belonging to Enakulam-Angamali diocese Fr Paul Thelekatt too agreed with the Niranam bishop: “There is no valid evidence to prove the visit of St Thomas to Kerala. It is believed that he visited Kerala in the first century and converted brahmins to Christianity. But the migration of brahmins to Kerala began only in the 7th century, indicating that such claims were false. The fact is that a group of people followed Christianity for several centuries in Kerala.”
 
 Syrian Christians in Kerala believe that St Thomas had visited Kerala and converted the upper caste Namboothiris to Christianity. They believe St Thomas had also built eight churches (also known as 7.5 churches) in various parts of Kerala. The Syrian Christians are also known as St Thomas Christians. "Even the Pope has made it clear that St Thomas had not visited Kerala. But a certain section among Kerala Christians have been nursing a certain caste bias claiming to be descendants of upper caste Hindus who were converted to Christianity,” said Fr Thelakkat. In fact, Syrian Christians in Changanachery, Pala and Kanjirappally claim that they belong to upper caste Hindu families converted by St Thomas. Most of the families in these areas reportedly claim they hail from “Athi Puratana Katholika Kudumbam”.
 
 However, Kerala Catholic Bishops Council (KCBC) doesn’t seemed to be amused over the controversy.
 
 “There is no need to discuss the issue now. Those who raised the issue should solve it,” said KCBC official spokesperson Fr Varghese Vallikkatt.
 
 But church sources pointed that Fr Thelakkat’s statement was made in connection with the ongoing land controversy in the   archdiocese and the tiff between the Ernakulam-Angamali diocese and the Changanacherry archdiocese respectively.
 
 “How did Thelekatt suddenly get a revelation that St Thomas never visited the state? There are ample evidences to prove that he actually did visit the state. The seven churches and the other symbols also prove that St Thomas came to Kerala,” said Dr  , a senior priest belonging to the Changanacherry archdiocese.
 
 “Some Protestant historians have been to claim that St Thomas never visited Kerala. But the fact is that a group of Christians had lived in Kerala as St Thomas Christians,” said the priest.
 
 “Changanacherry archdiocese believes that St Thomas indeed visited Kerala and that he converted upper caste Hindus to Christianity. Now, the Ernakulam-Angamali archdiocese is trying to prove that it is a false claim,” say sources.
 
