CHANDIGARH: The resident welfare association (RWA) of  's Modern Housing Complex has asked police to upgrade the area's security systems and install the promised 150   (closed-circuit television) cameras, in the wake of a spurt in crimes such as snatching and vehicle theft. The association has raised six points in its letter to director general of police T S Luthra. 

 The association stated that the housing complex had the protection of a boundary wall and five guards but only police and the Municipal Corporation of Chandigarh can plug the breaches in the wall give the area more sentries. The RWA says that two years ago, police had recommended to install security cameras in Manimajra, a project that the civic authorities have failed to implement on the ground. The resident welfare association is short of money to do the job on its own. Residents await local member of Parliament (MP)   to get them the cameras she had promised them last year during a visit to Manimajra.
 
 In 2016, when crime increased in Manimajra, the station house officer (SHO) had conducted a survey in the area to find out what action could help lower the graph. Based on a 2016 survey, the area SHO wrote to the resident welfare association that since theft, snatching, and a few other crimes had increased, the police department recommended installation of at least 150 CCTV cameras across Manimajra for constant monitoring of the vulnerable spots.
 
 Since the RWA doesn't have money for a project so big, they approached the MP for financial assistance. Her promise of help that came during one of her visits to this part of her constituency hasn't resulted in any action, despite reminders to her for releasing the money for the cameras. In its latest reminder, the RWA asked Member of Parliament Kirron Kher about the assistance she had promised under the MPLAD (member of Parliament's local area development) scheme.
 
 Residents wrote to her why surveillance cameras were necessary to control the crime in Manimajra. They referred to the survey based on which police had prepared its estimate. The association demanded deployment of the regular beat staff at Manimajra, saying only the permanent presence of men in khaki would deter the miscreants. The residents also called for regular meetings between the RWA and police.
 
 RWA president Colonel Gursewak Singh of Modern Housing Complex said all the points raised in the communication to the DGP were vital to the safety of the residents.
 
 
