BHOPAL: Even as crimes against women often hit media headlines in the city, there are a sizable number of men who are victims of violence by their spouses, but have no option but to bear and grin.

 According to  , it gets on an average one complaint from men daily after they get assaulted by their wives.
 
 Figures indicate that in the past two months around 68 men called the helpline number claiming that their wives have been assaulting them and they need help.
 
 Whenever Dial 100 vehicle reaches the spot following a complaint, cops usually find wives and children beating the complainant.
 
 Dial 100 PRO   said, “Earlier we did not have a separate category for men getting assaulted, but when the officials noticed rise in such cases, we decided to categories it separately as ‘husband beaten’ from November 1, 2017.”
 
 “Earlier such cases were categorised under domestic violence in which the the gender of victim was not clear. Dial 100 staffers have been provided special three-day-training programme so that they are able to deal with such cases. Most of such cases have been received from   area,” Sharma said.
 
 Figures also revealed that at least 846 such complaints were received across the state in the last two months.
 
 Of the total cases, 70 were from Indore, 68 from Bhopal, 52 from Jabalpur, 39 from Gwalior, 30 from Ujjain, 26 from   and 37 from Chhindwara and 24 from Sagar.
 
 According to Dial 100 officials, in most of the cases, men were thrashed because they reached home in an inebriated condition after which they tried to harass their family members and as a result they were assaulted.
 
 Officials said in such cases when cops go on the spot they try to get the matter resolved on the spot and counsel the accused. But if men are not satisfied with with the patch-up bid, police take them to the police station so that he can get their complaint lodged.
 
 In the last two years, around 37 lakh cases were received by Dial 100, of which around one lakh cases were related to domestic violence.
 
