The Australian cricket team or its prominent players have been involved in controversies over the years which have had serious repercussions in the fraternity and beyond. TOI lists six of those incidents in the last four decades.

 
 
 
 It was just a year ago that   publicly acknowledged suffering a ‘brain fade’. After being adjudged out lbw in the second Test against India in Bengaluru, Smith was seen looking to the dressing room for guidance on whether or not to go for a review against the on-field decision. It invoked a strong reaction from Indian captain Virat Kohli, who alleged that Smith and the other Australian players had used similar tactics previously as well.
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 In the second Test at SCG which saw the confrontation between Harbhajan Singh and Andrew Symonds famously known as ‘monkeygate’,   claimed that Michael Clarke’s catch of Sourav Ganguly was clean even after the ball had appeared to hit the ground. Following the incident, India lost dramatically and captain Anil Kumble went on to say, “Only one team was playing in the spirit of the game.”
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 Controversies were a constant companion during Shane Warne’s illustrious career. The biggest of them all came just prior to the 2003 World Cup when Warned was banned from the game for a year after testing positive for a banned diuretic tablet. It could have jeopardized Australia’s World Cup campaign if not for the vast resources at their disposal.
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 With New Zealand requiring six to win off one delivery, Australian skipper Greg Chappell instructed his younger brother Trevor to deliver the ball underarm during an ODI at MCG in 1981. Chappell’s objective of preventing NZ from pulling off a win was achieved as Brian McKechnie, who was on strike, tamely defended the ball before throwing his bat away in disgust. While bowling underarm was within the rules of the game at the time, it was considered against the spirit of the game and led to a change in laws.
 
 
 
 After losing the first two Tests against India, things went from bad to worse for Australia in the 2013 series when four players – Shane Watson, Mitchell Johnson, James Pattinson and Usman Khawaja – were axed for the third Test in Mohali. They had failed to complete a task assigned to the players by coach Mickey Arthur in what has come to be known as ‘homeworkgate’.
 
 
 
  
  
 Hours after a loss to England in the 2013 Champions Trophy, David Warner attracted unnecessary attention when he was involved in a pub altercation with Joe Root. It led to the Australian left-hander being suspended for the remainder of the Champions Trophy and fined a hefty sum of AU $11,500 by Cricket Australia. He publicly apologised to the now-England captain, who accepted it. Warner, in the past, has used the social media to attack his critics, including veteran Australian journalists, calling one of them “old fart.”
 
