NAGPUR: The committee screening farmers’ suicides in Yavatmal district has decided that the case of Prakash Mangavkar, who hung himself after allegedly leaving a suicide note on a leaf blaming Prime Minister   for his condition, is not a case of agrarian distress. Only if a suicide is declared as due to farm distress, the kin of the deceased get compensation of Rs1 lakh.

 After suicides increased in the region, a committee was set up in each district to judge whether a person ended his life due to farm distress or personal reasons.
 
 Mangavkar was the first farmer known to have left a suicide note blaming Modi or any other political leader. This was followed by another farmer, Shanker Chayre, from neighbouring Rajurwadi. A suicide note submitted by his kin after his suicide blamed Modi regime for his problems. Chayre’s case is under scrutiny.
 
 Mangavkar had committed suicide in September 2017. The committee submitted its decision in December 2017. Activists of  , who brought the issue to fore, said the decision was made public only after they approached the tehsil office a few days ago.
 
 Devanand   of the Samiti alleged the case was rejected because the deceased had named Modi, which has left the ruling BJP embarrassed. “The initial report submitted at the village council level had mentioned farm distress as a reason. However, a month later, the findings were changed at the tehsildar’s level, where the case was turned down. The second report was accepted by the committee,” said Pawar.
 
 Vidya Mangavkar, the deceased’s wife, called it an insult to her dead husband. “It is understandable that the Prime Minister could not visit us, but at least the case should have been considered for compensation,” she told TOI over phone.
 
 “I am now left with a seven-year-old boy, who needs regular medical treatment. I have discontinued my daughter’s studies, and she is working at a jeweller’s shop at Ghatanji taluka. My husband tilled a two-and-a-half-acre farm, which hardly yielded anything. He had purchased a pickup vehicle hoping to increase income, but failed. The vehicle was funded by Mahindra Finance,” she said.
 
 Vidya said their financial troubles had left her husband worried. They had to discontinue their son’s studies at a private school in Ghatanji. He had a loan of nearly Rs4 lakh, including that from a cooperative society, claims the wife.
 
  said that grounds on which the case has been rejected are baseless. It was noted that Mangavkar did not own land and was only farming on rented land, which is not true, he said.
 
 Kishore Tiwari, chairman of a state government agency on farmers — Vasantrao Naik Shetkari Swvalamban Mission (VNSSM), said one of the reasons for rejection was that the deceased had a loan from a private company for non-farming purposes. “He had applied for a loan waiver under the state’s scheme, and was eligible for waiver of farm loan. However, government should change the norms, and consider other loans too while judging the crisis,” he said.
 
 
