Nearly 960 educational institutions, including 100 engineering and  , have been pulled up for submitting records of fake students to claim scholarships intended for dalit and tribal students.

 
  
 College managements misappropriated funds worth Rs 45 crore by submitting application forms for dropouts and others who were no longer part of the attendance roll, said a senior official from the state  . The department has sent notices to all these colleges asking them to return the funds.
 
 As a result of the scholarships being misused, the department has slashed funding by one-third, leaving thousands of genuine applicants from SC/ST communities in the lurch.
 
 Under the post-matric scholarship (PMS) scheme, adi dravida and tribal students with an annual family income of less than Rs 2-Rs 2.5 lakh are provided scholarships which cover tuition fees, maintenance allowance and non-refundable deposits. A total of Rs 1,500 crore was spent last year towards this scheme, funded jointly by the state and Centre, according to official data. This was 127% more than what was spent in 2014-15. In an attempt to probe the unusual increase in spending towards this scheme, a local fund audit was conducted recently. “The final audit report stated that a total of 964 colleges misappropriated funds by submitting 20 different types of fake records,” an official from the department told TOI on condition of anonymity.
 
 College managements were found receiving funds for students who moved to a different branch for which the tuition fee is comparatively less.
 
 A few others were found receiving multiple scholarships from the government, contrary to the scheme’s guidelines. In Chennai, many students receiving first-generation scholarships were found receiving PMS scholarships too. 
 
 S Jeeva Bharathi, a Class XII student who is planning to apply for the scholarship this year, said his fathercannot afford to spend on the education of all four children in his family. “So, we have to either apply for a bank loan or ask local moneylenders,” he said.
 
 Students are worried as application forms for other scholarship schemes offered by the department are also unavailable. This includes the Higher Education Special (HES) Scholarship scheme for reimbursing accommodation expenses of students. 
 
 “We usually borrow money to pay for accommodation and repay it once scholarship amount is credited. If the government stops this, we will be forced to quit our studies,” said S Kanagaraj, a student from Coimbatore.
 
 
