CHENNAI: The ruling   on Friday announced a five-day public rally in the Cauvery   districts, beginning April 25, demanding that the Centre comply with the   order on constituting a mechanism to regulate water release. Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami will speak in Tiruvarur and deputy CM O Panneerselvam in Nagapattinam. 

 The move comes when arch-rival DMK led by its working president M K Stalin, its allies and like-minded parties have been organising black flag demonstrations, agitations and rallies. With the opposition training its guns on the government for its “failure” to get   constituted, the ruling AIADMK is keen to win over the farmers. Panneerselvam camped in New Delhi on Thursday and met Union ministers Arun Jaitley and Ravi Shankar Prasad, but no positive signal was forthcoming on the Cauvery issue, source said.
 
 “Our meeting is aimed at taking to the masses the efforts of the AIADMK governments in establishing the state’s rights over Cauvery water. The opposition is unleashing a false campaign for political gains. The government is keen on taking on the battle both legally and politically,” law minister C Ve Shanmugam told TOI. 
 
 The minister, who took part in the hearing last time, alleged that DMK betrayed the interests of the state in the past. Along with its principal ally, Congress, DMK failed to get the 2007 final order of the Cauvery water disputes tribunal gazetted despite being part of the UPA government at the Centre. It was only due to Jayalalithaa’s persistent efforts the order was gazetted in 2013. “The DMK could not wait for 30 days given to the Centre to form the authority,” the minister said. 
 
 Last week, the DMK and allies announced it would organise a human chain protest in district headquarters on April 23. Stalin also wrote a letter to   seeking an audience with him. “We have a chief minister, a slave, who could not get an appointment with PM. A resolution has been passed by us to meet him and represent our case. If we get an appointment, I am ready to take the CM as well. Till then, our protest will continue,” Stalin said, at a wedding in Tiruporur on Friday.
 
 
