It was an evening of celebration when prominent ladies of the city got together and spoke about their mothers and muse. Organized by  , at Bhartendu Natya Akademi, Gomti Nagar, the event witnessed a housefull show. The main reason behind organizing such an event was to pay a tribute and remember  , mother of scriptwriter Atul Tiwari, on the occasion of her first death anniversary. The chief guest and key speaker for the evening was  , actress, social activist and a theatre artist. 

  
  (L)   (R) Atul Tiwari (BCCL/ Farhan Ahmad Siddiqui)
 
 The event started off with a video and song 'Hey Vandaniya Apki Smriti Ko Pranam Hai' which was appreciated by all. This was followed by a short film on the life of Pushpa Vati Tiwari, which made everyone emotional. Atul Tiwari talked about his mother and said, "I strongly believe that if my father brought the needy ones to home, then it was my mother who brought the bread to the table." 
 The speakers for the evening were Dr Rakshanda Jalil who spoke about her muse Dr Rashid Jahan,   about her mother Razia Sajjad Zaheer and Shabana Azmi about her mother Shaukat Kaifi. Salima Hashmi, daughter of noted Urdu poet Faiz Ahmad Faiz, who couldn't make it to the event, sent a video where she shared her thoughts about her mother and inspiration Alyas Faiz. To talk about the values that her sister held, was  , sister of Pushpa Vati. Getting a tad emotional at the event Asha said, "We lost our mother at a very early stage, since then she was our mother and sister. The way she managed and handled everything was just commendable."
 
  
  (L) Anjali Tiwari (C) Dr Asha Yashwant (R) Fatima Abbas (BCCL/ Farhan Ahmad Siddiqui)
 
 Last but not the least was Shabana Azmi, who spoke about her mother Shaukat Kaifi, too was in an emotional state of mind and had tears while speaking. "My mother was a remarkable woman. I have gained and imbibed my values from her. She was my idol and an ideal critic for my work," said Shabana. 
 By Prachi Arya
 
  
  (L) Dr Rakshanda Jalil (R) Kanak Rekha Chauhan (BCCL/ Farhan Ahmad Siddiqui)
 
  
  (L) Meenu Narain (R) Noor Zaheer (BCCL/ Farhan Ahmad Siddiqui)
 
  
  (L) Saba Zaidi (R) Roop Rekha Verma (BCCL/ Farhan Ahmad Siddiqui)
 
 
 
