CHANDIGARH: Shubman Gill’s father   is a reticent man by nature, but he whooped with joy twice during the India-Australia U-19 World Cup final. Once when Harvik Desai hit the winning runs, and the second time when his son was announced as the Player of the Tournament.

 Lakhwinder broke into an impromptu bhangra step after Shubman was announced the Player of the Tournament. Soon, Keart Gill, Shubman’s mother, and Subeer Hayat, Shubman’s childhood friend and a cricketer, joined Lakhwinder and the trio celebrated the triumph of Indian colts in a typical Punjabi way.
 
 “This is the best day in my life. We are elated at the performance of our son and the whole Indian team,” Lakhwinder, an agriculturist told TOI. “It is a proud moment for us, for the entire Punjab and the country that our team won the final.”
 
 Shubham’s mother said, “I had prayed for Shubi at a local gurdwara. During the entire tournament, I performed Ardaas regularly. The almighty has answered our prayers. The sacrifices we made to make our son a cricketer have finally borne results.”
 
 
 
 
 
 To watch the final match, a big screen was installed since early morning on the premises of the society where the Gills reside. A festive atmosphere pervaded the area. The Gill family, though, kept off media and guests till the match was over.
 
 Once the match ended, the media persons began entering Lakhwinder’s house. Lakhwinder clearly didn’t enjoy the amount of attention that was piling on them. Still, he soldiered on and pleased one TV crew after the other.
 
 “He (Shubman) kept his promise. Before leaving for  , he had promised me that he would help India win the World Cup and he has done that,” said Lakhwinder. “I am confident that if Shubman remains focused and keeps practising hard, he will make it to the senior Indian team very soon.”
 
 Shubman scored 31 off 30 balls in the final and emerged the second highest run-getter in the tournament with 372 runs, including three half-centuries and a ton against Pakistan in the semis.
 
 “When he (Shubman) plays with us, he is a team by himself, and against him there is a team comprising eight other boys. Still he defeats us hands down,” said 17-year-old Jashanpreet, who stays in the same society as Shubman’s.
 
 “Shubman is an icon for us. The way he has played in the World Cup, I would like my kids to become like him. This is all because of the hard work he has put in from the age of 5 or so,” said Manu Goyal, a resident of the society and a scientist at PGI, Chandigarh. Shubman’s family, relatives and friends have planned a grand welcome for him on his return home for his brilliant performance in the World Cup.
 
 
