KOLKATA:   and goals go hand in hand. The India captain and   striker is currently the top scorer amongst Indians with eight goals in  , Season 4, and just four goals shy of overall top-scorer   of FC Goa.

 
 Chhetri has forged a great partnership with Venezuelan Miku and the duo has played a key role in Bengaluru FC’s campaign in the ISL. With 24 points from 12 games, BFC are very much in the title race. And if they go on to win the ISL in their maiden appearance in the competition, BFC, who had also won the I-League in in their debut season (2013-14), will end up with a unique ‘double’.
 
 Chhetri, however, is not ready to look too far ahead.
 
 “I am always happy to be among goals as long as we have the right results to go with it,” said Chhetri. “About winning the title, we are still a long way off. First, we have to qualify for the play-offs, then contend with a two-legged semifinal and then dream about the final. We have a good squad and if we keep performing consistently, it would be interesting to see where we end up,” he added.
 
 Bengaluru FC face ATK on Saturday with the defending champions in a state of disarray. But Chhetri — who netted the winner when the two teams met last month — made it clear that his team will approach the match with utmost seriousness.
 
 “Delhi Dynamos weren’t in great form when we travelled to the national capital and we know how that game turned out for us (Bengaluru FC lost 0-2 on January 14). The game against NorthEast United, who aren’t too high on the table, was one of the toughest games this season. So, we won’t really be looking at ATK on the basis of their form alone,” he stressed.
 
 Chhetri, of course, has a strong connection with Kolkata. He had played for   and   and is now married to city-girl Sonam Bhattacharya, daughter of former Bagan captain Subrata Bhattacharya. “I’ve played so much football here and have a lot of good memories. I will always cherish those as it’s been a part of my journey,” he said.
 
 Chhetri also wished the India under-19 cricket team good luck for their World Cup final against Australia on Saturday, saying he is confident the youngsters will bring laurels to the country.
 
 
