BENGALURU: There could be a   implication for the severance pay received by former   CFO  . A portion of the Rs 17-crore payout related to the non-compete clause may come under the service tax ambit, sources told TOI.

 This tax angle could become a source of concern as large severance payouts with accompanying non-compete clauses become common in India. What part of the overall payout relates to the non-compete clause and would come under the tax on services is a complicated calculation and depends partly on the view taken by the tax authority, an I-T expert said.
 
 Taxes on services are now part of GST. In 2015, when the Bansal severance pay agreement was signed, the service tax rate was 14.5%. TOI requested Bansal for a comment, but none had come at the time of going to print.
 
 K R Girish, founder of tax advisory firm KR Girish & Associates, said non-compete clauses have long been a litigious issue from a tax perspective. "Non-compete clauses are usually structured to mean you cannot take any employment of similar nature for a considerable time, thereby reducing substantial revenue-earning potential. There may be no employer-employee relationship in this, but the taxman could argue it's still service being rendered in the past. If the individual is not paying service tax because he is not registered under it, the taxman can issue a notice to the company to discharge the service tax obligation," Girish said.
 
 When Bansal left the firm in 2015, Infosys had agreed to pay him Rs 17.38 crore as severance, the equivalent of 24 months' pay. But it disbursed only Rs 5 crore and halted the remaining payment on the grounds that Bansal had gone back on some commitments. Bansal has invoked his rights to an arbitral tribunal and the case is going on.
 
 The severance agreement, a copy of which TOI saw, has listed 19 terms, including non-disparagement. The “covenant not to compete” clause reads: “….You will not take up a position in finance organization of the following firms Accenture, Wipro, Cognizant, IBM and TCS, for one year after your last day.” TOI requested Bansal for a comment, but none had come at the time of going to print.
 
