NOIDA: The district and sessions court has issued a   against five persons accused of killing   youth leader Shiv Kumar Yadav and his two guards in Noida Extension on November 16 last year.

 Ajay Kumar Sharma, the SHO of Bisrakh police station, said the cops were looking for Sahdev Bhati, Anil Bhati, Sheru Bhati, Pradip alias Bhola and Amar. “The police department has announced a reward of Rs 50,000 on the arrest of each criminal. They have been absconding since the  ,” he said.
 
 The Bisrakh police had raided the houses of the five accused but failed to nab them. They have now moved an application in the court seeking to attach their properties.
 
 In connection with the triple murder, teams of the Noida STF and police had arrested three persons — Arun Yadav, his aide Dharmdutt Sharma and Naresh Jaat, a shooter of the Sunder Bhati gang — on December 4. The police had said Arun had planned Shiv Kumar’s murder to avenge the death of his father Mahendra Yadav, who was a head constable in UP police. Mahendra had died in an accident on March 8, 2004, but his family had alleged that it had been orchestrated by Shiv Kumar. On December 12 last year, the police had arrested another shooter, Anirudh Bharadwaj (24), in connection with the triple murder.
 
 Yogesh Yadav, the BJP leader’s brother, said they had been demanding a   probe for long. “The main accused Arun’s brother Amit is a police inspector in Aligarh. We suspect he is influencing the probe, which is why we want the CBI to investigate the case. Amit’s role should also be investigated,” he said.
 
 Yogesh said the district administration had provided the family three police constables for security. “The district administration withdrew the constables on February 14 when a local MLC demanded a CBI probe into my brother’s murder in the legislative council. We fear for our safety as some of the criminals are still at large. We have requested the government to put three constables back for our security and also issue us a licence for a gun,” he said.
 
 Shiv Kumar, the convener of the BJP Yuva Morcha in Noida, and his two personal guards were shot dead by a group of assailants who fired indiscriminately at their Toyota Fortuner. The three were rushed to Fortis Hospital in Noida, where Shiv Kumar and one of his guards were declared brought dead. The other guard succumbed to injuries later that night.
 
 A 14-year-old girl was also hit accidentally when the gang was chasing Shiv Kumar’s car. She, too, died in a Noida hospital. Shiv Kumar was returning from a school he owned in Haibatpur when he was attacked.
 
 
