MEWAT:   Mewat district neighbouring Gurgaon has decided to form its own committee of ‘gau rakshaks’ after a series of attacks on its residents by vigilante mobs. One of the earliest victims was dairy farmer Pehlu Khan, who was lynched in Alwar in April last year, by a mob that believed he was smuggling cows.

 The Mewatis’ initiative to form their own ‘gau rakshaks’, which cuts across community lines, is an attempt to right this perception and prevent more attacks on people legitimately transporting cows.
 
 The decision was taken during a panchayat in Punhana’s Bichhor village, where a penalty of Rs 52,000 was also pronounced on anyone found slaughtering a cow and Rs 31,000 on smugglers, besides social ostracisation. It comes on the back of ulemas advising Mewat residents two weeks ago to stop transporting cattle at night.
 
 The panchayat was held last Sunday in the wake of around half a dozen instances being reported in the recent past of cow owners being mistaken as smugglers. The latest victim was Talim Hussain, a 23-year-old, who was killed in a police encounter in Alwar last December. Hussain’s family claimed he was just a driver who took contract jobs and was not associated with cattle smuggling in any way.
 
 The 15-member gau rakshaks’ committee, which includes social leaders and people from both the Hindu and Muslim communities, will monitor all cattle movements and inform police if they detect any   Apart from filing police complaints, the committee has also pledged to proscribe those going against the panchayat’s directives. Two hundred representatives from around a dozen villages attended the panchayat, which also announced a reward of Rs 11,000 on anyone sharing information on cow smuggling or slaughtering.
 
 “For some money, people slaughter cows without realising this can have a negative impact on communal harmony in the district. We have already lost our two sons,” said Ekbal Jaildar, a community leader from Punhana, and a member of the newly formed committee.
 
 The Jamiat Ulema-e-Hind, at a meeting in Alwar’s Shivaji Park area in December last year, had advised Mewatis to transport cattle only during the daytime, and with proper documents. The Jamiat also announced that anyone transporting cows during the night would be termed smugglers, and won’t receive any support from community leaders.
 
