CHANDIGARH:   and   are ready to lock horns once again and this time, over  , since the Punjab government has outright rejected the offer of restoration of Haryana’s share in Panjab University. The Punjab government filed an affidavit in the Punjab and Haryana high court on Wednesday stating that the Punjab government was against the proposal of the Haryana government to provide share to the PU if the university affiliates the Haryana colleges.

 “…Haryana cannot arrogate itself the privilege of altering history as and when it wishes. Punjab government strongly opposes any attempt to change the present status of the university in any form. However, the government is open to increasing the grant-in-aid for the university, through a mutually consultative process…,” read the reply filed by the government. The Punjab and Haryana high court had sought the views of Punjab government on restoration of Haryana’s share in the management of Punjab University.
 
 “Punjab has nothing to do with our share in the Panjab University. We are not asking for Punjab’s share. This was a conspiracy against Haryana. Punjab disrespected us and now, we are going bring back what was ours. The students of Haryana should also have the facility to study in colleges with the affiliation of the Panjab University. Ours is a legitimate share,” said Panchkula MLA Gian Chand Gupta adding “The matter is already in the court and now, that the Punjab government has filed the reply, we will fight this out in the court.”
 
 Gupta recently had met PU chancellor and Vice President M   and had apprised him about Haryana’s proposal for the university’s affiliation. During meeting, MLA Gupta raised the issue that according to Section 72’s sub-sections (3) (4) of Panjab Re-organisation Act 1966, PU Chandigarh was the joint property of the states Punjab and Haryana. The Haryana state had representation in the senate and syndicate which are the governing bodies of the campus. But this system was discontinued in 1997. He had proposed that the Haryana government will provide Rs 13 crore annually to the university, if it affiliates the Haryana colleges.
 
 “The government of Haryana cannot take advantage of the ongoing proceedings in the Hon’ble Punjab and Haryana high court. The transitory financial resources problem and its resolution by the statutory stakeholders do not permit the government of Haryana to turn back the clock,” reads the reply filed by the Punjab government.
 
 What the V-C says
 
 Panjab University vice chancellor   said, “Such decisions are to be made by the home ministry, not by PU. Punjab’s response has several other dimensions, which are untenable by the past or present facts.”
 
 
