NEW DELHI: Citing  ,   is planning to hand over five of its   to the Centre. The   is, however, yet to approve the proposal moved by commissioner Madhup Vyas.

 The committee would consider the proposal to hand over the hospitals — Hindu Rao, Kasturba Gandhi, MVID, Giridhari Lal and Rajan Babu Institute of Pulmonary Medicine & Tuberculosis — its chairman Tilak Raj Kataria said.
 
 Hindu Rao is the biggest multi-speciality hospital under north corporation. Kasturba Gandhi Hospital, on the other hand, sees the highest number of deliveries annually. RBIT is the biggest facility for tuberculosis patients.
 
 Neglect and mismanagement at these facilities, however, have been well documented.
 
 The proposal stated: “ ... the handing over of the hospitals and medical college will reduce the annual financial burden of north corporation by about Rs 600 crore, which can be utilised for augmentation and improvement of remaining public services. These health units have a combined sanctioned staff strength of 6,773 under various categories, of which 4,741 are actually posted, including regular and contractual staff (sic).”
 
 In the proposal, the corporation cited previous instances of civic institutions being handed over to the Delhi government. These included the fire brigade, Delhi Vidyut Board and Delhi Jal Board, it said. “Static resources, such as land and equipment, can be handed over using similar formula, as was done in the past. Regular medical and paramedical staff can either opt to serve in the central government as ex-cadre employees, or stay with the corporation,” the proposal stated.
 
 Kataria said the standing committee had no objection, in principle, to the proposal, “but we did not have enough time to study it”.
 
 Senior corporation officials said under the Delhi Municipal Corporation Act, there was a provision to hand over liabilities to either state or central government if a civic body was under severe financial distress. “As per the Act, the civic body is only authorised to look after primary health care. The decision of handing over hospitals to central government is that of the deliberative wing,” an official said.
 
 Though north corporation employs nearly 900 sanitation workers at its five hospitals, the conditions are nowhere close to standards required at a health facility. Officials blame the trifurcation of MCD for the mess.
 
 
 
