MUMBAI: Soon, homebuyers will have the freedom to pick the size and shape of the rooms in their flats without having to settle for the pigeon-hole design set by the developer. At present, there are specifications for sizes of rooms in apartments, which the Development Control Regulations ( ) 2034, once implemented, will do away with. 

 
 
  
 
  This willenable greater customisation in consultation with builders. Forinstance, those wanting a bigger drawing room could create one by removing the wall of an adjoining room without having to worry about   action. The only condition: don’t disturb the sanitary lines and structural members.
 
 A official from BMC’s   (DP) department said, “Tillnow, a flat needed to have one room large in size like 9.5 sq metres while other rooms could be 7.5 sq metres approximately. But now this is not being specified and flat owners can choose to design their flat in the way they want as long as they are conforming to the Development Control and Promotional Regulations.” However, he added that, structural members and sanitary lines of the building should not be disturbed. “This is to avoid complaints of leakage from residents,” he said.
 
 However activists expressed concerns that the decision may open the floodgates to various problems. Advocate   said most of the complaints he receives are for leakages in flats. “One needs to understand that a lot of thinking and planning goes into designing of flats before construction of buildings. Therefore fiddling with it later could have adverse effects. The authorities would need to be extra careful now as under the pretence of redesigning the house, people may tamper with several elements of the structure,” he said.
 
 The Development Plan-2034 has also proposed terrace gardens in buildings, over and above the mandatory open spaces. “Earlier, special concessions were required for developing gardens at terrace spaces. Now in new buildings this would be permitted and a part of the rulebook. However this provision would not be allowed in existing buildings,” said an official adding that this is being done to improve the green areas in the city.
 
 
