MUMBAI/PUNE: A day after the bicentenary of a   battle with the Peshwas—marked by Dalits as a momentous episode in their history—was marred by   between the commemorating group and right-wingers opposed to the event, violent Dalit protests erupted across the state on Tuesday. While arterial roads and railway tracks in Mumbai’s eastern suburbs were blocked for over six hours, orders prohibiting unlawful assembly had to be issued in parts of Pune and Aurangabad to prevent crowds from forcing commercial entities to shut. Net services were shut for 24 hours in Aurangabad city starting midnight on Tuesday. 

 Thousands of Dalits had gathered at   on Monday to mark the clash in which Mahars, who joined the British against the “casteist” Peshwas, had put up a valiant fight. Top state Dalit leaders were present, as were AIMPLB member Maulana Azhari and activist Umar Khalid. Gujarat’s new Dalit face Jignesh Mewani addressed a rally in Pune.
 
  
  
 
 Police said 25 vehicles were torched by members of right-wing groups opposed to the gathering. They also damaged 50 vehicles by pelting stones. A 28-year-old youth died following the clash.
 
 While CM Devendra Fadnavis ordered a judicial inquiry into the Koregaon Bhima violence, a CID probe into the death of the Pune youth and compensation of Rs10 lakh for his family, his announcements failed to pacify Dalit leaders, with   calling for a Maharashtra bandh on Wednesday. The Shiv Sena, known for enforcing bandhs in Mumbai, had till late Tuesday evening not issued any counter call to thwart the Bahujan Republic Party's (BRP) call.
 
 Congress president Rahul Gandhi hit out at the Centre, tweeting that BJP’s “fascist vision” was to blame for increasing incidents of violence against Dalits. Rahul hailed Tuesday’s protests as “potent symbols” of Dalit resistance against the Modi government’s “anti-Dalit” policy. NCP chief Sharad Pawar blamed the BJP-led state government for inept handling of the situation in Koregaon Bhima.
 
 Though sections of the media reported that the Koregaon clash was between Marathas and Dalits, Ambedkar said that was not the case and blamed Hindutva groups with an alleged Brahminical bias. He said the judicial inquiry ordered by Fadnavis was not acceptable and demanded it should be conducted by a non-Dalit judge. He blamed Sambhaji Bhide of Shivraj Pratishthan and Milind Ekbote of Samasta Hindu Ekta Sabha for inciting Monday’s violence.
 
 Though Ekbote refuted all charges, Pune police on Tuesday booked him and Bhide on charges of attempt to murder, among other charges of the Indian Penal Code, and under the Arms Act and Atrocities Act. Pune city police have transferred the case to Pune rural police at Shikrapur for further action.
 
 Rajendra Kondhare, general secretary of the Akhil Bharatiya Maratha Mahasangh, said, “There is no question of Maratha versus Dalits in Koregaon Bhima. In fact, Maratha organisations had supported the commemoration and (Saturday’s) rally at Shaniwarwada to mark the event. Sambhaji Brigade was active in facilitating the event. Some people are trying to confuse issues by mixing two matters. There was a dispute over a board near Sambhaji Maharaj’s samadhi at Wadhu. But there was a compromise between Marathas and Dalits and the matter was settled much before the Koregaon Bhima event. That has no connection with what is happening today.” 
 
 Additional director general of police (law and order) Bipin Bihari said the situation in Koregaon Bhima was under control but admitted protests had spread. Protestors also resorted to stone-pelting at state transport and other public transport vehicles and blocked roads, including the Pune-Mumbai Expressway and the old Pune-Mumbai Highway.
 
 Pune district collector Saurabh Rao said seven companies of the State Reserve Police Force have been deployed and Section 144 (prohibiting assembly) has been enforced in the four affected villages of Shikrapur, Koregaon Bhima, Vadu and Sanaswadi.
 
 Union home minister Rajnath Singh spoke to Fadnavis on Tuesday. Sources said he may make a statement in Parliament on the issue on Wednesday.
 
 Eight police personnel were injured in Mumbai on Tuesday. While protesters in the morning started downing shutters in Thane, Mulund, Ghatkopar, Powai, Ulhasnagar and Kalyan, a rail roko was staged in Mulund and stones pelted at motorists in and around Ramabai Nagar, a predominantly Dalit locality, in Ghatkopar at around 10am. Protesters blocked the Sion–Panvel highway near Chembur and marched towards Ambedkar Garden, forcing shops en route to shut.
 
 A total of 154 buses were damaged across the state, including 20 BEST and 4 State Transport (ST) buses in Mumbai alone. The BEST buses were damaged in incidents across the suburbs, including Mulund, Chembur, Deonar and Kurla.
 
 
