A few days ago, musician   once again became the muse for online trolls. A fan stuck out his phone to click a   without the permission of the singer, who was getting out of his hotel in New Delhi for the   ceremony. Yesudas, who was not amused, first asked the fan to delete the photo, then proceeded to grab the phone and deleted the picture himself, while telling those present that “selfie is selfish”.
 
 Netizens were quick to poke fun at the musician for losing his cool. However, there are some who also justify Yesudas’ stance. As selfies with fans now become a part and parcel of being in the public domain, we ask a few celebs if taking a selfie is indeed selfish and some pointers fans should keep in mind:
  
 
 
  
 On Yesudas losing his cool, musician   says, “I will never have the courage to go to Das sir and stick out a phone on his face to click a selfie. I might politely ask for his permission. He’s a senior artiste who has been continually spinning magic all these years and you have to respect that.”
  
 Asking for consent is a must, says Shaan, adding that fans who have clicked selfies with him have always done that and he had obliged. “Even in between friends, we ask for permission,” he says.
  
 Agreeing with him, actress   says, “Of course, a person would want to take a photo with a celebrity because it increases their likes on their social media page. But the simple rule is that you have to ask the other person’s permission, and it is their prerogative to say yes or no. If they say no, then you should be able to accept that with grace.”
 
  
  
 The actress points out that this aspect is now being increasingly overlooked. “Celebrities now find themselves being treated as things – like a statue or a monument that serves as a background for a selfie. I think a bit of courtesy is required; treat them as a person you want to take a photo with. Mutual consent will only make it smoother for both parties,” she says.
  
 
  
 No, not the setting of the phone camera, but the mood of the celebrity and situation, says Lena. “If it’s a temple or during a pooja, then it should be common sense to not think of a selfie,” she says.
  
 The actress describes an instance where selfies were hurdles when she was trying to balance her falling luggage on a trolley. “I had just arrived from Australia at the Cochin International Airport. One of my luggage boxes was torn and things were falling out. It was also raining outside, so I was desperately trying to keep everything inside the trolley. But in the middle of all this, people were busy clicking selfies without even one person extending a helping hand,” she recalls.
 
  
  
 Meanwhile, Shaan says there were certain instances in which selfies were awkward. “At times, I would be nursing a cold and my face would be ruined and a selfie is definitely not what the doctor prescribed,” he says. Also, whenever the photos are requested while he is spending time with his family, it can be vexing, the composer says.
 
  “My son doesn’t like me taking selfies with other people. That’s because when I am with him, he wants me completely for himself. So, when I pose for selfies, he gets peeved,” says Shaan. “Also, what happens most of the time is that people ask for selfies when I am about to step into my car. I would be stuck. My one leg would be inside the car and my family would be sitting inside.”
 
 
  
 Shaan though says he now finds the humour in the inconvenience. “There was a time when I craved for this attention. I wanted people to take photos with me. So, when it’s happening I really don’t want to complain,” he says.
 
  
  
  Selfies have now become an occupational hazard of sorts, says  . “As actors, we have all wanted this sort of attention and once we have made it, we can’t all of a sudden hide behind the glasses. This is what we all signed up for,” he says, adding that fans have always asked for his permission before clicking a selfie.
 
 However, he says those who seek selfie must also be considerate to the other person. “We might be in a depressed state of mind or be going through a personal problem, and at that time smiling for the camera can be hard,” the actor says. “Also, being a celebrity doesn’t mean you have to oblige for every selfie – especially at inopportune moments like when you are running to catch the last train or flight.”
 
 
  
 Actress Isha Talwar though says that she enjoys clicking selfies with fans more than the normal photographs. “As an actor, I don’t have a problem with it. I prefer a selfie as I can see what I am looking like in it than in a photo someone is snapping far away at an odd angle,” she explains.
 
  
  
 While she says the selfie craze would die down eventually, Isha admits that she has not been bothered by it. “It has become a movement of sorts. There are cell-phone companies that are riding on this trend of being able to provide devices that can click the best selfie. We think we have come up with something revolutionary but it’s the pinnacle of narcissism. However, as an actor, you are a public figure and personally, I have not been bothered by it. If I don’t want it, I would politely refuse,” she concludes. 
 
 
