PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: A team of the civic body officials and police personnel on Friday inspected seven properties, including six municipal offices, for selecting a suitable site for the proposed new police commissionerate in Pimpri Chinchwad.

 Ravindra Kadam, the joint commissioner of police, Pune, said, “There is a high chance of the state government announcing the creation of the new police commissionerate for Pimpri Chinchwad. We are trying to identify the suitable sites for the office of the commissionerate.”
 
 Chief minister Devendra Fadnavis recently said in the assembly that the report for the creation of a police commissionerate for Pimpri Chinchwad had been received, prompting the Pune police to initiate steps to be prepared for the creation of the new commissionerate.
 
 A Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation ( ) official said, “DCP (deputy commissioner of police)   inspected the six municipal offices and a property of Pimpri Chinchwad New Township Development Authority (PCNTDA) in the city during the seven-hour-long inspection with other officials on Friday. We first visited the old PCNTDA office building in Nigdi. The PCMC’s F-Zone office operates out from there on rent. Later, we visited   in Chinchwad, the under-construction commercial complex in Chinchwadgaon, G-Zone office in Thergaon, C-Zone office in Nehrunagar, the technical school in Pimpri and Hedgewar Bhavan in Akurdi.”
 
 He said, “The police officials told us that they require an office building with cabins and open halls, where 200 policemen can be seated. It should have wide access to roads for daily movement of a large number of people. They require parking space, too.”
 
 He said, “The police officers found the old PCNTDA office building in Nigdi and Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Municipal School in Chinchwad suitable for the proposed new commissionerate office on temporary basis till a new building is constructed for it. The police team inspected the rooms, cabins, toilets and other facilities in all the buildings to check their suitability for the commissionerate office.”
 
 Bhosari MLA Mahesh Landge said, “I had raised the subject of a separate police commissionerate for Pimpri Chinchwad in the assembly during the discussions on supplementary demands of the budget. I pointed out that industrialization and urbanization is increasing in the city. The municipal limits will also be expanding.”
 
 
