Chennai: Would you spend Rs 3.5 lakh in 7 minutes to propose? But for 27-year-old Augustine that was what he wanted to splurge to make his proposal unforgettable. In Tamil movie ‘Remo’ style, he got startup The6.in to burst 150 rockets in a 3 kilometre radius to ensure the sky was lit bright, when he asked, “Will you marry me?”

 From hiding a ring inside a slice of cheesecake to having it baked inside a fortune cookie at a seaside restaurant, couples these days are trying to make it extra special before they pop the million-dollar question. Taking proposals to a new high, couples in India have started taking to the air on chopters, renting a band to serenade outside the loved one's balcony in moonlight.
 
 Indian startups like Oye Happy, The6.in, Mostly Handmade, Thrillophilia, Celeberry work to make the special day seemingly smooth and effortless. They hire private yatches with air balloons that spell out - "Will you marry me?" to 6-feet gift box that opens out to reveal balloons, a ring and the prospective finance. 
 
 And its not just for couples. What if you wanted your teen to get over the angst of going to boarding school? You could surprise her with a Hogwarts themed send-off, including express tickets for boarding from Platform 9¾, Charing Cross London.
 
 For Augustine and Sandra’s surprise, the team at The6.in and 100 other technicians worked for 3 days to make it happen. “We had to construct a walk-in, which would light-up with every step Augustine took. We also had to arrange for people to be stationed at a distance of every 100 metres for the surrounding 3 kilometres to ensure the entire sky will be lit up, when he asks her the question,” says Shakthi, co-founder, The.in.
 
 "We took Sandra at around 8 to a farm villa at Kolathur, where we had already done the decoration, lighting and stage set-up to resemble the Tamil movie Remo. We'd even hired 7 high-definition cameras, a drone to ensure it was shot just like the movie..and then came the proposal. She cried and cried and kept saying, ‘didn’t expect this,” adds Shakthi.
 
 Some others do surprises for a cause. Baby Vishwath’s parents wanted a surprise for their son Vishwath's 1st birthday. But it was not for him. They planned the surprise instead for 11-year-old cancer patient Vimal. “He was so happy that day. We took him to a mall, watched a delivered a carrom board and a Playstation to him in Tiruppur. It is a bittersweet memory as Vimal is no more,” says Shakthi.
 
 Brands also have pitched in when it comes to ‘surprises for a cause.’ For instance Preethi Kitchen appliances sent a newly-wed couple mixie, stove, grinder and other kitchen appliances as a token of good wishes. But, they were not the only ones, social media ensured that others also pitched in to help them get a 32-inch TV, fridge, sofa, queen-size bed, etc — so that differently-abled couple Raji Arumugam could start afresh. The duo had met and married at a swyamvaram, but where disheartened that they had to start their married life with nothing in hand — when startups stepped in and ensured them a furnished house.
 
 
 
