NAGPUR: Melghat Tiger Reserve (MTR) in Amravati will go for ‘Kula Uran’, a new model of eco-friendly protection huts prepared by the department of architecture of Visvesvarya National Institute of Technology (VNIT) students. The prototype was on display at ‘Tiger Tech’. 

 ‘Tiger Tech’, a daylong project presentation competition, gave platform to young minds to come out with solutions to problems grappling wildlife and forest. The maiden event was organized by MTR at VNIT on Sunday. Of the total 85 projects received for the contest, 42 were shortlisted but 39 were presented.
 
 “We would certainly channelize some of the ideas and solutions in the field of wildlife and nature conservation that came up in the event,” said MTR chief conservator & field director MS Reddy.
 
 The VNIT’s eco-friendly protection hut prototype bagged a cash prize of Rs51,000 for overall best project. Sameer Deshkar, assistant professor with department of architecture who mentored the project, said: “Kula Uran has been designed with purely local style and material. Even in peak summer temperatures remain cool and during rains water doesn’t leak inside due to quality of grass available locally.”
 
 “We also have an option to use thermos-press tiles and of new eco-friendly material onduline. With material available in the same area its cost will around 30,000 each, cheaper than concrete structures,” said Deshkar.
 
 Another group of students from VNIT’s computer science & information technology (CSIT) also won cash prize of Rs21,000 for developing a prototype of video-based sensor, which involves curbing man-animal conflict by installing camera traps in problem areas to capture images.
 
 “Our project mainly aims to provide a solution to prevent human interference in the forest. An alert system is being developed which would alert both the forest managers and the rangers to compel them to take action. We are also using machine learning to make our system learn and identify about the different flora and fauna in forest,” said Pranav Gollapudi, a student and part of the team. Melghat officials have shown keen interest in this project too.
 
 All the presentations by students were displayed at an exhibition, which was earlier inaugurated by VNIT director Narendra Chowdhary and PCCF (wildlife) AK Misra. The concluding function was graced by Justice Sunil Shukre and HOFF Shree Bhagwan. The juries included experts from respective fields — BT Ingole, Kishor Rithe, Manoj Chandak, Aneesh Andheria, Bhushan Kasturiwale, TSK Reddy and VA Maslekar.
 
 Considering spurt in electrocution of wild animals to save crops, most of the projects highlighted solar fencing with new modifications. PR Pote College of Engineering, Amravati, came up with a sensor fence that raised alarms from 6 metres. “There is also a night vision camera which would alert the farmer about presence of animals at his farm. Per acre cost of the project comes to Rs25,000,” said SS Mendhe, professor with mechanical department.
 
 Two BE students   and   from vulnerable Nagbhid in Chandrapur came up with a prototype of distribution unit which stops electricity theft from meter.   students also displayed an ultrasonic sensor alarm system to stop wild animals approaching the farms.
 
 Jaydeep Das, coordinator of Tiger Tech, said, “This was the first experience, but it is for sure that a thinking process among engineering students about problems facing the department has begun. Several designs came up, which can be modified into successful models. ”
 
 
