RAJKOT/AHMEDABAD: Around 45 members of  , whose four sons were brutally flogged by self-styled cow vigilantes, renounced Hinduism and embraced Buddhism at a ceremony in their native village Mota Samadhiyala, 15km from Una. The family members included the four flogging victims,  ,  

 Those who embraced Buddhism included Balu Sarvaiya and his wife Kunvarba; son Vashram and his wife Manisha; second son Ramesh and his wife Sonal; two nephews — Bechar and Ashok, Balu’s daughter Vanita besides several other relatives of the same family.
 
 Talking to TOI over phone, Sarvaiya said, “It has been over two years now that our sons were brutally flogged. However, till date, the state government has not extended any kind of help such as land or government jobs. Moreover, we haven’t still got justice and all the accused are on bail now.”
 
 “After this incident, there was an uprising among the Dalits. Though we became symbolic of atrocities on Dalits after the incident, we continued to face discrimination. Members of our own community told us that why were we still adhering to a religion even after tolerating so much. Even today, we shiver whenever we see the video of flogging,” Sarvaiya added. 
 
 Sarvaiya also sent out a message to the cow vigilantes and said that he and his family members had taken up the profession of skinning dead cattle, which was given to us by their (gau rakshak’s) forefathers due to deeply rooted caste system. “We have been forced to convert our religion because we think it would lend a momentum to the Dalit uprising that was witnessed after the flogging incident. Other Dalits too, who are silently suffering tortures, will also have to embrace Buddhism sooner or later,” he said.
 
 No prominent Dalit leaders such as Vadgam MLA Jignesh Mewani were present at the event christened,   that was organized by the Sarvaiya family. They had announced renouncing Hinduism in January stating that they still faced severe discrimination and the atrocity they were subjected to was one of the most brutal. The Sarvaiyas had invited Mewani and former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Mayawati for the conversion ceremony. 
 
 Sarvaiya did not speak very kindly about Mewani. “He shot to limelight and became the face of Dalit agitation in Gujarat after he raised our issue. But after that he has never cared to visit us or know our condition. I am not against him but we would have been happy.”
 
 Sarvaiya even challenged Mewani to embrace Buddhism if he is a true follower of Dr Baba Saheb Ambedkar.
 
 Heavy security arrangement was made in and around the village as well as Una town in wake of the threats that two of the brothers had received around four days ago by one of the 43 accused in the flogging incident. Gir-Somnath superintendent of police Hitesh Joisar said, five other deputy SPs from three districts were deployed to avert any tension or untoward incident.
 
 Vashram and his brothers were flogged and paraded half-naked by the gau rakshaks in July 2016. The incident had sparked massive uproar across the country and left the Dalit community fuming. It also triggered an angry Dalit movement in Gujarat.
 
 The other Dalits who embraced Buddhism were from various villages of Una taluka. Three Buddhist monks, including two who came from Mumbai and UP, performed the spiritual ceremony. 
 
 
