TADGAON (Gadchiroli): Eleven bloated and decomposing bodies of slain Maoists, including two women, were spotted floating by TOI in the   in  , on the Maharashtra-Chhattisgarh border, on Monday, a day after security forces claimed they had gunned down 16 Naxalites at the spot. These 11 bodies take the toll to 27. An inspection of the site suggested it had been more an ambush than an encounter.

 
 The operation in Rale-Kasnasur forest was carried out by C-60 commandos of Gadchiroli police and Battalion 9 of the   and seems to have taken aheavy toll of the CPI (Maoist).
 
 Senior officials claimed these 11 bodies were likely among the ones that could not be traced after Sunday’s encounter.
 
 However, police appeared to have made no effort to retrieve the bodies even on Monday. Some weapons could be seen with the bodies.
 
 Unlike usual encounter scenes, no empty bullet casings were found at the spot. A few live 12-bore cartridges were lying around; Naxalites often use guns of this gauge. 
 
 Police had recovered 16 bodies, including those of two divisional committee members and two commanders, on Sunday itself.
 
 
 
 With a number of rucksacks and material still strewn around the encounter site, which lies in a half-kilometre radius at the foot of   hillock, it is possible the Naxalite’s losses could mount further.
 
 So far the bodies of nine male and seven women cadres have been found. The police have managed to identify 11 and said the cumulative reward on the slain Naxalites was around Rs 76 lakh.
 
 Gadchiroli SP Abhinav Deshmukh said a team had been dispatched to conduct further searches. “The jawans engaged in the operations had claimed that some fleeing cadres had jumped into the water. Their bodies can only be retrieved after they float up,” he said. It’s not clear why security forces chose to discontinue the search for bodies after the four-hour operation ended at noon on Sunday. 
 
 Retrieving bodies has been a major challenge in the past. On many occasions the police had failed to claim success as they had been unable to find the bodies of Naxalites.
 
 An encounter casualty is recorded only after a body is recovered. The Maoists, too, have been very dogged in the past and have dragged away their dead and wounded to ensure the police are unable to claim success. TOI was at the encounter site from 2.30pm to 5.30pm on Monday but did not see any recovery operation.
 
 Though police claimed this was a genuine encounter, the spot on the bank of the   was found strewn with open soap cases, used soaps, toothpaste tubes and toothbrushes, and so on, all suggesting that several cadres had been either bathing or engaged in morning ablutions when they were surrounded by the police. The body of a semi-naked woman clad in just her innerwear suggested she must have been bathing and not in position to offer combat.
 
 There were several half-burnt pouches of “upma” and utensils strewn everywhere, suggesting the rebels had also been preparing their meals when the attack happened. TOI found numerous pouches of medicines, toiletries and a pen drive among the material. Gatta LOS commander Bicchu Gawde and Aheri dalam commander Shantabai, too, are among those killed.
 
 
