BHUBANESWAR: The   on Sunday finally announced that it will field Gaisilat block vice-chairman   as its candidate for the February 24 byelection of the Bijepur assembly constituency in Bargarh district. The seat had fallen vacant following the death of Congress MLA Subal Sahu in August, 2017. 

 Even though the Biju Janata Dal and the Bharatiya Janata Party had already announced the names of their candidates, the Congress, which held the Bijepur fort for three successive terms since 2004, announced its candidate's name just two days before the February 6 deadline of filing nominations. Pranay is likely to file his papers on Tuesday. 
 
 Soon after Subal Sahu's death, the Bijepur seat emerged as the centre of the state's political battles with Sahu's family joining the BJD fold and his wife Rita being announced as the BJD's candidate for the bypolls.
 
 Minutes after the All India Congress Committee (AICC) announced Pranay's name, the party's Jharsuguda MLA Naba Kishore Das expressed displeasure over the delay in finalizing the candidate. Das, who was a members of one of the two separate committees formed to recommend names of suitable candidates for the seat, said the name of a suitable candidate should have been declared at least two months ago. "I was part of a four-member committee formed in October last year. We had recommended names of two aspirants - Ripunath Seth and Pranay Sahu. The inordinate delay in announcing the candidate may affect our party," Das told TOI. A second committee, headed by former chief minister Hemananda Biswal, was formed last week to select candidates. 
 
 Das, who reportedly lobbied for Seth, a former Congress minister, said both Pranay and Seth are equally capable as leaders. "Our party could have got enough time for groundwork and would have mobilized workers on the field had the name of a suitable candidate been announced earlier," Das said.
 
 Speculation is rife that Pranay's candidature is likely to fuel an internal revolt in the Congress, which has been wracked with infighting for a long time. "We had seen discontentment among Bijepur leaders in the BJD and   as well after the announcement of their respective candidates for Bijepur. Local Congress leaders in Bijepur may react in the same manner. Ripunath Seth was also a popular aspirant. He and his supporters may express some displeasure," an analyser said. 
 
 Congress state president Prasad Harichandan, who has long since been facing his party workers' ire, said all was well within the party. "We are confident of retaining the Bijepur seat. It continues to be a Congress stronghold. All leaders will fight unitedly against the BJD and BJP. Our candidate Pranay will win," Harichandan said. 
 
 Pranay himself said he would seek the support of all Congress leaders and the people of Bijepur to win the poll, ruling out all rumours of internal disagreements. "There is no conflict between me and Ripunath Seth. Congress is united," Pranay said.
 
 
