HYDERABAD: An advocate, who was charged with stalking and intimidating a woman, has landed in hospital with stroke and abrasions all over the body. The victim, a resident of Himmath Pura at Khilwath, was reportedly tortured by   police. Police, however, denied the allegations and claimed he suffered a  .

 Mirza Mouzam Baig, 31, an advocate and   leader, was arrested on February 19 based on a complaint lodged by a woman.
 
 
  
  
 
 Medical reports of the first hospital, where he was admitted earlier, said there were “no obvious external injuries” on the body, while the second hospital report said “there are multiple abrasions all over the body and he suffered brain stroke”.
 
 Baig’s relatives alleged   had resulted in abrasions and injuries, while police claimed the advocate was not beaten up and he suffered a paralytic stroke due to ill health.
 
 Faisal Mirza, brother of Baig, told TOI, “Around 4.30pm on February 18, a police constable came home and took my brother to the Langar Houz police station. Around 5pm on February 19, police took him to Premier Hosptial at Mehidipatnam and from there he was shifted to Sai Krishna Super Speciality Hospital at Kachiguda. There are injuries on his body as he was beaten up by police. He suffered (brain) stroke due to police torture.”
 
 On the other hand, police denied the allegations. “We received a complaint on February 18 afternoon from a 33-yearold woman, an event organiser. She said she used to attend parties with her Facebook friend Mouzam Baig. However, he started sending vulgar messages and insisted she have a physical relationship with him. He also tarnished her reputation by sending wrong information to her husband and issued death threats to her,” Langar Houz inspector M Anjaiah said.
 
 “During investigation by sub-inspector (SI) D Srinu, he did not turn up at police station and refused to cooperate with the investigation officer claiming he was an advocate. He was brought to police station at 4.30pm on February 19 and formally arrested,” Anjaiah added.
 
 The case was bailable. While taking sureties to release him on bail, he complained of illness in the presence of others. He was immediately sent to Premier Hospital and from there his relatives shifted him to   for better treatment. “He is levelling false allegations that police had beaten him up. It is a baseless charge. Doctors of Premier Hospital said the accused suffered a paralytic attack,” the inspector added.
 
 The medical report of Sai Krishna Super Speciality Hospital stated that he was brought to casualty with abrasions and brain stroke.
 
