Different strategies, tactics and formations will be on show in  . The 4-2-3-1 looks to be the system that quite a few teams will adopt. Some may go with three at the back while there are few that will employ the tried-and-tested 4-4-2. Flexibility will be a factor too - a 4-5-1 can be tweaked into 4-1-4-1 or a 3-5-2 or a 3-4-2-1. Here are five formations likely to be used in the tournament. Visuals are formations from the 2014 World Cup.

 
 
 
 
 
 The   thrives on slick passing with clever positioning sense. Presence of two wide attackers deters the rival full-backs from going on overlaps. The success of this formation, however, depends on how the front three complement one another.
 
  
  
 
  France,  ,  ,  
 
 
 
 
 
 A popular formation of late. Apart from attacking thrust and utilization of the width of the pitch, this allows teams to maintain balance during transitions. There are more attacking options and the man up front also falls back to create more confusion for rival backline. This formation is also adept at nullifying counter-attacks.
 
  
  
 
  Germany, Egypt, Portugal, Argentina
 
 
 
 It’s a more possession-based approach, involving quick exchanges and increasing men in attack to find an outlet to breach the rival defence. What is of paramount importance is synchronization and spatial awareness both in attack and while falling back so that shape is maintained and opponents not given space.
 
  
  
 
  Spain, Morocco, Brazil (4-1-4-1), Switzerland
 
 
 
 
 Full-backs take up more advanced positions. More players in midfield makes it difficult for the opponents to get into the final third easily and wing-backs stop rival wingers before they reach dangerous positions. This system makes it easy to forge speedy counter-attacks with the wings-backs much more involved. However, the defensive organization needs to be perfect, else it can be counter-productive.
 
  
  
 
  Russia, Belgium (3-4-2-1), England (3-4-2-1).
 
 
 
 The most widely used system by coaches worldwide. It has lost preference of late probably because of its predictability. However, there are teams that still employ it because of its simplicity. Players who don’t play together a lot often find it easier to forge an understanding through this method. Attacking moves tend to be quick and direct with attempt to also deliver crosses into the box for forward men to take advantage.
 
  
  
 
  Uruguay, Iceland, Sweden.
 
