CHENNAI: Throwing the bait to the Congress, the ruling   on Monday reiterated its demand for support from the national party to move a no-confidence motion against the Narendra Modi government for its failure to comply with the Supreme Court order and constitute a  . This comes against the backdrop of Supreme Court clarifying that its   verdict mentioned ‘scheme’ and not just a board.

 “Our continued protests in Parliament has caught the attention of the Supreme Court and have raised our hopes. But to move a no-confidence motion, we certainly need the support of Congress. Let   working president   persuade his ally Congress leaders   and   to extend their support. We have only 37 MPs,” said LS deputy speaker and senior AIADMK leader M Thambidurai in New Delhi. Congress is the third party to have moved no-confidence motion against the Centre after TDP and YSRCP for special category status to AP, followed by CPM and RSP.
 
 Only recently, the AIADMK expelled its spokesman K C Palanisamy for his out-of-turn remarks on moving no-confidence motion against the Modi government, presumably at the behest of the BJP. Congress sources in Delhi said the AIADMK move was similar to “run with the hare and hunt with the hounds” situation. The chief minister’s “toned down” reaction to the Centre’s failures is a classic example, they say. Congress leaders allege that the continuous disruption of Parliament proceedings by AIADMK was instigated by the BJP to avoid embarrassment of a discussion on the no-trust move. Neither was an audience with the PM forthcoming nor was the Centre heeding to the Cauvery tribunal’s final order. 
 
 Enjoying the company of long-time ally, DMK, senior Congress leaders said the motion was already on the floor on various counts of Centre’s failures and AIADMK could support it. Pointing to the disruptions by AIADMK members, both Houses had been adjourned day after day. With state election due in Karnataka, the Congress too finds itself in a tricky situation on Cauvery. “Let Thambidurai move the motion with available strength and then seek the support of others. There are so many regional parties, let him try,” TNCC chief S Thirunavukkarasar told TOI. 
 
 
