MADURAI: The   bench of the Madras high   on Monday ordered status quo on the ongoing four-phase elections to cooperative societies in the state and sought a report from the Tamil Nadu State Co-operative Societies Election Commission on the nominations received and rejected as well as the reasons for rejection. 

 With this, the court has stopped all further processes for holding elections to the remaining 9,258 of the 18,435 primary cooperative societies in the third and fourth phases. The election commission had on March 5 announced four-phase elections to 18,435 primary cooperative societies that come under the state's 15 departments. Accordingly, elections were held to 4,698 societies in phase 1 and 4,479 societies in phase 2. It was scheduled to conduct elections to 4,531 societies in phase 3 on April 16 and 4,727 societies in the last phase on April 23. Challenging the elections, several petitions were filed before the high court bench including one by Oddanchatram MLA and whip of the opposition DMK, R Sakkarapani. The MLA sought the court's intervention to declare the elections conducted as unconstitutional and unenforceable and a direction to the state's co-operation department to hold it in a free and fair manner.
 
 When the cases came up for hearing before the division bench of justices C T Selvam and A M  , the counsels for the petitioners said that the cooperative societies election commission had failed to follow due procedure in holding the elections. The commission had not conducted any election but made only selection, the petitioners said.
 
 They said that in most cases the commission accepted nominations of candidates belonging to the ruling AIADMK and declared them as winners. It had not only rejected the nominations of candidates from rival parties, but also not revealed to candidates the reasons for rejection. The counsels said that ministers were appointed as election officers thereby affecting free and fair elections. However, counsel for the election commission argued that no procedure had been violated.
 
 
