INDORE: Expedite pending work and resolve issues of industries with mutual coordination among different departments,   Sumitra Mahajan told officials of various departments on Monday.

 Mahajan was chairing a   of the members of   (AIMP). The   members presented a memorandum to the Lok Sabha Speaker citing issues such as encroachment on industrial land, delay in departmental permissions, safety for industries and improvement in basic infrastructure among many. 
 
 The meeting was attended by 12 senior officials from departments such as AKVN, DIC, Electricity, Pollution Board, public works along with collector Nishant Warwade and deputy inspector general of police Harinarayanchari Mishra.
 
 Addressing the industrialists and officials, Mahajan directed officials to frame an estimate of work and send the proposal to the government.
 
 Industrialists complained about frequent electricity failures and shut downs to which the Lok Sabha Speaker directed the electricity department to resolve the issue of power outages.
 
 Mahajan assured industrialists that their issues will be resolved by the department within a set time frame and she herself will monitor the progress.
 
 AIMP president   said, “It was a very fruitful meeting where officials from various departments and industrialists discussed their issues under one roof. We expect a quick resolution of our issues now.”
 
 Most of the problems raised by the industrialists were related to permissions and approvals from AKVN and  .
 
 Answering a query on safety for trucks carrying industrial goods, DIG Mishra said that the department is working on reducing thefts, and suggested industrialists to park trucks in areas where CCTVs are installed to help tracking truck movements and thefts.
 
 On demand of police chowki in Pologround area, DIG said the proposal has been sent to the head office.
 
 Collector Warwade, answering a query said, the administration is working hard to remove encroachments from local and industrial areas.
 
 
