MUMBAI: Two first-year   were recently arrested for repeatedly sexually assaulting three minors-—girls aged nine and six years old and a boy aged three years old. The girls were the maternal cousin of the threeyear-old boy. Two more accused are absconding.

 
 A special   (POCSO) Act court recently rejected the bail pleas of the two accused, aged 19 and 20 years old. An   in the case was registered on November 10, 2007. The   told the police that she had differences with her husband and in June 2017, she moved in with her parents. She said that her sister and three-year-old nephew also lived in the house.
 
 
 The mother said that about two weeks before the complaint was lodged, the nine-year-old girl had complained of pain in abdomen and private parts. She further stated that on November 6, her sister realised that every time the younger girl saw the accused, she would start crying. When the woman enquired, the child told her that the accused used to take her to an open place and sexually assault her. The child said that the accused had threatened to kill her if she spoke about the incident to anyone. The girl also revealed about the involvement of three other boys in the sexual assault. The older girl also revealed a similar ordeal. The mother later found out that her three-year-old nephew too was molested. She and her sister then enquired with the parents of the accused, however, they paid no attention and instead threatened them. The mother then lodged a complaint with the police.
 
 The   that it was not possible for such repeated incidents to take place in a open space, and that too during the day, especially when the families live in the vicinity. The defence said the accused were young and their future will be hampered if kept with hardened criminals. The advocate also submitted that there was a quarrel between the two families and hence, a false complaint was lodged.
 
 The prosecution opposed the bail pleas and submitted that the accused are matured enough to understand the consequences of their actions. It further stated that the survivors belong to a financial weaker family and there was every possibility of threatening them and tampering with the evidence.
 
 
 The court reasoned that the photographs of the place of the alleged incident showed there were bushes and hence, the prosecution case cannot be totally denied. It also found force in the apprehensions of the prosecution about the accused. Further, the court said investigations were still in progress and a chargesheet was yet to be filed; hence, it would not be just to release them on bail.
 
