CHANDIGARH: The   has questioned   ( ) former secretary O P Popli and present secretary Kamal Kumar Garg in the recruitment of 1,192 clerks, allegedly made illegally, during the SAD-BJP regime in 2013-14 by prejudicing backward class category. 

 As per sources, CBI is also going to question the then chairman and members of the board. These include ex-chairman Santa Singh Umedpur. He resigned from the post after the SAD declared him its candidate from Samrala constituency in the 2017 assembly elections. He lost the seat to Congress's Amrik Singh Dhillon.
 
 Other board members who could be questioned include Dyal Singh Kolianwali, Gurmeet Singh Daduwal, Darshan Lal Jethumajra, Jiwan Dhawan and Seelam Singh Sohi. 
 
 Kolianwali is an SGPC member and SAD's Muktsar district chief. Daduwal was appointed chairman of the board in December 2016, after Kolianwali resigned.
 
 Deciding a bunch of connected petitions in December last year, the Punjab and Haryana high court observed that the select list was prepared in "utter disregard" of law. 
 
 It had directed the board to pay Rs 25,000 to each of the 80 petitioners for forcing them into unwarranted litigation.
 
 The board had advertised 1,192 posts of clerks in 2013 in different departments of the Punjab government. The board had declared the result in June 2014, after which the selection was challenged in the Punjab and Haryana high court. The petitioners had claimed had submitted that reserved candidates scoring more marks than the last selected candidate in the general category were ignored in the recruitment. 
 
 In case the court orders recasting of the selection list, it would entail ouster of a large number of selected and appointed general candidates.
 
 On March 19, the high court had handed over the probe to the CBI, with directions to complete it in 10 weeks. "Everything has happened, prima facie, in connivance with and assistance of the then state functionaries," the court had observed.
 
 It had directed the CBI to determine reasons behind favouring candidates lower down the merit list. 
 
 The CBI was also directed to examine whether there was any evidence of illegal gratification being received or exchanged by the state government or board officials for extending undue favours to candidates lower in merit.
 
 
