

 This is the first time that a summit of this scale is being held here and our expectations are very high. The response from investors has been very encouraging. We are hopeful that our state will take a big leap in terms of attracting investment and helping industrial growth. In fact, I should say that this is not only the biggest summit I have seen, but also the biggest event being organised in the state in my political career since 1985. We want to see our state develop. We want more industry and hope the summit will be able to attract global investment.
 
  
 
 
 As we all know the biggest advantage of the northeast is its geostrategic location. Our region is veritably a gateway to   because of our locational proximity, geographical and cultural affinities. Our vision is to use this locational advantage through business connectivity under our Act East Policy. All investors are interested to exploit this advantage. 
 
  
 
 
  We are going to use this event as a template to showcase Assam in a bid to attract global investments. Assam has all the advantages and the best environment to attract big investment. Our government has taken some of the most business-friendly policies. Over 4,000 investors and participants from at least 20 countries will be participating.
 
  
 
 
 There will be sectoral sessions on river transport and port township, plastic and petrochemicals, civil aviation, handloom, textiles and handicrafts. There will be special country seminars on Bangladesh, Bhutan, Laos and Myanmar. Big names in the industry like that of   and   along with others will be present. A large number of representatives, including ministers and diplomats from Southeast Asian countries, will attend. I would say the summit would be a milestone so far as industrialization of Assam is concerned.
 
  
 
 
 The government has already approved a 160 sq km industrial corridor on the two sides of the national highway from Guwahati to Tihu in Nalbari district. This corridor will facilitate prospective investors to procure land and convert agriculture land for industrial activity without any hassle. The state has already embarked on the  , including air connectivity.
 
  
 
 
  On Saturday several MoUs between the state government and investors will be signed. 
 
 
