MYSURU: Following Kannada film actor Darshan’s visit to   segment, where he campaigned for chief minister  , a scuffle broke out between workers of the JD(S) and Congress in Naganahalli, which is part of the constituency. The fight left six injured – four from the Congress and two from the JD(S). All those who sustained injuries have been admitted to Krishna Rajendra Hospital in the city.

 The hospital authorities said that the injuries were minor in nature. Siddaramaiaj paid a visit to the injured Congress workers at KR Hospital immediately after he arrived in Mysuru on Sunday.
 
 “Trouble started during Darshan’s  , when workers from both the JD(S) and Congress started sparring at one another. A few JD(S) workers felt that the actor should not promote the CM’s cause since he had neglected to heed to their demands of water for irrigational purposes,” police said. Meanwhile, both the Congress and JD(S) workers have filed cases of assault against each other.
 
 Some of the JD(S) workers had, during Darshan’s roadshow, criticised the actor while heaping praise on former minister Ambareesh. When a few JD(S) activists had displayed their party flag during the rally, police was forced to resort to caning them. However, this did not prevent another squabble from breaking out later on Saturday night.
 
 On the other hand, JD(S) candidate from Chamundeshwari GT Devegowda had a tough time answering questions from women in Naganahalli. The women asked why the JD(S) was dividing the people, and fomenting trouble. His attempts to respond were silenced by persistent queries, before Devegowda retorted in anger. However, police intervened and eased the tension, Devegowda left the village later.
 
 ‘I will focus on Chamundeshwari from now’
 
 Announcing that he had completed his state-wide tour, chief minister Siddaramaiah on Sunday said that he would now focus his energies on Chamundeshwari segment to defeat the JD(S).
 
 However, Siddaramaiah clarified that he would not be campaigning in Varuna constituency. “The Congress will win the seat easily, and there is no need for me to campaign there,” he said.
 
 Taking on Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Siddaramaiah said, “The PM has failed to fulfill the promises he made four years ago. Also, Modi has to answer the people about his very expensive suit, and clarify whether it was purchased with taxpayers’ money.”
 
 Siddaramaiah further added that the BJP leaders were already beginning to fear defeat, and that the party’s state president BS Yeddyurappa was dreaming of becoming the CM.
 
 The CM, who had previously campaigned in the rural parts of Chamundeshwari on Sunday held a roadshow in the urban parts of the constituency. Although he was scheduled to arrive in Shdradevi Nagar, which is part of the constituency at 1pm on Sunday, he came only around 8pm. 
 
 Arriving to a warm welcome, the CM told the massive crowd, “Congress will get a majority again, and I will return as the CM. There will be more welfare programmes for the people.” The Cm also campaigned at Bogadi, Vasanathanagar, and other areas.
 
 On Monday, he will campaign in Cmaharajanagar district before returning to Chamundeshwari later in the day.
 
 
