HYDERABAD: After a seven-year probe by the Lokayukta, the Telangana government on Friday appointed a liaison officer to expedite investigations against several officials of panchayati raj department for aiding illegal constructions and committing irregularities in regularisation of building penalisation scheme (BPS) in Manikonda and Narsingi. 

 In October 2017, the state government entrusted the case of M  , then executive officer (panchayati raj and rural development) of   mandal and six others to the tribunal for disciplinary proceedings.
 
 The vigilance department in November 2015 indicted 19 officials of the panchayati raj department on allegations of supervisory lapses, failure to avert illegal constructions and inability to take up demolition work. A fire tragedy in Baba Nivas apartment of  , abutting Manikonda caused deaths of 7 people in November 2012.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 "The state government appointed me as liaison officer to attend tribunal proceedings and submit records," said Rangareddy district panchayat officer  .
 
 RTI activist P   said, it all started in 2010 when a complaint was filed with Lokayukta. "In 2012, a fire was triggered at a film set next to an illegal building. In 2013, Lokayukta issued orders based on which the vigilance department took up the probe and submitted a report in 2015. 
 
 The case was given to the tribunal for disciplinary proceedings. There is inordinate delay in taking action against erring officials. The case is already delayed by seven years," Suresh told TOI. 
 
 In its report, vigilance department said: "With reference to the building penalisation scheme, 379 applications were received in Manikonda, of which 70 cases were released and 37 rejected. Remaining are pending for want of differential cost.  , in a statement before the Lokayukta, said no BPS application was pending. This is incorrect. 
 
 It was revealed that owners and builders submitted applications before cut-off date without completing buildings and without enclosing a photo of the building and building completion certificate."
 
 Sources said, PR official M Vittal Reddy told vigilance officials he had issued notices through the panchayati secretary in Manikonda and Narsingi to those who constructed more than G+2 buildings, but no documentary evidence was submitted. Vigilance sleuths also found supervisory lapses on his part in preventing unauthorised constructions in Manikonda jagir and also failed to report to higher authorities about illegal structures.
 
 The vigilance department directed HMDA commissioner to take action against officers and fix responsibility for missing files.
 
 
