JAIPUR: Hit by prolonged slump in real estate market, the   ( ) in an unprecedented move has decided to sell its flats on instalments and discount.

 
 After 15 years, the agency is once again forced to adopt such practice to dispose of its flats.
 
 According to an official, a committee comprising of RHB chief engineer has recommended to sell these flats on instalments and on discounts to clear the existing stock. However, this would not applicable on new schemes.
 
 “The committee is examining how many instalments would be fixed for buyers and amount of discount to be provided. Earlier, in 2003-2004, same practice was adopted, where 156-month instalments were fixed for economic weaker section (EWS) and lower income group ( ) category. Similarly, for middle income group (MIG) and Higher income group (HIG), the RHB has fixed 144-month instalments.”
 
 According to official sources, there are more than 22,000 flats in all district which were built by the RHB. “The RHB would give first come first preference to its buyers. If more than one buyer comes to purchase a flat, a draw will be taken out to decide to whom flat should be sold on instalment,” he added.
 
 The RHB houses failed to attract buyers after 2014 as RHB was selling houses higher than market price even when state was in a grip of market slowdown. The board also made an attempt to sell these flats ‘over the counter’. “This means that one was offered to buy a RHB house and also take its possession in just one day. In the earlier system, the houses were allotted via draw of lots, and buyers had to wait for the results for months. But, buyers were not impressed with this offer too,” added an official.
 
 Established in 1970, the RHB aimed at providing houses on no profit-no loss basis. However, in the recent past, several cases of corruption discouraged buyers where officials allegedly increased the prices in connivance with the contractors.
 
 Reports suggested a huge difference in prices from what was quoted at the time of booking and at the time of construction. As per records, in the past two years, the construction cost has been raised by more than 40%.
 
 For instance, in 2016 in  , the RHB had announced flats at Rs 16 lakh each for middle income group (MIG-B) but the cost of constructed ones went up to Rs 42 lakh, which surprised the purchasers. Many allottees also approached the court in this regard.
 
 Similarly, there was a price difference of Rs 16 lakh for Bhagu apartment ( ). At the time of booking, the RHB had quoted Rs 38 lakh and when it was constructed, the allottees were asked to pay Rs 54 lakh.
 
