NEW DELHI: A case where a man was awarded life imprisonment for allegedly killing his   for   at night saw a twist after Delhi high court acquitted him. The court held that the case was based exclusively on the man’s extra-judicial confession, but it was a “weak piece of evidence”.

 “Being a weak piece of circumstantial evidence...it cannot be the sole basis for returning a finding of guilt against the appellant for the offence under Section 302 of IPC,” observed Justice S Muralidhar and Justice I S Mehta.
 
 The court was hearing an appeal filed by 29-year-old Mohsin, a resident of Uttar Pradesh, who was facing a lifetime behind bars for allegedly killing a three-year-old child. Mohsin was given life term imprisonment by a trial court in September 2017 for hitting his three-year-old stepson’s head on a stone after getting enraged with the child’s continuous weeping.
 
 The witness, to whom Mohsin reportedly confessed the crime, said: “He had committed a grave mistake by committing the murder of his son.” The crucial question before the court was if the case of circumstantial evidence, exclusively based on the extra-judicial confession purportedly made by Mohsin to his employer, could lead to a murder conviction and consequently a lifer.
 
 The court noted that the child’s mother, an important witness in the case, had stated that even when the minor wept at night, the couple would wake up and pacify him. “There is no evidence forthcoming except again PW-5 (employer) who states that the appellant got irritated with the victim’s cries. This is, however, completely negated by the evidence of PW-2 (mother).” observed HC.
 
 According to police, the convict had killed Sameer on the intervening night of May 26-27, 2012. Advocate Sumeet Verma, who contested the man’s conviction and sentence, argued that no motive has been established by the prosecution behind the murder of the deceased and even extra-judicial confession purportedly made by his client to his employer was weak.
 
 For the HC, the trial court appeared to have overlooked the fact that the room in which they were all sleeping was not bolted from inside on the night of the incident. 
 
 The mother, HC said, herself volunteered to say that Mohsin’s employer passed lewd remarks about her, which led to a verbal altercation between the two men. 
 
 
