KOLKATA: An invitation sent out to several leading city intellectuals to meet governor Keshari Nath Tripathi for tea at   on April 26 has led to considerable speculation. The city’s political circles feel the governor, who will meet at least 16 writers and social activists at 4pm on Thursday, is keen to gauge the mood of the intelligentsia even as pre-panchayat poll violence continues. Some believe they could be asked about their opinion on political issues.

 Unlike the usual practice, the invitation card doesn’t mention the occasion or the scheduled programme.
 
 Pointing out this was the fi rst time the governor will meet intellectuals, an official at Raj Bhavan said, “He will discuss certain issues but we have no idea what they could be.”
 
 Author   is a little surprised with the invitation card. “It mentions the time of the meeting and nothing else. I receive at least four-five invitations to attend programs at Raj Bhavan every year. Never before have I come across an invitation that doesn’t mention the scheduled programme,” he said. Refusing to speculate, Mukhopadhyay said he would prefer to keep away if the interaction veered towards politics. “I have never got involved in politics because that is not my cup of tea. But it is true the violence in the lead-up to the panchayat elections is disturbing. It is sending out a negative message about state politics and politicians,” he said.
 
 Poet  , another invitee, will not visit Raj Bhavan on Thursday. “I have already conveyed my inability to attend,”   said, but declined to elaborate on the reason for staying away. Another writer does not plan to attend the meet, suspecting a political motive behind the invitation. “Most of those invited have been vocal against the state government. I don’t belong to that group and am perceived to be close to the ruling party. I would rather avoid being in the company of those with whom I don’t see eye-toeye,” he said.
 
 Author   had called the governor’s office to enquire about the reason for the meeting. “I was told it was going to be an informal interaction. As I am not keeping well, I am not very sure about being able to attend. But if health permits, I will definitely go. In case, the present political situation is discussed, I will say what I feel. The country and the state are going through a terribly bad phase. Everyone can see what’s happening and there’s no reason why I should keep quiet. In fact, I would expect my fellow invitees to do the same,” she said.
 
 It’s an honour to be invited by the governor, said educationist and writer  . “I will attend but have no idea why we have been called. I would not like to speculate on the reason,” Sarkar said. Jadavpur University vice-chancellor Suranjan Das, who is away in Bengaluru, refused to disclose if he would go for the meet.
 
