NEW DELHI:  , accused of pulling off possibly India's biggest bank fraud, joins a list of business tycoons cum economic offenders who fled India after committing fraud.

 
 
 
 
 Fugitive tycoon Mallya is wanted in India on several charges of fraud and money laundering. He defaulted on bank loans over Rs 9,000 crore and left India more than a year ago using a diplomatic passport. He currently resides in London.
 
 He has been declared a "proclaimed offender" on a request by the Prevention of Money Laundering Act court on request of Enforcement Directorate.
 
 On April 18, 2017, Mallya was arrested by the UK Metropolitan Police extradition unit "on behalf of the Indian authorities in relation to accusations of fraud", and he was then released on bail pending further consideration of the case.
  
 
 
 
 
 
 52-year-old Modi faces charges of swindling money, including siphoning off Rs 125 crore from the BCCI, the Indian cricket board.
 
 He moves to London in 2010. He has been issued series of summons by investigating agencies, to which he did not respond. This prompted ED to request Interpol to issue a global warrant against him.
 Indian courts have issued several non-bailable warrants and sanctions against him for initiating extradition proceedings.
  
 
 
 
 Corporate consultant Talwar is accused of concealing income of more than Rs 1,000-crore as well as facilitating aviation contracts during the UPA regime.
 
 He is facing five prosecution complaints filed by the Income Tax (IT) Department.
 
 The CBI has registered a case against an NGO linked to him for allegedly misusing over Rs 90 crore in funds taken through the foreign funding route as part of the corporate social responsibility.
 
 Talwar fled India and is currently in the UAE, where he has been barred from leaving the country.
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 Controversial arms dealer Bhandari was proclaimed offender in an Official Secrets Act case related to the recovery of confidential documents of the ministry of defence from his residence during an IT raid in 2016.
 
 The IT department also booked Bhandari under the stringent anti-black money act besides carrying out an investigation against him in a tax evasion case.
 
 He fled the country in December allegedly through Nepal amid myriad investigations.
 
 
 
