DHARAMSHALA: The announcement in Parliament on Tuesday of 39 Indians being massacred in Iraq has left the family of   Kumar, a resident of Dhameta village in Kangra district, shattered. 

 Sandeep, 28, leaves behind a wife, two minor children and elderly parents. He was the only son of his parents. “Sandeep was working in a TNH Company in Mosul, Iraq, as a mechanic. He left home on September 16, 2013 and was abducted in June 2014 he by a terror group,” recalled his father Dilawar Singh.
 
 Besides Sandeep, there are two others youths from Kangra district who were killed in Mosul. Aman, 27, was from Pasu village near  , had called his father and informed him about their abducted by terrorists. 
 
 “I got the call in June 2014, but he was unable to tell the exact location at that time” said Ramesh Chand, an ex-serviceman. Aman was the younger of two brothers in the family and worked as a JCB operator in Mosul.
 
 Another family to lose a 26-year-old son in Mosul is from Kadreti village of Dehra subdivision in Kangra district. “Inderjeet had called us in June 2014, saying they being taken to the airport. It had given us a ray of hope,” said his father Pardesi Ram. Youngest of the three siblings,   was a machine operator “but they made him work as a labourer”. “My only request to the government is that it should keep a check on immigration companies, so that they do not deceive more youths of this hill state,” he added.
 
 Hem Raj, a resident of Bayla village of Sundernagar subdivision in   district, had gone to Iraq on July 31, 2013 to work as cook. He made his last call to his wife on June 14, 2014, to inform her about leg injury in a bomb blast and that he was held hostage by ISIS. 
 
 He has left behind wife   Devi and two children. As there was no information about his whereabouts, Nirmala had requested the district administration last year to locate him. 
 
 Sources said that Hem Raj belonged to a poor family and had gone to Iraq to provide a better life to his family. He had borrowed money from relatives and neighbours to travel there.
 
 Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur said the bodies of deceased would be brought by air to Amritsar and the state government would make all arrangements to transport the bodies to their respective villages from Amritsar.
 
 
