HUBBALLI-DHARWAD: With Karnataka CM Siddaramaiah promising minority status for the   the issue has become a major talking point of the election battleground. However away from the heat of polls, in a quiet corner of Dharwad town in north Karnataka, the widow and son of Karnataka’s foremost Lingayat scholar   are reminding the Karnataka’s netas of the irony of invoking Basavanna, the 12th century philosopher of the Lingayat community, only at election time.

 
 Kalburgi, who is remembered for his life long study of Basavanna and writings about Lingayat independence from mainstream Hinduism, was shot dead in his house in August 2015. Winner of the Sahitya Akademi Award in 2006 and former VC of Kannada University, Hampi Kalburgi’s killing spurred other Sahitya Akademi awardees to return their awards.
 
 Today when every political party is paying homage to Basava, who believed in Lingayat independence from Hinduism, Kalburgi’s family points out that Kalburgi was killed for the very beliefs that every party is now endorsing.
 
 “My father’s was a very strong and firm voice for Basavanna’s philosophy,” says son Shrivijay Kalburgi, a Bangalore-based manager employed in the corporate sector, “he was killed because of his writings and the way he analysed manuscripts and argued for the cause of Lingayat independence from Hinduism.” Shrivijay says politicians and governments have been forced to recognize the Lingayat demand for separateness from Hinduism because the Lingayat people have realised where they belong due to the efforts of various democratic movements within the community. “We would not like to claim any credit as Dr Kalburgi’s family for the recognition of this long standing demand of the community, “ says Shrivijay, “but yes, although my father was killed for his beliefs yet now those beliefs have been vindicated and proved right.”
 
 In a quiet leaf-shaded colony in Dharwad, Umadevi Kalburgi still lives in the very same house where her husband professor Kalburgi was killed, surrounded by his books and pictures, even his spectacles and mobile phone. She recalls the day he was killed. Two shooters came to the front door of their home while he was speaking on his cellphone and shot him at point blank range on his verandah. “My husband lived in the world of ideas, he had no enemies. Until today I don’t know why anyone would kill the professor.”
 
 Shrivijay says the family clings to the hope that the police will be able to crack the case and find Kalburgi’s killers. “We are no longer worried about our own safety, what more can anybody do to our family? The government keeps assuring us that investigations are going on so we are hopeful.” Today are politicians of all hues simply using Basavanna’s beliefs for votes? “All his life professor wrote about Basavanna, his life was committed to making people understand his beliefs and ideas,” says Umadevi. “I don’t think politicians have actually studied Basavanna, now its about votes, not scholarship of understanding Basavanna’s values.” Professor G.N. Devy who moved to Dharwad after Kalburgi was killed remembers his friend as a true scholar who had a lifelong engagement with Vachana literature which speaks of the Lingayat rebellion against Sanatan dharma. “He was a scholar to his bones, steeped in Vachana literature, there had been a threat against them thirty years ago for arguing that Lingayats did not believe in an external God.” Devy, who has himself been offered security by the state government but has refused, organized a protest march in Dharwad in 2016 and was astounded at the response. “Thousands of students from 40 colleges participated in the silent procession,” Devy recalls, “it showed how deeply Kalburgi’s ideas had resonated.” Devy draws a parallel between the Lingayats of Karnataka and the Patels of Gujarat, to show how dominant agrarian castes once loyal to the BJP in both states, now feel they are losing out on opportunities and may be turning against the party. “Where once Lingayats had been drawn towards brahmanisation, now they are being pulled towards tribalisation.”
 
 Umadevi points out that her husband’s ideas were entirely scholarly and literary and he had nothing to do with politics. “Professor Kalburgi spoke of equality and justice, it was never about politics but about people.” She says Kalburgi kept showing through his studies of texts and manuscripts how Basavanna challenged Hindu orthodoxies. “At that time people criticized him for dividing and challenging Hinduism, now everybody is following what the professor said.” “There is no doubt that hindutva forces felt threatened by Kalburgi’s writings,” says Devy.
 
 If the Lingayats do get minority status, it will be a fitting memorial to the fearless scholar who devoted his life to this cause and died for it. Umadevi recalls how in the immediate aftermath of Kalburgi’s killing Siddaramaiah, Yedyurappa had came to their house. “Now no one comes,” says Umadevi, “I suppose it does not matter to them anymore.”
 
