KOTA: A 25-year-old man consumed poisonous substance and committed suicide late on Friday night in Mahavirnagar extension area under Mahavirnagar police station of  . In the suicide note recovered from his possession, the deceased alleged harassment by an ASI posted at Anta police station of Baran district. Police handed over the body to family members after post-mortem on Saturday. They have initiated investigation after lodging a case.

 “The youth identified as   alias Vikki, a resident of Koteri area in Anta town of Baran district, late last evening consumed poison in a park near his relative’s home where he had been staying for some time,” said Madan Lal Khateek, circle incharge (CI), Mahavirnagar police station.
 
 The youth was rushed to a private hospital where he succumbed during treatment late last night, he added.
 
 “In the suicide note handed over to the police by the relative, the deceased man alleged an ASI named Bhanwar Singh posted at Anta police station was harassing him by fabricating a false case against him under various sections of IPC,” the CI said.
 
 Some persons of his village Mukesh, Dinesh, Dwarkilal and others through false statements to the police fabricated a false case against him under sections 308, 341 and 324 of IPC, the deceased stated in the suicide note and alleged that ASI Bhanwar Singh cunningly added his name as the key accused in the matter. The man clarified that he did not beat Dinesh’s wife, as mentioned in the FIR. He also demanded strict action against those who forced him to commit suicide. The deceased sought apology from his mother for not being able to be her support and to his sister Kavita for not being able to attend her marriage.
 
 The deceased had cleared REET exam and was about to get job as a government teacher.
 
 The body was handed over to the family members after post-mortem on Saturday morning.
 
 “A case under Section 174 of CrPC was lodged in this connection,” CI Madan Lal Khateek said.
 
 “Investigation into the reliability of the suicide note is underway,” he added.
 
 When contacted, Bhanwar Singh, ASI at Anta police station, refuted allegations of harassment against him saying he carried out routine investigation and after the evidences went against the accused, he initiated relevant action against them.
 
 
