NOIDA: A 20-year-old woman who missed an exam for a job with the   as she and her mother were beaten up by the family members of a local youth for objecting to his alleged repeated  , has now approached   ( ) complaining about police inaction in the case.

 TOI had reported the incident — “Beaten up by kin of ‘stalker’, woman misses RBI exam” — on January 12.
 
 Alleging that police have come came under the “influence of the accused”, the woman has complained to the NCW that no arrests have been made in the case. She has also sought quashing of a “false case” against her and her family members, including her mother who sustained a fractured arm in the alleged attack by the parents of the accused, Rohit. In the letter to the NCW, dated January 29, the woman has said that Rohit had first misbehaved with her on December 14 when she had given a complaint to the police against him for stalking her for over two years, but the latter did not take proper action.
 
 “This boosted the accused who attacked my mother and me on the evening of December 31 when my father was not present at home. After this incident, my father lodged a complaint but no action was taken by police. To make our case ineffective, the accused party lodged a false complaint against us to pressurise us,” reads the letter. Both the woman and the accused are residents of Noida’s   village.
 
 Police had initially lodged two cross-FIRs for breach of peace in the case, one against the woman and her family members and the other against Rohit and his family. But later cops added sections 452 (trespassing), 323 (causing hurt), 352 (assault) and 506 (criminal intimidation) against Rohit, his parents and four of his family members. “We lodged an FIR on the basis of the facts stated in the first complaint. The second party has also given an FIR. We are investigating the case and if the NCW has been informed about the matter, they can also take note of the facts,” said Rajeev Kumar, circle officer II.
 
 The woman’s father has claimed that while Rohit had been stalking his daughter, his parents were unhappy about him buying a plot opposite to their house and building his own house there.
 
 
