Women in South India perennially find themselves in a precarious situation. They are educated, ambitious and liberated and yet, they find themselves in families, societies and cities that rooted to traditional ways. Carving one’s own niche in such a situation is more a matter of pushing the envelope a little at a time, and that’s exactly what these go-getters are doing. Be it the Sub-Inspector who fought with her family and society to make a place for herself in a field that still remains dominated by men, or the biker who decided to throw caution to the wind and pick up her passion disregarding her age, the trainer who’s tired of being called ‘manly’ or the pilot and photographer who have paved a way for themselves in their respective fields, all these women have strived hard and made a mark in their chosen fields. On International Women’s Day, we celebrate these trailblazers and trendsetters who make their ilk proud. 

 People take one look at my beautiful face and ask me why I'm training like a man: R Ramya, 23, Fitness Trainer
 I train both men and women and I love my job. However, quite often, people take one look at my beautiful face and ask me why I’m training people like a man. They believe it’s a man’s job to do so. Everyone thinks I’m ‘manly’ because of my body and voice. I have a fitter body than most men and the men I work with have learnt to take me seriously through the years. But I don’t know why me being a female has 
 anything to do with my job. I want to train women more and help them have healthier lifestyles. I feel empowered with my job when a woman feels comfortable enough at the gym because of me. I want every woman to feel empowered like this.
 
 The machine never knows the gender of the person riding it; it’s all about passion and nothing else:   More, 49, Biker
 The real challenge with being a woman biker lies in the minds of others and not me. There have been times when I’ve had to explain why I ride and it’s not an easy question to answer. But, the machine doesn’t understand the gender of the person riding it, so it’s all about passion and nothing else. My longest solo ride was when I drove to Shirdi for 1800 kms over a span of five days, but I’ve done many rides through the years. Riding is not something I picked up three years ago like many in the city seem to think so. I was a dirt biker in my 20s and I used to love doing stunts on it! However, post 
 engagement I stopped it all and soon marriage and motherhood followed. I did not bike for 28 long years and my duties as a mother and teacher took up most of my time. But when I had to leave my job as a senior coordinator at a school due to my health issues, my son encouraged me to do something more with my life. For years, the only passion I had known was teaching and motherhood, but when he asked me what else I wanted to do with my life, I knew what the answer would be! I bought myself a motorcycle even though I was sceptical at first. I started with small rides, but it didn’t take me long to pick it up again. A lot of people look at me with surprise when I ride in the city, but there are also those who have shown appreciation for what I do. Whenever I ride, I do it for a cause. So far I have spread awareness about women empowerment, cervical cancer and genital hygiene in the villages I travel through. I’ve realised I am capable of doing something for the society in my own way.”
 
 My job is challenging only because of the technicalities of it and not because of my gender:  , 30, Pilot
 I have been flying commercially since 2009 and my job is challenging only because of the technicalities of it and not my gender. I am one of the few female pilots that Vizag has produced but there are women in India who had already paved the path for me. Through the years, I have seen people who are unhappy to see a female pilot and vice versa too. There was an instance when an elderly gentleman had told me he had never felt safer while flying. Instances like that are what I try to remember. There have been instances where people have reacted negatively and made sexist remarks, but at the end of the day, these people don't matter to me, so I brush them off. Because to me, flying never felt difficult simply because I'm a woman and I will never let anyone tell me otherwise.
 
 I believe women have the right and capability both to do whatever they want to if they set their minds to it: M  , 59, Sub-Inspector Traffic, Three Town, Vizag
 Ever since I was a child, I wanted to enter the police force. When I told my parents and relatives about it, they were not happy with my decision. I fought for my right to have a career and through my 36 years of service, I have made a name for myself. I take up every day as a challenge, even after so many years of service. If I'm being honest, I have noticed that women police officers do their work quicker and with more honesty than men because at the back of our mind, the fear remains that people will think we aren’t doing our job well enough because we’re women. But I believe it's all in the mind. Women have the right and capability both to do whatever they want to if they set their minds to it, and no one can tell us otherwise.
 
 Plenty of men are shocked to see me on field, but when they see my work, I see respect in their eyes:  , 23, Photographer
 I’ve had seven years of professional experience, but even before I got my hands on a camera, I would look at various little details around me and wonder how well I would shoot them if only I had a camera. Studying architecture only enhanced my visual sense through the years. For me, the challenge in my job lies in doing something new, better and different from what I did yesterday and I try not to pay heed to those to seem surprised when they see me shooting weddings. Every wedding I shoot, there’s always that one person who comes and asks me plenty of questions because they’re amazed. My work includes not just weddings, but also travel, fine art, food and commercial shoots. Plenty of men seem surprised to see a woman behind the camera, but when they see my work, I see respect in their eyes. I do a lot of bold photoshoots and a lot of my counterparts complain that they can’t shoot with as much ease as I’m able to. Being a woman photographer has helped me show my feminine side from the other end of the spectrum. The female models too seem comfortable with me and express themselves well. 
 
