TIRUNELVELI: A 48-year-old woman attempted self-immolation on the   collectorate premises on Monday demanding justice for her daughter who died under suspicious circumstances in January 2016. 

 The woman, identified as P   of Mavadikkal near  , doused herself with kerosene and tried to set herself ablaze. But police personnel at the collectorate stopped her before she could set herself ablaze. They poured water on her and took her to district collector  . The collector listened to her grievances.
 
 Maheswari said her daughter,  , was just 19 years old when she died. Maheswari alleged that dowry harassment was the reason for her daughter’s death.
 
 The woman said her daughter was studying BA in a college at Kadayanallur when she fell in love with one  , who is now working in   panchayat, and married him in 2014. “Devi had threatened to kill herself if we did not allow her to marry him,” she said.
 
 Maheswari said she had pledged her house to meet the marriage expenses and to give dowry. “She (Devi) was pregnant when her husband demanded more dowry. But I could not do so as I was still repaying loans which I got after mortgaging my house for the marriage,” she said.
 
 The woman said Balasubramani called them around 2pm on January 6, 2016 and told them that Devi had died. “But the private hospital where she was getting treatment told us that Devi was alive when Balasubramani’s family got her discharged,” she said.
 
 Maheswari said that she did not know how and where her daughter had died. “It has been more than two years since she died or was killed. I petitioned the superintendent of police 11 times and the district collector thrice but have not got justice. Even after obtaining a direction from the Tenkasi court, a case has not been registered,” she lamented.
 
 “My daughter has not got justice. Balasubramani got married again (on Sunday). There is no need for me to be alive when my daughter hasn’t got justice. I have been petitioning and pleading vainly for justice for her. So I decided to end my life,” she said.
 
 After listening to her, the collector asked the district police to immediately register a case, conduct an inquiry into the incident and take appropriate action. 
 
 
