BENGALURU: A section of the   in Karnataka is hoping that the party high command will persuade Chief Minister  , the party’s star campaigner, not to contest from the “tough”   constituency in Mysuru district.
 
  Siddaramaiah has announced that he will vacate his current constituency Varuna, considered a safe seat for him, and take on the challenge of winning his old seat Chamundeshwari, which is perceived to be a stronghold of the Janata Dal (S). This is in response to a jibe from former Prime Minister HD Deve Gowda, the national president of the JDS, and his son H D Kumaraswamy, the party’s chief ministerial face, who mockingly asked whether Siddaramaiah could win this seat that he once represented from their party.
  
  “The CM should not go on an ego trip now,” a Congress leader told ET, speaking on condition of anonymity. “He may win Chamundeshwari. But he will have to put so much effort in that and will get tied down to that constituency. Who will campaign in the several other tough seats that only he can win for us?”
  
  Some party leaders have reportedly conveyed this message to the party high command and to the party’s central candidate selection committee headed by Madhusudhan Mistry. “We want them to tell the CM to stick to Varuna and let Chamundeshwari go. Fighting the BJP and winning this state is more important than responding to this silly challenge from the JD(S),” said another Congress leader, who did not wish to be identified.
  
  
  The Congress is worried as about 71,000 of the 2.88 lakh voters in the Chamundeshwari constituency belong to the powerful Vokkaliga community that the Gowdas belong to. Party members contend that there is severe Vokkaliga anger and consolidation against Siddaramaiah, who was once Gowda’s blue-eyed boy.
  
  Their parting of ways was bitter and the Vokkaligas continue to hold that grudge against Siddaramaiah, who belongs to the Kuruba (shepherd) community that is considered lower in the caste hierarchy, Congress members said.
  
  Siddaramaiah, however, told ET that all such “apprehensions” were being raised only by people from outside Chamundeshwari. “This is the safest place for me.” “Even when I won my toughest election from Chamundeshwari, with a margin of 257 in 2006, about 36% of the Vokkaligas here voted for me.”
  
  An “intelligence report” that later turned out to be fake said that Siddaramaiah would not win Chamundeshwari this time. While the CM laughed at it, several other Congress leaders took it seriously and forwarded it on social media, before realising it was a prank whose source could not be identified.
  
  “The widespread perception, despite the CM pointing to some Vokkaliga leaders who are campaigning for him, is that it is a tough seat. He is shifting only to accommodate his son Yathindra in Varuna. We think the high command can say we cannot give fresh tickets to two members of the same family. This will stop him from leaving Varuna, save face for him and ensure he is free to campaign elsewhere,” said another Congress leader.
  
