BELAGAVI: The political   between district in-charge minister   and Athani   MLA   has now reached the next level.

 Although both claim that there are no personal issues between them, the aggression being shown by the leaders against each other shows the rivalry is just not limited to the party level.
 
 Ramesh Jarkiholi organized two huge district-level conventions in Athani in the past one year itself. Both times, chief minister Siddaramaiah took Laxman Savadi to task by quoting the issue of Savadi watching blue films in the assembly, for which the BJP leader had to lose his ministerial berth.
 
 To counter this, Savadi had taken the reponsibility of holding a road show of BJP national president Amit Shah in Gokak, the constituency represented by Jarkiholi. He had made a lot of efforts to gather party workers in large numbers, but the road show was cancelled in the last minute.
 
 Taking the rivalry a notch higher, Jarkiholi declared on Friday that he would be camping in Athani to campaign for the   candidate once the name is out. It’s a million-dollar question among leaders in Congress and BJP about why Jarkiholi is focussing so much on Athani, when he has the responsibility of 18 constituencies in the district.
 
 When asked to comment on Jarkiholi’s statement Savadi said, “Let him come and camp in Athani first. I am ready to face him. I will reply when he is in Athani.” He added that there was no personal rivalry between them.
 
 Lingayat seer becomes 
 
 Jarkiholi’s trumpcard 
 
 To give a strong fight to three-time MLA Savadi in Athani, Jarkiholi has decided to use the Lingayat issue. He has managed to convince Prabhuchannabasav Swami of Motagi Mutt in Athani to contest the elections on a Congress ticket. If all goes according to plan, Prabhuchannabasav Swami will be the first seer in Karnataka to contest on a Congress ticket.
 
 There are other names like Mahesh Kumathalli and Kirankumar Patil in the list of strong aspirants. However, the seer is seen as the first option. 
 
 The young seer, who was on the forefront of the movement for a separate religion status to Lingayats, is known as an orator and motivational speaker.
 
 Speaking to STOI, Prabhuchannabasav Swami said he has already given the green signal to Congress leaders after discussing with disciples of mutt. “Initially, the disciples opposed but after convincing they gave me approval to contest,” he said.
 
 “I am going to enter politics to serve the people and encourage corruption free administration. Besides, I have no hesitation to contest on the ticket of the party, which has conferred minority status to Lingayats”, the seer said. However, he said party leadership yet to take final call on his candidature and he is waiting for the same.
 
 According to political experts, it would be a tough challenge for Laxman Savadi if the seer contests as Motagi Math has lakhs of disciples in and around Athani taluk. Besides, Lingayats are prominent voters in Athani.
 
 
