NAGPUR: The city will soon have a new environment clearance authority. The Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s town planning department has shortlisted six members for the   to look after quick processing of project proposals.

 The department’s proposal to appoint three members on three sub-committees — waste management (solid and liquid), resources efficiency including building material and environment planning including air quality management — will be tabled before the general body meeting to held on February 20.
 
 Those shortlisted include:   and   for waste management, Ganesh Mankar and Parikshit Mudholkar for resources efficiency including building material and Dr   and Dr DS Ramteke for environmental planning including air quality management. Though, the NMC has shortlisted two members for sub-committees, it will need only one expert in each categories.
 
 Besides experts, the cell will comprise three NMC officers who are expert in waste management (solid and liquid), water conservation and management and environment planning. These officers will focus on fields such as environment planning including air quality management, energy efficiency and renewable energy, and resource efficiency including building material.
 
 Remuneration of experts will be fixed as per meetings.
 
 Earlier, the state-level Environmental Impact Assessment Authority under environment department used to issue clearance to infrastructure projects. Developers and government agencies had to approach the committee based in Mumbai for obtaining environmental clearance. As a part of ‘ease of doing business’ concept, the MoEFCC (ministry of environment, forest and climate change) made amendments in its bylaws for granting clearances.
 
 “Following two notifications — in December 2016 by the central government and the other by the state in April 2017 — the NMC was directed to have its own cell with experts in six separate fields to check whether project proposals are adhering to environmental norms under these six parameters,” said a senior civic official. “Under the Centre’s objective of ‘ease of doing business’, the period in which project proposals are cleared needs to be shortened and thus the onus has been shifted to the corporation level.”
 
 A senior official from the NMC’s town planning department said, “According to a state government notification, from April 13, projects up to 5,000 sq mtrs do not require environmental clearance. From 5,000 to 20,000 sq mtrs, a self-certification through proper accreditation from the civic body is needed. Above 20,000 sq mtrs to 1,50,000 sq mtrs, projects require mandatory clearance under environmental norms from this cell. The cell will list an environment impact assessment report and take a decision on whether a project is feasible. The notification also specified that a minimum of three members should be from the corporation and minimum two independent experts were required to form the cell.”
 
 According to him, following a guideline from the state government NMC has already fixed charges for issuing environmental clearance. “It will charge Rs1 lakh for projects costing up to Rs1-50 crore, Rs3 lakh for Rs50-100 crore, Rs5 lakh for Rs100-500 crore, Rs10 lakh for Rs500-1,000 crore and Rs25 lakh for projects above Rs1,000 crore. Penalty will be double the charges in case of non-compliance with environmental clearance conditions,” the officer explained.
 
 Getting environment certificates in Nagpur city itself will fix some of the major problems faced by builders. “Many projects come to a halt in the waiting process. The delay in commencement leads to cost escalation, which ultimately results in buyers bearing the burden of the escalated rates,” said a builder.
 
 Meanwhile, the general administration department has submitted a proposal to appoint the officer equivalent to the rank of additional commissioner (NMC) retired or in service on the board of Nagpur Environmental Services Limited (NESL) as director. The director will be responsible for successful, timely and better execution of various projects.
 
 
