Ludhiana: A group of women formed a gang and tried to make quick money by stealing costly lehangas and wedding dresses from a showroom, hoping to sell the same at cheaper prices, but their inexperience landed them in the police net after their very first major attempt.

 Though the gang of   was successful in stealing dresses worth Rs 1.5 lakh on Friday, their run came to an end on Saturday.
 
 Division Number 1 police arrested six women, all in their 30s, on Saturday. The women, identified as Radha, Babita, Poonam, Jyoti, Pooja and Kaushalya (all residents of Dr Ambedkar Nagar), used to visit shops in the day impersonating as customers and would carry out burglary in the night.
 
 The police have recovered 36 costly lehangas and two sarees from their possession that they had stolen from a shop in Karimpura Bazar on Friday.
 
 Inspector Birbal, SHO, Police Station Division Number 1, said on Friday, a shopkeeper Inderpal Singh of New Kundanpuri lodged a complaint with the police alleging burglary at his garment shop in Karimpura Bazaar.
 
 Inderpal claimed that the burglars had broken the locks of the shutter and stolen expensive wedding dresses. He came to know about the incident on Friday morning.
 
 The inspector said the shopkeeper told him that a group of six women had come to the shop on Thursday afternoon for buying expensive wedding dresses, but they left without buying anything. He suspected the women to be involved in the burglary.
 
 After lodging an FIR, the police started an investigation during which the police found a CCTV footage in which six women were captured while fleeing after executing the crime.
 
 The SHO said, “The police further started tracing the accused. They were seen roaming around the old city market to find another target. On questioning, the accused admitted to their crime. Later, police recovered 35 lehangas from their possession.”
 
 The inspector said the woman belonged to labour families. They all belong to Rajasthan and their families relocated to Ludhiana long time back. Their husbands worked as labourers and the women took to crime to earn more money for their families.
 
 The official said it is suspected that the women might be involved in small thefts which were not reported.
 
 The police produced the accused before the court on Saturday, following which the court has sent them to the police custody for one day.
 
 An FIR has been lodged by the Division number 1 police in this context.
 
 
