Nagpur: Irpa Usendi, cousin to divisional committee member (DVC) and commander of Perimili Local Guerilla Squad (LGS) Sainath, was shot dead around 200 meters from Burgi armed outpost at a busy weekly market in Etapalli taluka of south Gadchiroli on Wednesday. He was fired upon twice on head from close range.

 Sources said the assailants had fired four shots. Two shots were fired in air to disperse the crowd while two to kill Usendi.
 
 A three-member action team of the banned outfit of the CPI (Maoist) killed Usendi, who was one of the accused in the case of arson at the site of Surjagarh mining project of Llyods Mining and Energy Limited when 80 vehicles were torched by the rebels on December 30, 2016. Sources in Gadchiroli said the rebels had strewn pamphlets over the body in which they had labelled him as 'police informer'. Police, however, refuted the claim.
 
 Usendi, along with another person identified as Raja Rajasthani, worked as labour contractors at the mining site. He was initially quizzed by the cops for his role in the arson but was not arrested. It was in February in 2017 that Usendi was nabbed carrying cash Rs4 lakh in a vehicle during a joint checking of police and revenue department prior to the elections. After Usendi failed to explain the source of the cash, he was booked for being a conduit between the mining company representatives and the Maoists. He was later released on bail.
 
 Usendi had been under scanner of the security forces as a covert Maoist sympathizer as he had a habit of flaunting his connections to the top rebel leader. It was also learnt that Reds too suspected that Usendi may have pocketed substantial amount from the mining company and others in their name. It was learnt that some people had warned Usendi to avoid weekly markets. Earlier, security forces used to be vigilant at these markets. However, the practice was later stopped after a police jawan died in a blast at one such market at Kotgul in north Gadchiroli last year.
 
 Addl SP, Gadchiroli, Maheshwar Reddy said, “We are probing the case and jawans from Burgi outpost have already been dispatched after receiving an input regarding Maoists.”
 
 
