By- Mahmudul Hasan

 KOLKATA:   at   are nowadays living sans ray of hope. It has been close to two months that the radiotherapy machine at the oncology department of one of the premier government-run hospitals in city is lying idle.
 
 Daily, 80-100 patients undergo radiation therapy at the hospital. There are days when the number even increases to 130. For all these patients, the chances of survival seem doomed as they have no viable options in hand. “Due to low source activity, new treatment has been withheld temporarily. Kindly attend radiation oncology OPD of another govt hospital,” read the prescriptions of cancer patients here.
 
 The last time radiation was performed at the oncology department of the hospital was in November. Till date, the number of radiotherapy sessions of patients that have been skipped is more than 3,500 and counting, sources said.
 
 Foreseeing such a situation, the oncology HOD initiated all required procedures as getting the radioactive material is a complex process. “We need to get quotations from concerned agencies or even at times invite tenders. This time, the new GST structure has made things even more complicated. Now, the file is at   and we expect to get clearance in a week. But since availability of the radioactive material is also a concern, we don’t know exactly when we can start the therapy again,” said HOD of oncology unit Dr Subir Ganguly.
 
 As if the psychological trauma for these cancer patients was not enough that they now have to run from pillar to post in their desperate attempt to survive.
 
 “Going to other govt facilities like SSKM or NRS and enrolling afresh is likely to take at least 2-3 months for these patients to get a date for radiation therapy. A patient already starting the therapy and then getting next radiation after a gap of 2-3 months would definitely hamper the treatment to say the least,” a doctor at the oncology department said.
 
 When asked about radiotherapy machine being virtually defunct for two months, principal of   and Hospital Suddhadhan Batabyal said, “I don’t know about it. I can’t recall of any such complaint. I have to check the list.”
 
 Hospital sources said the device commonly known as Telecobalt uses radioactive Cobalt 60 for radiation therapy. It is imported from Canada. With time, the element gets exhausted and the radioactivity comes down below the value required to pursue therapy. The radiation emitted by the machine now is not fit for treatment.
 
