GAYA: Trouble is likely to deepen for   officer Parampal Singh as the   ( ) has decided to move the Patna high court for withdrawal of the stay order on cancellation of his degree.

 Singh, currently posted as SSP (rural) in Amritsar, got the Punjab Police Service’s job allegedly on the basis of a fraudulently obtained MU degree. On Saturday, the   district court summoned him to appear before it on May 19 in connection with the criminal case instituted against him in this regard.
 
 As per records, the MU controller of exams in April, 2014 issued a show-cause notice to Singh, asking him why his degree should not be cancelled. The notice, served on his Chandigarh address, informed him that his BA certificate had been suspended.
 
 Giving reasons for the certificate's suspension, the controller of exams said that “during the verification of result of BA special exam held in September 1991, irregularities have been found... It reveals that no record of your admission in session 1987-89 of BA in Kisan College, Sohsarai (Nalanda)”.
 
 The notice directed Singh to submit self- attested copies of his admission receipt, college leaving certificate, registration slip, migration certificate, admit card and exam fee receipt, among other documents, within 15 days, failing which it would be assumed that he had nothing to say in his defence.
 
 Singh filed a petition in the Patna HC, challenging the show-cause notice and obtained a stay order. The matter has been pending since then.
 
 According to MU VC Qamar Ahsan, the university will shortly file a petition in the HC, seeking vacation of the stay to facilitate degree cancellation. Asked why the matter was allowed to hang for so long, Ahsan said all developments took place before he assumed charge of VC and the matter was never brought to his notice. “Now that I have to know, the university will fast-track the matter,” he said on Monday.
 
 According to legal experts, the police officer will automatically lose his job in case the degree is cancelled.
 
 
