In the latest episode of Bigg Boss Marathi, the show’s host   had a discussion about all the incidents inside the house. 

 The episode started with Mahesh's dashing entry on the stage of the show. He sung the song 'Gumnaan Hain Koi Badnaam Hain Koi' and said that this song depicts the current situation in the house. He even said that the housemates have experienced a lot of shocks in the past week. 
 
 Then he took over the house by communicating with the contestants through 'Majhya Baacha TV'.
 
 Before that he showed what all happened on the previous day. Tyagraj, who was a recent wild card entry in the show, sang a song for the housemates. After that Sai,  , Pushkar and Sharmishtha were discussing about  's wrong behaviour towards Sai during the captaincy task. 
 
 Bigg Boss then gave a task to the housemates. According to this new task, they were asked to dress like the famous characters of Bollywood and perform on the famous songs or say a dialogue. Tyagraj was the judge of the task. 
 
  was dressed like ' ' from the movie 'Hera Pheri'.   performed a bold dance on the song 'Kaate Nahi Katate' whereas   perfomed on the song of 'Ek Do Teen'.
 
 After all the hit performances,   had a discussion with all the contestants regarding the previous week. 
 
 Mahesh congratulated Megha and Sai for playing the captaincy task very well. Then he told Aastad that rather than using strength during the tasks, boys must use the brains. 
 
 Mahesh then highlighted Smita's topic. In the previous week, Smita was wearing shorts and she had kept an apron on her feet. There were funny talks going between the housemates and suddenly Sushant pulled her apron from her feet.
 
 Smita lost her temper and then she didn't support Sushant during the captaincy task. So Mahesh tried to know the views of all the housemates on that. Everyone said that whatever Sushant did was not intentional but he should have said sorry to Sushant for doing so. 
 
 Then Mahesh gave a small activity to the housemates. He asked each and everyone in the house to draw a cross on the foreheads of co-contestants, whom they feel are the villains in the house. 
 
 So in this task, Aastad Kale got maximum crosses on his forehead and so he was declared as the villain of the house.
 
