A group of volunteers who were cleaning   near Sungam bypass on Sunday were in for a shock when they found a coffin in the lake. They also removed many discarded used liquor bottles and tonnes of plastic waste at the site. Despite lake cleaning drives consistently happening in namma Coimbatore,   continue to be filled with garbage. At a time when we are fighting for water, isn’t it time to pull up our socks and preserve our water bodies? CT asked a few Coimbatoreans on where we are going wrong…

 Manikandan R of  , an environmental NGO that has been cleaning city’s water bodies actively, tells us that the primary reason for discarding is that there is no strict action taken against those who dump waste in water bodies. “There are tonnes of food waste, medical waste, plastic waste, construction debris that is dumped in the water bodies. Before going for a cleaning drive, we seek permission to clean the lake. The government should also actively take part and in fact, conduct these cleaning drives. We have been cleaning for the last 61 weeks and we have not seen the police or the government taking any action against the offenders. People, who clean the lakes, have not received any encouragement as well so far. Most of the wastes that we come across are plastic waste, medical waste, liquor and debris. The lakes have become an open bar. Miscreants drink and sometimes even pick a fight here. Selvachinthamani Lake, on the other hand, is used for open defecation. We need to take these issues seriously.”
 
 According to Sanjay Prasad, chief co-ordinator of  , the biggest challenge is the lack of public participation. “Though we have been cleaning the lakes in the city every week, we haven’t been getting many active volunteers. The kind of waste that’s dumped into water is human waste, fecal matter, bird feather, diapers along with tonnes of plastic. The new volunteers who come with us sometimes hesitate to come the following week, when they realise what they are going to put their hands into. Many a time the public itself have asked us why we were wasting our time.” He adds, “And, that’s not all. Most of us are completely ignorant of how we get our water. As long as we get water from our taps, we are happy. We have completely neglected the water bodies on earth. Many of us don’t even know how many lakes this city has.”
 
 So, how are they going to spread awareness on the same? “Without involving the entire community in conserving water bodies, it’s difficult to maintain the same. We have been spreading awareness through wall paintings, street plays and screening documentaries in schools and colleges. We are constantly trying to tell people that they should not dump waste in water bodies. After we cleaned the Muthannankulam Lake, the dumping of garbage has stopped to an extent. This is the lake where people dump religious waste. We even reached a compromise where we got it from them and discarded all the non-biodegradable items. After we clean a local body, we also ask the local residents and the shops in the neighbourhood to not dump waste in water.”
 
 PR Selvaraj, president of   says that though some of the residents dump without understanding the bearing of their action, there are many others who dump in water bodies voluntarily. “For them, all that matters is convenience or proximity. These are the people who are not bothered about the eco-system. This can be controlled only with stringent monitoring and punishment. Patrolling or CCTV, anything that can control the situation works. “
 
 And, what will be the impact on the environment if we continue to dump waste? “There will definitely be a disturbance in bio-diversity. The growth of small plants, grass, insects and fish would be affected. The toxic matter in the lake will also affect the fish and other aquatic plants & animals. With time, there will be ecological imbalance, which may even lead to an epidemic breakout.”
 
 Manikandan says that though awareness is on the rise, we need to go a long way. “If people see a clean lake, they think twice before dumping waste. But only stringent punishment and fine for the offenders can bring the situation under control and give a new lease of life to our water bodies.”
 
  
 
