CHANDIGARH: The Haryana cabinet has rejected a proposal for increasing the   age of employees from 58 to 60 years. In a meeting chaired by chief minister  , the cabinet decided that the government could   but that would be approved by a three-member committee headed by the chief secretary. The re-employment would be done on the recommendation of the department head.

 
 The announcement to increase the retirement age was made by the chief minister on February 2, 2017, at an event in Panchkula. The move would have benefited around 2.35 lakh employees of the state government and would immediately have an impact on around 50,000 employees who have retired in the past two years or those going to retire in the next two years.
 
 In a decision related to the MLAs, the cabinet also gave a nod to increase the grant of petty cash to Rs 15 lakh per annum for them. The grant has been increased by Rs 3 lakh. With this, the MLAs will be able to announce audit free grants. The government had last increased grants of the CM, ministers, deputy ministers, speaker and deputy speaker in September 2017. Grants to be announced by the speaker and the cabinet ministers were increased from Rs 5 crore to 7 crore per annum, while the grant for the ministers of state was increased from Rs 4 crore to 5 crore.
 
 Giving relief to people planning to sell or buy flats or plots in cooperative societies, the cabinet approved a policy which proposes a slab system for maintenance charges and fixed fee for transfer of real estate. Haryana Shahri Vikas Pradhikaran ( ), formerly called  , have carved out such societies in Sonipat, Palwal, Bahadurgarh, Karnal, Panipat, Panchkula, Gurgaon and Faridabad.
 
 The cabinet also announced to form a policy for regularizing illegal commercial buildings within the limits of municipal bodies. These proposals were part of the agenda during the meeting of the Haryana cabinet chaired by CM Manohar Lal Khattar.
 
 While giving the go-ahead to a new and simplified system for the transfer of flats in society records, the cabinet also put its seal on resuming new registration of societies in Haryana.
 
 Referring to maintenance charges, sources informed that unlike previous years, when charges were fixed by nominated bodies without any consideration, now the charges will be fixed in accordance to the size of the flat or plot. Also, a minimum amount of Rs 10,000 will be fixed for the purpose of registration of a new unit holder of the society. It is alleged that managements would earlier charge a hefty amount from new members.
 
