Surat: A young salesman at the city’s oldest shopping mall at Athwalines succumbed to head injuries when a portion of wall collapsed inside the mall on Wednesday. 

 The Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) has ordered the mall owner to carry out structural stability report and close the mall till further orders. The incident occurred at city’s oldest Dhiraj Sons mall located on Athwaline main road at about 11.15 am. 
 
 The fire and emergency department officials said the wall was constructed a couple of months ago and it was supported with concrete beam and false ceiling structure. On Wednesday morning, the wall suddenly collapsed and one salesman was buried under the debris. 
 
 The person has been identified as Rupsinh Vasava (21), a resident of Mahalaxmi Residency in Nanpura. He was taken out from the pile of debris inside the mall and was shifted to the New Civil Hospital (NCH). Vasava succumbed to serious head injuries at NCH within half-an-hour of his admission. 
 
 Sources said the shopping mall owners had carried out internal renovation few months ago. The mall was revamped to provide more space to customers and to add other shopping racks, including vegetable and fruit counters. 
 
 Talking to TOI, chief fire officer S K Acharya said, “The wall was constructed few months ago and it was supported with the beam and upper false ceiling. The wall collapsed burying a salesman. Shopping malls are public place frequented by citizens and store owners should take utmost safety measures.”
 
 Additional city engineer and chief of Athwa zone A G Khatiwala said, “We have asked the mall owners to get the structural stability test done from government approved agency and submit the report. Till then, the owners have been asked to shut the mall.”
 
 Talking to TOI, owner of Dhiraj Sons Ankur Modi said, “It was an unfortunate incident where we have lost our young salesman. The mall is almost 15 years old and this is first such incident. We will be doing the structural stability of the entire building at the earliest.”
 
 
