Stuck in the massive   backlog, many Indians from the north Indian states of Punjab and Haryana are finding themselves in an awkward situation. Even after spending years on the US soil, these Indian expats, who come under highly-skilled bracket, are unsure about their future as their wait to get Green Card or legal permanent residency could take another two to three decades.

 
 “After every three years, I am at the mercy of the visa officer who is going to decide my future. And this whole process is very subjective with so many loopholes. All my research work, patents, client referrals are of no use at that time,” said Rahul Garg, an alumnus of IIT Delhi and a native of   in Punjab.
 
 Garg had migrated to Seattle city, in Washington state, on H1-B visa in 2002 to work as Product Lead in one of the top three American IT giants.
 
 “I have to go for visa renewal every three years and I cannot do it while I am in the US. So either I go to Canada or to India to apply for the renewal. It is actually a struggle as it involves a long course of paperwork, consultation with my company’s lawyers and planning of a lot of logistics in advance. This is just like a dreaded holiday as sometimes you will get approval from the US consulate within a week or sometimes it could take up to three weeks,” said Achint Mehta, who works in a robotics company in Silicon Valley Bay Area in California.
 
 
 Originally from   in Haryana, Mehta was issued a H1-B visa for highly-skilled workers in specialty jobs in 2004. Last month hundreds of Indian professionals held peaceful rallies across the US, demanding an immediate solution to the unending Green Card backlog by removing the illogical per-country quota rules. According to the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS), the per country quota to get Green Card is capped at 7% and the current wait period of many highly-skilled Indian applicants can go beyond 80 years.
 
 
 This arbitrary capping clearly creates a holdup for Indian and Chinese workers who are apparently among the highest numbers of applicants.
 
 
 “The US federal government offers Green Cards on the basis of various   and quotas that give preference to those applicants who are sponsored by family members. This further minimizes the scope of those Indian immigrants who are applying purely on the employment basis,” said Jimmy Sandhu, a US immigration lawyer, from Jalandhar district of Punjab, who is based in Baltimore city, Maryland.
 
 
 “There are rough estimates that highly-skilled Indian expats, who had applied in 2010, will not become permanent residents until 2100, if changes are not made to country-based quota system,” added Sandhu.
 
 Indian engineers constitute the majority of the total number of expats, who are waiting for the approval of their Green Card application. “Psychologically it is very draining. In three years, nothing has changed – same job, same project and same title and still we are going through the same arduous cycle. If you are lucky, you will get the visa and even after that you have to undergo a series of questions from the custom officials, once you land at the US airport,” said Silicon Valley based Puneet Randhawa, an   from Amritsar city in Punjab.
 
 Amidst all this, Donald Trump administration has further tightened the regulations of H1-B visa. As per the new rule, US Immigration officers could seek detailed documentation from companies to ensure they have particular projects in a skilled occupation for the H1-B visa beneficiary.
 
