PUNE: With Pune station generating more than 2lakh kilowatt (KW) of solar power, senior officials have said that equipment capable of generating 1.2 MWp (megawatt peak) of power will be installed at different spots under Pune division.

 “The Pune division has been concentrating on power from solar energy and many initiatives have been taken. We intend to generate 17.52 lakh KW of power by installing solar panels at different places. This will help us save Rs 1.47 crore annually,” Pune divisional railway manager (DRM)   said on Friday.
 
 Another official told TOI that the equipment, which mainly consists of solar panels and photo voltaic cells, will be set up at different stations under   division. “The plan is being worked out and will be implemented shortly. Solar panels have been installed at many level crossings under Pune division. With fresh plan, more savings will be made and money can be used for other purposes mainly related to enhancing security and adding facilities,” the official pointed out.
 
 The official said that at all stations under the division, conventional lights had been replaced by LED lights. “In order to save power, the division has signed an agreement with   ( ). Under the agreement, all electrical gadgets like fans, air conditioners etc, installed at different offices under the division, will be replaced by energy-efficient ones. This will result in saving of 7.31 lakh KW of power and lead to a saving in revenue of Rs 61.39 lakh yearly,” the official pointed out.
 
 The ministry of railways plans to introduce solar panels at different railway stations. Central railway has been allotted 9.2MW of solar power. Out of this, 1.115MW will be generated in Pune division. Railway sources said solar panels will be installed on overhead sheds of platforms 4, 5 and 6 under the Pune station.
 
 “The present capacity of the solar power plant in Pune station is 123KW with average yearly generation of around 2,55,500 KW. Through this we save Rs 20,44,000 yearly. Out of 69 stations, LED lights have been installed at 57 stations until now under the Pune division. Solar panels were first installed at reservation and booking offices at Pune station in 2016,” the official added.
 
 
