There was much drama at several traffic junctions in Gurgaon on Saturday morning with the  , who had launched a drive to book traffic rule violators, getting more than it bargained for. The cops were observing ' ,' and Road Safety Officers (RSOs) and members of the   also participated in the drive. Even as there were a number of offenders who not just argued with the cops and RSOs, but also created a ruckus, the number of challans issued on Saturday was seven times higher than on a regular day.

  
  Helmets were also distributed to a few offenders during the drive
 
 
 
 
 Traffic constables stopping two-wheeler riders for not wearing helmets caused jams at several junctions. The offenders requested, threatened and even wept, asking the cops to let them go, but the cops were in no mood to oblige.
 
 When two bikers were stopped at Sethi Chowk as they were not wearing helmets, the guy who was riding the bike asked a constable, "Ab bike pe chaar log baithenge, toh kya chaar helmet pehnaoge? Yeh toh maine kabhi suna nahi." The constable asked him, "Chaar allowed nahi hai. Pehle ka bhi challan katoon tumhara?" 
 
 There were others who blamed illnesses, like one who said, "I did not wear a helmet as I have fever, and the helmet is heavy." Not one to give up easily, some traffic offenders even decided to take up the matter further and called their 'contacts', but cops refused to listen to them.
 
  
  A woman being fined for not wearing a helmet 
 
 
 
 The offenders, determined to get away, gave excuses from 'jalebi lene subah helmet pehen kar kaun jata hai?' to 'bank aaya tha emergency mein paise nikalne'. Those who had hung their helmets on their bikes were allowed to go with a warning.
 
 The drive, which went on from 10am to 6pm, yielded Rs25,49,600 in fines, and 21,769 vehicles were challaned, which is seven times higher than on regular days. In an official statement, Gurgaon Police said, "Normally, the Gurgaon Traffic Police and area police challan around 3,500 vehicles in a day, but during the drive today, the number of vehicles that were challaned stood at 21,769."
 
 
  
  
 
 The District Taxation Bar Association members and Road Safety Officers said that the police asked them to join them to observe Zero Tolerance Day, and they distributed free helmets to traffic offenders.
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
