NEW DELHI: Reiterating that the interest of homebuyers was paramount, the   stalled on Wednesday the Reserve Bank of India’s move to initiate proceedings under the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC) before the   ( ) against   ( ) for its failure to settle its Rs 25,000 crore debt with banking institutions. 

 A bench of Chief Justice Dipak Misra and Justices A M Khanwilkar and D Y Chandrachud, which had earlier asked JAL to deposit Rs 750 crore by January 25 to protect the interest of those who had bought flats in housing projects Jaypee Infratech Ltd (JIL), JAL’s sister concern, warned against any attempt to restructure JAL behind the scenes. “If any merger, demerger or restructuring happens without the consent of the court, it will be contempt of court and then Tihar Jail will not be far for the directors of JAL,” the CJI said. 
 
 The court listed the matter for further hearing on February 5. We are not concerned how the IBC operates. Homebuyers must get their house or a refund. We want to make it absolutely clear that we are not going to send homebuyers running to different forums to recover their money. They are the most vulnerable investors and their interest must be protected first. RBI appears to intend to protect the interest of big investors,” the bench added. On the SC’s order, a portal was set up for homebuyers to register their claims relating to housing projects of JIL, which was taken to NCLT Allahabad by an IDBI-led consortium for insolvency proceedings under the IBC. Taking over the matter from NCLT, the SC asked the interim resolution professional to submit its report to the court and said homebuyers’ interest would be protected first, followed by that of other investors. 
 
 
  
 On Wednesday, the CJI-led bench asked amicus curiae Pawan Shree Agrawal to set up another portal to enable JAL homebuyers to lodge their claims and asked the company to file an affidavit in seven days detailing its housing projects all over the country and the stages of their construction. “Homebuyers with JAL cannot be left without an option,” the bench said. RBI counsel Saurav Kripal said the banking regulator knew about the pending case against JIL and JAL, so it decided to inform the court about the legally mandated procedure to be followed against JAL. It quoted the SC’s September 11 order which said that though JAL was not a party to the proceedings against JIL, it would have to deposit Rs 2,000 crore to protect the interest of homebuyers. 
 
 However, under the Banking Regulation (Amendment) Ordinance, 2017, promulgated on May 4 last year, RBI was authorised to initiate insolvency proceedings against companies which had defaulted on more than Rs 5,000 crore to banking institutions. Based on this, RBI said it had issued directions to some banks to initiate corporate insolvency resolution process under IBC against 12 stressed accounts. JAL was given six months for resolution. Since there was no resolution, it sought the SC’s permission to take JAL to NCLT under the IBC. 
 
 Appearing for JAL, counsel Mukul Rohatgi and Anupam Lal Das opposed RBI’s move. But advocate Tasneem Ahmadi, appearing for a homebuyer in JAL’s studio apartment project in Buddh Circuit-II in Noida, said there was a move to restructure the company under the guise of proceedings in NCLT. The bench said RBI’s application would be considered at a later stage and warned against any surreptitious move to restructure companies under the Jaypee Group. Das informed the court that JIL had already deposited Rs 425 crore in the SC and it would deposit another Rs 125 crore by January 25. He said JIL had offered possession of 3,725 homes by March 31, 2017, while another 2,135 homes were completed by December 31 last year. 
 
 He added that between January and March 2018, construction of 3,351 more houses would be completed.
