Was   a happy man at the end of 2014? He knew he was going to win the Ballon d’Or and   had completed the Decima. But wasn’t there something that was bothering him?

 
 
 
 Documentaries on him suggest there was. Ronaldo hated the fact that he had to leave the World Cup after the group stage with nothing to show. And what pained him even more was the fact that he played the tournament with an injury. “I was not fit enough. If it wasn’t the World Cup I wouldn’t have played,” Ronaldo said later, trying to come to terms with his bruised ego and the fact that Lionel Messi was there till the final, walking away with the Golden Ball.
 
 
 
 Three goals from 13 World Cup games is terrible return by Cristiano standards, but that’s where the Portuguese magician stands after three consecutive appearances. Compare this to his Real Madrid exploits, where the winger-turned-striker scores goals for fun. The obvious question keeps cropping up — is Cristiano just a club superstar?
 
 This we can debate all night. The dynamics of playing for   are completely different from playing for Real Madrid. Both Portugal and Real play a quick counter-attack game, but at Bernabeu, the engine room is of a different class. The likes of Casemiro, Luka Modric, Toni Kroos and Isco provide him with a support system that a scorer can dream of. It’s not the same playing for his country where Cristiano has to provide for himself and also be the inspirational leader which a mediocre side like Portugal so desperately needs.
 
 Cristiano did both during the Euros 2016, scoring three and setting up another three among the nine that Portugal scored on way to the title. But despite all the euphoria of creating the biggest Euro upset since Greece in 2004, Cristiano will always be pained by the fact that he could play only 15 minutes of the final before being stretchered off with an injury following a challenge by France’s Dimitri Payet. Pictures of a sobbing Cristiano hobbling around the sideline as his team fought to hold on to the lead in extra-time infused an element of a tragic hero in his persona. But believe it or not, Cristiano would have loved to rip off the shirt after scoring the winning goal than wait for his teammates to do the job for him.
 
  
  
 Portugal didn’t care though. They hailed Cristiano as their Euro hero and he returned the compliment over the next two years, becoming the highest scorer for his country in the World Cup qualifiers as they made the finals on the last day beating Switzerland.
 
 But in these two years, a lot has changed. Cristiano is 33, he is no longer the winger who could create his chances on his own – out of thin air. With age, injury and exhaustion, he is a fraction slower, which gives defenders across Europe that extra second to put in the crunching tackle, which may not be enough to stop Messi. Cristiano’s prowess from free-kicks just outside the box is also on the wane — he hasn’t scored a single goal from a free-kick this season even as Messi continues to make those set-pieces look as potent as penalty corners in hockey.
 
 But Cristiano’s Real coach, Zinedine Zidane, is a canny operator and he uses the remodelled CR7 as the fox in the box.
 
 These days he is hardly the player who is showing off his step-overs, trying to fool the defenders and working his way into the box. Rather he is happy to score 75 percent of his goals with his first touch that includes a lethal header.
 
 But will that be enough when he is playing for Portugal? It’s impossible for Cristiano to reinvent himself all over again before Russia and for the goal machine to be at his peak, the support cast of Moutinho, Bernard Silva and a few other not-so-famous names have to step up.
 
 The one area Cristiano wouldn’t complain about heading into the World Cup is fatigue. It’s true that he had a very long season for Real Madrid which would end with the Champions League final in Kiev against Liverpool, but Zidane has handled him with extreme care throughout the season. Even at the cost of dropping points in La Liga that kept slipping away from Real, Zidane looked to rest Ronaldo in games against smaller teams. Forget smaller teams, with the score 1-1 against Atletico, Zidane took him off and then at the Clasico, the moment there was a hint of an injury, the Portuguese was replaced even when his team had the golden opportunity to push for the kill against a 10-man Barcelona.
 
 Zidane’s immediate concern was obviously Champions League, but it also ensured that Cristiano wouldn’t be travelling to the World Cup on one leg, the way he did in 2014.
 
 And once the Portuguese superstar is in Russia, all his Real Madrid camaraderie with Sergio Ramos will vanish. Spain are first up and it’s a team that he hates to lose against. The likes of Ramos, Gerard Pique and Dani Carvajal would pre-empt every single trick that Cristiano has to offer and it’s going to stretch the forward to his limits. So much that the legend might have to turn the clock back for that one day and be the arrogant teenager who used to blaze the flanks at Sporting Lisbon and Old Trafford.
 
 Run Cristiano, run, one last time.
 
