BATHINDA: Harminder Singh Jassi, former   and a close relative of rape convict Dera Sacha Sauda head  , on Friday tried to disassociate himself from the Sirsa-based sect and demanded a CBI probe into the Maur blast of January 2017. 

 Jassi's move has come a few days after   claimed to have got major leads behind the blast, which indicate the involvement of Sirsa-based dera in the incident. 
 
 Jassi said the dera did not vote for him in the 2012 assembly elections or the 2014 byelection from Talwandi Sabo. Seven persons, including five children, had died in the Maur blast, triggered using an improvised explosive device (IED), on January 31, 2017, just four days before the voting for assembly polls in Punjab. The bomb had gone off in a busy market area just when Jassi's convoy was passing by after campaigning in the area.
 
 Jassi said though a lot has been said about the dera hatching the conspiracy, he would not like to say anything at the moment as police were still investigating the matter. The Congress leader said anything could be said after investigations were over and police had unearthed the whole conspiracy.
 
 He, however, said as the families of the victims wanted the investigations to be handed over to CBI, he also endorsed their demand to unravel the whole conspiracy. 
 
 The former MLA declined to talk about dera members Gurtej Singh Kala and Amrik Singh, who had allegedly played a key role in modifying the car used in the Maur blast.
 
 He said, "I have no relations with the dera anymore, except for the fact that my daughter is married to the sect chief's son. I go to the dera only occasionally to meet my relatives but I do not interfere in its functioning."
 
 Jassi also denied his role in the disappearance of Honeypreet Insan and cash from the dera. He also denied that he wanted his son-in-law to be the dera head when Gurmeet was jailed.
 
 Jassi said he didn't go to Panchkula on August 25, 2017 when Gurmeet was convicted for rape. He said his estranged nephew   was making vague allegations that the blast was a conspiracy hatched by him. He said Gora wanted the Congress ticket to contest from Maur and when he was denied, he started speaking against him.
 
 
