NAGPUR: On the day vice chancellor SP Kane was busy holding the emergent Management Council meeting along with four other top   (NU) officials at its main administrative building’s Jal P Gimi Hall on Tuesday,   director Sunil   alleged that the VC was present for a hearing before the district and sessions court.

 Mishra had filed a criminal application before the district and sessions court, which issued notice to Kane last Tuesday.
 
 Mishra has levelled a charge of moral turpitude against Kane, who, as controller of examinations, had allegedly failed to disassociate himself from the exam work when his daughter was appearing in her BE Exam in summer 2012. Kane held the charge from November 15, 2010 to November 13, 2012.
 
 Ironically, on both occasions Kane chaired meetings to decide course of action against Mishra, the CIIMC director circulated the “court development” on social media. On May 15, the Board of Examinations & Evaluation met to decide action in the case where Mishra surrendered bogus marklist. On Tuesday, the Management Council approved retired judge BC Chandrikapure’s report against CIIMC in the scholarship scam.
 
 Addressing a press conference following the council meeting in the evening, Kane said he was appalled to learn that Mishra was posting such false messages on social media. “My counsel informed me that the judge was on leave, and the next hearing would be on June 6. My colleagues showed me the messages posted by Mishra on social media. It is on record that I was present in the university since morning,” he said.
 
 Kane said even otherwise the VC doesn’t have to be personally present, and is represented by his lawyer in such matters. He added that Mishra has been making personal attacks on him and challenging the integrity of the vice chancellor’s post without any substance.
 
 “Today  , Mishra has not just defamed me but also misrepresented court proceedings by claiming that the VC attended the hearing,” Kane said. Lashing out at Mishra, the VC said the Kohchade convict had anticipated the BoE and Management Council’s move, and hence tried to put pressure by filing baseless cases in court.
 
 For the full report, log on to www.timesofindia.com
 
 Earlier, Mishra had written to the chancellor, informing him that Kane had failed to inform the Board of Examination (BoE) as well as disassociate himself from exam work. Mishra had first moved the HC, but withdrawn the case on May 4 to approach the magistrate.
 
 Mishra submitted to the court that it is a case of ‘moral turpitude’ as Kane is occupying the highest position under the law. According to the application, Kane’s act attracts action under Section 44(E) of the Old Act or Section 64 of the New Act.
 
 
