JAIPUR:   tariff hike in the poll-bound year has invited sharp criticism from the opposition party and residents of the city. 

 The state government, for the second consecutive year, has hiked the water tariff by 10% with effect from Sunday. The move will affect 4.70 lakh users in Jaipur. 
 
 This year, the public health and engineering department (PHED) has increased water tariff for consumers using water supplied from PHED sources up to 8,000 litre per month. Consumers will now have to pay Rs 1.89 per thousand litre instead of existing rate of Rs 1.76 per thousand litre. Last year, there was no rise in water tariff on consumers using water supplied from PHED sources up to 8,000 litre per month.
 
 PCC president   said, “The BJP government’s economic policies have led to inflation which is exploiting the common man. The 10% hike in water tariff pinch the pocket of the commoners.” 
 
 The PHED has also increased charges by Rs 35 for procuring new connection. Now, the residents will have to pay Rs 605 fee, for new connection instead of existing rate 550. Moreover, residents falling under below poverty line (BPL) category will also have to pay increased rates to procure new connections. BPL applicants will now have to pay Rs 121 to procure new connections. 
 
 Former Jaipur MLA and City   president   said, “We would stage a protest against the state government’s decision at the PHED zone offices in every ward on Monday. The department has devised a faulty planning. Last year, the tariff was increased after 17 years. Now, the department has announced to increase 10% water tariff every year which is wrong. The residents are already reeling under the pressure to pay high electricity bills,” he added.
 
 Along with 10% increase in water and sewerage fee, the PHED has also increased infrastructure charge, meter service charge, renew fee by 50%. This will result in 25% of the increase in water tariff in total bill amount. The residents are expected to receive bill with increased rate between Rs 110 to Rs 400 from next month.
 
 Rama Jain, a resident of Vaishali Nagar, said, “It is government’s basic duty to provide water at nominal rate to residents. The government should not calculate profit and loss in basic requirement. I request the state government to roll back the tariff hike.” 
 
 
