KOLKATA: When Kolkata Knight Riders take guard against   at Eden Gardens on Friday, they will have something more than the advantage of playing on their home ground.

 
 The Kolkata team will confidently go into the virtual semi-final after four straight victories. But the Hyderabad team, despite finishing at the top of the table, lost the last four matches. Thus, these statistics have raised the expectations of the Kolkata fans cheering for their team to win the second qualifier.
 
 “Everything is in Kolkata’s favour this time. And the way they played against   to win the match must have boost their confidence,” said  , a businessman who will be watching the match with his friends.
 
 The excitement around the match was palpable at Mohammedan Sporting Ground, where thousands of fans descended to try their luck with the tickets on Thursday.
 
 “The tickets have been completely sold out. Only those who booked online are being handed over their tickets. The blackmarketeers are selling tickets for thrice the amount of the selling price,” said a despondent Ranadhir Dey, who returned empty handed without a ticket.
 
 Such was the demand for ticket that even those who booked them online and turned up at Mohammedan Sporting Ground to pick up the tickets alleged they did not get their tickets. Some agitated fans said that officials had been selling tickets to the blackmarketeers.
 
 “The blackmarketeers outside have tickets to the best blocks in the stadium while we are being made to wait outside the counters,” said Abhishek Mukherjee, a diehard Kolkata fan.
 
 On Friday, all eyes will be on Andre Russell who scored a match-winning 49 on Wednesday. “If Russell keeps up his performance, the match will be ours. Others just need to hang in there and provide support to him,” said Kaushik Das, an under-17 batsman with the Howrah Union Club.
 
 If the Kolkata team defeats the Hyderabad team on Friday, they will be playing against Chennai Super Kings on Sunday to be the   champions for the third time. The knight riders had defeated the superkings in 2012 to win the title for the first time. But then they were being led by  .
 
 “Karthik may not be a start cricketer but he has used his resources intelligently and brought the time to this stage. I feel the momentum is with Kolkata to win this year’s title,” said Arijit Bag, an avid fan of the Kolkata team.
 
