KOLKATA:   and offers, along with shrinking incentives, city   say they are being forced to increase their work hours. Longer hours become essential for them to be able to earn enough to pay for EMI, fuel, maintenance, permit fees and insurance, apart from the profits, to meet their monthly expense.

 “These days there is so much competition and so little incentive that we have to work extra hours, often 20-24 hours at a stretch, to meet our targets and earn a little extra by bagging the incentives offered by the company. At times, the offers are so lucrative that we have no choice but to grasp them, often taxing our health in the process,” said Subir Dutta, who has been an Uber driver for the past five years.
 
  
 The Uber target is to complete 120 trips in a week and the incentive is Rs 5,000. The target is divided in two. For trips between Monday to Thursday, the target is to complete 60 rides, and the rest is to be completed over the weekend.
 
 Ola, too, has similar schemes, but the incentives here are mostly earning-based. For daily rides of Rs 3,300, Rs 2,400 and Rs 1,700, there is an incentive of Rs 2,000, Rs 1,100 and Rs 450 per week, an operator said. Ola also has a ride-based pattern where a driver can earn an incentive of up to Rs 1,700 per week for completing seven rides between 6pm and 12pm and up to Rs 5,750 by completing 21rides every day between 8am and 12 pm.
 
 To ensure cabs are available after midnight, both Ola and Uber come up with time-based offers and schemes. “The target is often difficult to achieve, but that is what keeps us going. If you are short by one trip, you won’t get the incentive. Hence, we often work extra hours,” said Santosh Jha, an Ola driver.
 
 On Sunday, an Uber driver at the wheel for over 14 hours had dozed off at the Prince Anwar Shah Connector and EM Bypass crossing and crashed into a bus shelter and two makeshift shops.
 
 App cab operators, however, say they don’t push their drivers to meet the quota count. An Ola official said the firm issues timely directives on safe driving.
 
 An Uber spokesperson said: “In order to ensure that our driver partners drive responsibly, we have features like in-app notifications that remind them to take rest in case they are behind the wheels for long hours. Additionally, our community guidelines encourage drivers to take breaks if they are feeling tired.”
 
 
