CHANDIGARH: Even as the Punjab unit of AAP is revolting against party chief and Delhi CM  , its Haryana unit has announced that it would project the Delhi model of governance as its election agenda for the state. Jointly addressing the newspersons here on Friday, AAP-backed   member Sushil Gupta and Haryana unit head   said this while elaborating on the party’s plans for March 25 rally in Hisar and thereafter the general and assembly elections next year.

 “We have the Delhi model of education and public health to offer when it comes to governance. Now students from reputed schools have started taking admission in the government schools in Delhi due to raised standards of education. Similarly, you can see that the national government too has picked up our model of mohalla clinics,” said Gupta.
 
 However, Gupta avoided queries related to reactions of AAP leaders in Punjab in the wake of apology tendered by Kejriwal to Akali leader Bikram Majithia for linking him to drug trade in Punjab. Responding to same question, Jaihind said, “Kejriwal has to concentrate on governance in the state. Secondly, there is nothing wrong in tendering an apology.”
 
 Haryana unit of AAP on Friday said the party workers would hand over a “chargesheet highlighting the corruption and wrongdoings of Manohar Lal Khattar-led BJP government” to its convener Arvind Kejriwal during his Hisar rally on March 25.
 
 They said party workers were finalizing the contents of ‘chargesheet’ which would include corruption at all levels across the state.
 
 Referring to the Hisar rally, Gupta said it would be a landmark event and bigger than those organized by the Congress, BJP and INLD held in Hodal, Jind and New Delhi, respectively.
 
 “Unlike petrol rally and other rallies organized by ‘CBI’ (  and INLD), our workers will reach there on their own. We cannot offer petrol, money and other things, hence we are distributing yellow rice as an invite. So far as the party is concerned, AAP has emerged as the only alternative in the state,” said Jaihind. Gupta also said that AAP was the only option for the people now.
 
 
