GURUGRAM: Women’s safety in the otherwise bustling stretches in the city — especially   and Sohna Road — has been an issue of grave concern for quite some time despite the city authorities and police making tall claims of preparedness to tackle crimes.

 In the absence of effective police patrol and  , commuting in these stretches post   is a daunting task. The rape of a woman on Sunday night has once again exposed flaws in the security system in these areas.
 
 TOI found that most areas on Golf Course Road Extension and Sohna Road remain unlit during night. Shockingly, the stretch near the women’s   in Sector 51, which is barely 2 kilometres from the spot where the woman was raped and her family members were assaulted, also remains unlit owing to lack of enough streetlights.
 
 There are 18,293 streetlights in Huda sectors 1-57. Of them, 40% streetlights are defunct, while 25% don’t have tube lights or bulbs. Also, Huda sectors have only 1,566 high-mast lights.
 
 A reality check has revealed that the 11-km Golf Course Road Extension has only one police check post. Similarly, the Subhash Chowk-Vatika Chowk stretch on Sohna road also has only one police check post. It has been found out that Haryana Roadways operates only five city buses on the stretches that connect Sohna road with Huda City Centre, while no city bus plies on Golf Course Road Extension.
 
 “Many new societies and highrises have come up on these roads, but they lack basic civic facilities like streetlights,” said Jyotsna Trivedi, a resident of Palm Drive, which is on the Golf Course Road Extension. 
 
 Women in these areas claimed they are living in fear. “The rape and assault on a family took place at a spot that is very close to Golf Course Extension Road. It’s very disturbing. We need better police   here, and also want liquor vends in the locality shut by 10pm,” said Puja Misra, a resident of Nirvana Country in Sector 50.
 
 Janaki Chawla, an IT professional, who works in an MNC based out of Sohna Road, said that men in cars stalk women on these stretches even during the day. “They make lewd comments. Many women are forced to walk on the road owing to the lack of public transport,” she said.
 
 
