CHENNAI: Latha* likes to walk her grandson to his kindergarten on Jawaharlal Nehru Salai (100 Feet Road) every morning.

 From  , where she lives, to the nursery school in Jafferkhanpet, Latha’s 15-minute trip involves listening to her grandson’s tall tales and his dreams from the previous night. Throughout their walk, Latha never lets go off her grandson’s tiny hand and it remains tightly clenched in her palms.
 
 “Even at 7.30am, there are just too many vehicles (on 100 Feet Road) and they are too close for comfort. It is difficult to walk here without having to look over my shoulder every five seconds,” Latha said.
 
 The ‘here’ she referred to is the portion of Jawaharlal Nehru Salai from Ashok Pillar to the junction of 11th avenue and onwards to the Mambalam-Guindy taluk office. Here,   are either encroached on, damaged or non-existent. And where present, these pavements do more harm than good to  .
 
 “Pedestrian infrastructure amounts to nought in this neighbourhood,” said K Ramaswamy, a resident of Vaigai Colony, Ashok Nagar.
 
 Local residents like Ramaswamy have petitioned and re-petitioned the city’s civic authorities, trying to alert them to the footpath situation. But they have always come up short in their attempts. “Poorly designed footpath is the main issue. Pavements are more of an obstacle course than safe walking zone on this road. Whatever little pavement space is left is also lost to encroachments. Even after complaints to city corporation officers, nobody has moved a muscle,” Ramaswamy said.
 
 For instance, a newly constructed building near the Ganesha temple has brazenly built a ramp over the footpath. “Even the storm water drain openings are covered. How will rainwater flow into the drain?” Ramaswamy said. 
 
 While the maintenance of 100 Feet Road is the responsibility of the state highways department, the stretch from Ashok Pillar to the Mambalam-Guindy taluk office is maintained by the Bus Route Road department of Greater Chennai Corporation.
 
 “We are slowly taking up pedestrian infrastructure improvement works in the region. At present, several footpath projects are underway in T Nagar. Soon, a proposal will be finalised for Ashok Nagar too,” a corporation official said.
 
 (*Name changed on request)
 
 
