NEW DELHI: Media mogul and News Corp chairman   has hit out at   saying the social media giant should pay news publishers a “carriage fee” similar to the model adopted by cable networks to “recognize” them as trusted publishers. 

 Murdoch’s comments come on the back of Facebook founder   announcing changes to the site's news feed, which would start to prioritize posts from friends and family over news from publishers. Facebook will push up “trustworthy” publishers, determined by user feedback as it faces severe backlash against its algorithm-determining news feeds. 
 
 Facebook has been combating charges of not being able to filter out fake news and misinformation, which individuals and groups are using to propagate through social media platform. “The publishers are obviously enhancing the value and integrity of Facebook through their news and content but are not being adequately rewarded for those services,” Murdoch, who plans to sell part of his 21st Century Fox to the Walt DisneyCompany, said in a statement released on Monday. 
 
 Technology giants like   and Facebook occupy a disproportionate share of the digital advertising market, amounting to 80-85%, a recent report by Dentsu Aegis said. Henry Blodget, CEO of Business Insider, told news website Axios, “ The way (social media platforms) interact together I would suggest is the same way that cable TV companies and cable programmers interacted. You had to build cable connections first, then you had to add the content on top of it. And ultimately, they are very symbiotic.” 
 
 Similar views were put across by Ben Lerer, CEO of Group Nine Media, who told Axios, “The mechanism of having premium publishers participate in more meaningful way is absolutely coming. Inevitably, it will be in Facebook’s best interest to support great content because it’s a requirement for any kind of ad product they need to build around premium video.” 
 
 At the time of writing the article, Facebook had not responded to TOI’s query on Murdoch’s statement. These tech majors have seen their businesses in India gain considerably as reflected in their financials on the back of mainly advertising services. 
 
  posted a turnover of Rs 7,209 crore in 2016-17, a 22% jump from the previous year. In the same year, Facebook posted a 93% increase in its India turnover to Rs 341 crore as net profit rose nearly 31% to Rs 40.6 crore from Rs 31 crore.
 
