MYSURU: Days after The Times of India published a story about the sorry state of  , a kalyani near  , where debris was being dumped indiscriminately, Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) took cognisance of the issue and has cleaned the space near the pond TOI had carried a story about the pond on May 15.

 Although it is close to the iconic Kukkarahalli Lake, Durgayya Kola is a historic place in its own right. It was a spot once frequented by  , and many eminent personalities of the Kannada film industry. With plans to revive the kalyani on the anvil, citizens of the ‘Heritage City’ have a reason to cheer. There is also a proposal to hand over management of the kola to either the University of Mysore (UoM) or the Government Ayurveda University, once records of the kalyani have been thoroughly verified. 
 
 MCC commissioner KH Jagadeesh told TOI that he would personally supervise the revival of the kalyani. “We cleared the debris near the kola once the problem was brought to our attention. Now, I will personally visit the kalyani and see how it can be restored to its original glory,” Jagadeesh added.
 
 Queried about the future course of action, the MCC commissioner said, “Records pertaining to the ownership of the kalyani will be verified. I heard that the kalyani comes under the purview of either UoM or the Government Ayurveda University. MCC will verify these documents, and decide whom to hand the kalyani over to.”
 
 UoM professor NS Rangaraju of the department of ancient history and archaeology lauded the MCC’s efforts to revive the kalyani. “I am thankful to the MCC, and the civic body’s commissioner for taking timely action. People have expressed their appreciation after MCC cleared the debris near the kola,” Rangaraju said.
 
 The UoM professor suggested that water from the varsity’s swimming pool could be drained into the kalyani to ensure it never went dry. “The kalyani also has feeder canals, and it collects water drained at Kukkarahalli Lake. So, MCC must clear these feeder channels so that water is collected in the kalyani,” Rangaraju added.
 
 He further suggested transforming the kola into a tourist spot. “If aquatic animals such as fish and tortoise are introduced to the kalyani, there will be some ecological balance. A walking path must be created and lights must be installed. Also, green cover around the kola must be increased by planting saplings so that it turns into an attraction among tourists and locals alike. If the kalyani is handed over to UoM, one can rest assured that it will be well maintained,” Rangaraju said.
 
 
