NEW DELHI: Chief minister Arvind   on Thursday conducted a   of the Guru Tegh Bahadur (GTB) hospital in northeast Delhi to take stock of its facilities.

 The CM, officials said, was appalled to note that there were long   at the hospital for free medicines. “He has ordered vacant posts of pharmacists to be filled within 10 days so that the waiting time at the pharmacy counters is not more than 15 minutes. He also directed the chief secretary to open more pharmacy counters in the hospital,” said an official.
 
 
  
 
 Kejriwal also tweeted about the visit. “Made a surprise visit of GTB hospital wid Health Min, CS n Health Secy.   queues at pharmacy. Need to increase no of counters n pharmacists,” he wrote. 
 
 
  
 
 Many patients complained to the CM about shortage of ultrasound machines. Some of them also complained that doctors were giving long dates for surgeries and operations, in some cases after three months.
 
 
  
 
  
 The CM directed the health minister and chief secretary to organise training for doctors to create awareness about the scheme wherein if a patient is given an operation date after more than one month, he will be referred to a private hospital immediately and all expenses will be borne by the Delhi government.
 
 In the last three years, state health department officials said healthcare in government hospitals has improved leaps and bounds, so much so that people from neighbouring states are queuing up in these hospitals for quality healthcare.
 
 The CM tweeted that nearly 70% of the patients at GTB were from outside Delhi. “A plan for handling such pressures is also in the pipeline,” officials said.
 
 
  
 
 Kejriwal visited the pharmacy, emergency ward, general ward, paediatrics ward and ultrasound department of the hospital and met the attendants and patients.
 
 The CM also reviewed the functioning of the state-run hospitals in a separate meeting with the health minister, department officials and the MLAs of respective areas, where he expressed unhappiness over non-display/improper display of helpline number 1031 on hospital premises. This is the helpline number on which patients and their attendants can register their complaints/grievances about Delhi government hospitals.
 
 The CM stated that for further improvement in government hospitals it is important to give more powers to the hospitals.
 
 
