It’s never easy essaying a negative role on screen. Especially if it’s one in a TV series, as people get to see the character in a bad light almost on a daily basis, and often tend to vent out their angst on the actor playing the character. But that hasn’t fazed actress   one bit. She plays the stepmother in Mouna Ragam, and as if the stereotyping of the character in people’s minds wasn’t enough, she plays an evil one to boot! Here she is, telling us how she manages the hate mails, her dream role, and why she finds working for the small screen more comfortable as compared to working in movies…

 
 
 I didn’t have an idea that I would do so many films and then graduate to TV, nothing like that. I got an offer, and then I was mulling over it, when my sister — who is also an actress, asked me to give television a try. You will feel more comfortable in that setup, she told me. I still hesitated — I didn’t want to do serials when there were movie offers coming in, but she said just do one serial, as a trial. I did, and found it so much what I wanted, that I stayed on. 
 
  
 
 
 
 Yes, but I started doing TV serials in 2009. Back then, shooting for movies used to be hectic. And beginning-la, movie line-la irundhu serials-ku varumpodhu, it was a very comfortable and secure feeling for me. It was like there was continuous work, and it went at a certain pace. I also started feeling more respected, and therefore continued working with the small screen. It is only now that making TV serials has become a hurried job — it’s paced fast, the schedules are harsher... But back then, it was challenging for an actor to emote and get the audience’s attention. Now, anybody can come and act — it’s become like that. Back then, nobody, not the channel, nor the makers were ready to compromise on quality. That is the biggest difference between then and now when it comes to   serials — the quality of work has come down. Today, one can literally count on one’s fingers — very few serials can withstand the pressure of TRPs — adhu irundhalum quality compromise aagama paathukara serials ellam romba kammi.
 
 
 
 I think Thai Selvam (director, Mouna Ragam, which airs on Vijay TV) sir is a perfect fit here. He is a good technician, knows what to do to keep the audiences interested, and I myself have found that from day one, he was very adamant about not compromising on anything to do with the serial for the sake of commerce. And so, I am sure you will find that the serial has maintained the same quality then and now.
 
 
 
 See, to be frank, there aren’t many options out there. Sometimes, when you listen to what the makers say, andha character nalla varum nu thonum — being in the industry for so long, I know, no matter what they say, that serials-la ivalo dhaan exaggerate panna mudiyum-nu. Some come to me and make up big stories — and then I know not to take those up. Sometimes, the characters fluctuate, oscillate between other characters, etc. So you need to look between all these gaps and spot that one trait in the character that will help you grow, were you to grasp it. I found my character in Mouna Ragam to be so — it is a moving-ahead kind of character, and it will lead to somehere.
 
 
 
 It does, all the time. I think in Pugantha Veedu, it didn’t, and it hasn’t so far in Mouna Ragam. But most often, the story goes off on a tangent, and you’re hanging in there, wondering what you’re doing in it, or how are you going to take it forward. However, I am not a loud person, so I don’t demand that my character be modified this way or that, or do this, do that… I express my displeasure with a laugh,and leave it at that.Most often, despite your objections, the makers will have an explanation for doing what they are doing, and that will most often be backed by figures and researches, so…
 
 
 
 Yes. She is shown as being mean to her step-daughter.
 
 
 
 Well, initially, there were hate mails, people complaining about why I am like this, and all. Audience neraya thittuvanga, and I would be a little wary. But over time, they started noting my performance, and took over to commenting on that. So now, all the audience feedback is more about my performance and looks. Also, I am happy playing a negative character, because I have found name and fame playing one. Had I been the usual glycerine addict, I wouldn’t have found this fame. Now, I know that the public talks positive about my character, and this character has given me an identity in the industry, so, I am glad I took up this role.
 
 
 
 Some characters really touch a chord with the audiences. When such a character is replaced, it is difficult to get the audience to accept the new face essaying that particular character. But these days, everyone accepts and moves on, I guess. The viewers also know that they have no choice, and they continue to watch the serials… However, not all replacements are bad. There have also been instances of the actor who came as a replacement doing such an exemplary job that the original actor was soon forgotten. So, in this case, the real judge is the audience.
 
 
 
 See, naama naamala irundha, the value is different. So, a good original always scores best. When we try to copy another serial, the output goes down. Having said that, serials like this one, have totally revamped the entire sensibility and setting to a local one, for a better connect with the audience. So, while the plot is the same, the treatment is very different. So, that way, if we hyper-localise it, it works. Many people ask why don’t they make Tamils serials like they used to earlier. The reason is right in front of our eyes — adaptation. Namma culture, namma food, if we keep everything intact, people will connect very well.
 
 
 
 Some differences are very obvious. There are more people now, for starters. So many actors… but then, so many things have also not changed. Artistes pay is one such. The treatment of men and women is different, too. Fresh faces, and those from other states are also treated differently… Earlier, there wasn’t so much exchange between industries, so these differences weren’t obvious. But then, mostly, things work on a more professional basis, and that’s a huge relief.
 
 
 
 I surf music channels — I am literally attached to my bluetooth all the time, listening to music. I love cooking. I keep doing something. I don’t like to sit idle. I rarely watch television — even my own serial. If someone comments on some scene I have acted in, I might revisit those to see what they meant, but not otherwise. I am not a movie buff either. The last movie I loved was Dear Zindagi. Hindi pesamaaten, but nalla puriyum. I also saw Suriya’s Thaanaa Serndha Kootam.
 
 
 
 Not really. We’d decided not to take professional arguments to the dining table a long time ago. But spot la nadakara vishayamgal sometimes manasu kashta padarama maari irukkum – those things I discuss with him at home, ask his advice or views. But not otherwise.
 
 
 
 It was upon his advice that I should take up a negative character if I want to stand out, that I took up Kadhambari’s role. However, if you ask me my dream role, I want to do an innocent village girl, a playful, chirpy, thuru-thuru nu irukara ponnu.
 
 
 
 Radhikaa madam, then, I love Devi Priya — avanga endha role panninalum nalla pannuvanga. Heroes-la Sanjeev…
 
 
 
 See,for a female character,be it any character, dressing up is of utmost importance. They notice everything from your jimikki to chain; in fact, it is only after that they notice the performance.
 
 
 
 I do my own shopping, and what Kadhambari wears is all my own styline. I shop for my own things — I love browsing about in Pondy Bazaar. I don’t look at big or small shops — if I find something interesting, I just buy it. 
 
