MUMBAI:   or transfer officers from   who were involved in the forcible dispossession of an over 16-acre plot near   before commencing an “independent and impartial” inquiry, the   directed Mumbai police commissioner.

 The police chief has agreed to conduct an inquiry into the matter by a joint commissioner of police.
 
 “The orders of suspending/transferring the police officers who are prime facie found to be involved in the act shall be issued within 48 hours,’’ said a bench of Justices Bhushan Gavai and Burgess Colabawalla in their January 17 order.
 
 The high court passed its direction on a petition by   and its directors Jude and Dominic Romell alleging high-handedness by assistant commissioner of police (Dahisar division) Prashant Marde, Dahisar (E) senior inspector Subhash Sawant, assistant police inspector Anand Jadhav and sub-inspector Kakasaheb Shinde.
 
 
  
  
 
 According to the petition, in 2016, Romell Housing bought the 16.77 acres property for Rs 60 crore from the owners—two private firms—and also paid over Rs 1 crore to Kamruddin Shaikh, who was in possession of the open land. After all property formalities were completed, Romell Housing installed three portable cabins on the property and secured it with barricades. On January 23, 2017, Shaikh passed away.
 
 On April 22, 2017, on a complaint by Shaikh’s son Salim, Dahisar police detained Jude and charged him with theft, dacoity and trespass. The next day, policemen used JCBs to remove the cabins, razed the barricades and gave possession of the land to Salim. They also handed over a 452 sq m garage property to Salim, which was never in his father’s possession, claimed Romell Housing.
 
 Romell Housing’s advocates, Ravi Kadam and Girish Godbole, argued in court that police had no role to play in what was a “pure civil dispute” and ought to have asked the complainants to approach the civil court instead. They said police had wrongly exercised the power of seizure conferred on it under law. Salim’s lawyer counter-argued that Romell Housing had encroached upon the land which was in his family’s possession since 1965.
 
 The judges took note of PSI Shinde’s affidavit in which he has not disputed that he had aided the respondents (Salim and sons) to get back the land. Shinde had added that since Romell Housing “had encroached upon the land and to see to it that ‘might is right’ is prevented, he was required to take such action”. It was also contended by Shinde and ACP Marde that “this was done by them to prevent a law and order situation”.
 
 The bench said if the police officers felt that the dispute could have caused a breach of peace, they should have approached the metropolitan magistrate who could have decided on the issue. If the magistrate had held that Salim was entitled to the land, only then the police officers would have been justified in assisting him to regain possession, the court said.
 
 The judges said since this procedure was not followed, Shinde “has taken law in his hands” and assisted Salim to get possession of the land.
 
 To the court’s query if the police commissioner will appoint an officer of the rank of joint commissioner of police to conduct the probe and transfer Shinde to a non-executive post, the prosecutor replied in the affirmative. The bench directed that all parties “shall maintain status quo with respect to the property’’ and no construction activity shall be carried out until further orders.
 
 
