CHENNAI: A Revin Raja is a second-generation candle maker in Tirunelveli, following in the footsteps of his father Arul Raja who had been in the trade for three decades before the turn of the millennium.

 What   in Arul Raja’s time did not face, and what has put a big question mark over the survival of manufacturers like Revin today, is the proliferation of China-made candles in the market. With the Union budget announcing a   on imported candles up to 25% from the existing 10%, local manufacturers have been offered a chance to match up to the cross-border onslaught.
 
 While making the announcement, finance minister Arun Jaitley noted that the duty hike had "substantial potential for domestic value addition".
 
 The move has been welcomed by candle makers in neighbouring states too. P J Jose, secretary, Kerala state candle manufacturers’ association, said the proposal offered much needed breathing space for local players. "(The announcement) will give a fillip to the domestic candle industry. It is the need of the hour for small time entrepreneurs like us who have been struggling to produce profit due to mass influx of cheap China made candles," said Jose, co-proprietor of Popular Candles in Edapally, Ernakulam district.
 
 Chinese candle manufacturing costs are remarkably low due to availability of cheap paraffin wax and even cheaper labour. 
 
 For the industry in Tamil Nadu, supply of paraffin wax is via the Indian Oil Corporation Limited-operated CPCL plant in Manali or the Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited-owned Numaligarh Refinery Limited (NRL) in Assam.
 
 "Paraffin wax from CPCL costs us Rs 88 per kg. Compared to China where the raw material is available for less than 40 per kg. But CPCL paraffin wax is high quality," said Revin Raja, who runs Annai Candle Industry in Vallioor, Tirunelveli.
 
 It is this massive difference in production cost that local candle makers hope will be cut by the customs duty hike. Though paraffin wax is not the only type used to make candles there are others like foam wax and soya wax manufacturers say there was a general lull in demand from customers for locally produced candles. One reason is that, unlike the US and other Western nations, candles are not among the top fast moving consumer goods (FMCG) in India.
 
 "If you shop at a supermarket in Chennai, chances are that you would not find a Tamil Nadu-made candle. Customers usually buy birthday candles and regulation size common use candles. These are segments where there is an abundance of Chinese variants," said M Jegan Jose, proprietor of Sahayamatha Candle Manufacturing Unit, based out of Maduthuvilai in Nagercoil, Kanyakumari district.
 
 Though Jegan is hopeful, he is not fully convinced the customs duty hike will have the desired effect. "Maybe, in north India, where the concentration of small candle manufacturing units is less, candle makers may benefit," he said.
 
 
