Recently, a group of 10 women from different countries — India, UAE, Russia, Australia, Sweden, Belarus and UK — who had never met before, embarked on a soul-searching journey where they climbed their dream peak,   in Africa. What’s interesting is that the adventure was initiated by two women from Mumbai —  , a graphic designer and blogger, and  , an IT consultant.

  Talking to BT about the expedition, Radhika shares, “Jyoti and I are adventure lovers and scaling Mount Kilimanjaro has always been a dream. I met Elena Wilson (another traveller) on a trip to Rishikesh and mentioned my plans to her. She also showed interest and we decided to go on this adventure together. Eventually, we contacted other interested women from different nationalities and ages, and that’s how we formed the group, ‘Kili sisters’.” Radhika reached the summit before others and fondly describes those 16 minutes of her life as ‘the best experience ever’. After completing the trek, she thought it was imperative to hoist two flags — the tricolour and the flag of her school that inculcated self-confidence in her. 
 
  Ask the youngest member of the group, Anna Zimnenko of Sweden, about her biggest takeaway from this trip and she sums it up in two words — spiritual awakening! “It was a remarkably spiritual trip for all of us, coming from different parts of the world, with different cultures, traditions and reasons to climb. Although we didn’t know each other well before, we became a team with one goal in mind. Together, we built an atmosphere of trust. We helped each other and would be laughing and joking all the time. We conquered Kili and it changed our lives for the better,”she reminisces.
 
  Other than their collective love for trekking, these adventure junkies also had a purpose in mind — helping the children of Africa. They collected clothes from their respective hometowns and distributed them during the expedition. They also raised money on the journey, which was given to children in need, along with food, water (which is scarce) and mountaineering equipment that they had used on their way up.
 
  For Elena Wilson of Australia, this trip, which she describes as a pilgrimage, happened by chance. “Before embarking on this trip, my friends and I were talking about what each of us would like to achieve in the near future and out of blue, I said, ‘I want to climb Kilimanjaro.’ I don’t think anyone took it seriously then. Not long after that, we went rafting on the Ganges and Kilimanjaro once again become a topic of conversation. Almost a year later, I was asked if I am interested doing Kili by another friend of mine, Tatiana Vasil’eva. I did my research and realised that if we have a bigger group, we can organise a private trip; we can select the time and get a better deal too,” shares Elena. Suzzana Nour (UK), who is not a regular in the trekking circuit, seconds Elena. She, too, likes to call the experience a pilgrimage and ‘an invitation from the universe’.
 
  Other than the importance of friendship and teamwork, this trip also taught the women to be selfless. Russian mountaineer Tatiana Vasil’eva shares a touching anecdote, “I met a boy in Africa, who had carried a small water bottle on the trek. On the summit day, when the temperature dropped, our water bottles froze. We had only one bottle and there were four of us. This boy gave us his bottle. I was touched by his gesture and the people of Africa. I am glad that I could do my bit for them.” The mountaineering gang of girls called their trip ‘trekking with a purpose’ in order to honour those in need of basic amenities in Africa.
 
  When asked about their next plan of action, Jyoti replies, “The ‘Kili sisters’ will undertake an adventure every year. A 120 km-walk in the desert of Abu Dhabi is next on the cards.”
 
 
 
 
  From February 14 to February 21
 
  
 
 
  Kilimanjaro National Park, Londorosi Gate
 
  
 
 
  Uhuru Peak, also called The Roof of Africa. Uhuru means Freedom Mountain
 
 
 
 
 
  
