NEW DELHI: As Delhi continues to battle the  , chief minister Arvind   on Tuesday requested Prime Minister Narendra   to   to   the current   that has led to a   of   for Delhi.

 “This is to bring to your notice that the thermal generating stations in Delhi — Badarpur, Dadri I and II and Jhajjar — are facing acute coal shortage since last many days and at present all of them are operating on day-ahead basis coal stock not sufficient for even one-day full generation,” the CM wrote, adding that as per norms, the stock is likely to last at least 15 days. “The peak demand has already crossed 6,200MW and is expected to touch 7,000MW shortly,” said Kejriwal. 
 
 Because of unavailability of transportation rakes with Indian Railways, the available coal can’t be transported to the NCR thermal stations, the letter stated. Claiming that the coal stock position is alarming, Kejriwal has requested the PM to “give necessary directions to the railways for providing rakes/wagons on priority for transportation of coal in order to avoid loadshedding or any major grid incidence, leading to major blackouts in Delhi”.
 
 With the heatwaves forcing people to run airconditioners round the clock, the power demand in the city has jumped by over 16% between May 20 and 28. The Delhi government last week issued warnings over the power shortage due to the national coal crisis. Delhi gets about 2,235MW from coal-based power stations, which has come down to 1,355MW. At a time when the peak summer demand is expected to touch 7,000MW, the government is worried that the reduced supply could lead to blackouts. 
 
 NTPC officials said there was a slight improvement in the past 24 hours as rakes had started coming and the generation was slowly picking up. However, a government official said, “The situation may be slightly better than Monday but if you look at the normal coal reserve for 15 days, a 24-hour reserve is still critical. At such a stage of high power demand, we cannot risk any possibility of low power generation.” 
 
 Delhi’s power demand is likely to cross all previous records this summer. “The peak power demand has already crossed the 6,000MW-mark eight times. Last year, the demand had crossed the mark only twice (6,021MW on May 16 and 6,001 on May 26),” said an industry expert, analysing Delhi’s powerconsumption. 
 
 
