Ferozepur: Hundreds of teachers staged a dharna outside the office of the deputy commissioner (DC) here to protest against non-payment of wages that resulted in the alleged suicide of an education provider as well as registration of a police case against their colleagues at Bajidpur village in Ferozepur district, on Friday.

 Chanan Singh, an education provider posted at Changali Qadim village in Ferozepur, had committed suicide on Thursday by jumping into Gang canal. He was reportedly under stress for not getting wages from for the last four months.
 
 While condemning the government for not releasing salaries of the education providers, the agitating teachers said the body of the deceased would not be cremated till the state announced a financial compensation of Rs 20 lakh to his kin and a government job to his wife.
 
 Addressing the protesters, Sukhjinder Singh Khanpuria, leader of Shikhya Bachao Manch, said the Congress government in the state had failed to fulfill all the promises made at the time of election. “Recently, six teachers of the government school in Bajidpur were booked by name, and another 50 unidentified teachers have been booked by the police for protesting against the Punjab director public instructions (elementary education) during his visit to the school,” Sukhjinder said, adding that the government resorted to suppressing their demands by falsely implicating them.
 
 According to information, a case has been registered against Daljit Kaur, Anuradha, Ranju Bala, Mamta Sharma, Neelam Bala and Vijay Lakshmi, besides 50 unidentified people and teachers at the Kulgarhi police station. In his complaint to the police, DPI (elementary education) Inderjit Singh had alleged the agitating teachers misbehaved with him during his visit to the school to take stock of the implementation of ‘Parho Punjab, Parhao Punjab’ project of the education department.
 
 On objecting to the entries being left blank in the attendance register, Daljit, head teacher of the school, reportedly failed to give a satisfactory answer, he alleged.
 
 When the team enquired about ‘Parho Punjab, Parhao Punjab,’ the head teacher replied that the teachers of their school had boycotted the project. “When the team was leaving the school premises after marking its objections in the visitors’ book, the teachers present there started arguing with the inspection team. Some of them were also manhandled,” the DPI alleged.
 
 Meanwhile, the teachers alleged that Inderjit had used foul language with women teachers. “If the case registered against the teachers is not cancelled and the compensation and job to the kin of Chanan is not announced, we will be forced to launch a state-wide stir,” said the union leaders.
 
 Meanwhile, Ferozepur DC Ramvir on Friday announced that the state government had sanctioned a compensation of Rs 5 lakh to Chanan’s kin.
 
 
