With barely a month left before most colleges draw to a close senior-most classes are now undeniably faced with the prospect of their collegiate lives coming to an end. All those days of independence, excitement, new opportunities and freedom stand to be replaced by the demands of adulthood and the real world outside campus walls. In such a scenario, it is obvious that these would-be graduates look for special ways to liven up their last weeks in college and create memories that will last for a lifetime. If you’re curious, here’s some of the things you’re sure to notice going on now among graduating classes in colleges across the city:

 
 
 
 As one passes through college, innumerable scenarios and opportunities arise wherein interaction with people outside of one’s class becomes unavoidable, leading to strong bonds and lasting friendships. The most commonly noticed bond of this kind is between senior and junior classes, and as the seniors edge closer to their graduation, the fervour to cement this bond increases. Most colleges, thereby, witness junior classes making special purchases for their seniors, sometimes going so far as to personalize their ‘mementos’ for each individual recipient, tying specific memories to their gifts.
 
 
 
 In a bid to spend some quality time with each other and create solid experiences to reminisce about for years, several graduating classes and teams with senior members take mini-vacations and go on trips. Allowing for them to visit new places together, face challenges and devote a good amount of time to one another, these class/team trips are a sure-fire ways to stir things up in the last few days and forge unbreakable connections. 
 
 
 
 Considering that the graduating students most often take pride in their collective membership in a particular class or team, a commonly noticed practice is for them to get jackets and hoodies that proudly show off these associations. Not only do they serve to increase the pride of belonging to a group, but they also serve as stolid souvenirs to keep for years to come. Outdoing each other in terms of style, colours and design, senior students purchasing class/team jackets is a custom noticed in nearly every college across the city.
 
 
 
 Particularly observed as social-media updates, the senior batches are very aware of the exact number of days they have left in college and these milestones are distinctly recorded through ‘stories’, hashtags like ‘#throwback’ and other features on networking sites. Some colleges’ graduating batches go the extra mile and set specific events on specific landmark dates of their countdowns, marking their deadlines (such as ‘30 days left!’) with planned occasions like class dinners, team nights out, or even something as simple as coordinated outfits. 
 
 
 The most frequently-practiced ritual dedicated to the outgoing batches is that of farewell parties being thrown by juniors. A custom that’s been exercised for decades now, these farewell parties are gradually increasing in magnitude and pomp over the years, although their exact mechanics change from institution to institution. A brilliant occasion to commemorate the memories made over the years spent at college, these parties most often include team games, dance floors, excellent food, and planned activities like open mics or standup comedy wherein the almost-graduates face the brunt of the jokes. Farewell parties are also used a good places to remember the individual traits of the seniors and acknowledge their importance in the group, through ‘award ceremonies’ and other such events.
 
 
 Unsurprisingly, the conclusive weeks on campus are marked by frenzied attempts at establishing fixed connections and avoiding the possibility of losing contact with each other. Much like what is shown in nearly every Bollywood movie that tells the story of college-goers, this is often done by frantically filling in scrapbooks and journals, spilling secrets and revealing truths that had been kept under covers for ages. Another customary tradition is observed on the very last day of college, when students — amid tears and goodbyes — write on each others’ clothing their comments, quotes and favourite memories of everybody, making it a truly bittersweet moment.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
