KOLKATA: The   (KP) is launching a round-the-year football coaching programme for underprivileged street girls, aged between 10-16 years, as part of its initiative to empower them and prevent menaces like child marriage, school dropout, violence and trafficking from ruining their lives.

 The first-of-its-kind project, christened ‘Damini’, will kick off on Saturday at Park Circus Maidan.
 
 
 Sujay Chanda, KP joint commissioner (establishment), told TOI: “Initially, we will send 50 girls each to four training grounds across the city. Along with football, the young guns will also receive trainings in personality development and confidence-building.”
  
  
 
 The city police body, in association with US-based Shreeja Foundation, will select 200 girls from its ongoing social outreach programme for kids on the streets, Nabadisha, encompassing all 42 police stations in greater Kolkata. At present, there are around 2,500 underprivileged kids attached to Nabadisha, managed by KP and other NGOs.
 
 “Following medical check-ups and parental consent, we’ll engage them in a strict football regimen till they turn 16. We’ll add new entrants as some girls would leave the camp once they cross the upper age limit,” added Chanda.
 
 Besides Park Circus, the other training grounds will be in north, south and the port areas of the city, Chanda said.
 
 “Arranging dressing rooms and toilets for them is a challenge. We have appointed   to implement its ‘Shreeja Football for Development’ model, which has been successfully running a similar programme for tribal girls at Rajnagar block, 40km off Birbhum’s Suri,” he added.
 
 Shreeja India’s founder and executive director, Shib Shankar  , told TOI from New York, “Street kids, especially girls, are vulnerable to human trafficking, early marriage and other forms of exploitation. Our football programme near Suri has probably caught the fancy of the Kolkata Police.”
 
 Dasgupta (57), a chemical engineering graduate of  , has taken a break from his business in the US to “do something for Bengal”.
 
 According to Dasgupta, while KP will provide shoes, footballs and other sports gears, Shreeja India will generate funds for after-practice refreshments, appoint coaches-mentors-field attendants and pay their salaries.
 
 The practice session will be held in the mornings, thrice a week. “Each session will last for two hours as the kids will have to attend schools. There will be no residential facilities,” said Chanda.
 
 Regarding the project’s future, Dasgupta said, “Identifying individual skills of these girls is crucial. The plan is to train the girls through sports, education and other vocational courses so that they can lead a dignified life.”
 
