SECUNDERABAD: It couldn’t have come at a better time for over 1.5 lakh commuters. From Monday night, commuters could easily pass through some of the civilian roads in   which till now were closed by the local military authority ( ) in the night.

 Armed soldiers did not insist on ID proofs of commuters passing through   (Mahendra Hills) and heading towards Safilguda and adjoining areas on Monday night. Highly-placed sources told TOI that a radio message received from the ministry of defence (MoD) to keep the roads open had led to the latest move by the local military authorities.
 
  
 Though orders regarding lift of ban on traffic restrictions on civilian roads have not yet been received by the Secunderabad Cantonment Board or defence estates office, LMA received a radio communication from MoD, the sources added.
 
 Highly-placed sources confirmed that the report sent to MoD had clearly mentioned that civilian roads which were closed by LMA did not follow section 258 of the Cantonments Act-2006.
 
 LMA had decided to enforce ban on internal roads around AOC Centre, Secunderabad, that include Entrenchment Road,   and Ordnance Road from 2014 and accordingly, imposed restrictions between 10 pm and 7.15 am on movement of commuters. LMA has plans to close the Gough Road from May 31this year and deferred on the decision five times following   government’s intervention.
 
 At a meeting held with vice-presidents of 62 Cantonment Boards on May 4 in Delhi, the closure of civilian roads in military limits was raised and discussed threadbare. Defence minister Nirmala Sitharaman, who attended the meeting, heard them closely. The vicepresidents sought her intervention to keep the closed civilian roads open.
 
 Responding to their requests, MoD sought a detailed report on closure of civilian roads in Cantonments from chief executive officers of Cantonments concerned and defence estates officers (DEOs) of respective areas. Accordingly, in-charge SCB CEO and DEO   submitted a report to MoD.
 
 
