BHOPAL: In a bizarre decision, the   (MPBOU) announced to discontinue 17 important courses in the middle of the session citing poor admission, stoking anger among students. Students, who took admission in 2017-18 in the courses, took a strong exception to the decision, saying the unwarranted and mindless action would waste their one entire year.

 
  
 
 Surprisingly, important courses like MBA, MSc and BCA were among the 17 to get the chop. The university uploaded a notice on its official portal mentioning the courses discontinued. Going by a circular, courses were discontinued where the strength is 10 or below.
 
 “Students will get back their fee through   in their bank account. Students have been directed to provide a copy of the front page of the bank pass book to the university so that process of depositing the amount could be done,” said registrar Sarita Chauhan.
 
 Sources said the courses are discontinued for next three years. “If the university finds, more students are willing to take admission, these courses can be continued again,” said a senior official of the university.
 
 Students, however, refuse to buy authorities’ action. “Why the university gave admission when it knew the strength was poor? Besides, who will be responsible for wastage of one year? I will not let them spoil my career like this. I will seek legal remedy,” said a student, without quoting his name. Another student echoed similar views. He said such steps would set a wrong trend. “Students will not take admission in the university after the bad experience. This is not good for the university,” said another student.
 
 Another student questioned the timing. “It would have been better for us had the courses were discontinued when the admission process was on. We could have taken admission in other university,” said another student.
 
 In the VIIIth year plan, the   (CABE), Government of India took an important decision that every state should set up a open university to promote distance education,. On this basis, Madhya Pradesh Bhoj (Open) University (MPBOU) was established under an Act of   in 1991.
 
