The New Year couldn’t have started on a better note for  , who is back after a short break. The seasoned actress has replaced Pyumori Mehta to play the new Kareena Luthra on the show, 'Kundali Bhagya'. She says, “Pyumori had to quit the show because of her health issues. The look can be the same, but I won’t ape anyone as I have my own style.”
However, bouncing back wasn’t that easy for Usha, who had put on weight during her last outing, 'Ek Tha Raja Ek Thi Rani', because of health problems. Her tall frame made things worse as she looked even more heavy. She says, “I realised that at my age, I needed to be fit and lose extra kilos in a healthy way. A good body makes you more confident and positive. I have always played sophisticated and multi-millionaire characters on my shows and my weight-gain didn’t go with the character. To make matters worse, I am tall and broad and the extra weight made me look like   in front of my co-actors. Besides, I would feel lethargic all the time. After   wrapped up, I decided to lose those extra kilos; I shed 16 kilos in four months. I look and feel healthy now.”
 Usha, who returned to action after working on herself, is enjoying the negative turn on her shows. “I love playing negative characters. There is so much to do and the character has a lot of variations. Anyway, what does a positive mother do apart from crying and pleading on TV?” she asks.
 Interestingly, much before the TV audience got hooked on the naagins and vampires, Usha explored the genre 19 years ago with  , featuring   in the title role. And the actress minces no words while stating that her show was better than the recent ones. “My 'Nagin' was better than the new 'Naagin'. We didn’t have advanced graphics and equipment; the direction was excellent and the show featured all the biggies of our time. It was a huge hit. The new show may look very rich because of the set, but ours boasted of better content as we weren’t in a rush to shoot in order to meet the telecast deadlines. I don’t relate to most of the content that's being dished out on TV these days. If I am a mother-in-law who despises her bahu, I wouldn’t plot to burn her alive or spill oil on the stairs for her to fall, as is seen on most shows. I would just stop talking to her. Initially, I would swear out of frustration about my track taking a bizarre turn, but now, I have 
 stopped bothering. I will do anything on a show.”
 On the personal front, the actress, who divorced her husband Mahesh Anand around 15 years ago, isn’t planning to take the plunge again. Refusing to delve into her past, Usha says, “One marriage in a lifetime is enough. One seeks companionship, but I am content and happy being single. It’s not easy to find true love. Also, nobody dies after separating from your partner. What will a husband do for me that I can’t do for myself?”
 
 
