CHANDIGARH: If you walk around Chandigarh these days, you would see a pile of dead leaves on the sides of the roads. In some areas, the asphalt road is covered with  , in some areas, the leaves cover the storm drains. This is not new. Trees shed their leaves during this season. But it seems the Chandigarh municipal corporation ( ) did not learn any lesson from the past when it comes to disposing of dry leaves. Now, the dried leaves can be spotted on all roads and green belts.

 At a time when the MC authorities are lagging behind in making proper arrangements to clear the dry leaves, the resident welfare associations (RWAs) have already started working on their own to clean the mess.
 
 Dr O P Verma, president, RWA, Sector 20, said, “At present, there are three parks where the association is making compost from the dry leaves. The residents are not only getting rid of the dry leaves in the parks but the association is also asking the market associations to dispose of the waste in these pits, which have been dug in these parks.” Verma said they had decided to start working on this matter even before the season started.
 
 Hitesh Puri, vice chairman of Federation of Sectors’ Welfare Association of Chandigarh (FOSWAC), also raised the issue of dry leaves in a recent RWA meeting. He asked why the MC authorities are not chalking out a proper plan for the disposal of dry leaves before the season starts for the convenience of the public. There are so many hi-tech machines, which can be utilised to clean the mess, instead of depending on manual labour to collect the dead leaves.
 
  of citizen association, sector 21 and president of FOSWAC said, their association has bought a machine for collecting leaves, which is especially used in the parks of the area. He said they have raised the issue a number of times with the corporation to find a permanent solution to the collection of leaves in the park but no action has been taken. Therefore, they decided not to wait any longer and bought a hi-tech machine.
 
 In 2002, the then UT adviser,   had initiated a project called   and Khad Banao Kendras in Sectors including 15, 21, 26, 27, 33 and 36. Under this project, the authorities in these sectors installed infrastructure to decompose dry leaves through vermin-culture to make fertilizer and further use it in the green belts of the city.
 
 In 2010, it was suggested to construct pucca pits in each sector and collect leaves in it. This will not only solve the problem of dry leaves but would also provide quality fertilizer after five to six months to these green belts.
 
 
