PANAJI: An all-party   from Goa will meet PM Narendra  , Union ministers Narendra Singh Tomar (mines) and Nitin Gadkari (road transport) on Monday to request the Centre for an ordinance allowing   operations to continue in the state after March 15. 

 On February 7, the apex court had quashed the renewal of 88 mining leases and asked the state government to stop mining activities from March 15.
 
 An all party meeting was held at the ministerial block on Thursday to find an amicable solution to the mining issue. 
 
 In absence of chief minister Manohar  , who is also mines minister, PWD minister Ramkrishna ‘Sudin’ Dhavalikar chaired the meeting and it was attended by speaker Pramod Sawant, leader of opposition Chandrakant ‘Babu’ Kavlekar, senior Congress leader Pratapsingh Rane, South Goa MP Narendra Sawaikar, and ministers and MLAs from the mining belt. BJP treasurer Sanjiv Desai also attended the meeting, sources said.
 
 Dhavalikar told reporters that an appointment has been sought with the Prime Minister. He also said that the delegation is will brief the Union government about the losses the state will face in the event of stoppage of mining activities in the state.
 
 “We will put up out demands later,” Dhavalikar said. The state would face a loss to the tune of Rs 3,500 crore, he said and added that the ban will affect around 2 lakh people, directly or indirectly.
 
 Kavlekar said that all parties were of the consensus that mining activities should continue after March 15 as a large number of people are dependent on the industry. “Mining should not stop after March 15. This is the only request we will put forward before the Union government,” Kavlekar added.
 
 Sources said that the state government will request the Union government to bring out an ordinance to the Goa Daman and Diu Mining Concession (Abolition and Declaration as Mining Leases) Act, 1987, so that the leases can continue to operate after March 15.
 
 Sources explain that they want the government of India to amend the Act.
 
 Parrikar had said that the government will come up with a solution to the mining issue within six months. The chief minister also said that even if excavation stopped after March 15, the state would e-auction the already mined ore, which would yield enough revenue for the current mining season ending May 31.
 
 A senior officer in the mines department said that of the 20 million cap on extraction of iron ore, 9 million tonne have been extracted.
 
 
