RAJKOT: The much-needed inland container depot (ICD) for handling import-export cargo of   has got stuck in land allocation.

 The   ( ) had signed an MoU with the state government during the Vibrant Gujarat Global Investors Summit in 2015 to set up an ICD at Rajkot. However, the government seems to be dragging its feet over allocation of land. 
 
 ICD is a dry port from where the export and import can be done just like a sea port and all the custom clearance is done at ICD. Once the cargo is cleared from ICD, it goes to port through railway to be directly loaded on to a ship. At present, the cargo of entire Saurashtra is being transported through road to   port for export. According to the RCCI’s feasibility report submitted to state government, nearly 4,000 containers per month being exported from Saurashtra and 1,500 are being imported. This whole cargo movement will become easier with the establishment of ICD. 
 
 Rajkot Chamber of Commerce and Industry (RCCI) had met chief minister Vijay Rupani on January 29 and urged him to move a proposal in the cabinet meeting to allot the land near Parapiparia at concessional rate to Concor. 
 
 RCCI has recommended a piece of land in Parapiparia village near   stadium on   road for setting up the ICD. The location was chosen as it is convenient for industries of Rajkot, Morbi and Jamnagar besides it being a government waste land. 
 
 RCCI vice-president   told TOI, “It is not feasible for Concor to buy the land at the price fixed by the collector’s office and in the interest of trade we made representation to chief minister Vijay Rupani to give this land as concessional rate. He promised to take up this issue in the next cabinet meeting.” 
 
 The Concor team has also visited this place and are satisfied with the location.
 
 Rajkot collector Vikrant Pandey said, “The land price is decided by the district-level valuation committee according to the formula fixed by the revenue department. As the price of government land is valued more than Rs 50 lakh, it will be finalized by state-level valuation committee. It is the prerogative of the government to give concession in price but not possible at my end.” 
 
 However, there is no communication by the state government with Concor about the land allotment. 
 
 Pranai Prabhakar, chief general manager of north-western region at Concor, said, “I have written two letters to the state government in this regard but have got no reply regarding land allotment. I am ready to discuss if state government officials call me.   government allotted us land at a token rent. Private players are not ready for ICD but we are a government company and are thinking about development for the next 10 years.” 
 
 The major import and export cargo is expected from this ICD includes automobile parts, machine tools, CNC machines, sesame seeds, edible oil, groundnuts, peanuts, vitrified tiles, rubber, jewellery, brass articles, pumps and motors and fish. 
 
 “If this ICD is set up, it will make our export-import easy as for IGST refund, we have approached Gandhidham customs department. If custom officials want to open our self-sealed container, we have to go to Mundra or pay high charges to custom house agents. This problem will also be solved,” said Ganatra. 
 
 
