JAIPUR: In yet another mass killing of the national bird, 11 peafowls were found poisoned to death at Khokhar village in Nagaur district on Tuesday. Carcasses of the birds including six peahens were found scattered across a field after eating grains laced with poison.

 
 Forest official informed TOI, a 16-year-old boy, who was caught by villagers giving poisonous grain to the birds was held and case was registered against him under various sections of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972. “The minor was produced before a juvenile justice court. He was accompanied by a friend,   (18), who escaped from the spot. Search is going on to arrest the second accused,” said Sandeep Singh, forest ranger of Nagaur district.
 
 After post-mortem, the viscera report of the birds will be sent to Ajmer for forensic examination. The continuous deaths of the national bird that is listed under schedule I of the Wildlife (Protection) Act, 1972 has become a cause of worry for the forest department in the state.
 
 A week ago, 23 birds in total were found dead under mysterious circumstances in   district. Similarly, hundreds of deaths were reported in   (STR) this month.
 
 In the state, before seed sowing season, farmers generally sprinkle pesticide on which peacocks feed and then get killed. Animal activists in the state alleged that despite this high figure, the state government has failed to curb the increasing death toll of peacocks in the state. Many alleged that Rajasthan is no more a safe place for the peacocks, as daily cases of poaching are being reported from different parts of the state.
 
 Babu Lal Jaju, state coordinator, People for Animals (PFA) alleged, “Since the police and forest department do not take any action, there is no fear among poachers. Middlemen of poachers spread fear among farmers that peacocks would destroy their crops. After this, they supply pesticide which are put in food and given to birds. Later, bodies of these birds are purchased by the middlemen for meat.”
 
 Green activist also reasoned that there is constant rise in the national birds’ deaths as peacock is the only bird whose feathers can be sold. As there is no ban on collecting and selling feathers shed by the bird, poachers kill the bird and export it to different countries. Moreover, it is difficult to ascertain whether the feathers are plucked from the bird or picked after natural shedding.
 
