At a time when the nation was being incarcerated for violating women’s rights, a 20-year-old from Haryana emerged as a symbol of hope. India was languishing at 108 in the Global Gender Gap index, behind neighbours   and China, mainly due to less participation of women in the economy. That’s when   was crowned   2017, becoming the face of India, as a successful, independent young woman, on a global platform. Ever since, Manushi has shown on more than one occasion that she’s more than just a pretty face. Whether speaking about her work towards creating awareness about menstrual hygiene or jokes about her surname to her Bollywood ambitions — Manushi sounds like a seasoned veteran, with an incredible sense of clarity and panache. 
The medico-turned-model sets the record straight when it comes to beauty pageants, and says there’s a lot of misconception about pageants. “People associate pageants with glamour, where there are celebrities walking on the ramp wearing beautiful gowns, heels and make-up — but that’s just one aspect,” she says, during her visit to Hyderabad on the sidelines of the first edition of the Miss World ‘Feminine Hygiene Awareness’ global tour.
 
 Manushi believes that one can learn a lot from the people around them while taking part in a pageant and that each time she had finished it, she was a different person. “The pageant is a journey of young girls being together. I lived the journey of Miss india for one month with beautiful girls from 29 other states from across the country, and then lived another month-long journey with girls from 120 countries for Miss World. I know what I have learnt from other girls and I know the difference that it has made to my life. Pageants are more about who you are as a person and how you can present your goals and your vision,” she explains. 
 
 And while Manushi’s journey towards the Miss World crown has won her recognition, she’s keen on beginning a new journey — her ‘Beauty With A Purpose’ tour which she kicked off from Hyderabad. 
 “Education and menstrual hygiene are areas that I worked on before as well. In fact, that was my project when I went to Miss World and I was very happy that they liked it. This year, we’re kick-starting a tour with my project in my home country, and that’s a proud moment for me,” she gushes. 
 
 One of the aspects about Manushi that has earned her so much love is the way she has managed to stay level-headed, even after her remarkable success and the fame that followed. Whether it’s dealing with the limelight or jokes about her surname, she’s remained calm and measured. “I don’t know if people look at me differently (post her Miss World win), but definitely there are more people who look at me now,” she quips, with a smile, before adding, “Jokes about my surname aren’t a big deal at all. In fact, that’s what jokes are meant for — you laugh and then forget about it.”
 As someone who takes pride in her philanthropic activities, winning the Miss World crown is not a natural stepping stone to Bollywood for Manushi. That said, the 20-year-old, whose favourite actor is  , is not entirely averse to entering the glamourous film industry either. “It’s a good thing to get a break into the glamour industry. If something good comes my way, then why not?” she says, signing off.
 
 
