VARANASI: Repeated revisions in the content of the film based on the life of Lord Buddha has delayed the ambitious light and sound show at Sarnath. Pending since 2002-03, the show is now expected to begin in the Archaeological Survey of India protected zone near   by May end. 

 Talking to TOI on Wednesday, deputy director of tourism,  , said: "All basic ground work has been completed by the executing agency,   (RNN). Installation of the sound system will begin in a couple of days. Now only final approval of the content of the film based on life of Lord Buddha is awaited from the state and the Central governments. Once it is approved and handed over to Mumbai-based production house, the work on making film for sound and light show of Sarnath will begin."
 
 He added that the department has also proposed to rope in Bollywood icon   to use his voice in this film.
 
 According to tourism department records, in 2002-03 the Union ministry of tourism had sanctioned Rs 3.52 crore for a sound and light show project based on Lord Buddha at the Buddha Theme Park. Indian Tourism Development Corporation (ITDC) was assigned the project and in 2003-04, the fund for the show was sanctioned. However, the project continued to linger. In 2013, the ministry withdrew the funds from ITDC and returned it to the state government.
 
 After this, the UP Tourism department decided to shift the site of the show to Dhamekha Stupa by taking ASI's consent. On the call of the ASI, Indian Institute of Technology, Banaras Hindu University (IIT-BHU) experts conducted a study to know the affect of sound and light show on the monuments, including Dhamekha Stupa. On getting a positive report, ASI gave its nod to tourism department when it roped in RNN.
 
 With the sanctioning of budget of Rs 7.88 crores in 2016-17, the RNN started basic construction work in September 2016. The target to complete the project was given as February 2018. 
 
 Mishra said, "The RNN had completed basic works by spending Rs 4.80 crores. Remaining budget has to be spent on production of the film."
 
 He said that the content of the film had been revised twice in recent months. Need of a perfect content of the film on Lord Buddhas life is being realized because the sound and light show will be viewed by people from across the globe. It is felt that the life of Lord Buddha since childhood to his Parinirvana is presented in the proposed show perfectly. All corrective measures are being ensured before production because a major investment is being done on it and such film cant be made repeatedly.
 
 
