KOCHI: Raising concerns about accessibility of public spaces, Centre for Intangible Heritage studies honorary director B   said that lack of priority and innovation by the government has led to museums becoming inaccessible to a large section of the public, especially the disabled community. Due to this, there is loss in revenue and threat to the survival of museums is large.

 
 “Understanding your visitors is the most potent thing. Accessibility to collection or allowing the visitors to touch and feel the exhibits can be of immense help in this direction,” said Venugopal during the programme held to mark the International Museum Day on Friday. The celebration will continue for a week.
 
 He said putting signages, universal designs, braille labels where the blind can touch and feel the documents will improve the footfalls to the museums.
 
 The aim is to acknowledge and spread awareness about the significance of museums in the contemporary society.
 
 Archaeological Survey of India (ASI),   circle, also held an event comprising talks and paper presentations with the theme ‘Hyperconnected museums: new approaches, new public’, whichwasdecided asthe global theme for the day by International Council of Museums.
 
 Venugopal also emphasized on the need of hyper-connectivity for attracting more visitors, which the museums are losing out on to the purely entertainment-based alternatives like cinema and theme parks competition.
 
 “As museums can play a major role in the human rights arena as social spaces for all, their accessibility should be the first thing that must be kept in mind, if we need to improve the qualities of museums, especially for the disabled people. For instance, equipping museums with a well - built ramp could be an appropriate step in this direction,” he said.
 
 An art walk and a performance related to the history of Kerala will be conducted at the   on May 20 as part of the week-long celebration by Sahapedia. It will see multiple activities taking place in museums across the country.
 
