For the week-long World Under-24 Ultimate Championships (WU24) in the sport of  , which will be held in Perth,  , a group of athletic, talented youngsters handpicked from all over the country will be part of the Indian team competing for top honours. Hosted by the   and Australian Flying Disc Association, the tournament starts on January 7 and goes on till 13th. The team will take part in the mixed division, meaning it will comprise of 12 boys and 11 girls from various cities such as Bengaluru, Chennai, Surat, Mumbai, Delhi and  , with most of them having represented the country in earlier international tournaments. The captains of the team,   and  , both hail from Bengaluru. 

 
  
 
 Speaking about the team, Jashan says, “The 23-member team was selected five months ago, after multiple rounds of tryouts, and we’ve been training as a team since, having undergone four training camps together. This is the second time India is taking part in the U24 championships, and the seventh time in all international competitions. This is probably the strongest team we’ve fielded at the international level, thanks to the experiences and learnings from past campaigns. And considering India finished fifth out of 32 teams, the expectation to do well is high. But as we’ve been told multiple times by our coaches, our immediate focus is our first game, and after that, the next, so that’s who we’re going t approach the entire tournament.” The team was chosen by a panel of selectors from   (UPAI), the governing body of the sport in the country.
 The icing on the cake for the team is that they will be playing the opening match of the tournament, which will be live-streamed across the globe. An excited captain, Dhatri, says, “You really can’t ask for a better start to the tournament — playing the opening game of the tournament, that too against the home side in a match that will be live-streamed. Moreover, playing in Australia is great because it’s like second home to us. Indian teams have a lot of followers in that country, because the first U24 campaign in 2015 was managed and coached by   and Jessi Mumford, two influential Australian players who left a big impact on the Ultimate Frisbee scene in India. So, we’re excited and can’t wait to get started.”
 
 
  
 
 
