MYUSURU: A rebellion of sorts broke out in the   unit of Mysuru on Monday, minutes after state party chief B S   announced that his younger son B Y   won’t be the party candidate from Varuna where CM Siddarmaaiah’s son Dr Yathindra is the   candidate.

 Yeddyurappa made the announcement at a party workers’ convention in Nanjangud. As party leaders left, BJP workers ransacked the dais even as police resorted to mild lathicharge to ensure the situation didn’t go out of control. The ugly scenes later shifted to Mysuru.
 
 Angry BJP workers accused Union ministers Anantha Kumar, D V Sadananda Gowda, Anantkumar Hegde, former DyCM R Ashoka, Mysuru MP Prathap Simha and BJP organization secretary BL Santosh of conspiring to deny Vijayendra the ticket. They showed their anger by beating the leaders’ photographs with slippers.
 
 Sources told TOI that the RSS lobby coupled with the senior leaders, including many MPs, had stonewalled Vijayendra’s candidature. The workers saw in the developments a plot to sabotage Vijayendra’s chances of emerging as a Lingayat leader of reckoning.
 
 Though there were indications since Sunday that his candidature won’t be cleared, Vijayendra decided to go ahead and file his papers hoping the party leaders wouldn’t stymie his chances, they say.
 
 Sources close to Vijayendra said he had the support of his entire family. Yeddyurappa came to Nanjangud ahead of his younger son filing his nomination papers. On Sunday, B Y Raghavendra visited villages in Varuna segment and campaigned for his brother, they pointed out.
 
 The denouement at the workers’ convention was preceded by top BJP leaders, including Ballari MP B Sreeramulu and former minister V Srinivasa Prasad, extolled party workers to ensure Vijayendra’s victory. Referring to Vijayendra’s tour of the segment, Yeddyurappa said he is happy with his son gaining huge popularity in little time. “He has become one among you,” he said, looking at Vijayendra. “However, let us not restrict him to Varuna alone as he has to take care of 20 segments in the region. The party will field a grassroots activist. Work for his victory,” Yeddyurappa said, clarifying that Vijayendra won’t file his papers.
 
 It took a while for the BJP workers to figure out what was happening. Soon after Yeddyurappa left the venue at Vidyavardhaka College Grounds, the convention centre turned into a battleground. Angry activists went berserk and mobbed Vijayendra. The workers urged him not to give in and file his nomination as planned. As the situation turned volatile, police intervened and escorted Vijayendra out of the venue. They resorted to caning when workers tried to prevent Vijayendra from leaving.
 
 Vijayendra had to be escorted by police till Kadkola, about 10km from Nanjangud towards Mysuru. As Vijayendra headed to an undisclosed location, Yeddyurappa and other leaders held a meeting at a private on Bengaluru-Nilgiris Road close to Mysuru Palace.
 
 Yeddyurappa told reporters at the hotel that he decided against fielding Vijayendra as he felt it wasn’t needed at this point of time. “I felt his candidature isn’t needed now,” he said, seeking to douse the rebellion.
 
 Yeddyurappa denied that the RSS had vetoed Vijayendra’s candidate. Pointing at his elder son Raghavendra, he said: “He wanted to contest from Ranebennur in Haveri. He would have won for sure. But I advised him not to contest as he will have to take care of Shikaripur, as I will be touring the state. He agreed.”
 
 A BJP leader, who was present at the hotel, told TOI that the BJP chief was upset. “Yeddyurappa was livid. He kept to himself and was silent after returning from Nanjangud,” he said. Hundreds of party workers gathered in front of the hotel, demanding Vijayendra be given the party ticket.
 
 
