JAIPUR: Once a representative of India’s ancient Vastu Vidhya, the Jawahar Kala Kendra now adorns elements of a modern glitzy building. The centre so aesthetically crafted by world famous Indian architect Charles   (1930–2015) now seems to mock at its creator. 

 Correa swore to have never used ‘glass’ in his structures but recent ‘renovations’ by present masters of the centre have replaced its sandstone walls and corridors with glass, plastic and metal at several places. Correa’s buildings were celebrated for sensitivity towards traditional methods and materials but after his demise the same have been destroyed here, say the artists who frequent  .
 
 The place that used to be an epicenter of cultural activities in the city, now faces criticism from its stakeholders—artists, audience and visitors. Protests over arbitrary changes in the centre’s constitution, appointment of an out-stationed director and alleged high-handed administration, VIP culture at the parking space, gag order for media and a list of dos and don’ts for the artists highlight that not just its appearance but even the place’s anatomy appears to have been tampered with.
 
 Ranbir Singh, president of   (IPTA), charges the JKK administration of ruining the creation of a distinguished architect. “Some galleries have been converted into hyper-modern art rooms by closing down windows, erecting parallel walls, covering air ducts and installing glass doors. This has caused irreparable damage to Chorea’s school of design. The tempering has affected penetration of sunlight and circulation of air,” says Singh, who was in the team that crafted JKK’s constitution in 1993.
 
 The constitution was amended allegedly overnight, without following the rules. The provision of having three directors, one each from the field of literature, art and music, was axed. Matters touched a low when artists publicly protested against the appointment of director   that they alleged was made bypassing rules and regulations.
 
 The present body of governance formed in November 2014 rented out portions of the centre to generate revenue. This too invited the ire of artists and visitors. The artists are opposed to the opening of a modern café at the centre’s roof and creating a ‘dedicated entry’ for it by demolishing a portion of JKK’s wall facing Bajaj Nagar.
 
 Dismissing the allegations as misunderstandings, JKK additional director general   claims, “No tempering has been done with the centre’s original structure but renovations were carried out at places that were dilapidated. Some windows were closed while others were expanded in tune with Correa’s original work. The supporting walls have been created as required by the artists to hang their art work on the walls.”
 
 She reasons that the provision for three directors was dropped from the centre’s constitution only for faster decisions and easy governance. 
 
 On the gag order for media, Singh says that not allowing photojournalists to take pictures inside the auditorium and the amphitheater is strictly at the request of artists. “Some artists and performers have suggested that continuous movement of photographers distracts them, while others want the pictures to remain exclusive for them," says Singh.
 
 
