GURUGRAM: Around 1,300 books, mostly novels in Hindi and English, were found missing from a   in  , which serves as a favourite hangout place for many   living in the area.

 The alleged theft came to light in the morning last Friday when the librarian, Pankaj, came to open the library located inside the Chakkarpur community centre just behind a government girl’s school and found the locks missing and window glasses broken. “The entire library was   and most of the books were missing,” said Pankaj.
 
 According to him, the library, which was inaugurated two and a half years ago by the municipal corporation, had a total of 1,967 books, of which 1,297 have been found to be missing.
 
 Pankaj said the books were only available for reading at the library and no one was allowed to take books home. “Most of them were novels in Hindi and English. Several senior citizens come to the library regularly and spend hours reading,” he added.
 
 The residents, especially elderly persons, expressed shock. “It is strange and unfortunate. We come here to read books and interact with like minded people,” said Sudesh Yadav, a former employee of the electricity department and local resident.
 
 The residents filed a police complaint against an unknown thief on Monday after counting the remaining books and finding out other details.
 
 An FIR was filed under sections 380 (theft) and 457 (trespassing) of the IPC at Sector 29 police station. “We are investigating the case. This is probably the first such theft,” said a police officer.
 
 “The theft at the library has been reported and we are looking into the matter,” said a senior   official.
 
 MCG records suggest there are two security guards posted for 24x7 vigil at the Chakkarpur community centre. However, when TOI spoke to the lone guard, he claimed his duty was from morning to evening and that no other guard was posted at the centre at night.
 
 The Chakkarpur library was one of the four such facilities started by MCG a few years ago. While three of them, including the two libraries in DLF 1 and 2, are still running, the one in DLF 3 was shut down around six months ago.
 
 As per the MCG plan, a total of 54 libraries were supposed to be set up in different parts of the city to create ‘centres of information’, making all kinds of information easily available to the residents.
 
 
