Surat: HIV-positive people seeking life partners from more than 10 states in the country will descend on Hazira near Surat to participate in a marriage fair or ‘jeevansathi pasandgi mela’ being organized on Saturday.  The first of its kind national marriage fair is being organized by Gujarat State Network of People Living with HIV/AIDS (GSNP+), a non-governmental organization (NGO) offering free consultation services for HIV positive brides and grooms, in association with Reliance Industries Limited (RIL).  The marriage fair for the HIV positive people is being organized every year for the last 10 years. It started from Surat and then expanded to include HIV positive marriage seekers of Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh. This is first time that the HIV positive people seeking life partners will be arriving in the city from more than 10 states across the country.  If the volunteers of GSNP+ are to be believed then around 800 registrations of the HIV positive people seeking life partners have come in from Gujarat, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, New Delhi, Punjab, West Bengal, Rajasthan and two other states. “Unlike every year, this time around we have expanded our marriage mela to more than 10 states in the country. The marriage mela is going to be unique this time as marriage seekers will have a broad choice to select their life partners from different states,” GSNP+ president Daxa Patel said. There is a higher proportion of infected men as compared to women. Owing to higher proportion of infected men, prospective brides usually get a greater freedom in choosing their partners. The marriage mela will be held at Reliance HIV and TB Centre at Hazira where men would walk up on stage and formally introduce themselves, talking about their profession and income, in front of an audience comprising mostly prospective brides and their family members. “The prospective grooms and brides have freedom to choose their partners as they walk on stage and talk about themselves. Once the groom and bride like each other, the next stage will be to consult their parents or relatives besides mutual consent,” Patel said. She said for the first time female participants in the marriage mela will be reimbursed all their travelling and other expenses with the help of Reliance Foundation. 