INDORE: Thousands of medical aspirants appearing for National Eligibility and Entrance Test ( ) had to go through strict frisking in the city on Sunday as per norm
 s set by   ( ).

 CBSE had appointed trained teachers and officials at 22 examination centres in the city to ensure that the   directives are followed. 
 
 Nearly 10,000 candidates appeared for the examination in Indore. Stern frisking at all the examination centres became a test for many candidates as well as their parents, who had gone to the examination centres with them. 
 
 Students were asked to bring photocopy of Aadhaar card and three passport size photographs along with them. However, many had to face a tough time since they forgot to bring them. 
 
 Though aspirants were directed not to bring mobile phones with them, several brought them and struggled to keep them safely before the examination.
 
 Security was high at all the examination centres. Female staff was appointed at the centres to check the female candidates. They were asked to remove hair pins, jewellery and shoes outside the examination halls during frisking. 
 
 Tanushree Chouhan, a candidate who appeared for NEET said, "I was frisked four or five times right from the time I entered the school's main gate till the classroom." She said that candidates were asked to leave their wallets, belts, bags and mobile phones outside the examination room.
 
 A separate dress code was prescribed for candidates appearing for the exam. Students were directed to wear light clothes with half sleeves and no shoes were allowed inside the centres.
 
 Many candidates, who reached the examination centres with full or three-fourth sleeves, had to get their sleeves cut off before they entered the examination hall.
 
 The CBSE had issued a letter prior to the examination, informing candidates well in advance about certain items such as any stationery like pens, rulers, erasers and calculators that were not be allowed inside examination centres.
 
 After completing the exam, a majority of candidates felt that all three sections were easier this time as compared to previous years. "I was extremely stressed before the examination, but after I saw the paper I was relieved and attempted the exams very confidently, physics was slightly tough," said Rashi Gupta, another candidate.
 
 Medical entrance coaching experts from the city also rated NEET 2018 question paper as  . 
 
 
