Before the Dulquers and Fahadhs popularised new-gen cinema that told urban stories, Mollywood had a dearth for actors who could carry off such roles. But every time such a script did surface, Tamil actor   was often used as the archetype, and yet it has taken him so long to make his Malayalam debut.

 But the actor’s hardly complaining, as he says his first film Kammara Sambhavam left him spell-bound – in terms of its filmmaking, story and the quality of the team. Siddharth, who has even taken up the challenge of dubbing in Malayalam, talks to us about working in Mollywood, the advantages and disadvantages of being in the film industry for 16 years and his disinclination for fan clubs
 
 
 
 The best way of explaining it is, like I tweeted a few days ago. I feel like I studied the syllabus, wrote the exam and now I am waiting for the results. As somebody who works in multiple film industries, I have been quite blessed to get the opportunity to learn languages. The sad thing about this day and age is that the need to learn a new language is becoming less. To learn a classical language like Malayalam was a huge opportunity for me. Also, none of my films have had someone else dub for me so there was no question that I was not going to dub for my first Malayalam movie. It has been one of the most challenging experiences of my creative career. I have learnt new things every day.
 
 The other exciting part was   had written the dialogues. His Malayalam is extremely high brow; it’s intelligent and has a personality of its own. It might have been easier for me if it was a regular Malayalam film but having Murali write the lines made it tougher.
 
  
  
 
 
 I like to learn why a sentence is constructed the way it is. So, I am not repeating what someone else is telling me; I am understanding and learning the lines before saying them. That process helps me with the performance. With Kammara Sambhavam, I have had the freedom to dub it with the kind of detail we wanted. I can tell you without any false modesty that there is no way to perfect the language in your first try. I think only a genius can do that and I am clear that I am just a hardworking actor. So, I wouldn’t want to set people up. I have given it my best and it’s been a rewarding experience. The good part about it is that I can live with this performance for a long time.
 
 
 
 My first Malayalam film might have been Ustad Hotel but I didn’t have the time back then and I was unlucky to miss that movie. There wasn’t anything specific I was looking for my debut but when I heard the script I wanted to feel that this has to be my first Malayalam film, because you only get one first film. So, when I met Murali and Rathish three years ago and they narrated the whole script to me, I was taken aback by the quality of the ambition. See, it’s good to be ambitious but then when you are ambitious with this kind of quality with the amount of research that has gone into the film, the kind of entertainment value it offers in terms of how the movie wants to make the audience feel, I was spellbound.
 
 Not just me but everybody who has worked with the film has been with it for a long time and that doesn’t happen often. Everyone involved believe in it with the same kind of passion and expect it to do what they think it’s going to do. Few films can unite an entire group of people like that to make a difference, to make good cinema. That shows in the way the film has been cast and filmed. I can put   on par with any international movie that you will watch this year.
 
  
  
 I also had the good fortune of working with Dileepettan in the film. I have seen how much effort he has put in. As an actor, I think this is his finest performance. It’s the kind of cinema that he will be known for from now on because he’s done such an amazing job. I also believe so much in Rathish and his team of high quality technicians. As a director, it’s a great debut for him too.
 
 
 
 I have been in touch with people in Kerala and I have been talking to them about the right kind of film. I think actors can’t decide what kind of films they can get; they can only choose the best from what they have been offered. I believe everything needs the first step. As I have been in multiple industries, people from other industries usually think I am busy in the primary industry. That may or may not always be true. Sometimes I am, sometimes I am not. I wish it would always be about them asking me. It’s not like I have said I am not ready for a debut. I have just been waiting for the right film.
 
  
  
 
 
 There’s no disadvantage of being in the film industry for 16 years as just like the beautiful Malayalam language, this is an industry where you learn something new every day. So, the wisdom comes in handy. Having said that, the disadvantage as you mentioned, I don’t look my age so that may or may not give me an edge. Sometimes, it limits the kind of work I am offered. You can’t complain, I guess. You have to take both sides of the spectrum as it helps me play roles which are much younger as well. Maybe I will find a balance between doing the kind of quality work that I want to do and match it with my supposed young looks.
 
 
 
 I think my biggest strength as an actor is that I don’t have an image. Fortunately that helps to do the kind of film I want to do. I am a fiercely independent producer first, so I believe that there is a lot of talent that needs to come to the fore without the industry telling the audience what to watch. There will always be big, commercial films but at the same time there needs to be people representing all the stories that need to be told. That’s the only thing I want. I think a film is big or small, not based on its budget but based on its relevance and how it appeals to the people who it is made for. That’s a way a film is measured in my book and that helps.
 
  
  
 
 
 Not that it’s been a problem or anything, but I have been against fan clubs since my second film. I have never encouraged fan clubs. It’s not part of my consciousness; I don’t wake up in the morning or go to bed thinking about it. I don’t know if I was ever a big enough star to deserve fan clubs. If I did, then it was not something that particularly appealed to me. Like I said, I don’t have an image and so I don’t understand the whole fan-club idea. I’d like people to judge me on my films and I am sure if they like the films, they would encourage more of the same.
 
 
 
 I don’t think there is any one way. I believe for every school of thought, there are many subscribers. If everybody starts thinking the same way, it would be a boring world. That’s why everybody should make films that they want to. There’s no good or bad cinema. Everybody makes films to entertain people, make money and because they like making films. Everybody should be allowed to do what they want to do and that would make for a more diverse cinema. That’s why I don’t believe in the concept of advice when it comes to cinema. I can give advice regarding the country – I will say pay your taxes, don’t litter, don’t abuse women and children. These are things you can do as a good citizen. Cinema is not like that. It’s an artistic expression.
 
  
  
 
 
 I believe some boundaries become more and more permanent and some less. For people like me who work in multiple industries, I don’t think all of them are united. The Indian cinema is still divided. It is not one cinema in the sense that some people think cinema is Bollywood and some fight that. I understand why. But I think it’s important that Indian cinema is known for where it is really made and I believe South cinema really needs to be recognised a lot more.
 
 
 
 I am absolutely looking for good scripts, whichever language they come in. I am looking forward to doing good films in Malayalam because I have waited a long time to be in this industry. I grew up watching Malayalam films and I have great respect for the cinema here. It’s going to be a huge honour to be part of that journey.
 
