HYDERABAD: After registering three FIRs in the cotton Minimum Support Price ( ) fraud, the   ( ) on Tuesday conducted searches across Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra and Gujarat at the premises of   of India ( ) officials and ex-officials.

 The CBI’s charge is that traders gained crores of rupees posing as farmers and selling cotton to the CCI to siphon off the MSP that is given to farmers. Traders purchased the cotton for a lesser price in the market from farmers and sold it to the CCI at a higher price than the MSP. The lack of MSP for cotton farmers has been cited by experts as one of the reasons for the increasing suicides by ryots.
 
 The MSP fraud took place at Jainoor, Narnoon and Chinnur, Asifabad and Neredigonda centres of CCI in Adilabad of Telangana.
 
 
 
 
 The CBI alleged in the FIR, “During 2014-15, the accused cotton purchase officers and other public servants working in CCI entered into a criminal conspiracy with traders who impersonated farmers and cheated CCI.”
 
 During the period, the open market price of cotton was around ₹3,750 per quintal, and the minimum support price was ₹4,050 per quintal at the centre, and CCI was supposed to purchase cotton at MSP rate from the farmers.
 
 As per the guidelines of 2007 of CCI, the responsibility to identify the farmers lies with the agricultural marketing committee and in case of any name repeatedly appeared in bidding slips, it has to be reverified. In September 2014, the Telangana agricultural department has issued orders that any farmer can sell the cotton a maximum of four times in the market. As per rules, farmers have to produce a copy of pattadar pass book issued by Mee Seva Kendra or certificates issued by revenue officers at the time of procurement of cotton.
 
 The accused officials, violating guidelines of both CCI and agricultural department, used a false document as genuine and caused wrongful gain to the traders.
 
 At Jainoor, Narnoon and Chennur centre, the traders made ₹48 lakh. The accused traders posing as farmers sold cotton more than 50 times. The complaint was filed by N Raghavendra Kumar, CBI inspector of police at Koti in Hyderabad. At Pochera and Neredigonda centres of Adilabad, traders made a wrongful gain of ₹57 lakh. At Asifabad centre of Adilabad, traders gained ₹63 lakh wrongfully.
 
 
 
