Gurgaon: Three men fired indiscriminately at a city-based businessman’s Honda Jazz parked outside his Sector 31 home on Friday morning, triggering panic in the area. But before they had opened fire, the trio handed over a hand-written note to 33-year-old Manish Khatter, demanding Rs 60 lakh in the name of the dreaded Kaushal gang.

 The accused also threatened Khatter, who owns Twin Wheels, a multi-brand used car dealer, of dire consequences if he did not pay the money at the earliest. The crime took place in full public view around 11.30 a.m. An FIR has been registered at Sector 40 police station.
 
 According to Khatter’s police complaint, the trio knocked on his door, prompting his domestic help Ajay to open it. 
 
 As soon as Ajay opened the door, the accused asked him to call Khatter. 
 
 “And when I came out, the three enquired about my father, Ishwar Chand Khatter. When I tol them that my father is not at home, they handed over the ‘extortion’ note to me,” he said.
 
 “Dagar Bhai called. You didn’t answer and now you will have to pay Rs 60 lakh, instead of Rs 50 lakh, as protection money. If you don’t pay at the earliest, then you cannot imagine how bad the consequences will be. These men will show you the trailer,” says the note in Hindi.
 
 By the time, Khatter finished reading the note, the men fired nine rounds on the car and fled on foot.
 
 A FIR has been registered at Sector 40 police station under sections 307 (attempt to murder), 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention), 387 (putting person in fear of death or of grievous hurt, in order to commit  ) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of IPC and Arms Act.
 
 “The unknown accused were between 25 and 30 years of age,” said inspector Sudhir Kumar, SHO at Sector 40 police station. 
 
 “We have launched a manhunt to track them down,” the police officer added.
 
 Kaushal’s is the only active gang in the district. Kaushal hails from Gurgaon’s Naharpur and Amit Dagar is his partner. The latter hails from Palwal.
 
 
