NAGPUR: The Smart City board has decided on integration of city buses and Metro  . Now, NMC general body will pass a resolution to handover city   service and subsequently, government will direct Maha   to take over the service.

 Confirming this, a senior Nagpur Smart and Sustainable City Development Corporation Limited (NSSCDCL) official told TOI that a board meeting was convened today to discuss on 20 various proposals. “The board has given nod to all the proposals including the integration of city buses with Metro Rail,” he said. The board has submitted a study conducted by the Smart City’s special purpose vehicle NSSCDCL that had suggested integration of Metro rail and city bus services. 
 
 The board members unanimously gave nods to the findings of the study that a single authority for the two services as best solution for sustainable public transport in the city.
 
 TOI was the first to report about NSSCDCL’s plan to merge city bus with Metro rail on December 19, 2017. In order to have sustainable public transport in the city, NSSCDCL had on December 18, 2017 directed Smart City’s project management consultant — UK-based Grant Thornton India — to conduct a study on this.
 
 Now, the board will table the proposal before the general body of the Nagpur Municipal Corporation for its nod. Sources in the NMC said the civic body should hand over the city bus operation to Metro as they can manage the service well. Presently, the civic body is facing crisis to even pay operators’ bill on time. It also affected smooth operation of city buses, said the sources. Even in last one year, the civic body’s casual approach has led to stir of city buses on many occasions. 
 
 However, MahaMetro is not ready to take over the loss-making city bus service at this stage. Recently, in a statement to TOI, MahaMetro managing director Brijesh Dixit ruled out of taking over the charge of city bus service from the NMC. According to him, the ideal time for taking over the service would have been after completion of the phase II of  . 
 
 
