CHANDIGARH: Due to a miscalculation of  , the residents are receiving repeat notices and, to harass the public further, the municipal corporation has decided to accept the fee in just one bank instead of all e-Sampark centres. 

 Residents of various sectors have complained of serious flaws in the calculation of house tax. Resident R C Nayyar received a penal notice for Rs 9,214 as three-year dues, while he has paid the full amount already. When he visited the office of the MC assistant tax collector, they found out that he had no dues to pay as house tax. The officials accepted that the company to which they had assigned the task of calculating the tax might have made some errors.
 
 Another resident,  , submitted a memorandum to the municipal commissioner on Monday, stating that the MC notice required her to pay Rs 5,021 as find, even though she had cleared all her tax payment and imagined there was zero balance. It’s the area of her property that has been calculated wrong.
 
 Retired professor   of Sector 21 said the Municipal Corporation of Chandigarh had issued these default notices to the residents for the recovery of property-tax arrears. “The residents are ready to pay but this miscalculation and repeat notices have become a headache for the senior citizens, especially. Residents are running from pillar to post to get these notices corrected, but to no avail. There is a big queue of fee depositors at the municipal corporation’s office. Waiting in the queue can take hours. At the office, there is no drinking water or seating arrangement for senior citizens.
 
 Verma said that the time given for depositing the arrears was one week. “The deadline for depositing the tax is March 31, while the residents received these notices only between March 21 and 24, through private courier,” he said. “The letters were stamped on March 1. The deadline for filing the tax should be extended to May 31 and the residents should also be allowed to deposit the money at the Sampark centre along with the  .”
 
 In order to reduce the rush at the MC office, he suggested that the corporation could set up a camp office at the Sampark centres for three to four days. “Residents should be invited to the Sampark centre to get their grievances redressed,” Verma said.
 
 Resident  , a lawyer, wrote to UT adviser   on Monday that after the people have received the latest house-tax recovery notices, they were rushing to the Sampark centres to make payment. “After long hours of standing in the queue, when their turn comes at the window, they are told that only Oriental Bank of Commerce is authorised to collect the house tax. They are left with no alternative but to go to the band and stand in another queue. Or the go home and plan for another day,” he wrote.
 
 He wrote that this was beyond comprehension why those who had issued the letters had withdrawn the facility of payment at Sampark centres.
 
 In the dock
 
 This year, the residents are facing a lot of inconvenience because the municipal corporation has erroneous records of the taxpayers. The errors force them to make several rounds the MC office. Default notices were served to the residents all over the city but the payment of the tax is area-wise
 
 Gurpreet Singh | senior deputy mayor
 
 
