BENGALURU:   of the   ( ), who had thought they were finally done with exams, woke up to a shocker on Wednesday when they were informed that they’d have to   in two subjects.

 In a notification on Wednesday, CBSE said it had taken “cognizance of certain happenings in the conduct of certain examinations” and that with the “view to uphold the sanctity of the board examinations and in the interest of the fairness to students”, it had decided to   in two subjects: mathematics for class 10 and economics for class 12 students.
 
 Taking to Twitter, Pranav Viju, a student, said: “Today, I came home happily after finishing my CBSE class 10 maths paper and was surprised to find in news that the paper was leaked and that we now have to rewrite our exams. I don’t understand what are the officials doing. We received no message regarding the paper leak yesterday then why should we suffer? Just because a bunch of kids did this, the whole nation has to rewrite the paper.”
 
 For Harini MS, a class 12 commerce student, Monday’s economics paper meant exams would be over. “We just wanted a few days to relax. Now, we’ll have to get back to studying. Perhaps 5-6 people leaked the paper, but lakhs of students will have to pay for it now. Monday’s paper was an easy one, but now we don’t know what the new paper will be like,” she said.
 
 Teachers too are upset with the developments and feel this will seriously impact the morale and results of students. “This is going to be very difficult for students, and will definitely impact their results. Additionally, it might even impact those students who are planning to write entrance tests later,” said Rajesh Pillai, principal, National Public School, Chikkabanavara.
 
 Echoing similar sentiments, Manju Sharma, principal of Delhi Public School (South), said: “For most class 10 students, Wednesday’s maths paper was the last and they were all in high spirits, saying the paper was very easy. Their families must have planned holidays. With new exam dates not yet announced, these plans could get disrupted,” she said, adding students will have to get back to their books for both these subjects.
 
 “The students came back so happy and relieved after writing the maths paper. They said the paper was very easy and all they wanted to do now was just catch up on some sleep. This is highly unfortunate and unfair to students who knew nothing of the paper leak. The miscreants must be caught and punished,” said Sarada Chandrasekaran, director, Whitefield Global School.
 
 
