GURUGRAM: MCG and the Haryana State Pollution Control Board ( ) have come up with steps to check air pollution, days after Gurugram ranked 11th in the World Health Organisation’s report on the most polluted cities. 

 According to the pollution board officials, the steps include installation of water   at major junctions, introduction of sweeping machines, cleaning of kachcha roads and making it mandatory for highly polluting industries to install air quality monitoring machines. For this, the HSPCB through the district administration has requested the ministry of environment, forest and climate change to release a fund of Rs 34 crore.
 
  
 The regional officer of HSPCB, Jai Bhagwan, told TOI, “We are planning to start mechanised sweeping of the city roads. To control road dust, water sprinklers can be installed at important junctions. Besides, we have given strict directions to the highly polluting industries to install air quality monitoring systems. We, through the district administration, have sought funds from the Union ministry. These steps will go a long way in controlling air pollution in the city.”
 
 MCG, on the other hand, has planned to put in place a proper mechanism to deal with dumping and burning of waste in the open. Even though the corporation has put in place a task force and a toll free helpline to deal with the complaints of waste burning and illegal waste dumping, it plans to have an exclusive team to keep a check on the cases. 
 
 “We have already had campaigns to check and control waste burning and dumping of waste in the open. Now, we are planning to add more staff to the special task force. As far as the helpline is concerned, we already have a toll free helpline to deal with the cases. However, if required, the mechanism can be strengthened,” said MCG commissioner Yashpal Yadav.
 
 The MCG chief added that with a better transport system the level of pollution can be controlled. “Gurugram will have more city buses by August-September this year. Not just buses, different departments are working on different plans to introduce other means of public transport. We are also working on a plan to plant trees to make the city greener. All these steps will surely help in checking pollution,” Yadav said.
 
 
