AHMEDABAD: Another close aide of Patidar quota stir leader Hardik Patel, has now turned against him. Dilip  , convener of the Botad unit of Patidar Anamat Andolan Samiti Botad ( ), on Friday circulated messages on Patidar groups, claiming that his elimination as a candidate for the December 2017 assembly elections was a conspiracy hatched by   and few Patidar leaders to ensure the   won. 

 Sabva's rebellion is significant as he also holds the post of PAAS cadre in-charge, responsible for mobilizing community members against the BJP.
 
 In the run-up to the polls, Sabva played a crucial role organizing Hardik's rallies in  , which received a stupendous response.
 
 "Two months after the elections, I have reached the conclusion that there was a sinister plot hatched by influential Patidar leaders and the Congress to help BJP win 30 unlikely seats," Sabva told TOI.
 
 Sabva said Saurabh Patel's defeat on the Botad seat was imminent, but there was intentional mismanagement by Congress in fielding APMC chairman D M Patel. Saurabh Patel won by a wafer-thin margin of 906 votes.
 
 About whether he had discussed the issue with Hardik, Sabva said, "There is no meaning (in speaking with him). I will address the media on the issue shortly."
 
 Sources in PAAS, however, said that Sabva lobbied hard for the candidature from Botad, but Hardik and the Congress favoured D M Patel. "Sabva did work hard to make PAAS rallies a success. But Hardik's autocratic ways left him bitter. It was believed that the Congress may storm to power. However, when this did not happen, the rift between the two only widened," said a PAAS leader.
 
 It is also learnt that Sabva had even written letters to 11 influential Patidar organizations, including Umiyadham and Khodaldham, without consulting Hardik, which left the latter even more cross.
 
 Earlier, Hardik's close aides Dinesh Bambhania, Ketan Patel, Varun Patel, Chirag Patel and Reshma Patel had severed ties with him reportedly over his dictatorial style of working.
 
 
