KOLKATA: The writing has been there on the billboards for a while cautioning motorists against indiscriminately parking cars at night. But those who did not heed the   (KMC) warning learnt it the hard way on Sunday night when civic officials and police clamped more than 80 cars in the central business district. The clamps were removed only after the vehicle owner/ driver coughed up Rs 1,000 each.

 Though KMC had advertised about the drive, it has led to confusion among car owners who go out late, particularly on weekends, either to dine at restaurants or party at friends’ places. There is concern over the safety of cars parked in unattended parking lots at a distance rather than at the doorstep of homes or restaurants.
 
  
  
 Following the Sunday night drive at BBD Bag, KMC officials said they had been publicising the need to adhere to parking rules. “Indiscriminate night parking has become a problem. It has in the past even blocked access to fire tenders. We felt the need to do something. Thus, the parking lots that were operational all day and evening will now also function at night so that vehicles can be parked in an orderly manner and KMC too gets some revenue,” an official said.
 However, motorists were skeptical of the move to keep parking zones manned till late, pointing out that other than nightspots like Park Street, Camac Street, Elgin Road, Purna Das Road and a few other places, it would not be viable for parking attendants to hang around till late night.
 
 The wording of the warning has also contributed to the confusion. “If your vehicle is not parked within authorized fee parking area and you do not have valid parking sticker, then KMC will clamp your vehicle and impose fine. To aviod clamping, apply for night parking sticker by paying the requisite fee,” the notice said. Motorists don’t understand if they need to purchase a night parking sticker for going out during the weekend. The KMC hands out stickers against payment of Rs 450 per month, which allows parking at designated lots between 10pm and 7am.
 
 AKMC official said the drive was primarily aimed at habitual offenders who parked cars on the streets at night because they did not have a garage and refused to pay the KMC night parking fee. “Some car owners are willing to pay a fine of Rs 1,000 rather than Rs 450 to KMC. There have been several instances when car owners have been fined twice in a month for  ,” another official said.
 
 The problem of streets being clogged with parked cars is more common in central and north Kolkata. In south Kolkata, streets in areas like   have been converted into illegal night parking lots. There have even been gang wars to take control of the lots, leading to damage of cars.
  
 Cops are demarcating parking zones on the asphalt in blue on the Park Circus-Gariahat stretch and the initiative will be extended to the rest of the city.
 
