THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Education minister   tried to justify the partial revamping of the vocational higher secondary course by pointing the finger at the former   government. The minister said here on Thursday that the former UDF government had done nothing to align the   course with the national skill qualification framework ( ). 

 
 "The Union government had given the directions long ago. In the present condition, we cannot offer NSQF-aligned courses in all VHSE schools. It would be introduced in a phased manner only. Several issues are likely to crop up but the government is confident to face them without causing difficulties to the staff. The government would ensure pay parity among the teaching faculty and lab assistants," the minister said. 
 
 However, the minister refused to respond to the criticisms that selective revamping of the course in less than 17% of the VHSE schools in the state would render the same course offered in majority of VHSE schools invalid. As per the Union government directive, vocational higher secondary courses that are not aligned with NSQF would not be valid after December, 2018. "Students would be able to pursue their higher studies," the minister said. However, he refused to explain how students pursuing courses not aligned with NSQF would be eligible to obtain a valid skill certificate, which is mandatory for them to explore job opportunities.
 
 The minister said 80.32% of students who appeared for the VHSE examination this year have cleared parts 1, 2 and 3. Only those who clear all the three parts are eligible for higher studies. As many as 90.24% of students cleared part 1 and 2, which makes them eligible for trade and skill certificate and competent for doing apprenticeships. There are 389 schools offering VHSE courses. Of this, 66 schools in government sector would be introducing the NSQF-aligned course. It means that of the 23,850 seats in vocation higher secondary sector, only 3,675 would be NSQF-aligned. Even as the government promised to revamp the course in a phased manner, there are allegations that it has plans to phase out the course in another three years.
 
