KOLKATA: The   on Saturday arrested three persons, including a disc jockey and a BBA graduate, for allegedly running a drug cartel in the city.

 The accused, who reportedly procured the contraband through dark web, were arrested with MDMA, LSD, Ecstasy and “magic mushrooms”— a psychedelic drug used in the party circuit. According to NCB officials, the seized mushrooms contained high quantities of psilocybin and psilocine, which fell under Schedule 1 of the Convention on Psychotropic Substances and were illegal in the country.
 
 Entry of magic mushrooms — a psilocybin containing mushroom — in Kolkata’s party scene took the NCB officials by surprise as they grappled with the route of the drug into the country. Mostly grown in Mexico, South America and Indonesia, it is a hallucinogenic drug taken with food or coated with chocolate to kill its bitter taste. NCB officials came across a few web-links to Netherlands and seized envelopes containing postage stamps of the north-western European nation. The hallucinogenic effects of magic mushrooms are stronger than LSD blots or MDMA, and can last for around eight hours.
 
 Following the trail of DJs dealing in drugs, NCB officials laid a trap after they were tipped off about a popular DJ. Accused Deep Chakraborty was in touch with two peddlers, Vivek Sharma and his cousin Rishabh, both management graduates. One of the officials, who posed as a customer, got in touch with Vivek. When Vivek reached him to deliver the consignment, he was nabbed.
 
 During raids, NCB officials seized 13.5g MDMA, 2.5g magic mushroom, 20 paper blots of LSD and nine pills of Ecstasy, worth Rs 30 lakh in total. “We had inputs that Vivek and Rishabh used a mobile application, “Dream Market”, to place orders on the dark web. Once the order was accepted, payment was made through cryptocurrencies like Bitcoin. “This is the second case in which Bitcoin was used to procure drugs through the dark web. We found a similar mode of operation when a DJ was arrested last December. They used to order MDMA and LSD stamps on the dark web and the consignment reached them through courier,” said Dilip Srivastava, zonal director of NCB.
 
 Both Vivek and Riashabh supplied drugs to Deep, who had a network among party goers. Probing into the drug cartels in the city that mainly supply to party goers, NCB officials found they had developed groups on instant messaging applications, which largely remained under radar. They use encrypted messaging platforms like Telegram and WhatsApp to keep communications covert. “We had a lot of leads when we intercepted their   and Messenger accounts. Their Bitcoin transactions were also linked to such groups,” Srivastav said.
 
 The trio said they would target party-goers and college students who were on the lookout for new varieties. The lawyers of the accused could not be contacted as they were produced before a judicial magistrate on Sunday to seek permission to produce them before a district judge court a day after.
 
