KOCHI: The lone   ( ) feeder service of   stopped service recently due to lack of passengers.

 
 KSRTC had started the service following a demand from   (KMRL). The service which began on March 11 this year connected two Metro stations on M G Road.
 
 
  
  
 The service was suspended two weeks ago as the daily collection was below Rs 4,000. KSRTC used Thiru-Kochi bus for the service and it connected   Boat Jetty, Fort Kochi, Karanakodam and   in Alappuzha.
 
 Officials have now deployed the bus used for the service in other routes where daily collection touches Rs 10,000. “We don’t have the luxury of buses. KSRTC is already deep in financial crisis and we cannot afford more losses. We did not get daily collection of even Rs 4,000 and on some days, it was below Rs 3,000. We could not meet the daily expenses, including wages of employees of the bus and maintenance work. We could get a daily collection of Rs 4,000 only because the service connected areas like Thuravoor and Karanakodam. Currently, we have been asked to bring changes in the schedule of buses. When the new schedule is in place, we will think of resuming the service, after examining all aspects,” said Habeeb Muhammed, controlling inspector (general) in Ernakulam depot.
 
 The bus had to operate with below five passengers from Metro stations to Boat Jetty in some schedules. The corporation had made it clear that they can continue the service only when the daily collection touches minimum of Rs 5,000.
 
 The KSRTC had operated similar feeder service last year with much fanfare when Metro services began on Aluva-Palarivattom stretch in June 2017.
 
 Kerala Urban Road Transport Corporation (KURTC) deployed 18 lowfloor buses brought from other depots for the purpose. But the corporation withdrew the buses from feeder service within days due to poor passenger response.
 
 “We are going to install GPS devices in 1,000 buses to offer information-based solution to the public. People will use feeder services when it is integrated with the public transport services. We will hold a discussion with KSRTC,” said A P M Mohammed Hanish, MD, KMRL.
 
 
 
