Pune: The state animal husbandry department (AHD) has decided to purchase 3,000 high-yield Frieswal cows, a crossbreed between the Dutch Holstein Friesian and the Indian Sahiwal breeds, from the military farms that are being shut down.

 “We recently discussed this issue with the army authorities and we are convinced that this breed of cows can play a major role in increasing the milk production in the state. As such, we have decided to purchase 3,000 Frieswal cows in a phased manner,” Kantilal Umap, the AHD commissioner, told TOI.
 
 Each Frieswal cow can produce an average of 3,600 litres of milk per lactation period as against 2,000-litre yield by the Indian breed of cows. “We will establish a special cowshed, which would be equipped with the latest facilities, at Tathawade for the new acquisitions. These cows will be kept at this facility so that we can pay adequate attention to them and farmers can visit the facility and get to learn about the cows,” the AHD commissioner added.
 
 Last year, the ministry of defence (MoD) had issued an order for the closure of all 39 military dairy farms in the country following a recommendation to this effect by the Central government–appointed Lt Gen DB Shekatkar committee.
 
 However, the army authorities could not close these farms as they were facing difficulties in auctioning about 20,000 cows due to various reasons. Some sources said the cost of one cow is more than Rs 1 lakh. On an average, Rs 400 is required as each cow’s daily maintenance expense. Therefore, the animal husbandry departments from various states did not show much interest in purchasing these cows.
 
 Sources at the military farm here said, “The immediate closure of these farms is not possible as it has to be done in a proper way so that all cows could either be given to the state government or sold to private players at a minimal rate.”
 
 A senior AHD official said, “We have made a proposal to the army authorities to give the animals at a minimal price so that we can procure them in large numbers. We have also asked them to share their expertise with us until the time we get adequate information.”
 
 
