LUDHIANA: A local court, on Wednesday, sentenced four convicts to 25 years of rigorous imprisonment each for gang-raping a minor. A fine of Rs 1,00,000 each has also been imposed on the four. In case of default in fine payment, they will have to undergo another two years of rigorous imprisonment. The court acquitted two accused, Rahul Kumar and his namesake, both residents of  , giving them benefit of doubt.

 On March 7, 2015, PAU police had booked six men —  , 31;  , 26, both residents of Haibowal;  , 32; Rahul Kumar, 25; another Rahul Kumar, 25, all residents of Haibowal Kalan; and  , 26 — for gang-raping the minor.
 
 The survivor’s father had said in his police complaint, “On March 6, 2015, my 13-year-old daughter went to a sweet shop on her bicycle. When she didn’t return, we started searching for her but found her no where. The next day, an acquaintance told me that he saw Rahul taking my daughter towards Dairy Complex on his scooter.” 
 
 Soon thereafter, the girl returned home. “My daughter said someone took away her bicycle while she was making purchases at the sweet shop. Then Rahul forced her on his scooter and took her to Dairy Complex where five to six men were already present. They took her to an abandoned building and raped her,” the complainant added. 
 
 On March 11, 2015, police arrested the accused and presented the chargesheet in court.
 
 During trial, Pawan and Kuldeep claimed that they did not know the minor, haven’t committed the crime and that they were charged on the basis of suspicion. Rahul said he neither kidnapped and raped the girl nor was present at the site. Charanjeet and Yogesh, too, claimed innocence. 
 
 Defence counsel argued that the girl’s statement was recorded four days after the registration of the case, which showed that she was made to make the statement after due deliberation. Besides, as per the medico-legal report, there was no external or internal injury on the girl, he added.
 
 The court turned down the defence plea on recording of her statement after four days of case registration, saying the girl was a minor. She was gang-raped and could not be expected to be in a proper frame of mind, it added. 
 
 The court observed that as per the testimony of the investigating officer, there was sand at the site and the minor was overpowered by five men. So, there was a possibility that there might not be any injury. 
 
 Additional public prosecutor S S Haidar sought severe punishment on the basis of the girl’s statement, medical examination report and identification of the accused. 
 
 
