NAGPUR: Perhaps for the first time in the world, leading veterinary doctors of the Maharashtra Animal and Fisheries Science University (MAFSU) and a top city orthopaedic surgeon have joined hands for prosthesis in a male tiger at Gorewada Rescue Centre in the city.

 Prosthesis is an artificial device that replaces a missing body part which may be lost through trauma, disease, or congenital conditions. Prosthetics are intended to restore the normal functions of the missing body part.
 
 “Earlier, it has been done for dogs and elephants around the world but not for tigers,” says well-known orthopaedic surgeon Dr Sushrut Babhulkar who adopted 8-year-old   on Friday for Rs2 lakh by handing over a cheque to Forest Development Corporation of Maharashtra divisional manager Nandkishore Kale.
 
 Pained to see the limping big cat, weighing 200kg and perhaps biggest in the country, Dr Babhulkar said he would procure the artificial limb from AO Foundation in Germany, which has the expertise in fracture fixation of humans and animals too.
 
 “I’m the only Indian Council member of AO and hence will use my contacts to talk to them to ensure that Sahebrao starts walking gracefully. He is pride of the region,” said Dr Babhulkar.
 
 Two-year-old Sahebrao and its male sibling were caught in a steel trap laid by   poachers in Gondmohadi, outside Tadoba-Andhari Tiger Reserve (TATR) on April 26, 2012.
 
 While the sibling died, Sahebrao was rescued and treated for an amputated front left leg limb by MAFSU vets here. The tiger was later shifted to city’s   zoo on December 12, 2012 and on June 1, 2016 to Gorewada. Sahebrao was adopted by Dr Babhulkar under a scheme for animals launched by the FDCM last year.
 
 Dr Babhulkar also discussed the issue of prosthesis with ex-associate dean of Nagpur Veterinary College Dr NP Dakshinkar, senior wildlife vets Dr Vinod  , Dr  , and Dr Shirish Upadhye, who had played key roles in saving Sahebrao from jaws of death.
 
 So, how does Dr Babhulkar plan to go about it. “First we will evaluate the painful neuroma of Sahebrao by conducting clinical tests. Treating this neuroma will free the tiger of pain post which we will go for silicon prosthesis, which is designed to give a natural look and animal cannot remove it. It will also be free from infections post fitting. It will build confidence in animal about natural walking.”
 
 “My observation is that Sahebrao is not irritated to see people but his poor ability is more due to painful neuroma, treatment of which will be our priority first. I will also arrange for a portable x-ray at the spot and treat the animal and ensure it undergoes minimum stress,” said Dr Babhulkar.
 
 Dr Dakshinkar said being a Schedule I animal under the Wildlife (Protection) Act 1972 permission from chief wildlife warden for prosthesis can be sought as an extended advanced treatment. “We should go for it. As it is, MAFSU and forest department has signed an MoU for research at Gorewada Rescue Centre,” he added.
 
 There have been many celebrities who adopt wild animals for publicity but Dr Babhulkar seems to have taken a decision with emotional attachment, especially for his love for tigers and Sahebrao in particular.
 
 Both, Dr Dhoot and Dr Upadhye, who have treated many tigers, said they have never heard of “prosthesis in tigers”. “It is common among birds and elephants too,” they said.
 
 
