NEW DELHI: Prime Minister   arrived here on late Tuesday midnight after wrapping up his one-day informal summit with Russian President Vladimir   in Russia's  .

 
 In a special gesture, President Vladimir Putin personally bid farewell to PM Narendra   at the airport at the conclusion of PM's short visit to Russia.
 
 Modi on Monday held his first informal summit with Putin and discussed a range of bilateral topics, including defence cooperation as well as global issues of common concern.
 
 Prime Minister Modi also visited the Moya Russia-Ethno centre, along with President Vladimir, where he saw various ancient artifacts crafted by Russian artisans and held talks with local artists.
 
 He then addressed students at Sirius educational centre situated at Sochi in Russia, where he invited the students to visit India.
 
 Following the event, children took Prime Minister Modi's autographs. One of the children brought along a glass slab, on which Prime Minister Modi wrote a message.
 
  
  
  
 
 Prime Minister Modi also enjoyed a yacht-ride in the Black sea of the Atlantic Ocean situated in Eastern Russia along with Russian President Vladimir Putin.
 
 Earlier, Prime Minister Modi held one-on-one talks with President Putin, in which he reiterated the strong bilateral relations between two countries.
 
 He further termed the Indo-Russian bilateral relations as a special privileged partnership.
 
 India and Russia expressed their concern over terrorism and radicalization during the informal summit.
 
 The two leaders also expressed their determination to combat terrorism in all its forms and manifestations.
 
 The two sides also "noted with satisfaction" the expanding cooperation in the energy sector.
 
 The two leaders noted with satisfaction the expanding cooperation in the energy sector and, in this regard, welcomed the arrival of the first consignment of Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) under a long-term agreement between Russian gas giant Gazprom and India's state-run gas utility GAIL, next month.
 
 
