PANAJI:   said   Sports Club’s success in the U-13  , at least in Goa, was proof that success is not too far away if you live and breathe football.
 
  Dempo, India’s most successful club for the past 15 years, have now taken a sabbatical from top-flight football and instead focusing on youth development. The club launched a residential academy last year and the results are beginning to show.
  
  In the   Youth League, Dempo finished on top of the Goa group that also had strong contenders like Sporting Clube de Goa, Churchill Brothers and Salgaocar FC. They topped the group to qualify for the final round in Kolkata. And now that they have qualified, the team coached by   does not want to settle for anything less than the title.
  
  “Except for four players, all players in this team are from our academy. This is proof that if you live and breathe football, you can go far,” said Dempo, the club chairman.
  
  Dempo has promised the young guns that he would personally watch them at the Howrah Stadium if they make it to the final on May 8. That would take quite some effort; Mohammedan Sporting, for now, is the only confirmed team in their group, while two other opponents are still unknown. Given that Goan teams have not had much success at the junior level, particularly with club football, it might be too much of an ask for the boys to go all the way.
  
  “This is really a talented lot. They have done a good job and have worked hard everyday. The plans are prepared by our technical director (Katz Naidoo) and we work according to that,” said Gomes, a former Dempo player. Dempo scored a massive 38 goals in eight league matches and conceded just two goals.
  
  “These boys never got to the final round by chance. And we are not going to make up the numbers. Our mantra has always been to keep possession and not let our opposition score. We will stick to that,” said Naidoo, the South African technical director.
  
  Meanwhile, Dempo said work on the second phase at the academy, which includes accommodation, will start post monsoon.
  
  Right now, the 24 boys are housed in hired accommodation close to the academy in Old Goa but will move to the academy next year.
  
  “We plan to have an artificial turf ground too. If we can acquire more land, we might even squeeze in a third ground but two grounds are a must,” said Dempo.
