CHANDIGARH: While the Haryana chief minister   on Tuesday announced a CBI probe into the land acquisition in   and   during the previous Bhupinder Singh Hooda-led Congress regime, senior IAS officer Ashok Khemka had already informed the state authorities about these land scams around one-and-a-half-year-ago, demanding registration of cases.

 In his communications, sent in September and October 2016 to the CM and chief secretary, Khemka had recorded that both Rohtak and Sonipat land scams were more blatant than the Manesar scam.
 
 “The state’s power of eminent domain was abused to force farmer-landowners to sell their lands to private colonizer. The licences became the basis subsequently to release land causing wrongful benefits to the private colonizer,” Khemka had written to the CM as well as chief secretary seeking a CBI probe.
 
 He had also explained the modus operandi of both these scams and had provided the details of some officers posted in Rohtak, industries and commerce, and town and country planning departments when these scams had taken place.
 
 The Sonipat land scam was also explained by Khemka, in his reply sent to chief secretary in February 2015, in response to the chargesheet issued against him in relation to the DLF-Vadra land deal.
 
 As per the allegation in the Sonipat land scam, around 885 acres were notified to be acquired in October 2005 for construction of the industrial workers’ housing colonies in sectors 59 and 60 in Sonipat by Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation (HSIIDC). However, around 300-acre land was illegally released for the housing project to a private colonizer.
 
 In the Rohtak land scam, the Haryana Urban Development Authority ( ) had proposed to acquire around 850 acres in 2002. In April 2003, only 441 acres were acquired and remaining land was released to private builders for developing a colony.
 
 In 2013, the Punjab and Haryana high court and in May 2016 the Supreme Court had set aside the Haryana government’s decision to release land to the private colonizer. The high court had even indicted the two senior bureaucrats who were posted in the office of the then CM Hooda for allegedly favouring the developers.
 
 “The officers of the state government, in their anxiety to help out builders, have completely overlooked the interest of landowners or of the general public to whom thousands of plots could have been allotted at a fairly low price through the aegis of HUDA,” HC had observed in that case.
 
 In this case, the Supreme Court had also asked the Haryana government to take action against the guilty officers but no action had been taken till date.
 
 
