KOLKATA: A 27-year-old Pathar   homemaker, who contested the local panchayat polls on a   ticket and lost to her aunt-in-law, a sitting Trinamool candidate, ended her life on Thursday, apparently unable to take the anxiety over the political repercussions that their personal lives would have had.

  
  
 Sadhana Samanta, said locals, was a reluctant contestant and was tense that the political acrimonies over the past few days would divide her home. She was so distressed she didn’t even visit the counting centre.
 
 The Digambarpur gram panchayat, where the Samantas live, has 19 gram panchayat seats, among which Trinamool has won 18 and BJP one. Sadhana was pitted against aunt-inlaw   (42) at Booth 54. “Sadhana never wanted to be in politics, least of all, contest against her aunt-in-law. She was always apprehensive of the outcome, whether she won or lost. She felt her personal rapport with her aunt-in-law would be permanently damaged. She was so anxious that on polling day, she defied her party and returned home after voting,” said a neighbour, Pratima Naskar.
 
 On Thursday evening, moments after she learnt from her husband Prithviraj that she had lost, she reportedly locked herself in her home. She was later found in a semi-conscious state, frothing at her mouth. Suspecting she had taken poison, she was taken to the local health centre. She died a little after midnight.
 
 BJP’s local leader Suphal Ghatu alleged, “Sadhana was humiliated at home and in public after she became the party’s candidate. After she lost, she couldn’t bear it any more.”
 
 The incident came as a blow to the family. Sujata, against whom Sadhana had contested, said, “I can’t fathom why she ended her life. She was so young and vibrant. When she was pitted against me, I was very surprised. While campaigning, we may have said a few words against each other. This, however, didn’t affect our relationship. She was like my daughter.”  , former Trinamool pradhan, said, “Her death has taken away all the happiness at winning the elections. Instead of celebrations, villagers today are mourning Sadhana’s death and arranging for her last rites. She was a young girl, unaware of politics.”
 
 
 
