CHENNAI: Eight-year-old Sowri is a fearless stopper of the football and tackles hard. He lunges in with both feet off the ground and doesn’t care if he hits the hard surface devoid of grass.

 Nishanth trains alongside Sowri at the same corporation playground in Mayor Krishnamurthy Nagar, Vyasarpadi. After a gruelling 60-minute session, an exhausted Nishanth rolls on the dusty ground but he knows he deserves more. “It would have been better had there been grass,” he said.
 
 But such is the pitiable state of corporation-maintained playgrounds in north Chennai, that athletes are greeted by overflowing trash bins, broken pieces of glass bottles and debris from the damaged compound wall. 
 
 “There are no lights in the ground which means there can be no play after dark,” said Parween Kumar, a resident.
 
 In nearby Kannigapuram, part of Thiru Vi Ka Nagar zone, the corporation is in the middle of renovating an iconic football playground for over six months. But locals are upset for a variety of reasons.
 
 “The renovation involves applying a coat of paint to make the damaged stadium look new,” said M Anbumani, a former footballer with Binny Mills, and a local resident.
 
 While the turf has been replaced with grass, locals say the corporation ignored their pleas to repair the damaged compound wall, which pose a threat to passersby. Renovation was expected to be complete by April, but the civic body extended its deadline by a month keeping the stadium off bounds for the residents.
 
 Lack of quality infrastructure plagues development of football at the grassroots level in the city, said former coach of the Tamil Nadu football team C M Ranjith. “If you look at the astro turf in Vysarpadi, there is no maintenance. The turf has come apart but the kids play on it because they have no choice,” said Ranjith.
 
 The first step in the process, Ranjith said, was to provide young footballers grass pitches to train on in order to improve the quality of their game.
 
 Corporation officials told TOI that steps would be taken to resolve the situation. “We are undertaking redevelopment work on playgrounds after assessing usage by residents. These projects can be taken up using smart city funds, AMRUT or the corporation’s capital funds,” a senior official said.
 
 
