HYDERABAD: In yet another first, the   government on Saturday announced that it will be setting up the country's first dedicated construction and building materials manufacturing park spread over nearly 250 acres near Hyderabad with KEF Infra, a wholly owned arm of UAE-based  , as the anchor. 

 Announcing this here along with KEF Holdings chairman Faizal E  , Telangana industries minister   said the park will come up close to Hyderabad either in Medchal or Ranga Reddy district and will have the potential to attract Rs 5,000-6,000 crore investments and generate around 10,000 direct jobs.
 
 "We are exploring four locations around Hyderabad for the park, which will come up on about 250 acres. Within three to four days we will finalise a location," KTR told newspersons.
 
 KEF Infra will be setting up its offsite manufacturing mother plant at an investment of Rs 650 crore ($100 million) over 50 acres at the proposed park and will generate about 1600 jobs, Kottikollon said. KEF Infra will make precast concrete structures, modular rooms, bathroom pods, among others at the facility enabling it to manufacture entire hospitals, homes, schools and commercial buildings that can be assembled onsite. 
 
 KTR said the government will provide land for the park and create basic infrastructure including roads, power, water, among others. The government will also train local youth to make them employment ready for industries setting up shop in the park. "We will also be promoting the park along with KEF Infra to attract investors from India and abroad, particularly Middle East and Europe," KTR explained.
 
 "With this plant we will be able to do in four to six months what takes 24 months to construct," Kottikollon said, pointing out the park will have the capacity to accommodate nearly 60-70 ancilliary industries related to construction with 180-200 units of vendors, suppliers and partners. He said the company zeroed in on Telangana due to its proactive leadership, ideal geographical location and is already in talks with a few IT park developers for projects in Hyderabad.
 
 
