GURUGRAM: Manohar Lal   on Sunday inaugurated projects worth Rs 340 crore in the city, including the   and  . However, instead of the afternoon, when the inaugurations were scheduled, the CM did the honours at around 7pm, after attending other functions, as earlier in the day, he had been delayed by a late invite to attend the PM’s function in UP.

 He also gave his go- ahead to a number of infrastructural projects, including renovation of Atul Kataria Chowk, six sewage treat-ment plants, Badshapur drain beautification, multilevel parking at Sector 29, a double storey women’s hostel in Sector 14 college, among others.
 
 Speaking at an event — Buddhijeevi Sangoshti — in Gurugram at around 6pm, the CM lauded the work done by the   government for betterment of people of this country. He said the Centre has ushered change in the country by introducing different development schemes. 
 
 State BJP president  , MP Rao Inderjit Singh, MLAs and senior district officials were also present at the event.
 
 “Modi government’s pro-people policies are so popular, other countries are emulating them,” he said. 
 
 Khattar told the audience it was impossible to talk about all policies in one event, and therefore stressed on Beti Bachao Beti Padhao, Jeewan Jyoti, Skill India and Ujjwal schemes.
 
 Referring to demonetisation, which took place in 2016, and implementation of GST, Khattar said though people faced initial hurdles, they soon realised it was for their own benefit. 
 
 Lauding the PM, Rao Inderjit Singh said, “Following PM Modi’s request, three lakh people have given up subsidies on their LPG cylinders, allowing the government to provide cylinders to women in villages, who till then were using wood and kerosene as fuel.”
 
  Khattar also spoke of work being done by the state government for Gurugram’s betterment. He said three projects — laying an optical fibre network in the city, opening an incident command centre for which a Rs 65 crore tender has been issued, and a Rs 60 crore CCTV project, whose detailed project report will be presented next month — have been cleared.
 
 “Gurugram will not just become smart, but the smartest city,” Khattar said. 
 
 
