NEW DELHI: A furious   tweeted today asking whether Indians are living in a Banana Republic, considering "a journalist is hauled up for reporting alleged truth about malfunctioning & misuse of Aadhar."

 
 The actor-turned-parliamentarian, who belongs to the ruling  , minced no words slamming what he called the "politics of vendetta", after the Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI) yesterday lodged an FIR naming four people, including 
  for breaking the news about the latest alleged  .
 
 
 
 
 Sinha may like to know that India last year slipped three places to 136th in the World Press Freedom Index of 180 nations, compiled by 'Reporters Without Borders'.
 
 Last week, 
  saying that its reporter was sold all   data available with UIDAI by a WhatsApp group for a paltry Rs 500. The reporter was given an ID and a password, which enabled her to access details of any Aadhaar number.
 
 With its reputation on the line, the UIDAI, the world's largest biometric identity card scheme, first denied this could happen and then said the "case appears to be an instance of misuse."
 
 When it filed the FIR on Sunday, it said it respects freedom of press, adding that it was duty bound to name everyone involved in the incident, including the reporter.
 
 "It does not mean that those who are named in the report are necessarily guilty," the authority said.
 
 That explanation didn't wash with the BJP's Sinha.
 
 "A journalist is hauled up for reporting alleged truth about malfunctioning & misuse of Aadhar. Are we living in a Banana Republic? What kind of "justice" is this? Is there only politics of vendetta? Even public is being victimised for coming out honestly for society & the nation," tweeted Sinha.
 
  
  
 
 The Editors Guild of India condemned UIDAI's action, saying it was designed to "browbeat a journalist." And Sinha congratulated the Guild for taking this stand on the issue.
 
 "I congratulate the   for strongly taking up this matter & going deep into this. Hope wish and pray that genuine authorities in the Govt. and the respected SC in particular will take notice & come out with swift corrective measures. Satyamevajayate! Jai Hind!," said Sinha in a second tweet.
 
  
  
 
 The Press Club of India, the Indian Women's Press Corps and Press Association too strongly objected to and condemned the FIR registration against a reporter and newspaper.
 
 "Rather than addressing the loopholes which would actually ensure safety and security of the data and allay the general concerns about this, the UIDAI has chosen to persecute those whose actions appear to have been only in public interest," read a statement issued by the journalists' bodies collectively. 
 
 
 
