GURUGRAM: The counsel for  , which is probing the Class II boy’s murder in a city school, on Friday countered contentions of the accused’s lawyer that the   ( ) should have considered other evidence added to the chargesheet by the central investigating agency later.

 Counsel for the accused, Tanvir Ahmad Mir, had challenged the board’s decision to treat the teenager as an  , contending that the board passed the order only on the basis of the psychological and social investigation report. However, countering Mir’s arguments, the CBI counsel told the court that this was a unique case, in which both the accused and the victim were juveniles. 
 
 Supporting the juvenile board’s decision, he said the Class XI student was the only accused in the case and no one else — a child or an adult — had coerced him to commit the crime.
 
 He also contended that rights of the seven-year-old boy who was fatally attacked on the school campus should also be taken into account by the court before pronouncing any order. He said the murdered boy was a “small child”, was not on a par with the accused and didn’t even belong to the same age group.
 
 The lawyers were responding to one of the three applications filed by the accused’s father in the court. Sessions judge Jasbir Singh Kundu heard only one application on Friday and reserved arguments on other two applications for May 5.
 
 Sushil Tekriwal, counsel for the murdered boy’s father, said an increasing number of juvenile crimes paved way for the new JJ Act. 
 
 According to him, it has been made mandatory to try juveniles between 16 and 18 as adults with certain caveats and the juvenile board passed “a reasoned order which cannot be faulted”. 
 
 Tekriwal claimed that even considering psychological assessment report is not mandatory in the law. “This juvenile is a threat to the society. His appeal should be dismissed,” he said.
 
 The arguments on two other applications challenging the accused’s custody by the CBI, and that of obtaining his fingerprints are yet to be heard by the court.
 
 
