HYDERABAD: A first additional metropolitan sessions judge of Hyderabad and two advocates were arrested by anti-corruption bureau (ACB) sleuths for accepting 7.5 lakh bribe from the family of an engineering student to grant bail. Acting on high court orders,   registered a bribery case against the accused and raided their homes late on Thursday before carrying out arrests. 

 In November 2017, advocate T Sriranga Rao complained to the high court against first additional metropolitan sessions judge, Nampally, S Radhakrishna Murthy, alleging the judge was indulging in corruption in granting bail and passing judgments. 
 
 The complainant also alleged the judge accepted 7.5 lakh bribe through advocates for granting bail to a student, M Dattu, who was arrested under NDPS Act at Ameerpet excise police station. 
 
 Dattu's mother had to sell her gold jewellery to mobilise funds for the bribe, the ACB chargesheet stated. This is the third arrest of a judge by ACB in recent past on high court order. 
 
 The high court had ordered an internal inquiry headed by the metropolitan sessions judge, Hyderabad, and referred the matter to ACB. 
 
 After the probe, the high court directed ACB to register a case against the judge, S Radhakrishna Murthy.
 
 As per orders, ACB registered a case of criminal misconduct against S Radhakrishna Murthy and two advocates,   and G Satish Kumar under Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988, on April 11.
 
 After registration of case, ACB obtained search warrants and conducted searches at houses of the judge at Alwal on Thursday night.
 
 During searches, ACB sleuths found incriminating evidence, including cell phones used by accused to communicate with each another. 
 
 During investigation, ACB officials found advocates K Srinivasa Rao and G Satish Kumar accepted bribe in two instalments on behalf of the judge on October 31, 2017, to grant bail to M Tech student, M Dattu. After receiving bribe money, the judge granted bail to Dattu on November 1, 2017.
 
 The judge and the two advocates were produced in court and they were sent in judicial remand till April 26. This is the third arrest of a judge by ACB on high court orders in a month. 
 
 
