Surat: Riddhi Patel, a housewife from Varachha delivered a baby girl at the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC)-run SMIMER hospital. The next day, a staff nurse told her about a baby found abandoned by the police needing milk. Riddhi immediately rushed to donate her milk at the Yashoda milk bank run by the hospital.  Riddhi is not a one-off case. The success of SMIMER’s Yashoda Milk bank lies in lactating mothers admitted to the hospital. The majority of women who give birth have been donating milk to feed babies without mothers.  On average, five lactating mothers donate around 250ml of milk every day, or about 90 litres a year. Project Yashoda started in the city in 2008-09, to collect mothers’ milk for newborn babies, and has grown by leaps and bounds. The project was started with donations by just a dozen lactating women, has seen more than 2,000 mothers donating milk a year. Neha Shah (name changed) is a banking executive and was invited by the paediatric association to participate in a milk donation camp. She was reluctant initially, but when she heard that her milk would save newborn babies, she went to the camp and donated milk. “I remember my breast milk going to waste when my boy’s tummy was full. I would initially just let it go. After attending the milk donation camp, I realised the value of mother’s milk. I then made it a point to regularly go to SMIMER hospital to donate my milk,” said Neha. Dr Poonan Singh, who is in charge of the Yashoda Milk Bank at SMIMER hospital, said, “Most of our milk comes from lactating mothers at our hospital. The Surat Paediatric Association and other NGOs organise three or four camps a year where we get an average of 60 women donating milk. This way, we get around 90 litres of mother’s milk a year, to feed toddlers who have either lost their mothers or were abandoned.” “You can donate blood every three months, but mother’s milk can be donated every day. Our members are ready, they only need basic facilities like transport and they will willingly do the work every day if needed,” said Rashmika Patel, president of the Umiya Mahila Mandal, who is actively involved in organizing the milk donation drive.