CHENNAI: Yet another attempt to import sand from abroad to   has hit A road block. A vessel carrying 58,616 metric tonnes of river sand from   to   has been diverted to Mangalore after it failed to get the statutory clearances to offload the sand.

 Official sources with the V O Chidambaranar Port at Tuticorin said the importer has decided to shift the consignment to the   at Karnataka. "We have received a letter from the importer on Friday that he wants to move the vessel to Mangalore. So, it would be diverted to the new destination," a port official told TOI. 
 
 The vessel, MV  , arrived at the Tuticorin on the midnight of January 3. It was at the anchorage awaiting clearances for offloading the consignment, sources said. "The port did not have any issues with the import, but necessary clearances must be given by the state government," another official said adding that the ship would not have obtained it. "The vessel would depart from the anchorage and reach the New Mangalore Port in two days," the port official added. It is learnt that a Chennai-based agency has sourced the sand from Malaysia.
 
 
  
 
 The development comes three months after an unsuccessful attempt by a Pudukottai-based private firm to import sand from overseas was stone-walled with the sand lying idle in the yards of the V O Chidambaranar Port at Tuticorin. Though the vessel   from Malaysia arrived and offloaded the sand in October last year, it is stuck at the port in the wake of failure to obtain the mandatory clearance from the state government. The importer has taken up the issue with Madras high court.
 
 Ramaprabhu, honorary secretary of the Builders' Association of India's Southern Centre, Chennai said that diversion of the vessel with river sand meant for Tamil Nadu was a setback for the construction sector. "The current cost of per cubic feet of sand is sold at Rs 150. Still, we cannot get quality sand. Against this backdrop, importing sand is the only viable solution because the key construction material can be imported at a cost of Rs 100 per cubic feet from aboard," he said. 
 
 Noting the guidelines by the government on importing sand, he said, "As per the new guidelines, imported sand could be sold only to the PWD. This would discourage importers from sourcing sand from abroad."
 
 On a daily basis, Tamil Nadu requires about 20,000 loads of sand, of which the demand for Chennai and peripheries alone accounts for 7,500. Only 2500 to 3000 loads of sand, however, is currently scooped from 14 sand quarries in the state.
 
 
 
