Ghaziabad: The GDA has roped in   ( ) to make a comprehensive plan on   management in the city. 

 CRRI officials on Wednesday met GDA vice-chairperson Ritu Maheshwari and discussed the modalities, prior to signing an agreement.
 
 “A meeting was held with CRRI officials, who have been roped in by GDA, to make a plan on traffic management in the city” said Maheshwari. “It will entail long-term and short-term plans, in which CRRI is expected to suggest measures on road design at vital crossings, among others, for a period of 20 years,” she added.
 
 CRRI has asked for a sum of Rs 1.17 crore for its services, but GDA wants the work to be done for less than a crore. “We have apprised CRRI officials of our inability to pay Rs 1.17 crore, and hope that a mutually agreeable sum will be finalised, and in a week’s time, an agreement with CRRI can be signed,” she further said. As per understanding, CRRI will be given nine months to complete the work, which will include both long- and short- term plans, and cover the whole of  , including Modinagar, Loni and Muradnagar.
 
 As per a 2017 report, Ghaziabad’s   are the state’s most unsafe, second only to Lucknow in terms of number of accidents. In 2017, 385 people were killed in 930 accidents across the city. Apart from traffic rule violations, faulty road design is one of the main reasons behind the rise in road accidents.
 
 Kapil Mehta, a former member of  , said, “There are over a dozen blind spots, like the notorious Mohan Nagar crossing, which are prone to traffic jams and accidents. This is largely because of faulty road design.”
 
 The dark spots identified within city limits include the Karhera cut, Mohan Nagar roundabout, Sikri cut, ALT Chowk, Sewanagar, Gang Nahar road, Vasundhara traffic signal, Hapur Chungi, Loni tri-section, Bhowpura roundabout, Lal Kuan and Kala Patthar road. “These black spots alone account for 25% of total road accidents in the city,” said Mehta. Broken roads, damaged dividers, illegal cuts, absence of traffic signals and zebra crossings at various crossings, along with faulty road designs, are together attributed for accidents at these spots.
 
 
