 hasn’t been to   for about a year and a half. But her long absence, ever since she fell ill during a roadshow in Varanasi in August 2016, appears to have done little to deter her supporters in the Nehru-Gandhi bastion.

 After   Vadra recently cleared the air saying her mother would contest from Rae Bareli in 2019, two women holding fort for her in the constituency said a massive win awaits Gandhi, who recently passed on the party presidency to her son Rahul.
 
 “Unlike 2014, when we did not have a   MLA in Rae Bareli or a Nagar Palika chairman, this time we have both,” said Aditi Singh, who won the Rae Bareli seat in the 2017 assembly polls, sitting beside Purnima Shrivastava, who won the Rae Bareli Nagar Palika chairman election for the Congress in December.
 
 “Sonia ji had won with record number of votes in 2014 and she will win by a bigger margin this time. People love her as a maternal figure here,” Singh said.
 
 Although Gandhi has not been able to visit the constituency, she and her daughter Priyanka Gandhi Vadra have been closely monitoring the constituency, according to Singh. “Priyanka ji is in touch with me,” she said.
 
 But Congress leaders know BJP will target Rae Bareli this time.
 
 A senior BJP leader in UP, who is tasked with the party’s campaign in Rae Bareli, told ET that in 2014, the party did not aggressively target this seat but had focused on Amethi.
 
 “A strong political candidate is needed in Rae Bareli against Sonia Gandhi. Last time, our candidate there was declared very late and the choice was lawyer Anil Agarwal, who could not match Gandhi’s appeal. Gandhi increased her votes from 4.81 lakh in 2009 to 5.26 lakh in 2014,” the BJP leader said on condition of anonymity.
 
 “This time, however, the BJP will ensure there is a tough fight. In all our state government and central schemes, Rae Bareli is being focused upon to make people realise the BJP has worked for them rather than their MP,” the BJP leader said.
 
 The Congress, however, maintains that the   government at the Centre has consciously let projects in Sonia Gandhi’s constituency rot due to political rivalry. A dilapidated and locked OPD building of an upcoming AIIMS in Rae Bareli is symbolic of this neglect, according to the Congress. ET found that high shrubs have grown around the OPD building while an unpaved road leads to the main hospital site where the construction is still to start though the project was approved by UPA-II.
 
 “In November, when a major blast happened in the NTPC plant in Rae Bareli and 22 people died, the scores of injured had to be rushed to the local hospital. Don’t we need an AIIMS?” asked Singh. Rahul Gandhi had rushed to Rae Bareli then to meet the injured as his mother was unwell, leaving his Gujarat campaign midway. Congress leaders question why none of the top BJP leaders turned up.
 
 UP Congress spokesman, Akhilesh Pratap Singh, pointed out that Gorakhpur AIIMS is coming up in record time and the PM praised health minister JP Nadda for an AIIMS in HP recently.
 
 “What crime has Rae Bareli done?” he asked. The BJP holds three of the six assembly constituencies in Rae Bareli now against two by the Congress but Sonia Gandhi remains immensely popular in the rural-dominated constituency with a strong sentimental recall value.
 
 “She is not well. She has even stepped down as Congress president to give way to Rahul Gandhi. Her whole life is full of sacrifice,” said Umena Devi in Barwaripur village, reminiscing how her whole family has voted for the Congress since the days Indira Gandhi was their MP.
 
