Bengaluru: Aiming to motivate citizens to choose healthier lives,   held the sixth edition of its   event at Kanteerava Stadium on Sunday.

 The  , flagged off by Kannada actors   and Dhananjay, along with Max Bupa MD and CEO Ashish Mehrotra, had about 7,500 Bengalureans, including walking communities, health enthusiasts, schoolchildren and senior citizens in attendance for both categories: the 5km and 2km walks.
 
 Shivarajkumar, whose name is associated with multiple social and health causes, said: “Nowadays, people are busier than ever and we have confused our priorities. With work schedules and social networking taking centre stage, health is often ignored. I’ve always maintained that if nothing else, people should walk for an hour every day and even find excuses to walk more to improve their health, breaking away from their sedentary lifestyle.”
 
 Mehrotra said, “We came back to the city after seeing immense enthusiasm from Bengalureans last year. We hope Max Bupa Walk for Health inspires not just Bengaluru, but the entire nation to take a conscious step towards a healthier lifestyle.”
 
 Over the last five years, the initiative has garnered support from actors/sportspersons Akshay Kumar, Kangana Ranaut, Saif Ali Khan, Sania Mirza, Shilpa Shetty, Sonam Kapoor, Anupam Kher, Anurag Kashyap, Kunal Kapoor and minister Smriti Irani, among others. Last year, Radhika Pandit and Anju Bobby George flagged off the walk in Bengaluru.
 
 “Staying fit doesn’t require spending hours in the gym or following a starvation diet. Fitness is all about eating right with the right amount of workout. I personally believe walking is one of the most convenient forms of exercise, though its result may not be visible right away. But it is a complete workout in itself,” Dhananjay said.
 
 Apart from walks, there was plenty of other action at the walkathon, including fitness sessions, free health check-ups and live performances. Children could also meet cartoon characters like Shiva and Ninja. Walkers participated in on-the-spot contests and won exciting prizes. A host of brands such as Green Sole, Nickelodeon, GoQii, FitPass and BookMyShow also joined the initiative.
 
 
