GURGAON: A new leachate dumping site has come up in the  , about 100 metres from the defunct   (WTP). It is feared that it will pollute groundwater of South Delhi, Gurgaon and Faridabad. On Thursday, a TOI team visited the area and found that leachate is being transported from the WTP and illegally dumped in the Aravali forest. 

 There were several small pools of leachate, and a 50m-stretch of un-metalled road soaked with leachate. Tyre marks of tankers, presumably used to carry the toxic waste, leading to the dumping site from the WTP could also be seen. Villagers said leachate is transported every morning and dumped in the forest, as there’s nobody to keep a watch. “Tankers generally arrive in the morning to dump the foul-smelling sludge. We don’t know why it’s dumped here, but it’s been happening for the last two months. We don’t go there now because of the stink,” said Satender, a villager who had come over to the forest to graze cattle. 
 
 Environmental activist Vivek Kamboj, who had filed a petition before National Green Tribunal (NGT) in 2016 after a leachate pond came up right behind the WTP, demanding that it be relocated away from the Aravalis, called the   WTP a major environmental hazard. “It is clearly an attempt to hide the fact that the authorities have not been able to manage the leachate coming out of the defunct plant. To prevent the leachate from flowing out of the plant, they are dumping it illegally in the forest. Such grave environmental violations not only pollute groundwater, but can also lead to death of wild animals if they consume it,” he told TOI. 
 
 
  
  
 In Septmeber 2017, the worst fears of environmental activists — that leachate from the defunct Bandhwari WTP would contaminate groundwater — came true, when Central Pollution Control Board submitted a report in the National Green Tribunal (NGT), stating that groundwater in Mangar and Bandhwari had become “unfit for drinking”. Moreover, as per a CPCB study on aquifers in the Aravalis, Bandhwari is sitting on an aquifer that recharges groundwater of Gurgaon, Faridabad and Delhi. “There is a need to understand that Bandhwari is located on the border of Gurgaon and Faridabad. Delhi is also very close. Instead of taking urgent steps to prevent pollution from spreading, authorities themselves are polluting the aquifer. Criminal action should be taken against all those who are involved in this grave environmental violation,” said Kamboj. 
 
 Rajesh Kurup, general manager of EcoGreen Energy (the private company recently hired to manage the plant), said, “We’re unaware of such incidents. We’re already setting up a leachate treatment plant which is at an advanced stage. All leachate produced shall be utilised within it. It could have been done by unauthorised waste transporters, who might have emptied their trucks in the area.” Joint commissioner of MCG Y S Gupta, though, assured immediate action. “The corporation is serious about any such environmental damage. We will immediately conduct an inspection and take action to remove the leachate from the area. Strict action will be taken against offenders,” he said.
 
 
