Nagpur: Despite failure of power distribution franchisee model in the state, MSEDCL has once again decided to appoint franchisees for three urban areas - Akola, Malegaon and Mumbra-Shil-Kalwa. Three more cities including Aurangabad are in the pipeline. The previous Congress-NCP government had appointed franchisees in Nagpur, Bhiwandi, Aurangabad and Jalgaon. Out of these, companies managing Aurangabad (GTL) and Jalgaon (Crompton Greaves) had to be ousted because of non-payment of MSEDCL bills. Maharashtra is not the only state where franchisee model has failed. Madhya Pradesh had appointed franchisees for Gwalior, Sagar and Ujjain. While Essel Utilities (franchisee for Nagpur) was unable to take over Gwalior, its contract was terminated in Sagar and Ujjain due to poor service. The franchisee model made a comeback in Rajasthan where Kota, Bharatpur, Ajmer and Bikaner were handed over to private companies. Under the franchisee model, private company buys power from the state discom and sells it to consumers. Tariff is same as that of discom. The franchisee operates the distribution network, collects bills and cracks down on power pilferers and defaulters. The company is supposed to invest in the distribution network but usually there is no stipulation on the amount. The biggest disadvantage of franchisee model is that the cities managed by private firms do not get funds from central government to upgrade power distribution network. This has happened in case of Nagpur where state energy ministry has refused to sanction Integrated Power Development Scheme (IPDS) and Smart City funds for city’s three divisions under franchisee SNDL. The franchisee experience in the state has been extremely negative. MSEDCL had appointed GTL as the power franchisee for Aurangabad in May 2011. Its contract was terminated in November 2014 due to persistent non-payment of MSEDCL power bills. The dues had mounted to over Rs 150 crore when the contract was terminated. Crompton Greaves had been appointed as Jalgaon franchisee in May 2011. It was ousted in August 2015 when its dues mounted to over Rs 100 crore. The performance of Nagpur franchisee SNDL, a subsidiary of Essel Utilities, leaves much to be desired. Its dues to MSEDCL are consistently over Rs 100 crore. While it has been able to reduce distribution losses, it has failed to collect bills from thousands of consumers leading to a huge loss. A retired MSEDCL officer on condition of anonymity said that GTL and Crompton Greaves had overbid and soon realized their revenue projections were too optimistic. “After so many failures, you can expect companies to quote realistic revenue. MSEDCL may ease conditions to make bids more attractive,” he added. Sharad Patil, president of Jan Manch, slammed the move. “Power and water are basic necessities and in a welfare state they should not be handed over to private hands. Motive of private companies is only profit and consumer service takes a backseat,” he said.  The tender for franchisees for Akola, Malegaon and Mumbra-Shil-Kalwa was floated on February 4 and the last date for sale bids is February 20. The last date of submission has not been announced. A pre-bid meeting of the interested companies would be held before that.