Nagpur: An idea, a design or an invention that springs out from the intellect is vital for humankind to progress and flourish. Hence, it becomes important to protect  , said Sandhya Maniyar (Thakker), a legal adviser, specializing in infringement cases. 

 She was talking at a daylong national seminar on ‘Indian perspective of infringement of intellectual property (IP)’ in which she highlighted the importance of IP protection. The seminar was organized by CENACLE, under the aegis of Dr Madhukarrao Wasnik PWS Arts and Commerce College, Kamptee Road, on Wednesday.
 
 The seminar was inaugurated by Shrikant Komawar, principal of Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar College of Law. He spoke in brief about its importance and enlightened the audience with the ways in which the IP can be secured. 
 
 “A technological invention or an idea gets patent under the inventor’s name while the authors and those in literary or visual art fields like books and movies can get a copyright of their work. There are also industrial design patents and geographical indications which deal with a more selective IPs,” Komawar added.
 
 Talking about the intricacies of filing an application, Thakker said to acquire a patent, the governing body primarily runs a worldwide search for a similar document. Even though the patent is country-specific, this search is done to avoid global infringement.
 
 After the acceptance of application, an article mentioning the idea and its details is published in Indian Gazette after 18 months, which is open to challenge. One can also get a provisional patent or copyright in case the idea is not fully developed and needs more time to mature, she said.
 
 Thakker gave details of repercussions of infringement on IP. She said, “There are almost 2.5 lakh patents required to launch a simple mobile phone. Naturally, there have been various cases in the past involving technological giants which got dragged in infringement cases. The accusations, if proven right, not only cause a huge dent in the bank balance of the accused but also takes a toll on its reputation,” she said.
 
 (Reporting by Bhagyashree Kashyap)
 
 
