NAGPUR: The nine-day football tournament of the  , to be played under lights from May 7 to 15, will carry a handsome prize money of Rs 2.64 lakh. The meet will be played at the South East Central Railway Stadium, Motibagh.

 
 A brainchild of Union minister  , Khasdar Krida Mahotsav is country’s first multisport grass root festival which provides a competition format for the players of Nagpur.
 
 The actual competition of the 20-day sporting extravaganza with 20 various sports disciplines to be conducted across 30 different venues will begin with football and the matches will be conducted by   (NDFA).
 
 “All the football matches in the sports festival will be played in a knock-out format and 12 top teams, mostly from the Elite division, will vie for the honours,” informed president of NDFA Haresh Vora while briefing the media here on Sunday.
 
 Vora added, “All the 10 Elite division teams and the Super Division runner-up team of NDFA’s annual league along with a combined Nagpur district team of U-19 players will be part of football event.”
 
 The participating teams include South East Central Railway, Rabbani Club Kamptee, Nagpur Police, Ansar Sporting Club Kamptee, Young Muslim Football Club, Nagpur Academy, Qidwai Sports Club, Rahul Sankrutyayan Sporting Club, Guards Regimental Centre Kamptee, Big Ben Sporting Club, Nagpur Blues Football Club and Nagpur District U-19 team.
 
 The champion team will take home a cash prize of 1 Lakh while the runner-up wins 75,000 and team finishing third will be richer by 51,000. All the three podium finishers will also be given attractive trophies too and the players of the top three teams will be given medals. 
 
 In addition, many cash prizes will be given to the individual performers including player of the tournament (11,000 cash), best goalkeeper (5,000), while best player from the losing finalist, best defender, forward and best midfielder will get 2,500 each. 
 
 
 
 The kho-kho tournament of Khasdar Krida Mahotsav will be held at the New English High School ground, Congress Nagar from May 7 to 10. The four-day tourney will be held in two categories – Under-14 boys and girls and seniors. Around 32 teams and 400 players will compete for the top honours.
 
 The champions will receive a cash prize of Rs 11,000, while the runners-up will collect Rs 7,000. The winners of the U-14 category will pocket Rs 7,000. The runners-up will collect Rs 5,000, while the third-place team will bag Rs 3,500, informed convenor of the tournament  . The matches will be played under floodlights. 
 
 
 
