In the latest episode,   is having dinner with his parents, Aunt   and uncle  . While   is worried about the past, she is also happy about the present life, in which she and Karthik have gained many relationships. 

 In front of everyone, Azhagar puts forth a request to Karthik to help him in conducting the Jeeva-Revathy marriage in a grand manner without any problems. Karthik is indirectly forced to accept Azhagar’s request.
 
 Azhagar discloses that, even he was not happy to reveal the truth about Karthik’s birth to him. Azhagar advises Karthik to keep his birth secrets with himself. Or else,   might start her plans to evict him from the house. Azhagar reiterates that, no one including him are against Karthik. He just wants his daughter Revathy’s marriage to happen with   peacefully.
 
 In the meantime   tries to call   and as he is not reachable on call, she becomes tensed. Coincidentally, Ramya and   enter Sneha’s room. Ramya brings food and and asks Sneha to have it. Sneha argues as to why, Ramya has kept her locked alone in the room,
 
 Ramya says, Sneha is kept locked in the room, in order to protect her from doing mistake. Sneha asks, what is wrong in speaking with Arjun. Ramya says, she doesn’t like him and hence wants Sneha to snap all ties with him. In between, Dileep too jumps in and starts advising to Sneha, which makes her very angry.
 
 When Ramya again asks Sneha to take food, she throws the food. Ramya becomes very angry and scolds Sneha and slaps very harshly.
 
 Andal and Azhagar invite Jeeva and openly tell about the love life between Revathy and Karthik to Jeeva. Jeeva tells, he understands the mindset or Revathy and the relation between Karthik and Revathy in the right way. Hence, Jeeva says, he is ready to forgive Revathy and accept her.
 
 Azhagar calls Revathy and conveys the message that, he has conveyed all the facts to Jeeva and he has understood everything. Revathy is frustrated and shocked. Mr and Mrs Azhagar move away from there. After sometime, Jeeva tries to get close with Revathy.
 
