LUDHIANA: Police have busted a gang of conmen who duped different banks of crores by taking two-wheeler loans on fake IDs including Aadhar card, driving license, voter card and PAN cards. The accused would steal pictures from Facebook and get the vehicles financed by banks. As soon as they got the vehicles on a small down payment, they would sell them. The gang worked in collusion with two bank employees, who are at large. 

 Over the past one and a half years, police said, the accused have bought and sold more than 150 vehicles. Of these, police have recovered 37 scooters and motorcycles.
 
 The arrested accused have been identified as   of Durga Puri, Haibowal, Gagandeep Singh of Singhpura Mohalla, Robin Bajaj of Urban Estate, Dugri and Jaswinder Singh of Daba Colony, Shimlapuri.
 
 Those who are at large are Rajiv Kumar, the kingping and resident of Khud Mohalla, Pardeep Garg of Indistrial Area-A, Prince of Jaswant Nagar and Rahul Bagga of Amritsar. Pardeep Garg and Rahul Bagga are employees of HDFC bank, Mall road branch. 
 
 Police commisssioner R N Dhoke said the accused used to buy vehicles from Laxmi TVS agency, Suffiyan chowk, Alliance Auto Mobiles Jodhewal chowk, Laxmi TVS, Ferozepur road and Simran  , Chandigarh road using fake documents. They got the vehicles financed from HDFC bank and   companies, including   and Capital Finance and they used to pay Rs 10,000 in advance. Immediately after getting the vehicle, the accused would sell them for Rs 30,000 to Rs 35,000.
 
 The official said a case has been registered under sections 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property), 465 (punishment for forgery), 467 (forgery of valuable security, will) 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating) and 471 (using as genuine a forged document) and 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC against the accused at PAU police station.
 
 Police said the accused used to tell people they sold the vehicles to that they were unable to pay the loan and were therefore, selling the vehicle. Dhoke said vehicles could be recovered after the arrest of Rajiv Kumar and that more names could come up in the course of investigation. 
 
 The police commissioner said they have not recovered a registration certificate (RC) from the accused. 
 
 
