BHOPAL: Platform number 1 of Bhopal railway station will soon have an incinerator for safe disposal of used sanitary napkins. This move comes a few days after the station authorities installed a vending machine for   at the station. 

 As per railway officials, within three days, around 2,000 sanitary napkins were withdrawn from the vending machine. Divisional railways manager   said, "Surprisingly, response of female passengers has been unexpected. Even without any advertising, a large number of women have availed the facility. However, the point of concern now is the used sanitary napkins that women usually throw either out in the open or dump them in a polythene bag on railway tracks. It is a big concern for hygiene and cleanliness at railway station." "To properly dispose of the napkins, we have decided to install an incinerator machine," said Chaudhary. "We have obtained the costing and the machine will be installed within a month. We have decided to install it in the female waiting room on platform 1, so that women don't feel awkward while using it in public," he added.
 
 Subodh Kulkarni, the project in-charge, said, "The machine will cost around Rs 24, 000. Instead of burning napkins, it will incinerate those in around 480-degree Celsius temperature. A single machine can incinerate around 300 such sanitary napkins a day." "The plant will emit just one gram ash after incinerating 25 napkins which will be released in the ash tray, while gas will be emitted through aluminium pipe which will be left open in the air," added Kulkarni.
 
 Railway officials said, based on the response, another incinerator will be installed at Platform-6 along with sanitary napkin vending machine. Another will be installed at   railway station.
 
 A senior railway officer on condition of anonymity said, "Railway is planning to take this machine to wash rooms of railway coaches. Once the project is successful, division will take it to coach wash rooms. As part of pilot project, it will be installed in one rake and later on, in others."
 
 
