GURUGRAM: A 45-year-old man has been awarded 20 years’ rigorous imprisonment for raping a nine-year-old child of his neighbourhood in Rewari’s Rampura area, in an “exemplary” verdict that, the court said, was aimed at sending across a strong message to rogue elements in society. 

 Special judge-cum-additional sessions judge, Rewari, Phalit Sharma pronounced Subhash, a resident of Rampura, guilty of rape and criminal intimidation while rejecting the convict’s plea for mercy and leniency considering his age. Passing the verdict, the court stated that it could not award a death sentence to the convict though practically he deserved it for the kind of sin he had committed. An exemplary sentence is required to let such a convict retrospect on a day-to-day basis that nothing could be worse than the offence he has been found guilty of, the court observed. 
 
 “And where the victim is a helpless innocent child, it leaves behind a traumatic experience. Such a case needs to be dealt with sternly and severely,” the court said.
 
 Subhash had raped the minor girl, a Class V student, in April 2017 when she went to his shop in the neighbourhood to buy chocolates. He had taken the girl inside a room and raped her. He had also warned her of consequences if she disclosed it to anyone.
 
 The statement of the girl who also identified the accused in court, medical report, statements of witnesses and police investigation report helped nail the man.
 
 In its order passed on Monday, the court observed that in our society, a neighbour was the one who was expected to be the most dependable, reliable and socially acceptable. In case of any need, a neighbour comes for help even before relatives or other family members can arrive. If a stranger does any wrong with a minor child, situation is different. But where a neighbour, a married man, sexually exploits his daughter-like child, the situation becomes worse, the court further added. “A person, having animal-like nature, who has no respect, regard and concern for a child having faith in him like she has in her father, does not deserve any mercy, especially when child abuse cases are on the rise,” the court order read.
 
 Sources said the gruesome assault on the child came to light on April 19, 2017, after she complained of pain and burning sensation in her private parts, two days after the rape. Her parents took her to hospital, where doctors examined the girl and confirmed sexual abuse. When asked, the minor girl told her parents that she was scared as the shop owner had warned her against telling it to anyone. 
 
 Based on the parents’ complaint, an FIR was filed against Subhash under Section 6 of the POCSO Act (sexual assault) and 506 of the IPC (criminal intimidation) at the women police station in Rewari the same day. Subhash was arrested on April 20, 2017.
 
 
