Cheeks sunburnt, eyes fixed on their soiled sneakers and clad in black T-shirts, the colour of coal deposits that surround their hometown, ten students from Chandrapur-five of whom famously summitted Mt   recently and five of whom almost did-told journalists on Wednesday the story of their snowy expedition. 

 Hailing from ashram schools (state-run residential schools for tribals) in the plains of Borada, Dewada and Jeevti, these tribal youth, aged 18-21, had been selected under the 'Mission Shaurya' initiative of the Maharashtra Tribal Development Department and the Chandrapur Collectorate to scale the world's highest mountain. "His watch was still shining," said  , 18, recalling a dead body he passed on his way to the summit. He was among the first to reach the summit at 3.10am on May 16, along with Umakant Madavi. They were followed by Pramesh Ale and Manisha Dhuvre. Vikas Soyam reached the top the next day.
 
 The rest could not make it for lack of weather clearance.  , for instance, was recalled at the last stage on her climb to the summit due to a medical emergency. "I cried... but I feel like the entire experience itself was a bigger summit in itself," she said.
 
 The students returned to Mumbai late on Tuesday night. A rigorous training of 18 months preceded their mission. In July 2017, sixty students from three ashram schools were screened on the basis of their interest and love of outdoor activities. Of these, 45 were sent to a centre in Wardha for foundation training, where they underwent various tests. Soon, 25 were selected and sent to Bhongir in Hyderabad for a five-day rock climbing course and later, 18 were shortlisted for a basic mountaineering course at Darjeeling, where they were certified and graded.
 
 Of them, 13 A-graders were selected for the 12-day winter mountaineering course at Leh in January, where they walked in snow and were imparted altitude training. "These situations call for mental strength in addition to physical fitness," said Shekhar Babu, leader of the expedition. "The training prepped us for the inevitable sights of dead bodies and accidents not only by showing various movies on the expedition but also by simulating weather conditions. At every stage of the training, parents' consent was sought."
 
 Admitting that the students were hardwired by circumstance to deal with hardship, manager-cum-trainer Bimla Negi Deoskar, who accompanied the team, said none of them had really heard of Mt Everest before. Accompanied by support staff, a manager, 15 Sherpas and an expert doctor, the group of ten-kitted out in suits, crampons, woollen caps, sunglasses and other special equipment-left for their mission to Kathmandu on April 11 and reached   on April 20. The expedition involves five stages from this point at 5,900m.
 
 The team moved to the steep North Col Camp at 7,300m to spend one night on external oxygen. It lies beyond what is called the death zone. Here, "you can see sky above and sky below", said Babu, referring to the "ladder" lying over a yawning crevasse on either side of which is a 10,000 ft drop.
 
 The team later moved to Camp 2, which is an open, exposed steep area with gushing cold winds, and later to Camp 3, which is the last camp before the summit. The team was expected to reach the summit at 7.00 am, but the department got the victory call at 3.10am. The students will be felicitated by governor   at Raj Bhavan on Thursday and by CM Devendra Fadnavis on June 1. Meanwhile, dealing with the media, they are learning, is its own adventure. "How did you come down?" a TV reporter asked one of the boys. "The way we went up," came the reply.
 
 
