JAIPUR: The village does first come as a surprise. Swanky roads, regular signages and covered drains usher one to the small village of Dhankya, 45km from Jaipur. But   is not just another village. As the birth place of BJP ideologue and founder,  , it has over the past years seen a flurry of developmental work. Chief minister   has herself visited the village thrice in her current term.

 But this gloss of development hides things that may escape a normal visitor. The village is starved of groundwater. Mornings see hectic activity as men make their way to the nearest urban centre in search of a job, returning only after sunset. Agriculture is a thing of the past and has taken away with it the livelihood of villagers. “Development has improved the infrastructure of the village. But it has failed to touch the lives of villagers. Budgets have never brought any change to our lives. The development you see has come only after it dawned to the BJP that Deendayal was born here. There are about 20 houses in the village that doesn’t even have toilets. People from these houses defecate in the open,” says Dhota Ram, a daily wage labourer, who used till land at Dhankya till the landlord fired him.
 
 “The misery of villagers here is hidden due to the developed face of the village,” he adds.
 
 “Announcements made in budgets never reach us. Two years back, the government had announced loans to buy seeds, but we are yet to reap the benefit of the scheme. I have been running from pillar to post seeking financial help for building a toilet under the Swacch Bharat Abhiyan scheme but in vain,” says Raju Kasouliya, villager. And though they cheered the farm loan waiver announced by the BJP government in Monday’s Budget at the gram panchayat office, fact remains that most of the villagers have already given up on agriculture.
 
 Gajendra Singh, agriculture supervisor present at office, says that farm produce has reduced by 80% due to non-availability of water for irrigation. “I don’t think the waiver will stop migration as farming will not be a priority for some years,” said Singh.
 
 Sita Devi, an octogenarian, recalled that the primary health centre (PHC) in the village has not provided any free medicine, a scheme that was initiated by the previous Ashok Gehlot government.
 
 And any promise made in the budgets fail to bring a smile, as she—taught by time—knows that the promises are hollow.
 
 The Raiger Mohalla accused the state of selective development by showcasing government buildings like the anganwadi and the Atal Kendra. The only hope that the villagers here now have is the arrival of Prime Minister Narendra Modi for inaugurating the upcoming Upadhyaya memorial that might open up employment opportunities.
 
