COIMBATORE: Amid the speculations that the examination results for Class X and XII might delayed after a few teachers associations boycotted the paper evaluation pressing their five points demand, the teachers associations coming under   and Goverment Employees Organisations (JACTO -GEO) have declared that they would not boycott the paper evaluation in order to ensure the results are out on time.

 “Our protest is not against students. So,we will not boycott the paper evaluation and we are working for the  ,” said A Mayavan of Tamil Nadu High and Higher Secondary Graduate Teachers Association, who is one of the state coordinators of  .
 
 Camps to evaluate the answer papers of Class XII commenced on April 12, while for Class X is to start on April 23. A total of 74 camps were being set up across the state to evaluate the papers of about two million students and more than 25,000 teachers were being assigned to the task.
 
 “In a recent meeting, the coordinators decided and directed the teachers not to indulge in any protest that could affect the students,” Mayavan said.
 
 “We would ensure that the paper evaluation work and the results will not be delayed even by a day,” he said. 
 
 “However, we decided to protest near the Secretariat on May 8, as the Class XII paper evaluation completes on May 6, pressing our demands,” he added. 
 
 Following the massive protests by the members of JACTO-GEO in the last September demanding the state government to implement the recommendations of seventh pay commission, the members have also been demanding to scrap the new pension scheme, to release the 21 months arrears amount of pay commission and to fix the anomalies of the pay commission.
 
 P K   said that about seven teachers associations were with JACTO-GEO and only a few number of teachers had decided to boycott. 
 
 “There is no shortage of teachers for evaluation and the work could continue without any difficulties. In order to mark our protest, we are wearing black badges to the camps,” he added.
 
 The paper evaluation for Class XII to be completed on May 6 and result would be announced on May 16, while the paper evaluation for Class X and XI would be completed on May 5 and May 20 respectively and their results would be announced on May 23 and May 30.
 
 
