BAREILLY: In a grim discovery, headless bodies of a woman and a minor boy were found at Chimyavali village in Uttar Pradesh’s Sambhal district. A section of the woman’s hand, which contained a   of her name, had been skinned,   said. The decapitated bodies are yet to be identified. Three police teams have been set up to investigate the murders.

 The bodies were spotted on Sunday evening by some local boys who had come to the field to play. Stunned at the ghastly discovery, they informed a watchman, Ram Ratan, who was passing through the area. Ratan immediately called up the nearby police station. On getting information about the twin  , assistant superintendent of police (ASP), Sambhal, Pankaj Pandey, also reached the spot with officers from three police stations.
 
 “Following some leads, we have sent a team to Moradabad. The woman appears to be a labourer. Our teams are collecting information from brick kilns in the region to ascertain reports about missing persons. All police stations in the area have also been alerted,” said ASP Pandey.
 
 Station house officer (SHO) of Sadar Kotwali police station, Anil Samaniya, said, “The bodies have been sent for postmortem. It is likely that the victims were mother and son, and the murderers were their relatives.”
 
 SHO Samaniya also said that the woman seemed to be around 30-year-old while the boy was around 8. “We have lodged an FIR against unknown persons in the matter and investigation is on. Residents of a dozen nearby villages were called to identify the bodies but nobody was able to recognize them,” he added.
 
 Things found at the crime spot also hinted about the presence of a girl, said officers. A packet of chips, a water bottle, a red frock, an orange-coloured shirt, grey-coloured slacks and two pairs of slippers were recovered. The deceased woman’s sandals were also found at a little distance from the crime scene.
 
 When questioned if the killings were a result of tantrik practices, the ASP said, “We are working on that angle too. But in most cases of tantrik killing, only children are targeted. It is likely that the murders are fallout of an illicit relationship. The fact that part of the woman’s hand, which had a tattoo of her name, was skinned also points at the involvement of close acquaintances.”
 
 
