BENGALURU: After days of dithering, the JD(S)-Congress government has decided to offer a two-phase loan-waiver scheme — the second since June 2017 — for farmers in  . The scheme may be rolled out with stringent riders in a fortnight.

 
 “We’ll come up with a comprehensive plan in 15 days. Whatever the difficulty, our government is committed to maintaining fiscal discipline and saving farmers from debt," chief minister   announced after an interaction with farmers’ representatives along with his deputy, G Parameshwara, here on Wednesday.
 
 The JD(S), in its election manifesto, had promised to write off all categories of loans of farmers which would result in financial hit of Rs 53,000 crore on the exchequer. According to sources, as many as 63 lakh farmers have borrowed loans — 40 lakh from nationalized banks (which hand loans upwards of Rs 3 lakh) and the rest from co-operative institutions (which give loans between Rs 50,000 and Rs 3 lakh).
 
 The total borrowing from farmers is said to be Rs 1.2 lakh crore. Sources said the government was looking at many options — introducing a new cess or increasing the excise duty — to make good the loss that’s likely to be caused by the  .
 
 The CM said the waivers will apply to all those who have taken farm loans between April 1, 2009 (when the last big loan waiver was announced by the Centre) and December 31, 2017. The government would consider debts of small and marginal farmers in the first phase, and that of large farmers in the second phase.
 
 
 No differences between Cong, JD(S): Dy CM
 
 Taking a cue from Kerala, the CM said he would ask small and marginal farmers to submit documents related to their debts to the deputy commissioners in their districts.
 
 Justifying the 15 days he sought to announce the plan, Kumaraswamy said modalitieswouldtakesome time to finalize and he needed to get the nod of AICC president Rahul Gandhi, who is abroad with his mother Sonia Gandhi. He added that he’d meet chairmen and senior officials of nationalised banks about farm loans in their banks to seek their feedback on loan waiver and frame guidelines accordingly.
 
 When some farmers objected to riders being imposed, Kumaraswamy said: “My major concern is that the government was not to allow misuse of the facility. There are farmers who have taken loans to buy motorbikes or celebrate weddings. There are some who run pesticide shops and some who own plantations up to 500-1,000 acres. Should we give loans to such people?’’ Parameshwara said there were no differences between JD(S) and   on loan waiver, but it has got delayed because they were discussing how to execute it in consultation with Rahul. Former minister and BJP leader Govind Karjol, who represented opposition leader BS Yeddyurappa, said the government should take immediate steps to announce the waiver.
 
 Monthly meeting with farmers
 
 HD Kumaraswamy said he’ll hold monthly meeting with farmers to seek their feedback on agrarian issues.Addressing a meeting of farmers representatives, he said he also plans to ensure minimum prices for farm yield and look at implementing Israel farming practices to ensure they get a regular income and avoid the debt cycle.
 
 A team of JD(S) leaders led by Kumaraswamy had visited Israel to study innovative agriculture methods. “I also have a grand plan to provide drinking water through taps in every village in the state which would require around Rs 40,000 crore,’’ he added.
 
 
 
