NEW DELHI: Taking forward its recent peace initiatives in J&K, the   has advised the J&K government to formulate a new surrender and rehabilitation policy for Kashmiri militants willing to give up the gun, that focuses on their economic rehabilitation and suitable training to help them set up and run their own businesses. 

 The idea is to not only facilitate their return to the mainstream but also keep them gainfully engaged so that they do not slip back into militancy due to dejection over lack of post-surrender opportunities. 
 
 The existing surrender and rehabilitation policies, formulated in 2004 and 2010, haven’t seen much success. While the militants return scheme requires them to come back from PoK through designated routes, blowing their cover, the financial incentives are meagre. Also, there are no real avenues for economic rehabilitation to help the surrendered militants find employment. 
 
 The new policy is likely to raise the financial incentive, possibly by three times, and ensure that it facilitates self-employment. Union home minister  , in consultation with the   government as well as Centre’s special representative for J&K dialogue Dineshwar Sharma, has over the past few months rolled out a series of measures aimed at addressing grievances of Kashmiri youth. The first was to offer amnesty to firsttime stone-pelters in J&K. 
 
 As many as 3,685 of the nearly 9,000 youth involved in stonepelting for the first time have already benefited. Widening ambit of the amnesty plan, the Centre has now advised the J&K government to constitute a high-level committee under a DG/ADG-rank officer to review all remaining cases of stone-pelting, including those against repeat offenders. 
 
 The home ministry favours withdrawal/closing of cases against youth involved in stonepelting cases that have not resulted in grievous injuries. A senior officer said: “In no other state in the country are stone-pelting cases against the youth pursued after the law and order situation has normalised. Kashmiri youths should be treated with similar leniency if they have reacted out of frustration or impulsively joined an ongoing protest”. Keeping youths in jail for long periods, it is felt, runs the risk of their becoming radicalised or hardened criminals prone to joining militancy. 
 
 Meanwhile, the state government has also been advised to redress the grievances of migrants in J&K, including Kashmiri migrants,   migrants, displaced persons from Pakistan-occupied J&K and Chhamb and   refugees.
 
