NEW DELHI: An indirect tax tribunal has upheld the entire service tax demand against   (IIPM), saying there was no scope to exclude “academic courses” conducted by the institute from levy of the tax.
 
 “We set aside the impugned order to the extent of dropping service tax demand and uphold the entire demand of service tax raised in the show cause notice dated 10.2.2006,” according to the order of the  .
 
 “Such demand will be payable along with interest under section 75. IIPM will also be liable to pay penalty equal to service tax demanded under section 77 of the Finance Act, 1994,” said the order by S K Mohanty, member (judicial) and V Padmanabhan, member (technical).
 
 Officials said the total services tax demand, including penalty and interest, could be over Rs 200 crore and the department would now insist on the payment of the outstanding amount. There are 12 show cause notices pending against the high profile institute. Efforts to contact  , director of
 
 IIPM, for his response did not yield any results as text messages and calls to him went unanswered.
 
 The case is linked to an appeal filed by the Revenue department challenging the dropping of service tax demand against IIPM by the Commissioner of Service Tax, Delhi.
 
 The investigations undertaken by the erstwhile DGCEI (Directorate General of Central Excise Intelligence) concluded that IIPM was charging “huge amounts of about Rs 5 lakhs per student for MBA courses and around Rs 8 to 9 lakhs for BBA-3 years course. The academic courses were not approved by the   (AICTE) and the institute was not affiliated to any university or recognized by the UGC or any state or central Act.
 
 “In view of the above, since the training courses conducted by IIPM do not result in any award of any certificate/diploma/degree or any other educational qualification recognized by the law being in force, the activity will fall under the category of Section 65 (105) (zzc) of the Act and is a taxable service liable to payment of service tax,” the order said.
 
 
