The media has been forced to wait and watch, as the mystery surrounding the death of former chief minister Jayalalithaa lingers on longer than a year now. It’s been more than two months since the   was appointed to investigate Jayalalithaa’s death, but the proceedings of the judicial probe still remain shrouded in secrecy. Senior judges of the Madras high court see no reason for this.

 They say, when the press has been allowed to cover far more controversial inquiries in the past, as seen in the case of the Sarkaria Commission, the Samikannu Commission, the M M Ismail Commission, the Jain Commission and the Verma Commission, the Arumugasamy Commission has no reason to keep the press out of the hearings. The Sarkaria and Samikannu commissions probed corruption allegations against DMK supremo M Karunanidhi, and coverage of the proceedings could have dented his image as a leader. And yet the hearings were not kept from the press.
 
 M M Ismail Commission, which saw now retired Justice K Chandru representing CPM, looked into the prison atrocities during the Emergency and did not shy away from public gaze either.
 
 "It is unthinkable that a commission can conduct proceedings in secrecy unless certain special reasons exist and if they exist, then they must be put on record. The Arumugasamy Commission appointed by the state government, which is conducting an inquiry on a matter of public importance, holds its sittings in-camera. There is no provision in the Commissions of Inquiry Act, 1952 to conduct a full in-camera inquiry. Under Section 5 (4), the commission of inquiry is a deemed civil court and under Section 5 (5), its proceedings are judicial proceedings. Every judicial proceeding must be public inquiry unless there is a statutory bar in recording a statement of the witness," says Justice K Chandru. 
 
 The Arumugasamy Commission has revealed the list of witnesses, but the statements they have made is not known. "It is the prerogative of the judge to withhold the information," an official attached to the commission told reporters when they attempted to make their way into Kalas Mahal, the tightly guarded venue of the inquiry commission.
 
 RTI activist B Anbazhagan claims bureaucrats Ram Mohan Rao and Sheela Balakrishnan were recently added to the list of witnesses after he in an eight-page complaint informed the commission that the two were present at the Apollo hospital when Jayalalithaa was admitted. "Ram Mohan Rao’s signature is there on the register of the hospital," says Anbazhagan.
 
 The activist claims that two death certificates were prepared after Jayalalithaa died. "One certificate was prepared on the morning of her death and another the same night. When I sought to know the details of the judicial proceedings, I was shunned out," says Anbazhagan. 
 
 Nearly 16 months have passed since the day former chief minister Jayalalithaa was admitted to  , but precious little is known as to what led to her hospitalisation and subsequent death. 
 
 Retired justice D Hariparanthaman says the media should boycott the hearings and refuse to publish the bits of information handed out by the commission. "Courts are increasingly resorting to gag orders, as seen in several recent cases. This would never happen in western countries. The media has no option but to go to court to fight this oppression."
 
 The Commission of Inquiry Act nowhere prohibits a public inquiry though its report is to be submitted only to the government. Chandru says, "All the inquiry commissions’ hearings that I have attended in the past were held in public. Only when the space available for conducting the proceedings was small, the entry of public was limited. But never the press was denied access."
 
 He holds that it is the press that ultimately acts as the eyes and ears of the public and they cannot be restricted in reporting the proceedings of Commission of Inquiry. "Otherwise it may not be a public inquiry and it may look like a court martial conducted by the Army where soldiers are punished in secret proceedings," says Chandru. 
 
 He asserts that denial of entry for the press by the Arumugasamy Commission cannot be justified on any account. "It is especially so when no other criminal proceedings are pending and the present trial is not circumscribed by any special law."
 
 The findings of a commission are only recommendatory. "Its scope lies in what outcome the media can effect from it by taking it to the public," says Hariparanthaman. 
 
 
