PUNE: While citizens were expecting light showers on a warm March day, the cloudy skies did nothing but mislead all.

  
 Rain evaded the city on Saturday, keeping the day temperatures in Shivajinagar and Lohegaon above normal.
 
 “The cloudy skies may persist without rain, making the nights warmer,” said a city-based working professional  .
 
 The India Meteorological Department ( ) has, however, forecast the possibility of light rain for the city on Sunday too. Though the   predicted light rain for Saturday, rain evaded Pune.
 
 The day temperatures have been above normal over south Konkan and parts of Madhya Maharashtra. The night temperatures are surging noticeably over north Konkan, and are significantly above normal over north Madhya   and  .
 
 However, it might get warmer during the day, as the Met department has forecast a further rise in the day temperature over interior Maharashtra by two to three degrees Celsius during the next couple of days.
 
 A cyclonic circulation over south Konkan and the adjoining   is keeping the skies partly cloudy in the northern districts of Madhya Maharashtra, which has also led to an increase in the night time temperature here. The highest positive departures (when the night temperature is several degrees higher than normal) in the night temperatures in Madhya Maharashtra are being recorded in Malegaon, Nashik, Lohegaon and Pune.
 
 In comparison to Friday, Shivajinagar’s minimum temperature on Saturday rose slightly to 17.9°C, which was 3.2°C higher than normal. On the other hand, the day temperature went up by a degree to 36.6°C. Though the day temperature has been fluctuating between 35°C and 36°C, the ‘real feel’ temperature in Pune on Saturday was 40°C, a private weather forecasting agency said.
 
 Lohegaon’s temperatures were higher than that in Shivajinagar, with the mercury rising to 37.4°C during the day and dipping to 20.7°C during the night.
 
 Skymet Weather Services sources said light rain and thundershowers could be experienced during the next 24 hours over the northern parts of Madhya Maharashtra, adjoining West Vidarbha and parts of Marathwada.
 
 
