HYDERABAD: The state government is using various ways to popularise the Jalam Jeevam programme and convince apartment owners and residential welfare associations to build rainwater harvesting (RWH) structures, but over 80% of RWH pits built in 2016 have turned into garbage dumping grounds.

 While the Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (HMWS&SB) is in charge of constructing the RWH pits, the responsibility of maintaining them was given to residential welfare associations (RWA). But they seem to have neglected their duty.
 
 “The   dug up the RWH structures in 2016 not only to improve groundwater table but also in view of the good monsoon in the state. The work was done with the consent of RWAs. The goverment took up a massive programme to construct RWH pits under the ‘100-Day Action Plan’ and dug 2,200 structures,” HMWS&SB officer-on-special duty ( ), RWH pits,   told STOI.
 
 
  
  
 
 The Water Board spent a total of ₹5 crore to build 2,200 RWH pits, spending ₹30,000 for each structure. Out of the 2,200 structures, the Water Board also dug up 40 Injection Wells (borewells) in areas where the groundwater level was very low. For this, the Water Board spent ₹50,000 each.
 
 This money seems to have literally gone down the drain. For instance, the RWH pit in  , which was dug in 2016, has turned into a garbage bin due to lack of maintenance. The RWH pit in   is filled with a thick layer of mud and garbage. Similarly, the RWH pit in Srinagar Colony too has become a dustbin for locals and shopkeepers.
 
 When the RWH pits were constructed, the Water Board had entered into a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with representatives of RWAs for maintenance of the structures. According to the MoU, the associations had to regularly remove mud that accumulates in the pit and put up sand to aid the free flow of run-off rainwater into it. The associations were also tasked with ensuring that the pit does not get clogged with garbage, said the Water Board official.
 
 When STOI contacted some of the RWA representatives, they said that “the mud layer formed due to the heavy rains last year and then dried up. Though we are strictly following the rules as per the MoU, the civic body sweepers and shopkeepers are using the RWH pits as garbage bins”.
 
 The Water Board will soon conduct a survey on the existing RWH pits and try to revive them before the monsoon begins, said Satyanarayana.
 
 
