NEW DELHI: Indian boxing’s chief national coaches have been dropped from the squad for the Gold Coast   on the pretext that they couldn’t make any difference to the fortunes of the country’s pugilists at the CWG.

 
 
 
 This would be the first instance when chief coaches would not be travelling with the team to a multi-sport event. The men’s team is coached by   while the women’s team is training under Shiv Singh.
 
 On earlier occasions, the   contingent always had the calming presence of former chief coach Gurbax Singh Sandhu at the CWG, Asian Games or Olympics. However, the 18-month old Boxing Federation of India (BFI), headed by Ajay Singh, has decided to break the tradition.
 
 Now, the 21-member boxing contingent – comprising of 12 boxers, five coaches, two physios and a video analyst – will have two foreign coaches – men’s high performance director Santiago Nieva from Sweden and women’s high performance manager Raffaele Bergamasco from Italy – at the ringside corners during the CWG bouts. Five-time world champion Mary Kom’s personal coach, Chhote Lal Yadav, and two assistant coaches form the remaining part of the coaching staff. In a token gesture, both SR Singh and Shiv Singh will be allowed to travel with the contingent for a training stint at the Australian Institute of Sports in Canberra before they return back home.
 
 This decision has led to resentment among other Indian coaches.
 
 BFI chief Singh defended the decision by saying that it was taken in the best interest of the Indian boxing. “Our objective is to achieve the maximum number of medals at the Games. Everything has been decided keeping the contingent size in mind. We believe that the foreign coaches would be able to do the job,” he told TOI.
 
 However, some members of contingent disagreed with the decision. Pinki Jangra, who will be competing in the 51kg category, said, “It would have been better to have Shiv sir around. He has been training us for more than a year and there’s a certain comfort level that we share with him.”
 
 According to CWG rules, the support staff size cannot be more than one third the size of athletes’ contingent.
 
