VIJAYAWADA: ‘Pratyeka Hoda- Vibhajana Hamila Sadhana Samithi’ (PHVHSS) called statewide hunger strikes from March 1 with an objective to pressure the Centre to fulfill promises, which were made during the bifurcation.

 Representatives of various political parties and peoples’ organizations, who participated in a roundtable meeting at I.V Palace in the city on Sunday, said that they would intensify the stir, if the Centre disagrees with the demands raised by the MPs in Andhra. Andhra Intellectuals Forum Convenor Chalasani Srinivas, who chaired the round table meeting, said that budget sessions are the only chance for   people to achieve demands. 
 
 He requested MPs of both   and Telugu Desam to work collectively in achieving special status. Communist Party of India (Marxist) state secretary P. 
 
 Madhu initiated a huge meeting in Guntur on March 1 with intellectuals and political parties, and gave a call for mandal level peaceful protests demanding special status.
 
 Andhra Pradesh Congress Committee (APCC) president N. Raghuveera Reddy said that NDA government has intentionally ignored the promises given to Andhra Pradesh and everyone should fight till BJP lose in coming general elections.
 
 YSRC leader Kolusu Partha Saradhi alleged that double stand of Telugu Desam president and chief minister N. Chandrababu Naidu is the major reason why BJP has been ignoring the state. 
 
 Naidu who ignored the special status and bifurcation promises for last four years is trying to motivate people with false protests of their MPs in the parliament.
 
 YSRCP MPs will continue their fight in the parliament till centre announces special status for Andhra Pradesh.
 
 Communist Party of India (CPI) secretary K. Ramakrishna said that centre should immediately revise allocations made to the state in the budget for the financial year 2018-19. He said that special status should be announced immediately and bifurcation promises should be honoured.
 
 PHVHSS decided to intensify agitation from March 6 if centre ignores demands of Andhra Pradesh MPs in parliament
 
 
