Nagpur: City businessman Aditya Bhaiya is staring at a financial loss of Rs 8 lakh, all because of CBSE’s decision to conduct a re-exam. When his daughter returned on home on Wednesday after appearing for her Std X Math board exam, the only thing on Bhaiya’s mind was their family tour to South Africa in April. “I had got a superb deal primarily because I booked well in advance but it comes with a non-refundable clause. I had kept three week's buffer for my trip but now that is under threat,” said Bhaiya. His paternal cousin Jagdish is staring at a bigger loss as his 20-day tour to the US was to start from Monday. Jagdish’s family, including daughter who appeared for Std XII, left Nagpur a few days ago and were camping in Mumbai until the international departure. Jagdish said a dream vacation had now been ruined. “We are currently consoling ourselves with a short holiday in Lonavla. We were really looking forward to a fun family tour to US but that’s all gone. I have the option to reschedule but it will come at a big loss,” said Jagdish. Manpreet Alag, tour operator who specializes in overseas travel, said there was panic among parents. “Those who have already booked their tickets are calling to understand how much refund they can get and whether rescheduling penalty will be applicable. Those who had made inquiries about travelling abroad have completely put it on the backburner. Had the exams date been announced at least there would have been some clarity. Now they cannot even work around a date,” said Alag. Rumours on social media were rife that CBSE will conduct exams on April 24 and 26, though there is no official confirmation of it. All CBSE has mentioned so far is that exam dates will be decided before the end of the week. Ashwini Chopra, a parent, had planned a proper dinner at his club to celebrate end of his daughter’s Std X exam. “I am in a unique situation as both children are appearing for board exams (Std X & XII). Luckily my second kid has not been affected but still our family trip to north India starting next week is gone. I can reschedule easily but that will come with hefty cancellation charges,” said Chopra.