Mangaluru: Stung by BJP’s scathing comment (‘It's ease of doing murders not business in Karnataka’), the Conrgess government has hit back by releasing statistics about communal killings during their tenure which indicate that such crimes have drastically reduced.

 On the BJP’s accusation of increase in  , Congress pointed out that, since 2013, 13   were killed by organisations such as HJV, Sri Rama Sene, Bajrang Dal and others compared to 11 Hindus getting killed by Muslim activists. It pointed out that MP Shobha Kharandlaje’s list mentioned 14 persons killed due to communal reasons, but investigation revealed that one person is still alive and majority of the rest were killed for “political” reasons and suicide. The majority of both Hindu and Muslim deaths had taken place in undivided Dakshina Kannada.
 
  
  
 
 “The BJP said Congress is fostering communal tensions and murders increased during our tenure. To expose their lies, we have released data which point to a steep decline in crime rates,” said home minister Ramalinga Reddy.
 
 He released data on February 6 about crimes, state-wise crime ranking, Hindu activists killed by Muslim/ activists and vice-versa. “The crime rates should have increased over the years due to population growth in the state but it hasn’t. During 2008-2012 BJP rule, 8,885 persons were killed but between 2013-17, the number reduced to 7,759. Similarly, 5,542 dacoity cases were registered during Congress rule against 9,648 earlier,” Reddy explained.
 
 However, sexual assaults and chain snatching have increased over the years. During the BJP tenure, 2,922 such cases were registered and it increased to 3,833 from 2013-17.
 
 Agreeing with the   ( ) which said that Bengaluru is next only to Delhi in crime, Reddy said Karnataka is placed 17th in abduction of women, 6th in sexual assault and 17th in crime against women. “Since law and order is better than in any other state, the majority of IT-BT companies are thriving and have planned big investments,” he added.
 
 DK is terror factory: Reddy
 
 Justifying his recent comment in the assembly that ‘Dakshina Kannada is a terror factory’, Reddy said two extreme forces are stoking communal violence in the district. “We’ll try our best to weed out all these elements. We’re booking persons behind the murder conspiracies and it has been done in the Deepak Rao and Basheer murders,” he said.
 
 BJP and saffron chauvinists claimed that the Karthik Raj murder in Konaje was done by Muslim activists, but investigation revealed that it was done by the victim’s sister. Similarly, Harish was killed due to a fishing rights dispute. Vaman Poojary, 68, had committed suicide, not murdered. He was a key witness in the murder of right-wing activist   and had allegedly committed suicide, Reddy pointed out.
 
 ‘Statistics manipulated’
 
 The Congress has manipulated statistics. I agree there are political murders and a majority of the victims are from the BJP. The government hasn’t done anything to protect our party workers from being killed. It’s shielding criminals from the Popular Front of India who have been involved in communal murders.
 
 Shobha Karandlaje | MP, Udupi-Chikkamagaluru
 
 Violent end (from 2013 till date)
 
 11 Hindus activists killed by Muslims/Muslim activists
 
 13 Muslims killed by Hindu Chauvinists
 
 4 Hindus, which BJP claimed as communal deaths, died for other reasons — suicide, road accident, land dispute, political and fishing right dispute
 
 Source: Karnataka govt
 
 
