BHUBANESWAR: The smart city may become free of the hazards of electronic waste (e-waste) if measures mooted by experts are taken up by the   (BMC). 

 The civic body on Friday launched the e-waste free Bhubaneswar programme.
 
 The   (IFC), which is an arm of the  , will provide technical guidance to the BMC on handling and managing the waste to ensure that it is made sustainable and its hazardous impact is minimized. 
 
 To implement the project, a consortium comprising Sofies Sustainability Leaders Private Ltd and city-based Siddha Development Research and Consultancy, have been roped in by the IFC and BMC.
 
  "The consortium will evolve an effective e-waste collection mechanism for developing an e-waste eco-system. The two agencies will also build linkages between informal sector (e-waste collected by ragpickers and given to scrap dealers) with the formal sector," said an official of BMC after the workshop. 
 
 The e-Bhubaneswar project is a part of the IFC-European Union Eco-Cities Programme. The Eco-cities India is a climate-change focused programme in which smart cities like Bengaluru, Chennai, Mumbai and Pune are also included. 
 
 In February last year, a team from IFC led by e-waste expert Berno Kopacek had visited several places in the city for a ground-zero experience of generation and dumping of e-waste to evolve a working model for collection and disposal. 
 
 The IFC has already guided Hyderabad and Ahmedabad in e-waste disposal.
 
 Sources said currently disposal of e-waste in informal sector (by scrap dealers) helps recover only 30% of metals from the waste. Recycling in a scientific way can fetch about 90% metal, which can be reused for various purposes. 
 
 "If the e-waste is properly recycled, it can reduce the pressure on environment," said D K Behera, senior environmental scientist with Odisha State Pollution Control Board.
 
 "The e-Waste Management Rules, 2016 has created a momentum and given an opportunity to make long-term solution for e-waste management in the smart city Bhubaneswar," said Ronojoy Sircar of IFC. 
 
 The BMC also launched a toll-free number to facilitate people and firms to contact the civic body to seek help for disposal of e-waste piled up in their houses or firms. 
 
 
