 across the country soared on Sunday, the day three of the 10-day farmers’ protest.   continued to dump their produce on roads to protest against the alleged anti-farmer policies of the central government.

 
 The farmers’ organisations are demanding remunerative prices for their produce, implementation of Swaminathan Commission recommendations and farm loan waiver. They have stopped the supply of vegetables, fruits, milk and other items to cities.
 
 The protest in Punjab turned nasty when farmers stopped milkmen from supplying milk and spilled it at many places in Bathinda and Mansa district. Milkmen said farmers forcibly snatched milk at Lehra Mohabbat and Jeond villages in Bathinda district and Sardulgarh town in Mansa district. They complained of not being allowed to distribute milk and also held a protest at some places.
 
 “I was loading milk in a car when some activists of farmer organisation took away 2.7 quintals of milk and 12kg cheese. They also damaged the vehicle,” milk dairy owner Manpreet Singh of Muktsar district’s Bhundar village said.
 
 In Rajasthan, the pinch of the ongoing “gaon bandh” was felt with a rise of almost 30% in fruit and vegetable prices in urban areas. In rural areas, however, where farmers are protesting and selling their vegetables without any mediators, the prices registered a dip.
 
 Traders at the wholesale Mohana Mandi on Sunday said prices will rise further on Monday if the supply of vegetables and fruits continue to be short.
 
 Milk was sold out within minutes of supply at the booths of the Rajasthan Cooperative Dairy Federation’s Saras branch. Farmers have stopped the entry of inter-state trucks carrying milk, vegetables and fruits in many districts. “We are not letting these trucks to go further and urging them to be united for the cause,” said Santveer Singh of  .
 
 The prices showed a northward trend in most cities of Madhya Pradesh as well. The supply of vegetables in Bhopal, Indore, Jabalpur and Gwalior went down by 30-50% triggering a hike in prices, wholesale traders said.
 
 “On Sunday, only 2,500 quintals of fruits and vegetables arrived at Bhopal’s Karond Mandi against an average of 10,000 to 12,000 quintals on weekdays,” secretary of the Mandi Vinay Pateria told TOI.
 
 Shivkumar Sharma alias Kakka ji, president of Rashtriya Kisan Mazdoor Mahasangh, however, said his orgnisation was not stopping farmers from supplying their produce. “We have neither forced nor stopped any farmer from taking their produce to the mandis,” he said.
 
 Heavy police deployment has been made in villages especially on state and national highways connecting cities. Police confirmed no case of violence was reported from anywhere in the state. Pipliyamandi in Mandsaur district, where six farmers were killed in police firing on June 6 last year, too was by and large peaceful.
 
 In Bajpur, in Uttarakhand’s Udham Singh Nagar district, agitated farmers stopped trucks of the Uttarakhand Cooperative Dairy Federation (UCDF) and spilled milk on the roads. In Sitarganj, farmers distributed free milk to commuters.
 
 According to state vice-president of the Bhartiya Kisan Union, Ajit Pratap Randhawa, “The cultivators have been asked not to come to the markets in urban areas to sell their farm produce, including milk. However, they can sell their produce among villagers.”
 
