NEW DELHI: An   passenger had to be offloaded from a   flight at Mumbai   early on Tuesday morning after he allegedly got into an argument with the   and appeared to be in no condition to fly. 

 The latest case of disruptive passenger behaviour occurred on Jet Airways’ Mumbai-Kolkata flight 9W 484 around 2am on Tuesday.
 
 Given the flyer’s condition,   agencies suspected that he might have had a drink too many after clearing the security check for this red-eye flight; if the   had entered the terminal in such an inebriated state, he might not have been allowed to check-in.
 
 “The aircraft (VT-JBC) pushed back at 2.11am. The passenger allegedly got into an argument with the crew during pre-takeoff safety demonstration. The crew tried their best to calm him down but when that did not happen, they informed the captain who then decided to taxi back to the bay,” said a source.
 
 The airline alerted the security agencies and the passenger was handed over to them. 
 
 “The plane took off with a delay of about 40 minutes after the disruptive passenger was offloaded from the plane at Mumbai,” said a Jet spokesman. The flight had 166 passengers and seven crew members.
 
 Given the flyer’s condition, he had to be taken to a hospital after being administered first-aid at the airport. 
 
 A Mumbai airport spokesperson also confirmed the incident.
 
 This case has revived concerns over the presence of bars in post-security hold areas where passengers can have as much alcohol as they wish. “After clearing security and while waiting to board, they are in security hold areas that have bars. We see a trend of people often drinking too much there and then boarding planes in an inebriated condition. There must be some checks on how much liquor can be sold to passengers waiting to board,” said a senior official.
 
 A leading Indian carrier had recently introduced limits on the number of drinks that can be served to passengers in its business and first-class lounge at the departure terminal of Delhi airport. In the past, several Indian airlines had written to aviation authorities to restrict passengers’ access to liquor at departure terminals to check increasing incidents of unruly behaviour by tipsy flyers. While lounges usually have a alcohol limit, bars and restaurants selling liquor in boarding areas do not apply such checks.
 
 
