LUCKNOW: Freezing temperatures, long wait for trains, lack of space in waiting rooms and complete absence of any kind of heaters is giving passengers a hard time at   railway station.

 The situation is similar for both NR and NER stations. As fog affects train movement across northern India, passengers have to wait for long hours everyday. Early mornings and late nights are the most difficult time as icy winds and dipping temperature make passengers shiver.
 
 Trains to Delhi, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Assam, Bihar, Punjab and many other places are running late by four-15 hours. Passengers say information about delays is not clear and many trains continue to get delayed despite an announced arrival or departure time.
 
 Waiting rooms get full in no time and passengers have to often jostle for space or wait in the open. The condition of toilets gets worse with every passing hour.
 
 The elderly, children and those not in good health suffer the most in the absence of bonfires or heaters.
 
 Ilyas Ahmad, who had to go to Delhi with his elderly parents, said his train Vaishali Express was more than four hours late. Ilyas said the station manager told him that railways was not allowed to burn wood or install heaters on platforms.
 
 Amrita Vaish. 58, had to board  , which was delayed.
 
 “There was misleading announcements about the delay. Every hour, they would say the train was further delayed. There was no exact information. I am a heart patient and it is very difficult for me to stay in bitter cold. My train was scheduled to arrive at 11.30pm but arrived after 7am. I spent the whole night on the platform and fell sick,” she said.
 
 Anurag Singh, who had to board  , said the train was seven hours late.
 
 “There is no arrangement for the elderly at the railway station. The toilets are not clean and there was no one in the station master’s room to attend to complaints at night,” said Anurag.
 
 Avdhesh Verma, who had to reach Gwalior, came to board his “delayed” train at 3am. When he reached at station, he came to know that the train was still late by six hours. He finally cancelled his ticket and took a flight.
 
 Divisional railway manager of Northern Railway Satish Kumar said, “Making bonfires on platforms can pose a risk of fire. We are concerned about the safety of passengers on platforms.”
 
 Nitin Pandey, a passenger who had to take a train to Jaipur, said, “If not on platforms, bonfires can be made outside the station for people who have to wait for long.”
 
 To this, the DRM said it was the duty of   to drop firewood outside the station.
 
 
