PHAGWARA: Dalit youth, Yashwant aka Bobby, who had received a bullet in his head during the clash between right wing Hindu groups and Dalit activists in the midnight of April 13, died at DMC Hospital Ludhiana after battling for his life for over a fortnight. Punjab Police, Rapid Action Force and BSF personnel have been deployed in very heavy numbers in the town and all roads leading to the town including National Highway have been closed and traffic has been diverted through alternate routes.

  Within the town also vehicular movement has been restricted and police officials have not been allowing anybody to go towards Banga Road – where cremation ground is located and Bobby’s residence is also near. 
 
  Soon after Bobby’s body reached his home, it was taken to cremation ground, which is around a kilometre away from his residence in Valmiki mohalla, amid very heavy security. In fact the number of police personnel was several times higher than the mourners in his last journey. Police women were also deployed in big numbers. While his kin were wailing, community members also raised slogans in Bobby’s memory.
 
  Jalandhar Zone IG Naunihal Singh and Commissioner Jalandhar division   were supervising the security and other arrangements for cremation. As police did not want to take any chances, when tension has already been simmering in the last fortnight, mobile internet and SMSe services were also shut in at least four districts of Doaba region which has high SC population.
 
  Congress Punjab SC cell in-charge and Chabbelwal MLA Dr Raj Kumar, former minister Joginder Singh Mann were also present. From opposition SAD MLA Pawan Teenu also reached the cremation ground. However leaders of other political parties or Dalit groups were not seen at the spot. It is learnt that police had asked them to stay away as outsiders were not allowed to converge there. 
 
  Police had already arrested four leaders of right wing groups including mandal president of Bhartiya Janta Yuva Morcha (BJYM). Names of at least five RSS-BJP and BJYM figure in the FIR. 
 
  The clash had taken place after Ambedkar Sena (mool Niwasi) installed a hoarding in the Gol Chowk to name it as Sanvidhaan Chowk, in the late evening of April 13 - a night before Dr B R Ambedkar's birth anniversary - to which right wing Hindu groups objected. As both sides had gathered there clash took place in the mid night in which gun shots were also fired injuring two Dalit activists. Other injured youth Kulwinder Kumar, who had received a bullet near pelvic region, has already returned home in nearby village Bhullarai after successful treatment. The town has been on the edge since the clash.
 
