PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: The   ( ) has become the first cantonment in the country to have a   rental   for its citizens.

 Amol Jagtap, the chief executive officer of the KCB, said encouraged by the good response, KCB now plans to increase the number of spots where the on-rent cycles will be available for easy and environment-friendly commute within the cantonment limits.
 
 Incidentally, such schemes are usually found only in Smart Cities. Jagtap said, “I had requested Rajendra Jagtap, the chief executive officer of the Pune Smart City Development Corporation Limited (PSCDCL), to start a cycle rental scheme as part of its Smart City project within KCB limits as well. He had agreed and we were able to launch the project here. Now we want to expand the network by making the cycles available at more spots within the cantonment.”
 
 “We want to start this service in East Khadki and the defence areas. We also want to start it in Sapras and some more areas in Range Hills in the next one or two weeks,” said Jagtap when asked about the specific areas where the service would be made available.
 
 “Barring the main roads — Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Road and the Pune-Mumbai highway — the traffic is usually not heavy so there is no need for separate cycle tracks. However, if the rental company wants, we can make markings on the roads,” said Jagtap to queries about the civic body’s plans on creating cycle tracks.
 
 Zoomcar operates the dockless cycle rental service — PEDL. It operates this service in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad cities. Agam Garg, the business head of Zoomcar in Pune, said, “We started the cycle service in Khadki on January 26. There are more than 100 cycles kept at eight locations. Inmates of the girls’ hostel, hawkers, vendors, army personnel, newspaper vendors and others are using these cycles. People find it convenient to travel on the rented cycle from one spot in the cantonment to another as the introductory offer is just Re 1 half an hour. We want to start more rental spots in the defence areas.”
 
 L K Pegu, the principal director of defence estates (PDDE), Southern Command, launched the service in presence of the chief guest — Pune BJP MP Anil Shirole, Rajendra Jagtap, CEO of PSCDCL, Amol Jagtap, CEO of KCB and elected cantonment members. 
 
 
