UDAIPUR: In an utterly shocking incident, a woman lawyer, allegedly upset with the newly elected committee of the  , attempted to abduct the president's minor daughter from the court campus on Saturday afternoon. She took away the child in her car, however, few advocates stopped and asked her where she was taking the kid. The child, meanwhile, managed to get out of the car and ran to her father. Infuriated over the incident, lawyers collected near the hall inside the court premises and badly thrashed the lady lawyer. 

 Later, she was arrested and taken to   police station. A case under Section 365 and 511 of the IPC for attempt of abduction has been registered against her. 
 
 Woman lawyer Sangita   was upset with the newly elected bar association members, specially the president, for not inducting her as a nominated member in the team. She had reportedly threatened the committee members of dire consequences some days ago. On Saturday, the swearing-in ceremony was held at the district and session court's campus. After the ceremony, while all the guests and lawyers were having lunch, Arora went to the bar president  's eight-year-old daughter and persuaded the child to accompany her. She succeeded in taking away the girl to her car and drove away. 
 
 The girl's elder sister saw this and reported to her father. Meanwhile, the lady lawyer had hardly reached few metres when few advocates spotted the child crying and asked her to stop the car. Getting a chance the kid got out of the car and ran to her father narrating the incident. 
 
 A commotion was created as the news spread and many lawyers collected at the court's open chowk where the woman lawyer had come. She made excused that she was taking the child for a joy ride, however, people did not listen and thrashed her up badly. Later, she was locked inside a room. Meanwhile, a police officer and a media personnel who were recording the incident, were also manhandled. 
 
 The advocates also damaged the woman lawyer's car and broke the windshield and window glass. A case has been registered against Arora and her aide for attempting abduction at the complaint of the Bar President. The association also suspended her membership.
 
