MUMBAI: The   on Tuesday arrested  , a superintendent and a private individual in an alleged Rs 50 lakh bribery case. This is the first case where four senior officers have been arrested in a single corruption case. 

 A special CBI holiday court of judge P K Sharma sent three of the deputy commissioners, Mukesh Meena (43), Sudarshan Meena (32) and Rajiv Singh (34), as well as customs superintendent Manish Kumar Singh (29) and private citizen Nilesh Singh (30) to CBI custody till May 4. The fourth deputy commissioner, Sandeep Yadav (34), was remanded in judicial custody for two weeks.
  
  
 The CBI had sought 14-day custody to probe, recover documents and "unearth" the full extent of what it called a "larger conspiracy of various units of the customs." "This conspiracy cannot be without the patronage of senior customs officers,'' said the CBI. It said the arrested officials had "illegally offloaded imported goods and misappropriated them for personal use". 
 
 Some part has been recovered but a major portion still hasn't, said the CBI. The goods include cosmetics. Over 40 of the arrested officers' colleagues and "batchmates" turned up in court to show solidarity.
 
 The CBI on April 25 registered a case of criminal conspiracy and criminal misconduct. The complaint was by a business person Amjad Mohammed Bakali, countersigned by Irfan Popatia, against these arrested officials and also against Akshat Rathod, customs officer (rummaging and intelligence) and Datta Sonawane, another private citizen. 
 
 The allegations were that the officers in conspiracy with private persons demanded a bribe of Rs 50 lakh from Bakali to clear his consignment, illegally kept on hold and to ensure clearance for his other consignments in pipeline. The FIR alleged a private person had assured Bakali's partner he would "manage the officers".
 
 The CBI laid a trap and caught two deputy commissioners and customs house agent Nilesh was caught red-handed for allegedly accepting Rs5 lakh as the bribe's first instalment from the complainant's partner. On the instruction of Mukesh Meena, Nilesh handed over Rs2 lakh of the bribe to the security guard posted at the gate of customs colony, Powai. Deputy commissioner Sandeep Singh was also present at the time of delivery of bribe money.
 
 Investigating officer, CBI's R S Gossain, told court the complaint alleged that Meena, Manish and Sonawane demanded Rs 25 lakh on April 19 for not holding the imported consignment lying at Navkar Customs warehouse. The amount was initially reduced to Rs 21 lakh, but later doubled to Rs 50 lakh, he said. 
 
 "Initial probe has revealed that arrested accused amassed huge assets from similar conspiracies previously," said the remand plea. But defence advocates, including A M Sachvani, Advani and Sujay Kantawala and Anish Desai appearing for various accused, said "CBI custody is not warranted'' and sought judicial custody. Sachvani said Nilesh was Meena's "informant" as he was a preventive unit officer. He said "while customs officers were investigating under the powers they have, the CBI comes in and arrests them. The complainant does not have clean hands and is changing the colour of the story".
 
 One consignment, allegedly containing mis-declared cosmetics, was released on April 21, after Sonawane collected Rs 11 lakh from Bakali. CBI said there are "WhatsApp conversations" between the accused and phones have been seized for forensics to be conducted. There were allegedly five consignments. CBI said Rathod and Sonawaneare are on the run. CBI said it needed their custody to complete searches and get their voice samples; besides, "Rs11 lakh paid earlier to the public servants is yet to be recovered."
 
 "The conversation recorded during a verification proceeding prima facie discloses a criminal conspiracy between Mukesh Meena, Manish, Rathod, Rajiv Singh, Sudershan Meena, Sonawane and Nilesh to demand Rs 50 lakh from Bakali, Popatia and Chandrashekhar Rane to not hold two incoming consignments...'' said the CBI. 
 
 Kantawalla, appearing for Sudarshan Meena and Rajiv Singh, said WhatsApp calls can be "innocuous" and routinely exchanged. The role of two more deputy commissioners and a superintendent was also found during investigation. The CBI prosecutor harped on the "numerous WhatsApp calls between Nilesh, Rajiv and Mukesh Meena and Sudarshan Meena...which corroborates their nexus in the episode."
 
 
