MUMBAI: The  , headed by controversial BJP minister  , on Wednesday appointed former chief secretary   to probe Mhada’s Patra Chawl redevelopment project in Goregaon, which was first exposed by TOI earlier this month.
  

 The 10-acre project is part of a 48-acre   layout in Siddarth Nagar, Goregaon, and is estimated to be worth over Rs 1,200 crore. 
 
 Guruashish Construction, a subsidiary firm of  , against whom the economic offences wing registered an FIR earlier this month, earned around Rs 1,100 crore by selling the development rights of Patra Chawl property to seven builders. Guruashish, which signed a tripartite agreement with Mhada and Patra Chawl residents to redevelop the 10-acre land in 2008, has virtually abandoned the project. A public sector bank has dragged the builder before National Company Law Tribunal for insolvency after it failed to repay a loan. 
 
 Joseph has been asked to probe into the NOC granted by Mhada on July 26, 2011, for the redevelopment project, followed by modifications made in the original agreement on November 9, 2011 and legal opinion given by lawyer S U Kamdar on March 8, 2018, to Mhada. He will have to fix the responsibility for illegalities and irregularities in the redevelopment project and submit his report within a month.
 
 On July 26, 2011, Mhada had granted NOC for the redevelopment of Siddarth Nagar Cooperative Housing Society (Patra Chawl). Subsequently, drastic modifications were made on September 9, 2011 in the tripartite agreement signed between the residents and developer on April 10, 2018. Following a complaint lodged by the residents, it was found that the original developer had illegally sold a part of the area to the new developers. Mhada, on January 12, 2018, issued a notice for taking over the entire project, along with the sold part. Aggrieved by Mhada’s action, a developer had moved the Bombay high court, which directed to examine the NOC granted by Mhada and the modifications made in the agreement. In view of the HC observations and opinion given by Kamdar, the housing department appointed Joseph to probe into the matter.
 
 
