By:   & Anindita Acharya

 In Kullu, menstruation is all it takes for   to be ostracized. It is a tricky subject for many families, particularly in “Devbhoomi,” where the physiological function is considered an impurity. Women on their period are banished to outhouses and cattle sheds to maintain the “sanctity” of the house, even in the bitterly cold winter. To stop this social exclusion of women at a time when they need to be the most comfortable, Kullu district administration has launched the “Nari Samman” campaign.
 
 Women’s organizations, zila parishad members and Kullu Devi Devta Kardar Sangh members have joined hands to remove taboos associated with menstruation and prevent deleterious psychological and physical impact of temporary ostracism.
 
 According to a survey conducted last November, the practice of shunting menstruating women out of the house is prevalent in 91 of 204 gram panchayats. One of the effects of the archaic practices surrounding menstruation is lack of menstrual hygiene, which can cause infertility, cervical infection or even cancer, anaemia and fever caused by exposure to ticks, mites and other parasites in a cow shed.
 
 
 
 Kullu deputy commissioner Yunus feels the acceptance of the campaign by religious figures would help check resistance to the campaign. “We held a meeting with the Kullu Devi Devta Kardar Sangh and Pujari Sangh. They have agreed to support the programme,” he said. The deputy commissioner initiated the campaign from Jana Gram panchayat of Naggar block, one of the most affected gram panchayats.
 
 Saying that the campaign is aimed at enhancing women’s health and eliminating the practice of social exclusion, he said the immediate priority is to bring about a change in public perception of a normal biological process.
 
 He pointed out that women on their periods, new mothers and even their babies are subjected to harsh climatic conditions as well as exposure to pathogens.
 
 While the administration is trying to bring about a change, there’s a catch. Kullu Devi Devta Kardar Sangh president Dot Ram Thakur said they could support the cause only if it is not in conflict with the “orders” of local deities. He also said many people have constructed separate rooms and bathrooms for women to live in during their periods.
 
 
 
 
 In the course of the meeting, Thakur said, he suggested to the deputy commissioner to construct community rooms attached with toilets to be used by women who do not have the facility of separate rooms at home.
 
 “Keeping women quarantined during menstruation or post birth is practiced voluntarily by people of Kullu as there are certain guidelines of the deities which need to be followed. Most women do not live in a cowshed now,” he said.
 
 
 
 Besides menstrual exclusion, women on their periods have also been facing issues like lack of hygiene and comfort. According to Indian journal of medical ethics, over 88% women in India cannot afford commercially packaged sanitary napkins and use alternatives like rags, plastic, hay, ash, sand, newspapers and dried leaves during menstruation.
 
 Krutika Katrat, a women’s rights activist said archaic practices make it very difficult for women to ask for help or even go to the market to buy sanitary hygiene products. “Such unhygienic practices cause vaginal infections, UTI (urinary tract infections), vaginal discharge and increased risk of HPV (human papillomavirus) infection,” she said.
 
 Tanvi Johri, co-founder and CEO, Carmesi, which manufactures natural sanitary napkins, is happy to notice increase in awareness about menstruation in the urban regions. However, she admits there is lack of awareness in rural areas. “Increasing educational level of women can help improve health of the community at large and overcome cultural taboos. Women in rural areas and small towns also need to be provided with sanitary napkins and adequate facilities for washing. Communitybased health education campaigns like the one taken up by the Kullu administration can help achieve this task,” she said.
 
 
 
 
 One cannot deny the impact of Bollywood films on the minds of people. So, Akshay Kumar talking about sanitary napkins in an upcoming Bollywood film will at least make people aware of menstrual hygiene.   admits that when Bollywood talks about something, it reaches millions. “What we need is conversations about this topic on a massive scale so that taboos are shattered.”
 
 Actress  , who played Manoj Bajpayee’s wife in Traffic, made her debut short film on the subject of menstruation. Titled, Her First Time, this 8-minute short film is about an 11-year-old girl who has her first period and how in the absence of her gynaecologist mother, her father deals with the issue. Unny believes films have the power to educate and influence people. “Most Indian fathers have remained aloof from this issue. An Indian daughter generally discusses menstruation with her mother. But Indian men should also take part in this discussion and only then can awareness be created on a larger scale,” said Unny.
 
 
 
 
 The plastic used in disposable pads can be hazardous for the vaginal area. Women who use disposable pads for a long time often suffer from fungal infections, rashes and irritation. Ritika Nitesh, the brain behind Rustic Art’s menstrual cups, said sustainable methods of menstruation such as using menstrual cups and cloth pads, which are reusable, can help resolve some of the issues. “However, the initial one-time payment for the menstrual cups won’t be easy for them. Hence, the CSR people can pitch in to make it affordable,” she said.
 
