The super hysterical movie ‘Carry On Jatta 2’ is all set to hit the screens this Friday. Meanwhile, the lead pair   and  , along with the producers Atul Bhalla and Sunny Sidhu came to Delhi on Sunday to address the media.

 
 Since the movie is a sequel to 2012’s super hit blockbuster ‘Carry On Jatta’, there have been comparisons, and questions about what new the film would serve. Gippy cleared the air by saying that the plot is new, as ‘Carry On Jatta 2’ doesn’t begin from where the first installment ended. At the same time, he also added, “Maximum crowd that will come to see ‘Carry On Jatta 2’ will be from the lot who has seen ‘Carry On Jatta’. So if we would have changed the flavour or pattern of the movie, the audience might have been puzzled on why did we do so.” As per the lead actor, there’s some change in the way the plot has been treated, he said, “Last time, we had punch after punch to make the audience laugh, but this time we have tried the script to be woven in a manner that the audience will break into laughter even during the pause.”
 
 
 
 
 The director of the movie   was very sure that this time they will have to give more than a hundred and ten percent effort than the last time. Since the movie is a sequel of a classic that has already raised the bar, people are already keeping their hopes high. Considering the same, the plot this time offers a double dose of confusion and madness.
 
 Recalling the twists of the plots that will be screened this time Gippy broke into a laugh and said, “In the last part I was the only one who got into trouble, this time I have dragged everyone into the confusion.”
 
 
 
 
 Generally, the sequels of Pollywood movies don’t take more than a year or two to come out, but ‘Carry On Jatta 2’ took good six years. To this Gippy said, “It took us six years to make the sequel because in the initial two-three years we didn’t even think about making the next part, as the first installment didn’t become old. People still remember each and every dialogue of the movie.”
 
 
 
 
 Though most of the star cast has been retained from the first installment, Sonam Bajwa became a new member of the family. Being a part of the film with which so many expectations are already associated, might have given anyone some chills down the spine. Sonam, on the other hand, seemed to have the best time of her life on the set. The actress quoted, “I saw ‘Carry On Jatta’ and was among the ones who caught its fever. Back then I was not in the showbiz, so I couldn’t even imagine being a part of the team. However, as events took a turn, I was approached for the movie and it got me really excited. I heard the script and my part and I knew I can do it. Moreover, I am a director’s actor and he had a lot of faith in me. He simply told me that Sonam just come on the set and have fun, and that’s all I did, to be honest. There wasn’t any pressure as such, except for the fact that I had to control my laughter, as I was the one to laugh the most.”
 
 
 
 
 With artists like Gippy Grewal, Binnu Dhillon, Gurpreet Ghuggi, Jaswinder Bhalla, B.N. Sharma and Karamjit Anmol, you can't expect the comedy to be restricted to only to the movie’s plot. The actors and the producers confessed that it was a laugh riot even off the set. In fact, Gippy added, “If our director Smeep Kang would start keeping our off-script comedy a part of the film, there will be eight to nine different movies, all together.”
 
