CHANDIGARH: A pack of dogs has taken over the residential streets and corners of Sector 40-D and created a lot of scare for the nearby residents, who now avoid these particular roads after dark. 

 These more than a dozen canines have also scared the pet owners of the neighborhood, who have altered the walking routes of their animals for the fear of being attacked by stray dogs. "This menace has grown over the last one year, with winter being the toughest season. You cannot anticipate from which corner the stray dogs will attack you. They stalk you until they get close and then they chase you," said Ashwini, one of the residents.
 
 "I have stopped bringing my Pomeranian dog to this road because there have been instances when two of the elder brown stray dogs have attacked him. I barely managed to rescue him by pelting them with stones," said  , a nearby resident. The stray dogs, of all sizes and age, have even spread out across the nearby parks, with many of them breeding and nesting inside the forest opposite the row of houses.
 
 The residential lanes opposite the forest run along the   dividing road. The highway and parts of Sector 40-C are now the dogs' territory. 
 
 "They are quite settled during the day but become extremely territorial and violent by the evening. They also have a habit of running behind cars, barking ferociously, and bother adults on two-wheelers and children on bicycles," said  , a nearby resident. 
 
 Recently, a senior citizen had a narrow escape from dog bite while riding pillion on a scooter. "He lives near the small temple on the other side of my lane. I remember how hard he screamed," said  , a resident. In the last breeding season, a female canine gave birth to eight pups. "The population of these dogs will continue to increase and this will continue being a problem. Dogs squads should sterilise these animals to control their population," said  , a nearby resident. 
 
 "This is the edge of the city, so many of the dogs also come from the nearby villages to feed on garbage from the overflowing dumpsters kept along the highway," he added. Many residents also demanded the deployment of dog catchers in the area carry away the pack to some kennel facility.
 
