CHANDIGARH: The Punjab cabinet on Thursday approved ‘The Punjab Food Grains Transportation Policy 2018-19’ and ‘The Punjab Labour and Cartage Policy 2018-19’ so as to facilitate smooth and timely procurement of wheat during the 2018-19 rabi season commencing from April 1.

 New policies will apply to various procurement agencies of the state including: Pungrain; Markfed; Punjab State Warehousing Corporation; Punsup; Punjab Agro Foodgrains Corporation; and  . All these agencies procure food grains from various designated centres and mandis.
 
  
  
 
 Under these policies, various labour and cartage societies will be given priority to carry out the operations of labour and cartage at the basic rates. The remaining work of labour and cartage up to 8 km and transportation of wheat beyond 8 km will be allocated though a competitive and transparent online tender system.
 
 In addition, the cabinet also took steps to streamline the outdoor ad policy. Aimed at generating an additional Rs 200 crore revenue, the state cabinet approved the 'Punjab Municipal Outdoor Advertisement Policy-2018’ for regulating the process of outdoor advertising.
 
 The new policy stipulates provisions for permissible content on outdoor advertisement and also identification of suitable places for putting advertisements.
 
 The policy is aimed at awarding advertising rights through e-auction by municipalities, without causing traffic or any other type of hindrance in the towns. The policy bars any advertisement on historical and archaeological buildings.
 The council of ministers also decided to set up a cabinet sub-committee to crack down on unauthorized occupation of government land across the state.
 
 The committee has been set up under the chairmanship of local bodies minister Navjot Singh Sidhu. It has been tasked with identification of unauthorized occupation on government land and to suggest ways and means of getting such properties vacated in order to help the state government monetize them and raise the much-needed revenue.
 
 Other members of the subcommittee include finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal and rural development and panchayat minister Tripat Rajinder Singh Bajwa.
 
 
