NEW DELHI: At a time when NDA partners are unhappy with   over a host of reasons, Prime Minister   said his party’s very DNA is democratic and it believes in taking all “friends” along since the time of Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s rule.
 
  Speaking at the inauguration programme of BJP’s state-of-the-art headquarters at Deen Dayal Upadhyay Marg on Sunday, Modi emphasised that BJP and its predecessor   have been involved in all movements aimed at protecting nationalism post-Independence.
  
  “BJP’s DNA is cent per cent democratic,” Modi said, adding that all aspirations of the party are framed within the democratic ethos and underlined that these democratic values of BJP have been very useful in taking others along.
  
  “In a multi-party system, it was natural to have coalition politics. Joining hands or walking out for selfish reasons is different. But to take friends along a different attitude is required. Under the leadership of Atalji (then Prime Minister  ), a successful experiment of taking all partners along, balancing regional aspirations and awakening a new hope was done. This experiment also succeeded under BJP’s leadership,” Modi said.
  
  “The fundamental reason for its success is that democracy is in our veins and we are moving ahead with this,” he added. The prime minister also referred to the role of some political parties during the freedom struggle and those formed after the Independence. He hailed Jan Sangh for espousing an ideology and thought with clarity and facing all obstacles and challenges in its path. “We have never left those ideals and values. After Independence, all movements of national interest having a nationalist and patriotic hue were led by Jan Sangh and BJP. We are proud of that.
  
  Our party is steeped in nationalism,” PM Modi said. He lauded the contribution of BJP veteran LK Advani, among others, to the growth of the organisation.
  
  BJP chief   said the new headquarters is equipped to conduct video conferencing with all state and district offices of the party and telecast speeches and programmes of its senior leaders.
  
  The new headquarters spread over 1,70,000 square feet and having modern facilities has conference rooms, plush office rooms for its office-bearers, all the paraphernalia for the BJP IT Cell and its social media team.
  
