CHANDIGARH: Less than eight weeks after it began probe into the   Civil Services (judicial) selection exam paper leak, the special investigation team (SIT) on Friday filed chargesheet against scam mastermind candidate and former registrar of the Punjab and Haryana high court. The FIR in this case was registered on directions of HC after a petition exposed the wrongdoing.

 In the chargesheet, submitted in the court of Chandigarh duty magistrate, SIT has named Sunita as the mastermind of the scam, who managed to get copy of question paper from former HC registrar (recruitment) Balwinder  . The team has sought their prosecution under section 409 (criminal breach of trust by public servant, or by banker, merchant or agent) and 420 (cheating and dishonestly). They will also be tried for causing disappearance of evidence of offence, or giving false information to screen offender, and 120 B (criminal conspiracy) of IPC.
 
 In addition, section 8 (taking gratification, to influence public servant) section 9 (taking gratification, for exercise of personal influence with public servant), and section 13 (criminal misconduct by a public servant) of Prevention of Corruption Act are also mentioned.
 
 Sharma was arrested on December 28, 2017, from   after the HC ordered him to be shifted away from Chandigarh. Sunita, a lawyer, was arrested from Delhi on November 9, 2017.
 
 Running into 2,140 words, the chargesheet names 45 witness. SIT has made call details of the accused part of the document too. In addition, the shared mobile signal tower location of their cellphones also for major part of evidence submitted by SIT. These technical evidence were collected by the probe team as part of month-long investigation.
 
 On next date of hearing, a copy of chargesheet would be supplied to the accuse following which trial would begin.
 
 
 
 
 The Punjab and Haryana high court administration had started a probe into the allegations of leakage of preliminary examination for the recruitment of judicial officers in Haryana Civil Services (judicial branch). The probe has been ordered by the HC administration on the basis of a complaint received from Suman, a resident of Pinjore in   district.
 
 The alleged mastermind of the paper leak, 46-year-old Sunita, was arrested after Chandigarh’s Sector-3 police booked her and Balwinder Sharma along with Sushila, another candidate who took examination, in the paper leak case on September 19. Sunita and Sushila had topped the exam in different categories.
 
 
