KOLKATA: Over three weeks since the first samples were picked up by the   following allegations that meat retrieved from animal carcass disposed at dumpyards were being mixed with meat sold for human consumption, anxiety and confusion continues to prevail as the civic authority is yet to declare the test results.

 Till date, KMC food inspectors have collected over 30 samples of raw and cooked meat in four phases. According to civic health officials, the samples were sent to the State Forensic Laboratory (SFL). But there is no information on the results.
 
 The first batch of samples were collected from the Rajabazar-Sealdah belt on April 19. Apart from collecting raw samples from meat shops, food inspectors collected cooked meat from two restaurants located close to   station. These were sent to SFL that very day.
 
 Then, on April 26, a   joint team raided a warehouse at   following the interrogation of a person arrested in connection with the carcass meat trade. Several samples were seized and sent to SFL. Civic officials and police claimed carcass meat was stored there and later mixed with fresh meat for sale. Another drive was launched by the KMC and   at several hotels, restaurants and meat shops in the Beliaghata-Kankurgachi belt. Samples collected from there were also sent to SFL. Similar raids were conducted in the Alipore belt.
 
 Finally on May 11, KMC food inspectors accompanied a section of CID officers, who raided a warehouse near Maniktala police station, from where the sleuths seized 30 bags of frozen meat. These samples were sent to the state veterinary college in   for testing.
 
 Till date though, KMC has not disclosed what the results from the labs have been. A section of KMC health officials is upset over the silence. Senior officials said they were also unhappy with the delay in results from the labs. “The delay not only hampers appropriate action at our end, it also prolongs the uncertainty in the minds of consumers,” an official said.
 
 Some are even beginning to question the intent of the raids and allege they were simply an eyewash to convince people that KMC meant business.
 
 Atin Ghosh, MMiC overseeing the health department, conceded that delay in getting test results had hampered the civic drive but pointed out that given the pressure in government labs, results would take time.
 
 To avoid such delays, KMC is evaluating tie-ups with private labs that can provide the results fast. “We have spoken to some private labs to conduct tests at regular intervals,” a health department official said.
 
 
 
  
 
