Madurai: The   Madurai bench on Tuesday expressed concern at the safety of temples in the state in the wake of the fire in   temple. The bench suo motu impleaded the Archaeological Survey of India regional director, state’s tourism, culture and religious endowments department principal secretary as well as the director general of police of fire and rescue services in the case. They were directed to file reports on the steps taken to ensure the safety of people in temples and installation of firefighting equipment there. 

 The division bench of justices M Sathyanarayanan and R Tharani gave this direction while hearing a case filed by Abul Kalam Azad Sulthan of Kanyakumari. The petitioner had sought a direction to the commissioner of Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowment department to stop converting ancient temples into commercial establishments. He also wanted the portion damaged in the fire accident at Sri Meenakshi Sundareswarar temple to be restored and shops removed from the temple premises. 
 
 The petitioner said that at present 30,000 temples were governed by the HR&CE commissioner, most of which were ancient and of archeological importance. The HR&CE devoted more resources for making money and left the temples untended with the result that several ancient temples were in dilapidated condition. He said that the fire accident in Sri Meenakshi Sundareswarar temple was an example of the impact of this trend of commercialising temple premises. The HR&CE altered even superstructures dating back hundreds and and thousands of years, put additional structures and electrical equipment (AC) “without considering the glory of our culture, ancient history and tradition and above all the Ahamas”. Due to the unethical constructions and electrical equipment, fire accidents took place in various temples including in Thanjavur and Madurai temples, the petitioner said. 
 
 As far as the Madurai temple was concerned, the devotees, visitors and tourists were not permitted to carry any flammable objects. Despite this, a huge fire accident occurred from the shops. Hence, it was necessary to close all commercial shops constructed inside the temples and ancient structures, the petitioner said. When the bench asked the SGP about the developments, he told the court that a 12-member team had been constituted to probe and was considering closing down 415 shops, including the 300 at   and 115 shops in the  .
 
 
