GURUGRAM: A 42-year-old woman, a resident of Cyber City, DLF 2, has alleged that she was blackmailed into paying Rs 20 lakh to a foreigner who befriended her on social networking site Facebook. An FIR has been registered at women’s police station, in which she also claimed the accused had morphed her pictures to blackmail her.

 According to police, the complainant, a housewife, is married to a city-based businessman. She first came in contact with the accused around two years ago through Facebook. They became friends and started chatting on its Messenger app. Soon after that, the accused gained her trust and asked for her pictures. The woman sent him her pictures in good faith. 
 
 They also exchanged mobile numbers and would talk to each other. Things appeared to go well until early this year the accused sent the woman some morphed pictures of hers, and threatened to post them on the Internet in a bid to extort money from her.
 
 “He had been demanding money in exchange for my pictures which he had edited. For fear of defamation in society, I compromised and sent him money through online transactions. He had given me details of three different bank accounts through Facebook Messenger. After sending up to Rs 20 lakh in 7-8 transactions, I was fed up and decided to tell everything to my husband, who asked me to file a complaint with police,” the woman said in her police report. 
 
 As per the complaint, an FIR has been registered against the unidentified foreigner, under sections 354 D (stalking), 384 (extortion) and 420 (cheating) of IPC at the women’s police station on Saturday. “The accused is a foreigner but we have not been able to identify him yet. The complainant has said the accused had told her he is from  . The complainant’s phone records also show the accused had called her once from Malaysia. We have registered the case and are investigating all angles. We have sought details of all the bank transaction between the complainant and the accused,” said inspector  , SHO, women’s police station.
 
 
 
