TRICHY: Sports coaches, here on Sunday, said that they are striving to increase the number of   to be inducted under Sports Authority of India’s Centre of Excellence (COE) scheme.

 
 Speaking on the sidelines of a conference on ways to increase the number of TN schools participating in the Schools India Cup, coaches said that they would achieve this by making more number of schools in Trichy to register for it.
 
  The third edition of Schools India Cup, a national level sporting competition is conducted by an NGO, School Sports Promotion Foundation (SSPF) and   (SAI), from which the best performers would be selected for a national camp and through further screening, would be inducted into COE.
 
 Schools India Cup, in which more than two lakh students – aged between 10 and 18 from 10,000 schools are set to participate, will be held in five disciplines – athletics, football, cricket, volleyball, and basketball.
 
 State coordinator of SSPF for athletics, N Annavi, told TOI that the response from Trichy for the tournament has been good. “Already, 30 schools have expressed their interest to be a part of the competition. The main idea for us is to promote sports at the grass root level in Trichy,” he said.
 
 He also added that the coaches would be conducting multiple awareness drives among schools in Trichy and other rural areas in the district to participate in the tournament.
 
 On the other hand, Trichy district coordinator of SSPF for volleyball, B   said that there has been a lack of awareness about   for young sportsmen and he wishes to educate schools on this regard to encourage more school students to take sports more seriously. “I am looking at making at least 15 schools from the district participate in the Schools India Cup because it would mean that the best athletes would get to participate in the national camp and compete with the best sportsmen from across the country,” he said.
 
 The registration for participating in the tournament began on May 15 and will go on for two more months.Though Tamil Nadu didn’t participate in the first edition, in the second edition, they participated in athletics stream and won the championship.
 
