KOLKATA: A section of the winners of National Film Awards from   who had boycotted the May 2 ceremony in Delhi are now debating the possibility of a repeat of the same programme after Smriti Irani’s removal from the   (I&B). Even if that doesn’t happen, they are hoping to at least get some clarity on when or how they will get their awards.

 At least 10 members from the Bengal contingent had skipped the ceremony after a controversy over the awards - widely regarded as bureaucratic mishandling - broke out when I&B ministry officials had sought to blame the Rashtrapati Bhawan for a last-minute change in programme. What added to the embarrassment was the clarification issued by the President’s office that any claim that the President’s programme was decided at the “eleventh hour” was wrong.
 
 While a message sent to   from TOI on the Bengal brigade’s reaction didn’t get a reply, the latter remains divided over whether or not to connect the removal with the awards fiasco. Said “Nagarkirtan” director Kaushik Ganguly, “It is an internal political decision. I don’t want to connect the two.” One of the three directors of “Girija” – Debapriya Adhikary – doesn’t see Irani’s ouster as a “reward” for their protest. “I have no malice against her. I am not connecting the two incidents,” Adhikary said.
 
 However, director Indrani Chakraborty, whose ‘Ladakh Chale Rickshawala’ bagged the Best Exploration/Adventure Film, differed. “The mess regarding our awards was absolutely because of the incompetence of the I&B ministry helmed by Irani. I had expected her ouster,” she said. Agreed “I Am Bonnie” co-director Sourabh Kanti Dutta saying Irani’s ouster had something to do with how she handled the ceremony. “She was the one who had come to talk to us. While we had tried to tell her about the discrimination issue, it’s sad that she didn’t seem to understand our logic. I hope the ministry handles crisis situations better in future. I have got the prize money from the ministry but don’t know when or how the citation will reach me,” Dutta said.
 
 According to Chakraborty, in a Whatsapp group of National Award winners who didn’t receive their awards, some have hoped that they will be honoured properly now that a new minister is in charge. “However, I don’t think that the government will be humble enough to do that. I’m wondering what will happen to my Rajat Kamal,” Chakraborty said.
 
 Meanwhile, “Mayurakshi” director Atanu Ghosh said the Cabinet reshuffle isn’t relevant. “That’s not relevant to our cause. We have lost our moment of glory. I need to know if the 64-year-old tradition was broken by accident or with a specific motive. I deeply empathise with many who had taken their old parents along and returned empty-handed,” Ghosh said.
 
 Costume designer Gobinda Mondal of “Nagarkirtan” had taken his mother Mangala along with him to attend the Delhi programme. “It was my mother’s maiden experience on a flight. Though sad for not being able to attend the ceremony, she supported our protest. I have no personal enmity against Irani. Whether she stayed on or left is none of my concern. I didn’t like the way the ministry handled the ceremony.”
 
 Even 13 days after the Delhi programme, Mondal doesn’t have a clue over how or when he will get his award. “It would be great if the ministry now organises another programme for those like us. However, I doubt if that will happen. In any case, I would want to know how I can finally get the award in my hand.”
 
 Sani Ghosh Roy from Acropolis Entertainment that produced “Nagarkirtan” isn’t optimistic about the ministry holding another event to make amends. “But, I am hoping that we will now have clarity on when we shall receive the award,” Ghosh Roy said.
 
