Ludhiana: Taxation experts of the state are up in arms against the state government’s decision it announced on Friday as per which it would impose Rs 200 per month as professional tax on all tax-payers. Several associations of taxation advocates and chartered accountants have condemned the decision claiming it would put an extra burden on citizens. 

 Terming it to be a big setback for small tax-payers, they demanded that the deciand therefore, the professional tax be rolled back with immediate effect.
 
 Punjab Tax Bar Association (PTBA) president Ashok Juneja said, “The levy of professional tax by the Punjab government is unjustified. Moreover, this is like interfering in the jurisdiction of the central government, as how can a state government levy professional tax on an income tax payee? This kind of tax will once again lead to the start of the multi-tax system, which was abolished after the imposition of Goods and Services Tax (GST) in the country. We strongly condemn this decision of the state government and demand for its immediate rollback.”
 
 Speaking to TOI, PTBA secretary-general BR Kaushal said, “As per the decision of the state government, a resident of Punjab who pays even Rs 1 as income tax will have to bear the burden of Rs 2,400 per year. How can the state government justify its decision when there is a very large number of tax-payers, especially pensioners, whose income tax liability for the entire year is very marginal. The finance minister should think sympathetically about such lower middle and middle classes, and reconsider his decision.”
 
 According to Ankur Gupta, a Ludhiana-based chartered accountant: “This is a surprising decision, especially at a time when people of the state were looking forward for reliefs from the government. Undoubtedly, it will put an extra burden on tax-payers and cause a lot of hassles, because as per the finance minister’s announcement, tax will be levied on a monthly basis. And every month, tax-payers will have to deposit Rs 200.” 
 
 
