KOZHIKODE: The source of the   that killed 12 persons in   continues to be elusive as the samples collected from bats found in a well at Chengaroth in Perambra have tested negative at the National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases ( ) in Bhopal.

 
 The   found clinging to the well were caught under the assumption that they could be the source of infection. Two persons Muhammad Sabith and P K Salih, who died of Nipah, had engaged in cleaning the well.
 
 Frugivorous bats (Pteropus), commonly known as flying foxes are natural hosts of   virus.
 
 A team comprising officials of the departments of animal husbandry, and forest had collected samples of three insect-eating bats from the well to trace the source.
 
 The team had also collected samples of five cattle, five goats and five pigs within fivekilometre radius of the epicentre and sent them to NIHSAD last Tuesday.
 
 After the results of these tests were proven negative, the authorities have decided to collect the samples of fruit-eating bats from the area. There was a suspicion that the samples collected earlier will be tested negative as the insect-eating bats are not known to be the carriers of Nipah virus.
 
 A C Mohandas, district animal husbandry officer, said that total of 50 samples of droppings of fruit-eating bats will be collected. “We hope to send the samples by May 28,” he said.
 
 Dr G Arunkumar, head, Manipal Centre for Virus Research, said the team is probing all possible sources of infection. Asked whether travel details of Sabith, the first person to die of infection, will be examined, he said every possibility will be examined.
 
 “We are told that Sabith returned from the Gulf seven months ago. The contacts of all those infected with the virus will be checked thoroughly,” he said.
 
 Animal Husbandry Department (AHD) director N N Sasi said steps have been taken to capture frugivorous bats.
 
 “We are also monitoring disease symptoms in animals in the neighbouring areas around the epicentre of outbreak. Samples of frugivorous bats will be sent to Pune and Bhopal. Samples collected from animals with disease symptoms will be sent to Bhopal,'' said N N Sasi.
 
 All the 21 samples of cattle, pigs, goats and bats have tested negative at the National institute of high security animal diseases, Bhopal.
 
 “We also need to do a scientific investigation based on case 1 patient. It needs a process of backtracking and we are in talks with health department and disease specialists,” said N N Sasi.
 
 AHD had earlier collected samples of pigs, goats, cows and insectivorous bats from Perambra and Chakkittapara and samples were handed over to two scientists from NIHSAD.
 
