NOIDA: For the past three days, commuters at the   are witnessing congestion due to the lack of coordination between the   and traffic police over the development in the project.

 A 30-metre stretch of the   intersection was closed for traffic for almost a year due to digging work and laying of sewer lines where an underpass is being constructed between Sectors 25 A, 24, 33 and 32.
 
 The work, which was to be completed in three months, took a year due to the hurdles faced by the construction firm as a major sewer line was passing under the spot while a Ganga Jal line passing near the City Centre also had to be shifted from the spot.
 
 Work on the Sector 60-Nithari stretch took almost a year to be complete but is finally done. Now, digging work has started at the other carriageway (Nithari-Sector 60) now.
 
 On Monday, the company officials undertaking the work on the underpass shifted to the second carriageway without informing the traffic police.
 
 With no traffic police officer on ground to manage traffic, commuters from both sides tend to merge at the intersection, leading to chaos during peak hours.
 
 On Tuesday too, commuters approaching from Nithari and going towards Sector 62 and vice versa could be seen merging at the spot as there was only a single lane for traffic coming from both sides.
 
 Things were worse on Wednesday when digging work started on the second spot, even as construction continued at the main intersection near the Prakash hospital.
 
 Commuters travelling from Nithari towards Sector 60 and beyond had to battle slow traffic throughout the day especially during the peak hours.
 
 When contacted, traffic police were unaware of the situation. “We have no information about the digging work being completed on one side and shifting to another. We have received no such letter from anyone,” SP (traffic) Anil Jha told TOI.
 
 When contacted, an official of the company NKG Infrastructure, the company which is building the underpass, told TOI that the underpass will take at least another six months to complete.
 
 The project is being handled by work circle 2 of the Noida Authority but officials are yet to comment on the matter.
 
 
