VADODARA: In a surprising move, the ministry of railways has asked the M   to terminate the   signed between National Academy of the Indian Railway ( ), Vadodara and the varsity in 2016 for MBA programme at the Faculty of Management Studies (FMS). 

 It was in August 2016 that NAIR and MSU had signed the MoU to run the MBA programme for railway officers at FMS after which the faculty had enrolled the first batch in the programme. Even as this batch is currently enrolled at FMS, the ministry has sent the letter to MSU to terminate the programme. 
 
 MSU officials confirmed that they have received the letter from the railways on January 8 regarding termination and the same will be placed for discussion before syndicate members during their meeting on Monday. 
 
 “We have been informed that ministry of railways has decided to discontinue the MBA programme and that no new batches should be enrolled for this course,” said professor  , registrar (officer on special duty) at MSU.
 
 The letter is surprising given that it does not mention or state any reason for terminating the programme. MSU officials, however, said that currently 24 officers are enrolled in the MBA programme. 
 
 “The batch will complete its full programme of two years on February 19, 2019 and they will be awarded degrees as per the MoU,” she said. 
 
 MSU officials believe that the railways might have decided to discontinue the programme at MSU as the ministry itself is setting up the   ( ) in Vadodara at NAIR campus. 
 
 Touted to be first railway university in the country, NRTU is expected to launch its first academic programme in July this year. 
 
 But the fact also remains that the MBA programme was running into troubles as the university had neither collected fees from students enrolled in the programme nor paid due remuneration to visiting faculties who were teaching them. 
 
 Jaiswal, however, said that although there was delay, fees was collected from students and due remuneration was also paid to teaching staff. 
 
 
