MUMBAI/NASHIK: A delegation of Shiv   ministers met chief minister   before the state cabinet meeting on Tuesday to demand the suspension and expulsion of   MLA  , arrested on Monday following the death of two local Sena leaders in Ahmednagar.

 Kardile has been accused of involvement in the ransacking of the superintendent of police’s office in Ahmednagar and forcibly taking away his son-inlaw, NCP MLA Sangram Jagtap, who had been detained in the SP’s office on Saturday after the killings.
 
  
  
 The   police station on Tuesday also registered a case against nearly 600 Shiv Sena men from Ahmednagar, including various leaders, for allegedly targeting police and local residents immediately after the murders. The case was registered under Section 308 (attempt to commit culpable homicide) and other sections of the Indian Penal Code.
 
 Fadnavis told the Sena mantris the arrested BJP MLA’s suspension “looks difficult,” minister Ramdas Kadam, who was part of the delegation, claimed. Fadnavis said an inquiry will be conducted by director general of police Bipin Bihari in the case.
 
 Kadam also demanded the case against Sainiks be immediately withdrawn. “We are extremely peeved with Ahmednagar police for registering the case,” he said.
 
 Two local Sena leaders, Sanjay Kotkar and Vasant Thube, were murdered on Saturday in Kedgaon area of Ahmednagar. The killings took place after the result of the Kedgaon civic bypoll was out. The bypoll was won by the Congress’s Vishal Kotkar, who defeated Sena nominee Vijay Pathare.
 
 Police arrested NCP legislator Sangram Jagtap and three others on Sunday for the murders. In the FIR, 26 others have been named in connection with the killings, including two other lawmakers, BJP MLA from Rahuri, Kardile, and NCP MLC  . All three families – Kardile, Jagtap and Kotkar – are related.
 
 The Sainiks were booked after a local policem an lodged a complaint against 67 Sena leaders of the Ahmednagar unit, including its chief Dilip Satpute, and over 500 unidentified Sainiks. “After the incident, those named in the FIR gathered at the crime spot and protested violently. Stones were pelted at police personnel and local residences. Policemen were heckled and attempts made to kill some cops,” the complaint said.
 
 Kadam accused BJP, NCP and Congress of working in unison to try and decimate the Sena in Ahmednagar. “Police did not slap stringent charges against those who ransacked the SP’s office. But they have booked our party workers under stringent IPC sections. This is gross injustice,” he said.
 
 Sena local unit chief Satpute said that a mob had gathered after the killings and local citizens, friends and well-wishers of the victims were a part of it. “The people’s reaction was a spontaneous outburst,” he said, denying Sena workers had targeted the police.
 
