The mood at   was jubilant, with over 1,000   participating in the annual Kreeda-Olympics For Special Children. The event, by   of Madras Fort, was even more special this year as it had special children participating from across  . With two events — running and ball throw — being conducted, almost every other participant went away with medals.  , president of the club, says, “This is our ninth year and we wanted to do something special. Usually, we have about 300-odd students participating in this competition. But we wanted to make it big and invited special children from across the state. We reached out to the schools several weeks in advance and the schools’ coaches have been giving them training. On the day of the event, all the children were all charged up about participating in the sporting events.”

 Since 1,000 children had participated, Sumathi conducted multiple events at the same venue. “We didn’t want the children to sit idle. So, we conducted games at four different places at the venue. We divided the kids into different levels to make it easier. Children in the age group 6-15 took part in all the events,” she says. MS  , Asia Pacific Senior Sports Manager For Special  , who was the competition director for this event, says, “There were four categories based on age-groups of the children: below 8, 8-11 and 12-15 years took part in the event. Everyone present at the event had two chances to compete. So, everyone was eventually a winner in one event or the other. Apart from the age groups, we also divided them according to gender and capability. For instance, we conducted 50m race for children below eight years of age. Also, the running races were divided into two — one for those running fast, and one for those who ran a little slower. This way, everyone could be accommodated. We had a separate race and ball throw for children with multiple disabilities. It is not fair to put them all into one category, so all of them were divided according to their abilities.” 
 
 Prior training played an important role, says Nagarajan. “Training and orientation programmes were conducted prior to the event. So, coaches from the respective schools were given a brief on what will be expected of the students the event. Apart from the schools that volunteered to participate in the event, we even had some surprise last minute entries,” he says. 
 
 And the participation has only motivated the students, he says, “Nobody is a loser. Everyone proved their mettle in some event or the other, eventually walking away with a medal. We believe that this added a strong therapeutic value to the students and that this was something that we achieved without any medicine. It gave them recognition and boosted their self-esteem making the parents, too, happy in the process.” 
 
 Apart from the competition, Sumathi says that they created a festival mood for the kids. “We gave them plenty of snacks, stationery kits, school bags with books, and so on. We also had a tattoo zone and play area. All the students were provided lunch. It looked more like a carnival. These things only motivate the kids, help them find new friendships and relaxes them,” she signs off.
 
