Pastels are elegant, here’s how to make them edgy.

 Thanks to the much-talked and widely-covered Virushka wedding, pastels are back in vogue – way before the spring-summer season had been ushered in. Both Virat Kohli and Anushka Sharma’s wedding ensemble and setting was a highpoint for pastel chic with soothing shades of lavender, soft pink, butter yellow and powder blue. Yes, there is something soft, romantic, and ethereal about pastels – a spring-summer staple. 
 
 What changes with each season is ways of sporting them – colour combinations, trends, tailoring etc. Pastels, if done right, look luxurious. There is gentleness to the colours and they remind you of all good things cool and summery, like ice-creams, sorbets and candies. On the runway, pastels are being adopted everywhere from New York and London to India. While Victoria Beckham displayed how to use violet hues from head to toe, Hermès opted for lemon sorbet and Thornton Bregazzi demonstrated how to nail shades of pink and green with one-shouldered dresses and drapes. Closer home, designers like Anushree Reddy and Anita Dongre never fail to bring out the magic of pastels. 
 
 
 
 Best part about pastels? You can wear it everywhere – from your office and brunch gatherings to your intimate dates, cocktail parties or a night in town. They can be practically worn any time of the year, irrespective of the season. Depending on the occasion, you can make these shades look stylish, bohemian, edgy, rocker-style, glamourous or feminine. Designer Pooja Sachan says pastel colour blocking oozes style and sophistication. “Pick pastel on top or bottom and stick to single colours instead of prints. Two pieces from the same colour in different shades also work,” she says. 
 You can also sport pastels with brights. For example, a light aqua dress with a pop of fuchsia jacket is a perfect pair. Also, pastels go well with white or black pieces. “Wearing pastels with a black piece creates a modern, polished look. White helps to enhance the softness and femininity of pastel hues,” Sachan says. But never overdo the sugary trend. You’ll end up looking like a pastry shop.
 
 
 
 Baby blue, duck egg yellow, milk caramel, banana, velvety peach, pale pink, powdery mint, guava, lavender – the cooling effect of these delicious-looking shades can instantly cheer you up. To look your best in pastels, make sure to pick the right shade to suit your skin tone. Designer Naina Jain says, “If you are fair-skinned with warm undertones, shades like lavender, pale orange and baby blue are your friends. Those with wheatish skin can go for pastels like dove grey, buttery yellow, light pink and mint green. Pastel yellows and lavenders can look incredible on dark skin tones.”
 
 
 
 When wearing pastel colour, your choice of fabrics matter. “To make shades like peach and blush pinks refined and conventional, go for soft plush fabrics like organzas, pure silks and khadi cotton. Also, little pastels work perfectly with classic florals and threadwork embroidery,” says designer Anushree Reddy.
 
  
  
 Left: Pastel-hued embroidery add an interesting element to your look.
 Center: Indianwear is a good way to follow the pastel trend. Keep the fabric sheer for a luxe effect.
 Right: Light pastel prints work best for daywear
 
 Dream Diamond Delhi Times Fashion Week/  
 
 
