Ludhiana: Canadian prime minister Justin Trudeau has invited a Ludhiana born NRI and his wife for dinner reception celebrating Canada-India ties at New Delhi on February 22. Sherjang Singh Rana, president and CEO, Punjab Insurance Inc and his wife Hapreet Kaur Rana are household names in the insurance sector in Canada. Punjab Insurance, which was created in 2006 by co-owners Sherjang Singh Rana and Sandeep Ahuja, successfully runs six offices coast to coast. 

 “A few days ago, we received an invitation from the high commissioner for Canada in India inviting us for dinner reception on the occasion of the visit of prime minister Justin Trudeau at Canada House in New Delhi on February 22. I and my wife are accompanying the prime minister to India and will be with him in Mumbai, Delhi and Amritsar. It is an honour for us that NRIs from Ludhiana are being invited for dinner on behalf of the Canadian prime minister and are accompanying him as well”, said Rana, who lives in Indira Nagar area of the city and has his ancestral house in Khumna Near Khanna. 
 
 He said they are looking forward to the India visit and will raise the issue of jobs for Punjabis in general and Ludhianvis in particular with the prime minister in India, apart from educational opportunities for them. 
 
 Sherjang Singh Rana was born in Ludhiana and studied here up to his graduation. He did LLB from Maharshi Dayanand College, Sri Ganganagar. In 1996, he went to Canada and in 2006, he established Punjab Insurance in Toronto. Today, offices are located in major cities of Canada like Surrey, Abbotsford, Calgary, Edmonton and Winnipeg.
 
 Harpreet Kaur Rana, his wife is the marketing director of Punjab Insurance. She went to Canada in 2003. 
 
 Meanwhile, their relatives in the city are excited at the upcoming visit. “They will be accompanying the prime minister of Canada and will land in Delhi before going to Mumbai and Amritsar. My sister told me she and my brother-in-law will come to Ludhiana as well. We are preparing for their visit. As they are foodies, we will arrange special Punjabi food for them”, said Ravjot Singh, Harpreet’s brother, who lives in BRS Nagar.
 
 
