MUMBAI: Six years after the brutal murder of 24-year-old model and aspiring actor  , a sessions court on Wednesday convicted two model coordinators for her death. The prosecution had alleged that the duo,   (41) who is also an advocate and his fiancé,   (32), from UP, killed and beheaded her in a bid to extort Rs 15 lakh from her family as Thapa had told them that she belonged to a rich Nepalese family and acting was a hobby for her.

 
  
  
 
 
 Judge SG Shete will pronounce the quantum of sentence on Thursday after special public prosecutor Ujjwal Nikam and defence present arguments on quantum of sentence. 
 
 The prosecution had alleged that on March 13, 2012 the duo took Thapa to Allahabad, convincing her that she had a shoot there. It was alleged that they strangled and beheaded her and then dumped the body in a tank in Allahabad. The prosecution had said that they had thrown the head from a bus between Allahabad and Lucknow. The duo were arrested from the city on April 14, 2012.
 
 Nikam said said the case was mainly based on circumstantial evidence. Call Data Records and statements of several witnesses led cops to the accused after a missing person complaint was registered by Amboli police. 
 
 Nikam said 36 witnesses deposed during the trial. This included the victim’s close friend Alok Verma who said Thapa told him on March 12, 2012 that she was going to Gorakhpur for a shoot with the duo. he said that the following morning, Thapa introduced him to the duo at LTT station. Accused Surin’s father also deposed that Thapa had arrived at his house on the night of March 14, 2012 with his daughter and the co-accused. 
 
 Thapa’s mother Kamala said that on March 14, 2012, Thapa called her and said she had reached Allahabad and that they would be staying at Priti’s house till dinner. Thereafter her phone was switched off. The mother said that on March 15, 2012 she received a text from Thapa’s mobile asking her to deposit Rs 10,000 for recharging her phone. She said that on March 17, 2012, her daughter-in-law messaged Thapa telling her that the family was worried about her and would lodge a complaint soon. The mother said she then received a message from Thapa’s phone that if she didn’t deposit Rs 15 lakh in Thapa’s account within three days, her daughter’s obscene MMS would be published on the internet. 
 
 On March 20, 2012 the family lodged a complaint with Dehradun police. Three days later Kamala again received a text about the money demand and on March 28, 2012 she received five such messages. The messages continued until April 2, 2012. 
 
 Subsequently, a complaint was also lodged at Amboli police station in Mumbai. After the arrests of the accused, Kamala learnt that Rs 46,000 was withdrawn by the accused from her daughter’s account. 
 
 
