PATNA: Medical experts have cautioned people against popping   without medical prescription, especially during the summer.

 According to health experts, high temperature causes stomach related issues or digestive ailments. In a bid to find quick relief, people buy anti-acidity drugs, often the most potent ones, over the counter, which is a dangerous trend.
 
 The process of digestion involves the breakdown of food through the hydrochloric acid, which is naturally present in stomach. Health experts said frequent use of anti-acidity drugs can neutralize the effect of hydrochloric acid produced naturally by the stomach and alter the entire process of digestion. This can also cause kidney damage and osteoporosis.
 
 “Regular use of such drugs without the supervision of professionals can alter the absorption of important elements like zinc, iron and chromium. The production of digestive enzymes will be hampered and, in the worst case, it can lead to kidney damage,” said city-based physician Dr Diwakar Tejashwi.
 
 According to medical experts, anti-acidity drugs are mainly of three types – stomach acid neutralisers, or antacids that provide quick relief in the short term; H2 blockers that provide relief for up to 12 hours by inhibiting histamine, the stimulus for acid production in the stomach; and PPIs that produce greater acid suppression by preventing the acid from being secreted into the stomach. 
 
 Doctors have advised people to prefer natural eatables like bananas, melons and coconut water to avoid the chances of   during the hot days. Dr Ramesh Kumar, a gastroenterologist at   ( ), Patna, said the main reason behind stomach related ailments during summer was consumption of substandard edibles from roadside eateries.
 
 “Water and food-borne bacterial infections, especially amoebic dysentery and diarrhoea, increase manifold during this time of the year. The major symptoms of such diseases are vomiting, food poisoning, loss of appetite, dehydration, constipation, heartburn, bloating and low blood pressure. To avoid such risks, one can avoid eating fried food items, cheese and the ones containing citric acids like tomatoes, tea, colas, coffee, as it can cause heartburn,” Dr Ramesh said.
 
 He added small precautions can curb the risk of such diseases. “Eating stale food, irregular meals and overeating can often lead to indigestion. Keep well hydrated and look for mineral water which contains bicarbonate as this aids digestion and reduces acidity,” advised Dr Ramesh.
 
 According to general physician at AIIMS-Patna, Dr Ravi Kirti, mild digestion syrups can be taken in case of extreme restlessness as they protect the stomach lining and provide instant comfort to unbearable gastric symptoms. “One should carry rehydrating salts before moving out in sun, by adding six teaspoons of sugar and half teaspoon of salt to a litre of water. Instead of relying on medicines, people should consume seasonal fruits and vegetables to keep their stomachs happy,” Dr Kirti said.
 
 
