JAIPUR/ALWAR: At least 27 persons were killed and over 100 injured as strong winds and dust storms hit Alwar,   and Dholpur districts, leaving a trail of destruction and uprooting hundreds of trees on Wednesday evening. 

 
 Jaipur too witnessed a dust   like other parts of the state. While nine people died in Bharatpur, three each lost their lives in Alwar and Bharatpur.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 In Karauli, the wall of a building collapsed, injuring two women and three children. They were rushed to  's government hospital.
 
 Besides, Jhunjhunu too reported deaths of two people when a house collapsed due to the dust storm. Incidents of fire, reported from Dholpur, added to the worries of district administration.
 
 Major destruction was reported from Alwar as the entire district plunged into darkness after the power department cut electricity supply when electricity poles fell snapping power cables.
 
 At   of   police station of Alwar district, 25-year-old Rakesh Jangid succumbed to injuries which he suffered due to falling tree. He belonged to the Barkheda area of the district. At least 20 others suffered injuries and were rushed to   for treatment.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 Alwar district collector Rajan Vishal said, “Five persons have died in different incidents due to the dust storm. We have alerted health department officials, including doctors, power department and district administration officials to provide treatment to those injured and repair the damage caused by the storm in the district.”
 
 Several other incidents of destruction were reported from various parts of the state. A person who was travelling in a car died after a tree fell on the vehicle in Alwar city. Two others in the car suffered injuries. Police rushed to the spot and pulled the injured out from the damaged car after breaking the window.
 
 According to police, the three, residents of Hindaun City, had come to Ramgarh in Alwar city to purchase statues. Forty five-year-old Mukesh Agarwal died on the spot.
 
 A JCB was deployed to clear the Alwar-Ramgarh route after traffic was disrupted due to fallen trees.
 
 A 12-year-old girl, Muskaan, died when an iron sheet hit her head due to strong winds. Her father works in a factory as a labourer. The incident happened in Behror.
 
 The storm also took its toll on Bharatpur district. SP Anil Tank told TOI that rescue efforts were going on. “We have sent our teams to different locations. Rescue teams have also been called in,” he said.
 
 Six persons died in two incidents of building collapse in Bharatpur, while two died in Dholpur when roof of a building collapsed. Four others were injured in the incident at Ambedkar Nagar. In Dholpur, three people were extricated from under the debris of a house in Mohan Colony and rushed to hospital for treatment.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
