HYDERABAD: In a major shake up of bureaucracy to tone up administration ahead of 2019 assembly polls, the state government on Tuesday night transferred over 30 IAS officers, including special chief secretaries. Among those eased out were some district collectors who were on a collision course with ruling party MLAs and ministers.

 The government transferred Mahabubabad collector Preeti Meena and Jangaon collector Deva Sena. Likewise, the district collectors of Yadadri-Bhongir, Medak, Bhupalapalli have also been shifted out. All these IAS officers had refused to toe the line of local MLAs and TRS leaders.
 
 In another significant transfer, the TRS government shifted senior IAS officer BR Meena, special chief secretary of revenue department and posted him as secretary of Telangana SC ST Commission. Sources said Meena and IAS officers in the chief minister's office were not on good terms with each other.
 
  
 In major reshuffle, Chandravadan shunted out , Somesh Kumar gets addl excise charge
 
 Excise commissioner   has been shunted out due to differences with commercial taxes and excise principal secretary Somesh Kumar, who has been given additional charge of excise commissioner until another officer is appointed.
 
 Animal husbandry department special chief secretary Suresh Chanda has been transferred as he was being very strict with sheep distribution scheme. He has been posted as member secretary Telangana State Finance Commission.
 
 A Santi Kumari, principle secretary to CM, has been given additional charge as principal secretary to health medical and family welfare department. Rajeshwar Tiwari, special chief secretary to the department has been posted as special chief secretary to Government (Revenue and R&S), revenue department, in the vacancy arisen due to transfer of BR Meena.
 
 Arvind Kumar, resident commissioner, Telangana Bhavan, New Delhi, has been posted as principal secretary, MA&UD department. His post will be taken over by G Asok Kumar, principal secretary, BCW department. B Venkatesham, secretary, YAT&C department, has been posted as secretary, BCW department.
 
  has been posted as commissioner, Collegiate Education and Technical Education, relieving A Vani Prasad. RV Chandravadan, commissioner, prohibition and excise, has been posted as commissioner and EO secretary, revenue (Disaster Management) department. Somesh Kumar, principal secretary, revenue (CT & Ex) department will now be prohibition and excise commissioner.
 
 Sandeep Kumar Sultania, secretary, finance department, has been posted as secretary, AHDD&F department, in the vacancy arisen due to transfer of Suresh Chanda, who has been posted as State Finance Commission secretary.
 
 Anita Rajendra, secretary, home department, will now be commissioner, BC Welfare and secretary of BC Commission. Syed Omal Jaleel, secretary, minorities welfare department, has been posted as collector and district magistrate of Vikarabad, duly relieving M Raghunandan Rao.
 
 M Dana Kishore, MD of HMWS&SB, has been posted as secretary, minorities welfare department. Dr. Christina Z. Chongthu, managing director of Telangana State Tourism Development Corporation has been posted as commissioner, Tribal Welfare, in place of R Laxman, IRS.
 
 Dr. Jyoti Budha Prakash, who was waiting for posting, will now be secretary, SC Development Department, duly relieving Ajay Misra. Vakati Karuna, director, public health and family welfare, has been additionally posted as director, Land Administration.
 
 Dr. K Ilambarithi, who was awaiting posting, will now be secretary, State Information Commission. Similarly, M Champalal has been posted as joint secretary, home ( ) department.
 
 M R M Rao, joint secretary, PR&RD department, has been transferred and posted as collector and district magistrate of Nizamabad. Devasena, collector and district magistrate of Jangaon will now take over similar posting in Peddapalli, relieving R V Karnan. Anita Ramachandran, collector and district magistrate of Yadadri-Bhongir, has been shifted to Jangaon.
 
 A Murali, collector and district magistrate of Jayashankar-Bhupalapally, has been transferred and posted as director, State Archives. Bharati Hollikeri, collector and district magistrate of Medak, will now work as additional commissioner, GHMC, duly placing Manicka Raj, collector and district magistrate of   in full additional charge as Medak collector and district magistrate.
 
 Dr Preeti Meena, collector and district magistrate, Mahabubabad, has been posted as director, AIDS Control Society, duly placing Lokesh Kumar, collector and district magistrate, Khammam, in full additional charge of collector and district magistrate, Mahabubabad.
 
 Killu Shiva Kumar Naidu, joint collector and additional district magistrate, Mahaboobnagar, has been transferred and posted as secretary, State Planning Board. Khartade Kalicharan Sudamrao, secretary to CCLA, has been transferred and posted as officer on special duty, Telangana Bhavan, New Delhi.
 
 
