LUDHIANA: While on the one hand, ticket aspirants are struggling to manage tickets from the party from Ward No.55, the   ( ) is likely to support an independent ex-councillor   Jassa, because nobody from the party wants to contest from this seat. Sources revealed that the party had now decided to support an independent candidate for giving a tough fight to   candidates. The party is expected to announce its second list of remaining 16 candidates, most probably by Sunday.

 Sources in BJP also revealed that in the second list, the party could also give a ticket to Kiranpreet Kaur, daughter-in-law of Jasbir Singh from Ward No.53. Also, Jassa is supporting the BJP in many other seats for registering a victory against Congress candidates. In the last elections, the BJP candidate from this ward could secure only 750 seats, and leaders also admitted the fact that the party does not get votes here. However, BJP leaders are refusing to comment on the issue. BJP district president Ravinder Arora said: “The party is yet to issue its second list, and before that, it would be difficult to disclose anything.”
 
 Meanwhile, independent ex-councillor Jasbir Singh Jassa said since candidates from the BJP did not want to contest elections from this seat, the party was left with no other option, but to support the independent councillor. He said they had supported BJP candidates in assembly elections as well, and even in   polls, they would support some of their candidates.
 
 The leaders are busy making a consensus over the second list, as the party had already issued a list of 31 candidates. In the rest of the 16 seats, aspirants were trying all possible means to get a ticket. Some aspirants are now trying to get tickets through RSS leaders, which increases the troubles of the election committee. On Saturday, throughout the day, discussion continued among party leaders to decide the suitable candidates. Already, BJP has taken three candidates from Akali Dal in three wards due to shortage of candidates.
 
 
