Mangaluru: Mangalurean tweetarati have warmed up to former Indian cricketer  , after he tweeted in support of the assent to the rural sport received from the President of India.

 President Ram Nath Kovind on Monday approved the   (Karnataka Amendment) Bill making   a legal rural sport in Karnataka. The Karnataka government had promulgated the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (Karnataka Amendment) Ordinance, 2017, on July 20 last year, after getting the approval for the sport from the then President Pranab Mukherjee on July 3.
 
 Batting for traditional sport, Virender Sehwag tweeted: “All Clear Signal for Kambala is great news. Rural sport needs to be preserved. Great that #Kambala bill got President's approval, making Kambala a legal rural sport in Karnataka. Greater that it escaped a hypocritical organization’s attempt to block avenues which rejuvenate the youth.
 
 Sehwag batting for Kambala has left netizens from coastal Karnataka happy and elated. A tweeter user, Sharath Kumar‏, posted in reply to the cricketer’s tweet: “First of all, it’s not an entertainment. It’s our culture from ages. If you do not know, feel free to come to Mangalore. It’s has devotional attachments. Our Kambula.”
 
 Pavan Kumar Shetty replied: “Thanks Viruji for your support. It’s a great boost to all the Kambala lovers !!”
 
 Another user, Vedavyas Pai, replied in a tweet: “Watched #Kambala in a small town called   recently. The bulls definitely live a more royal life than I do. It is more like a festival to us Kannadigas, Tulu and   speaking people alike!”
 
 Some of the tweetaratis invited Sehwag to   to watch Kambala. The cricketer had come to Mangaluru few years ago.
 
 Efforts on to stop Kambala
 
 Meanwhile, the   India CEO stated that PETA India will now be examining the act and continuing its efforts to stop Kambala. “PETA India has already challenged the constitutional validity of similar acts passed by the Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra governments, allowing jallikattu and bullock cart races, respectively. The matter has now been referred to a 5-judge Constitution bench, which is expected to be heard soon,” the CEO said.
 
 
