GURUGRAM: The 33-year-old man, who was picked up in   and brought to the city in connection with a Rs 283-crore   fraud, was the brain behind the scam, police said on Tuesday after the first round of interrogation.

 Investigators further said that Sanjay Mewara, originally from   in Shajapur (Madhya Pradesh), had duped over two lakh people through as many as 167 branches set up in cities across the country between 2008 and 2017. 
 
 In Gurugram, he cheated 5,500-odd investors of Rs 9 crore through his chit fund firm Sriram Real Estate and Business Solution Private Ltd in Sohna.
 
 According to the police, Mewara, a science graduate, had started his chit fund business in 2008. Upbeat over a successful run in Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Rajasthan, Himachal Pradesh, Maharashtra and Andhra Pradesh, he had set up a shop in Sohna in 2012. 
 
 He managed to lure thousands of gullible investors, promising double return in five years. When the number of investors shot up, he offered triple return in six-and-a-half years. Police also said Sriram Real Estate and Business Solution Private Ltd was only one of the numerous companies he had set up to cheat people.
 
 Ananya Group of Companies, Herbal Fleet, Sai Ram Buildtech, Shree Ram Private Ltd and Samariya Group are some of the other chit fund firms he had set up and eventually shut down after cheating investors.
 
 In Gurugram, the police got a whiff of the scam in August last year when around 20 investors lodged complaints against Sriram Real Estate, Mewara and other company officials including chairman Deepak Kumar Dhangi and directors Mohsin Hussain, Talib Hussain, Muhshid Khan, Rajesh Kumar, Arvinder Singh and Hans Raj. But even before the economic offences wing swung into action, the accused shut down their office in Sohna and fled with the investors’ money. 
 
 While four of the accused were arrested earlier, Mewara was picked up by the police recently. Interrogation later revealed that Mewara had purchased properties worth Rs 18 crore in Bhopal. 
 
 These apart, he had bought properties in Rajasthan and Andhra Pradesh with the money collected from investors. 
 
 On Tuesday, a team of Gurugram police took Mewara back to Bhopal for further investigation. 
 
 “He had raised around Rs 283 crore through 167 branches set up across the cities. He had been living secretly in Bhopal with his family for the last one-and-a-half years when Gurugram police arrested him. In fact, he was living in rented houses, changing his address every one or two months to escape arrest,” said ASI Rajvir, the investigation officer. 
 
 Mewara was also wanted in more than eight cases filed in Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh, ASI Rajvir, added. “He is now in police remand and we are trying to find out about the whereabouts of some of his associates. They too will be arrested soon,” said Sumit Kuhar, DCP (crime).
 
 
 
