BHOPAL: After the rosogolla war between   and Odisha, a tussle between Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh over Kadaknath — the all-black fowl reared by tribal communities. MP officials say they are close to getting the Geographical Indication (GI) tag for the bird, beating the neighbour’s claim.

 Kadaknath is famous for its delicious black meat (hence ‘kali-masi’), which is supposed to be invigorating and full of medicinal properties. The black-winged fowl is a bone of contention between MP and Chhattisgarh, both of which claimed its GI registry. While MP staked its claim in 2012, Chhattisgarh did so three months ago.
 
 
  
  
 
 Animal husbandry officials in MP told TOI that it took them five years to prove the bird originated in MP — Alirajpur to be specific.
 
 
 
 
 Gramin Vikas Trust of Alirajpur district filed for GI patent and the animal husbandry department supported it. “The time for registering objections before the GI registry office in Chennai is over, so there is no point in Chhattisgarh making a claim now,” an official said.
 
 “We have been informed verbally by the GI registry, Chennai, that they are accepting MP’s claim. The notification is believed to be issued soon. We are eagerly waiting for it,” said the department’s principal secretary, AjitKesari. Chhattisgarh isn’t one to give up, though.   districtcollector SaurabhKumar said the state applied for GI registry through FICCI in November last year.
 
 “There are various parameters of GI registry, including breed, origin, purity and preservation. The bird originated in MP, but tribal women in Dantewada are maintaining breed purity so the state should get it. If it goes to MP, we have to call our bird by some other name, like Dantewada Kadaknath, which will reduce its value,” he said. Once rare to find, Kadaknath is now grown in poultries and much sought after as a healthy meat though it’s about four times as expensive as normal poultry. The black meat is said to have much lower cholesterol than regular chicken and high iron content (which makes it blood black, too). Kadaknath meat is rich in protein but has only about1% fat against13 to 25% in other breeds. It’s also calledBlackGold and Prideof   because Alirajpur was part of Jhabua before being carved out as a new district.
 
 Eating Kadaknath meat helps increase haemoglobin. In 2016, Jhabua authorities had written to Indian Olympic Association (IOA) to include Kadaknath chicken in the athletes’ diet chart to improve their performance.
 
