KOLKATA/BURDWAN: An 18-year-old Class-XII boy at a CBSE school, who went missing from his   home on February 13, was found dead on the tracks at   in Burdwan, nearly 120 km away. But   Halder’s parents learnt about his death only on Thursday, nearly a month later, after they received a call from the Lalbazar that the body of a youngster resembling the boy was at the   morgue.

 The parents have not yet lodged a complaint of foul play but his family wondered how he landed away at Shaktigarh.
 
 Authorities said Anirban left home after being scolded by his parents for not concentrating on his studies and spending too much time on his mobile. According to an officer, his mother   scolded him on February. On February 12, his father Pijush, a marketing executive, again berated him for not studying, the police said, adding the boy borrowed Rs 1,500 from a friend and left home the very next day.
 
 “Anirban left home around 10.30am on February 13, claiming he was leaving for his English tuition. When he didn’t return till evening, Pijush checked with the tutor and fellow students. All of them said Anirban hadn’t attended the class that day. Later in the evening, he lodged a missing person complaint at the Barasat police station,” an officer said.
 
 The boy’s father also contacted Lalbazar and handed out Anirban’s photos and details. On Thursday, Pijush received a call from Lalbazar, saying the body of a boy resembling Anirban was lying at the morgue of Burdwan Medical College Hospital. Pijush rushed there and identified his son’s body that had been retrieved by the GRP from the tracks at Shaktigarh on the evening of February 13. The body was mutilated, indicating a train—probably a Howrah-Burdwan local—had run him over, the police said.
 
 “We can’t say whether it was an accident or a suicide until the post-mortem report arrives. But we don’t think there was foul play as a lot of people were present at Shaktigarh station around 6.30pm that day, when the body was spotted. He was found on the tracks of platform 4,” an officer added.
 
 Relatives and neighbours, however, discounted the suicide theory. According to Anirban’s aunt Kajal, even if the boy had contemplated suicide, he didn’t have to travel all the way to Shaktigarh.
 
