Nagpur: The Budget move to increase minimum support price (MSP) for farm produce at 50% of the cost of production has been met with a grain of doubt by farm activists. The cost of production pegged by the state government itself is higher than the MSP fixed by the Centre. So, the new MSP fixed under current standards too may not leave a 50% profit in actual terms, say activists. The MSP, which is the minimum assured rate which a farmer is supposed to get, is worked out by the Commission on Agriculture Cost and Prices (CACP), which is a central government organization. Activists here said for the state’s farmer to get enough price, the MSP will have to be more than double from the current level for a number of crops. Citing an example of cotton, the mainstay crop of the region, former MLA Wamanrao Chatap said calculations put up by the state’s four agriculture universities show the cost of production of cotton at over Rs7,240 a quintal. As against this ,the MSP stands at Rs4,320 for a quintal for the crop. Similarly, the MSP for a number of crops grown in the region like soybean, paddy and tur is less than the cost of production pegged by the state’s universities, said Chatap. “Giving a higher MSP is a mere eyewash. There is no mechanism to ensure that procurement takes place at MSP. There is no sign of any tangible allocation of funds for the MSP purchases too,” Chatap said. Farm activist Amitabh Pawde said the cost is pegged by state government as well as universities. However, the MSP is fixed by the Centre, which takes into account a much lesser figure. For cotton, if the cost of production according to the state government comes to nearly Rs7,000, by the Centre’s standards it comes to around Rs4,000. “There is no scope for any major difference even if a national average is taken. The cost of majority of inputs is same in all the states. Wages can be higher in advanced states, but that comes to only 25% of the total cost,” said Pawde. Chatap added that the CACP’s costing is nowhere close to even the national average. The cost may be slightly less in Punjab, but in majority of states it is at par with Maharashtra, he added. Vijay Ingle, a farmer from Achalpur in Amravati district who has received state government award for productivity, says actually the per quintal cost comes to be much less. Still, the current MSP is not enough for a farmer to earn a decent living. Ingle said, “The right way to calculate the cost is on per acre basis. For cotton, it comes to Rs8,000 in an acre. A farmer with irrigation facilities yields around 5 quintals in an acre. If sold at MSP, he would net in a per acre profit of Rs13,600.” “On per quintal basis, the cost comes to Rs1,600 a quintal. In percentage terms, if compared to the MSP, a farmer earns a profit of over 260% of the per quintal cost. This sounds huge but in absolute terms the money is too less. The cost of living is increasing and even a farmer has to match with the lifestyle standards,” he said. Kavita Kurunghanthi of Alliance for Sustainable and Holistic Agriculture (ASHA), said the demand is that cost of production has to be calculated under the C2 formula. This takes into account even the unpaid expenses like the imputed rental value of owned land and other capital assets. At present, it is the A2+FL formula which covers paid expenses along with family labour value. By this count, the earlier government (UPA) has already fixed MSP at a 50% margin of profit, she said.