NEW DELHI: As   faces criticism for missing Afghanistan’s landmark debut Test next month,   great   has said that his decision to play for Surrey will raise the profile of this summer’s marquee England versus India Test series and that both the Indian captain and the London-based club stand to benefit. 

 
 
 In an interview with Mumbai Mirror, the former England captain said that Kohli’s eagerness to play for Surrey for the month of June also underlined his prioritising of Test cricket in these times of T20 franchises. 
 
 
 
 
 “It is a very good thing for him. It’s a very good thing for Surrey too. It is a coup by them. They will be delighted to have him – both as a player and someone they can learn from,” said Gower, who played 117 Tests and 114 ODIs in an international career that spanned from 1978 to 1992. “Virat is one of the great players in the world at this moment. We know that his last tour here (in 2014) was disappointing. So, I know he has a list of things on his agenda. He wants to prove that he can make as many runs in England as he does elsewhere.
 
 “Playing in England in August, the conditions will be more favourable (to Kohli). Being the captain, he wants to get a good result too. Personally, for people like me, it is good to see him approach this whole tour from the point of view of giving himself and his team the best chance of success in all formats. By coming here, he is making the world aware how much he respects Test cricket.”
 
 
 
 During India’s last four tour of England in 2014, which they lost 1-3 after being 1-0 up after two Tests, Kohli managed 134 runs at 13.40 in five Tests, with a highest score of 39 and six single-digit scores. That series remains a blot on Kohli’s batting record, and by his own admission those failures drove him to pursue a brief county stint to hone his skills in testing conditions. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Terming Kohli, 29, as an “extraordinary talent”, Gower endorsed the batsman’s decision. 
 
 “Anyone who has watched cricket in the last five years knows how good he is. He has got extraordinary talent in all forms of the game. We’ve our special moments and our weaknesses. This is his big chance to make amends for the disappointment of last time,” said the retired cricketer turned television pundit. 
 
 Gower’s former England team-mate Bob Willis has opposed the move to allow Kohli to prepare for the Test series with a Surrey stint, terming the decision as “nonsense”. Responding to a question on Willis’ statement, Gower admitted that the Indian captain would have an advantage after a month of county cricket. 
 
 “That’s from a staunchly patriotic view point which is: don’t give the opposition any chance and make things difficult for them. In other words, Virat playing a couple of months before the Test series starts to get in to shape which he would not have otherwise, is not appropriate,” said the 61-year-old. “In practical and real terms, with his talent, even if he did not play Surrey, and if he had arrived normally, he would still have a great chance to make a lot of runs and leave a serious impact in the series. But it does give him a slight advantage.”
 
 As for the five-Test series which starts August 1 in Birmingham following three ODIs and three T20Is, Gower felt it was evenly matched at this stage. 
 
 “I know England tend to be better at home which is an allegation thrust against India as well. It is perfectly natural for the home team to enjoy their home conditions. Come August and the English summer is not like the predictable Indian summer. The England summer can cause all sorts of things. Come August, we should have decent weather and good pitches,” he said. 
 
 “When the sides met a couple of years ago in India, there was a mixture of great players and good players and fringe players. The balance of the Indian team is pretty good now. But they had a habit of winning only at home. It is not as simple now. They have started performing well overseas too. So, it will be a fascinating series for the supporters of both teams.”
 
 
