NAGPUR: The aim of inventing a technology should be to provide an equal opportunity to individuals and ensure that every section of the society, including physically challenged, is benefited, said Anand  , director of  , on Wednesday.
 
 Priority should be given to conserving depleting resources and animal species as even a single missing component in the food web equation will cause imbalance and lead to chaotic conditions in ecosystem, Manjarkhede said while delivering a lecture on ‘Science and technology for sustainable development’ at   Centre, Gandhisagar. The programme was organized to mark National Science Day.
 
 Manjarkhede referred to the drought faced by China in 1960 and cited reasons that led to the catastrophe. There was a mass killing of birds in China to keep them away from standing crops which resulted into the famine. Every organism in biological cycle has its own significance which should never be compromised, he remarked.
 
 He advised students to conduct a sustained research on scope for sustainable development of science and technology. He said that this is one field that can generate employment for which research holds the key. At the same time, political support and right education are the other factors for job creation, he added.
 
 Qualitative development of resources and their conservation is of utmost important. Unlike other countries holding nuclear arms and weapons, India uses them for peaceful purposes like generating power. It is also used in engineering, metallurgy and medical fields in the best interest of the people, Manjarkhede added. 
 
 There are suburbs and highly developed cities in India alike the USA and European countries, but one must not forget that there are regions which are still underdeveloped and not privileged to have even basic medical facilities. Science and technology therefore should expand the base to bring such neglected regions on the path of development, he said.
 
 After the lecture, ‘A young explorer’s journey of science’, a compilation of published articles written by  , a student of Std IX of CDS School, was released.
 
 ends
 
 
