NEW DELHI: Following the terrorist attack on an Army camp in Jammu's Sunjuwan, former J&K chief minister   today warned that India would be left with no option but to wage war against Pakistan if Islamabad failed to stop exporting terror from across the border.

 
  "There is not a single day when terrorists don't attack India. All the terrorists are from Pakistan. If Pakistan wants peace with India, then it will have to leave the path of militancy, otherwise India will have no choice but to wage war against it. Although, both countries will face destruction because of war, I have to say that Pakistan will have to leave the path of terrorism and initiate dialogue," he was quoted saying by ANI.
 
  PDP countered Abdullah's argument and suggested that the NC leader's warmongering may have been motivated by his party MLA raising pro-Pakistan slogans in the state assembly, earlier today.
 
  "Hours after NC MLA says "Pakistan Zindabad", Farooq Sahab says war with Pakistan is the way. Let me remind them that India-Pakistan have fought wars in past- and even an inch hasn't changed," said PDP spokesperson Waheed Ur Rehman‏in.
 
  
  
  Earlier, National Conference MLA from Sonawari,  , had courted controversy after he raised pro-Pakistan slogans in the state assembly.
 
  Lone defended his actions and said that he was "provoked" to raise the slogans after BJP MLAs started raising anti-Pakistan slogans in the assembly.
 
  Following the terror strike on the Army camp, CM   had expressed her condolences to the victims of the attack.
 
  
  
  BJP, on the other hand, hinted that the migrant population of Rohingyas and Bangladeshis in the region may have been responsible for today's attack.
 
  "Have been raising issue of Bangladeshis and Rohingyas living in surrounding areas of Jammu, illegally. They are increasing,if not stopped they'll act as militant organisations' shelter and this may also be connected to them, investigation must be done," BJP MLC Vikram Randhawa demanded, according to ANI.
 
  Randhawa's concerns were echoed by BJP leader and state assembly speaker, Kavinder Gupta, as well.
 
  "I live in that constituency, complaints have come from there and in a way government also accepts that number of Rohingyas and Bangladeshis is increasing and that they are a security threat," he said.
 
  
  
 
