MUMBAI: Posting messages against the transfer policy of the government and instigating their colleagues to join the state-wide stir has proved costly for teachers of the  . 

 Sangli Zilla Parishad chief executive officer Abhijit   has served show-cause notices to errant teachers, asking them why they should not be suspended for their anti-government posts on the WhatsApp group of teachers. "Explain within five days as to why you should not be suspended and a departmental probe should not be initiated against you," Raut said in notice to 36 teachers of the Sangli Zilla Parishad.
 
 It was found that a section of teachers had posted a series of messages in the last week of March and first week of April against the proposed transfer policy drafted by the rural development department for zilla parishad teachers in the state.
 
 A message posted by a teacher suggested to 4,600 teachers of the Sangli Zilla Parishad as well as teachers across the state that they should join the state-wide chain hunger strike against the online transfer policy. "The intention was to instigate all the teachers across the state against the new transfer policy of zilla parishad teachers as well as orders passed by the courts," Raut said.
 
 Raut found that the errant teachers had wrongly interpreted the online transfer policy as well as the order passed by the courts and the messages had a threatening tone. "Electronic media was used to misguide the teachers, it's a serious matter. Therefore, the zilla parishad administration took a serious note of the messages posted by the teachers," Raut said.
 
 Raut said the act of the teachers was in blatant violation of the   (appeal and discipline) Rules, 1964. "We invoked the provisions of the rules; we have served show-cause notices to 36 teachers. If the reply is not satisfactory, we will not hesitate to suspend them and also initiate departmental probe against them," Raut said.
 
 A bureaucrat said that alarmed by large-scale irregularities in postings and transfers of ZP teachers, the rural development department had drafted a completely transparent online transfer policy. "There is no scope for political interference. Teachers who have served in remote areas will be shifted near the headquarters, while teachers in headquarters will be shifted to hilly areas. The entire process is computerised. Apparently, a section of teachers who were camping in the headquarters were unhappy with it," he said.
 
 
