When the   team trumped West Bengal in a penalty shootout in the Santosh Trophy final on Sunday at the Mecca of Indian Football, the Salt Lake Stadium in Kolkata, it was an iconic moment. It was Kerala’s sixth Santosh Trophy title and its first in the last 14 years.

 We caught up with Thrissur native and 25-year-old  , who led the youngest ever Kerala team in the prestigious tournament, to know about the victory, how it will boost the game in Kerala and his aspirations:
 
 
 
 
 
 It’s like my life has found a new meaning after winning the title. For us Malayalis, the Santosh Trophy is a prestigious and iconic tournament. So, leading the team to the title is one of my happiest moments. In Kerala, a player receives more recognition and love from sports enthusiasts if he plays for Santosh Trophy than the national team. I don’t think even winning a match for the Indian team would give me this much satisfaction. I am currently just savouring the championship win and support of my team.
 
 The victory is an outcome of team work and the guidance of our coach  . Even if someone else was captain, I think we would have won the cup. I have played Santosh Trophy four times before but feel fortunate that I was the captain when we emerged victorious. Till I die, I guess I will be known by that and that’s a great honour.
 
 
 
 
 
 From the time the game went into extra time, we understood that the Bengal team was pushing for a penalty shootout. But during and after the semi-finals with Mizoram, our goalkeeper V Midhun was in peak form. So, we believed in him and were sure that if the game went into a penalty shootout, we would win.
 
 
 
 
 
 Though it occupies a prominent space in the hearts of football lovers, it is not getting enough exposure these days. The advent of ISL and league matches has made the tournament a low-key affair. If you look at Indian football history, some of its prolific players such as IM Vijayan and VP Sathyan burst into the scene through the Santosh Trophy tournament. They are inspiring personalities. If Sachin is the god of cricket in India, then according to me IM Vijayan is the god of football. 
 
 
 
 
 
 I watched the film, first day, first show itself. The movie was touching and VP Sathyan has inspired many footballers including me. Coincidentally, I am also a defender just like he was. The time I started playing the game, my coaches asked me to learn from his defence tactics. During the initial rounds of the Santosh Trophy, Sathyettan’s wife Anitha chechi called us to convey her wishes. She said, “Enthayalum tirichu aa cup Keralathil kondu varanam”. And we did exactly that.
 
 
 
 
 
 I feel that our win will help more youngsters take up the game. Nowadays our juniors are exposed to lot of football including ISL and I-League matches. Earlier after the Santosh Trophy tournament, the next step was the national team. But now, the ISL and I-League matches give youngsters more opportunities to prosper in the sport with teams like   and Gokulam FC including them as members. These steps will help the growth of football in our state. That said it was great that  , a fellow Thrissur lad, got the opportunity to represent India at the FIFA U-17 World Cup.
 
 That said, it was sad that Santosh Trophy was no live telecast. For our friends, family and football lovers, it would have been a great experience to watch the game live. We hope the authorities also support the growth of the game, and not just celebrate this success.
 
 
 
 
 My parents were settled in Oman and I did my schooling there till Class 4. I was into the game since my childhood. When my parents shifted to Thrissur, I continued to play in my school team and then in the university squad. The sport earned me my job in a national bank in Thiruvananthapuram, and at present, I also play for them.
 
 
 
 
 
 Being department players, we can only take part in department matches. Santosh Trophy tourney is the World Cup for us. There are many in Kerala team including me who want to play professional matches to hone our football skills. Players like IM Vijayan were shelved because of the lack of exposure and proper provisions. I hope the present and upcoming generation of footballers get the importance as cricketers in our country
 
 
