NAGPUR:  , fondly known as 'uncle Luley' within the city sport fraternity, passed away at 12.30am on Monday after a brief illness. The 83-year-old spent a major part of his life in promotion of sport.

 A former employee of RBI, Luley played a key role in formation of   (BCS). He was the founder secretary of the BCS. Apart from organizing sport competition for bank employees, BCS, under Luley's leadership, has been recognizing sports personalities from various fields since last many decades. 
 
 Luley was also associated with the   (VCA). Over the years he worked as vice president, Joint Secretary, and Executive committee member of the  . During the 1980s, Luley served as the local manager of the visiting teams whenever international cricket matches were held in the city.
 
 "Uncle, as he was affectionately known, was one of the old timers of VCA and had served the association for many years. I had the good fortune of working with him in VCA. He was also active in the Bankers Sports Council and served as the president for a good number of years. 
 
 He was a good cricketer in his younger days and would regale us with his on field exploits of Inter-College matches. He will be missed by all who knew him,"  , former VCA official, said. During his playing days, Luley had represented Nagpur University. 
 
 A multi-dimensional personality, Luley, apart from sport, was also active in cultural and educational sphere. He worked as the president of Bhide Kanya High School, Sitabuldi, for many years. "Uncle was a good sports organizer and he was also active in cultural and social scene. 
 
 "He was a big music lover. He started a music competition in memory of renowned music composer C Ramchandra. Today, the city has lost not just a sport organizer but a cultural and social activist too," said  , the current president of BCS.
 
 Prafulla Nandedkar said, "He was one of the best organizers I have ever met. I came in contact with him in 1983 when I joined RBI, where he was officer that time. He retired in 1994. He was general secretary of RBI Staff Recreation Club for 7 years and was felicitated by Dr IG Patel, then RBI Governor in 1981, during the silver jubilee celebration of RBISRC."
 
 His last rites were performed at Sahakar Nagar Ghat on Monday morning. He left behind wife Pratibha, sons Pramod and Ambar, daughter Rajeshri Tamhankar.
 
