NEW DELHI: The   took the unprecedented action of sending more than three dozen cops to the residence of chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Friday morning to investigate and seize evidence related to the alleged assault on the chief secretary,  . The move, likely to become a flashpoint between police chief Amulya Patnaik and the city government, sparked a row with AAP leaders calling it politically motivated.

 
 The residence, termed “scene of the crime” by the cops, was inspected by forensic officials. The CM’s staff were questioned for two hours. Police seized the hard disk of CCTV cameras installed at the house and sought to explain the time difference between events happening as de scribed by Prakash and as recorded and seen on CCTV footage earlier released by AAP.
 
 
 Police said they had found a time lag of 40 minutes, 42 seconds from IST in the CCTV cameras.
 
 There were 21 cameras. Seven of them, including the moving camera at the gate, were found “out of order”. The police then questioned the staff tasked with maintaining the electronic surveillance system and the caretaker of the residence.
 
 
 The police are trying to find out whether any recalibration of the CCTVs was carried out on the day the CS was assaulted. This would establish a charge of criminal conspiracy. If tampering is established, police will add IPC Section 201 (destruction of evidence) to the FIR.
 
 According to the police, the CS was assaulted between midnight of February 19 and 00.15 AM of February 20. The room where the assault took place has an electronic door but no CCTVs, police said.
 
 Senior officers said they had asked the Chief Minister’s Office for CCTV footage on February 20 but did not get any reply. To conduct a fair probe, they had to visit the scene of crime, they said.
 
 At around 10 am on Friday, the Civil Lines SHO informed the person in charge of maintenance at the CM’s residence in writing about the police team’s visit. The police delayed action by an hour or so given the presence of the public at the residence.
 
 Around 11.15am, senior police officers arrived at the Civil Lines police station and asked around 50 personnel to accompany them. At 11.35pm, a team led by additional DCP   entered the house and asked the CM’s security detail to step aside. The staff was asked to cooperate and leave the room in question.
 
 Kejriwal, who was in the house when the search began, left after around 45 minutes to attend a public function. The police, however, remained for the next hour. The entire operation was videographed by the police and forensic teams who were carrying three video cameras each.
 
 Regarding the controversy about police asking questions about the painting of the house, police clarified that they needed to ascertain if a CCTV camera in the room had been removed and the wall re-painted. Kejriwal’s staff told them the PWD would be able to provide information in that regard.
 
 Soon after the completing the search, additional DCP Singh went to the office of lieutenant governor   to brief him. “The hard disk has been seized… Any possibility of tampering with the system can be ascertained only through forensic examination,” Harendra Singh said.
 
 The police remained evasive about reports of police preparing to question Kejriwal and other MLAs who were allegedly present during the claimed assault. “It is difficult to comment on this as of now,” Singh said. Sources, however, said this could happen by next week.
 
