Here’s something that will ensure that you have no more Monday morning blues, if you take a cue from a new trend. A group of   enthusiasts took their fun from the garden where they meet, onto a   for the first time last Sunday. In what seems to be a 2.0 version of laughter club, a city-based group embarked on a 33-km journey from Churchgate to Borivali on Sunday morning and had one fun ride with yoga, games, a few high-fives and laughter. It’s just the start with many more to come as they hope to inspire others to try it, too. BT got on board to join in the mirth…

 
 
  
  
 
 There was no second guessing your way to the right spot at the venue for your ears led you there. There are a million sounds that might emanate from the 148-year-old Churchgate station to date — yet none like what was heard that morning. By 7.15 am, Platform No. 1 reverberated with loud laughter, cheeky guffaws and glee as the enthusiasts came together. They chose an early hour on a Sunday as the rush would be much less than on a weekday. Organiser   admitted, “It’s the first time that such a laughter club is happening aboard a train, it may also be a first of its kind in the history of the Indian Railways!” Why a train, you ask? Quite a few reasons. He explains, “Today, when you go out to enjoy, you end up paying so much, but this amusement is free (except for the ticket cost). Also, we have never looked at train for leisure. It is always associated with stress, especially for office-goers.” 
 He couldn’t be far from the truth. As Snehal Sawant, a housewife from Grant Road and ex-navy servicewoman, said, “I’ve taken the train on this route for the last 40 years, but this is the first time I’ll be laughing so much and for so long on it.” Added bank manager Anjali Wadekar, who retired after a 45-year-service period, “I wish we had something like this earlier, it would have made the commute so much fun.” 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 As the train rolled on, the fun unfurled. The group waved out to others at passing stations, sang songs, had a few rounds of games such as an improvised ‘train housie’ with a mic and some yoga, too. To add to the mirth, a series of simulated laughter did the rounds. You had the usual ‘one-metre laughter’ (where you imagine yourself measuring out a metre with both hands. “It’s as though you’re about to cut cloth,” explained a participant. This was followed by a few innovative ones — ‘Patiala laughter’, where you laugh with the mouth wide open, a ‘lassi’ laughter where use both hands as if you are churning the drink in a jar with rope, a ‘Tu Tu Main Main laughter’ that had one person pointing to his neighbour and breaking into mirth and even a ‘Nariyal pani’ one where you imagine a 
  in your hands — you have to 
 try and cut it and sip on it. You pretend to finish it and finally have a long laugh. 
 “It’s not just about sounding loud, it’s an emotion from within. When you laugh, it is a mindless action and you automatically lose the worries and stress. Did you know, when you laugh for even 10 seconds it is equivalent to three seconds of rowing. And the 100-belly laughter is equal to 10 minutes of rowing, so it’s a great workout,” explains Kishore. 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 For many, the whole experience of a laughter club on a train may mean more than just a trip or therapy found in books, as it has also translated into a friendship. Rajan Purohit, who hurt his leg after a bike accident, says laughter was his recovery mantra. “It helped me forget my pain by staying positive. 
 . We really need to celebrate life more with moments like this,” he says. For Yashwant Waghela a resident of Gol Deval, this laughter train means another way to socialise and bond. “Laughing out things together as we move from one station to another makes us feel like we are leaving our problems behind,” he says.
 Kishore sums up, “How many of us even smile at our liftman, driver or even colleagues? As Mumbaikars, we seem to have forgotten to share happiness. We know how to complain and share worries, but find it hard to go out of the way to make someone laugh. This way, sitting next to a fellow commuter, you are forced to do that. Ek apnapan banney lagta hai. It’s a start, but we hope to inspire other smaller groups of office-goers and other train travellers, to do this together, every single day throughout the week.” 
 
  
 
 In 1995,   created the concept of Laughter Yoga in Mumbai that involves breathing and laughing exercises. That movement has now spread to laughter clubs all across the globe. 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 Studies indicate that any kind of laughter is good for the body. In fact, simulated laughter is known to induce real laughter so try it today. And while it’s okay to laugh alone, doing so in a group is even better. It helps people to loosen up, put away their inhibitions and communicate better. As a result, they de-stress.
 
 
 
 
