In this season of mushy sweet nothings, how about indulging in some  ?

 There’s plenty on offer to pamper your furry love this Valentine’s Day. From tantalising toys, latest doggy haute-couture, irresistible grooming products, comfy beddings, drool-worthy pet accessories, surprise gifts,   dinner, specially-made cakes and ice creams, there’s a whole array of delights to keep the   happy and barking for more. Woof!
 
 Just imagine your pooch gorging on mouth-watering paw-shaped Valentine’s Day cakes or ravenously slurping on delicious ice creams! Before you hit the panic button, these doggy ice creams are specially made from chicken liver. Moreover, the cakes are not from confectioneries but made with doggy health-friendly dollops of chicken, carrot and cheese. Moreover, they are available in sugar-free versions.
 
 “We decided to make these delightful treats keeping Valentine’s Day in mind because we thought why should human beings have all the fun? Pets should have a great time too! ” says Niharika Virmani who runs a boarding facility for pets called Pawfect in Mumbai.
 
 Virmani learnt the art of whipping up yummy doggy delights while pursuing an animal behaviourist course from Nash Academy of Animal Arts, the US. “We prepare all the food in house with natural ingredients. Dogs just really love them,” she says. Her Valentine’s Day spread also includes sausage rolls, which is chicken wrapped with glutton-free bread. Then there are specially made chicken cookies too.
 
 
 
 
 
 For pet lovers who cannot travel afar, orders can be placed online. Heads Up For Tails (HUFT), a chain of online and offline stores for luxury pet products, has come up with the concept of V-Day 'Happiness Wag Box' which can be custom packed based on the dog's age / preferences / breed / gender etc and is delivered at the customer’s doorstep. The goodies on offer include a bottle of lavender oil that can be applied topically behind the dog’s ears and chest to set him or her into a romantic mood, doggie deo to freshen up for that special V-Day dinner, natural yak chews, tug-n-fetch rope, personalised cushion to help your pooch relax and unwind. So, who says it’s a dog’s life!
 
 “We came up with the concept of happiness box since dogs bring so much joy and happiness into our lives and what better way to celebrate than by showering our love and affection on them on the day of love,” says Rashi Sanon Narang of HUFT, which runs a shop in Kalyani Nagar in Pune.
 
 Pet owners who don’t mind some public display of affection with their pets can also look forward to winning gift hampers containing real meat treats in jars of semi-dehydrated chicken by posting adorable pictures of their dogs online. “Based on the concept of real love, we would be offering real meat treats to the winners. These treats could also be purchased online too. Besides, we are also offering Valentines’ Day T-shirts, mushy-scented shampoos, jackets, sweaters, bows, chic collars and leashes and more,” says Rana Atheya, founder and chief executive officer of DogSpot.in, another online shop for pets.
 
 To ensure that the pets look prim and proper, Dogspot.in has tied-up with PetSpot, which offers grooming and pet boarding services to pets in Gurgaon. “We will be offering discount vouchers to customers who want to take their dogs out for a Valentine’s Day makeover. The grooming facilities include pedicure, trimming, body message, body shave, medical and herbal treatments and more,” says Atheya.
 
 With so much on offer, pet owners are only too happy. “I want to make this day special for my doggy and have decided to treat him to a royal spa, with hair cutting and body messaging thrown in. Then in the evening, we will go for a Valentine’s Day dinner, where other pooches will join in along with their owners,” says Priyanka Jain, a resident of Kalyani Nagar. 
 
 Rahul Agarwal, too, feels there’s no better way to celebrate the day by showering affection on your dog who will love you unconditionally. “I have already ordered for a wag box that she will love to receive. Moreover, there’s a clip and cool T-shirt awaiting her,” he says.
 
 For the pet stores, the run up to Valentine’s Day is always good business. “Our sales generally go up by two and a half times during this period,” says Atheya. The facilities on offer come at the cost of a few thousands, if not more, but for pet owners that is a small price to pay when it comes to the true love of their life.
 
