MUMBAI: After reviving their alliance for the upcoming  , the   and   have joined hands again for the May 28   for Palghar and Bhandara-Gondiya Lok Sabha seats and Palus-Kadegaon assembly seat in Sangli. 

 NCP spokesperson Nawab Malik said following a meeting between NCP leader Praful Patel and Congress general secretary Ashok Gehlot, it was decided that NCP will contest the Bhandara-Gondiya bypoll, while Congress will field its candidates for Palghar and Palus-Kadegaon. The two parties had snapped their alliance after the 2014 Lok Sabha elections. 
 
 The Bhandara-Gondia seat fell vacant when   MP Nana Patole quit the party following differences with the leadership, particularly Prime Minister Modi, and joined the Congress. Palghar and Palus-Kadegaon bypolls were necessitated by the death of BJP's Chintaman Wanga and Congress leader Patangrao Kadam respectively.
 
 Both Congress and NCP had staked claim to the Bhandara seat. However, following intervention of the Congress leadership, it has been left to the NCP. Since the term of the current Lok Sabha ends next year, the contest is unlikely to generate much enthusiasm.
 
 In 2014, Patole, riding a Modi wave, had defeated NCP's Praful Patel by a huge margin in a constituency which was regarded the latter's citadel. Subsequently, Patel was elected to the Rajya Sabha. In NCP circles, it's believed that either Patel or his wife Varsha may contest the bypoll. If Patel stays away, Vijay Shivankar, a new entrant to NCP and son of veteran BJP leader Mahadev Shivankar, may be the top contender. In the BJP, MLC Parinay Fuke and former MP Khushal Bopche are the top contenders for the ticket.
 
 Meanwhile, contrary to expectations, BJP and Shiv Sena will jointly contest elections to the six seats of the legislative council from local self government constituencies - Raigad-Sindhudurg, Nashik, Osmanabad-Latur, Parbhani-Hingoli, Amravati and Chandrapur. Following intervention of chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, both reached an understanding and decided to contest the polls together. Accordingly, Shiv Sena will contest Raigad-Sindhudurg, Nashik and Parbhani-Hingoli seats, while BJP fields its nominees from Osmanabad-Latur, Amravati and Chandrapur seats.
 
 Family members for late Chintaman Wanga on Thursday called on Shiv Sena President Uddhav Thackeray to seek his blessings. Wanga, who was elected to the Lok Sabha from Palghar as a BJP nominee died in New-Delhi. Contention of he Wanga family members was that after his death, BJP completely ignored them. While Wanga build up BJP in the entire tribal belt and was elected to Lok Sabha in 1996, 1999 and 2014, after his death, no senior BJP leader visited them. We sought appointment of Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis and State BJP President Raosaheb Danve, but there was no response. Under such circumstances, we expect support from Shiv Sena, particularly Thackeray,'' they said. 
 
 Uddhav welcomed the Wanga family in the Sena fold. "We have respect for the Wanga family. Sena activists in Palghar are insisting on contesting the May 28 byelection. However, a decision on whether to contest the bypoll or not will be taken later," he said. 
 
 
