Trichy: The state government came in for stinging criticism from the general public after it rolled out one of the steepest hikes in ticket fares on Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) buses on Friday. Coming into effect after a gap of six years, the revised fare put many passengers in a spot of bother on Saturday, with many describing the announcement of the fare rise ill-timed, causing unnecessary hassle to commuters.  The government increased the charges on Friday citing a host of reasons including the spiraling fuel prices, the high operation cost of fleet, and the recent TNSTC protest seeking wage revision. A section of public accepted the fare rise, calling it was the need of the hour, but were visibly unhappy with way it was introduced especially time the government chose to implement it. Following this, the central bus stand in Trichy, which serves as transport hub for the districts, witnessed a confused bunch of passengers arguing with bus operators on fares. Angry residents in Thiruvalarsolai, near Srirangam, took to street, laying siege to three town buses in protest against the steep hike, before the police arrived and restored order. Passengers, who booked tickets week before the fare rise was declared, said they were unbfairly charged on Saturday. T Prabhu, a native of Aynavaram, who booked three SETC tickets a week ago, was told to pay more as per the revised fare as he reached the station to board the bus. “Ticket from Trichy to Chennai in Ultra Deluxe buses has soared from Rs 235 to Rs 375. If the ticket fare revision was announced well in advance, perhaps we would have booked a tatkal ticket in express trains which is cheaper and comfortable,” Prabhu added. From Trichy, which has bus connectivity to most parts of the state, the fare revision varies from 16 to 61 per cent higher than the ticket fare collected previously. The sudden implementation of fare revision did not even go well with the transport employees who claimed that the fare revision should have come at least three years ago. “Instead of nominal hike, the fare revision was too steep which will affect common people. State government should form a committee to check if any revision needed in ticket fare once in every three years,” said N Mani, district secretary of AITUC. Consumer associations pointed out that revising the wages alone would not put the TNSTC on profit making tack. “It is unwise to attempt to reduce the loss in TNSTC by hiking the ticket fare. If private sector employs five people a bus, TNSTC employs seven people per bus. Construction workers who move quite often would struggle financially,” S Pushpavanam, secretary of consumer protection council said. With government buses charging revised fare, consequently complaints were raised by locals in Pudukkottai and Thanjavur alleging that private buses have hiked their ticket fare by 20-50 per cent. Condemning the fare revision, communist party cadre have planned to stage protest across Trichy. It appears that the state government announced their move about hiking the ticket fare only on Friday night, even the transport employees seemed unsure about the revised ticket fare on Saturday morning