CHENNAI: When   (CFC) take on   in a crucial   ( ) tie at the Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium here, it will be a battle between two in-form teams with similar styles. 

 
 Defence is the strongest suit for both — Jamshedpur have been the most miserly, conceding only 12 while Chennaiyin have let in 18. Both the teams attack on the counter, relying on swift wing-play and the onus will be on the strikers to unlock the taut backlines to give their teams an edge in the race to the knockouts.
 
 Chennaiyin, who got four points on the road from their last two matches, are currently placed third with 27 points from 15 matches behind leaders Bengaluru FC (34 pts from 16) and Pune City (29 pts from 16). Jamshedpur, on the other hand, have won five of their last six matches and sit fourth with 25 points after playing an identical number of games. With only two matches remaining for both after Sunday’s encounter, the teams will leave no stone unturned in a bid to win three points and take a step towards sealing a semifinal berth.
 
 
 It won’t be an easy task for the teams though and Jamshedpur coach  , whose side lost the first leg at home, is aware of the challenge. The Briton said his side will look to play an open game on Sunday. “I hope it won’t be a chess game where you wait patiently for the other team to make a mistake. I would like to see a carefree match in which both go for goals. I know it’s difficult to change a team’s playing style when you are following a strategy for the last 15 matches. But the result will be significant for either side. Revenge is definitely not a factor at this stage. Whatever happens tomorrow, our season doesn’t end. So our focus is to win the remaining games,” Coppell said on the eve of the match.
 
 While Coppell sounded confident, his counterpart John Gregory might be a bit worried. Chennaiyin will miss midfielder Dhanpal Ganesh and winger Gregory Nelson due to suspensions. To add to their woes,  , who has been playing as a sole striker, has been patchy.
 
 But Gregory insisted that the hosts have a ‘happy’ dressing room. “We will certainly miss Ganesh and Nelson. Ganesh’s yellow card was needless. He needs to show more maturity. But we have a strong bench and should be good. We still can decide our own fate and not rely on other matches. So we have to seize the opportunity,” Gregory said.
 
 Jeje’s form, too, is not a concern for the coach. “Jamshedpur never let their opposition rest and come hard. We have to be at our best and our style won’t change. We will protect our goal and then go for the points. Jeje is due to score. His effort and commitment have been genuine. So I don’t worry about Jeje’s form,” Gregory said.
 
 
