NAGPUR: Educationist Brijesh Dixit managed to keep the enthusiasm of students of 11   (KV) in Vidarbha going as he demonstrated physics experiments with an aim to explain the basics of   at the three-day ‘Jigyasa’ meet.

 The programme, inaugurated on Wednesday, has been jointly organized by National Environmental Engineering Research Institute ( ) and Kendriya Vidyalaya Sanghatan, especially for KV students.
 
 On day one, students from Standard VIII to XII were taught some of the basic science experiments from their syllabus. Experiments like center of mass, Isaac Newton’s law of inertia, optical illusion etc kept the students glued throughout the session. He also encouraged the students to ask questions related to the experiments and invited them on stage to share their experiences. Explaining physics   in simple but innovative way arouses the students’ interest and it helps them understand the science better, Dixit said.
 
 Dixit even asked the students to look for examples of use of science in day-to-day life as this will help them understand the principles better. “You must always be curious about your surroundings to understand how things work,” he told the students.
 
 The educationist also showed the students how to make an apparatus to measure density of various liquids with a pen and an eraser. He fixed a small piece of rubber eraser at one end of the pen which made it to float on liquid. “This simple homemade device can be used to check whether liquids like milk, water and diesel are pure or adulterated,” Dixit said. “Very often we find that edible oil and milk is mixed with other oils and water, respectively, to increase the quantity to earn more profits,” said Dixit. 
 
 NEERI’s director Rakesh Kumar urged the students to keep their enthusiasm for science elevated throughout the programme which will enable them to learn new facets of science which may not be taught in their schools. Science secretary of NEERI JP Pandey said, “We are trying to educate more people so as to increase the literacy levels. “A nation shouldn’t be proud only on the collection of missiles and weaponry it has, but should be proud on higher literacy levels and healthy environment,” Kumar said.
 
 As a part of ‘Jigyasa’, a visit to the Raman Science Center has been planned on Friday. The students will also visit labs in NEERI where they will be given an opportunity to connect with the scientists and try their hands on some experiments.
 
 
