Kolkata: Forensic experts on Wednesday said the ambulance in which Madhyamik examinee Arijit Das was transported from Annapurna Nursing home in Burdwan to Kolkata was “not life supporting”. Further, the interrogation of the four accused in the case has revealed that each trip made by the vehicle would fill the pockets of a number of middlemen. These middlemen would control everything from booking the ambulance, arranging the doctor to even deciding the number of people who could accompany the patient.

 Police sources said a share of the profit would reach each “stakeholder” that included the ambulance owner Vijay Ram alias Vicky, the owners of Annapurna Nursing home and even the RMOs of the hospital. 
 
 “A trip to Kolkata would be charged Rs 18,000. But the fake doctor, Sk Sarafajuddin, would make merely Rs 1,000-Rs 1,500. Unlike what was thought earlier, Vicky had to share his profits,” claimed a police source.
 
 Police said almost all ambulance movements from Burdwan and a large part of Birbhum to Kolkata would work on the same principle – each ambulance would be arranged through touts like Vicky, who would charge between Rs 5,000-10,000 for arranging doctors besides a separate fare for the hired ambulance.
 
 “A preliminary probe shows that the accused would claim that the ambulance was fitted with latest equipment. But when the patient party demanded that they be used, the ‘doctor’ present inside the ambulance would assure them that there was no need for the same,” a police source said. For vehicles arranged from other owners, Vicky – who owns at least four ambulances – would charge a hefty commission. 
 
 The police hinted that it is raiding several places in at least three districts of south Bengal in search of Vicky and the four owners of Annapurna Nursing Home. “We are expecting a few more arrests soon. The CCTV footages from the nursing home have helped in fixing the culpability of the accused,” an officer said.
 
 The cops said they have found that the nursing home was heavily funded by some ambulance owners. “There are a total of 294 nursing homes in Burdwan. Around 100 of these have ambulance owners as their financial patrons. Patients from as far as Dumka and Rampurhat were brought here only to be referred to Kolkata within hours of being admitted. The modus operandi was such that the ambulance owner ended up with the highest profit,” the officer added. 
 
 
