MUMBAI: With technology blurring the boundaries between work and life, the concept of work hours is passé. This has helped organizations accelerate business growth while extending empathy towards employees with flexi-work options.

  One of the major challenges of working in Mumbai is commuting during peak hours. Putting their lives at risk, a large majority of Mumbaikars travel in overcrowded suburban trains to reach their place of work. Flexi-work hours adopted by some progressive organizations have helped them manage their office schedules with ease.
 
 At   and Mahindra (M&M), employees have the flexibility to come early and leave early or vice versa while maintaining the core working hours (11am to 4pm).   too offers employees the flexibility and has defined core hours (10am to 4pm), but it does not strictly adhere to the concept of fixed hours at work. Work hours at Mondelez are location agnostic, which means one is not required to be in office premises merely to mark their presence. It believes work can be done from any place.
 
  
  
 At   India, flexi-timings were introduced three years ago, giving employees the option to choose work shifts. So the frontend staff with customer interface work on two-shift options as they need to sync with Amway direct sellers and customers servicing hours. Those based at regional and corporate office with less interface with Amway direct sellers and customers can choose from two- or four-shift options. However, while the shifts are spread out (8:30am to 5pm; 9am to 5:30pm; 9:30am to 6pm; 10am to 6:30pm), almost 60% of employees opt for the 9:30am to 6:30pm shift.
 
 Amway India has done away with staff attendance tracking time. Currently, 12-15% of employees work from home regularly, depending on the nature of work and domestic needs.
 
 At M&M, around 2,000 employees (yearly average) avail of work from home options. Rajeev Dubey, group president (HR & Corporate Services), CEO (After-Market Sector), M&M, said, “The employee needs to be present during core working hours defined and has to clock in a minimum number of total working hours.”
 
 Besides, M&M has jobsharing facility, which enables any two individuals to share the same job using the pattern of either half days or split days in a week, as also part-time employment, which provides flexibility to employees to work a minimum of 12 days a month and/ or a minimum of 27 hours in a week.
 
 
 
 
 Technology is playing a huge role in enabling flexi-working. M&M relies on video conferencing as a global presentation tool. It uses telepresence for participation in distant events. It has employee portals for remote access to all policies and updates, and to help manage travel, performance, leave, reimbursements and benefits through a mobile app or desktops.
 
 Amway, too, extensively uses technology in the form of digital tool boxes to facilitate direct sellers. The company has provided laptops with dongle to all its employees and email access on mobiles.
 
 R. Mahalakshmi, HR director, Mondelez India, said: "For many years now at Mondelez India, we provide facilities which involve working from remote locations as per one’s convenience. In most cases, we’ve found this to be a key enabler to the effectiveness of our colleagues—many of whom are in roles that involve connects and calls with colleagues across time zones and geographies. Flexi working is a way of work—it is a discretion we allow our colleagues to use in discussion with their managers-—the basis of what needs to get done and where is it best done out of.”
 
