Former Sri Lanka international Mahela Jayawardene feels that Indian opener Shikhar Dhawan stepped up to the plate in the absence of the seniors teammates in the  . 

 
 
 Dhawan with scores of 90 and 55 in the first two T20Is vs Sri Lanka and Bangladesh, respectively, has lead from the front with the bat. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Writing in his column for TOI, Jayawardene noted, “Missing several senior players, Shikhar Dhawan has thus far taken on the additional responsibilities with confidence scoring 90 and 55. In T20 cricket, it’s always helpful when your openers are scoring runs and Dhawan has been pivotal.”
 
 
 
 India lost their first match to the hosts despite posting a good total but came back well against Bangladesh and Jayawardene believes that India would not be pondering much over the loss as they prepare to take on the hosts for the second time in the series on Monday. 
 
 “India will go into their third game, against Sri Lanka on Monday, with all to play for in this Nidahas Trophy. Of course, they will be disappointed to have lost to the hosts in their first game, but they recovered well against Bangladesh with a very efficient performance.
 
 I don’t think India will read too much into their opening defeat to Sri Lanka. They scored a respectable 175 for five, which is an excellent score at the Premadasa Stadium, and failed to perhaps bowl as well as they would have liked, but this is a new team with lots of inexperience. Even then, though they may have rested some senior players, sensibly so in my opinion, India have some very talented young players eager to make their mark and it will fascinate me to see who puts their hand up,”he added. 
 
 The former Sri Lankan captain was all praise for middle-order batsman Kausal Perera, who was instrumental in Sri Lanka’s win in the series opener. 
 
 “To Sri Lanka’s credit, Kusal Perera, who has been battling injury and confidence during the past year or so, produced the kind of firecracker innings, 66 from 37 balls, that makes him such an exciting talent in this format.
 
 He should be playing such knocks with greater consistency and I hope this innings, coming as it does after an unsettled period in the team, will signal a new phase in his career. On song, he is an extremely talented and destructive player,” wrote Jayawardene. 
 
 Talking about the condition, the 40-year-old observed that with rain forecast in Colombo for the next few days, it will be interesting to see how condition could aid the bowlers. 
 
 “We’ve seen some rain in Colombo in recent days and I wonder how important that might be in the next round of matches. The conditions were challenging at the start for the bowlers with the Premadasa pitch having some pace and bounce. However, with the extra moisture, we might see things change and there could be some extra assistance and juice for the bowlers. Let’s wait and see what happens, but it’s going to be an interesting factor this coming week,” he added. 
 
 
