BHOPAL: After the   dismissed application of the state government to reconsider lifting of ban on controversial film 'Padmaavat', chief minister   said here that it was not concern for law & order, but respect for public sentiments that prompted the decision to ban the film. He said that the state government would go in for review of the apex court order again. 

 But, legal experts feel that the state government has already exhausted legal options to get court's endorsement to its intention to ban screening of the film. 
 
 When asked whether a review petition against Supreme Court order is now possible since the court has refused to ratify ban not once but twice, former advocate general Ravinandan Singh said, "What review?   and Rajasthan governments had gone for review only when they moved application to reconsider ban on Tuesday.
 
 The court has asked both governments to ensure that there is no obstruction in screening of the film. More litigation would not help them."
 
 Senior high court lawyer Naman Nagrath said, "Review can be filed, but the more pertinent question is whether it should be filed after Supreme Court has allowed screening of the film not once but twice.
 
 In my opinion, if they move court again, their petition would be dismissed with cost. The court has asked the two governments to ensure law and order so that screening of the film is not obstructed." 
 
 On chief minister's statement that it was not law & order but public sentiments that he wished to respect by enforcing ban on the film, Nagrath said that if they plead "public sentiment" to be the cause for ban, it would be misconceived by the court because it is not for a government but the censor board to evaluate impact of a film on people. "Once the film is certified for release by the censor board, it's clear that they have taken care of film's likely impact on people and found the film fit for release", he said. 
 
 Eminent Bhopal lawyer Ajay Gupta said, "The chief minister is only trying to project that he is doing everything possible to enforce the ban. It's not legal, but a political issue now. If he was so serious about the ban, the state government should have filed a caveat when petition was filed by producers of the film for lifting of ban so that no order is passed without hearing the state government." 
 
 
