BHOPAL: In a  ,   on Tuesday announced it would allow   of all   settled before December 31, 2016. 

 In one sweep, the move has covered a large vote bank — from the residents of illegal settlements to slum dwellers who are compelled to live in undeveloped areas that lack inadequate housing facilities.
 
 It has also come as a windfall for the realty market that was on the mat after the triple whammy of notebandi-GST-RERA. Expect prices to skyrocket in these areas. In Indore and Bhopal, the going rate in illegal colonies varies from Rs 300 per sq feet to Rs 1,000 sq feet. This could shoot up by up to 300%, say sources.
 
 There are 4,759 unauthorized colonies under 378 civic bodies across the state, with Indore division (1,200) accounting for the biggest chunk. There are 770 illegal colonies in Bhopal division, 1,011 in Gwalior, 511 in Ujjain, 644 in Jabalpur, 341 in Sagar and 282 in Rewa that are likely to be legalized this year.
 
 “We are keeping in mind the problems of those living in unauthorized colonies. We have made necessary amendments to simplify the rules for regularising illegal colonies and invited proposals after surveys in municipal areas,” urban development minister Maya Singh said at a review meeting on Tuesday. She said instructions have been issued to all civic bodies to begin the process of regularisation within 15 days. Camps will be organized in each unauthorized colony where people will be apprised of the municipal rules and the process of regularisation.
 
 “People will be informed about their financial contribution in the camps in each dwelling. The government will take up unauthorized colonies settled before December 31, 2016. All such illegal dwellings must have at least 10% habitation with 70% residents of low income group,” said the minister.
 
 The government plans to recover 20% of the development cost from the dwellers while municipal bodies and the state government will bear the remaining 80%. In well-off colonies, development charges will be split equally — residents to pay 50%. Significantly, the government has permitted contribution from MLA or MP local area development funds to help dwellers collect their share through ‘Janbhagidari’ (public participation) scheme. Cost of water supply, electricity connection and sewage disposal will not be charged separately from the residents during the development of unauthorized areas, said officials.
 
 The legalisation process won’t be a cakewalk. Sources in the secretariat said the government will have to amend rules to regularise construction and unauthorized settlements, provide roads and sanitation, remove commercial or industrial activities, legalise diversion of agricultural land and ensure habitation for homeless and BPL families.
 
 The move could also turn politically explosive as the state government is legalising settlements that started out in violation of the law. Post-regularisation, property titles and land deeds of such colonies will be recognized and can be registered with the local authorities. So, instead of penalising an illegality, the government is going all out to regularise it. For a colony to be legal, it should be built on land notified for residential development in the Master Plan. The decision will be a setback to farmers and original owners, who have the right to sell the land illegally grabbed from them by the colonisers.
 
 
