BHOPAL: In a replay of sorts, male and female guest teachers of government colleges tonsured their heads in the city on Sunday. They threatened they would do the same in Delhi if their major demand— cancellation of recruitment through the PSC— was not conceded. Guest teachers fear they would lose job if the government went ahead with recruiting college teachers through PSC. 

 Last month, contract teachers from across the state tonsured their heads to express their anger over state government’s failure to redress their long-pending demand of regularisation. Their action prompted the government to accept their demand. 
 
 When Dr Parvati Wagre from the government college, Udaipura, announced to tonsure her head, teachers were taken aback. 
 
 Guest Faculty Association president Devraj Singh said tonsuring of head by male teachers was scheduled, but that female guest faculty would do the same surprised everyone. 
 
 “ When female teachers were getting their heads tonsured, others present on the spot were crying. At least, the state government should now listen to us,” said Singh. Some 12 male teachers also tonsured their heads. With that, the guest faculty ended their 2-day protest. “We will gherao residence of education minister   in Gwalior on February 20,” Singh said. 
 
 On Saturday, women teachers polished shoes to protest against the government’s alleged indifference to their woes. Singh alleged the state government was playing with their career and lives. 
 
 “There are around 10,000 guest teachers, including 6,000 female teachers across the state. Instead of regularising them, the state government announced recruitment of assistant professors through PSC,” Singh said. 
 
 Around 3,000 assistant professors are to be selected through the PSC. “It means 3,000 guest faculty will sit at home. We will not let it happen. It is a matter of several thousands lives,” said Singh. 
 
 He demanded that a specific policy be drawn up for guest faculty. “We are playing an important role in running classes, but the state government is harassing us,” Singh said. Interestingly, the AAP came out in support of protesters. Party’s state coordinator  , who met them, criticised the state government for not accepting demands of the guest faculty. 
 
 
