BENGALURU: The metro is a great way to bypass the chaotic traffic on the roads but the journey to and from metro station can take as much time or longer for many commuters. More buses and better routes is the one demand they have to ensure effective and easier last-mile connectivity. 

 These are the findings of a survey by BMRCL and World Resources Institute (WRI), India, which covered commuters at   and MG Road stations. The survey shows that 73% of the commuters use buses for last-mile connectivity at Byappanahalli as opposed to 33% at MG Road. At MG Road, majority of commuters – at 39% – prefer to walk the last mile while the figure tapers to 16% at Byappanahalli. Experts say this is due to the land-use patterns and built-up density around MG Road and the station’s better connectivity, which makes it easier to walk to and from the station. On the other hand, Byappanahalli, a terminal station, is used by commuters, especially techies, to reach   and   so a bus ride is the preferred last-mile mode. Commuters at both stations agree that the frequency of feeder buses needs to be increased to ensure smooth travel.
 
 
  
 
 Autorickshaws are also used by commuters at both stations to reach their destination – 6% at Byappanahalli and 10% at MG Road. 
 
 Around 40% of the survey participants at Byappanahalli and 25% at MG Road said it was necessary to cut travel costs. Presently, 48% of metro users at Byappanahalli spend more than Rs 2,500 per month on transport, compared to 32% of metro users at MG Road. That’s more than double the metro fare, assuming the commuter pays the highest fare of Rs 34 both ways.
 
 Last-mile connectivity is turning out to be the one deterring factor for commuters to take the metro. About 38% of potential users of MG Road metro station said they did not use the metro due to lack of connectivity.
 
 “Asked about improvements required at the station, the strongest need was felt for improvement in bus services. This is also because a large number of   use buses for last-mile connectivity at both stations. At Byappanahalli, more commuters asked for greater frequency of buses, while at MG Road, more commuters asked for new feeder routes,” said Chaitanya Kanuri, senior project associate for urban transport at WRI India.
 
 “The other main improvement areas are in station facilities and autorickshaw services. Station facilities can include multimodal integration, information displays, better amenities for seating/waiting, etc. The major demand at Byappanahalli was for better availability of autorickshaws, while at MG Road, the major demand was for shared autorickshaw services,” said Kanuri. Other improvements sought included increased parking facilities, better pedestrian infrastructure to access the metro stations and greater safety through lighting and presence of security personnel.
 
 The survey was conducted under Station Access and Mobility Program (STAMP), a joint initiative of WRI India and  .
 
 
 
