TRICHY: At a time when agriculture has turned a challenging vocation, a progressive farmer from Musiri in   has been preserving, showcasing and selling hundreds of varieties of seeds at subsidised rates to his struggling mates. Revive traditional seeds and millets — has been the farmer’s motto for the last 10 years to overcome the prevailing water scarcity. 
 
 S Yoganathan, 43, a resident of   village near Musiri and managing director of a farmers producers company, has paddy seeds such as ‘Navara’, ‘Maappillai Samba’, ‘Kichadi Samba’, ‘Poongar’ and ‘Iluppai samba’. He has preserved more than 10 varieties of millets including foxtail millet, small millet, finger millet, ragi, sorghum, horsegram, black horse gram, dhal, green gram and mat beans. These are apart from the 60 varieties of vegetable seeds he has in his possession. 
  
 “Millets are one of the oldest food items known to humans and are a source of nutrition in difficult times such as drought or crop failure. It is relatively cheap and easy to grow and can be stored well for years. Since a single seed produces a lot of grains, it is not expensive either. It does not need any extra fertilizer or water to grow well. It is also seldom affected by pests”, Yoganathan told TOI. 
  
 According to him, farmers are giving up hope of cultivating paddy since there was no water in the reservoirs. They had expressed an overwhelming response to take up millets which had been remaining an unutilised option for decades. “We have appealed to the government to take necessary steps to distribute millets in fair price shops at least once in three months. The commissioner,  , has assured us to do the needful”, he added. 
  
 On his part, Yoganathan has been cultivating various crops on three acres of his ancestral land and has at present raised brinjal on 15 cents organically. He uses ‘Panjakavyam’, ‘Amirthakaraisal’ and herbicides without using chemical fertiliser and pesticide. 
  
 Interestingly, despite raising chemical-free brinjal, he has not fixed a high rate for the produce. “As we need not spend much for chemical fertilizer and pesticide, the cost of production has to be relatively low. However, in order to make a fast buck, many farmers sell organic produces at a higher rate. That is why their sales among the general public are less”, he added. 
  
 As part of the farmer’s efforts to create a common platform to facilitate exchange of seeds as well as traditional and scientific knowledge between the farming and scientific communities, he has been organizing seed festivals where traditional seed varieties are exhibited and exchanged. He has also formed a ‘farmer producer company’ (FPC) and has been striving hard to take up millet cultivation under 200 acres in Musiri taluk alone. He says that if it succeeds, about 4,000 acres lying unused in and around the area could be brought into the stream for millet cultivation. 
  
 Yoganathan appealed to farmers to create a farm pond on their land so that not even a drop of water would go waste and flow to other lands. This would immensely help them to water shortage, he added. 
  
  
