CHENNAI: Greater Chennai Corporation may review its decision to allow free parking for   of the Madras high court on   once the civic body introduces a new parking management system (PMS).

 In January, the corporation approved a request from the HC’s registrar (management) to turn the paid parking slots around the court complex for the exclusive use of members of the   (MBA) and the Madras High Court Advocates’ Association (MHCAA). Consequently, the stretch from Rajaji statue till the MBA gate was converted into parking area for MBA members. The stretch from MBA gate till the Aavin gate was given to the MHCAA to be used as parking area for its members. Separate parking zone for visitors and government vehicles was identified near the HC’s south arch gate entrance.
 
 “The slots were previously managed by TEXCO attendants. The contract was ending on January 31. We decided to terminate the contract a few days early to facilitate the request,” said a corporation official. However, it is the corporation’s decision to lift the parking fee restriction on these slots which raised eyebrows. Corporation sources told TOI that since the civic body was set to introduce dynamic rates for identified parking zones in Chennai, which includes charging two-wheelers, allowing advocates to benefit from free parking would have stuck out like a sore thumb.
 
 “We will review the situation (free parking) once the PMS is in place. Anyway, we will need to streamline the management of all parking spots under one vendor,” said deputy commissioner (works) M Govinda Rao. Advocate V R  , who is MBA’s secretary, told TOI that it was essential that the space around court complex be reserved for advocates. “Earlier, the court premises would be crammed with vehicles. There were two instances when people died because the ambulances carrying them could not exit the court premises in time,” he said.
 
 When asked if revoking the free parking privilege would go down well among advocates, Kamalanathan said that the associations would discuss the situation if the corporation introduced the new parking policy. Corporation officials expect to call tenders for PMS project in April. This means that TEXCO, which still manages 101 parking slots in the city, is likely to earn another short term extension as the civic body estimates that any new vendor would need at least two months’ time to set up a parking database and related infrastructure.
 
 
