HYDERABAD: A Class 4 student of a private school in the city was allegedly made to stand outside the classroom for over two months for not clearing his fee dues.

 According to the complaint registered with a child rights organisation, Md   studying at  ,  ,  , was sent out of the classroom for over two months. The child’s grandfather Mohd Gulam told TOI that though his grandson was being punished daily, he did not confide in his family members.
 
 “When I went to the school to pay the fees today, I noticed my grandson standing outside the class. When I questioned him, he said for the past two months he was being punished for not paying the fee by being asked to stand outside the class and not attend any classes post lunch.”
 
 Gulam said this incident has had such an impact on his grandson’s psyche that he is not willing to go to school or eating properly.
  
  
 Explaining why they couldn’t pay the fee on time, Gulam said “My son went to Dubai in search of a job. We couldn’t pay the fee for November and December. Kamaal has been studying in this school since nursery and I explained to the school authorities that we will clear the dues as soon as possible. If they were not convinced by our explanation, they could have told us the child will be not allowed into the class instead of making him stand outside.”
 
 Stating that schools have no right to punish a child in this manner, he said the family will soon approach the education department with a complaint.
 
 However, when contacted, the school authorities refused to comment on the issue.
 
 Child right activists, meanwhile, demanded that the education department initiate action against the school. “The inaction of the education department is leading to students being insulted, which in turn is leading to a rise in number of student suicides. To control this, the education department needs to initiate action against the school for insulting the child and harming his dignity,” said Balala Hakkula Sangham honorary president Achyuta Rao, adding that Gulam approached the   seeking justice for his grandson.
 
 
