HYDERABAD: Days after a 14-year-old student committed suicide, for allegedly being punished for not paying the school fee, a committee has now been formed to seek justice for the minor girl. The committee has demanded that the government take over the private school in which she was studying.

 Drawing parallels with the   case, the   that has been named after the student, also demanded that the state convert all government high schools into residential schools and provide quality education so that students from backward castes can enrol with these institutes to receive education, without being humiliated in other private and corporate schools.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 “She reminds me of Rohith Vemula, who was also a victim of discrimination and lost his life because of caste politics. The sentence ‘Your caste people never pay the fee’ by the management of Jyothi High School in   (where the girl studied) seems to have bothered her so much that it eventually pushed her to death,” said  , professor at  , who has been appointed advisor to the Samithi. He further said: “Although they can’t afford private education, many parents are admitting their wards in these schools in hope of a bright future for their children. But here students are being humiliated which is costing them their lives. At least now the government must take over this particular private school and convert all government high schools into residential ones.”
 
 The Samithi members also maintained that the government, just by putting up a bunch of residential schools, cannot claim to be providing free KG to PG education. “When there are 30 lakh students in the state, the government can’t make such claims by providing free education to just two lakh student,” said  , a Dalit activist.
 
 They also questioned government’s move to issue permission to Jyothi High School despite it not having basic facilities and the required number of teachers. They demanded strict action against concerned officials from the education department — apart from the school management .
 
