TRICHY: In the absence of comprehensive data on native cattle across the state, a mobile application called “save native breeds” which offers details of the breeds and their breeders along with their location was launched on Friday.

 The app, launched by the startup Climate smart technology (CST), is meant to help farmers purchase cattle breeds by helping them identify the right kind of breeders based on their need.  , founder of Climate smart technology who developed the app, said that the mobile application was aimed at reversing the trend of dwindling native cattle breeds in the state. Jallikattu protest had created interest among people on native cattle breeds but a sustainable economic model had to be created to save the breeds. 
 
 Most farmers preferred exotic cattle spices for more milk and meat that subsequently yielded more profit. This gave way to mindless artificial insemination and led to the wiping out of bulls thereby turning pure breeds into mixed ones. Even the native goat and sheep breed had declined due to cheaper poultry meat and egg promotion, he said, adding that mechanisation of agriculture too had a role in it. Jeevanandam who had worked for   organization in various countries, is now based in Pollachi. 
 
  “Countries like Australia, European Union and   have found milk of Indian breeds healthier and adopted them but these are yet to be employed significantly in the country, especially Tamil Nadu,” siad Jeevanandan stressing that unless native cattle breeds became profitable, it was very difficult to save them from extinction. 
 
 “The over two-month-old app has about 120 farmers making use of over 40 native cattle breeders across the country,” says Jeevanandan. The app is developed in a simple and easy way for farmers to locate breeders across the country who have these prized breeds of germplasm to enable collective conservation and restoration, he added. Farmers can register themselves in the app and upload photos and videos of their cattle breeds. 
 
 M S Swaminathan Research Foundation has signed MoU with CST to validate and develop the app. On Friday, Holy   in   signed an MoU with the startup for use of the “save native breeds” app. 
 
 
