KOLKATA: Seven people were injured, three of them seriously, after an app cab drove into three roadside stalls on the congested   at   on Monday evening. While a 56-year-old woman has fractured bones in her back and will require at least two corrective surgeries, a 23-year-old youth has been admitted to a private hospital off EM Bypass. Doctors there said he was out of danger but would require extensive medical attention to get him back on his feet. 

 "It was around 8.20pm and the area outside the   station was crowded as usual. Suddenly an app cab came speeding towards the stalls. It was weaving through the crowd, trying to avoid hitting people. The car first smashed into a tea stall on the right and then turned left and rammed into two stalls on the left pavement. The first one was a tea stall and the other a fast food outlet. The injured include a customer at the food stall. We suspect the driver was teaching somebody to drive who may have lost his nerves," a resident of the area said.
 
 The police have seized the vehicle and detained the driver. An officer from the Sonarpur police station said they were investigating whether there was a learner at the wheel or not when the accident occurred.
 
 The fast food stall was run by Anjana Dhara and her husband Gopal. When the car dashed into the stall, Somu Sikdar (23) from Garia's Mahamayatala was buying food. The car ran over Sikdar's leg and then hit the Dharas. The couple were, however, not seriously injured. Kabita Ghosh (56) was at her tea stall when the vehicle hit her in the back, injuring her severely. She will require two surgeries. The other seriously injured is yet to be identified. All seven were taken to M R   from where Sikdar, Ghosh and the unidentified person were shifted to other hospitals. The rest were discharged after being administered stitches and first aid.
 
 "My mother-in-law's injuries are severe. We can't say when the surgeries will take place. The driver is a local and we suspect there was somebody else in the car," said Gautam Das, Ghosh's son-in-law.
 
 Nobody seemed too keen on lodging a complaint against the car owner, who arrived at the spot and visited the injured at M R Bangur. He later got Sikdar admitted to the private hospital.
 
 
