B P Biddappa

 I still remember the day when I was working in a factory — we connected this ‘new’ antenna called (strangely enough) a ‘dish’ and got our first glimpse of  . Today, years later, we have over 850 channels on our TV sets. However, this is apart from the fact that youngsters now prefer live streaming onto their laptops or smartphones. The choice available to all of us is staggering. From clothes and food to entertainment, travel choices to white goods — we are faced with an array of incredible options.
 
 Importantly, this is also true in terms of   and   choices.
 
 The challenge is how do we show our people these 850 channels that they could surf, but ensure that our TV set is always upgraded so they don’t surf televisions. Or indeed laptops.
 
 The first step is helping our people break through the clutter of opportunities to understand what they really want. This is in terms of roles, career tracks, experiences, workplaces, rewards, bosses, etc. Yes, you heard that right. Years ago, you could not choose your line manager. Today, people make choices based on line managers.
 
 Getting a sense of individual purpose helps people with their own true compass — to navigate through an array of options available. An informed choice is always a better option than an accidental one. Purpose helps us understand what gives us energy, where we get our ‘chi’ from, what gets us to work and beyond. It’s not something that is fixed, but is ever evolving.
 
 Next, it’s truly important that our people understand the purpose of their roles. What is the purpose of the brand I am working on? What is the fundamental purpose behind my role as an   business partner? What is the leadership impact that I can have as a factory director? This helps the role come to life. It makes the conversation move from what the role does to what impact do we want to create for the business.
 
 Precisely in the same direction, organisations with a sense of purpose have stronger employer brands and more focused and impactful delivery. Leadership is more resiliently able to thrive in a volatile world and business results are holistic and sustainable.
 
 Does purpose pay for an individual? It helps me make the right choices, for the right reasons. It gets me out of bed. It helps me weather the ups and downs. It helps my team understand what gives me joy. It helps me create the role I wish out of the job I have. It helps me understand life beyond the job. It helps me make everyday count. It puts me in charge of my own destiny.
 
 Does purpose pay for an organisation? It helps us make choices on right and wrong. It helps us attract those who care, for what we care. It creates the magic that people connect to. It helps us weather the good days and, especially, the bad days. It helps our consumers get more out of life. It builds for sustainable financials.
 
 Importantly, an individual’s purpose should be all-encompassing. It should find reflection in work-life for that is where a large part of one’s conscious time is spent. However, it should find meaning beyond as it is not bound by current role, organisation or immediate state-of-being. The true task for next-generation HR leaders is how effectively they can help people and organisations find purpose.
 
 In a world that is increasingly diverse and spoilt for choice, purpose could, in fact, well be the next-generation people driver that propels business and people performance. The challenge, as always, is how to harness and channelise it. Probably, what the person said who first invented fire! Or the wheel!
 
 The writer is ED (HR),  . Views are personal
 
 
