KOLKATA: The dance of democracy in rural Bengal claimed yet another life on the second day of filing nominations, with no let-up in armed attacks on political rivals. 

 On the contrary, the violence that started with the use of lathis and swords ended with bombs and pistols turning Uttar Dinajpur’s Raiganj into a battlefield on Wednesday.
 
 Armed men allegedly of   chased BJP candidate from Bankura’s Ranibandh, Ajit Murmu, with bombs soon after he came out of the block office on filing his nomination. While Murmu ran for his life, bomb splinters hit him. He was rushed to Bankura Sammilani Medical College, where he succumbed to injuries. Trinamool toughs also allegedly dragged CPM’s Rita Bauri by her hair out of the SDO office while she was on her way to file nomination.
 
 Earlier, a BJP rally going towards the Raiganj block office had bombs thrown at it allegedly by Trinamool toughs. In the melee, some outsiders opened fire turning the area into a war zone. The idea was to prevent BJP candidates Samru Oraon and Mayarani Roy from filing nominations for the Kamalbari gram  . Three of the outsiders were arrested.
 
 In West Burdwan, BJP retaliated by allegedly mounting attacks on Trinamool candidates returning after filing nominations in Asansol and Kanksa.
 
 Trouble also broke out in the Adivasi area   under Nazat 1gram panchayat in North 24 Parganas after BJP supporters were beaten up and houses ransacked allegedly by motorbike-borne goons late on Tuesday. On Wednesday, Adivasi women armed with broomsticks, bows and arrows blocked the Nazat-Basirhat Road for over three hours. 
 
 In Murshidabad, Congress candidates were beaten up outside the Behrampore BDO office allegedly by ruling-party toughs and warned against filing nominations. Birbhum, where panchayat poll violence has been particularly intense, again erupted with alleged Trinamool goons attacking BJP’s Sainthia block leader at his Satpalsa home on Tuesday evening. 
 
 For full report, log on to www.timesofindia.com
 
 
