NEW DELHI: Indira Gandhi International Airport’s   (T2) is set to get a lot   with   announcing a   of   across   from   with effect from  . Passengers flying to Goa, Cochin, Ahmedabad, Patna, Pune, Surat and Gorakhpur will have to board flights from T2, while other domestic flights will continue to operate from T1.

 “To facilitate smooth, uninterrupted operations and easier identification for passengers, the airline has programmed all new flights operating to and from T2 to have a four digit flight number starting with ‘8’ (eg SG 8913),” SpiceJet said on Thursday. Passengers will be sent communication through all mediums about the change of terminal, the airline added.
 
  
 Arrangements for bus services between T1 and T2 have also been made in case passengers mistakenly arrive at the wrong terminal. While GoAir has already shifted its entire operations to T2, SpiceJet and IndiGo are required to shift partial operations to T2 to allow work on T1, which is being expanded from its current capacity of 20 million passengers per annum to 40 million. IGI handled 63.5 million passengers in 2017, making it the seventh busiest airport in Asia.
 
 Sources said the entire shift to T2 for both airlines is expected to take place in the next couple of weeks with IndiGo also in discussion with the airport operator, Delhi International Airport Ltd (DIAL). The shift from T1 to T2 will also see the area become almost double for passengers — increasing from 25,917 sq m at T1 to a combined area of 62,010 sq m.
 
 Terminal 2 was serving as the international airport until 2010. After the commissioning of T3, it was mothballed, except for Haj operations. The refurbished T2 has six reclaim belts, 74 check-in counters, six aerobridges and 12 X-ray machines.
 
 “Extensive arrangements have been made for hosting the passengers of both airlines. The passenger area will also be more than double, which will provide a comfortable experience for passengers,” said a source.
 
 Supreme Court had last month dismissed IndiGo’s plea challenging the shift of operations from T1 to T2. The court said that both SpiceJet and IndiGo will have to carry out a partial shift in discussion with DIAL.
 
 
