CENTURION: Of the nine away tours that   has undertaken with the Indian team, two have been to Sri Lanka and one to the West Indies. Of the remaining six — thrice to South Africa (including this one), once to England, Australia and New Zealand — the India No. 3 has 895 runs to show from 16 Test matches.

 
 
 
 Barring the second innings 153 at the Wanderers, when India toured here in December 2013 for two Tests, when he averaged 70 riding on this knock, the Saurashtra batsman’s average from the rest of the matches put together has collectively never gone past 30.
 
 
 
 Pujara will turn 30 on Day Two of the third Test at the Wanderers. To be fair to the performance he’s put up so far here in South Africa, it’ll be a birthday gift to the batsman if he ends up playing that game, inconsequential as it might be.
 
 Sport is both cruel and charming. Pujara, the batsman with the potential to fill in for the gaping hole in the top-order, caused by the exit of the Fab Four, is learning it the hard way.
 
 The Indian cricket fraternity, and to a large extent even opponents around the world, have always held the batsman in high esteem. His ability to stand up to attacks and play a game of patience in overwhelming conditions is what has made him to be perceived as special.
 
 13,625 First Class runs are certainly special. And to top it, if reputation alone allowed to you once walk ahead of   at No. 3 — against Australia in Bengaluru, 2010 — and you ended up scoring a fine 72 on debut in the process, you must be held in high esteem.
 
 That is precisely what happened to the Saurashtra cricketer who was always seen and raised as India’s big-ticket hero in the longest format of the game. Not so much in technique but in temperament, Pujara had to be the answer to India’s overseas troubles, one that had been kept in check to a large extent when the likes of  , Rahul Dravid and   still plied their trade.
 
 The  , which concluded on Wednesday with a massive defeat for India, saw Pujara run himself out in both the innings. It was a record of sorts that he’ll definitely be sorry about. Worse, the runouts were only an extension of Pujara’ compounding overseas worries that have failed to find any solutions.
 
 In the first innings, he just blanked out, running for a single that wasn’t. In the second innings, he blanked out again running for a triple that wasn’t.
 
 Heading to the Wanderers, he’s running out of options.
 
 Reputations alone don’t live long. Bats men need to score runs. The   has constantly reminded itself in the recent past that the Pujaras of Indian cricket need to be wrapped in cotton wool, lucky that they haven’t fallen to the lure of the T20 lucre. Cricketers like Pu jara are rare and Indian cricket — despite all the lack of focus that it’s blamed for — do realise the worth.
 
 Trouble begins when there are no re turns.
 
