KOLKATA: A six-month-old boy died on Sunday morning after his mother jumped into the Hooghly with the baby in her arms. Though they were brought out of water by   officers, the baby could not be saved.

 
  
 
 Mamata Debi, 22, a resident of Motihari in Bihar, started staying at   after she moved to Kolkata with her husband Rahul Kumar, 25. The couple started having trouble around six months back after their son was born. Rahul, a cabby, used to go out in the morning and returned very late and Mamata was upset over it.
 
 On Sunday morning, the couple had a tiff and Mamata left the house with the baby immediately after Rahul went out. By the time she reached the Howrah bridge area, Mamata had decided to kill both herself and her child.
 
  resident Ramen Sarkar, who was on his way to market, spotted the woman around 10.30am. He noticed her trying to throw a baby in the water. When Sarkar rushed to her she broke into tears, narrating to him her trouble at home. He assumed that the woman would go back home and left the spot.
 
 After Sarkar left, Mamata climbed a banyan tree. Before she could reach a branch hanging over the water, some locals noticed her and raised an alarm. However, before she could be rescued, the thin branch she was on broke and they fell into the water. Officers aboard a nearby Navy patrol boat noticed the woman trying to get hold of a broken branch and stay afloat. With the low tide setting in, the water was flowing fast and the woman was being swept away. The officers managed to get the woman and the baby out of water and handed them over to the river traffic police.
 
 “We were alerted about the incident by the men on the Navy boat. When we reached the spot, we figured that the condition of the baby was critical,” said an officer with the river traffic police. They sent the mother and son to hospital escorted by a constable. By the time they were admitted in the hospital, her husband was informed by a neighbour.
 
 Doctors at the hospital declared the baby dead on arrival. When Rahul reached the hospital, his wife was sitting on the floor trying to come to terms with the loss.
 
 “We tried a lot to save the child, but it was too late by the time they were brought in,” said an officer with the   police station.
 
