NAGPUR: A team of doctors from one more private hospital has reached   in Yavatmal district, scanning for cases of kidney ailments. The team from   in Yavatmal collected blood samples of 50 persons on Tuesday, with plans to test the entire village for kidney functioning in coming days. 

 Before this, a team from Datta Meghe Institute of Medical Sciences, Sawangi, Wardha, had taken 34 persons to the hospital for further tests. This was done before the government authorities started full-fledged health screening in the area.
 
 Asola came into the news after a local pathologist, Ajay Rathore, filed a complaint with the district collector that 14 persons in the village had died of kidney failure over seven years. Soon after this the district health office took samples of 14 persons from the village, and the government medical college took another 12 samples. 
 
 The health department plans to collect more random samples from Asola and two more villages in the vicinity in a day. The department so far has reports of 71 persons. These include 14 collected by district health department itself, 12 from GMC, and 49 tests done by Rathore, the pathologist.
 
 “Out of this, high creatinine level was found in seven persons. It was around 3mg/dl, but all the seven persons are above the age of 70 years, for whom the level is normal. The normal range of creatinine is up to 1.05 mg/dl but that is for younger persons,” said a senior health official monitoring the affair. Creatinine is one of the indicators of kidney health.
 
 The government does not see a crisis as yet, however, activists differ. The doctors from Sai Shraddha Hospital have been sent by  , a voluntary organization led by activist  , who had taken part in last year’s farmers agitation seeking loan waiver.
 
 Dr   of the hospital said the 50 persons whose samples have been taken include those who are already facing kidney troubles. Some are undergoing treatment, but many have discontinued treatment as well.
 
 “The persons whose blood samples were taken have also complained of symptoms like body ache, abdominal pain and difficulty in urination. We will be conducting kidney functioning tests from the samples, including parameters like creatinine, urea and calcium level in the blood,” said Moon.
 
 Moon said presence of hard water in the area can be one of the reasons for kidney troubles. Samples from the water sources will have to be taken.
 
 WATER SAMPLES TEST OK
 
 Tests of six water samples taken from the sources at Asola by district authorities have not reported presence of any chemicals which can damage the kidney, said a government official in Yavatmal. The reports were received on Tuesday. Nothing except marginal amount of nitrate, which can be due to use of organic fertilizer, was found. Nitrates do not harm the kidney, said the official.
 
 Samples have also been sent for testing presence of heavy metals at the government lab in Pune, which would send a report in seven days, the source said.
 
 
