Mangaluru: Veteran Congress leader B Janardhan Poojary’s  , which he terms as, ‘True autobiography’— “since it’s all about truth,” will be released on   this year.

 Poojary, 80, started writing his autobiography early in 2016.
 
 The veteran, who shot into the limelight for his loan melas in the 80’s, had not thought of writing an autobiography earlier. He keeps his cards close to his chest, as far as revealing the content, especially on controversial issues, saying in a generic way that every development that has taken place from his childhood till date has been covered in the autobiography. “Every word in the book will be the truth, and there will be no exaggeration in it. It will start with my childhood, the poverty I faced and how I overcame challenges,’’ he said.
 
 The book is just 210 pages. “It’s gone for printing, but till I can, I will be adding more pages to it,’’ said Poojary to TOI. He stayed clear of giving an answer when asked about whether the recent incidents of humiliation he faced will be recorded in his book. “I have not given a thought to it. Perhaps I will give it a go by,’’ he said. On the day of the release, 1,000 copies will be on for sale.
 
 Poojary has brought about some far-reaching reforms within his Billava community, following the philosophy of Narayana Guru, who fought against casteism and worked on propagating new values of freedom in spirituality and towards social equality. His move in 2013 allowing women who have lost their husbands to be priests at the century-old Kudroli Sri Gokarnanatheshwara temple here, won him plaudits. In 2011, in an attempt to break free of age-old beliefs, Sri Kshetra Gokarnanateshwara, for the first time in its history, gave widows pride of place at Dasara festivities. Each widow received a saree, a small kumkum box, bangles and jasmine flowers, normally not given in accordance with ancient religious traditions. Poojary, who has rubbed many the wrong way, both inside the party and outside it, has built himself a reputation as an unflagging worker with integrity.
 
 The octogenarian is attempting at documenting each and every incident which happened in the country that has been a part of his life. The Congress leader, who is not in the best of health of late, had recently cast doubt on whether he will be able to attend the Dasara festivities being held at Sri Gokarnatheshwara temple this year or not.
 
 On whether the book will be controversial or not, Poojary gave a diplomatic reply. He said, “I will not suppress anything in the book.’’ 
 
 
