LUDHIANA: A local court has sentenced a person to   after it found him guilty in a murder case. The court of additional sessions judge Amar Paul also imposed a fine of Rs 20,000, and in default of payment of fine to undergo rigorous imprisonment for six months.

 On 17 April 2014, Daba police had registered a murder case against unidentified accused after the body of an unidentified person was found in an unoccupied house near Lohara Bridge. Later, on 23 April, the body was identified as that of Manoj Kumar of Kabir Nagar by his father Banke Lal and brother  , the complainant. On Pramod’s statement, police had booked the accused   of   in Daba for the offence.
 
 As per prosecution, the complainant came to know that on 16 April, Inderjit had called his brother Manoj and told him to come to  , but Manoj asked Inderjit to come to his house in Kabir Nagar, upon which Inderjit again told his brother to come to Nirmal Palace, and refused to come to his house in Kabir Nagar. So, Manoj then went to Nirmal Palace. Inderjit then took Manoj to Ishwar Nagar in an autorickshaw and murdered him brutally inside the shop.
 
 Inderjit had started a kitty of one lakh with Manoj and Inderjit had taken the kitty. As such, Manoj asked for the money due to him, because of which the accused Inderjit murdered his brother Manoj. The prosecution said that on 26 June, Bachittar Singh, numberdar of Lohara, recorded a statement regarding extra-judicial confession by the accused about the crime committed by him on 16 April 2014. On 30 June, police arrested the accused from Sherpur Chowk, after which it produced a challan against him in a court of law.
 
 During trial of the case, the accused claimed innocence, but did not produce any evidence in defence. So, the additional public prosecutor pleaded for maximum punishment for the accused on the basis of prosecution witnesses, post-mortem report, etc. The defence counsel argued that the entire case was based on circumstantial evidence.
 
 The court observed that all circumstances proved to be against the accused, and all circumstantial evidence had a definite tendency to point towards the guilty. It added that from circumstantial evidence on record, an inference of guilt could be drawn which was established by the prosecution, and in all probability, the crime had been committed by the accused.
 
 
