Amritsar: Punjab chief minister Capt Amarinder Singh sought strengthening of cooperation between India and Canada, especially when it came to investment in Punjab, during his meeting with Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau in Amritsar on Wednesday. 

 Amarinder expressed his keenness on engaging with Canada in domains related to economic cooperation. Stating that trade and commerce relations between the two countries were low at the moment, Amarinder urged Trudeau to take steps to push investment by Canadian businesses in Punjab. Both leaders agreed to collaborate through joint projects aimed at facilitating progress of both.
 
 CM’s media adviser Raveen Thukral said Amarinder identified higher education, scientific research and technology, innovation and startups, and skill development as some of the areas in which Canada could contribute to the development of Punjab, saying its people continued to play an important role in the progress of the North American country. “The CM sought a student-exchange programme and MoUs with universities and other institutions of learning in Canada, and regretted that an agreement signed with the University of Saskatchewan did not materialise,” Thukral said.
 
 He said Amarinder also suggested pulses, maize and livestock as areas of cooperation in terms of scientific research and technology. He said Canada could also help promote immigration of trained Punjabi youth to its shores. The chief minister mentioned his government’s ‘Connect with Your Roots’ initiative, saying it could facilitate youth from Punjabi diaspora in Canada to come and see the state, and urged the Canadian government to support the programme.
 
 Books for PM, phulkari for wife
 
 During the meeting, Punjab chief minister showered gifts upon Trudeau family. He presented Trudeau his own book ‘Honour and Fidelity - World War I’ and ‘History of Sikhs’ by Khushwant Singh. He also presented a traditional Phulkari dupatta and a shawl to Trudeau’s wife, Sophie Grégoire. He himself presented several gifts to Trudeau’s children, and went to see off the Canadian PM and his family off at the hotel as they left for the airport. Chief principal secretary to CM Suresh Kumar and chief secretary Karan Avtar Singh also accompanied Amarinder.
 
 
