MYSURU: Affirming his government’s intent to provide quality education at all levels, chief minister   on Wednesday pointed out that, while the percentage of students opting for higher education in foreign countries including America, was around 80 to 85%, it hovered around 24% in India, and the corresponding figure for Karnataka was 26%. Siddaramaiah, who inaugurated the Maharani’s Women’s Commerce and Management College on Wednesday, said that the government was making efforts to increase the figure to 40%.

 Expressing his delight at the increase in the percentage of girls opting for higher education, Siddaramaiah said, “If women obtain education, then family members at home too will receive education, which is why it is very important for more women to get educated across Karnataka.”
 
 Pointing to the many schemes rolled out by the Congress government to encourage education in the state, Siddaramaiah added, “From this year, we will be providing free laptops to students who have cleared II PUC.” The CM exhorted students not to think about what society had given them, but instead think what they could do for its welfare. “You can become a great human being if you are satisfied with what you have done,” he said.
 
 The CM said that Mysuru had received funds to the tune of Rs 2,052 crore during his tenure. “Of the total funds sanctioned for Mysuru, Rs 1,500 crore has been given to Chamaraja constituency represented by  . One of the reasons we have sanctioned a huge sum for Mysuru is because it is the Heritage City, and a beautiful city. Most of the gardens and heritage structures in the city fall under Chamaraja constituency,” said Siddaramaiah.
 
 Recalling the contribution of Nalwadi Krishnaraja Wadiyar on the occasion, Siddaramaiah said, “He contributed a lot for the welfare of the people. He established schools, colleges, provided facilities for drinking water, healthcare facilities by building KR Hospital.”
 
 The CM said that the government had sanctioned Rs174 crore for the new college and hostel at Paduvarahalli, in addition to providing Rs 46 crore for a hostel near the Nanjaraja Bahadhur Choultry. “I am aware of the fact that nearly six to ten students were staying in one room owing to lack of adequate boarding arrangements,” he said.
 
 Compensation to 157 rain-affected families
 
 “I visited Paduvarahalli, which suffered badly when heavy rain lashed Mysuru late last year, and the houses and property of many families were damaged. They will be getting compensation due to them,” said Siddaramaiah. As many as 157 households will be paid compensation. “The government will also construct a Samudaya Bhavan at Paduvarahalli,” he added.
 
 ‘New building similar to the ones built in the time of Maharajas’
 
 MLA Vasu said that Maharani Kempananjammani established Maharani’s College in 1902, and her foresight continued to have an impact on the lives of young girls 115 years later. “The state government has ensured that the new building is similar to the old one in terms of its looks. At the same time, we have also ensured that it has all the state-of-the-art facilities,” Vasu said.
 
 
