KOLKATA: As she finally stepped out of the hospital on Thursday after a 65-day stay—52 days against her wish—Vandana Bagchi (65) looked exhausted and anxious. She could not return home though she longed for the comfort of her own room as she was too weak to climb up the stairs at her house on CIT Road.

 So, after the police escorted her out of   around 12.30pm, her family took her to her husband’s office at Ballygunge, where she stayed put till her son could reserve a hotel room. “Our home doesn’t have an elevator. Given her condition, she has to rest. She also needs to destress. We are considering taking her to a hotel for a few days so that she doesn’t have to move around much. A new environment may help her overcome the trauma she faced at the hospital,” her son,  , said.
 
  
 “Horrific” was the one word she had to describe the ordeal at the hospital. “There could have been a problem but you do not treat people the way they did. The nurses were arrogant, the doctors refused to check when I complained of respiratory distress and worse, they refused to even clean my room,” she said, halting to catch her breath. She claimed she was being rushed into the general ward and compelled to take the stairs. “They kept on pushing and pulling me,” she alleged even as she showed TOI a video her daughter   (Das) took of the untidy room in which she was kept in the hospital and how the authorities apparently denied her treatment.
 
  recounted when she suffered respiratory distress. “They neither gave me any medicine or did they treat me. I was lucky my daughter was around. She raised an alarm and ensured I was given nebuliser to ease my breathing. Those days were simply horrific,” she said. Sunayana, who would get her mother food and water at hospital, said, “Things got from bad to worse. First, they stopped giving her food and even water and then, medicines. They even left the room unclean.”
 
 Siddhartha pointed out that they never claimed they would not pay the bills. “The day before the discharge, the hospital had said our total bill was Rs 3 lakh. But the next day, they said it was Rs 7 lakh. For any household, it’s difficult to arrange for Rs 4 lakh overnight. We were not running away, all we wanted was some time. Yet, they wouldn’t allow that,” he said. It was then that Siddhartha decided to go to the health commission. “I heard our chief minister making it clear that this is illegal. This is wrongful confinement. So, we took legal steps. The HC order has vindicated us. The court is our last resort to get justice.”
 
 For Sunayana, the police role was not without question. She claimed that when she, along with her brother and father, had gone to get Vandana discharged earlier, their questions prompted the management to call the police. “But the cops played a different role today,” she added.
 
 
