Chandigarh: The budget of the upcoming financial year of the Chandigarh municipal corporation (MC) will be presented and discussed in detail in the monthly general   of the MC on Monday. Monday’s general house meeting will be largely focused around the MC financial budget.

 Since the finance and contract committee of the civic body has passed Rs 910 crore budget in the meeting, held few days back, the house comprising all 36 municipal councillors will discuss the budget in detail. After the discussion, the councillors can suggest some new and innovative projects required in their respective areas as a result of which minor changes can be expected in the budget. 
 
 “Since the budget will be put in front of all the members for the first time, each member of the general house will be given a certain time frame to put forth their views regarding the same after which a final decision will be taken. Though the officers have prepared the agenda, often minor changes happen owing to various possible reasons. Only after discussion and approval of the general house, the budget will be sent to the Chandigarh administration for their consent before being given the money,” said an official.
 
 The civic body has kept optimum amount for the engineering department. Since most of the money is being spent on the developmental works, generous amount of money has been proposed for all wings of the engineering department like building and roads, public health, electrical, horticulture and so on.
 
 Apart from the financial budget for the upcoming financial year, around half a dozen developmental agendas are also coming up for discussion in the general house meeting, like revised estimate of the Mahila Bhawan, hiring of employees in the MC on contractual basis for works and other developmental agendas.
 
 No increment 
 
 The entire exercise of the budget of the MC for the next financial year seems an eyewash, as the Chandigarh administration has already decided to give grant-in-aid of Rs 269 crore. There is no increase of a single penny in the MC’s grant-in-aid by the Chandigarh administration as Rs 269 crore was sanctioned to them last year too. Though, the MC has prepared figures of Rs 910 crore, they won’t get more than decided grant in aid.
 
 
