CHENNAI: A decision on disqualifying a legislator can only be taken by the speaker of the   and the issue is outside the jurisdiction of courts, assembly speaker P Dhanapal submitted before the Madras high court on Wednesday.

 Senior counsel C S   made the submissions on behalf of the speaker in connection with a plea moved by DMK whip   seeking disqualification of deputy chief minister   and 10 other members of the House for voting against the motion of confidence moved by chief minister   on February 18, 2017.
 
 "A court can interfere in the decisions already taken by the speaker, but it cannot direct the speaker to act upon complaints," Vaidyanathan said.
 
 Moreover, he pointed out, a plea is already pending with a three-judge bench of the Supreme Court to decide on the powers of high courts over the decisions of speakers of assemblies and sought time to file a counter affidavit.
 
 Recording the submissions, the first bench of Chief Justice   and Justice Abdul Quoddhose posted the plea to February 13 for further hearing. The issue pertains to a batch of pleas heard by the first bench involving powers of the speaker and the jurisdiction of the court to interfere, including one moved by the DMK whip, assailing the disqualification of 18 rebel   MLAs. 
 
 
 The petition also questions the legality of Pannerselvam and K Pandiarajan occupying the posts of deputy chief minister and minister respectively, when they were deemed to have been disqualified as legislators when they voted against the motion of confidence moved by the chief minister.
 
 The first bench of the court recently concluded the hearing on the pleas moved by the 18 MLAs assailing their disqualification before taking up the plea moved by the DMK whip.
 
 When the matter came up for hearing, senior counsel Kapil Sibal, representing Sakkarapani submitted that the speaker had failed to take action against Paneerselvam and 10 other members for voting against the chief minister’s motion of confidence on February 18, 2017.
 
 “The speaker has so far not justified his inaction against the MLAs either to us or to the court. But he swiftly acted against the 18 MLAs who made a representation to the governor withdrawing their support to the chief minister. The MLAs met the governor on August 22, and the speaker initiated action against them on August 24,” Sibal said.
 
 
 
