NAGPUR: The traffic police have launched a drive to penalize school transport operators violating safety norms. On Wednesday, the traffic police fined 665 vehicle owners -- mostly autorickshaws and vans — for ferrying schoolchildren in excess of the permissible seating capacity.

 Senior police official told TOI the traffic police started an inspection drive on Wednesday to check if school transport vehicles comply with stipulated safety norms. The inspection mainly focused on overcrowded autorickshaws, vans and school buses.
 
 Led by   traffic Ravindrasinh Pardeshi, the traffic police have formed five squads to check vehicles across the city. The teams inspected vehicles on more than 10 parameters including necessary permissions, if operators have signed contracts with schools, if drivers employed are experienced and possess authorized driving licence. The traffic police also checked whether vehicle operators ferry students according to the capacity of the vehicle.
 
 On the first day of the drive, autos and vans were found to be the worst offenders – some even cramming as many as 24 children in a single   van against the sanctioned seven. The police have booked 151 school buses, 245 vans and 269 autorickshaws.
 
 The scale of violations has prompted police to consider revoking the permits and driving licences of repeat offenders. They have already been warned of stern legal action, including cancellation of vehicle permits and driving licences, the officer said. 
 
 Though the traffic police issued challans, they did not detain any vehicle. “If we detain the erring vehicles, children going to school will be inconvenienced. Children may also be petrified if police officers detain the vehicles. It will affect them psychologically. The cops just issued challans to the transport operator. The process takes just 10 to 15 minutes,” a cop clarified.
 
 Senior PI   and in-charge of Chamber-III traffic visited 20 educational institutions and interacted with principals and teachers to promote safe transportation of students in transport vehicles.
 
 The drive would continue for some more time, said the traffic police. “All we ask is the safety of children. Offenders will be fined, police will only book and issue challans,” traffic police said.
 
 On several occasions, TOI had highlighted violation of school safety guidelines framed by the state government, putting the lives of kids at risk. Hundreds of overcrowded autorickshaws with kids, their bags and lunch boxes hanging out can be spotted in front of many schools. Several vans engaged in ferrying schoolchildren too violate safety norms. This scene is not restricted to any particular school, but is true in case of almost all institutions, and, surprisingly, with the consent of parents.
 
 
