NAGPUR: The   (YUCB) is under scanner after three petitions filed in Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court alleging a massive scam of Rs100 crore. At a time when entire banking sector is reeling under the sense of insecurity following massive fraud of over Rs12,000 crore in Punjab National bank (PNB), the fresh allegations would be a big setback to the thousands of YUCB depositors.

 A division bench comprising justices   and  , on Monday, issued notices to state government through secretaries of home and cooperation departments, asking them to reply within four weeks.
 
 All three pleas are filed by businessman and farmer Vinod Kucchewar when he came to realize that documents submitted by him for a loan were misused by the alleged fraudsters in connivance with the YUCB officials to avail loans and siphon off the bank deposits. In all cases, two at Wani in Yavatmal and one at Deo Nagar in Nagpur, he was made guarantor, without his knowledge. It was only when the fraudsters defaulted on the loans that bank issued notices for recovery to petitioner and he came to know about the scam.
 
 In pleas filed through counsels —   and SS Godbole — Kucchewar cited many instances of how the official documents of customers are allegedly misused by the fraudsters to avail loans from the bank and even their signatures were forged on the documents. He claimed that despite lodging many complaints with the bank officials, they failed to respond. He even approached the YUCB chief executive officer (CEO) to take action against the officials for fraud, but he wasn’t entertained. He also tried to lodge the complaint with Wani Police Station, but they too failed to probe the fraud.
 
 Left with no other alternative, he knocked the judiciary’s doors praying for lodging of FIR against the fraudsters and bank officials named in his complaint to the Wani cops. He demanded directives to the government for thorough investigations into the scam and punishment to the guilty persons.
 
 The petitioner earlier sought documents from the bank regarding recovery notices he had received, which indicated large-scale discrepancies in loans distribution. He was shocked to notice that his crucial documents for a loan, which he repaid totally, was misused in all three cases. In one instance, a car loan of Rs3.67 lakh was availed in his name and a car was also purchased, without his knowledge. He came to know about it after receiving notice from the bank to seize the car in his name for defaulting on loans.
 
 
