CHANDIGARH: City colleges are opposing the proposal of the UT higher education department of initiating centralised admission for BA other post-graduate courses courses for next session 2018-19. UT higher education department is proposing that as the pilot project of having a centralised admission for BBA, BCA, B.Sc (medical and non-medical) and   graduate courses of IT during 2017-18 session was successfully conducted so it should be implemented in all the courses from next academic session. 

 BA and all post-graduate courses of the city colleges have been proposed to be covered under centralised admission. 
 
 Sources said a meeting chaired by director, higher education Rakesh Popli was held in which discussion regarding centralised admission for BA, B.Com and post-graduate courses took place. During meeting, the college representatives raised an issue that it will not be possible for them to have centralised admission as there are large number of options for elective subjects under BA, which are being offered by various colleges of the city.
 
 Colleges, however, agreed that B.Com and all post-graduate courses should be covered under centralised admission from next session. Rakesh Popli said soon a final decision will be taken on the issue by conducting anothe meeting with all colleges. The issue will be reconsidered by the education department of covering BA course under centralised admission.
 
 Principal of Guru   College for  , Sector 26   said the issue is under consideration of the education department and they are hopeful that the decision will be taken after considering the opinion of all representatives of the city colleges.
 
 DAV college, Sector 10, dean admission B   said the main issue which the colleges are facing is that all the colleges have various numbers of options for the BA course in their respective college due to which it becomes difficult for the students to make a choice. 
 
 Colleges like Post graduate government college for girls, Sector 11, Post graduate government college, Sector 11, Post graduate government college for girls, Sector 42, Post graduate government college, Sector 46, Government college for commerce and business admission, Sector 50, GGSD college, Sector 32, DAV college, Sector 10, MCM DAV College, Sector 36, Dev Samaj for Women, Sector 45, GGSC College for Women, Sector 26 and Sri Guru Gobind Singh College, Sector 26.
 
 
