Kolkata: RP-Sanjiv Goenka Group flagship   has split the position of managing director into two with effect from May 28. The board has appointed Debasish Banerjee as   (distribution) and Rabi Chowdhury as MD (generation) of the company each for a period of five years in its meeting held on Wednesday. The duo will replace  , who has put in his papers on Wednesday.

 Banerjee was earlier the CEO of Reliance Energy. Chowdhury is the MD of Haldia Energy, a subsidiary of the CESC. 
 
 Both the new MDs have been appointed by the board as additional directors of the company from the said date. The appointments will be subject to the requisite approvals of the shareholders of the company in the next annual general meeting. 
 
 “On expiry of his term of office as the MD, Aniruddha Basu has tendered his resignation as a director with effect from May 28, 2018. Brij Mohan Khaitan, an independent director, has also tendered his resignation with immediate effect. B M khaitan, the chairman of Williamson Magor Group, was one of the longest serving independent directors of the company. The company is engaged in generation and distribution of electricity and does not operate in any other reportable segment,” it added. 
 
 A top group official pointed out that the MD’s position was divided following the proposed restructuring of the group flagship where generation and distribution businesses will be divided into different companies.
 
 Meanwhile, CESC on Wednesday reported 1% dip in its standalone net profit at Rs 292 crore in the quarter ended on March 31, 2018, compared with Rs 295 crore posted in the year-ago period. The company’s standalone net profit was Rs 295 crore in the quarter ended on March 31, 2017, a BSE filing said. 
 
 The city-based power major’s standalone total income was Rs 1,843 crore in the quarter up from Rs 1,631 crore in the year-ago period, a company statement said. The company’s standalone net profit was Rs 871 crore in 2017-18 up from Rs 863 crore in the previous fiscal. The consolidated net profit was Rs 1,155 crore in 2017-18 up from Rs 810 crore in the previous financial year.
 
 
