NEW DELHI: TDP chief and Andhra Pradesh CM N   will meet PM   on Friday to press for demands related to infrastructure, which are significant in the run-up to state polls that coincide with the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. 

 The meeting comes amid signs of impatience at Naidu’s end, and TDP members feel the outcome will be important in deciding whether a certain distance that has crept into ties with   and the Centre will reduce or grow.
 
 Modi will be meeting Naidu after a long gap. He met TDP MPs on the last day of the winter session of Parliament to discuss demands for AP, as a prelude to the meeting with the CM. TDP ministers have met FM Arun Jaitley regularly to discuss various means of assistance for the state and have argued that the tight political calendar over the next year and a half requires more attention to the reconstruction of AP in the wake of the 2014 bifurcation. Naidu’s key demands include compensation for AP’s revenue deficit for having to give up Hyderabad and special assistance to rebuild the state and raise a new capital in Amaravati.
 
 TDP’s decision to sign up with the opposition in the Rajya Sabha, demanding that the triple talaq bill be sent to a parliamentary panel, saw a divergence with the Centre, though the party has struck a different path on minorityrelated issues in the past.
 
 TDP is in competition with ‘secular’ parties like YSR   and Congress in the state. Earlier, Naidu did not attend the swearing-in of Gujarat CM Vijay Rupani though the gala was meant to be an NDA show of strength. Naidu has been careful not to be seen as anti-government as he seeks central assistance and also does not see any alternative formation in the making but continues to signal that he is batting for AP and wants the Centre to deliver on key demands, said a TDP leader.
 
 In another sign of discontent in the TDP camp, when   MPs raised in Parliament their demand for a separate high court for the state, TDP MP and junior science minister P P Chowdary kept demanding a special package for AP, an unlikely stand to take for a minister.
 
