BHOPAL: It was a hat-trick of sorts for mercury in Bhopal on Saturday with the city's maximum temperature touching a new high of 43 degrees Celsius for the third consecutive day. 

 The city woke up to an unusually warm morning. At the crack of the dawn when weather is generally pleasant in the city of lakes, the mercury had already touched 29 degrees Celsius - 28.8 to be precise, which was 5 degrees Celsius above the normal. Same time on Friday, it was 25 degrees Celsius.
 
  As the morning walkers found they were sweating and exhausting faster, they did not realise the rise in level of mercury. By 8.30 am, the mercury had already touched 34 degrees Celsius - a rise of six degrees Celsius. On Friday, it was 42 degrees Celsius. 
 
 One can imagine the hot weather conditions in Bhopal as the mercury was 40 degrees Celsius at 12 noon, reached 43 at 2.30 pm and was still 41 degrees Celsius after 5 pm.
 
 Mercury has been on an upward wing for past few days with day temperature hitting 39 degrees earlier this week and 43 at the weekend. The city office of   (IMD) said maximum temperature in Bhopal is likely to be around 43 degrees Celsius in the next 24 hours.
 
 "The city may witness partly cloudy sky and may develop thundery conditions in the afternoon," the met office said.
 
 Meanwhile, northern parts of  , districts of   and Vindhya region also continued to experience heatwave conditions.
 
  was the hottest place in Madhya Pradesh where maximum temperature of 45 degrees Celsius was recorded on Saturday. Rajgarh (44) and Shajapur (44.4 degrees Celsius) also experienced blistering heatwave conditions. In Gwalior Bhind, Morena, Guna and Shivpuri also, the mercury hovered around 43 degrees Celsius mark. Some parts of Gwalior Chambal regions and in Nimar region in western Madhya Pradesh, experienced high velocity wind hail and a brief spell of heavy rainfall. A wedding pandal was blown off in Shivpuri in the afternoon. Weatherman attributed these conditions to western disturbances and a trough stretched from Rajasthan to Chhattisgarh.
 
 
