MANALI: A pregnant woman considered dead by her family after she fell from the bed, delivered a baby girl after being revived by the ambulance staff.

 The incident happened in remote Khairwalla village of   district on Thursday afternoon.  , 37, was being carried to a road on bed when she fell on ground and her family members thought she had died. They asked the medical staff of 108 emergency ambulance to return back from midway. When the ambulance reached the spot, the staff found Roshani’s family members preparing for her last rites. However, a technician insisted on checking the woman and found that she had lost her pulse and revived her. The staff then helped her conduct a  .
 
 Khairwalla is not connected by road and residents have to walk for nearly 4 kms to reach the Vikrambagh road. Roshani’s condition was very critical when her family members called up 108 emergency ambulance service to come till the road and they tied the pregnant woman to a bed and carried her on shoulders to take to the road. Midway, Roshani collapsed and lost her pulse. 
 
 “We received an emergency call at 12:07pm from Ranjana. Emergency medical technician (EMT)   and pilot Rakesh Kumar were assigned this case. When they were on the way, Ali made a follow-up call to Ranjana, who asked him to return and said the patient had died. Ali asked her about her exact location and started walking on foot towards them along with the pilot and met them near  ,” said 108 national ambulance service state head Mehul Sukumaran. 
 
 The medical staff found Roshani lying unconscious and with no pulse. “The ambulance was still 1.5km away. So Ali decided to conduct pre hospital care at the scene. He did suctioning and a baby girl was delivered successfully. He then initiated cardiopulmonary resuscitation to the patient and she also revived miraculously,” Mehul added.
 
 Roshani and the baby were then shifted to civil hospital in Nahan. As advised by doctor, Ali then administered suctioning, cleaning, warming and clamp cord to the newborn. Both mother and daughter were later shifted to regional hospital.
 
 Mehul said 108 ambulance has conducted over 9,500 successful deliveries inside ambulance or on the spot during the last seven years. “We have a protocol, that once we get an emergency call, especially in delivery case, our EMTs do not return until they examine the lady even if she has delivered baby before their arrival. This is to make sure that placenta is drained which can cause infection to the mother.”
 
 
