HYDERABAD:A family of three took a car from their native village in Jagtial district to come to Hyderabad to receive the family head, who was returning home from Qatar after more than one-and-half years. But tragedy struck Tekumatla Gangarajam, who ended up attending the funeral of his family members after their car crashed into a stationary lorry at Turkapally on the outskirts of the city in the early hours of Friday.

 
 
  
  
 
 Shamirpet police said the   occurred at around 3.30am owing to recklessness on the part of the driver in leaving the lorry with a flat tyre on the road. The lorry did not even display the customary hazard warning sign. Occupants of the car were driver J Raju (24), two children — Shravan (12) and Shalini (10), who died on the spot, while the children’s mother Sattavva
 
 (35) succumbed to her injuries at Gandhi Hospital. Gangarajam works as a labourer in Qatar.
 
 Inspector D Bhaskar Reddy said: “The lorry driver did not switch on the parking lights and stationed the sandladen lorry near the forest guest house on Rajiv Rahadari. Raju did not notice this and drove the Tata Zest car straight into the killer lorry.”
 
 Around 11pm, the family set out on their journey from Jaina village in Dharmapuri mandal and the crash took place at 3.30am. The impact was such that the car’s front portion was completely mangled. Sattavva and the two children had occupied the rear seats. Motorists passing by the road had alerted the cops soon after the crash. The police had to deploy cranes to separate the mangled remains of the car.
 
 It was around 5am, Gangarajam landed at Rajiv Gandhi International Airport and was received by his distant relatives who shared the heartbreaking news. Gangarajam was inconsolable. Gangarajam was numbed as just before setting out on his journey back home, he had spoken to his wife. As per the plan, Sattavva and the two children would come down to Hyderabad and would meet Sattavva’s brother at Jubilee Bus Station (JBS) from where all of them would head to the airport to receive Gangarajam.
 
 “The lorry driver is on the run. We have launched a manhunt for him. A case under section 304-A (rash and negligent driving) of IPC has been registered,” Bhaskar said.
 
