NEW DELHI: "You ask what we've done?... From our bases you carried out 57,800 attacks on Afghanistan…thousands of our civilians and soldiers became victims of the war initiated by you," said 
  , in a series of emotional tweets that were a response to   accusing his country of "lies and deceit".

 
 Pakistan's foreign minister repeatedly talked of Pakistanis' sacrifices. And directly 
  , said his own version of the US President's "No more!"
 
 "Our forces are fighting an unusual war, there is an unending saga of sacrifices. Now, history teaches us not to blindly trust the US. We are feeling sorry they are not happy, but we will not compromise on our dignity anymore," said Asif.
 
 Asif began his series of tweets by taking a shot at former dictator Pervez Musharraf, the man in charge of   when the 9/11 terror attacks occurred in New York.
 
 "A ruler surrendered in a single phone call, our country, we went through the worst bloodbath," said Asif, about the military dictator Musharraf. 
 
 Asif implied that if anyone was a fool it was Pakistan for getting involved in the US's war. He was talking about Trump saying in his first tweet of 2018 that Islamabad plays Americans for fools.
 
 "The United States has foolishly given Pakistan more than 33 billion dollars in aid over the last 15 years, and they have given us nothing but lies & deceit, thinking of our leaders as fools. They give safe haven to the terrorists we hunt in Afghanistan, with little help. No more!," tweeted Trump, bright and early on January 1, 2018.
 
 Trump's blistering words didn't go down well with anyone in Pakistan. Asif, in fact, responded almost immediately to  , also on Twitter. 
 
 "Will let the world know the truth…(the) difference between facts & fiction," said Asif on Monday.
 
 Then, a day and half later, he expanded on what he believes is the truth.
 
 "We stood by you, considered your enemy our own. We filled Guantanamo Bay," said Asif, talking about the detention camp which was opened on January 11, 2002. 
 
 Pakistan's foreign minister is referring to his country's cooperation in helping the US find terrorists and war criminals and dispatching them to the prison established by then US President George W. Bush's administration during its ' ', an international military campaign to hunt down "a radical network of terrorists and every government that supports them."
 
 As per a February 2017 report in The New York Times, Afghans were the largest group (29 percent) in Guantanamo, followed by Saudi Arabians (17 percent), Yemenis (15 percent) and Pakistanis (9 percent).
 
  
  
 Asif said not only did Pakistan find terrorists for the US, it also opened itself up for operatives of the now disgraced Blackwater, a firm of private military contractors.
 
 "We issued tens of thousands of visas as a result of which the networks of Black Water spread across our country. And for the past four years, we have been cleaning up (their) rubbish," said Asif.
 
 
 
 
