Mohali: A cricket aficionado to the core and a massive Virender   fan, Om Prakash Joshi remembers several important statistics related to the Nawab of Najafgarh’s international batting performances. So whether it is the triple hundred in Multan against Pakistan or the 195 versus Australia in Melbourne, Joshi can tell you the most intrinsic detail about those knocks.

 But what is so unique and special about Joshi relating these stats. The man is 93 years old and despite his age, Joshi can recall several tidbits related to Indian cricket without any error. The nonagenarian is also a fan of Kings XI Punjab and has come all the way from Patiala to Chandigarh to watch KXIP take on Sunrisers Hyderabad on Thursday.
 
 The mad rush for tickets meant Joshi couldn’t get hold of one; but when Sehwag came to know about his oldest fan, he immediately called Joshi in.
 
 Sehwag chatted with the 93-year-old for a considerable length of time; he offered him tea and biscuits, made him meet several players from Kings XI Punjab, and finally gave him and his family tickets for the match against Sunrisers.
 
 “I felt extremely touched on meeting Om Prakash ji,” Sehwag said. “At this age, he has come all the way from Patiala to Mohali; this shows what a massive cricket fan he is,” he said. 
 
 Sehwag also praised Joshi’s ability to recollect so many stats related to Indian cricket. “Hats off to him, it’s truly incredible,” he said.
 
 The Delhi Dasher showed Joshi how the Kings XI team and its individual players practice before a match.
 
 “It was really satisfying to meet Sehwag and the players of Kings XI Punjab. They were all very courteous and respectful towards me,” Joshi said.
 
 So how does he know so many facts related to Indian and Punjab cricket?
 
 “Cricket is my passion. I not only love watching the game on TV, but also read a lot. All my knowledge related to the sport has come by reading; and, that includes reading different newspapers, sports section and specifically cricket-related magazines,” Joshi replied. “As far as my memory is concerned, it is a God’s gift. Besides, I have maintained a healthy lifestyle, eating habits and that helps me in remaining physically as well as mentally strong.”
 
 Joshi, in the end, narrated an Urdu poem that he learnt in 1933 when he was an 8 or 9 years old. That too was recited verbatim and without any flaw, drawing applause from many onlookers and obviously Sehwag.
 
 Both Kings XI Punjab and Sehwag tweeted from their handles about the interaction with Joshi. The former India opener also posted a selfie with him. Besides acknowledging the adulation he got from Joshi, Sehwag wrote from his Twitter account: “Dada ko Pranam”.
 
 
