NEW DELHI: Hafiz Saeed led Lashkar-e-Taiba's (LeT) student wing – Al Muhammadia Students (AMS) has developed a mobile handset meant exclusively for communication by LeT members with each other. After entering a particular chip, the handset automatically connects with the nearest mobile tower, irrespective of the telecom service provider, and calls made using this handset cannot be traced by Indian intelligence agencies. If at all, intelligence agencies try to intercept the device, the call will automatically terminate.

 These and other chilling revelations have been made by 20-year-old Multan based trained LeT terrorist –   alias Hamza during his interrogation with the National Investigation Agency. Zaibullah was caught from a house in Jugdiyal area in Kupwara on April 7.
 
 Son of an Income Tax officer from Pakistan, Zaibullah has further claimed that Lashkar-e-Taiba, a global terror outfit, recruited and trained 450 boys in 2017 from different areas of Pakistan for anti-India operations, out of which selected ones were sent for further rigorous arms training to other camps. Boys aged 15 to 25 years are being recruited they are being radicalised in the name of ' ' by LeT.
 
 Lashkar and its parent organisation Jamaat-ud-Dawa (JuD) also run an "underground" training camp in Maskar Khaibar area in Muzaffarabad forest area in PoK "exclusively for the training the fidayeens (suicide squad)", Zaibullah claims in his interrogation, details of which have been exclusively accessed by TOI.
 
 
  
  
 
 In all, the group has seven camps named - Tabuk in Mansera (meant for basic physical training), Aksa Maskar in Muzaffarabad (for weapons training, GPS, surviving etc), KFC or Karachi Food Centre (meant for supply of ration to launch pads), Dakhan in Muzaffarabad (for mountain climbing training), Daura Bait-ul-Rizwan in Muridke (for combat and climbing), Khalid bin Valeed in Muzaffarabad main city (called Headquarters of JuD/LeT training centres as all equipments, arms, ammunition, ration, clothing, vehicles and raw material is supplied from here to all training centres and launch pads in Pak and PoK) and Maskar Khaibar (underground training camp for suicide terrorists only).
 
 The information about the exclusive mobile handset of LeT and its camps has been shared with central intelligence agencies and they are gathering more details about the same.
 
  
  
 
 The questioning of Zaibullah, who was highly motivated and volunteered to go for arms training, suggests that LeT as 30 to 40 cadres ready in its launch pads at any given time for crossing over to India.
 
 He himself had crossed over to India on March 2/3 this year along with five others – Wakas (commander of the group, resident of Lahore), Shuram (Bahawalpur), Fadaullah (Lahore), Umer (Sind) and Kari (Dhir, Pakistan) via Dudhniyal and then Tezia in PoK. All five in his group were killed during an encounter with   on March 20.
 
 Even though a bullet hit him in the hand during the encounter on March 20, Zaibullah had managed to escape that day and was caught 15 days later.
 
 When Zaibullah was undergoing training in Dakhan in January 2017, LeT's operational commander and 26/11 accused   had stayed with the trainees for two months. Zaibullah says that Lakhvi motivated them for fight for Jehad and even hugged all of them including him. Then, during his training at another camp in Muzaffarabad, LeT chief Hafiz Saeed also visited them and did the same.
 
 His father reportedly encouraged his Jehadi activities and even donated Rs 1,000 per month in the "Jehad fund". 
 
 
