 Village (Namkum): In the 24 hours since the   found the battered bodies of 50-year-old Lohar Singh Munda and his 45-year-old wife Keyari Devi, all the men folk have left Sukridih village under Huanghatu Panchayat of   to avoid police  . The couple was killed on May 2 after some villagers accused them of practising   and causing the death of a toddler.

 The village, just about 30km from the state capital, has just 30 families, and 11 individuals among them have been accused in the case. 
 
 Even as the administration deployed a 30-member team of Special Armed Police (SAP) and Jharkhand police at the village to apprehend the accused,   chairperson   visited the hamlet to interact with locals. 
 
 The women look visibly indifferent as the interpreter tries to coax facts out of them. But, one can see the fear in their eyes. They know that they will have to spend another night alone amid heavy police deployment..
 
 Beena Devi, mukhiya of Huanghatu Panchayat who met Sharan on Friday, said she was informed of the dual murders only after police found the bodies on Thursday. “The villagers accused the couple of practising witchcraft when a three-year-old fell ill and died in the village,” she said. 
 
 Hindu Munda, whose son died after suddenly falling ill, is among the prime suspects in the case. Villagers said the child was running a high fever and had been vomiting ever since he was treated by Lohar Singh Munda. “The child’s mother is also sick. The entire family fell ill one by one before our eyes,” said Sangeeta (name changed), a mother of two. Her brother-in-law is one of the accused, but she refuses to answer where he was on the night of the incident.
 
 “Lohar Singh Munda was treating the three-year-old who fell sick and died. On May 2, the village men dragged him and his wife out of their homes and beat them to death accusing them of using  ,” said RSP Bhushan, officer in-charge of Namkum police station. He added, “Their sons, Munna Munda (30) and Etwa Munda (28) were threatened with similar consequences if the incident was reported to police. Munna finally filed an FIR and the bodies were recovered from  , a kilometre south of the village.”
 
 Brooms and broken pots lie on a 50-metre stretch en route Sukridih. Used as a part of ‘witchcraft’ rituals, their presence verifies the existence of superstitious practice in the villages nearby. The children hang around, clueless of the happenings. “The nearby schools are closed. Only one kid goes to the school across the main road,” added another woman. 
 
 “This is a sad scheme of things and two lives were claimed simply because they were suspected of practising black magic. The women here have no idea that they too could be the next victim. The couple who was killed were fairly prosperous than the other villagers, and that is exactly what led to their  ,” Sharan said. She added, “Strict action needs to be taken against the accused, but most importantly, we need to sit down and communicate with the villagers to educate them about the threat these witch-hunting murders are to the society.”
 
 Village elder Seeta Munda (name changed) said women are not allowed to participate in any witchcraft-related “hearing” that takes place in the village. “The decision was taken by the men when the women were busy in a rituals to pray for the dead toddler,” she said.
 
 Though they did not play any role in the murders, the struggles are real for the women in Sukridih. “We have not sleep since the bodies were found. We have never seen so many outsiders in the village. They keep knocking at our doors, asking questions. I haven’t even cooked a meal yet. We were not even there and have no idea what happened,” said the octogenarian.
 
 
