CHANDIGARH: The continuing debate over governance reforms has whipped up another storm at Panjab University. A day after   Teachers' Association ( ) president   issued a statement that the body was kept in the dark regarding the involvement of the earlier PUTAs in preparing the affidavit submitted to the high court, the proceedings of a syndicate meeting held in October, 2015, have become the latest talking point within the varsity. 

 The proceedings find mention of the current PUTA president Gill where she has given her opinion on the reforms suggested by Prof  .
 
 When asked about the controversy, Gill said, "The present PUTA should have been taken into confidence before filing the affidavit in the high court. Why are all these justifications being prepared post facto? The present PUTA was never taken into confidence. The people talking about governance reforms are those who have taken, enjoyed all the benefits from the authorities. And it is they who have manipulated the post of deans. They have no right to talk about reforms."
 
 "Professor Gill herself agreed that the provisions of the Act were obsolete and required structural changes. But she was not very comfortable with the argument that since this letter had been written on PUTA's letterhead, it was the voice of the teaching community. She enquired on which forum the PUTA had discussed this issue. She said about 10 days ago, a general body meeting of PUTA was held, but the issue was not discussed," read the proceedings of the syndicate meeting of October 18, 2015.
 
 These proceedings were posted on Whatsapp groups of the university teachers and governing body members.
 
 Gill in a statement issued on May 1 had alleged that the very fact the current PUTA is being kept aside while deliberating upon the issue and that the governing bodies have been completely excluded from the discussion, makes us wonder as to whether our authorities are actually serious about upgrading the so-called governance reforms.
 
 
