BHOPAL: Drama ‘Code Red’ had to be stopped twice because of power failure at Bharat Bhavan on Thursday.

 
 The dance-drama, directed by Indudipa   from Kolkata, witnessed power failure that took away the flow and magic of the enactment. The director, who was clueless about the fault, apologized to the audience before resuming the dance-drama but the electricity failed her once again.
 
 
 
 
 Members of the audience, who were glued to their seats, lost interest as the lights went off for a few minutes before the play could be resumed.
 
 
 Ananata Chaterjee, retired teacher who went to watch the play with her family said, “When there was a power cut suddenly, the flow was disturbed as we were all in a different mood. But the artistes picked it up when the lights were on again. The quality of the play was excellent and it was innovative. The synchronization and body movement and presentation was good.”
 
 
 The psychological drama about women who are raped during the times of war was inspired from Tagore’s poem ‘The Child’ and French drama ‘Body of a Woman.’  , a social worker said, “I was in a state of trance watching the play. It showed that women always become victims during war. It was unfortunate that there was power failure twice as it did spoil the mood but the artistes resumed and built the same atmosphere again.”
 
 
 The story of ‘Maati’ the women who was gang raped during war was showcased by Sinha through a dance-drama. The conversation between the psychiatrist and   highlight the feeling of negativity and hate that the woman has towards the baby because it was not conceived out of love. “Motherhood is considered to be the biggest boon for a woman, but what is the woman has been brutally raped and does not even know who the father of the child is? The difference lies in the feeling,” said Sinha.
 
 
 When the psychiatrist finds her lying among the dead bodies, he sees in her a ray of hope — of creation and genesis but Maati has no feelings for the child.
 
 
 The psychiatrist then counsels her and makes her see light, asking for her permission to raise the child as his own along with her. It is then that Maati realizes that being a woman, she was creating a new life and changes her mind. The hand-painted backdrop by Triguna Shankar, the set designer for the drama and the cut-outs showcasing the plight of women kept outside the auditorium became a major attraction of day nine. People stopped by to click selfies near the mannequins set up by the director.
 
 
 Lighting in-charge Kamal Jain said it was not a power failure, but a changeover for a split of a second that did not have any effect on the play.
 
