Stage lights are crucial for theatrical performances, ask any artist and they will tell you. However, Prague's The HILT Black Light Theatre group proved this age-old notion wrong when they gave a flawless performance on a pitch dark stage at the Slovakian embassy on Saturday.
 
  
  Masked
 
 
 Prague is a recognised centre for black light theatre. The group, however, brought modern influences to the long-established art form and used UV lighting and other techniques. The show, called 'Phantom', showed different acts of a phantom. It also depicted different stages of love.
 
 Talking about the performance, Theoidekar Hoeidkar, director of the show, said, "We have used projections to make it look more interesting. We tried to show different emotions like love, hatred, anger in our performance. We have been performing Phantom for about ten years and it is our best act."
 
  
  Artists depict a phantom’s love story
 
 
 Vijay Jolly, BJP leader, who was present at the event, said, "It was a superb performance and more than that, it was a great way to connect India to the   and Slovakia. These performances not only renew the bond of friendship but also promote cultures of the two countries."
 
 Milan Hovorka, ambassador, Czech Republic, added, "We wanted to send the message of friendship and we wanted to get this message across Slovakia. That’s why we organised this event together. Through today’s performance, we also wanted to develop friendly relations with India. This isn’t the only performance that the group will give in India.They will also perform at the   as part of the Eighth Theatre Olympics that are being held in India."
 
  
  Tomasz Kozlowski, Ambassador of the European Union and Vijay Jolly, BJP leader 
 
  
  Demetrios A Theophylactou, High Commissioner of   and Milan Hovorka, Ambassador of the Czech Republic
 
  
  Radu Octavian Dobre, Ambassador of   (left) and Chung-Kwang Tien, Ambassador of  
 
  
  Milan Hovorka, Ambassador of the Czech Republic
 
  
  Žigmund Bertók, Ambassador of the  
 
  
  
 - Vibha.Maru@timesgroup.com
 
