CHARMINAR: The fabled  , built by Princess  , daughter of Sultan Mohammed Qutub Shah, is dying a slow death because no efforts are being made for its restoration or conservation.

 Built between 1612 and 1626 AD, the Jama Masjid, which is popularly known as Kulsum Begum’s mosque at Karwan, paints a sad picture with no visible effort made to attract visitors and many passing by without even knowing its value.
 
  
  
 
 While the minarets of the tomb are covered with overgrown vegetation, which could be the reason for huge cracks developing on the exteriors of the mosque, the impressive stuccowork can also be seen peeling off at many places on the structure.
 
 Heritage activists say the tomb has been lying in this condition for years, though it is a protected architectural monument. “I visited the mosque recently and saw that it was in a neglected state. There is so much vegetation, not just on the minarets but in the surrounding area of the mosque too,” says P  , co-convener of Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage (INTACH).
 
 The 400-year-old architectural grandeur holds a significant position in the history of the region.
 
 According to the masjid committee members, the mosque was built by Kulsum Begum with the Mehr (money or gift given as a mark of respect to the wife at the time of marriage) she received from her husband in consideration of the marriage.
 
 Mohammed Omer Ali Waseem, the masjid committee’s executive member, said they had been writing to the state archaeology department since 2014 asking them to restore the mosque, but to no avail.
 
 The managing committee received a letter from the director of the archaeology department, N R Visalatchy, only in 2017 stating that a conservation architect had visited the site and prepared an estimate of Rs 42 lakh, but they could not be take up the work in 2014-15 due to lack of funds.
 
 Addressing the same letter to the secretary of government,   youth advancement tourism & culture department, the director requested to sanction the funds to commence repair work immediately.
 
 Visalatchy said, “We are yet to receive funds. We will take up repair works as soon as the budget is sanctioned.”
 
