NAGPUR: The Centre of Excellence in Sickle Cell, which will come up at the   (GMCH), would be getting state-of-the-art technology in   (BMT) from one of the world’s best   expert. 

 The expert, Dr  , director Bone Marrow Transplant (BMT),  , Atlanta, Georgia in USA, was in the city on Thursday at GMCH. He told TOI that the political will behind the setting of the centre in Nagpur was appreciable. He is also representing the Mehta Foundation from USA which is supporting the project financially.
 
 Dr Krishnamurti says the results of BMT, both in terms of survival rate and cure rate, are better in younger patients. Hence, it is always better to treat a Sickle Cell Disease (SCD) patient at an early (preferably between 5 and 16 years) age. “New born screening plays a most important role in controlling SCD. If the disease is picked early and transplant done early, the results are fantastic. The cure rate in patients under the age of five is as high as 96%,” he said.
 
 Though the first preference for BMT is given to a matched sibling donor, Dr Krishnamurti said that BMT can also be done in half matched donors. Parents are the half-matched donors. Research in clinical trials stage has also given good results through gene therapy. Experiments are also on in using gene correction and gene editing technology to correct the disease. There are newer drugs which can prevent the graft versus host disease. “In another few years, there will be ample options to treat SCD patients,” he said.
 
 Of the total SCD children globally, 25 per cent (44,000) are born in India. The country needs the best possible treatment modalities for SCD. “Earlier people would live with the disease and think of BMT only when they couldn’t tolerate the associated problems. Now parents of children with SCD don’t want them to suffer from the pain and the agony that comes with the disease. Treating the patient with BMT at an early age is the best option for managing SCD patients,” said Dr Krishnamurti.
 
 Dr Dipty Jain from the  , an SCD expert and head of paediatrics at the college, discussed the BMP technology with Dr Krishnamurti.
 
 
