HYDERABAD: The Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) exposed undue benefits given by Telangana State Industrial Infrastructure Corporation (TSIIC) and erstwhile   (APIIC) to firms like Brahmani Infratech Limited, JT Holdings and  . 

 CAG said no penalties were imposed on BIPL when it returned land without fulfilling obligations as per agreement. CAG noted there was an undue benefit of 13.75 crore made to BIPL thus causing loss to APIIC. "APIIC issued a notice on January 30, 2009, to BIPL for not showing interest in the project. Within two days of the notice, APIIC transferred the title deeds of 150 acres to BIPL, reasons for which were not on record. This was in contravention of sale agreement," stated CAG. 
 
 In 2017, the state government replied the title deed was transferred to facilitate financing from lenders and address concerns of firm's clients. CAG said the reply was not acceptable as there was no provision for such facilitation in the agreement. According to rules, cancellation of the deal had to be done and penalties imposed in case of failure by BIPL to fulfil its obligations. However, APIIC allowed BIPL to surrender land without doing so.
 
 "During cancellation, as against 14 crore of deductible amount as per terms of agreement of sale, APIIC deducted only 25 lakh ignoring other deductions and refunded 49.75 crore in January 2013. This resulted in an undue benefit of 13.75 crore to BIPL and loss to APIIC." 
 
 Regarding JT Holdings, 70 acre was transferred without completion of the project against norms. Clause 8 of the sale agreement stipulated that land would be transferred to the firm only on completion of project by the firm. However, title of the land was transferred to the firm by executing a sale deed in May 2009 even before completion of the project. As a result, the department could not enforce compliance criteria by the firm after transfer of title deed, the CAG report said.
 
 Another firm, Honeywell Technologies, was asked to surrender land by the state government. "APIIC/TSIIC erred in submitting utilisation certificates for funds," the report said. CAG also found fault with Fab City, E-city and hardware cluster development project where land was allotted, but the projects didn't come up. Of 1075 acre earmarked for Fab City, 712 acres remained unutilised, it said.
 
 
