NAGPUR: The state-level expert committee on Tuesday unanimously decided not to release the problem tiger of   in   division into the wild again.

 The five-year-old problem tiger had been dramatically tranquillized and captured from the outskirts of Sitasawangi village in Tumsar forest range on December 23. It was later shifted to Gorewada.
 
 A committee was constituted on December 28 by additional principal chief conservator of forests (PCCF) for wildlife N Rambabu. On Tuesday, the seven-member committee, including Nagpur chief conservator of forest ( ) Sanjeev Gaur, ex-associate dean of  , veteran wildlife vet Dr AD Kholkute, Satpuda Foundation chief Kishor Rithe, retired DFO GK Vashishtha, honorary wildlife warden Kundan Hate, and Shahid Parvez Khan of Save Ecosystem & Tiger (SEAT), Bhandara, met to discuss the issue.
 
 Talking to TOI, officials and members at the meeting said after going through the reports and documents it was decided not to re-release the tiger. “During its 10-day presence in Tumsar and Nakadongri ranges of Bhandara, the carnivore displayed typical behaviour by coming close to human settlements despite good forest cover there. Another issue was that the tiger targeted small and domestic animals near villages,” said members.
 
 Instead of avoiding humans, the tiger had entered a marriage party and house warming function at Masulkhapa village in   bordering Maharashtra, before entering Bhandara division on December 10.
 
 In Bhandara division, it gave sleepless nights to officials and residents of 12 villages by coming close to the village. It also entered Sitasawangi village amid full public view, and was captured from thickets near the village.
 
 Even at Gorewada rescue centre, the tiger’s overall behaviour is sluggish. Even if you go close it doesn’t try to hide or roar. “It was not a fit case for release. Any attack on humans post its release would cause trouble for tigers in general. A report in this regard will be sent to the principal chief conservator of forests (PCCF) AK Misra soon,” said a senior official.
 
 
