Amaravati: Union finance minister Arun   left the   in the   of Andhra Pradesh to decide on what format it has wanted support from the Centre to compensate the revenue deficit and also receive funds in the form of package that was promised to the state.

 Addressing a news conference in Delhi, Jaitley reiterated that the Centre is committed to extend financial benefits to the state and compensate the loss incurred by it due to bifurcation. The promise was to fill the revenue deficit and grant special category status to the state. Out of the two commitments, the Centre has taken up two models to calculate the revenue deficit and paid around Rs 4,000 crore to the state. The Centre has taken the expenditure of 2013-14 and extended the same calculations to the remaining 10 months of the 2014-15 after the bifurcation, which amounted to Rs 4,138 crore and of this, Rs 4,000 crore has been paid. 
 
 The finance minister also said that the Central government was committed to extend the financial assistance to the state as promised under the special package as special category status was not granted to any state following the recommendations of the 14th Finance Commission. He added that the state government had first asked for the funds in 90:10 ratio under the external aided projects (EAP) through external agencies. But, later on in January this year, the state asked the Centre to give these funds through the NABARD. 
 
 “We are ready to give the funds in the 90:10 ratio to the state and have asked the state to create a special purpose vehicle (SPV) to route these funds. The state government has to create an SPV and also choose whether it wanted the funds through the EAP or NABARD,” the finance minister said.
 
 Asked about the incentives for industries, Jaitley said that those incentives were already announced in the 2014-15 and 2015-16 budgets, which would have to be followed up and received by the state. On Polavaram project, Jaitley said that the Central government has already paid around Rs 5,000 crore and the balance would be released as per the progress of the work. “The state must have done a great job and greater portion of the work must have been completed by now. Same is the case with the new capital as we have already given Rs 2,500 crore,” the finance minister said.
 
 Stating that finance cannot be decided basing on politics or sentiments, the Union Finance Minister wanted the   government to come up with clear strategy to receive the financial support from the Centre for the industrial tax incentives, revenue deficit and the 90:10 ratio funds. It was for the AP government to come forward with clear policy or methodology to receive the benefits.
 
 
