PANAJI: The state’s farming community, which has been on the decline in recent years, has reason to rejoice. Innovating with space, the practice of community farming, wherein multiple members of the farming community join hands to cultivate land together, will soon get a boost. 

 For starters, the government will initiate community farming at agricultural land in  . 
 
 A new paddy variety, Goa Dhan-1, by   based   is expected to be grown in the saline areas of this land while the regular paddy varieties, Jaya and Jyoti, will be cultivated in the non-saline areas.
 
 “There are well-intentioned people who want to do something for their land and village and they are slowly returning to farming. In St Estevam, the community farming model will be implemented this Kahrif season. Farmers are targeting 50-60 hectares of land for cultivation. The result of their hard work will be visible in October. Based on this learning experience, next year we will work to improve on the initiative,” said agriculture director,  .
 
 People who want to cultivate in a group will be able to do so in two ways. Members can either cultivate the fields and market the output as one unit or they can use some common infrastructure such as fencing, but produce and market the output separately. 
 
 In the first case, members will themselves plough the fields, transplant the crop, harvest it and marketing it. In the second case, members only create common infrastructure thus saving themselves the hassle of multiple machinery and creating obstruction in or around their fields. In this model, however, farmers have the option of cultivating, harvesting and marketing the produce individually.
 
 Sources from the directorate of agriculture have said that the file has already been sent to the government and that approvals are expected to come through.
 
 “We have done the ground work for the preparation of this scheme and only its formal implementation is in the pipeline,” an agriculture official said. “Land at St Estevam is already being prepared for ploughing. We have tied up with some agencies. They will be undertaking the task of mechanized transplanting.”
 
 “Community farming is a wonderful initiative, especially for owners of fallow land who have lost track of the boundaries of their particular stretch of land. At St Estevam, some of the land had not been cultivated for about 25 years or more. Community farming will also help revive such land.” Figueiredo said.
 
 
