Understandably, there is a certain reluctance with which Ajay Balachandran describes that dreadful night of 2008 that changed his life forever. Then a mechanical engineering student, Ajay was returning home from Bengaluru after his second semester. The train had reached somewhere near Salem at around 3 am when he went to the toilet. A small group pounced on him and when he realised they were after his wallet, he resisted but was thrown off the train onto the tracks. “I don’t remember much after this till I came to my senses in a hospital nearby,” says Ajay, who was taken later to a bigger hospital in Coimbatore by his parents.

 He spent a month and a half in this hospital as part of the treatment for his injuries to his third and fourth vertebrae. His body was motionless below the neck and, needless to say, the karate student and his parents were clueless on what to do with his life.
 When did he finally accept the fact that his condition was irreversible? “The doctors told us so but I never accepted it, not even now,” says Ajay, who has tried ayurveda, reiki, pranic healing and magnetic therapy. “Someone will suggest something new and then we will go after it. Isn’t it a more positive attitude to try for a cure rather than accept defeat?” he asks. He admits that many of these therapies did not give him much other than false hope but he says the process of trying them out enabled him with tips to face life head on. “My dad too never lost hope, always ready to try any new treatment,” he says. A year ago, his father succumbed to hepatitis.
 
 In the beginning, Ajay was so devastated that he did not want anyone to call on him, not even his near and dear ones. “But then, realisation dawned that it was not the best way to deal with reality,” he says. “Today, I don’t regret what happened to me. In fact, I don’t think about it much. There is a positive side to all this in that I developed an understanding about what happens when everyone leaves you, when there is nothing much left in your life. It will happen to everyone one day, maybe a little later. I realised that life was going too fast earlier and I did not even know what was happening around me when I was going with the flow.”
 
 A year after the accident, though he had no control over his hands, he started using a laptop with a pen wrapped in cloth that he held with his mouth. After working on the computer for a year in this fashion, he found that Windows 7 had a speech recognition software that allowed him to use voice commands to create and process data. There was no stopping him after this and he went on to develop his own website called Madhuvanamm and a blog, featuring his 50 poems and other jottings.
 
 
 
