Anindita.Acharya@timesgroup.com

 Chandigarh: When Anil Kumar started playing euphonium as a teenager in Saharanpur,  , he was just carrying on a family tradition like his father in Delhi and his brothers in Ludhiana, Panipat, and Ambala. But at 32, this member of the Sector 23-C Krishna Band of Chandigarh doesn’t want his sons to grow up and play at the weddings.
 
 The   have an erratic work schedule, he says. “I want my children to be educated and work in offices,” he said with a gleam in his eyes. Dressed in a flashy red and golden velvet uniform, Anil’s band of seven is sitting outside the Sector-23 community centre on a sultry afternoon, waiting for a signal from the groom’s family to play.
 
 Anil came to Chandigarh four years ago. “Looking for a job in  , I came across Krishna Band on the internet,” he says, busy tuning his large, valved, wind instrument of brass. Fellow bandwallah Devinder (29), who lives with his three children, wife, and sister in Zirakpur, echoes his sentiments. “I also don’t want my two sons to play in a baraat (wedding procession),” he said.
 
 Band, baaja, baraat
 
 A north Indian wedding is incomplete without a wedding band. Both Anil and Devinder are contractual employees of Krishna Band company. Formed in 1968 by Rattan Lal, this brass band had nearly 50 members once upon a time. Today, Lal’s grandson, Sanjay Sihaan, runs the company with 15 musicians, all from Saharanpur. The eldest member of the band, Jal Singh (60), plays the clarinet and rues the lack of interest in the younger generation for learning the instrument. “It’s not an easy task,” he said.
 
 Sihaan said: “LED bulbs have replaced the gas lamps and tube-lights of a marriage procession. Today, the groom’s family wants the band-wallahs to wear Indo-western uniform and sherwanis with harem pants. Pagdis and caps, too, are available in a variety of designs. The size of the band can increase, if the customer wants.”
 
 In earlier days, he said, musicians from Haryana and Punjab used to come to Chandigarh to play at the weddings, while now the city has to rely on manpower from Uttar Pradesh. “Most of these musicians carry on a centuries-old tradition of their families,” he said. “Apart from weddings, they also play during shobha yatras, Dussehra, and Ram Baraat.”
 
 Beats DJ
 
 The bandwallahs said the advent of DJs (disc jockeys) has affected their business in some parts of Haryana, but in Punjab and Chandigarh, the practice of hiring a wedding band remained alive.
 
 In the peak wedding season, the members camp in a Sector 25 space provided by the band owner. They arrive from Saharanpur in July. Panjab University second-year BA student Vijay Singh, who runs his family’s Milan Band of Sector 23-C, said a few members were even from Ludhiana and other places in Punjab.
 
 Most of the bandwallahs searching for work come to Sector 23-C, which has a row of wedding band shops. Most of these businesses also give away ghodi (groom’s mare) on rent along with chhattar (canopy), victoria carriage, palki (palanquin), and lights. After the bandwallahs sign a yearly contract with the company, they’ll practice hard for the next two months to perfect their pitch. “Since we can’t practice in a market or a residential area, we must go to the outskirts to prepare our tunes,” said Ravi, band master of Krishna Band.
 
 Thanks to  
 
 In 1977, Shatrughan Sinha appeared in ‘Aadmi Sadak Ka’, a forgettable film with an evergreen wedding song, ‘Aaj Mere Yaar Ki Shaadi Hai’, recorded in Mohammed Rafi’s golden voice and favourite since of every best man of the groom. A north Indian wedding must have an extensive Bollywood playlist. “The groom’s family prefers dancing to Punjabi songs as well, but nothing can beat Bollywood,” said a bandwallah. Rafi’s super-hit song ‘Baharon Phool Barsao’ is a must play during groom’s arrival at the bride’s door or during bride’s entry at the reception. Ravi and his team make sure they practice the must-have songs before the wedding season. “’Babul Ki Duayen Leti Ja’ remains the quintessential favourite bidaai (bride’s send-off) song,” he said.
 
 No jangle of coins
 
 Wedding is a seasonal business and most of the wedding bands return to their villages when bookings go rare. While an experienced musicians can make up to Rs 1 lakh a year, a new member can hope to pocket only Rs 40,000, which most bandwallahs say is not enough to support the family. So, the young members do odd jobs for extra income when they are not playing with the band. “We get between Rs 500 and Rs 800 for playing at a wedding,” said a bandwallah, who works as a daily-wage labourer in the off season. Then there is Akash Kumar, 22, trumpet player for five years, who is part-time mechanic, too. Some bandwallahs also return to farming.
 
 Sound of music
 
 Main instruments of wedding bands
 
 Euphonium
 
 Trumpet
 
 Clarinet
 
 Drums
 
 Cornet
 
 Where’s the party tonight
 
 The must-play wedding songs of north India
 
 Aaj Mere Yaar Ki Shaadi Hai
 
 Main Nikla Gaddi Leke
 
 Baharon Phool Barsao
 
 Dulhe Ka Sehra Suhana
 
 Mehandi Laga Ke Rakhna
 
 Le Jayenge, Le Jayenge
 
 Babul Ki Duayen Leti Ja
 
 Chand Si Mehbooba Ho Meri
 
 
