BENGALURU: A thoroughly miffed H D Kumaraswamy, state president of the JD(S), dropped broad hints that his party could join hands with the BJP to oust the ruling Congress in the event of a hung assembly. The former chief minister’s comments came after two Congress MLAs — including a senior minister — were allowed to vote for a second time after they committed technical errors in their first ballot papers during the   elections at the   in Bengaluru on Friday.

 The outburst also followed constant sniping from the Congress over the last few weeks in the run up to assembly elections. Earlier this week, AICC chief Rahul Gandhi and senior Congress leaders had claimed the JD(S) was the ‘B’ team of the BJP and chief minister   had earlier ruffled JD(S) feathers by snubbing the party’s request to support the JD(S) candidate in the Rajya Sabha election.
 
 Kumaraswamy reminded the Congress that he and his party cannot be considered non-entities in Karnataka politics. “I warn chief minister Siddaramaiah and the Congress that if I stand beside the BJP and cough, the Congress party will be vanquished in Karnataka politics,” Kumaraswamy said amid high drama at the Rajya Sabha elections.
 
 The JD(S) is being seen as a likely ‘king maker’ in the event of a hung assembly, and Kumaraswamy is walking a tight rope in keeping his options open of an alliance with either the Congress or BJP.
 
 Kumaraswamy and the JD(S) had approached the Congress with an offer of support post assembly elections in return for Congress votes for their Rajya Sabha candidate BM Farook. The party had cited examples of the JD(S) not fielding a candidate in the Gundlupet and Nanjangud assembly bypolls in 2017 and its continuing alliance in the BBMP council since 2015.
 
 Kumaraswamy told TOI recently: “The Congress party can have a working relationship with the JD(S) and a post-poll alliance after the 2018 elections in case of a hung assembly. However, if they field a third candidate they may very well win a Rajya Sabha seat, but lose the state.”
 
 Hitting back at Rahul’s jibe that they are the ‘B’ team of the BJP, Kumaraswamy said on Friday: “Let the Congress remember, the current Karnataka government is the ‘B’ team of JD(S). All those who did not survive here (at the JDS) jumped to the Congress.”
 
 The JD(S) had run a coalition government with the Congress from 2004, but dumped the party to join hands with the BJP in 2006 on a ‘20:20’ power sharing agreement. The JD(S) ruled for 20 months, but when it came to the BJP’s turn to take the helm for the remaining 20 months, Kumaraswamy refused to cede authority. President’s rule was imposed until polls were held in May 2008.
 
 
