CHANDIGARH: Punjab and Haryana high court issued a notice to  , DGP of Chandigarh Police and Chandigarh administration in a case of Rs 21 crore   allegedly committed by a Chandigarh-based firm on Thursday.

 A CBI probe has been demanded in the case on the grounds that one year on, Chandigarh police failed to conduct concrete investigations. The case will now come up for hearing on May 7.
 
 As per the petition, Arvind Ashat, managing director of   overseas Consultants, cheated 373 people of Rs 21 crore on the pretext of sending them abroad. The petition says one year has passed but Chandigarh Police have not conducted effective investigations. 
 
 Advocate Navkiran Singh accused Chandigarh police of handling the matter in a callous manner and demanded transfer of the probe to CBI. Pointing out that the accused is roaming free after cheating people, the lawyer underlined the need for adoption of remedial measures by Chandigarh and neighbouring states. 
 
 Police booked three persons under sections 420 and 120-B of the IPC on March 3, 2017 on the compliant of Rupinder, a resident of Ludhiana. As per allegations, the company, Foreign Horizon Overseas Consultants, had been duping people in the name of sending them abroad. Company managing director Arvind Ashat and his colleagues were booked in the case.
 
 Many others also approached the police saying they were similarly cheated. On April 1, police arrested two employees of a Sector-8 based immigration firm on charges of cheating. The accused were identified as Gurpreet Singh of Manimajra and   of Nayagaon, who worked at Foreign Horizon Consultant Limited, Sector 8, Chandigarh. 
 
 As per allegations, the company offered to send clients to Australia claiming that Visa would be given in 45 days through fast track visa process. But after getting money and fulfilling formalities, the accused did not send the file to the embassy, making lame excuses. 
 
 With the emergence of a number of complainants, the company MD filed anticipatory bail application in the district court. 
 
 
