GURUGRAM: The relocation of the toll plaza on the   at Kherki Daula to   in  , faces a fresh hiccup. Residents have written to the Haryana chief minister and the Union defence minister, complaining this could compromise the security of an   and national security installations located less than a kilometre from the 65 acre forest land the state government is in the process of acquiring, to set up the commercial complex and toll plaza.

 The proposed site will leave no buffer zone around the security installations, which is a must as per rule. The letter by a group of Gurgaon residents who red-flagged the issue, claimed incidents like the recent attack on the army camp at Sunjwan in J&K will be repeated due to failure of planning by the civil administration.
 
 “The 65-acre toll complex, housing commercial establishments like hotels, motels and food courts, will compromise the safety of the army installation,” said green activist Vaishali Rana Chandra, one of the residents who signed on the letter. She said they only realised the threat to security installations when they availed a map of the proposed toll plaza through  . “The map shows the army installation next to the proposed toll site,” said Rana. 
 
 Vivek Kamboj of NGO Haryali said, “We must keep in mind the latest attack at Sunjwan, where terrorists could study the layout of the camp and movement of army personnel due to its close proximity to civilian areas. We must take cue from these incidents and show foresightedness.”
 
 Rana blamed civil authorities of myopia. “Bad management of the toll at Kherki Daula is behind the massive jams there. To cover up for their incompetence, not only are government agencies endangering security installations, but also allowing 20,000-odd trees to be cut,” said Rana.
 
 She said the RTI reply revealed the proposed toll plaza site is on plantations in the Aravali foothills. “The proposed expansion will block the wildlife corridor and fell around 1,500 acres of forest in the Aravalis, a wildlife habitat. The fragmentation of Aravalis will have long-term impact on ecology and wildlife,” said Rana.
 
 On January 8, TOI had highlighted concern of environmentalists who objected to the decision to shift the toll plaza to Sehrawan, saying rise in number of vehicles on the highway will adversely affect the wildlife-rich area. The district administration has already granted 65 acre to NHAI, five of which are in Sehrawan, the remainder being spread across villages in Manesar. NHAI is currently waiting for clearance from the forest department.
 
 NHAI and district administration officials didn’t comment on the issue.
 
 
