Punjabi singer  , known for his singles like Soch, Joker and Naah, was recently in Lucknow for a concert. The singer, during his visit, said that he shares a strong bond with the city not because of music but because of cricket. "Yes! I have been to Lucknow in the past too. I came here in the year 2003 to play cricket for under-19 Commonwealth Cricket. Then I came back again in 2005 to play Ranji Trophy. Apart from this, I came here to meet a few friends that I had made here. I didn’t explore much of the city. The only thing I remember till date is KD Singh Babu Stadium," says Harrdy, who recently sang   in Tum Bin 2. He adds, "I would have continued my career as a cricketer had I not had an injury in the elbow during an under-19 training camp in Pune. After that injury, I went to Australia for a year for my treatment. But unfortunately, I couldn’t get relief” 
Family has been a big support for Harrdy to help him make a career shift. “After I came back from Australia, my friends and family members motivated me to try my career in singing. They always thought that I had a melodious voice and could sing. I used to sing in school when I was just four. Har ghar ki shaadi mein I used to get requests for singing. They always knew what they were motivating me for; to get into singing. My dad in fact, kept a separate amount for me for my struggle and told me to take the risk. He told me to join him in kheti-badi in case I failed. And finally, in 2009, with my family’s support, I started pursuing a career in singing."
 Telling us more about the journey, Harrdy says, "I had shot my first video This Is Harrdy Sandhu investing my own money and had sent it to a leading music company. Unfortunately they didn’t quite like the idea but another very well-known music company liked it and launched me with Tequilla Shot. However, it was the song Soch in the year 2013 which changed my life as it was a superhit song."
 Interestingly, his screen name Harrdy is also a gift from his cricket ke din, shares the singer. "Not many people know that my real name is  . When I used to play for under-19, I was the only one from Punjab. In that team my friends   and   were also there. So once while we were warming up, since they couldn’t pronounce my name, Robin Uthappa changed it to Harrdy Sandhu. And then it became my pet name. And while making an entry into singing I thought it was an apt screen name," says he.
 Not in a mood to make run of the mill Punjabi videos with fancy cars and models in the backdrop, Harrdy says he is trying to change the trend. "While most of the Punjabi singers might be using models and cars in their videos to make them a hit, I generally avoid using the tried and tested formula. Yes it is a common perception among Punjabi singers that fancy cars and models in a video will make the video a hit, but I feel that at the end of the day, music should be good, rest is not compulsory," he says, adding, "The trend of keeping the singles alive definitely goes to Punjabi singers. In fact, in recent times, it was Honey Singh who took Punjabi music to every Indian. Every   film is incomplete without Punjabi music. This is the only regional music which is alive."
 
 
