PATHANKOT: While the bar in district court Pathankot, which has come into limelight after the Supreme Court shifted the criminal trial of Kathua rape-murder case here, is unequivocally in favour of punishing those involved in gruesome rape and killing of eight-years-old nomad girl, some of its members have divergent views regarding the findings of the police investigation in the case.

 
 On Monday, teh apex court had shifted the trial of the case to Pathankot, around 26km from Kathua that had witnessed mass protests and triggered political crisis in the state over the investigation report of Jammu and Kashmir police. The trial of the case would now begin at the district court Pathankot as soon as the complete records of the case are shifted here from Jammu and Kashmir.
 
 On Tuesday, TOI visited the Pathankot district bar association — youngest bar body of Punjab with around 320 members — to take an account of the sentiments of its members on the issue. Pathankot was upgraded to district and sessions court in 2013. Earlier, it was under district and sessions court Gurdaspur.
 
 Former president of Pathankot   Ashok Parashar said they had full sympathy with victim but   should have conducted a probe in the matter to investigate some aspects of the case as demanded by the accused. “We respect the SC verdict and would extend full cooperation during trial,” he said.
 
 DBA former secretary Shrikant Sharma said the rape and murder of a minor was a heinous crime but what was the harm in having a CBI probe to ensure that no innocent was implicated in the case.
 
 An active bar member Vinod Kumar Mahajan was of the view that an opportunity of fair probe should have been given in the case, especially when the accused were also demanding CBI probe.
 
 Finance secretary of the bar Vijay Abrol said if there was so much resentment against the police probe, the matter should also have been probed by an independent agency to ensure no innocent was framed in the case. “But we are hopeful that a fair trial at Pathankot would bring truth of this curious case,” Abrol said.
 
 Some of the office-bearers of DBA, however, remained evasive while making any comment of the issue and said the bar would ensure smooth trial at Pathankot.
 
 Bar president Rachpal Singh Thakur told TOI that members might have personal opinions but the Pathankot lawyers’ body had no connection with the Jammu Bar Association and would ensure the trial was completed here in a free and fair manner. “Our endeavour would be that no innocent is punished in the case. We would extend all kind of help to all the parties,” Thakur added.
 
 Raman Puri, another veteran member, said they came to know about the alleged false implications of some accused in the case through media and thus, they had no personal sentiments attached to any party.
 
 Bhanu Pratap Shukla, a young DBA member, said they were happy that the apex court had considered Pathankot to decide the case. “Our collective responsibility at the bar would be to ensure the rule of law prevails,” Shukla added.
 
