Ever since Sterlite Copper set up shop in  , MDMK founder and general secretary   has been among the first to oppose it. He has sustained his campaign through legal battles since 1995. But the government’s closure of the plant on Monday doesn’t make Vaiko happy. He says the job is still not done. "I will mobilise thousands of youngsters to demolish the plant, if Sterlite succeeds to get a relief from the court again," says Vaiko in an interview with D Govardan. Excerpts.

 
 
 
 
 Copper smelter is a menace to the environment and the health of the public. That is why farmers of Ratnagiri in Maharashtra protested against Sterlite. When nothing happened 10,000 of them demolished the factory and got the government to cancel the license of the unit. Why didn’t Sterlite move court after that? That’s because the company knew that people will not allow it to function. I am fighting this battle to protect the people of this state and not for pecuniary gains.
 
 
 
 
 After the police firing, when I met people at Tuticorin, I could see their pain and sufferings. It will erupt like a volcano. If justice is denied to them, the next plan will be to seize the plant. In these 25 years of the MDMK, we never got involved in any kind of violence. But, now we have to defend the people and agriculture. I will mobilise thousands of youngsters from across the state and lead it myself with a hammer, come what may. Then, let the police stay away while we demolish it. This self-defense is for our livelihood.
 
 
 
 
 Tamil Nadu cannot be destroyed in the name of development. Neutrino is another disaster and in the event of a calamity both Idukki and Mullaiperiyar dams will be destroyed. The hydrocarbon exploration move will make Cauvery delta a desert. If these are permitted, India will flourish, but Tamil Nadu will be destroyed. I cannot allow it.
 
 
 
 
 It all started well and my padayatra from Point Calimere, ahead of the 1996 assembly polls, attracted large crowds. Rajinikanth told me that he and his fans will not support anyone and left for America. Then Moopanar came out of the Congress. People like Cho Ramasamy and others worked overtime to firm up an alliance of the DMK with the TMC and got Rajinikanth to make that famous "Even God cannot save Tamil Nadu, if Jayalalithaa returns to power" statement. That was the turning point, as there was anger against Jayalalithaa.
 
 
 
 
 In 1998, when Jayalalithaa withdrew support from the A B Vajpayee government, the Prime Minister, with whom I shared a father-son relationship asked me not to desert him. I aligned with the DMK and supported it in 2004 too, when it joined hands with the Congress, but I did not contest. That was my biggest blunder, which led to my eventual detention under Pota. In 2014, I trusted the promise made to me by Narendra Modi that he will be like Vajpayee, when it comes to Sri Lankan Tamils issue. But, he showed his true colours by inviting the "killer of Tamils" (Mahinda Rajpaksa) for his swearing in ceremony and we walked out of the alliance.
 
 
 
 That attempt failed. In TN, there is no space for a third player, beyond the AIADMK and the DMK. I realised it later.
 
 
 
 
 Pooh…Pooh. That’s my answer to their political entry. I know who is behind their jump into politics. But I cannot reveal that.
 
 
 
 
 No. I have grown taller. I want my younger brother M K Stalin to become the chief minister, especially when Hindutva forces are out to destroy the secular fabric of India. Mark my words - Stalin will be the next chief minister of Tamil Nadu, whenever elections happen. We may not have a large vote bank, but the concentrated MDMK votes will wholeheartedly go to the DMK.
 
 
 
 Not at all. From Fidel Castro to Netaji, they were all emotional. I am not comparing myself with them, but I am also emotional and branded as one by opponents. 
 
 
