CHANDIGARH: A district court here has directed the UT police to re-investigate a case in which three excise officials — assistant excise and taxation commissioner   and two excise and   R L Chugh and   — were booked with theft and causing harassment to liquor vendor  .

 
 The police had earlier submitted a cancellation report of the FIR, stating that no evidence was found against the officials. To this, the court said that there were certain facts on which the police report fails to throw light on. Therefore, now, it has directed the cops to file another report till April 2.
 
 
 The complainant, Bajaj, moved the court on August 31, 2017 against the officials whom he alleged were mentally harassing him, giving him monitory losses and misusing their official powers. “Despite having a liquor licence in place, I had not been issued stock by the excise department even after running from pillar to post. Nonissuance of stock is totally arbitrary, illegal and without justification,” he said in his plaint.
 
 
 As per his allegations, Kaushik also tried to seal his liquor vend illegally and unlawfully. “Failing to achieve his objectives, Kaushik harboured a grudge against him,” he satted.
 
 
 To this, the court directed the station house officer (SHO) of Industrial Area Phase 1 to register an FIR against under sections 379 (punishment for theft), 166 (public servant disobeying law, with intent to cause injury to any person) and 120 B (punishment of criminal conspiracy) of IPC.
 
 
 The cops registered an FIR on the directions of the court and started probing the matter. However, they later, filed a cancellation report following lack of evidences. The court then directed the UT police to re-investigate the matter as there were certain facts, which the cancellation report fails to cover.
 
 
 Bajaj is the director of   and has been allotted six vends in Chandigarh.
 
 
 Meanwhile, appointment of Kaushik was also questioned after it was alleged in the petition he was appointed illegally as he was functioning as an assistant professor in Arts College and drawing salary from there. The information in this regard was revealed via an RTI.
 
