On her birthday this year,   had a request for her grandson,  . She asked him to take her to a place near Dhanbad where she would often go with  . Sean says perhaps his Amma could realise that her days were numbered. Excerpts from a chat with him:

 
 
 My bond with her was forged by birth, but I have never used it to get work. When I was born, Amma (Supriya Devi) was in her late 60s. Ma (Soma) used to tell me stories about her films, what she was like in her heyday and the fact that she was hailed as a style icon. I always took interest in acting and Amma wanted me to be an actor but I never asked her to recommend my name to anyone. I am a model trying to learn the nuances of acting, so that I can take it up as a profession. Amma was ailing for some time and I now want to fulfil her dreams. She used to tell me that Dadu (Uttam Kumar) would have loved me as I have such great interest in films, especially the old ones.
 
 
 
 I used to live with Amma and shared almost everything with her; it was the same with her. I remember when I was studying in Nainital, she would come to pick me up from my boarding school and people used to wait to click pictures with her and get autographs signed. In fact, on January 26, when she fell unconscious in the washroom early in the morning, I lifted her and made her lie on the bed but the efforts were in vain. She suffered a massive cardiac arrest and passed away without much pain.
 
 In our free time, Amma and I used to watch her films and each time she liked her performance she would ask for my feedback. ‘Bona (she used to call me by that name), kemon shot ta diyechhilam bol?’ she would ask. She once told me how Ritwik Ghatak broke into tears after she delivered the line, Dada ami banchte chai in Meghe Dhaka Tara. Amma loved to watch serials but she was not clued into current films. She loved to go on long drives with me. A month back, I took her to Prinsep Ghat, where we both had ice creams; she was very fond of them. On her birthday this year (January 8), she requested me to take her to a place near Dhanbad where both Dadu and Amma used to go often to spend some alone time. She could perhaps realise that her days were numbered. Amma’s love for Dadu was unconditional, which I could feel every time she spoke about him. Of late, she used to miss ma every now and then and would say, ‘Amar pashe thak tora sobai, jani na kal ki hobe’.
 
 
 
 
 She would share plenty of incidents. They used to go to Lighthouse every Saturday to watch films and shared a common interest in   movies. Amma’s fave actors were   and Marlon Brando, as she used to find them very stylish and glamorous. She told me how she used to cook Dadu’s favourite dishes each day and how Dadu trusted her blindly. She was not bothered about the way women would go weak in their knees seeing Dadu; she had confidence in her love and the relationship they shared.
 
 
 
 
 She was an amazing cook who could rustle up Indian and continental dishes with equal flair. I loved chingri machher malaikari and mutton curry made by her. She would use spices that made all the difference. She was particular about the way food was cooked. Every time they (domestic helps) failed to follow her mandates, she would lose her cool and make us eat restaurant food. That day, nothing would be cooked at home. Though she is not there anymore, I strongly feel she will forever be remembered. Stars don’t die; they live on in people’s hearts.
 
