NEW DELHI: The chemical   in   is a worried lot. In the past 15 days, the north corporation has sent show-cause notices to at least 1,000 of them asking why their shops should not be sealed as they have not shifted to   in Narela where a site has been earmarked for developing a   market.

 Violating Delhi Municipal Act 1957 and subsequent high court orders, the chemical traders continue to function out of Tilak Bazaar in the densely populated  , said a corporation official, justifying the notice. 
 
 The traders are alarmed as the move has come in the backdrop of the ongoing   drive across the city. “We cannot shift to Narela because we do not have the necessary clearance to start construction on the allotted land,” said Sushil Goyal, former president of Chemical Merchants’ Association.
 
 
  
 
 While a corporation official said many of the chemical shops were running without the necessary municipal licence, traders claimed that the licence had expired. “Since 1995, the civic body has not renewed our trade licence without citing any reason for it,” said Shyam Sundar, general secretary of the association.
 
 One of the main reasons behind an appeal in the high court to shift the chemical traders is the hazardous nature of these shops. A civic official said many of the shops store hazardous, even highly inflammable, chemicals. 
 
 “It is not possible to give these shops any licence as they are located in areas that are difficult to access for emergency services in case of a fire or any other disaster,” the official said. However, the traders’ association claimed that the shops were not used for storing chemicals. 
 
 No shop has been sealed so far, but the traders are anxious. “We are willing to shift to Holambi Kalan, but we have not got the approval to construct shops there from  . We have written to the explosives department for clearance,” said Goyal.
 
 In reply to the show-cause notices, the association has told the corporation that it would put forth its points before the high court on February 20 when the matter is listed for hearing.
 
 
