Vijayawada: Amendments to the Non-Agriculture Assessment Act (  Act), is set to give a boost not only to the real estate business but also to the industrial sector in the capital city and also across the state, according to experts.

 The state government has made the much-needed changes by reducing land conversion charges to give a thrust to new   and the real estate sector. NALA conversion charges have been reduced to 2 per cent from 5 per cent in Vijayawada and Visakhapatnam cities. The charges at other places have come down from 9 per cent to 3 per cent.
 
 The reduction in land conversion charges would be transferred to land rates. Land prices are likely to come down by 1,000 per square yard in Vijayawada and Visakhapatnam where average prices are hovering over 40,000 per square yard. The land prices in other areas are also likely to come down by at least 500 per square yard once the new charges come into effect.
 
 President of the Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Association of India (CREDAI), Andhra Pradesh chapter, YV Ramana Rao said that industrialists are facing a major problem in the form of exorbitant land prices in Andhra Pradesh. Once the amended NALA comes into force, investment on land will increase.
 
 Another important aspect that was brought in the form of amendment is that land conversion can be done online. Anyone can pay respective fee at any Mee Seva Centre and the land conversion would be done online within 15 days’ time. This would bring speed in the process as many of the projects are taking longer periods to take off as the land conversion is taking too much time.
 
 Andhra Pradesh Real Estate Developers’ Association (APREDA) general secretary, Gadde Tirupati Rao, said that it is taking nearly six months for land conversion to be completed. Now, with the new rules taking effect, the process would be completed within 15 days, he said.
 
 Apart from reducing the delays the system, it would also curb corruption. As the conversion is being done online without having to approach any office, the scope for corruption has almost come down.
 
 However, the industry experts express concern over the new amendments. They opine that if it is not made foolproof, the automatic system may be misused by mischievous elements. Though land conversion has nothing to do with ownership of land, people who claim ownership over disputed lands through fake or forged documents, are likely to take advantage of the system to cheat people, Yalavarti Srikanth, a builder from Vijayawada, said.
 
 He said the rules should be framed in such a way that there should not be any scope for the miscreants to misuse the system.
 
 
