JAIPUR: The Jaipur police commissionerate registered maximum cases of murder from 2014 to 2017 in the state. Of the total 504 cases that were reported in the city, highest 234 cases of murders were reported in Jaipur police’s east zone.

 These figures were released by the state government in the assembly recently. According to the figures presented, Rajasthan recorded total 6,091 cases of murders in four years in which the police were able to resolve 5,680 cases and arrested total of 9,090 accused for their alleged involvement in the crime.
 
 
  
 
 The figures state that Jaipur’s east zone registered total 234 cases of murder, followed by Jaipur west which registered total 117 cases, followed by Jaipur police’s south that witnessed 89 such cases. Jaipur’s north zone registered total 64 cases in the past four years.
 
 Jaipur is followed by Alwar which recorded total 420 cases in four year. The Alwar police managed to crack 369 cases of murder and arrested 580 accused. However, none of the accused have been convicted by the court yet. “The Jaipur police commissionerate is divided into four districts-north, west, south and east. Hence, it is no surprise that it recorded maximum cases. Jaipur is also a very large city with skewed police to people ratio,” an official told TOI.
 
 The officials said that murders indicate the actual state of the law and order situation in the state, but Alwar has come as no surprise for experts and cops. “Alwar as district is very unique as it shares border with Haryana, it also has Bhiwadi and Neemrana which are thriving industrial spots of the state. Hence, you have influx of migratory workers there along with organized gangs operating from Haryana,” the official said, adding that most of the murders in Alwar were committed with an intention to settle old enmity.
 
 Alwar is followed by Bharatpur which recorded total 356 cases of murder in past four years. The police in Bharatpur were able to crack 335 cases and arrested total 516 persons, the courts there also convicted total six accused for their involvement in the crime.
 
 The officials said that while the total crime has dropped in the state, the law and order situation in districts like Alwar and Bharatpur continue to pose a serious problem due to inter-state border and influx of weapons.
 
 
