KOLKATA: The toll tax on   Setu ( ) is likely to be doubled. The proposal is awaiting the finance department’s nod.   Commissioner ( ), the agency entrusted with maintenance and operation of the cable-stayed bridge, has sought for revision of toll tax that was last revised in 2010.

 Once the revision is approved, driver of a cab or private taxi needs to shell out Rs 20 from the present Rs 10 and a two-wheeler rider Rs 10, instead of the present Rs 5. While the toll tax for buses is likely to be revised to Rs 100 from Rs 50, for trucks the amount might be revised to Rs 160 from the present rate of Rs 80. For big trailer, the amount may be revised to Rs 220 from the present Rs 110.
 
 Ever since the state secretariat was shifted from the Writers’ Building to Nabanna, there has been tremendous pressure of vehicles on the bridge. While the capacity of the bridge is 85,000 a day, the bridge is already being used by 90,000 vehicles a day, said an HRBC official.
 
 
  
 The higher toll will not only ensure better finance for essential maintenance, it will also reduce vehicular pressure on the bridge. Higher toll will discourage a lot of vehicles to use this bridge, said an official. After changing the toll plaza management, the transport department increased the revenue generation to Rs 45 crore from Rs 27 crore, which had stagnated since 2006.
 
 Amajor portion of the revenue was spent in maintenance of the bridge. “This is one of the best maintained bridges in the country that can’t be closed even for an hour, thanks to frequent VVIP movement. Besides, the bridge connects the city with national highways and logistics hubs along the national highways,” said a transport department officer.
 
 Last September, the transport department had decided to carry out an extensive structural maintenance. The department also got RITES to a do a study on the vehicular load vis-a-vis revenue generation. RITES study also found that the toll inadequate compared to accelerated rate of wear and tear. RITES recommended immediate revision of toll.
 
 The transport department has taken several other steps to reduce traffic snarls at toll plazas on both ends of the bridge.
 
