KOLKATA: The politics of vandalism gripped south Kolkata’s busiest stretch for two hours on Thursday afternoon as rival party supporters chased and assaulted each other, crippling traffic and business. From 1pm to 3pm, the Rashbehari Avenue and S P Mukherjee Road crossing remained the epicentre of tension, prompting all shops to down their shutters. Police said 59 people, including two women, were arrested.

 In a bid to purify the desecrated bust of Syama Prasad Mookerjee with water and milk, several hundred BJP workers broke into smaller groups and tried to head to the   crematorium. They tried to advance in small busts, sporadically. The BJP’s youth supporters were singled out, chased and beaten up by “locals”. The attackers didn’t use their party flags but that couldn’t mask their identity. BJP leader Locket Chatterjee alleged: “The Trinamool Congress goons chased and assaulted our supporters in front of police, who remained a mute spectator.”
 
 
 
  
 
 
 Trinamool Congress chose not to comment on the charges but many claimed the attackers were members of the party’s south Kolkata youth wing owing allegiance to Kumar Saha. Police at many places averted the assault by arresting the BJP supporters. They were also chased near  , at Rashbehari crossing and Keoratala crematorium.
 
 There was a scuffle between youth Trinamool supporters and BJP youth wing members in front of the crematorium. Police intervened and separated them. After that the BJP supporters kept trying to sneak into the crematorium zone where police built a heavy barricade with combat force waiting behind. A few youths BJP supporters were arrested from there.
 
 But 400 metres away, the Rashbehari crossing remained the epicentre of violence. A heavy combat force armed with water cannons and tear gas shells were ready to take on the BJP team led by the state BJP president  , if they violated law. The Trinamool women’s wing members kept a close watch on any infiltration by BJP women wing members and a few clashes broke out right in front of police at Rashbehari crossing, from where some BJP were arrested.
 
 But it ended rather abruptly. Shortly after police stopped the rally of 300 men and women who were carrying two pitchers — one carrying water from the Hooghly and the other containing the mixture of card, cow milk, cow urine and honey meant for the consecration of the bust — BJP state president Dilip Ghosh warned of renewed protests if the state failed to restore the desecrated statue by 5pm. The BJP supporters shouted slogans against the desecration. But the rally was abruptly stopped by Ghosh, who was in hurry to catch the Agartala flight. The BJP supporters then left the place pouring the water on road-side trees.
 
 Later in the evening, Hindu Astitwa Raksha   held a protest meeting outside the Jadavpur University campus. They soon got involved in a brawl with   activists who too had a meeting scheduled at that place. Two Samiti members were later arrested by police.
 
