

 
 
 
 It is a policy matter on which the government can comment. But I am not in favour of legalising such drugs. There is no country that has legalised drugs as such. The case of Portugal is quoted because they have decriminalised possession of a small quantity of drugs. I have my reservations on legalising these kinds of things because societally I don’t think it is acceptable and the law is very clear.
 
 There is a concept in psychology, which we call normalisation. If you normalise ganja today, it is a gate to normalise opium tomorrow and then heroin and other drugs, which are not in the interest of society and the country. Look at the case of one of the countries (USA) where opioidbased medications have led to an epidemic and there are so many other things going on. So, I am against legalisation of drugs.
 
  
 
 
 
 We are basically working on a three-pronged EDP strategy — enforcement, de-addiction and prevention. This is the government strategy that the STF implements along with other departments. In enforcement, we have district police and our own units. De-addiction is done by the health department. The model for the deaddiction is aimed at harm reduction and peer support. Outpatient Opioid Assisted Treatment (OOAT) model has been developed by an expert from the US Dr   along with the STF, and the chief minister approved it in May. For implementation of this model, certain hotspots have been identified by the STF and these have been communicated to the health department. Also, training of doctors in harm reduction has been completed. I attended one of those myself at the  .
 
 We are going in for amendment of the 2011 rules. We are introducing a harm-reduction model with clinics based on outpatient treatment of victims of drug abuse. This is based on the OOAT model. We have proposed the amendment after consulting experts from all over the country, including Dr M Suresh Kumar of Chennai and Dr Atul Ambekar of  , New Delhi.
 
 In the OOAT model, peer support group has been added as an active part of the deaddiction model. The STF also interacts with the Narcotics Anonymous (NA), which is doing a great job and has one of the longest ‘clean’ periods of any of these organisations. Somebody who is part of the NA will be clean for a very long time. And, it is free. They are basically people who have recovered from addiction and are willing to help others. The idea is to have a peer support group with each of these clinics and even otherwise wherever de-addiction programmes are taking place. This provides mental, moral and spiritual strength to a person. Medicines only control the physical and medical side-effects, but psychological effects are controlled by the NA.
 
 Unfortunately, we are a little behind on peer support group part and we hope that with the cooperation of the health department we will be able to progress.
 
 
 
 
 We have two main programmes. One is the Buddy programme. As per psychiatrists and experts, there are two windows of addiction —in the teen age and in the middle age. The teenage addiction is more dangerous as at that age rational thinking has not developed well, and the peer pressure plays a large part in making decisions, especially those which often turn out to be wrong. So, our idea is to target students between 13 years and early 20s in schools, colleges and universities. The Buddy programme is a costfree local model to develop behavioral skills in children. We have learnt from our experience that simply educating people about drugs is not enough. You have to teach a child how to say no when a known person or a stranger offers drugs. It is about how to keep a check on your buddy group. Five questions we use are — What are drugs? What is a buddy group? How to say no to drugs? If your buddy shows signs of drug abuse, what you can do for him?
 
 One of the things the present Congress government said after it took over was that it will not spare cops involved in drugs. But action has been taken only against a very few cops till now. Do you fear that number of cops involved in drug trade is high?
 
 It is possible that some people (cops) are involved. Wherever we come to know, we take action against them. Districts are also being quite strict about it. We welcome information from the public or anyone. We’ll not be found wanting. However, I’ll say that we cannot proceed on rumours. We need hard evidence to take a person to court because it is a very serious case if drugs are allowed to be sold or there is some kind of connivance or corruption. So, we have to be very careful that we take the right decision.
 
 
 
 I think it is very important. If we get the data on overdose deaths, it would help us to build preventive barriers as well as provide support in those particular areas. It would help us focus much better. Most countries, at least in the West, have data on overdose deaths. As far as I know, this data is not available in the state as yet.
 
 There is a stigma attached to drug addicts and even their families don’t want to reveal anything about their drug abuse.
 
 That itself is a major problem because it prevents addicts from getting help. We need those people to come forward and get help. If a person is able to enter the drug de-addiction programme with peer support, they can continue to enjoy a healthy life and can become a productive citizen. We want people to come forward. It is not that the stigma will vanish overnight, but it is much better to have a person living healthy under treatment rather than dying of overdose by hiding it.
 
 
 
 
 The AIIMS report of 2015 says there are 12 lakh drug addicts out of which roughly around 3.5 lakh are hardcore addicts and others are harmful users. I would not like to take a guess on the exact figures. I don’t think that anybody can now have that kind of social uproar after one year that there used to be about drugs and connivance earlier. I feel reasonably confident in saying that the drug supply has been choked. One of the grounds for saying that is the increase in the cost of drugs. It is also correct that many people try to shift to other drugs when they shy away from treatment.
 
 
 
 
 Yes, there is definitely a difference. The number of recoveries has increased. The BSF is cooperating well. There is much more dense deployment now. But there is no situation where you can completely stop it because topography is such and there are many other things.
 
 War against drug de-addiction is a multiagency approach. Are you getting the required support from other government departments?
 
 We say it is comprehensive action against drug abuse (CADA). I think we are reasonably integrated because we are part of the CMO with full support from chief minister  . We do get reasonable support from other departments. We would like it to even increase more in future and we would also like to extend our support to other departments, simultaneously.
 
 
 
 
 When we started, we had nothing. Today we have a clear strategy. We have integrated with other departments. As we go along, we will keep adding it as per the requirement. But the basic three areas — Enforcement, De-addiction and Prevention — will remain the same. It is 360-degree approach. Other programmes can be added under these three. Like, once our Buddy programme fully covers government and private schools, we would like to help school dropouts or children who have never studied and are working as mechanics or farm labourers.
 
 
 
 
 We will launch new programme called the Drug Abuse Prevention Officer (DAPO) on March 23 to build a bridge with the community at large. The AIIMS report says 12 lakh people are affected (by drug abuse) and 80% of these abuse opioids like heroin etc. But there are 2.8 crore who are not users. Besides keeping attention on those who use drugs, we want to engage the general community which so far has been a bystander or peripheral player. They are the main stakeholders and they are the ones who feel the impact in crime, in social instability and social fabric. We want to engage them directly as DAPO.
 
 Appointed DAPOs would raise awareness in their locality, do prevention and facilitate people who are addicts to go to a government centre and get de-addicted. They will build up walls of prevention for people who are vulnerable. If one boy in the locality is doing it, his brother is likely to do it. So it is better to build up those defences right now.
 
 
 
