BENGALURU: The   in the   is intensifying: 26  , including rowdies, have been shot at by police in the past seven months.

 This is, probably, the first time so many rowdies have been shot at in such a short span of time in Bengaluru. The spike comes after T Suneel Kumar took over as   in July-end 2017.
 
 Statistics collected for the past five years show that the city police opened fire on rowdies in 47 cases, 55% of which were reported during Kumar’s tenure. The first of these shootings was reported on August 25 last year.
 
 A Bengaluru deputy commissioner of police told TOI: “A covert operation is being carried out against rowdy elements terrorizing people. We open fire only in cases where rowdies attack us when we try to nab them. We’re working towards making the city safer without going on a publicity overdrive.”
 
 The officer said the crackdown intensified in recent months, following criticism that the police was doing nothing to curb rowdyism.
 
 But the big question is: Are city cops slowly turning trigger-happy? Dismissing the suggestion, Kumar said: “Everything is a matter of perception. We want to make it clear we’re not trigger-happy, we are only doing our job. Our primary responsibility is to ensure public safety, especially for women and children. Rowdy activities will not be tolerated.”
 
 Not encounter killings, we fire only to incapacitate them: Police
 
 On April 1, rowdies Paramesh and Santosh were shot in their leg in Talaghattapura police limits.
 
 Police maintain they open fire only in self-defence. “It’s only when a criminal who is being pursued gets violent and tries to attack us do we open fire to protect ourselves. Most of the rowdies face charges of murder, assault, kidnapping and extortion. We fire only at their legs to incapacitate them. We are not into encounter killings,” the DCP said.
 
 Referring to two such incidents reported last week, the DCP said while rowdy-sheeter Nirmal, alias Roopesh, was on the run for three years, the rowdies shot in their legs were wanted in a kidnap and molestation case. A few burglars who had escaped after robbing a constable of his belongings were also shot at during an operation to nab them.
 
 
  
 
 
