Panaji: With both the Mandovi bridges blocked by the mining dependent protestors on Monday, the only way to proceed to Bardez- or so people thought- was via the Panaji-Betim ferry. But it was not to be. All hell broke loose at the Panaji jetty around noon and refused to die down for three hours as bikers frantically tried to shove their way into and out of the ferry. Desperately looking to get from Panaji to Betim jetty, bikers ended up blocking the exit route for the oncoming vehicles (Betim to Panaji), paralyzing traffic on the small jetty. The chaos spilled onto the footpath along the promenade and on the D B Marg, causing a traffic jam that extended right up to Kala Academy at lunch time. It was the parents taking their little children back from school, the students returning after answering their exams, the elderly running errands and the tourists who were close to missing their flights who were stuck for almost an hour and had to bear the brunt of the protest and police mismanagement. With all the police huddled at the protest site near KTC bus stand, not a single cop showed up for close to three hours to bring some sense to the disorder that was unfolding meters away from the Panaji police station. An ambulance with its siren on, proceeding to pick up a patient from Porvorim was stuck for close to an hour just trying to get from Panaji to Betim.  Citizens rose to the occasion and began manning the traffic, shouting at unruly motorists, eventually making way for the ambulance. Suzie Miranda from Sangolda who was trying to get her son across from Panaji to Betim after he finished his last examination jumped into traffic cop mode while waiting and helped streamline traffic. She managed to create an access way where there was none, allowing another woman who was stuck at the jetty for three hours in her car, to get out and head to the airport. A Punjabi tourist got injured while alighting from the ferry and began looking for a taxi to take her to a hospital to treat her bleeding foot. Glynis Fernandes, a BBA student, was struggling to find an alternative to go back home to Cortalim. “It took me two hours to reach from Panaji city to the bus stand, otherwise a 15-minute journey. My mother was worried and kept calling me to ensure I was okay. Educational institutions should suspend classes when such situations occur,” she said.