While on a   plan, you must have been told by many to have lemon water or apple cider vinegar as these can give your
  plan a boost. Though just by consuming either of them, the fat won’t melt away, but consuming them surely provides you with some nutritional benefit which is good for weight loss. Apple cider vinegar makes you feel satiated and lowers blood sugar level and thus, helps you  . But which of these two is a better option to
 ? Read on to know.

 
 
 People claim that apple cider vinegar has a lot of health benefits but not all of them are backed by science. However, the most discussed and studied health benefit of apple cider vinegar is that it helps to lower blood sugar level. Apple cider vinegar does so by increasing insulin sensitivity. A study published in Diabetes Care in 2004 says, when taken with a high-carb meal, the vinegar increases insulin sensitivity. It’s great news for people who are diabetic and also for people who want to shed kilos. Why the latter? Because insulin is a fat storage hormone and insulin sensitivity means lower level of insulin in the body. Low level of insulin is said to help you lose weight easily.
 
 Another important way in which apple cider vinegar helps you lose weight is by boosting your metabolism and suppressing your appetite. According to a 2005 study published in the European Journal of Clinical Nutrition, apple cider vinegar, in addition to improving insulin sensitivity, increases satiety. Acetic acid, which is the main active compound in apple cider vinegar increases the feeling of fullness when taken with a high-carb meal. The feeling of fullness leads to a lower calorie intake and thus, weight loss!
 
 
 
 
 Same as it happens in the case of apple cider vinegar, people have also claimed a lot of things about lemon water and weight loss. However, not all of them are backed by science. Lemon juice is a good source of Vitamin C, potassium and citric acid. According to a study published in the Journal of the American College of Nutrition, people who consumed an adequate amount of vitamin C oxidised more fat during exercise as compared to those who did not consume as much. Apart from lemon, other good sources of vitamin C are orange, kiwi, grapefruit and red bell pepper. 
 
 
 
 Both apple cider vinegar and lemon juice are two natural substances that can boost your 
 . But none of them can replace a healthy diet and exercise, the two primary things required to lose weight. However, for the sake of comparison, apple cider vinegar is a better option as it gives your weight loss plan a boost in more than one way. Apple cider vinegar can be consumed by diluting it in water and by putting it on salads. 
 
 However, regular consumption of these acidic drinks may lead to erosion of the enamel of your teeth. So, do not overdo either and consult a doctor before you include any of these two in your daily diet. 
 
 Ideal maximum daily consumption of apple cider vinegar: 30 ml
 Ideal maximum daily consumption of lemon juice: Juice of one lemon
 
