NEW DELHI: The spinners have been most intriguing aspect of this IPL so far. Teams have loaded their armoury with spin and it is the wrist spinners – a rage in world cricket in past 18 months – who have managed to hold their own when faced with batsmen on a rampage.

 
 Delhi Daredevils’ match against   at the Feroz Shah Kotla on Friday could signal a change in this trend. Summer is hitting its peak and tired pitches are bound to lose pace.
 
 
 
 
 In this scenario, the Daredevils would hope that it turns in their favour. This is their most important roll of the dice. The team management has preferred to have slower tracks, given the inefficiency of its bowling attack. But new captain   will know that his spin department would struggle to match the quality and consistency of the opponents who boast of Kuldeep Yadav, Sunil Narine and Piyush Chawla.
 
 “Spinners are going to be an integral part of the tournament. They have done pretty well. Credit to spinners they are coming in with new skills to challenge the batsmen. As we move on into the tournament, the pitches will slow up and the spinners will be a lot more in play,” KKR skipper   reckoned on Thursday.
 
 Obviously, Karthik enjoys the cushion of three quality spinners. Daredevils are yet to zero down on their spin attack. Amit Mishra, the only wrist spinner of repute, hasn’t been his old self. Shahbaz Nadeem’s left-arm spin hasn’t been consistent and offspinner Jayant Yadav hasn’t inspired enough confidence to make the playing XI yet.
 
 Karthik refrained from drawing comparisons but did hint at how finger spinners could still lag behind even as the tournament is more likely to see lower scores from now on. “A finger spinner can only bowl in one direction. With mystery spinners it just takes an extra second to figure out which way it is turning. Our spinners have been consistent and I am sure going into the back end of the tournament they will have more impact.”
 
 As for Daredevils, they are picking up the pieces. They are yet to get the combination right. “Our spinners haven’t bowled badly. The other teams are rolling with their spinners a lot more though,” conceded DD bowling coach James Hopes.
 
 Then came his defence: “Everyone is trying to get away through the powerplay and death overs as best they can. You can crunch the numbers as much as you want but all teams are struggling with their powerplays. Having come back home, we can expect our spinners to make an impact. On a pitch here that suits spin a little more, we are hoping for them to do the job in the middle overs.”
 
 
