PATNA: A day after Chief Justice Rajendra Menon of the Patna high court said his call to 100 went unanswered recently, zonal IG Nayyar Hasnain Khan on Thursday directed SSP Manu Maharaaj to review the functioning of Patna Police’s   unit and submit a report to him within 24 hours.

 TOI carried a report on Thursday on the CJ’s oral observation in his courtroom on Wednesday while hearing a batch of PILs over noise pollution. The CJ said he had made the call to 100 after midnight a few days back to complain to police against the loud music being played at a hotel near his official residence at Chhajjubagh, but nobody from the Dial-100 unit even called back ever.
 
 The IG, in his letter to the SSP, expressed regret and displeasure over the Dial-100 unit service. The letter states that quite often it (100) becomes completely non-functional at night and several complaints were received from senior officials in this connection recently. The letter said the service is a major connection between police and common man and its poor performance badly affects crime control, law and order and police image in public.
 
 “The matter puts a serious question mark on activeness and image of the Patna police,” the IG wrote in his letter.
 
 Ordering a major change, the IG ordered the SSP to post an ASP or DSP rank officer as in charge of the service to monitor the information and grievances received from public on regular basis. At present, two sub-inspector rank officers man the Dial-100 service of Patna police.
 
 The IG also directed the SSP to review the performance of the officer posted at Dial-100 and remove those who are inactive or careless. He also ordered the SSP to post more than one officer at 100 during night. Khan also said no policeman posted in Dial-100 should be deployed somewhere else and asked the SSP to hold a meeting with the telecom operators.
 
 “The Dial-100 emergency service control should have information about all police patrolling vehicles’ locations, so that any information received from people could be communicated to the nearest patrolling party for quickest response,” Khan directed the SSP.
 
 The SSP, however, blamed the telecom operators for non-connectivity of Dial-100 service. He said more than 5.8 lakh calls are received by this unit monthly. “We will soon hold a meeting with the operators on the issue,” Maharaaj told media persons.
 
 
