KOLKATA: The two deaths at the Chingrighata crossing on Saturday morning resulted in massive rioting on EM Bypass and the adjoining area. Hours earlier, late on Friday night, at the other end of the Bypass — at Patuli — another eight persons received injuries after two bikes collided with a car. The twin accidents have yet again put Bypass on the cops’ radar and Lalbazar immediately began a stock-taking exercise.

 According to sources, Chingrighata crossing has always been a worry for the traffic police — its proximity to two other crossings (Bypass-Canal Road and Bypass-Beliaghata Main Road) on one side and the speed corridor near Captain   barely 300m ahead have made traffic management a tricky business. This site has witnessed 11 accidents, several of them fatal, in the past year.
 
 “The residents of Sukanta Nagar are not exaggerating when they complain that we have failed to arrange for a safe method of crossing the road. One signal here decides movement from three directions. Yet the PWD has always turned down all plans of a subway citing technical issues. Though they agreed to construct a foot overbridge, that has been stalled ever since the   construction began on Bypass,” explained an officer. However, the idea of a subway at Saheb Gate has been shot down by locals.
  
  
 
 Lalbazar said that an alternate plan — to ensure that a cluster of signals were operated simultaneously — has kicked off, but it has its own set of problems. “Sometimes, we find that at non-important signals, the tail gets longer with no crossovers taking place. But we are hopeful the entire system will be up and running soon,” a source said.
 
 According to the   survey, the Bypass stretch remains one of the number one killer roads with a total of 54 deaths reported between 2015 and 2017.
 
 “There are no demarcated crossovers even though there has been an explosion of people on both sides of the Bypass. Temporary guard walls are often breached. Similarly, there are issues regarding movement of cars due to the construction work going on there,” said a source. “A major change in street furniture has brought down number of accidents up to the   office stretch. A similar effort elsewhere will help tackle snarls. Enforcing rules without creating infrastructure will not reduce accidents,” said a Lalbazar official.
 
  
  
 
 
 
