TIRUNELVELI: The mass cleanliness drive undertaken on a 72km stretch in Thamirabarani river on March 10 may have helped retrieve several tonnes of waste, but after more than a month most of the places, waste can be found strewn around especially near the collectorate, situated close to the riverbed.

 With liquor consumption taking place unabated on the river, hundreds of bottles can be seen opposite the collectorate. While some are thrown on the banks, many are broken into pieces resulting in injuries to people and cattle alike.
 
 Apart from bottles,  ,  , soft drink bottles and disposable plastic cups are found in large numbers in and around the stone mandapams on the river banks. 
 
 Collector Sandeep Nanduri said that people cannot be stopped from going to the river and that some mechanism would be worked out to prevent miscreants from using the river for consuming alcohol.
 
 “Incidents of drowning is also an issue of concern. There have been four such incidents in recent weeks. There are gates to the river near the collectorate that can be locked in the late hours of the day. We will also request the city police to intensify patrolling along the stretch,” he added.
 
 It may be recalled that several tonnes of waste, including plastic and used clothes were collected from the river during the third end-to-end mass cleanliness drive undertaken from Papanasam on March 10. Nearly 20,000 volunteers and government staff were involved in the drive.
 
 Following the drive, the district administration and local bodies have been working on efforts to come up with long-term solutions to keep the river clean by constructing toilets, providing garbage bins and preventing sewage flown into the river.
 
 The collector, however, expressed concern over the issue as the proposed measures would not be sufficient to put an end to the issue as the river stretch is long and there are various access points that cannot be blocked. He said that only an attitudinal change would prevent people from misusing the river banks.
 
 
