PUNE: Unearthing the remains of a historical figure on the very first day of the excavation is literally striking gold. And   and her team from the University of Leicester did just that... late in August of 2012, in a car park at Leicester.

 “We had marked out the spot where Richard III, the King of   between 1483 and 1485, was buried. On August 25, 2012, exactly 527 years after he was buried, we found a skeleton on the first day of the excavation. A few weeks later, we were able to confirm that the skeleton was indeed of Richard III. It matched the mitochondrial DNA of two of his sister’s descendants. Also, the skeleton’s spine was twisted, because   was known to suffer from scoliosis,” King said while showing a photograph of the excavation.
 
 In the city as part of a British Council-sponsored mission to encourage academic exchanges between India and the United Kingdom, King talked about the life and death of Richard III and the extraordinary recovery of his remains more than 5 centuries after his death.
 
 Richard III was 32 when he died at the Battle of Bosworth Field on August 22, 1485, leaving behind no natural successor... his son died at the age of 10 though he had two other illegitimate children. He had a hasty burial — no coffin, no shroud — at the Greyfriars, which was demolished during Henry VIII’s reign. For centuries that Richard III, who inspired a Shakespearean play, and his remains were hidden from the public eye.
 
 Turi King, who is a Canadian-British, started off in archaeology and anthropology. However, a case study of the Romanovs in Russia got her interested in genetics. King and her team usually use mitochondrial DNA and Y chromosomes in the DNA strand. As the Y chromosome is passed down through generations of males, King said tracing men’s genealogy is easier than of women.
 
 In the case of Richard III, the hair samples collected from the grave helped describe the 15th Century king. “We tested the hair samples and there was a 96% chance that his eyes were blue,” she said.
 
 King acknowledged that since the royal families keep extensive records, tracing their genealogy is relatively simple. But what about cases where the documentation is not as extensive? “That requires a big contribution from the archaeologists. The genealogists should team up with the ones who are excavating and researching the artefacts,” she said.
 
 More than five decades after his death, the remains of King Richard III received a   at the   on March 26, 2015 — a compromise, as neither Westminster nor Windsor, had any space left for more burials. “It was quite incredible. Richard III was Duke of Gloucester before he was crowned the king, and the current Duke attended the burial. So did Countess Sophie of Wessex. And actor Benedict Cumberbatch was there too, as he also turned out to be a distant relative of Richard III. He even and recited a poem,” King said.
 
 
