MAHISADAL (EAST MIDNAPORE)/MUMBAI: A 32-year-old man from   in Bengal has been arrested for allegedly repeatedly calling up landlines at a former star cricketer’s home and office in Mumbai to harass his daughter.

 
 Debkumar Maity, 32, called up the former cricketer’s home 25 times in the past week, claiming he was in love with his daughter, and even threatened to kidnap her if he was not allowed to marry her.
 
 Maity’s parents claimed he was mentally unstable, but the Mumbai police, which arrested him, booked him for stalking, molestation and criminal intimidation and took him to Mumbai on transit remand on Saturday.
 
 Maity was flown to Mumbai on Sunday evening. He will be produced in court on Monday or Tuesday, sources said. “He used to say, ‘Woh meri hai, aur agar koi mujhe usse milne nahi dega to mai usse kidnap kar lunga (she’s mine and if someone stops me from meeting her, I will kidnap her)’,” said a police officer.
 
 “The calls were answered either by domestic helps or office staff. The man would ask them to give the girl’s mobile number or pass the phone to her. He would repeatedly say that he was in love with her and threatened to kidnap her if he was not allowed to marry her,” the officer added.
 
 A police source said the last call was placed on January 2 and the ex-cricketer’s personal assistant lodged a police complaint on Friday. “Maity admitted to making the calls and said he saw nothing wrong in that,” said a cop, adding, “He claimed to have got the numbers from a relative in Mumbai.” Maity allegedly told cops that he had first seen the ex-cricketer’s daughter on TV at the gallery of Wankhede stadium during a Test match in 2013.
 
 An officer said the Class X dropout had a tattoo of the girl on his right arm, had kept several newspaper cuttings of her photographs, and her sketches drawn by him. His phone gallery is full of her pictures downloaded from her Instagram and Facebook accounts. Maity’s mother admitted that he used to talk about her all the time at home and expressed a desire to marry her, but also said that he had been under psychiatric treatment since 2011.
 
 “In 2010, he had a break-up and turned eccentric. He was a good painter but stopped work. For the last four years, he has been constantly talking about her. We used to rebuke him but he never listened. But the police should have mercy on him as he is a mental patient,” said his mother Kanaklata Maity.
 
