CHENNAI: A dawn-to-dusk bandh called by the   and its friendly parties to condemn the Centre’s failure to constitute a   management board evoked good response in Tamil Nadu with most shops remaining closed and bus services affected. The bandh affected train services in some places as protesters staged rail rokos. Most autorickshaws were off the road.

 Police arrested DMK working president M K Stalin, TNCC chief S Thirunavukkarasar, Dravida Kazhagam leader K Veeramani and VCK leader Thol Thirumavalavan when they blocked arterial roads like the Anna Salai in Chennai. Thousands of cadres joined the leaders in blocking traffic. After staging a road roko on the Anna Salai, Stalin and others were marching towards the Anna Memorial when police stopped and arrested them.
 
 When Stalin was arrested, DMK cadre turned violent. Some of them toppled barricades kept on the roadside.
 
 
 
 After their arrest, Stalin and other party leaders were detained in a marriage hall at Purasawalkam. Later, Stalin conducted the marriage of a VCK member in the marriage hall. 
 
 The couple – Bharathidasan and Srimati – were to get married in a nearby marriage hall. Their marriage was originally scheduled to be conducted by VCK leader Thol Thirumavalavan. However, after the detention of the leaders, they were asked to come to the marriage hall where Stalin and others were detained. 
 
  
  
 
 Stalin conducted the marriage of the couple in the presence of Thirumavalavan. Stalin gave Rs 500 each to the couple as present.
 
 
 
 
 Several police personnel were deployed on the Kamarajar Salai as there were rumours that students and youngsters were planning stage a protest there.
 
 Protesters blocked main roads in all other cities and towns -- including Coimbatore, Trichy, Madurai, Salem, Tirunelveli and Thanjavur -- and courted arrest.
 
 CPM state secretary K Balakrishnan and party cadre blocked trains at Park Station in Chennai. There are reports of farmers and Left party members blocking trains in various parts of the state. 
 
 Bus services were being operated, but not to the full extent. Protesters damaged MTC buses in Chennai. Government buses and a private bus were pelted with stones in Vellore and Tiruvallur districts.
 
  
  
 
 
 About 30%-40% of private buses were not operated in Trichy while 80% shops remained closed.
 
  “Around 147 city buses and 153 mofussil private buses ply out of Trichy every day. Though we are not part of the protest, fearing backlash, around 30% of private buses were not operated,” D R Dharmarajan, secretary, Federation of Bus Operators Association of Tamil Nadu. Police personnel were deployed in TNSTC depots to ensure smooth movement of fleets.
 
 The bandh was near total in the Union territory of Puducherry.
 
 
 
 
 
