In the latest episode of  ,   asks   if she would accompany her to the market to buy books and stationery for Saahil. The latter tells her she would love to. They suddenly hear  's voice, seeking help. They all rush to his aid.

 Meanwhile, a lady enters the Oberoi mansion. Khanna follows her and when they enter the main hall, he asks her who she is. The lady tells Khanna to first take care of Shivaay. Looking at Shivaay's condition, Khanna gets distracted.
 
 Shivaay tells them that he has run out of his medicines. Om tries the doctor's number and reaches him with great difficulty. The lady walks up to Shivaay, Om, Rudra and their wives, she asks them to direct her to the kitchen as she knows a home-made remedy. 
 
  tells her she will take her, but Anika asks Gauri to go. They make 'kada' for Shivaay. However, he refuses to take the drink. She forces him to take it. This makes everyone wonder who she is. They begin to inquire about her and the lady tells her she is their grandmother's friend, Devyani.
 
 When Shivaay asks Rudra to call Dadi and inform her that her friend is here, she stops him. Devyani tells them she doesn't want to bother her friend who is on a pilgrimage (something she learns from Gauri while they were making 'kada'). Anika and others ask her to stay at the Oberoi mansion until Dadi returns and Devyani agrees to it. All the while, Khanna is suspicious of her and decides to know her background. 
 
 When Anika shows Devyani her room, the latter asks her about the price of the pretty bangles she is wearing. Anika tells her they were gifted by Shivaay. Later in the day, Bhavya finds Rudra struggling with pain in his eyes. She goes to get cold water for him. 
 
 Anika and Gauri are seen with Devyani, learning to prepare a dish. When Bhavya comes, Anika tells her they learnt to prepare something new from Devyani. Bhavya tells them they should have called her as well. But Anika comments that she is never around, which makes Bhavya feel bad. 
 
 Devyani goes with cold water to Rudra's room. She helps him get rid of the eye pain and cleverly takes away his mobile phone. 
 
 Also, Devyani senses the drift between Anika, Gauri and Bhavya. She takes Bhavya along with her to meet Anika and Gauri. Devyani tells them how Bhavya feels lonely when the two of them get together.
 
 Anika and Gauri tell Bhavya that she is like their younger sister and she should never feel like this. They all hug each other. Devyani is happy to see this. She then takes Om, Rudra, Shivaay, Bhavya, Anika and Gauri out to have street-side Chinese food. 
 
 While they are eating, Rudra realizes his cellphone is missing. He begins to panic. Keep watching this space for more updates.
 
