GURUGRAM: The city’s   is weeks away from registering FIRs. The first floor of the recently inaugurated swanky police building situated in   on Golf Course Road behind the  , which also houses the office of ACP (DLF) and an ACP (crime), will be used as the cyber police station. As of now, the cyber police station is in transition, getting shifted from the police commissioner’s office to its new location. 

 The final hurdle before the long-delayed cyber police station — government approval — arrived recently, along with approval for the women’s police station, a police spokesperson said. City police are currently taking a few important decisions, including allocation of staff for the new police station, before it can be inaugurated. They said the station should start registering FIRs by the end of this month.
 
 According to sources, the cyber police station will probe cases registered under the IT Act, which requires the investigating officer to be of inspector rank. So while an inspector will be appointed as the SHO of the police station, it will also have other inspectors present as investigators.
 
 A senior police official said this could lead to ego clashes among officers. To solve this, police will appoint an ACP-rank officer to supervise operations in the city. A police spokesperson said the police commissioner is yet to decide upon who this officer will be, that appointments for the cyber police station are not over yet.
 
 Gurgaon is going to be the second district after   to get such a station in Haryana. Major metro cities such as Delhi and Mumbai already have cyber police stations, which are dedicated to investigating cyber crimes. Gurgaon sees a variety of cyber crimes. In 2017, of the total 3,297 complaints received, 1,916 were for frauds in online banking, credit or debit card or cheating through mobile. A further 264 complaints were related to Facebook, another 240 of internet fraud and 51 of data theft. After verification, as many as 400 FIRs were registered last year, as opposed to 240 in 2016.
 
 City police claimed it has sufficient infrastructure to handle the level and degree of complaints. “We are in the process of allotting more staff and equipment to the cyber police station,” said  , police PRO. However, several sources told TOI a major roadblock for the unit is getting permission to track IP addresses and bank details. “Most offices of social media firms are located in the United States, and don’t respond promptly to our requests. This is made worse as such crimes can be committed from anywhere in the country, or even abroad. Banks also take time to cooperate. Therefore, it takes time to verify or probe a case,” said a senior police official.
 
 
