NEW DELHI: “There is a saying in these parts that flowing water and snakes never halt. So, if not a miracle, how do you explain this?” asks Randheer Singh with pious indignation. The 63-year-old retired municipal corporation employee looks reverently at the bronze-coloured reptile that others are regarding with both curiosity and devotion. Nem Chand Tyagi, a wizened old  , who has been taking care of the makeshift shrine, claims that attempts were made to release the snake in the woods, but it returns to its “chosen land” each time. There are gasps as people take this information in.

 Rewla Khanpur, a well-off village of cemented streets, SUVs and farmhouses on the Delhi-Haryana border near  , has suddenly become an unlikely pilgrimage  . Every day, people cross the mustard fields and congregate at a sand heap, in front of which are a dozen concrete bricks stacked to form a small hidey hole. A red cloth lies before it, strewn with marigold flowers. The other objects there — a framed picture of Lord Shiva and a small stone Shivling — indicate that the villagers think the four-foot-long snake is a godsend, a ‘naag devta’, no less.
 
  
  
 
 “We have been offering milk to naag devta. It doesn’t eat anything else,” says the 75-year-old Tyagi. Three days ago, Randheer Singh even organised a bhandara (community meal) in the snake’s honour. It was attended by 700 devotees from 15 villages, including Rewla, Chhawla, Shikarpur, and Kanganhedi. “These days, even mahants and politicians have been coming for a darshan,” says Singh.
 
 Indeed, Mahant Sitaram Maharaj, who presides over the neighbouring Dharampur Shiva Mandir, paid a visit on Friday and termed the appearance of the snake a “miracle”, upon hearing which the crowd deliriously raised chants of Har Har Mahadev!
 
 The more sceptical of the people, among them wildlife experts, see no miracle in the snake’s appearance. It has been identified as a venomous spectacled cobra specimen (Naja naja). Faiyaz Khudsar, scientist in-charge at the Yamuna Biodiversity Park, said the reptile appeared to be a juvenile, pale and malnourished, and possibly in need of urgent help. “Prima facie, the snake’s paleness and its behaviour of returning to the spot indicate it was probably kept in captivity and thinks the place is its home. It has possibly also been defanged,” said Khudsar. He warned that milk should not be fed to the cobra, which cannot digest it and can actually cause it to die.
 
 But unmindful of this possibility, devotees offer sweets and bowls of milk. And as the blue smoke of incense sticks rise and fill the air with a cloying sweetness, some of the more daring stretch out their hands to touch the cobra. It hisses and retreats into its hole among the grey bricks. The devotees content themselves by joining their palms in obeisance and leaving behind offerings of 10-50-100 rupee notes.
 
 The snake made its appearance a month ago, according to villagers, and has now made this spot near a broken concrete wall its own. There are the unbelieving who speculate that this is all a ploy to grab the plot, which belongs to the department of floods and irrigation. But the majority are certain that something divine has occurred and want a temple to be built there. “Mandir to yahi banaenge jo bhi ho (whatever happens, a temple has to be built here),” asserts Moorti Devi, 60, who has brought her grandkids to receive the snake’s blessings.
 
 A meeting of surrounding villages was recently called to discuss the matter of a temple. “The unanimous decision was that the government has to give us permission to build a temple,” said the youthful Dipak Tyagi, who helps maintain the temporary shrine. “We will approach the mayor of   on Saturday.”
 
 
