MUMBAI: More than 1,300 citizens wrote to the   over the 85,891 proposed hawking pitches. Wednesday was the last day for Mumbaikars to send in their suggestions and objections to the civic administration. 

 Around 40 objections were received in connection with proposed vending pitches near Bombay Gymkhana. Several objections have been received against hawking slots in posh localities of south Mumbai, Bandra’s Pali Hill and Powai.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 Activists alleged that the exercise was poorly handled and demanded that the BMC reach out to more people for feedback. They want the deadline to be extended. BMC officials said they will examine the details and take a decision within by next week. “To ensure that the hawkers’ list prepared by officials some years ago is not manipulated, we have instructed licence inspectors to re-examine the 99,435 eligible hawkers afresh match them with their Aadhaar card,” said an official. 
 
 Viren Shah of the   said, “The BMC proposed hawking pitches randomly, even outside temples, schools and stations. It shows that they were not serious while conducting the survey. They should withdraw the list. There was no awareness programme conducted by the BMC to explain the process to send feedback. Many people were unaware about the process due to which they were unable to send their complaints.”
 
 Civic officials said that they were concentrating on finalizing the hawkers’ list and invited public feedback after putting the list online. Officials refused to comment on the demand to extend the deadline. 
 
 “We got most of the feedback in the month of December. After that, we gave a month’s extension, but few wrote to the BMC in January,” said an official. Deputy municipal commissioner Nidhi Choudhary said, “After examining the collected feedback we will prepare out list and put it before town vending committee for their examination. They will make the final list which will than go to a special committee that will be constituted under the mayor, to take final decision on the proposed list.” 
 
 Samjawadi Party leader in the BMC Rais Shaikh said, “The feedback received shows that the process was badly handled. People were unaware about the pitches list. The BMC should extend the deadline and reach out to people, explaining the hawking pitches and feedback process.”
 
