CHENNAI: A change in evaluation patterns has to be brought into the educational system to ensure that   is not neglected at the school level, school education secretary   has said .

 "Whether in government or private institutions, there is pressure to score because evaluation focuses only on that aspect and needs to be changed," he said. 
 
 The secretary was speaking at a discussion on 'Mainstreaming Sports in Schools' organised by the   at the   on Friday.
 
 "Sports has to be an integral part of education. While there is no dearth (of ideas) at the policy level, we are all lacking in implementation and how to make this happen on ground is my worry," he said.
 
 While there are two hours each of physical education and life-oriented education classes per week, heads of the institutions many times end up taking these classes for different purposes, he said. 
 
  was a pioneer in carrying out a battery of tests for sports and had introduced assessment cards with parameters to judge every child. However, it has become an usual practice by schools to instinctively award 50 out of 50, he observed.
 
 Yadav said the mindset of people also needs to change. "Many of us ask our children about their academic performance but fail to ask them about the physical activity," he said. 
 
 Saumil Majmudar, co-founder and CEO of EduSports, commented that winning medals has become the only parameter to measure sports. 
 
 Instead, there should be an inclusive democratic measure where the child must be able to do certain activities to be deemed fit. Quoting recent studies carried out by the company, he said 1 in 3 children were found to have low BMI, 1 in 2 children are not flexible and 2 out of 5 don't have strength to engage in sports activities. 
 
 "When someone says sports, everyone jumps to it as a career option. At the school level, the battle shouldn't be about career but should be about fitness, personality, and setting the foundation of education," he remarked. 
 
 One of the solutions offered by him was to present an individualised report card on health and fitness to the parents to make them take the issue seriously. This could also eliminate the gender-based differences in sports. 
 
 Majmudar also said play spaces in localities are disappearing due to urban planning. 
 
 Acknowledging that several private schools have no playground, Yadav said recognition would be denied to new buildings with no playgrounds. 
 
 
