Mangaluru: When the city was busy preparing to welcome the New Year, unmindful of the money being spent on celebrations, a   here has set aside the money he would have spent on revelry to bring cheer into the lives of people with disabilities.

 City-based cardiologist Dr Padmanabh Kamath’s heart was in the right place when he purchased four wheelchairs to aid the disabled in two government hospitals. He told TOI: “I’m not against partying or celebrations. But spare a thought for those who are struggling with life due to their disability and a little money can change their lives forever.”
 
 “I was just seeing the New Year party posters… some of the parties cost more than the price of a wheelchair. When a person can afford to spend so much for a few hours of fun, how about donating wheelchairs that can help patients for life?” he said.
 
 The idea of donating wheelchairs struck to Dr Kamath when he found three kids crawling in the corridors to go answer nature’s call during his recent visit to one of the charitable institutions in the city.
 
 “I initially thought the kids were playing, but then the in-charge of the institution apprised me of their condition. They suffered muscular dystrophy; a condition by birth in which muscles are always weak and the individuals do not have enough strength to handle the body weight. Because of this, they can only crawl. With the help of manual wheelchairs, they can move around conveniently since their arms will generally be strong enough,” he said.
 
 “I have been seeing patients for the last 25 years. We cannot do everything we want as doctors. So, I decided to set aside some money for wheelchairs and begin my New Year with a hint of satisfaction,” he said, adding that patients sometimes are compelled to crawl even to toilets.
 
 Wheelchairs on bus stops
 
 Dr Kamath opines there is a desperate need of permanent wheelchairs on bus stops, bus stands and railway stations. “A patient who cannot walk or an aged person need to be lifted from the vehicle to the auto rickshaw. There is a need for wheelchairs here. We need not wait for the government. The public can take this up on their own,” he said, adding that the issue is addressed only in airports as mostly the rich travel by aircraft.
 
 He says though there are a lot of institutions that need wheelchairs, they cannot be bought since they come at a premium. Dr Kamath observes this is where the wealthy class should lend its helping hands. He hopes his gesture inspires at least a few to be proactive towards addressing issues that have plagued the society.
 
 Dr Kamath will donate the wheelchairs to the District Wenlock Government Hospital and Lady Goschen Hospital on Monday. 
 
 
