Akash.Wadhwa@timesgroup.com
In Lucknow to judge the UP auditions of fbb Colors Femina Miss India 2018 co powered by Sephora and Rajnigandha Pearls, on Sunday,  , Peter England Mr India World 2017, seemed quite excited to be on the other side of the table. “From being judged, to judging now, I have come a long way,” smiled Jitesh as we caught up with him for a tete-a-tete and photo op at the   in Gomti Nagar. He adds, "It was nice to see that more than 150 girls had come from different parts of the state for the auditions. The girls were so well groomed. They came so well prepared in all spheres – be the way they were presenting themselves to their confidence level. UPites are now no less than people in the Metros when it comes to participating in pageants. Also, now that we already have two Miss Indias from the state –   and   – it was a task to look for someone who is as good as them and someone who can bring back the crown to UP."
 Jitesh had a great time while getting clicked for us at Janeshwar Mishra Park in Gomti Nagar. "Even though I am from Lucknow, I didn’t know that there is such a huge park here which also has an aeroplane! I was pleasantly surprised to shoot in the park. Lucknow is really growing in leaps and bounds."
  
  Jitesh Singh Deo, Peter England Mr India World 2017 at Janeshwar Mishra Park, Gomti Nagar, in Lucknow (BCCL/ Farhan Ahmad Siddiqui)
 
 It’s been several months to Jitesh's win at the Mr India, and the Lucknow boy says that things have now changed completely for him post the win. "A lot of things have changed in my life now. Firstly, I was among those people who used to admire other people, now I am being admired. So this thing has come with a lot of pressure to be good in all the spheres as I have a lot of people following me now. Also, since I am surrounded by a lot pf professionals who look after my look, my diet, my makeup,etc, so day by day I am improving," he says. 
 During his visit to Lucknow this time Jitesh also went to his school as a chief guest for a film festival being organised there. "It was really a proud moment for me to go back to my school as a chief guest. Lighting the lamp with the founder of my school, Jagdish Gandhi ji was something that I had never dreamt of. I had a sense of deja vu sitting in the front row and watching that stage where I had performed as a kid,” shared Jitesh, adding, “However, the most interesting part about the film festival was my interaction with hundreds of students who were inquisitive to know about my journey."
 A civil engineer, Jitesh has also been doing his bit to contribute towards society. "I recently raised funds for the education of two kids in Mumbai. These are underprivileged kids so I did my bit to help them study. I am now working extensively to provide education to the kids who are from financially weak backgrounds. In Lucknow too, I am doing a project related to Beti Bachao Beti Padho for which I will be back by the end of this month," shared Jitesh. 
 — Akash.Wadhwa@timesgroup.com
 
 
