Chandigarh:   has become the first woman cricketer from Chandigarh to make it to the Indian team.

 The 20-year-old is part of the Indian ODI squad for the tour to South Africa. The team will play three ODIs as part of the ICC Women’s Championship in February. The ODI series will be followed by a five-match T20 series.
 
 Chandigarh over the years has produced a number of cricketers — Kapil Dev, Ashok Malhotra, Yograj Singh, Chetan Sharma, Dinesh Mongia and Yuvraj Singh, but Taniya’s achievement is unparalleled.
 
 Taniya, who set the women’s Challenger Trophy this year on fire with her stroke play and impeccable wicket-keeping skills, said, “My ultimate dream was to be part of the national team and represent the country for a considerable length of time. I always wanted to wear that blue jersey. I will try to make the most of the opportunity. I am striving for excellence, nothing less.” Her team India Blue had won the Challenger Trophy.
 
 Taniya looks up to swashbuckling Harmanpreet Kaur, who has been named the vice-captain for the tour, and Virat Kohli. She watches a lot of their videos. It’s the passion of the two Ks that strikes out for her. “I love the attitude and competitive nature of these two cricketers on the field. It is not arrogance, but just passion,” Taniya said. “I am a stroke player and I like to hit the ball. And, these two players have a similar style. I try to imbibe their good qualities,” she said.
 
 Taniya started playing cricket at the age of 8 under Yuvraj Singh father Yograj Singh’s guidance. “He was a hard taskmaster. He helped me become disciplined in both life and the sport. Later, RP sir polished by skills. I would like to thank all my coaches from the bottom of my heart,” Taniya said.
 
 R P Singh, the coach of Punjab women’s cricket team, was thrilled to hear the news. “It was always around the corner. I am confident that she’ll be a big name in the coming years,” he said. “She missed out on the World Cup narrowly, as the national selectors preferred the more experienced Sushma Verma. She was kept as a standby wicketkeeper for the tournament, but because of her competitive nature, she has made it to the national squad,” he said.
 
 Taniya’s father Sanjay Bhatia, who works as a general manager in Central Bank of India in Sector 44, Chandigarh, said, “I am unable to control my emotions. My daughter has made me proud, I could not fulfil my dreams of playing cricket, but I am glad that I will live my dreams through her. Her hard work has paid off.” “She learnt her early cricket lessons at the DAV Senior Secondary School Academy in Sector 8. Yograj Singh was her first coach. And I think he is the architect of her cricketing career.”
 
 Her mother Sapna Bhatia has also played a pivotal role in shaping her career. “My wife has been a pillar of strength to her. I had to travel a lot because of my job. Since the time I got her enrolled in the DAV academy, she used to go with her to her practice sessions every day,” Sanjay said.
 
 KNOW TANIYAFull Name | Taniya Bhatia
 
 Born | November 28, 1997, Chandigarh
 
 Batting style | Right-hand bat
 
 Started playing at the age of 8
 
 First coach | Yograj Singh
 
 First cricket academy | DAV Senior Secondary School, Sector 8
 
 First breakthrough | Selected for the women’s India ‘A’ team against New Zealand in 2015
 
 Idols | Virat Kohli and Harmanpreet Kaur
 
 School | St Anne’s Convent, Sector 32, Chandigarh
 
 College | MCM DAV College, Sector 36, Chandigarh
 
 Attended camp under More
 
 Tania Bhatia was among the six wicketkeepers, including Sushma Verma, to be part of a special training camp under former India wicketkeeper-batsman Kiran More’s supervision at the National Cricket Academy in November 2017. Bhatia’s agility behind the stumps gave her the edge.
 
 
