 2017 Manushi Chhillar’s Delhi visits have always been special for her as she gets time to spend with her family here. But what made her recent visit to the city different from the others was that she was travelling with six continent winners to spread awareness on   as part of her Beauty With A Purpose tour. Manushi and the winners from different parts of the world met school students and many others to talk about the importance of menstrual hygiene. After almost a day-and-a-half of travelling in the city, the team got together for a dinner at the  , hospitality partner. For the guests who attended the dinner, it was indeed a special occasion to be with "some of the most beautiful and intelligent women on the planet."

  
  HUGS ALL AROUND! Annie Diana Evans, Solange Johnson Sinclair, Stephanie Jayne Hill, Manushi Chhillar, Magline Jeruto and Ha Eun Kim
 
 
 
 For most continent winners, it was their first trip to India. Talking about her experience in India, Stephanie Jayne Hill, Miss World Europe, said, "My experience here has been incredible. I always wanted to visit Delhi, and now that I am here, I feel so wonderful. I wanted to see as much Delhi as possible, but we had limited time, so I am definitely going to come back soon to explore the city. I loved the architecture here and I got a very warm welcome from the people here. Some events we attended were in buildings that I was told by people were built by the British. It is a part of our history and it was so lovely to find that connect here."
 Ha Eun Kim, Miss World Asia, said that she was glad to meet the External Affairs Minister  . "We had a chance to meet the Indian   and I was impressed with the fact that she is a woman. Our foreign minister is a woman too. When you see women taking up such strong positions in the society, you feel proud to be a woman yourself," she said and added that a visit to the Taj Mahal is on her bucket list and that she will return to India to visit it.
 
  
  Alma Andrea Meza Carmona
 
  
  Ankur Bhatia and Smriti Bhatia
 
  
  Dependra Pathak, Special CP, Delhi Police and Geeta Pathak
 
  
  Nalin Gupta
 
