For almost three hours,   pinned   to the baseline and made him play. Corner to corner, the odd angled ball, the slower one, the softer shot. Nadal, 31, grunted, Cilic, 6 ft 6, but light on his feet, was ready for the grind. The   Arena rocked to the rhythm of their range. The   quarterfinal was a battle royal.

 
 The Spaniard, a 16-time major winner, led by two sets to one and looked to be in charge of the fourth.
 
 Then Nadal’s body, bruised, broken and often just patched together by a will that will not yield, ripped at the frayed edges, this time it was his right thigh. He took a medical timeout in the fourth set, the doctor and physio were on court, he popped a pill and tried to punch through the pain. His mind was calling, but his body wasn’t responding.
 
 After trying for 18 points in the deciding fifth set, the combative Spaniard threw in the towel, literally. Wincing, he informed the chair umpire, before congratulating his opponent.
 
 Cilic, the sixth-seed, moved into his second semifinals here with a 3-6, 6-3, 6-7 (5-7), 6-2, 2-0 win in 3 hours and 47-minutes. The Croat will face the big-hitting Briton Kyle Edmunds in the semifinals on Friday.
 
 It all appeared be to going Nadal’s way at the start, he was leading by a set and a break. Then, in the fifth game, Cilic, 29, was given a time violation by chair umpire Eva Asderaki when down double breakpoints. Cilic dropped serve and let off steam which seemed to help him. He started playing much better, winning four straight games to level set scores.
 
 The 72-minute third set was a tightly contested affair. Nadal won two successive points at 5-all, the first when the Croat’s thunderous forehand landed just long, to close out the set. Then, just as easily, the momentum swung the other way. Cilic broke in the fourth game.
 
 Nadal, who appeared to be a step off the pace at this stage, took a medical time out at the change of ends, complaining of a pain in his leg. He returned to hold serve, but Cilic broke in the eighth game to level set scores.
 
 
 
 Edmund, the world No.49, dominated with his forehand, blasting 46 winners, 18 of which came from his stronger flank, for a 6-4, 3-6, 6-3, 6-4 win over a fading Grigor Dimtrov. Curiously the Johannesburg-born 23-year-old, who dabbled with cricket before going with  , made 48 unforced errors, 31 of which came from his forehand side. Luckily for Edmund, his opponent’s nerve shook in pivotal points, while his own held true.
 
 Second seed   withstood a fightback from Spain’s unseeded Carla Suarez Navarro to stutter into the semi-finals of the Australian Open 6-0, 6-7 (3/7), 6-2 on Tuesday. “I knew it was going to be tough against her because in the first set a lot of games were very close,” said the Dane.
 
 
 
 Fifth seeds in the mixed-doubles Rohan Bopanna and Timea Babos clinched a 6-4, 6-4 win over American Vania King and Croat Franko Skugor in 64 minutes.
 
