NEW DELHI: The Gujarat poll was a prestige battle for PM   and   chief   and required full time attention. With Modi busy with his official chores, it fell to Shah to work out the nitty-gritties of BJP's answer to Congress's ambitious challenge to dislodge the ruling party with the help of Hardik Patel. But even as he slogged tirelessly to save the saffron citadel, Shah found time to visit   many times over.

 
 That is Shah for you. The man who, like a creative playmaker in football, sets up the game for his chief striker Modi to provide the killer touch. In the case of Karnataka, Shah visited 28 of the 30 districts, travelled over 45,000 km and addressed 70 rallies and roadshows.
 
 Known for his belief in the the power of the 'Hindu civil society', he visited 40 shrines of different communities and met with dozens of organisations - from women's self-help groups to organisations working for fishermen and silk producers.
 
 But while he wooed outsides, Shah faced a far bigger task in putting his own own house in order.
 
 Feuding among senior BJP leaders was the main reason why the party failed to build upon the breakthrough a decade ago when it succeeded in wresting power in Karnataka, the first state to go saffron in what was until then the impregnable South for the Hindi belt party. It led to a split, with B S Yeddyurappa, the most popular leader in its ranks, to walk out and float his own outfit.
 
 The promise that 2008 had held out appeared to have been snuffed out in five years, with the party crashing to a humiliating defeat. The return of Yeddyurappa and Dalit leader B S Sriramulu instantly boosted the party and helped it notch 17 of the 28 Lok Sabha seats in 2014, attesting to Yeddyurappa's importance as well as the damage his detractors had wrought on the party by hounding him out.
 
 But the unity that helped Modi in 2014 swiftly evaporated and threatened to sink the party again in the 2018 polls. When his pleas for solidarity did not work, Shah switched gears, donning the hat of law enforcer. He sent out a message to all the leaders who mattered that he would prefer to field a new slate of candidates rather than go with a bunch who had failed to subordinate their selfish interests to the party's need to snatch Karnataka from Congress.
 
 That message had be repeated several times although Shah did not shy away from giving to the satraps their rightful due. So while Yeddyurappa was projected as CM candidate in defiance of the wishes of several who pointed to his "tainted" image, Shah would not give the Lingayat leader the final say in distribution of tickets. He put his foot down when the former CM insisted on a ticket for his son Raghvendra and did not budge when nearly a dozen party candidates demanded a re-think - a firmness that gave BJP an advantage over Congress since it could not resist the pressure from its leaders for tickets for their offspring. On the campaign trail, Modi exploited the opening to dub the Congress as a party of dynasts.
 
 
