NEW DELHI: A   who   into a   was   by cyber crooks of around  .

 Senior police officers said that the woman, who lives in east Delhi’s Madhu Vihar, created a profile on a popular matrimonial website in December. While browsing, she got a request from a man who introduced himself as Rajesh Ahuja, a   posted in Syria. He said he was from Mumbai.
 
 As the two started conversing, he told her via WhatsApp that he had been assigned to go to Syria for six weeks as a part of a team of doctors from the United Nations. He promised to marry her after he returned.
 
 Ahuja contacted the woman after a week and told her that he purchased a   for her. She refused to take it but he told her to keep it till his return to India due to the fear of losing it there.
 
 The woman, who works in a private company, told police that the man gave her the tracking ID of a parcel containing the ring. She received an email from the courier company telling her that the parcel contained jewellery worth 52,000 dollars and that she needed to pay custom duty amounting to Rs 58,000. The victim transferred the money into the accused’s account. 
 
 Afterwards, the woman was told to pay a security amount worth Rs 7,98,000. The accused told her that the amount would be refunded after two days. She hesitated at first and told him that she didn’t have the necessary amount. The accused told her that he would pay Rs 1 lakh and she could pay the rest. The woman then took money from her family and transferred it to the accused’s account. 
 
 She got suspicious after she got an email where she was asked to pay Rs 3.98 lakh more for a ‘clearance certificate’ from the ‘anti-terror department’. Later, a woman who alleged that she was from the customs department at Mumbai also asked her to pay the money, following which she approached the police.
 
 DCP (east) Omvir Singh Bishnoi said police have registered a case. The details about the creator of the profile on the matrimonial website are also being sought and the phone numbers and email IDs used to contact the woman are being tracked.
 
 
