The Kerala University (KU) Youth Festival kicked off five days after the release of the campus film Poomaram. While the movie had a happy ending, KU fete, which concluded on March 24, was marred by a controversy. This was because   of Christ Nagar College, Maranalloor, and   of Gregorian College of Advanced Studies, Sreekaryam, who were initially adjudged toppers in kuchipudi and kathaprasangam, respectively, lost to actress   S, when the appellate committee published fresh results.

 While the committee once again cancelled the results due to the outcry by the students alleging that Mahalakshmi had “manipulated the judgment using her celebrity status”, we talk to all the parties involved to get a low-down on what happened.
 
 Slamming rumours that the dancer-turned-actress had any say in the results, her mother and classical singer   says that Mahalakshmi made the appeal only “because she was confident about her performance”. “Mahalakshmi is a final year English Literature student and this was her last youth festival as a college student. She had initially only enrolled herself for two group competitions, but at the request of the college authorities and her friends, she participated in seven solo events too. In bharatanatyam, she came third with one point. In kathaprasangam, mimicry and folk dance, she was adjudged second with three points each. She emerged winner for nangyarkothu with five points. In kuchipudi, there were 44 contestants but she was not in the first three positions when results were announced. She was the most confident about kuchipudi and kathaprasangam and that’s why she filed the appeal, which is her right,” says Sreelatha, adding that Mahalakshmi always scored first or second in classical dances and other individual items.
 
 Amid all the hue and cry, Mahalakshmi posted a video on her social networking page, complaining about the character assassination she faced from other participants after the appellate committee announced the results. In the video, Mahalakshmi, who was the Kalathilakam in 2016, said, “I didn’t change the results overnight. I already had 15 points from various events. Like every student, I also appealed the results of the events for which I was confident of winning. I request people to not speculate, especially when there is no proof that I manipulated the authorities.”
 
 Meanwhile, Divya Vijayan, second year BA Journalism student, says she has no qualms sharing the first prize of kuchipudi with Mahalakshmi. “The appellate committee on the final day announced the change in results. If an appeal is made, then the video of the respective students’ and the winner’s performance will be evaluated by three other judges and the result will be finalised. If the appellant deserves the first prize then it must be shared with the previous winner or the pervious winner be given second place at least,” she says.
 
 Divya though did not feature in the top 3 after the appellate committee announced the results. “They eliminated me completely. When I questioned them, they said they will announce me in second position if I tell the media I came second. They later cancelled those results and stuck with the original decision. However, I am yet to receive any certificate,” she says.
 
 Merin Mary Philip also shares a similar experience. “I had only participated in two events and kathaprasangam was a sure shot win for me. I personally do not have any grudge towards Mahalakshmi. That said, I will fight for my right because I am confident about my performance. I also felt sad when the organisers didn’t officially notify me about the change in results,” says Merin, who player Prithvi in Poomaram.
 
 When we contacted the appellate committee, one of its members, on condition of anonymity, says, “We received around 200 appeals, challenging the results of several events. We recently found that five competitions including kuchipudi and kathaprasangam had inaccurate judgments. We will analyse the issue in detail and will take action soon.”
 
