LUCKNOW: The CAG report on the sale of 21 sugar mills during BSP rule in 2010 has held senior government officers responsible for ignoring glaring anomalies in bid documents to help a cartel of   owners.

  
  
 
 They gobbled a large chunk of mills up for sale at a price much below their values, making the state suffer a huge loss, the report says.
 
 Scrutiny of bid documents clearly shows cartelisation and proxy bidding, but the disinvestment committee, manned by senior IAS officers overlooked these facts, the CAG report says. “Multiple bidders had common directors, common shareholders, common addresses, common email IDs and phone numbers, but these glaring facts were ignored. These interlinked companies had formed powerful cartel to buy 21 sugar mills at a dirt cheap price,” the report, tabled in assembly during the previous SP rule, adds.
 
 Despite a laid down procedure and a method to scrutinize bid documents, top IAS officers of chief secretary and principal secretary ranks didn’t follow it and allowed the private bidders to literally walk away with sugar mills, the report says.
 
 
 
 
 In a disparaging remark, it adds: "There was a lack of competition which affected the realization of fair value of sugar mills. In respect of these mills only Rs 166.85 core could be realised against expected price of Rs 291 crore. This resulted in short realization of Rs 124.70 crore." 
 
 "IAS officers in various committees formed for the disinvestment of the sugar mills of   (UPSSCL) and Uttar Pradesh Rajya Chini Avam Ganna Vikas Nigam Limited (UPRCGVN) wilfully chose to overlook even the net worth of bidders. The core group of secretaries for disinvestment (CGD) did not look into the fact that after purchasing the sugar mills how some of the companies would fund it as their net worth was far below the cost of the sugar mill they were bidding for. It seems a good number of bidders were proxy for other major groups to take away the sugar mills, on paper for themselves, but in reality for their masters," the report says.
 
 The report highlights on page 34 (para 5.2) that two firms which bid for the mills had the same address of New Friends Colony in Delhi mentioned on bid documents. Not only this, even the demand draft of Rs 50,000 attached with the bid documents were issued by the same bank on July 16, 2009 and bore the consecutive serial numbers - 528450 and 528451. The bid documents of these two firms also had consecutive serial number - 119636 and 119637 - of bank guarantee forms issues by the same bank on the same date.
 
 When the state government replied to the CAG that there was no opportunity to know about bank guarantee at the time of evaluation of bids, the CAG refused to accept the excuses of the government stating everything was available on the records of the companies.
 
 Not only the bank drafts, bank guarantees, directors and the share holders were common, the CAG investigation found even the common address, phone numbers, e-mail ID and correspondence address of  , New Delhi, mentioned by two bidders in their EOI cum RFQ and financial bid was same. Besides, address and the phone number mentioned on the letter head of one bidder was the same as the work unit of another bidder.
 
 The CAG report highlights that in contravention to these guidelines of disinvestment, certificates depicting the paying capacity of the applications were not demanded by the management form the bidders. Two firms made payments which far exceeded their net worth but the management made no effort to satisfy itself about the source of funds of buyers and ensure fairness in bidding process to rule out its participation as a proxy of other bidders.
 
 Three bidders though did not meet the net worth criteria fixed on June 18, 2010 remained in the fray and purchased one, four and three mills respectively. Thus these bidders were unduly favoured by reducing the net worth criteria further to Rs two crore in July 2010," the report says.
 
 
