TOI looks at the top performers for India at the recently concluded Commonwealth Games in Gold Cost, Australia.
 
 
  (gold, men’s javelin throw)
 The former World U-20 champion won his first medal and clearly looks good for more in future. Sharpening his skills under the watchful eyes of German Uwe Hohn, Chopra showed supreme confidence in his debut Games to pip the field by a distance.
 
 
  (silver, women’s discus), Navjeet Dhillon (bronze, women’s discus).
 
 
 
 
 Saina Nehwal (gold, women’s singles)
 How can Saina lose to a young Sindhu? She asked the questions and found the answers. The new-look Saina looks leaner, is tough to beat at net, and is fitter, thanks to her new physio Christopher.
 
 
 Srikanth Kidambi (silver, men’s singles)
 
 
 Vikas Krishan (gold, men’s 75kg)
 Battling back after a brief bout of illness, the southpaw went from strength to strength and mostly won unanimous verdicts. However, the pressure of winning a bout in just three rounds is getting to Vikas and he is now thinking of going pro.
 
 
  (gold, women’s 45-48kg)
 
 
 Tejaswini Sawant (gold, women’s 50m rifle prone)
 It has been a long time since former world champion Tejaswini Sawant grabbed headlines. She may be competing with rivals 17 years younger, but now she wants to keep going till the Tokyo Olympics.
 
 
  (gold, women’s 25m pistol), Manu Bhaker (gold, women’s 10m air pistol), Anish (gold, men’s 25m rapid fire pistol).
 
 
 Manika Batra (gold, women’s singles)
 Manika Batra loves to face challenges. In the women’s singles her first challenge came from the World No. 4 and she swatted that aside with ease. She was up against another Singaporean in the final, who ran up a big lead in the first game. Again Manika turned on the after-burners and soon the gold medal was on her neck.
 
 
  (bronze, men’s singles)
 
 
  (gold, women’s 48kg)
 It was Mirabai who triggered India’s gold rush at the Games. Chanu set the first Games record in Gold Coast and got a special award from the official timekeepers – a sparkling new watch. From there on it was mostly good times for the Indian lifters at the Carrara Sports Arena.
 
 
 Sushil Kumar (gold, men’s freestyle 74kg)
 There was controversy during the last Nationals when Sushil Kumar’s rivals gave him walkovers. The   rivals should have also considered the same as Sushil walloped one after the another in no time. The final was the best. It lasted all of 80 seconds.
 
 
  (gold, women’s freestyle 50kg)
 
