GURUGRAM: The   in Palam Vihar’s Block J has been reeling under absence of power supply since March 27. The electricity department cut off power after the school failed to pay up its dues, amounting to Rs 61,000. The school is also facing a water crisis, as it uses a motor to draw groundwater for drinking and other uses.

 The school has no funds to pay the Rs 61,000 bill, according to headmistress  . “Every year in March, the school gets Rs 3,000 as electricity funds from the education department, which used to be enough till two years ago. But how can I pay this huge bill with that meagre amount this year? We wrote to the education department on March 31, but they are yet to respond.”
 
 She added, “The department paid the bill without fuss last year. I don’t know why they have delayed it this year.”
 
 This is the second time the school, which has 140 students in classes from I to V, received such an inflated bill. Last year, it received a power bill of Rs 75,000, said school authorities. There is some problem with the electricity meter, Devi said. “We know we don’t consume as much electricity. The real problem lies with the meter being installed outside the school complex. Someone might have tampered with it, ‘hooked’ a line, and we’re having to pay for that,” she said.
 
 With no power, students are the worst hit. Apart from being forced to study in the heat without fans, students have taken to bringing drinking water from their homes, as there is no water in school.
 
 Monika Dhorka, a teacher at the school, said, “We have kids less than 10 years of age studying here. The fans are not running, there is no light, and I can’t force them to sit in the sun. A motor installed in the school premises was used to draw water, but now, there is no water in the school. The worst part is that washrooms don’t have any water.”
 
 Speaking to TOI,  , block elementary education officer, said: “I have received the school’s complaint, and it’s a serious issue. The allocation of funds is done from Chandigarh. I am hopeful of the funds being released next week.”
 
 
