Gurgaon: The city will host a one-of-a-kind   league from February 16. An initiative of Para Sports Foundation, a non-profit outfit, the three-day extravaganza will witness the clash of four teams, Delhi Sultans, UP Strikers, Chandigarh Lions and South Warriors, at Lancers International School, DLF5. 

 The tournament has been conceptualised on the lines of Indian Premier League (IPL) and will have matches of 15 overs but the final match will have 20 overs. 
 
 Gulshan Kumar, Vinod Thakur and Abhay Pratap Singh are some of the noted players who will participate in the contest. In 2011, Kumar broke the Guinness World Records by spinning his wheelchair the maximum times in a single minute. He is also a classical dancer. Vinod Thakur was a contestant in Season 2 of India’s Got Talent in 2010 and Abhay Pratap Singh is a war veteran. 
 
 Kumar, who will play for Delhi Sultans, said, “Cricket inculcates self-discipline. Playing cricket gives a message to others that we are equals.” Thakur from UP Strikers said, “Cricket is a popular sports. This is an excellent idea for cricket fans in the city.” UP Strikers’ Singh said, “I am excited to participate in the tournament and can’t wait to see the crowd cheering for us.”
 
 Becoming a wheelchair cricketer was not an easy task for them. “The government or other sports authorities have not done anything for our training. All of us took up cricket on our own and came together to play the game we love,” said Thakur.
 
 The cricketers not only face discrimination when it comes to training, no cricket ground welcomes them too. “The availability of grounds to play and practice is the biggest challenge. We don’t get grounds easily because people think wheelchairs will spoil the pitch,” said Kumar. 
 
 Organiser Sarvesh Kumar Tiwari, president, Para Sports Foundation, said, “This tournament will provide a platform to   to showcase their talent.” 
 
 “We expect better support from the government and other authorities. Wheelchair cricket should be promoted the way normal cricket is,” said Singh.
 
 
