AMBALA: In a bid to resolve the various issues faced by private schools regarding government policies, Sharandeep Kaur Brar, Ambala deputy commissioner (DC) on Sunday constituted a four-member committee. The committee comprises of Ambala city sub-divisional magistrate (SDM), district education officer, president of   ( ) and the block education officer of the concerned school.

 
 
 The private schools in state had been demanding reimbursement for students admitted under Rule 134-A of   state, which stipulates admitting students under economically weaker section (EWS) quota. The National Independent Schools Alliance (NISA) has been demanding the release of funds to private schools for students admitted under Rule 134-A. But, since the rules have been implemented, no funds have been released to the independent schools. NISA has also asked for involvement of private schools in detecting parents who have submitted the fake income certificates to avail the admission for their children under the law.
 
 There have been m0ore than eight cases in   and Ambala district, where fake income certificates have been submitted. These incidents have been brought to the fore by schools after enquiring about parents’ income status independently. The school authorities have also registered the complaints against the parents at fault with the police. In a prompt act, the DC of Ambala issued orders to the office of SDM to constitute a panel at the earliest. The committee has been constituted by SDM, which will handle issues pertaining to private schools in the district.
 
 
 SDM has also ordered tehsildar to issue the guidelines to field patwaris and kanungos to verify the income status of the applicants seeking income certificates personnaly to avoid any discrepancy to avail admissions under Rule 134-A of the state.
 
 
 Tikka Ram, tehsildar, Ambala City revealed that on May 18 he had directed field officials to verify the income status of applicants after making a personally paying a visit to their residences.
 
 “We have prescribed some important guidelines which need to be followed with strict compliance for verifying the actual family income of the applicant to the field officials.
 
 Satinder Siwatch, SDM, Ambala City, said, “As per the orders, a committee was set up to handle the problems faced by the independent schools. We have also urged private schools to highlight the fake cases with the office. Investigation of the reported fake income cases will be done by the committee and if any parents are found to be producing bogus documents for admissions under Rule 134-A, action will be initiated against them as per law.”
 
