MUMBAI: A builder operating largely in   has been arrested on charges of taking bookings for flats in a highrise when he did not have permission to build beyond seven floors and duping investors. 

 Hifzur Rahman Patel, a partner of Patel Developers, was arrested on Wednesday by the housing unit of the Economic Offences Wing (EOW) for criminal breach of trust and cheating and under the Maharashtra Ownership Flats Act (Mofa). The police said they had found that Patel had siphoned off Rs 2.3 crore.
 
 The arrest came on a complaint by Prasad Pawaskar, who works as a human resources manager in a multinational company. Pawaskar signed a sale deed with Patel in 2014 and booked a flat at   project in Malad (West). He paid Rs 54 lakh, which was 75% of the flat's total cost.
 
 Pawaskar's uncle Anand Pawaskar had alerted him about the project. Anand is a resident of Hava Hira cooperative housing society on S V Road. In 2013, the society, consisting 27 members, went in for redevelopment and tied up with Patel Developers.
 
 "As per the brochure, Patel Developers claimed they were constructing an 11-storey building consisting of 61 flats, each with a carpet area of 480 sq ft. Of them, 27 would be for the existing tenants and the remaining 34 would be sold in the open market," said a police officer.
 
 According to the sale agreement, the developer was to complete the project by 2015 and hand over possession. But construction had halted by 2015, prompting Pawaskar to inquire. Patel's partners told him that they had got   permission to construct only till seven floors and were waiting to buy Transfer of Development Rights (TDR) which would enable them to add floors.
 
 Shocked, Pawaskar began digging and found that Patel had taken similar bookings from several others and duped them. During investigations, the police found Patel had sold 23 flats and collected Rs 8.5 crore. It was also that Patel had accepted more than 20% of the flat value only by showing the brochure, a step not allowed under Mofa.
 
 The police are in the process of recording the statements of the other victims in the case. The police said they arrested Patel since he had signed the sale agreements. They are now looking at the roles of his partners - Zakaria Patel, Sayeed Patel and Sadik Patel. Patel is in police custody till April 18.
 
 
