Visakhapatnam: It was introduced as a special train to clear the holiday rush in October last year, but such has been its demand and popularity, that railways have been forced to extend the service twice. Now, there is a growing demand to make the ‘IT Train’ — as 06579/80 that runs between Vizag and Yasvantpur Junction (Bangalore) is popularly called — a regular service, as its ‘special’ run is supposed to end on February 25.

 Many IT employees from the city who work in Bengaluru, also called the Silicon Valley of India, have appealed to railway authorities through tweets to regularise the special train. 
 
 “The train’s timings are convenient for IT employees and general public alike, as it starts from Vizag on Sunday afternoon and reaches Bengaluru on Monday morning. The train starts its return journey from Yasvantpur on Friday evening and reaches Vizag on Saturday afternoon. It suits us. The railways should make it a regular weekly train,” said R Vamsidhar from Vizag, who works with an IT company in Bengaluru.
 
 Another IT employee, M Pradyumna, said the train mostly runs packed as the demand is huge from both sides. “The waiting list is often above 100. The train’s main selling point are its timings, both departure and arrival, both onward and return. There is no other direct train with such convenient timings between Vizag and Bengaluru. We want the railway authorities to make it as a regular service. They should listen to our pleas at the earliest as summer is on its way and we can book tickets early,” Pradyumna said.
 
 He added that the train reaches Bengaluru one-two hours late due to its ‘special’ status. “Once it is regularised, such delays will end. We hope they add more coaches too,” he said.
 
 When contacted, Waltair divisional railway manager MS Mathur said: “It is a special train but the demand has been very good. The division is not the right authority to introduce train services but we have proposed to the authorities concerned for its continuance.”
 
 
