MEERUT: A 14-year-old girl died on Thursday after she set herself on fire, unable to handle the harassment she was subjected to by four men who had been stalking her for months. 

 The girl, a student of Class VIII, first dropped out of school. Then she gave up her tuition classes. Finally, she killed herself. Her family claimed that the same men, taking the girl’s silence for acquiescence, had even gangraped her recently, an attack she had kept to herself for days until she could no longer bear the ignominy.
 
  At her   village, barely 15 km from   city, her brother told TOI that the men, all from neighbouring Gawdi, used to torment her as she walked to school from home and then to her tuition classes. “We should’ve known something was wrong when she suddenly left school,” he said. “Then she wouldn’t go for her tuition classes in the evening. These men drove my sister to her death.” In an FIR, the girl’s family stated that she chose to take the extreme step after being violated. She came home on January 6, doused herself with kerosene and set herself on fire. She was hospitalised with 80% burns and died five days later. 
 
  The family has also said that the men, whom cops have now identified as Shobhit, Mohit Kumar, Ankit Singh and  , warned them not to report the matter to police. “Because of that (the threats) we mustered courage to lodge an FIR only after her death,” the brother said, adding, “We were too scared to call the cops. 
 
 Initially, we told our neighbours that she had burnt herself in an accidental fire while cooking. Later, some local organisations came to our support. It was only then that we managed to go to the police with a complaint.” 
 
 An FIR under IPC sections 306 (abetment of suicide), 376D (gangrape) and 511 (punishment for offences punishable with imprisonment for life) has now been filed against the accused. “Of the four, Ankit Singh has been arrested. Raids are being conducted to nab the others,”  , superintendent of police (rural areas), said. 
 
 This comes days after a 16-year-old girl from Bulandshahr was kidnapped on National Highway 91 last week by men passing by in a car who later gang-raped, murdered and dumped her body in a   canal. She, too, was returning home from her tuition classes. 
 
 Chief minster  , during a public programme in Meerut on January 6, had raised concern over the safety of women in UP, asking police to send rapists to “the same place where they are sending gangsters". 
