
 
  
 
  People in Rajasthan know what Congress stands for and there is no ambiguity in their minds on what Congress represents. There is resentment and complete rejection of Vasundhara Ji’s government but at the same time people have also overwhelmingly supported our stand on various issues like farm distress and unemployment. Ek to hota hai ki naraazgi hai sarkar se – but we have also been able to present to people a better viable option. We have won in all 17 assembly segments – 8 each in the two Lok Sabha seats and one assembly seat. The myth that   is very strong in urban centres and they are not penetrable has been smashed by us. Across communities, everyone has supported us. We won the three seats in different geographical areas of the state - Alwar is in the NCR region, Ajmer is in Central Rajasthan and Mandalgarh is in South Rajasthan. There was an unprecedented swing of votes in all these seats which we lost by big margins earlier. Election battles are also fought at the polling stations – we deployed our people at the Panchayats. We won not just against BJP but also the might of the state government.
  
  
 
  That is their internal decision. Given there was no contest and an overwhelming rejection of BJP – morally, Raje must step down. But I also think it is too late for BJP to do anything now as people in Rajasthan have already made up their mind and Congress will come back. There is an old saying – if you sweat in peace time, you don’t bleed in war time. Raje and her cabinet was in Ajmer for just last two weeks, using every trick in the book to manipulate the mandate but you cannot supress the voice of the people. If she had worked in the last four years, she would not have been desperately seeking votes in the last two weeks. People would have voted for her is she had worked. But she did not do any work. Last two weeks of campaigning is not the way now people can win elections. Congress and I have been in election mode for last four years. It has to be a long and sustained reaching out to people that will endear you to the voters. I have been to every district of the state five times and each of the 200 assembly constituencies at least twice and developed an emotional bond with Congress party workers through dharnas, padyatras and lathi-charges.
  
  
 
  Traditionally, the Congress party has never done announcements of a CM face. We all work as a team - it is not about one individual or two or three people – it is collective leadership. Whether it is me or Mr Gehlot, all of us have a singular focus of making the Congress win in December. Who will occupy what position is of little consequence to any of us. The so-called groups in the Congress party, is a propaganda that BJP spreads. Congress has been united, is united and will remain united no matter how hard the BJP tries to create fault-lines when none exist. This is done by BJP to hide its own weaknesses. It is result of the unity in the Congress and the hard work that all of us has put in that we won - in the last four years we have win 6 out of the 8 by-elections in the state. 40 lakh people voted in these by-elections.
  
  
 
  Many communities were humiliated by the state government. Farmers and young people were also dissatisfied – the Raje government is still to come good on its promise for farm loan waiver while   (young teachers and professionals) have been taking out protest marches against the government over their recruitments. Be it low-income group, forward castes or backward – everyone feels the state government does not listen to them. This is a government of arrogance. Corruption and nepotism is also what people do not take kindly to – there was a mining scam and a draconian ordinance.
  
