Ludhiana: The Municipal Corporation of Ludhiana has served a warning notice to the private transporter, managing the operation and maintenance of the Ludhiana   Limited (LCBSL). The department has to recover Rs 3 crore from the transporter through advertisement tax and user charges. The pathetic condition of the bus service is another reason behind the warning notice. 

 However the transporter in a reply to the MC notice has pleaded that he was running the service on heavy losses and he was even ready to pay the dues but before that the MC should exempt him from advertisement charges which was not part of the agreement. The operator Horizon Connect Transways Private Limited has been handling the operation and maintenance of the buses since 2015. 
 
 The MC has even asked the operator to repair 30 unused buses which were lying defunct at the Tajpur Road bus depot, but the operator refused saying it would cost them an exorbitant amount to repair the buses. 
 
 Joint commissioner of MC Satwant Singh said they have issued the warning notice to the transporter. Meanwhile company representatives claimed they did not get support from the authorities and the problem of illegal autos and buses continuous on these routes. As a result, they have to close the routes. They claimed they had requested the management and MC authorities that they should at least revise the bus fares as the fuel rates have increased from Rs 45 to Rs 60 but the fare has not been increased even for once.
 
 Notably, the LCBSL has a total of 120 buses but out of that only 90 buses are plying. Launched in 2011 the city bus service after facing several hiccups is available at seven routes in the city- from bus stand to Chandigarh Road, railway station to Sahnewal, Clock tower to Jalandhar bypass, railway station to Shimlapuri, railway station to Jodhewal Basti, railway station to Meharban and bus stand to Metro. The routes from the bus stand to Hambran Road, bus stand to Ferozepur Road and bus stand to Tajpur Road were shut due to excess movement of auto rickshaws.
 
 
