HYDERABAD: The Hyderabad   will now run trains every seven minutes during peak hours and every eight minutes during non-peak hours on both the Blue and Red Lines of the 30-km-long Miyapur-Ameerpet-Nagole corridor with effect from 6am on April 21, Hyderabad   Rail concessionaire L&T announced on Friday. 

 
  
  
 
 The announcement was made after the   got the official nod for the same from the Commissioner of Metro Railway Safety. While trains in the   stretch were earlier running at a frequency of eight minutes, the frequency of trains in the Nagole-Ameerpet stretch was one every 15 minutes. 
 
  “After checking the functioning of the Communication Based Train Control (CBTC) system, the Commissioner of Metro Railway Safety, Ram Kripal, issued the authorization certificate to adopt the Communication Based Train Control system,” read the statement issued by Larsen & Toubro.
 
 The Red and Blue Line trains at Ameerpet Metro station will also be synchronized to enable smooth and efficient passenger transfer, said Hyderabad Metro officials.
 
 With the increased frequency and speed of trains, the Nagole-Secunderabad stretch can now be covered in 16 minutes while the Nagole to Ameerpet stretch can be covered in 32 minutes. The Nagole to Miyapur stretch can now be covered in a span of 55 minutes, via Metro rail.
 
 The announcement was also made by the state’s municipal administration and urban development (MA&UD) minister, KT Rama Rao, on his official Twitter handle on Friday. “Happy to announce CMRS has cleared the new signalling system & Hyderabad Metro will now run trains every 7 minutes during peak hours & every 8 minutes during non-peak hours on Miyapur -Ameerpet- Nagole stretches from tomorrow 6am onwards,” MA&UD minister tweeted.
 
 Hyderabad Metro Rail Ltd managing director N V S Reddy said the frequency of trains will be increased further, based on the demand. “This augurs well for Metro Rail commuters and the frequency will be further increased as per demand in future,” Reddy said.
 
 KVB Reddy, managing director and CEO, Larsen & Toubro Metro Rail (Hyderabad) Limited (LTMRHL) said: “We are committed to provide the best in class metro rail services to the citizens of Hyderabad and this is a step in that direction. I thank team Larsen & Toubro Metro Rail (Hyderabad) Limited and its partners, who have worked incessantly to make this happen.”
 
