NEW DELHI: The   ( ) has decided to offer security consultancy to five-star hotels so that they can be prepared to deal with 26/11 type terror attacks.

 The central paramilitary force, which is celebrating its 49th raising day, has already prepared a blueprint in this regard. It has studied the incidents of 26/11 Mumbai attacks at Taj Mahal and Trident hotels, and an attack using explosives-laden dump truck in front of the Marriott hotel in Pakistan's capital Islamabad the same year.
 
 It soon plans to write to five-star hotels across the country proposing to render the services of its special unit and experts and provide specific consultancy on security issues to them, said sources. As part of the consultancy, the CISF would tell the client where to install CCTV cameras, deploy security staff, how to check access control, train the hotel security staff and install emergency response gadgets at their premises. The service would come with a fee in the range of Rs 4-5 lakh for each luxury hotel once the consultancy was done and CISF experts surveyed the premises.
 
 Earlier, CISF had refused to provide security to five-star hotels, but officials said that it is ready to provide consultancy. CISF has recently provided security consultancy to 28 private schools after a seven-year-old boy was murdered inside Ryan International School in Gurgaon last year.
 
 Some of the prominent schools which are in talks with the CISF for this service are the Doon School in Dehradun, La Martiniere in Kolkata, Scindia School in Gwalior, Bharatiya Vidya Bhawan in Delhi and Gaurs International School in Greater Noida. Meanwhile, CISF said at its annual press conference on Friday that it might “look into” the accounts of the Delhi airport operator, DIAL, to find out why the dues — over Rs 750 crore —were not paid to it for the security services. “We have suggested that we would like to sort of look into their (DIAL's) accounts and find out how much is earned through PSF (passenger security fee) vis-a-vis the deployment charges they are bound to pay (to the CISF). That is a work in progress,” CISF additional director general (airport sector) M A Ganapathy said on the eve of the force's 49th raising day. 
 
