THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: State government has welcomed the Union human resources development ministry's suggestion for a NEET model common entrance examination for engineering admission.

 After the Union ministry put forth its suggestion in this regard,   (AICTE) sought the response of all state governments on the proposal for a common entrance examination for admission to engineering colleges across the country.
 
 "We are of the opinion that there should be an entrance test for screening students seeking admission to engineering colleges. The state is not averse to a NEET model common entrance examination, if the same is organised flawlessly," said principal secretary (higher education) Usha Titus.
 
 AICTE vice-chairman MP   had said last week in Ahmedabad that the council, if it gets the final clearance from the Union government, would introduce NEET model entrance examination for engineering admissions in 2019. 
 
 However, state government believes that the plan for a common entrance examination from 2019 would not be practical. "The 2019 target doesn't seem practical. It may take at least a couple of years to fructify the idea," added officials.
 
  Self-financing Engineering College Managements' Association too has welcomed the common entrance proposal. "The NEET model common entrance would bring out a sort of branding for engineering colleges. It would improve the quality of education and also clear many grey areas with regard to the total number of seats in deemed universities and admissions," said association secretary  .
 
 The association has been batting for the freedom to choose candidates to management seats in engineering colleges in Kerala. The private engineering colleges mooted this very proposal this year, in view of the 'soft' stand taken by AICTE with regard to entrance test for admission to engineering colleges during the upcoming academic year.
 
 However, the state government did not heed the demand for 'no/separate entrance examination' for admission to management seats in engineering colleges in the state.
 
 However, contradictions in the AICTE stand - towards entrance examination for engineering admission - were also pointed out by some stakeholders in the engineering education sector. "AICTE, which now speaks highly about the need for a common entrance test for engineering admission from 2019, has maintained a deliberate silence over the need for an entrance test for admission to engineering colleges in its handbook for 2018," they said. Usually the handbook mentions the entrance test for admissions, but this year that part has been omitted from the book.
 
 
