Kolkata: Professor Trilokeshwar   was born in October 1961. In the Puja Special issue in the revival year of ‘Sandesh’, the magazine synonymous with movie maestro Satyajit Ray’s family. ‘Sandesh’ was reborn in May 1961.

 “For the initial issues of ‘Sandesh’, Baba wrote translations of Edward Lear’s verses,” says Sandip, Ray’s son. “One of the realms of literature which deeply attracted him was science fiction (Sci-Fi). He would voraciously lap up works by Arthur C Clarke, Ray Bradbury, Isaac Asimov, John Wyndham. In fact, he was more interested in Sci-Fi than detective fiction. Baba was a fan of Arthur Conan Doyle’s character, Professor Challenger. Sherlock Holmes was, of course, an exception as far as his reading interests went. But, otherwise, detective titles were more Ma’s department.”
 
 “In fact, Sukumar Ray had penned a parody of Professor Challenger titled ‘Heshoram Hushiyarer Diary’. It could be seen as a spoof of ‘The Lost World’. Incidentally, ‘The Lost World’ was a great favourite of Baba’s. Sukumar Ray had also created another character called Nidhiram Patkel, an inventor. Incidentally, Baba had brought out reprints of the entire range of Sukumar Ray’s literary repertoire in ‘Sandesh’. It goes without saying that my grandfather’s astonishing literary creativity occupied a special corner in his heart,” adds Sandip.
 
 Against this rich backdrop, Ray contemplated inventing his Sci-Fi character, Professor Shanku. This was when Satyajit, wife Bijoya and Sandip were living at Lake Temple Road (in south Kolkata). Initially, Ray had mulled Shanku as a one-shot venture, just as he had imagined Feluda to be four years later. But, both turned out to be a series of novellas or books because of the stupendous response from readers. “But we don’t have a clue to the reason behind Baba’s christening him by that name. Just like we don’t know why Pradosh Mitter’s nickname is Feluda. But, without a whisker of doubt, we would have never discovered Satyajit Ray, the writer, had ‘Sandesh’ not resurfaced. All we would be left with is Baba’s writings on cinema,” Sandip drives home. “In that context, ‘Sandesh’ plays a hugely crucial role.” Incidentally, the maiden collection of Shanku stories, titled ‘Professor Shanku’, was published by Newscript, which was a wing of ‘Sandesh’.
 
 As Professor Shanku germinated in Ray’s intellect, he planned crafting the tale in a diary format. Many disagreed with this concept, but Ray stuck to his guns. Thus, the first Professor Shanku, ‘Byomjatrir Diary (The Diary of a Space Traveller)’, came to life. “At the outset, Shanku was visualised as slightly freakish. For instance, there were contraptions like the Snuff Gun, which the professor targeted at his domestic help, Prahlad, to check out its effectiveness. Anyone can guess Prahlad’s state after this experiment. Prahlad wouldn’t stop sneezing, of course. ‘Byomjatrir Diary’ also found a robot, named Bidhusekhar, assembled by Professor Shanku. Bidhusekhar was intentionally made to be a little cockeyed, to lend a cottage-industry flavour. So, to balance that imperfection, Baba put a smile on his face in the illustration. One doesn’t know why Baba thought of naming it Bidhusekhar, too. And, everything was unfolding at Shanku’s laboratory in Giridih,” describes Sandip. Therefore, the first Shanku was leaning toward parody.
 
 Interestingly, the Ray family owned a property in Giridih. “It’s a beautiful house which still survives as a heritage building which has been converted into a guest house,” Sandip informs. “The Indian Statistical Institute (ISI) in Giridih harbours records of the property and officials there told us, when we visited the ISI, that the building, known as Lal Kuthi, was once frequented by members from the Ray family, including Satyajit Ray, off and on,” Sandip says. “Baba would also visit the Usri river in Giridih in his childhood.”
 
 But Ray realised that the nonsensical structure that ‘Byomjatri’ exuded would not sustain and draw readers’ interest in the long run. Therefore, the future Shanku titles became more serious, the inventions increasingly thought-provoking and interesting villains and intrigue gradually crept in. In fact, the second title itself, ‘Professor Shanku O Egyptio Atanko (Professor Shanku and the Egyptian Terror)’ reflected far more seriousness. “The wacky and weird facets had disappeared,” underscores Sandip.
 
 In essence, both Professor Shanku and Feluda are avatars of Satyajit Ray himself. “Well, location-wise, most locales Shanku visited were beyond Baba’s reach (‘Byomjatri’, for instance, revolved around Mars), while he visited most destinations where Feluda went investigating,” Sandip airs with a smile. A facet about the Professor Shanku titles which is unique is that despite being part of the Sci-Fi genre, they were never loaded with a surfeit of technicalities. They were, after all, written for young adults. “But Baba had to read up a lot more material for his Shanku narratives. For instance, the process of mummification when he wrote ‘Egyptio Atanko’. And, he would share this knowledge in a simplistic vein with his young readers.”
 
 “Thus, together with reading Sci-Fi novels by famous writers, he began subscribing to journals like ‘Science Digest’ and ‘Scientific American’. These periodicals helped him to chance upon and update himself about fresh scientific discoveries, some of which he weaved into his Professor Shanku tales,” says Sandip. “After all, he was not armed with the internet at that time.” At the same time, if Ray was planning to send Shanku to a location he had never travelled to, he would fall back on his collection of the Encyclopaedia Britannica. There was no Lonely Planet, too, in those days. Or, if, perchance, he had friends in a country or city which was the location for a Shanku story, he would write to them for relevant literature, picture postcards and materials like street maps.
 
 “One must remember that Baba was not just a writer, but also an illustrator. He would also occasionally drop by at the National Library. Some friends suggested he become a member of Calcutta Club because it had a library. Baba took a look at it and found that it was truly well-stocked. So, he would visit Calcutta Club, too, purely for research work, and not for a drink,” says Sandip with a chuckle.
 
 It was not the age of emails and WhatsApps, too. So, the correspondence to and from friends overseas would stretch over almost a month. Interestingly, legendary Sci-Fi writer Arthur C Clarke was a close friend and associate of Ray. “I distinctly recall folders arriving from friends abroad,” says Sandip. Later, he also would go across to Mohan Tiwari’s book stall near New Market and pick up the science magazine ‘Omni’. All these painstaking efforts were aimed at buttressing his unflinching pursuit to pen Professor Shanku. Over time, Shanku evolved into a deeply erudite scientist and a savant.
 
 Of course, one must remember that together with Shanku, Ray had also begun writing short stories. But, before Feluda arrived in 1965, he had wrapped up roughly seven Professor Shankus which included ‘Byomjatrir Diary’, ‘Professor Shanku O Egyptio Atanko’, ‘Professor Shanku O Har (Professor Shanku and the Bones)’, ‘Professor Shanku O Macaw (Professor Shanku and the Macaw)’, ‘Professor Shanku O Putul (Professor Shanku and the Curious Statuettes)’, ‘Professor Shanku O Golok Rahasya (Professor Shanku and the Mysterious Sphere)’ and ‘Professor Shanku O Chee-Ching (Professor Shanku and Chee-Ching)’. Then, of course, it was Shanku, Feluda and the short stories crystallising in tandem. “Of course, during pre-production and shooting of his films, writing would be kept at bay. And, one must weigh that Baba was not only writing his own stories. He was editing ‘Sandesh’ and illustrating the bulk of contributions by other writers,” underscores Sandip.
 
 Professor Shanku traversed a gamut of places from space to land. And threw up a sweep of inventions: the Annihilin Gun, which was a non-violent weapon and simply made people disappear (incidentally, Shanku believed in non-violence); highly civilised computers, the Remembrain which regenerated lost memory, Intellectron; Miracurol (a cure for all diseases); fish and coffee pills and Botica Indica, all food substitutes. ‘Professor Shanku O Bhoot (Professor Shanku and the Spook)’ found a contraption which enabled one to communicate with spirits… all far ahead of their time.
 
 “As with Feluda, after quite a while, Baba was running out of ideas for Shanku. Coinciding with this writer’s block, I had purchased a book titled ‘Frankenstein Diaries’. Baba read it and came up with a Shanku weaving Frankenstein into it (‘Professor Shanku and Frankenstein’). Baba had naturally read up Mary Shelley’s ‘Frankenstein’ earlier,” Sandip says. Similarly, ‘Dr Jekyll and Mr Hyde’ inspired ‘Dr Daniellir Abishkaar (Dr Daniellir’s Invention)’.
 
 Then, after Ray suffered two massive cardiac attacks in the 80s and underwent a bypass surgery in the US, a depressing lull encased the consummate creative genius on his writing front. “One day, he suddenly told me he was contemplating killing Professor Shanku. I was shattered. I reasoned with him that his invention, Miracurol, wouldn’t allow that. Shanku’s pet cat, Newton, was alive for 24 years because of Miracurol, I told him,” reminisces Sandip. Did Ray have a premonition of his own end? None will ever know.
 
 Then, in 1990, two years before Ray passed away, came a jewel of a Shanku title, ‘Sharnoporni (The Golden Leaf)’. The last and 40th Shanku creation (writings which have been translated in several domestic and overseas languages), arguably the singular Sci-Fi character in Bengali literature, hovered curiously around a flashback of the unforgettable professor’s life. The conjurer’s Miracurol has helped keep the inimitable Satyajit Ray and his peerless Professor Trilokeshwar Shanku alive in mass memory.
 
 
