Trichy: The Trichy Interational Airport terminus which was plagued by poor maintenance will soon sport a complete makeover at par with international standards. Officials from Airport Authority of India (AAI) have taken up renovation work at an estimated cost of Rs 1.71 crore. The work is expected to be completed around April, officials added. 

 Poor maintenance of restrooms at the international airport was a common complaint aired by passengers who arrive here. They said that the continuing lack of maintenance had been causing them severe inconvenience. Many passengers regularly expressed their anger on social media over the stench and leaking taps.
 
 Airport director K Gunasekaran said that steps had been initiated to arrive at a permanent solution for this problem. “We have given a contract to a new agency, who will take up fixing all 28 toilets in both departure and arrival areas at an estimated cost of Rs 90 lakh. Work is going on rapidly and I have also asked for regular checks, surprise inspections to monitor the maintenance. There will be significant improvement by the month of April,” he said. Sanitary napkin vending machines will also be placed at women’s toilets, he added.
 
 This apart, a canopy would be established to cover the open area in between the terminal and corridor at a cost of Rs 25 lakh, in order to safeguard passengers from rain, he said. “The entire flooring area on the corridor covered by vitrified tiles will be replaced with granite marbles. For this Rs 56 lakh has been sanctioned. So, by April, the terminal building would sport a new look,” airport director added.
 
 The director also stated that Devyani International Limited which owns and operates a chain of franchised restaurants will operate a KFC, South Indian restaurants, coffee and ice cream shops and textiles at the airport.
 
 “A total of 285 square meter area has been handed over to Devyani International Limited to establish their outlets at the terminal as well as outside the terminal. This facility will also be inaugurated by the month of April,” he added.
 
 
