PANAJI: In the month of January, 12 cases of   ( ) were reported from Sattari, which were restricted to the village of  . While no fresh cases have been reported from other talukas, the directorate of health services (DHS) is expecting a marginal rise in numbers during March-April when people will regularly visit cashew orchards.

 The cumulative effect of the measures adopted by DHS during last two years to control the spread of monkey disease has been yielding results, a DHS official said. State epidemiologist Dr   said the places which witnessed sporadic cases last year, have not seen any cases so far. 
 
  
  
 
 “We will start getting cases when people will begin visiting cashew plantations in March-April. The cases detected in January were of no consequence. All these were mild cases and patients recovered during hospitalisation. But I will be really worried if people start turning up in critical condition or if there are any deaths due to the disease,” said Betodkar.
 
 Beginning this season, Betodkar said they have distributed DMT oil, a kind of repellant that people should apply on their bodies before venturing into cashew plantations. The repellant provides protection from monkey ticks, which is the source of the disease.
 
 Besides this, DHS has equipped itself KFD vaccines. “We have about 4,000 plus vaccines,” said Betodkar. Last year, about 80 KFD cases were detected, with many originating in the Pernem taluka following an outbreak in Bandha, a border town in Maharashtra.
 
 After the first KFD case was detected in Goa in 2015, the state has seen a recurrence of the disease every season since then, but comparatively less cases have been detected post the 2016 season. Betodkar attributed the decline to various measures adopted by DHS in controlling infections and spreading awareness about the disease.
 
 Following deaths due to KFD, he said that people have started taking precautions before venturing into cashew plantations. Also, any monkey deaths are immediately reported to the authorities so that the carcass is disposed of appropriately, incase there is KFD infection.
 
 
