Poila Boishakh or the Bengali New Year is celebrated in the city with much fervour and enthusiasm by both Bengalis and non-Bengalis. Various cultural and art performances are organised for a few days. Interestingly, Poila Boishakh coincides with other regional festivals like Baisakhi (Punjab), Vishu (Kerala) and Bihu (Assam), as people celebrate the New Year with their own local traditions and customs. The festival marks the end of the harvest season.

 
 
 Like every year, this year too, people associated with the Bengali community will gather at Ravindra Bhawan to make merry in the evening. That way, people get an opportunity to make new friends and interact with each other. Sandeep Roy, secretary, Rabindra Bhawan, said, “The Bengali community celebrates Poila Boishakh at Rabindra Bhawan on a grand scale. Around 1,000 people visit here. We not only invite the Bengali community but also our non-Bengali friends who love to enjoy the day with us.”
 
 
 
 The students of Geeta Bhawan, an institute of culture and dance, which is a part of Ravindra Bhawan, are all set to perform this evening. Sandeep further added, “Children from the institute will perform various cultural dance forms including   and Rabindranritya. Ladies can participate in songs, music, drama and some games that we organise for them. Sometimes we also invite celebrities. Sadly, we could not contact anyone this year.”
 
 
 
 On this day, people prefer to wear their traditional attire and they shop much in advance.  , a homemaker, said, “My relatives and I visit each other’s home to exchange gifts and wish them luck for the year ahead. Buying new clothes are must for us. Also, we touch our elders’ feet to seek blessings. It’s part of our custure, you see.” Sharing similar views,  , a government employee, added, “We love to make greeting cards on Bengali themes and gift each other. We do it to spread happiness and cheer. I have made some fantastic handmade cards this year, which I will distribute in the evening.” 
 
 
 
 For Bengali traders and shop owners, Poila Boishakh is an auspicious day. Arnab Rakshit, who owns a sweet shop at Anishabad, said, “On this day, the Bengali Hindu traders purchase new accounting book. After a traditional puja, businessmen open their new ledger book, the haal khata. Before opening it, various traders try to clear all their debts of previous year and start with a fresh register.”
 
 
 
 Poila Boishakh is incomplete without a feast. Homemakers are already into festive mood and have already prepared a variety of food items at home. Pallavi Ghosh, a homemaker, said, “Today, I have decided to prepare a special fish and rice dish, sweets like mouchak, payesh, patishapta and malpua. We have invited our neighbours and friends for a sumptuous Bengali treat in the evening.”
 
 Besides, restaurants and sweet shops are also making a good business throughout the week. Rosogollas, sandesh, kalakand and ras malai are among best-selling sweets in the market. Sumit Singh, owner of a sweet shop, said, “Just before the Bengali New Year, we order for special Bengali sweets and misti doi from Kolkata as it is much in demand. My shop is doing brisk business since the last two days as good number of Bengalis has ordered for sweets.”
 
 
