German carmakers have promised to swiftly investigate experiments that exposed people and monkeys to diesel fumes, disclosures that threaten to open a new phase in an emissions controversy that’s dogged the industry since 2015.

 The experiments were carried out at the University of Aachen in Germany and backed by a little-known group funded by   AG, Daimler AG (the owner of  ) and   AG. Reports of the human tests followed a New York Times account of similar experiments on monkeys in the US, prompting automakers to distance themselves from the work.
 
 “I’ll do everything so that these events will be fully investigated,” Volkswagen chairman Hans Dieter Poetsch said on Monday in an emailed statement. He said the practices were “incomprehensible” in every way.
 
 The bombshell revelations mark a fresh blow to German carmakers’ once-stellar reputation for engineering prowess and no-nonsense efficiency. It’s also a new low since the 2015 exposure of VW’s cheating on diesel emission tests that saw 11 million vehicles equipped with software to evade regulators. 
 
 German newspaper Stuttgarter Zeitung was the first to report on Monday the human trial at the University of Aachen, citing annual reports from the European Research Group on Environment and Health in the Transport Sector, or EUGT, which closed last year. The human study, involved exposing 25 subjects, mostly students, to low levels of nitrogen dioxide — from a 40-litre bottle, not a diesel engine. The university had followed typical procedures, such as approval by an ethics commission as well as written consent from each participant, it said. The study ended before the 2015 revelations about VW’s software.
 
 In the animal study, New York Times found that a group of monkeys was exposed to diesel exhaust from a late-model Volkswagen, while another group was exposed to fumes from an older Ford pickup. After breathing diluted exhaust for four hours, the monkeys were examined and researchers took samples of lung tissue to check for inflammation. The research did not kill the monkeys, but it was unclear what happened to them afterward.
 
 In an additional twist, the VW Beetle model used in the test with animals was among the vehicles rigged to cheat on emissions tests, the New York Times reported. Over the weekend, Volkswagen apologised for the misconduct and lack of judgment of some individuals, calling the trials a mistake.
 
 BMW, while distancing itself from the studies, said the assessment of the trial at   before an independent body with appropriate expertise — such as the ethics commission — should be taken into account. Daimler also promised to probe, while saying it didn’t have any influence over the study. “We are appalled by the extent of the studies and their implementation,” it said in a statement. 
 
 
 
