CHENNAI: Ever thought that an investigation of a crime scene or building an interactive-friendly monster could be part of classroom learning at the school level? In an era where institutions are attempting to incorporate artificial intelligence (AI) and robotics in their curriculum, learning systems too are set to undergo changes.

 To deliberate on different kinds of learning that institutions will have to adopt for changes in the years ahead, the   (RAAIF) in association with Anna University, Vibha and the US consulate organised a ‘21st century education conclave’ on Monday.
 
 The foundation is attempting to bring in different modules (like the two mentioned above) at the school level involving robotics and other AI-related hands-on learning. The foundation has close to 1,000 schools in Chennai and is seeking to train teachers. “This should start at the school level so that students at college level are equipped for the future,” said RAAIF founder-chairman Kris Kumar.
 
 Several panellists who attended the conclave at Anna University also discussed the kind of approach required in teaching in educational institutions. One of these was to focus on the hands-on learning of STEM subjects Science, Technology, Engineering and Management – as it would serve as handy tools in the era of AI and robotics. 
 
 However, they also said it was important to have a balance between academic and creative abilities. While logic and academics are given a lot of prominence, artistic abilities have to be actively emphasised which is missing at the college level, said  , dean of students at  . “The foundation for developing both abilities must be set right from the school level. It is like making one wing very strong but neglecting the other. How will a bird fly is only one side is strong,” he questioned. 
 
 Lawrence Mohanraj, GM,   India said while the ability to communicate is another aspect constantly being scrutinised, institutions must first help its students develop clarity of thought which is key for effective communication and that language skills would follow next.
 
 
