LUDHIANA: The city continued to witness above normal temperatures, with the day   crossing 24 degrees in January itself. The good news for residents on the weather front is that the   predicts   to prevail in the next few days.

 The maximum temperature in the city on Thursday was recorded at 24.5C (a whopping seven degrees above normal), whereas the minimum temperature was measured at 6.5C (a degree above normal). Relative humidity was recorded at 94% (14% above normal). However, visibility in the city on Thursday was low due to fog, and was recorded at 750 metres.
 
 As residents continued to enjoy the pleasant weather prevailing in the city, there is more good news coming their way. The Met department officials at Chandigarh said the weather was likely to stay dry, and there were no chances of rainfall in the next few days. They added that fog/mist were likely in Ludhiana in the early morning hours. According to the Met department website, the maximum temperature is expected to drop to 21 degrees on January 22, while the night temperature is likely to remain between 6 and 7 degrees until January 22.
 
 Residents are enjoying the prevailing weather in the city. “About 15 days ago, I was planning to escape to Goa with my family, due to severe cold in the city, but I have cancelled the programme, as the weather is wonderful in Ludhiana as well. We have even stopped using heating appliances at night, as it is not too cold now. And at day time, the temperature is high, so I don’t wear warm stuff, but simply a sweat shirt,” said  , a businessman from Civil Lines. 
 
 RAIN CHANCE NEXT WEEK 
 
 Weather in the city will remain pleasant for the next few days, following which there could be chances of moderate to heavy rainfall next week, said an official of the Met department. There are possibilities of shallow fog, mostly during early morning hours, after which there might be chances of moderate rainfall, which will decrease the city’s temperature. “The level of smog and fog in the city was not exceptional on Thursday, except in the industrial area, where pollution levels were high in the evening.”
 
 
