MUMBAI: After a two-month hunt,  , principal of Ramnarain Ruia College (autonomous), was announced the vice-chancellor of Mumbai University on Friday afternoon. He is likely to take charge on Saturday morning. 

 Pednekar, 60, was selected by Governor C Vidyasagar Rao, who is the chancellor of all state universities in Maharashtra, from among five shortlisted candidates. TOI was the first to report on April 26 that Pednekar was the frontrunner in the race for the V-C's post. 
 
  He is probably the first principal from affiliated colleges to be appointed as the vice-chancellor of the Mumbai University in three decades. He succeeds Sanjay Deshmukh, who was sacked after a controversial two-year tenure. What surely worked in Pednekar's favour is the fact that he has been an able administrator as principal at the college for 12 years and has stayed away from controversies, said sources. 
 
  Pednekar was selected over four others, including  , pro-vice-chancellor of Nagpur University.   was a strong contender, but a complaint against his appointment at Nagpur, could have gone against his candidature, said sources. The tussle could be the reason why the announcement of the new V-C's appointment was delayed by a week. 
 
 The complainant against Yeole had even written to the VC-search committee before he was shortlisted for the post. The committee, headed by scientist K Kasturirangan, had attached the complaint with their report submitted to the Governor. A government source said there were six letters written by more than one person to the committee.
 
 On the contrary, Pednekar's affiliation to the university system for several years would have worked to his advantage, say government sources. Anil Karnik, director, MU's Garware Institute of Career Education and Development, V S Sapkal, former vice-chancellor of Nagpur University, and P N Kondekar an aspirant from  , were the others shortlisted.
 
 The V-C's term is for five years or till he attains 65 years, whichever is early. Pednekar will turn 65 in September 2022, and therefore will serve as V-C for four and a half years. As principal of one of the city's leading colleges for 12 years and four decades of association with the university system will work in his favour, believe his contemporaries.
 
 Pednekar, a professor of organic chemistry, has been advocating for green chemistry for over 10 years. He enjoys light music and even sings occasionally, say his friends and colleagues. He enjoys cricket and was a good batsman too, said a senior colleague, who visited him at the college on Friday to congratulate him. "Whenever he got time, he participated in cricket matches organised by the staff. While his wife is a history professor at a   college, both his sons are in the US," she added. Pednekar hails from the   region, and actively supports the cause of education there.
 
 
