CHENNAI: Investigators with the   (OCIU) of the state police on Sunday arrested two women in Purasawalkam for colluding with a gang, busted in   on Saturday for smuggling arms, and seized fake notes with a face value of 64,000 from them.

 A police team arrested Kuppu, 60, from her house in Nammalvarpet, Purasawalkam, and her sister  , 57, on information from Nagaraj, Kuppu's son, one of three suspects the Trichy arm of the OCIU apprehended on Saturday with his accomplices,  , a constable, and Siva.
 
 The OCIU officers nabbed the men at Central Bus Station, Trichy, and seized two pistols and 10 rounds of ammunition that they were trying to sell for 1.5 lakh. The men had smuggled arms earlier, too, from  , Bihar,   and  , an investigating officer said.
 
 The city police had on Friday arrested two men at the   railway station station and seized five pistols, 20 rounds of ammunition and 4 lakh in counterfeit currency, which they had brought from Assam on the Chennai Central-bound Guwahati Express. Officers found that a prisoner in Puzhal Central Prison was involved in the racket.
 
 "The women were aware that the notes were fake but denied that they had been circulating them locally," the investigating officer said. "We suspect they were passing on large amounts of counterfeit cash."
 
 Kuppu confessed Nagalakshmi had received the fake cash from her son Nagaraj, he said. Of the 64,000 in fake currency that police seized were 108 500 notes, 80 100 notes and one 2,000 note.
 
 "There is a direct link between Saturday and Sunday's arrests," he said. "As to the two men caught in Thiruvottiyur, the only common thread we have established so far is that they purchased weapons from the same states."
 
 Intelligence agencies have probed numerous cases of terror outfits, and state actors who support them, attempting to flood the country with counterfeit currency but investigators are yet to question the suspects about possible connections with such groups.
 
 "When we take the suspects into custody, we will interrogate them to determine if they have any links with these outfits," he said. "But we are pursuing every lead available, because even if these rackets have no terror link, we want to clamp down on any budding gun culture in the state."
 
 
