PUNE: A special court on Thursday directed the Pune district collector to make arrangements for video recording of the entire court proceeding in relation to the January 1 violence in Koregaon Bhima as per the provisions under the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. 

 Special judge Pralhad C Bhagure is to hear the bail application of   leader  , a prime accused in the case, on April 4. The directive for video recording was made in response to an intervention application by Sanjay Bhalerao, a victim of the violence. 
 
 The court, however, rejected a slew of other prayers made by Bhalerao, including that of police protection and travelling expenses for victims, monitoring of ongoing probe by the court and narco analysis, brain mapping and lie detector test on five accused named in the FIR, among others. Lawyer Tosif Shaikh filed an intervention application on behalf of another victim,  , opposing bail for Ekbote. 
 
 Ekbote, along with veteran Hindutva leader   alias Bhide Guruji and three others, was named in the FIR registered by the Shikrapur police in relation to the violence that left one dead and damage to several properties. Ekbote was arrested on March 14 and is currently lodged in judicial custody at the Yerawada jail. 
 
 On Thursday, Bhalerao moved an application seeking various reliefs and directions under the provisions of the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. Prominent among these were the prayers for rejection of Ekbote’s bail plea, video-recording of the court proceedings, police protection for the victims, grant of travelling expenses for the victims to attend the court proceedings and monitoring of the ongoing investigation by the court. He also prayed for directions to conduct narco analysis, brain mapping and lie detector test on the five accused.
 
 Senior lawyer SK Jain, representing  , submitted that the court ought to pass an appropriate order on the application. Additional public prosecutor Vilas Pathare submitted that the investigating officer was taking efforts to implement the provisions of the Atrocities Act. Lawyer Amol Dange, who is assisting Jain, told TOI, “The court allowed only one of the several prayers by issuing directions for the video recording.”
 
 Judge Bhagure said in his order that the district collector was the appropriate authority for the grant of travelling, accommodation and legal expenses under the Act and the victim had made no effort to approach the agency concerned. As such, his prayer for these expenses was premature. 
 
 Similarly, the court held that the prayer for police protection was also premature and there were no grounds and reason for the court to monitor the investigation as the same would result in interference in the rights and duties of police. 
 
 Also, there was no cause for the victim to make a prayer for narco analysis, brain mapping and lie detector test, the court said. 
 
 
