KOCHI: After high court ordered the registration of an FIR against   over the controversial land deals, the permanent synod of Syro-Malabar Church stood behind the cardinal on Tuesday, said sources.

 At the permanent synod meeting, cardinal Alencherry said that he had not wilfully committed a mistake and the land was sold to repay the loans taken by the church. Alencherry admitted that there was some truth in the allegation that these land deals resulted in revenue loss due to some technical flaws. The present allegation is that the cardinal, two priests and a land broker committed irregularities while selling land parcels belonging to  .
 
 
 But, Alencherry said that the court has not given its final verdict in the case. It is learnt that the synod did not contradict his claim. Besides Cardinal Mar Alencherry, the permanent synod includes major Archbishops Andrews Thazhath, Mathew Moolakkatt, Joseph Perumthottam and George Njarlakkatt and Bishop Jose Porunnedom.
 
 Meanwhile, a press release issued from the cardinal’s office said that Alencherry has the right to sell land parcels owned by the archdiocese and he had a valid reason for the sale, i.e., to repay dues. The issue was discussed and vetted in various fora of the church, it stated.
 
 “No law was violated while carrying out the land deals. Cardinal Alencherry signed the deeds as the archbishop. Those who purchased the land and brokers failed to deposit the money in the church’s bank account on time and this led to a financial loss. Lack of vigilance (on the part of church) led to the loss. Steps are being taken to compensate the loss,” read the official statement.
 
 The cardinal had appointed a church committee to conduct a probe and find solutions. Though high court ordered the police to register a case, based on the complaint filed by a person alleging financial misappropriations, the court made it clear that its observations shouldn’t influence the investigation. After receiving a copy of the court order, cardinal will take further action in consultation with those concerned, read the statement. Meanwhile, police said a case will be registered after receiving a copy of the court order.
 
 Many organizations – including Presbyteral council and Archdiocesan Movement Transparency – have been clamouring for Alencherry’s resignation after the land deal controversy was reported in the media. “The cardinal should own up his mistake and step down. Now, he will face legal charges. This has brought disrepute to the church and created a moral crisis too,” said a senior priest.
 
 
 
 
 IDUKKI: It is learnt that Cardinal Mar George Alencherry had signed agreements to sell two more plots of land under the Ernakulam-Angamaly  .
 
 However, the registration of the plots has not been completed. TOI has a copy of the agreement of the controversial land deal. The 8-cent and 50-cent (one land with two separate title deeds) plot is situated in front of Perumaloor School near Thevara and a 28.1-cent plot is at GCDA near   in the heart of Kochi.
 
 As per the agreement, the two plots were to be sold to Jose Kurian, of Ramallur at Kothamangalam, at Rs 8 crore.
 
 The cardinal had signed the documents of the two plots in 2017.
 
 For the registration, a real estate dealer Saju Varghese Kunnel had bought stamp papers worth Rs 80 lakh.
 
 Officials with the archdiocese came to know about the deal only last week when the real estate dealer approached them, seeking the Rs 80 lakh he had paid to buy the stamp papers, say sources.
 
 “He submitted the photo copy of the three documents signed by the cardinal and sought money from the archdiocese. We directed him to produce the original agreement which he has not done so far,” said a senior priest belonging to the archdiocese, adding that the church officials were also planning to sell another 155 cents at Kundanoor in Kochi.
 
 It is also reported that the land deal was on an exchange basis.
 
 As per the agreement, the church would buy 95 acres of rubber estate owned by Jose Kurian, near Kothamangalam, in exchange of the plots situated in prime locations in Kochi.
 
 “As part of our primary inquiry, serious malpractices were found in the other two land deals and a detailed probe is needed into the issue. We suspect the church head was trying to sell more land of the archdiocese. The officials planned to sell land worth over Rs 100 crore at a throwaway price of Rs 8 crore,” said the senior priest.
 
 
