NEW DELHI: With India comfortably tightening their hold on the No 1 spot in the ICC Test Championship in 2017 with subcontinent series wins over Bangladesh, Australia and Sri Lanka (twice), Virat Kohli’s team now begins a long, difficult and in all probability defining away season starting with the tour of South Africa. 

 Over the next 12-odd months, the Indian cricket team will play three Tests in South Africa, five in England and four in Australia. They will take each series as it comes, knowing that as the first Test starts in Cape Town on January 5, the scrutiny and expectation will be amplified. 
 
 ALSO READ: 
 
 Since India returned from the West Indies in September 2016, where Kohli became the first Indian captain to win a Test series there, this team has played each of its 19 Tests in Asia (16 at home, three in Sri Lanka), winning 14, drawing four and losing one. As has become the trend for India over the past few years, one heavy home season has been followed by a string of away tours, and then the stopwatch is set to zero again, for the same pattern to be replayed. Thus, the South Africa tour puts in motion another cycle of away tours. 
 
 ALSO READ: 
 
 
 Make no mistake. South Africa will have in their memory the tour of India in 2015, when rank turners were rolled out and wickets fell in heaps, at the end of which India were series victors and South Africa having lost the No 1 ranking. India have won just two Tests on South African soil dating back to their first tour there in 1992. They have never won a series. The challenge, in a new year, with a well-oiled team, remains the same as with any Indian team that has toured South Africa: how to cope with the home team’s pace attack, in conditions aiding fast bowling, and how to dislodge the host batsmen.
 
 ALSO READ: 
 
 
 While that may not translate to a bouncer barrage - unexpectedly dry conditions in Cape Town have left the curators struggling to prepare a lively pitch - the challenge will be for India’s batsmen to stand up to the South Africa pace attack. A factor which, in the words of Ravi Shastri, could determine the outcome of the Test series. Shastri has stressed repeatedly that India’s bowlers are capable of taking 20 wickets, but that the batsmen will have to stand up. 
 
 So then, let us begin with the facts. Of the current Test squad, Kohli,  , Shikhar Dhawan,  , Ajinkya Rahane, Rohit Sharma, R Ashwin, Ravindra Jadeja, Mohammed Shami and   have played Tests in South Africa. KL Rahul, Umesh Yadav, Bhuvneshwar Kumar, Hardik Pandya, Wriddhiman Saha and Parthiv Patel have not. Jasprit Bumrah has yet to play a Test. 
 
 Kohli, in two Tests in South Africa, has 272 runs with scores of 119 and 96 in one drawn Test. Rahane averages 69.66 in as many games, with two fifties and a 47. Pujara averages 44.42 in four, with top scores of 153 and 70. Vijay’s average is 29.33 from three Tests, with one fifty. Both he and Rahane came to within a shot of scoring centuries during the last tour, out for 97 and 96 respectively. Dhawan averages 19 in two Tests, with a best of 29; 11.25 in two, with a best of 25. 
 
 The bowling, based on past tours, is not as comforting. Ishant has played the most Tests in South Africa - five - but has managed just 12 wickets at an average of 54.16, striking every 91.3 deliveries. That is a wicket every 15 overs. Shami has six wickets in two Tests at a strike-rate of 75. Ashwin and Jadeja each played one Test out of two during the 2013-14 tour, with contrasting results. Ashwin went wicketless in the Johannesburg draw, sending down 42 overs, and was dropped for Jadeja in Durban, who took six wickets in one innings. Both spinners have grown exponentially since then, at one time pushing each other for the No 1 bowler tag, and India have a tough choice before the first Test. 
 
  
  
 
 
 Shastri recently commented that this is the best he’s seen Ishant bowl, and given his performances against Sri Lanka recently, there is merit to getting him into the starting XI for the first Test, alongside Shami. Thereon, India’s pace picks are not automatic. Bhuvneshwar has been excellent in home conditions, but his lack of pace may work against him in South Africa if the surfaces are not green-tinged. Umesh was off-key against Sri Lanka and completely outdone by his rookie Vidarbha partner Rajneesh Gurbani during the recent Ranji Trophy semi-final, where Karnataka were beaten by just five runs on the last day. Bumrah is uncapped at Test level and last played a first-class match in the first week of 2017. 
 
 As TOI highlighted this week, the success of past Indian pace attacks in South Africa has, collectively, not been flattering bar a couple of stand-out exploits, which literally have resulted in the two wins in South Africa in 2006-07 and 2010-11. In front of the South African pace attack’s collective figures, India’s pales. In 235 combined Test matches, the quartet of Dale Stein, Morne Morkel, Vernon Philander and Kagiso Rabada has taken 976 wickets. Ishant, Shami, Bhuvneshwar, Ishant and Pandya have combined for 477 wickets in 164 Tests. Stats do not always tell the whole truth, but neither do they lie. 
 
 Not to be overlooked in the batting v bowling discussions is an equally vital talking point with this Indian team - the slip cordon. In India’s last Test, against Sri Lanka in Delhi, Kohli, Rohit and Dhawan each dropped a catch in the slips. Dhawan spilled both that came to him in the series. Vijay, Rahane, Rahul, Ashwin and Jadeja have also dropped chances in the cordon. Not all of these men are natural slip fielders, but with such an alarming regularity of missed chances, under watchful supervision of a fielding coach, the slip cordon is a glaring area of concern. 
 
 Since they finished the Australia tour in early 2015, India’s away Tests have been in the West Indies, Bangladesh and Sri Lanka (twice). It is a huge reason for their ascent to the top spot in the ICC Test Championship. South Africa poses their first proper test since Kohli took over as captain. This is a side brimming with confidence. Whether it can overcome 25 years of disappointment in South Africa is a different matter. Reputations are on the line.
 
