Visakhapatnam: Delay in granting house sites, youth packages, compensation to D patta landholders and involvement of middlemen in awarding compensation have often led to war of words between officials and   people of   project for the last two years.

 Residents of several villages have been vacated by the government without providing an alternative accommodation to them. The displaced persons were scattered to various places in the district. The district officials on the orders of the government evicted people from 19 villages in Hiramandalam, Kotturu and LNPeta mandals that would be submerged under the reservoir.
 
 More than 7,000 families have been evacuated by the authorities and the evacuated families will have to be rehabilitated in 13 colonies, which are not completed yet. “Where can we go when the   colonies have not been completed yet. Some of the displaced have not been given house pattas or compensation for their lands till now,” asked Poli Naidu of Duggupuram village. The authorities had taken more than 20 cents of his land including house site and estimated Rs 29 lakh as compensation April of last year. But, the money has not been paid till now. 
 
 Another farmer KA Naidu said that villagers of Gorlepadu have given their D patta lands to the authorities, who has showed them list of beneficiaries names, extent of land acquired and amount. But not a single rupee was paid to them even after 2 years. “Now, there is no proof at villagers as the pattas have been taken by the authorities. May be documents were prepared and money was taken away by fake beneficiaries,” a degree student of Kotturu P Anand said.
 
 According to sources, around Rs 420 crore compensation package was placed for the displaced persons and distribution of rehabilitation package is on. Around 7,000 were considered as project displaced persons and another 5,000 were included in the relief package.
 
 Human Rights Forum leader M Jagannadha Rao told TOI that the middlemen network had developed in the displaced areas. Genuine displaced persons were not getting the compensation and the list of the fake displaced in the youth package has been increased. Without recommendations of the politicians, the displaced are not getting their rehabilitation packages, he alleged. The HRF leader suggested to the district administration to sort out the lapses by addressing the grievances of the displaced by conveying an all-party meeting.
 
 District collector K Dhanujaya Naidu said they would provide justice to all the displaced persons of the Vamsadhara project. To provide justice to them, the district administration is conducting a special grievance meeting on Saturday. 
 
 
