NEW DELHI: Pitching to make India a global sports powerhouse,   ( ) president   expressed interest on Thursday to host the Youth Olympic Games in 2026, Asian Games in 2030 and Summer Olympics in 2032. However, both the International Olympic Committee (IOC) and the sports ministry remained non-committal to Batra’s ambitious plans.

 
 
 
 Though IOC president   agreed that the country has the potential to host big-ticket multi-sport events, he said that the time hasn’t come to discuss these matters with India since “no procedures are presently open” for bidding.
 
 
 
 “India has been tapping on its potential in the field of economy and social side. We also wish that India is tapping on its potential in sports with regard to athletes’ success. But that appropriate time hasn’t come because there is no procedure opened for the Olympics or Youth Olympic Games. This could be done at a later date. I believe the Indian government and IOA still have some time to take this thought into consideration. I wish that may be, at a later stage, India will be able to host the Olympics,” Bach said.
 
 Batra, on his part, added: “We will be bidding on our part. It’s up to the competent authorities to decide on it.”
 
 According to some IOA members who attended the breakfast meeting between sports minister   and Bach, Batra had raised this issue of India placing its bid for hosting multi-sport events. However, Rathore didn’t sound too enthusiastic about it, except for looking into IOA’s Asiad bid, if it’s made at all in the future.
 
 On the issue of Birmingham organisers dropping shooting from its CWG programme in 2022, Bach said while they have no role to play in reversing the decision, the IOC has “no intention to drop shooting from the Olympic programme”.
 
 Batra said that National Rifle Association of India (NRAI) president Raninder Singh, who has urged the Indian government to boycott the Birmingham Games over the shooting snub, has gone too far with his threat. “While Mr. Raninder is free to voice his opinion, the matter doesn’t start or stop with boycotting the Games. I believe we are going a bit extreme on the issue. The IOA will certainly take up this matter with the concerned authorities.”
 
 Bach also informed that his discussion with Rathore also revolved around the doping menace, with India ranked third on the list of nations with highest dope offenders. “We all want protection of clean athletes and fair play. The minister ensured us that the clean and fair sport is his first priority. India wants to win clean medals.”
 
