CHENNAI: What does stand-up comedy and salsa have in common? Nothing that you can think of, but animal lovers in the city are using both genres to help raise money for strays.

 On April 7, Vanessa Hidalgo, along with  , another expat who is passionate about Afro-Latin dancing, will conduct the second edition of ‘Salsa for Strays’ in an effort to raise funds for   of India. “I wanted to create an event that would combine my passion for dancing and desire to give back,” says Hidalgo. From a family of animal lovers, it was but natural for the ESL-cum-salsa teacher to lend a helping hand to animal lovers in the city when she moved to Chennai from California two years ago.
 
 The fundraiser will have two events – one from 1pm to 5pm and another from 8pm to 11pm. “In the afternoon, we will have salsa, bachata, and kizomba workshops as well as salsa performances by local artists,” says Hidalgo, adding that there will also be an informal dance competition as well as a bake sale, face painting and a photo booth at   in Padur.
 
 The event at night, open to people aged 18 and above, will feature a salsa competition, dancing, and music and will be held at Pitch – The Sports Lounge at Metroplace Hotel. Tickets for the events are priced at Rs300 each. “All the funds raised will go to The Blue Cross of India. We will also be honouring Shibu, a Bengaluru-based animal welfare activist who feeds about 300 strays in Bengaluru and 250 strays in Chennai every day,” says Hidalgo, adding that the first edition of the event, held in 2017 helped raise Rs30,000.
 
 “We have about 1,800 animals in our shelters that we have to care for,” says Sathya Radhakrishnan, honorary joint secretary, BCI. “We will be using the money raised for the treatment of dogs and cats and to feed the 400 puppies and kittens we have.” To buy tickets, people can log on to salsaforstrays.com, bluecrossofindia.org/salsa.
 
 On the other hand, animal activist and rescuer P Ashwath, who rescues and gets more than 30 strays treated every month, has tied up with Evam Standup Tamasha to put together a show to raise funds for his work. The standup, titled ‘Acadummy Awards’, will be a Tamil spoof award show on last year’s movie releases and feature Praveen Kumar, Mervyn Rozario, Manoj Prabakhar and Jagan Krishnan. It will be performed at   on April 8 at 7.30pm. 
 
 “We’ve followed Ashwath’s work and wanted to do our bit. By the end of this show, we will be adding some messages about animal welfare as well,” says R Balasubramanian, project executive, Evam Standup Tamasha division.
 
 Ashwath, who has been working for the cause for 11 years, says he comes across animals with maggots, open wounds, fractures and runover cases almost on an everyday basis. “Animals with open wounds, particularly, cannot be let off with just a dressing, they need a long time to heal. As a result, they need sustained treatment and have to be kept under observation,” he says. 
 
 “Transportation costs are the highest. In February alone, I spent Rs. 9,000 on just transporting rescued animals, rehabilitating and releasing them,” he adds.
 
 Evam has previously done shows for Round Table, Rotary and the Chennai floods. “It has helped create awareness regarding these issues, while also helping the cause,” says Balasubramanian. Tickets, priced Rs 250 onwards, are available at bookmyshow.com.
 
 
