MUMBAI: The historic precinct of   in  , which earns its name from the world famous 66 million-year-old volcanic rock, is home to a sprawling slum colony with absymal levels of sanitation.

 Thursday morning, a small revolution unfolded in this shantytown. The biggest   lavatory complex in Mumbai with 55 seats was inaugurated in Gilbert Hill. The upper storey of the impressive structure is for men while the ground floor is earmarked for women. This state-of-the-art section includes a vending machine for sanitary napkins as well as an incinerator.
 
 Prashant Gaikwad, assistant municipal commissioner of K-West Ward, said this is the largest public toilet block in Mumbai. “It has been constructed at a cost of Rs 1.2 crore under the   (SSP). There is no fee for usage but the families will have to pay a nominal monthly charge of Rs 25-50 towards maintenance. We will appoint a community-based organization (CBO) for cleanliness and upkeep.”
 
 First-time corporator Meher Mohsin Haider had suggested the idea to the civic body. “My ward number 66 has a population of one lakh. Of these 65,000 are slum dwellers. We have proposed 11 similar complexes in the area, including one or two 60-70 seaters,” she said.
 
 Former MP   and deputy municipal commissioner Vijay Balamwar presided over the inauguration. Hundreds of local residents assembled as well. One Naseem Shaikh said she hoped this would be a free facility since large families cannot afford to pay per use every day.
 
 On July 6, the  , a government of India enterprise, declared Mumbai open defecation free (ODF). However. around slum colonies and railway land, people still ease themselves in the open, say citizen activists.
 
 Sahej Mantri, who runs a sanitation non-profit named Agasti, said, “The BMC may build public toilets but it does not maintain them. This task is assigned to CBOs so the results vary. Moreover, we have found that community blocks are not the answer to sanitation needs since most families prefer toilets to be inside the house. Particularly by night, women from the slums find it inconvenient to negotiate narrow lanes and dimly lit streets to reach a public toilet.”
 
 
