NEW DELHI: Former India captain   believes that   may have picked a winner in England wicketkeeper-batsman  , who two days ago turned a faltering chase into a sensational last-over victory with a sparkling 56 off 23 balls.

 
 
 
 
 Set a target of 203 after Kolkata Knight Riders'   bashed an unbeaten 88 off 36 balls,   were 101/3 in the 12th over when Billings walked to the crease. He proceeded to smash five sixes and two fours to turn around the chase even as MS Dhoni struggled with 25 off 28 balls, and when the Englishman was dismissed for 56 the score read 184/5 in 18.4 overs. CSK needed 17 off the last over and   and   each hit sixes off R   to complete a thrilling five-wicket win with one delivery left. 
 
 Writing in his column for TOI, Srikkanth, who was part of the CSK setup as an advisor a few seasons ago, felt that Billings could be a "champion" for his new   franchise. 
 
 "We have already witnessed some amazing efforts with the bat in season 11 but none better than the match-winning knock of 53 from Sam Billings. Widely expected to open, the Englishman made the middle order his own. For someone who did not grow up playing spin, the class and ease with which he handled the spinners was a treat. The flick off   will forever remain in my memory. Add the crowd pressure and the occasion, it was a massive effort and it looks like the former winners have unearthed a champion," wrote Srikkanth. 
 
 
 
 
 Billings, 26, was purchased by CSK for Rs 1 crore at the IPL players' auction in January. He had earlier played for Delhi Daredevils, scoring 226 runs in 10 innings with two fifties. 
 
 Billings has featured in 13 ODIs and 17 T20Is for England. 
 
 "Andre Russell played a knock that he alone is capable of, sadly there can be only one winner and it had to Chennai. The teams that have batted first have had a distinct advantage and that is robbing the event of some competition. I do agree there were a few out of the world chases but knowing what," wrote Srikkanth, who captained India in four Test matches and 13 ODIs.
 
 CSK currently lead the IPL 11 points table with two wins in a row. They returned to the IPL this season after a two-year suspension following the 2013 spot-fixing controversy.
 
