Ludhiana: Close to two months after the tragic fire in Amarson Polymers near Suffian Chowk, which took 16 lives, MC officials are finally going to give the compensatory amount to the kin of the nine fire brigade officials who died while trying to douse the fire from Thursday onwards. The officials will personally visit the residences of these firemen and hand over the money to their family members. 

 However, the kin would have to prolong their wait for the job appointment letters because MC has sent the proposal to the government for approval. The incident took place on November 20 last year. The state government had announced a compensation of Rs 5 lakh while Rs 5 lakh will be given from the MC account. Apart from this, the department also assured to clear the other dues of the employees as well.
 
 The officials have prepared the cheques of six firemen Rajinder Singh, Shimaun Gill, Rajkumar, Rajan, Puran Singh and Vishal Kumar while the rest three’s will be prepared shortly. Three of the firemen Manohar Lal, Manpreet Singh and Sukhdev have been recently declared dead by the district administration as their bodies were not traced along with other bodies in the debris of the building that had collapsed. The officials claimed they have already issued death certificates to the family members of these three firemen and they would prepare the cheques as well. 
 
 MC Commissioner Jaskiran Singh said they would send one officer to the houses of the firemen to hand over the amount. He said earlier they had planned to organise a get together at the MC office to give the compensation but now they would visit their houses as they are poor and some stay in Amritsar. 
 
 Two firemen Sukhdev and Manpreet were employed through outsourcing and MC officials had requested the government to give their kin a permanent job but government asked the officials to send a resolution approved thorough the technical advisory committee. The department has sent the resolution to the government. 
 
 
