CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and Haryana high court has directed the finance department of Punjab government to release around Rs 6.59 crore for purchasing 1,700 CCTV cameras to be installed in 406 police stations of the state. The HC also made it clear that if the orders were not complied with by March 6, secretaries of the departments of home and finance would be summoned before it.

 Justice   passed these orders after the Punjab DGP informed the HC that Rs 6.59 crore had been sanctioned by the finance department for purchasing CCTV but the amount had not yet been released by the district treasury as the amount was to be further transferred to the Punjab Information and Technology Corporation Limited, which was to purchase and install cameras.
 
 “Department of finance, is directed to ensure that it being a question of personal liberty of citizens, the aforesaid amount is released within 15 days as of today, after which the work of installation of cameras in the police stations would take place within a period of one month thereafter,” ordered Justice Singh while hearing the case on February 12.
 
 The HC has also made it clear that the finance secretary shall file his personal affidavit with regard to compliance of the order regarding release of amount by March 6. “If the affidavits are not filed, both the secretaries of the departments of home and finance, shall be summoned to court,” ordered the court.
 
 HC has also asked the additional chief secretary for home to file an affidavit giving a practical but urgent time frame for installation of CCTV cameras at all entry and exit points in CIA staff premises in Punjab. 
 
 HC has passed these orders while hearing an ongoing matter related to illegal detention of persons in the police custody and related issues. Emphasizing on technical monitoring of police stations, the HC on July 26, 2017, had directed the states of Haryana and Punjab to CCTV on all the entry and exit points of all the polices stations in both the states.
 
 Haryana DGP filed an affidavit before the HC informing that out of 308 police stations in the state, CCTV cameras have been installed in 305 police stations at all entry/exit points, including common entry points. The court was told that three police stations were under construction and cameras would be installed on completion of construction. Haryana has also informed the HC that the premises of all CIA staff in the state have also been equipped with CCTV cameras.
 
 
