CHENNAI: Punjab National Bank ( ) on Tuesday informed the   that   has put the bank's debt bonds on ratings watch with negative implications. 

 
 PNB informed BSE on February 19 that ICRA has placed the rating of [ICRA]AA+(hyb) for the Rs 1,000 crore Basel III Compliant Tier II Bonds and the rating of [ICRA]AA+ (ICRA double A plus) for the Rs 3,000 crore Infrastructure Bonds Programme and MAAA (M triple A) for the Fixed Deposit Programme of PNB on rating watch with negative implications.
 
 ICRA also has a rating of [ICRA]A1+ (ICRA A one plus) outstanding for the Rs 60,000 crore Certificate of Deposits programme. In an event, there is a change in long-term or medium-term rating of PNB; ICRA believes that the short-term ratings are likely to remain at current level of [ICRA]A1+, and hence short-term ratings have not been placed RWN.
 
 The ratings watch is subsequent to the PNB's disclosure to the stock exchanges whereby it has detected fraudulent transactions amounting to $1.77 billion (Rs 11,300 crore).
 
 "As per our discussion with the management, a large part of liability continues to remain contingent and bank has already initiated steps towards recovery against the said fraud. In ICRA's view, given the size of the amount involved in the fraud, in case these liabilities are to devolve on PNB without a commensurate recovery; the profitability, capital ratio and solvency levels of the bank will be adversely impacted," said ICRA. 
 
 ICRA said it will resolve the rating watch once clarity emerges on the amount of final liabilities devolved on PNB, recoveries made and the other steps undertaken by the management, such as capital raising, divestment of non-core assets etc. to reduce the impact of the loss on the capital ratios and solvency of the bank. "The ratings continue to derive comfort from PNB's majority sovereign ownership with 57% shareholding as on December 31, 2017, which is likely to increase further to ~62% subsequent to the capital infusion of Rs 5,473 crore allocated to PNB under the public sector bank recapitalisation programme of Government of India announced in January 2018," said the agency.
 
