Ludhiana: As the Ludhiana MC elections are round the corner, third gender people are planning to fight the elections to assert their identity.

 Feeling isolated, the community members will fight the elections for their place in society and bring in change in people’s attitude towards them.
 
 “Not many feel that we are humans and look down upon us as eunuch. We also want to live with honour and dignity. Give us a chance to live like any other man or woman in the society. The reason I want to fight elections is to earn respect for my community,” said 50-year-old Bibi Banto, who lives in Mundiyan Kalan area and wants to contest MC elections from   27.
 
 Banto said they also need basic facilities like pure drinking water, well-lit streets, proper drainage and sewerage facilities.
 
 The community members say that they can fight for better facilities as they have good connect with the residents.
 
 “We are the ones who know about birth of babies and marriages in various areas of the city. In a way we have better connect with the residents and know the hardships they have to face. As we frequently visit areas across the city, we know about the problems of different areas. This will help solving the problems as we can raise such issues with the agencies concerned after being elected,” said  , 60-year-old from Saleem Tabri, who wants to contest from Ward 86. Mangli added that apart from civic issues, they will work for cleaning the Buddah Nullah that has become a blot on the city in general and their area in particular.
 
 The community members say nobody from their community had fought elections in Ludhiana MC ever.
 
 “We took the decision to fight elections in Ludhiana and Phagwara after an NGO came forward to support us. We have already met the officials concerned in the administration many times and want them to include third gender in the list of those who can contest,” said Sonia Phagwara.
 
 Meanwhile,   is fighting to get third gender people their right to contest MC elections.
 
 “We have brought the issue to the notice of the district election authorities twice and have apprised them of the fact that as per Supreme Court judgment, they can contest elections. We will field many third gender candidates from various areas of the city and will help them arrange funds for their campaigning. Also we are filing a case in the high court to get them rights to contest MC elections in Ludhiana and Phagwara,” said  , chief of the NGO.
 
