LUCKNOW: Gearing up to take on the SP-BSP combine in 2019 Lok Sabha elections after a sobering bypolls defeat,   has begun the ground work in the crucial state of   by re-assessing its strength on grassroots level. 

 The saffron party has chosen its 38th Foundation Day - April 6 - for its workers to join ranks with RSS functionaries and hold meetings with party supporters at booth level to get feedback on the functioning of NDA governments at Centre and in state.
 
 BJP leadership has set a deadline of April 5 for the party functionaries to mobilize supporters at zonal and sector levels by highlighting the achievements of the NDA government at Centre in the last four years and initiatives taken by the Yogi Adityanath government in the state in its one year in office. The exercise would eventually culminate in a 'Jan Samvaad' being organized at booth level on the foundation day.
 
 "We are coordinating with all district-level functionaries to make the programme a success. The objective is to reach out to every ward and gram panchayat in the next 10 days," said Abhay Singh, BJP's in charge of  , which also comprise Varanasi, the parliamentary constituency of PM Narendra Modi. Sources said that the party will designate some functionaries as 'observers' who will give feedback of the response from supporters at ground level. 
 
 "This will give a fair idea about the actual strength," said a BJP leader.
 
 The RSS is also likely to provide all help to BJP in conducting the exercise, said sources. Soon after its grand success in 2014 Lok Sabha elections, BJP had structured its party set up on the lines of RSS, by dividing the state into six ' kshetras' (regions) - Gorakhpur, Kashi (Varanasi), Awadh (Lucknow and parts of central UP), Kanpur (clubbing it with Bundelkhand), Braj (Agra and Mathura) and  . The strategy, BJP functionaries point out, is much in line with the one adopted during 2017 UP assembly elections when the party deputed 10 to 21 workers in each of the 1.5 lakh booths. 
 
 
