PATNA: Flag hoisting, cultural events and skits marked 69th   celebrations at educational institutions here on Friday. 

 At M D College, rich tributes were paid to former member of Hindustan Revolutionary Association Shyam Birthwar, who was a contemporary of  , Chandrashekhar Azad and Ram Prasad Bismil. Birthwar’s 35th death anniversary coincided with the Republic Day. 
 
 College principal Kanhaiya Prasad Sinha said the unsung heroes like Birthwar were involved in many actions, such as Kakori Case of 1925, Benaras Conspiracy, Ooty operation and Gaya Conspiracy Case of 1933. He advised students to follow in the footsteps of great revolutionaries to protect the interests of the nation.
 
 Sankalp, a student group of National Institute of Technology-Patna, organised skits, poetry, singing, speech, dance and painting contests for the underprivileged. The NIT students called for communal harmony and peace in the country.
 
 Patriotic songs, dances and skits were highlights of the Republic Day celebrations at Central University of South Bihar. After the flag hoisting ceremony, VC H C S Rathore and professor incharge Arun Kumar Sinha addressed the gathering of university officials, faculty members, staff and students.
 
 A performance by school band marked the day at Notre Dame Academy. Students participated in march past which was followed by an action-drama performance by Julie School (school for underprivileged students) students and dance of primary students. Senior students performed dance on ‘Satyamev Jayate’. The tricolour was unfurled by founder of Tarumitra Fr Robert Athickal. School principal Sr Marry Jesy, primary wing headmistress Sr Mary Karuna and headmistress of Montessori wing Sr Namrata were present.
 
 Priyanshu, a Class VIII student of DAV Public School-Kankerbagh, enthralled the audience with his mesmerizing tabla play on the occasion. Khushi Kumari and   of Class XII were felicitated by school principal Hari Kishore Singh for their best performance at DAV Cluster Meet. The principal reminded the students about the contributions made by Dr   and B R Ambedkar.
 
 Students of Dr D Y Patil Pushpalata Patil International School presented skit against social evils like dowry, child marriage and child labour. School director C B Singh and principal Radhika K talked about the importance of the day.
 
 Students of Loyola High School, St Michael’s High School, St Xavier’s High School, St Dominic Savio’s High School, Mt Carmel High School, Don Bosco Academy, T Raza Girl’s High School, Bishop Scott Girl’s School, Krishna Niketan, St Karen’s High School, Patna Central School and other schools also celebrated the day amid patriotic fervour. 
 
 
