  : Less than three weeks before the February 27 assembly election, the BJP has brought out a 38-page 'chargesheet' against the state   for its fifteen years of alleged misrule.   KJ Alphons, who is the party's election in-charge for the state, released the document titled '15 Years of Loot, 15 Years of Destruction' here on Thursday. 

 Referring to the document as a report card highlighting the failures of the incumbent Congress government, Alphons said the destiny of the state now lies with the people. "Long enough has the Congress cheated the people, now no more," said the Union minister, adding that Meghalaya needs a government which will deliver on promises.
 
 The BJP 'chargesheet' named three ministers and a former MLA as being involved in corruption, with the alleged white ink education scam at the top of the list. PWD minister Ampareen Lyngdoh, who was the education minister when the scam took place in 2009-10, was also named in the police recruitment scam. In both cases, many undeserving candidates were recruited.
 
 The 'chargesheet' also accused former Independent candidate Julius Dorphang of running a sex racket at the guest house owned by home minister HDR Lyngdoh's son Nathaniel Osbert Rymbai. Dorphang was charged under POCSO and has been jailed since last year, it added. Dorphang has filed his nomination papers seeking re-election from Mawhati.
 
 Another Congress leader and a former MLA, Stanleywiss Rymbai, was charged for his involvement in a land scam in 2012, where an amount of Rs 8 crore was released to him after he claimed to be the rightful representative of the village without any authorization.
 
 "The Congress government in Meghalaya has resorted to favouritism in the tendering process for supply of sugar in the state leaving a loss of Rs 2.7 crore every month to the state's exchequer," the BJP 'chargesheet' further said, accusing civil supplies minister Clement R Marak of being involved in the 2016 sugar scam.
 
 The cases highlighted by the document are pending with varied courts.
 
 Giving a status report of the 2013 Congress manifesto, the Union minister said all the promises made by the Congress, including the promise of 10,000 jobs to youths and 10,000 jobs to women, have been 'undelivered'. The party also listed the 2016 sericulture scam, the 2012 supplementary nutrition scam, land allotment scam in New Shillong and the PHE scam.
 
 
