Coimbatore: Violating a Madras high court order and an order issued by the public works department, the city corporation has granted permission to an organisation to set up a park on the waterway near the Fun Republic Mall, on the Sanganoor Canal. The permission letter issued by the corporation, which is with TOI, shows that the civic body, on November 6, 2017, permitted the construction of the park and allowed P S Govindaswamy Naidu and Sons Charities to clear the debris and maintain the canal. This is in violation of the government order passed by the public works department and an HC order, which prohibit all construction blocking or on the waterways. The civic body has also stated resolution number 329 passed on December 12, 2014 in which it had mentioned that the reserve sites within the corporation will be handed over to residential welfare associations, corporate companies and NGOs for maintenance. But, social activists pointed out that the channel is not a corporation’s reserve site and it could not be handed over for maintenance. “The channel belongs to the revenue department and the bunds and tanks belong to the public works department. The corporation can only maintain, clean or remove encroachments. They cannot construct or permit any construction on channels, water bodies, lakes or revenue land,” said RTI activist SP Thiagarajan. He also presented photos and videos allegedly showing PSG Hospital letting out sewage and other waste into the lake. The Sanganoor Canal was handed over to the corporation for maintenance in 2004 as per GO number 206. The GO clearly stated that the corporation could not hand over the maintenance to any other party or organisation. Construction on the bunds of the canal was also strictly prohibited. Meanwhile, town planning officer Ravichandran said that the PSG Group came forward to clear the debris collected after the encroachments on the channel bunds were removed. “They said they will clear the debris and will beautify the place by setting up a lawn. We had clearly stated in the order that they should complete the work within 60 days and cannot construct anything on the bund. If they are letting out sewage or indulging in any illegal activity, we will take action against them,” he told TOI, adding that the corporation has cancelled the permission and stopped the work. The members of the P S Govindaswamy Naidu and Sons Charities and the representatives of the PSG Hospital could not be reached for comment despite various attempts.