NEW DELHI/LUCKNOW: The   is all set to reopen the original FIR registered in June last year in connection with the   case to ascertain why   MLA   was not probed by   as the survivor had claimed that she was gang-raped by the legislator and three others. 

 UP Police had registered FIR against three men from Makhi village — Shubham Singh, Brijesh Yadav and Awadh Narayan—who were alleged to have raped her between June 11 and June 20, 2017. The accused were later chargesheeted in August. The girl had alleged that Senger had also raped her at his residence on June 4, 2017. CBI sources told TOI that “they will investigate the first case, registered on June 20, 2017 by UP police, when the survivor first levelled the rape charges”. 
 
 The   police had initially registered this FIR under sections 363, 366, 376 and 506 (related to rape, abduction and criminal intimidation) and had added the POCSO Act and 376D (gangrape) two days later only. Subsequently, the UP police is allegedly to have delayed the medical examination of the girl and not sending the vaginal swab or her clothes to a forensic laboratory. 
 
 The UP police, while filing a chargesheet in August 2017, blamed Shubham, Brijesh and Awadh for the rape, on the basis of girl’s statement recorded before a magistrate. “We will examine the FIR and chargesheet filed by the UP police last year to find out if there were any lapses, whether she was sexually assaulted by more men and if there were any attempts from police to save any one,” said a senior CBI officer. 
 
 CBI has already re-registered three FIRs filed by UP police last week pertaining to alleged rape of the girl, custodial death of her father and rioting. Senger and his accomplice Shashi Singh, the woman who allegedly brought the rape survivor to Senger’s residence, have since been arrested. The fresh investigation is likely to be taken up by Tuesday, for which documents are being collected from Unnao police, added a source. 
 
 Meanwhile, in CBI custody, Senger is learnt to have claimed that he is “innocent” and is being framed by the girl and her family. The central agency has already recorded the statements of the girl, her mother, relatives and doctors who conducted medical tests. It will soon question Unnao cops as well. CBI is also investigating Senger’s claim that he was in Kanpur when the alleged rape had happened in Unnao in June 2017.
 
