CHENNAI: Nearly 400 Metropolitan   ( )   are not operated daily due to non-availability of crew, official data shows.

 Though nearly 1,500 drivers, conductors and technical crew members retired after 2015, not a single employee has been recruited during this period, show documents obtained from MTC. 
 
  
  
 
 High absenteeism among MTC staff has worsened the situation, says a research study in a journal published by the Institute of Road Transport (IRT), Chennai.
 
 Altogether, crew inadequacy has resulted in a loss of Rs 40 lakh per day, says the article which reviews the financial position of various state transport corporations including MTC.
 
 Transport workers’ unions say high absenteeism is recorded among staff who suffer from occupational diseases like blood pressure, diabetes, spondylitis and conjuctivitis primarily because of the pollution and irregular work schedule which affects their eating and sleeping habits. In addition, RTI data shows that drivers and conductors from workers’ unions affiliated to the ruling party are given desk jobs and other tasks like distributing bottles and maintaining security. The already overburdened crew are forced to work additional hours as a result, said V Pitchai from the government transport workers’ union.
 
 According to government norms, the ratio of manpower to buses should be 6.5 to 7.5. But the ratio is dwindling as nearly 500 MTC staff retire every year and are not being replaced by new recruits, said K Arumugam Nainar from the CITU-affiliated state transport union.
 
 Despite official data to the contrary, a senior MTC official told ToI that around 250 buses were affected daily and this was only due to absenteeism, not vacancies. “Indeed, we have a workforce in excess,” he said.
 
 K Anbazhgan from Nethaji Transport Union insisted that neither vacancies nor absenteeism were responsible, saying MTC was trying to conceal the fact that its buses are not fit for operation. “Many drivers and conductors return home without pay because adequate buses are not available for operation,” he said.
 
 The study also states that crew inadequacy has affected the punctuality of government buses to a considerable extent, resulting in an additional loss of Rs.20 lakh a day.
 
 “Punctual operations can increase the occupancy by up to 2%,” said SA Vijayakumar, retired managing director of Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC), Villupuram, who authored the study.
 
 However, drivers say the lack of punctuality is also due to traffic woes. “Given the traffic conditions, it is practically impossible for us to complete the trip on time and a delay of up to an hour is inevitable during peak hours,” said an MTC driver on the Koyambedu-Siruseri route.
 
 A passenger waiting at a bus stop will shift to other modes of transport like share autos or trains if buses are delayed by more than ten minutes, say experts, adding that once they shift, it is very difficult to bring them back.
 
 The study suggests that regular and continuous recruitment of employees is a must to strengthen the financial position of MTC.
 
 “Soon, new buses would be added to the existing fleet. Though corporations will overcome the shortage of drivers and conductors, lack of enough technical crew members will make operations very difficult,” said S Sampath from the state transport staff federation.
 
 
