HYDERABAD: One in every five adults in Hyderabad or roughly 20 per cent of the population suffers from hypertension today—say healthcare experts, pointing out that the rise could be attributed to the overall burden of high blood pressure which is also on the rise across the country and in   as well.

 
 A 2014 review of hypertension conducted by Anchala et al among Indian patients showed that about 33% urban and 25% rural Indians have high blood pressure.
 
 Of these, only about 25% rural and 42% urban Indians were aware of their disease. Only 25% rural and 38% of urban Indians are being treated for hypertension and only one tenth of rural and one fifth of urban Indian hypertensive population have their BP under control—show statistics.
 
 “The 2014 review of hypertension in different regions of the country showed that while one third of the urban population in India is hypertensive, less than half are aware of their hypertensive status and only about one in ten have this life-threatening condition under control,” said Dr  , CEO of Resolve, an initiative of  .
 
 “Hypertension is a leading risk factor for cardiovascular disease among adults in India. A recent report on India State-Level Disease Burden showed that non-communicable diseases (NCDs) have emerged as a major cause of premature death and disability in India. In Telangana, NCDs were estimated to have contributed to almost 60% of all diseases in 2016. Cardiovascular diseases were responsible for more than 38% of all deaths for people aged 40-69 years, which can be called the economically productive age group,” said Dr  , who also served as the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) between 2009 and 2017 and the New York City Health Commissioner between 2002 and 2009.
 
 According to healthcare experts, blood pressure increases with age, with salt intake, and with physical inactivity. However, elevated blood pressure, from whatever cause, is a silent killer that can be treated effectively with low-cost, safe, generic, effective medicines.
 
