KOLKATA: An airport that manages many complex operations, including the movement of nearly 50,000 flyers and 300 flights a day, continues to struggle with a task as simple as retrieving trolleys. While the arrival of 1,500 new trolleys has brought a reprieve, officials are aware that it may be a temporary one with sloppy retrieval staffers becoming even more lackadaisical and trigger ascarcity at the trolley racks.

 “We have procured 4,000 new trolleys. Of these, 1,500 have arrived. The rest should come within a few months. By June, there should be enough trolleys. The problem is nothing can be done to discipline the heavily unionised staffers. Their poor work ethics led to the crisis. If they slacken further, it won’t be long before the abundant situation turns into a shortage,” an official said.
 
 Avinash Tyagi, a senior manager at a multinational consultancy firm and a frequent flyer, echoed the worry. “New trolleys are fine but unless they manage better and retrieved promptly, the situation can never be resolved,” he said.
 
 A day after TOI reported the arrival of better trolleys, they were found scattered across the airport premises for hours. 
  found new and old trolleys lay in utter neglect or exploited for other purposes. Inside the terminal, a the trolleys are used as carts to carry waste bins. Outside the basement car park, drivers sat on trolleys chatting. Further down, a shopkeeper using a trolley to tow his wares to a godown. Outside the old terminal, a car washer used a trolley to tow water. “I’ve been using this trolley for quite sometime. I found it abandoned near the bus stand. No one has questioned me,” the car washer said.
 
 At an island between the cab parking lot and driveway to the arrival area, an   ( ) staffer was found seated comfortably on a trolley. The man said it was sturdy enough to withstand his weight.
 
 AAI officials are at wit’s end over how to remedy the situation. Time and again, trolley management contractors have quit midway, unable to control the unionised workforce. Now, AAI is trying to manage the trolleys themselves and admit getting the retrieval men to do their job is an uphill task.
 
 Eighty men are on contract retrieve the trolleys from spots where passengers leave them. “The challenge is in the arrival area as the trolleys have to be recovered from various spots like the pavement along the driveway, underground parking lot and bus stand. We’re trying to restrict them from being taken beyond certain points,” said another airport official.
 
 
  
 
