NAGPUR: After sitting on the case for 14 years, Nagpur University (NU) and Dhanwate National College ( ) have reached out to assistant professor Amol  , whose six-day pay of around Rs900 was cut by the college where he was employed as a peon in 2003.

 On February 14, TOI reported how DNC evaded NU’s highest decision-making body’s order following the Grievances Committee’s recommendation for restoration of the pay.
 
 In its letter dated February 16, NU sternly warned the college and Shri Shivaji Education Society of penalizing it if the 2012 decision taken by the   is not implemented immediately.
 
 Interestingly, the university has taken a tough stance against the trust on which a hefty fine of Rs10 lakh was imposed by the Management Council on January 22.
 
 DNC too had written to Raut saying that the case will be placed before its local management on February 20. In its letter, the college also informed Raut about his other five appeals regarding salary deducted on different pretext during his employment there.
 
 DNC principal Baban   didn’t respond to TOI’s calls.
 
 Sources from DNC said the trust has ruled in favour of Raut and the principal has been asked to release the dues immediately. Taywade is retiring by month end.
 
 Raut joined the college as a peon on daily wages in 1992. He continued studies at the same college while working. He completed his BA from DNC and completed MA as an external student. Then, he registered for PhD at Barkatullah University, Bhopal. For research work, he had to travel to Bhopal and had applied for leave from December 7 to 12, 2003.
 
 However, he couldn’t join on December 13 and applied for leave for two more days. However, Taywade refused and treated all six days as without pay.
 
 After the college did not heed to his pleas, Raut moved NU grievances committee in 2004. On September 17, 2007, the committee upheld Raut’s appeal and recommended restoration of pay worth Rs900 (approx). On October 18, 2012, the Management Council approved the committee’s decision and directed the college to implement it within 15 days. But, DNC didn’t release the pay until February 20.
 
 
