NAGPUR: In an unprecedented order that would end the monopoly and alleged arrogance of   Board over loading and unloading works, the Nagpur bench of   allowed a private firm to hire workers from outside for the same work.

 A division bench comprising justices   and Arun   also asked the state government to provide police protection to the petitioner firm, at latter’s risk and cost, if it applies. 
 
 The move comes after workers from ‘Nagpur and Wardha Mathadi and Unprotected Labour Board’ refused to do the work citing lower wages.
 
 “As the respondent board expressed its inability to assist the petitioner after its workers are not ready and willing, we permit petitioner to get work done through a willing gang and employ additional labour on same terms and conditions for carrying it out,” the judges stated.
 
 The court’s orders came after petitioner firm —  , approached it for second time through counsel Firdos Mirza, after Mathadi labourers refused to unload rakes which were waiting at the Nagpur railway station since long. 
 
 Mirza pointed out that a gang of workers was ready and willing to unload, but the other gang refused to do it and was creating obstacles in work.
 
 Mathadi board counsel argued that the petitioner is depositing wages only at minimum rate, that too only for 28 employees. He said the board was earlier deputing about 178 labourers in rotation and their wages on tonnage basis were being deposited.
 
 Mirza contended that there was no need of such large number of workers due to use of cranes to load and unload. He accused the board of demanding excessive wages despite the fact that HC had settled the issue in earlier plea after granting opportunity to the Mathadi Board to levy minimum rate of wages. “Accordingly, at that rate required number of workers are being paid,” he said
 
 “We find that fact of petitioner employing only 28 labours is not in dispute. The material, therefore, demonstrates no need of 150 more workers for unloading work. In this situation, we direct respondents to file their replies to this application within a week,” justices Dharmadhikari and Upadhye stated.
 
 After court’s order, Mirza pointed out that about 10 more rakes are due to arrive in the next 48 hours and prayed for extending similar benefits for unloading them. “In this situation, we extend our order to those 10 rakes mentioned in the petitioner's civil application,” the judges said, before directing registry to supply authenticated copy of its orders to the respondents — board and state government.
 
 
