THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The indefinite agitation by 29-year-old Sreejith, already into its 765
  day, seeking a proper investigation into the alleged custodial death of his brother, saw a surge of support in social media and forced the government to once again demand a   probe.

 The chief minister’s office on Saturday said the government would approach the CBI to probe the death of Sreejith’s brother   at Parassala police station in May 2014. In July last year, CBI had refused the state government’s request to take up the case.
 
 Social media users started a campaign to support Sreejith after his indefinite agitation in front of the Secretariat here crossed 760 days. A Facebook collective is scheduled to gather at the agitation venue on Sunday evening at 5.30 pm offering solidarity. Several youths have already started gathering at the spot. On Friday, DYFI activists turned up to offer support, while on Saturday it was the turn of Yuva Morcha activists to observe a dawnto-dusk hunger strike.
 
 
 
 
 The   had ruled out the police’s claim that Sreejeev died of poisoning and observed that the injuries on his body hinted at custodial torture. The SPCA also directed the government to grant an interim relief of Rs 10 lakh to Sreejeev’s family.
 
 On May 19, 2014 Sreejeev was taken into custody after being accused of stealing a mobile phone. He was admitted to medical college hospital the next day, the police claiming that he consumed poison inside the lockup. He died at the hospital the following day. Sreejeev’s family alleged that his arrest was part of a conspiracy between the police and the family of a girl with whom the youth was in love. Parassala ASI Philipose, who was a relative of the girl, orchestrated the arrest, so that they could keep him away from the wedding of the girl to another man.
 
 Even though the government had initiated department-level disciplinary action against the officers involved in the alleged crime, they secured a stay order against the action from the high court.
 
 On Saturday, Rajya Sabha member Rajeev Chandrasekhar issued a statement saying that he had written to Union home minister   seeking his urgent intervention by way of expediting a CBI investigation into the alleged custodial death. Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala and   state president Kummanam Rajasekharan too visited Sreejith on Saturday. Ramesh Chennithala, however, had an embarrassing moment at the protest venue when a friend of Sreejith reminded him of his apathetic attitude when Chennithala was home minister in the UDF government. The friend publically recalled how Chennithala, when told about Sreejith’s decision to launch an agitation near the state’s administrative headquarters, ridiculed him by saying that he would have to brave mosquitoes and dust.
 
 
