Nagpur: In a major thrust to promote green initiatives, Nagpur division of Central Railway launched two big projects for energy and water conservation which will save Rs2.19 crore for the railways annually.

 One of the projects launched by divisional railway manager (DRM) Brijesh Kumar Gupta on Saturday includes shifting to head-on generation (HOG) rake for Nagpur-Amritsar AC Express. The same rake will operate as Nagpur-Pune and Pune-Amravati.
 
 The new rake was flagged off by seniormost shunting master Pappu Ramchandra in the presence of chief electrical & signalling engineer (CESE) Sanjay Waghmare. ADRM Trilok Kothari, SrDEE Namdeo Rabde, SrDE (coordination) Pawan Kumar Patil and others were present. This is the first HOG experiment across the Central Railway.
 
 “In the HOG system, power is tapped from the locomotive and fed to the train through inter-coach coupler. There are many advantages with this system. It will help curb noise and air pollution too. Indian Railways Research Designs & Standards Organization (RDSO) is looking for large-scale implementation of HOG,” said Gupta.
 
 According to officials, nine new coaches have been brought from Mumbai while three coaches were modified to suit the technology. The new rake will draw power from overhead electric (OHE) line and supply to the coaches. Earlier, energy was supplied through diesel generator sets and it used to cost Rs18 per unit while now it will cost Rs5.75 per unit. “We will save huge money by cutting power bills,” they said.
 
 Sources said the next step would be to remove these diesel generators and replace them by two coaches. “If 120 berths are added through two coaches, it would bring an additional revenue of around Rs48 crore for the railways annually,” they added.
 
 Another project to recycle sewage water for railway installations at Ajni was commissioned by DRM Gupta at Gajanan Nagar near Narendra Nagar RUB. The Rs1.20 crore project will save water bills by over Rs19 lakh annually.
 
 The plant will recycle 6 lakh litre water per day. Water treated in the plant will be supplied for washing coaches and cleaning tracks and platforms at Ajni. The recycled water will also be used to maintain playgrounds and gardens on Ajni railway premises. This is the second such plant in Nagpur division. The first one is based in Guardline area near the railway station.
 
 
