LUDHIANA: When even the state government’s education department turns a blind eye to the needs of government schools, particularly of basic infrastructure, it is the NRIs who have always come to their aid. The Government Primary School for Girls, Ayali Kalan — which has five classes of primary, and one pre-primary school — has been facing a tough time running the school. Due to shortage of classrooms, one class attends school in the open, while another sits in a borrowed classroom of the middle school. This shortage happened when the education department introduced the pre-primary class in schools last November.

 In this situation, two NRIs of the village (who are settled in California since 1984) lend a helping hand to the school. The   brothers —   (62) and Daljeet Singh (60) — who hail from the village, relocated to California decades ago. They donated Rs 1.50 lakh for the construction of a classroom. 
 
 The two brothers, who are transporters in the US, came to the city 10 days ago to organize ‘Akhand Path’, as Daljeet lost his 29-year-old ailing son. In his memory, he wanted to make some donation, but then one day, he visited a primary school of the village. When he saw small kids there attending classes in the open, he immediately decided to construct a classroom for them in the memory of his son.
 
 Daljeet said: “We visit our village once a year, and this time, we had come to organize ‘path’ for my son. He was bed-ridden and passed away last November. Every time, we used to organize medical camps for villagers, or donate money to the village gurdwara. However, this time when I and my elder brother   visited this school, we felt sad about children and the school’s condition.”
 
 Amarjeet added: “The school in-charge   told us that one class is attending school in a borrowed classroom of the middle school, while another class was sitting in the open. If I talk about the government schools of California, then I must say they indeed are a 100 years ahead of us. I too studied in a government school, but now there is a need to improve infrastructure and motivate students.”
 
 Inderjeet said: “Students have faced a tough time, however teachers kept making efforts for them. Last year, with contribution from all teachers, a partition was made in one classroom, and two classes were adjusted in it. Then, one classroom was borrowed from the middle school.”
 
 Daljeet said he had told the school in-charge to identify a meritorious student, and they would bear the expenses of her education for a year. Amarjeet said: “Rather than donating money to religious places, we should all invest it in government schools. All our relatives are in California, but now after returning there, we will make sure they all contribute money to help us develop this school.” 
 
 
