When a hyperloop, a near supersonic transport system, becomes a reality it could cut the time people take to travel between two cities to an eighth (down to only 12.5%) the time it currently takes by rail or road. That, for instance, would reduce the travel time between Chennai and Bengaluru to only 25 minutes.

 Students from a city college are developing a passenger pod that could do just that; while perhaps turning out one of the first indigenously developed capsule for such a project.
 
 
 The 20-member team from   is developing a prototype of the passenger pod, which will be tested at the   facility in the US later this year. The team will first test a single-seater pod, onefourth the size of its prototype, by the end of this month at a 25m open-air track in the city. “We wrote to SpaceX and they have agreed to test our pod at their facility. Once we fabricate the capsule, we will get a date for the trials,” said Hardhik  , captain of  , the team from the university.
 
 In February this year, Virgin Hyperloop One signed an agreement with the   government to build a hyperloop facility linking Mumbai, the   and   by 2024.
 
 According to the students, the pod will operate on the same principle as the one designed and tested by Virgin Hyperloop One. Magnetic levitation will help the pods float just above the track and motors will propel them through a lowpressure tube at extremely high cruise speeds.
 
 “We are fabricating a linear induction motor, which is considered an ideal propulsion source. The concept is the same but our components will be used differently,” said Routray.
 
 While developers are working to achieve a maximum speed 1,200km/hr-plus, the students are aiming at about onethird of that speed in their first test. The Hyperloop One capsule achieved a speed of 387kmph in the third phase test in December 2017.
 
 “We will use fibre or metal matrix composites for the shell,” Routray said.
 
 The team now has ?12 lakh in pooled resources, against a requirement of about ?70 lakh to build the prototype. Once the team tests its pod in the US, it hopes, it will receive financial assistance from the Centre, with nearly ?380 crore required to build a test track.
 
