PATNA: Most wanted Subodh Singh and four other notorious criminals were arrested by the Special Task Force ( ) commandos after two separate encounters with exchange of at least 30 rounds of fire in the city on Friday night. Altogether 30kg gold was recovered from their possession.

 Subodh and his lawyer Neeraj Pandey were arrested after an encounter with the STF near Jalalpur City under the Rupaspur police station area. On Subodh’s information, raids were conducted on a Pushpanjali Enclave flat at Ram Nagri on Ashiana-Digha Road. STF nabbed four criminals after heavy exchange of fire with them and seized huge cache of arms and ammunition from their hideout.
 
 Sources said Subodh is also wanted by Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh,  , Jharkhand and   police. He was running an organized interstate gang involved in looting gold from the lockers of non-banking financial companies. Sources said two inspectors, a sub-inspector and a constable of STF suffered fractures during the encounter. “One of the criminals at Ram Nagri jumped off the second floor of the building during the raid and was seriously injured. He has been admitted to a private hospital,” sources said.
 
 The first encounter took place after the STF, on specific inputs, started checking vehicles on Jalalpur City road and signalled an i20 car to stop. “When the STF commandos opened the car gates, Subodh open fired. He jumped into a drainage nearby. The other criminals travelling in another vehicle also opened fire and managed to escape,” sources said.
 
 They said Subodh had looted gold from Barrackpore and Asansol in West Bengal and from Jaipur last year. He was also involved in another gold loot in Kolkata, sources said, adding Subodh was running one of the most organized criminal gangs in north India. Sources said Jaipur and Kolkata police had visited the state several times last year to nab Subodh. 
 
 “A team led by a DCP ranked officer of Jaipur police had reached Patna last year to arrest Subodh,” sources said, adding Jaipur and Kolkata police were informed.
 
