PILIBHIT: In a first, Pilibhit   ( ) will have a fully equipped rapid rescue team to conduct operations in a situation of man-tiger conflict.

  The   (WTI) on Monday has provided PTR with a rapid rescue team (RRT) comprising a biologist, one sociologist, one veterinary surgeon and a field assistant apart from a rapid response vehicle and equipment to conduct rescue operation.
 
  The step was taken as part of an effort by forest officials to mitigate man-tiger conflict in Pilibhit that has so far claimed 24 lives of villagers over an 18-month period. Prior to this, the Wildlife Fund for Nature (India) had coordinated with PTR to launch a van mitra programme to assist the forest officials in their mission.
 
  According to WTI’s programme head of “Tarai tiger project” PC Pandey, the current programme is funded by US Fish and Wildlife Service, an American organization that assists domestic and international programmes on protection, conservation and enhancement of diverse wildlife and their habitats. This organization will also be funding recurring expenses of the team and rapid response programme initiated in Pilibhit, Pandey said.
 
  In the presence of conservator of forest of Bareilly circle Pinaki Prasad Singh, divisional forest officer of PTR Kailash Prakash, divisional director of social forestry Adarsh Kumar and other forest officials, the WTI programme head handed over the especially designed rapid response vehicle, one highly sensitive quadcopter equipped with remote sensing system and high quality camera, one advanced tranquilizing gun, darts, three flashlight-free camera traps, one weighing machine to take the weight of any tranquilized tiger and apparatus and tools for shifting of tiger to a rescue centre to the forest authorities.
 
  "The biologist will carry liability to locate the tiger with help of necessary equipment in case of a big cat straying out of the forest while the sociologist will be responsible for mob management in case of any incident of man-tiger conflict. The veterinary surgeon will be liable for conducting comprehensive medical checkup of tranquilized tiger, detect its physical injuries or deformities to elicit the reason behind a tiger's straying,” said Pandey.
 
  Prompt rescue facilities is essential to ensure peaceful co-existence of humans and wildlife in areas situated near PTR, Pandey added.
 
  Regarding cropping patterns adopted by farmers in Pilibhit in terms of massive sugarcane cultivation in fields adjacent to PTR, the sociologist will be entrusted to impress upon villagers to switch over to other crops for imposing effective control on tigers' straying into sugarcane fields. This would be a key factor to be targeted by WTI in mitigating man-animal conflict, Pandey said.
 
 
  He added another RRT was functioning in Dudhwa Tiger Reserve.
