LUDHIANA: In suggestions sent to the local bodies department, civic officials have proposed to impose commercial charges even on quarters, PG units, and hostels, while recovering property tax. They have also suggested a separate section be made for small  . The department had sought suggestions from   officials to increase   collection from various sources, so officials drafted suggestions and sent them for review.

 They have suggested that quarters constructed by people where migrant labourers reside in large numbers, PG units, and hostels for students and working girls and boys were totally commercial. The owners generate money, but property tax from them is being charged as residential, and in many cases, there is no tax on some of the properties. Therefore, these should be dealt as commercial units, and the department should be allowed to recover property tax at 7.5% of annual rent from the owners.
 
 Further, in commercial properties, there are two categories at present. One is multiplexes and malls, and the other is single unit commercial properties. Shopping complexes at present have been clubbed with multiplexes and malls. From the first category (multiplexes and malls), the department is recovering Rs 15 per square feet, but most shopping complexes have separate owners on each floor, and the area is smaller than malls or multiplexes. Those people do not clear the pending property tax or file wrong returns just to save their money. Therefore, a separate section should be there for shopping complexes (one unit multiple owners) and people should be asked to pay Rs 6 per square feet, so that more people pay tax.
 
 Meanwhile, MC superintendent   said they had sent their suggestions to the government, which would now decide whether these should be implemented or not. Notably, in the draft sent by the local bodies department, there was a proposal to end property tax exemption for houses up to 125 square yards and vacant plots. Along with this, several other modes were suggested to recover more tax amount from various heads. 
 
 
