KOLKATA: Students may be smart but the council that conducts   and   exams have got smarter.

 The   (CISCE) has barred class-X and class-XII board examinees from wearing smartwatches and digital watches and has decreed that they can wear only   wristwatches to the exam hall.
 
 The council does not let students use calculators in ICSE exams (for class X) but allows them to do so in the class-XII exams. But, in the ISC exams as well, there are restrictions; students can use calculators of only one particular make. The council now wants to preclude any chance of students taking advantage of technology to cheat their way through exams.
 
  
 
 “Some smartwatches and digital varieties have in-built calculators. Chips and modern gadgets can also contain data and information, which can be used by students. The council does not want this to happen,” Rammohan Mission School principal Sujoy Biswas said, explaining the rationale behind the decision.
 
 “The CISCE forbids use of any tool that can be used to get an unfair advantage. The council has now specified what cannot be used,” he added.
 
 Another menace that has influenced this decision is the internet connectivity that smartwatches have. Principals have also pointed out the scope for misuse of fitness gadgets, which are primarily health monitors with enhanced features. 
 
 “Health bands or smartbands can be connected to the internet. So, in our school, we do not allow students to wear such health-monitoring bands. Smart watches, of course, are also on the list of barred items,” The Heritage School principal Seema Sapru said.
 
 Wireless earplugs are another device that has attracted teachers’ and schools’ attention. “We are now extra cautious because students have been found to have synchronised the wireless earphones they wear with mobile phones that may be at other locations,” a South Kolkata school teacher said.
 
 Modern High School for Girls director Devi Kar agreed with the CISCE decision. “I don’t think there should be any objection. Smartwatches should be used only off campus,” she said.
 
 But the council has not restricted its dos and don’ts to only modern gadgets. It anyway does not let candidates carry writing boards to exam halls and has limited the use of opaque pencil boxes; students are told to carry transparent pouches instead.
 
 
