KOZHIKODE: Over 2,000 forest staff will fan out to the forests looking for signs and sightings of tigers in the most elaborate and hi-tech count of the wildcats to be held in the state as part of the All India Tiger Estimation 2018, which will commence from February 2. 

 The census teams formed for each of the 700 forest blocks comprising tiger reserves, wildlife sanctuaries and territorial divisions spread across over 7,000 sq km area will complete the first phase by February 9.
 
 The first phase of tiger estimation would see the carnivore and mega herbivore sign survey, in which teams would walk through each forest block for three days continuously to record signs like tiger tracks, scat or scrapes left by tigers on trees. 
 
 Also, the teams would mark transects measuring 4km each and would walk along the transects for two days and would look for direct sighting of animals and would also record other data like presence of co-predators, elephants and ungulate abundance to quantify prey base. Also, habitat evaluation like number of trees and human disturbance, if any, will be also conducted during the eight-day exercise.
 
 "For the census, we have identified around 700 blocks in Kerala with each block comprising around 10-12 sq km. Three field staff will be gathering data from each block and apart from the forest staff we have roped in 250 trainees from forest training schools. We have undertaken elaborate training exercise as part of the survey," chief conservator of forest and the state nodal officer for tiger estimation in Kerala K   said. He said the tiger estimation process has for the first time become hi-tech with the data related to carnivore signs and habitat being digitally recorded using the mobile app called M-STriPES (Monitoring System for Tiger-  ) developed by Wildlife Institute of India, Dehradun, in 140 blocks.
 
 "Since we don't have enough Android-based smartphones, we will be using the app to record data only in the two tiger reserves of Periyar and   as mandated by  . It would enable the staff to take photographs and their GPC coordinates. The digital recording of data would generate more reliable data and also make the process easier and more scientific and it can be uploaded to the main server and to WII when the phone is plugged to the computer," he added. 
 
 The rest of the blocks would follow the earlier data sheet method. The national tiger estimation held in 2014 had found the state home to 136 tigers. 
 
 
