The 10th Royal Stag Mirchi Music Awards night was an evening of celebrating the best and the most talented in the field of music. Some of the best, most heart-touching, super-groovy songs of the year 2017 bagged the coveted awards and the talented musicians of our country walked away with the golden statue.
‘Hawaayein’ from ‘Jab Harry Met Sejal’ bagged the Song Of the Year, while Arijit Singh got the Best Male Vocalist Of The Year.   was awarded the Best Music Composer Of The Year and Irshad Karmil bagged the Best Lyricist Of The Year -- all for the same song.
 ‘Jab Harry Met Sejal’ also won the Album Of The Year Award.
 Shreya Ghoshal won the Best Female Vocalist Of The Year for ‘Thodi Der’ from ‘Half-Girlfriend’.
 While Sonu Sood gave the award to Shreya, Ila Arun gave away the award to Arijit which, in his absence, was picked up by Pritam.
 The Lifetime Achievement Award was given to the legendary Bappi Lahiri who got a standing ovation from the audience. Bappi da, who has been in the music industry since the last 46 years, had the enthusiastic crowd groove to his still powerful live performance.
 The Royal Stag Make It Large Award was bagged by Ayushmann Khurrana and Miss World 2017 Manushi Chillar presented the award to him.
 Upcoming Male Vocalist Of The Year was bagged by Asit Tripathy for the song 'Tu Banja Gali Benaras Ki' from the movie 'Shaadi Mein Zaroor Aana' and the Upcoming Female Vocalist Of The Year was bagged by the young Meghna Mishra from Secret Superstar for the song 'Main Kaun Hoon'.
 Upcoming Music Composer of the Year was bagged by Pritam's music group Jam 8 for 'Zaalima' from 'Raees'.
 The Upcoming Lyricist of the Year was Santanu Ghatak who won the award for the song 'Rafu' from the film 'Tumhari Sulu'.
 The Indi Pop Song of the Year was 'Man Marziyan' from the album with the same name, while the Raag Based Song of the Year was awarded to 'Sunn Bhavara' from the film 'Ok Jaanu'.
 
  
  
 
 AR Rahman’s 25 years of melodious musical journey was celebrated on stage. The maestro who has won almost every award a musician can get globally including 15 Filmfare, 4 National, 2 Academy and Grammy each and a Bafta. 
 Young singers paid tribute to Rahman while the hosts Meyianh Chang and Akriti Kakkar were perfect.
 
  
  
 
 
 Some of the other awards were as follows:
 Programmer & Arranger Awarded to Clinton Cerejo and Hitesh Sonik for 'Julia' from 'Rangoon'.
 Sound Engineer of the Year was bagged by Bhaskar Sharma, Chakir Hussain and Praveen Murlidhar for the single 'Darmiyan'
 The Best Background Score of the Year was awarded to Vishal Bhardwaj from 'Rangoon'.
 Listener's Choice Song of the Year was awarded to 'Phir Bhi Tumko Chahunga' from 'Half Girlfriend'.
 Listener's Choice Album of the Year Film was bagged by 'Jagga Jasoos'.
 
  
  
 
 The Jury Award for Outstanding Contribution to Hindi Film Music was given to the Late Gorakh Sharma and his nephew Mithoon came up to the stage to collect it. Host Sonu Nigam requested the audience to observe one-minute silence as respect to the late musician.
 
 Jury Award for Best Album of Golden Era (1957) was given to 'Pyaasa'.
 Last but not the least, the Jury Special Recognition Award was given to Ameen Sayani. The entire crowd were wowed by the very spirited and witty radio jockey who shared several interesting anecdotes and regaled the audience.
 
 
