Jaipur: The Special Operations Group ( ) of Rajasthan police on Thursday arrested a couple wanted for their alleged involvement in the fake insurance racket which was busted last week.

 Jitendra Singh (37) and his wife Sudha (36) were arrested from their hometown in Mainpuri district of Uttar Pradesh.
 
 According to DIG Sanjay Shrotriya, the couple have been accused of getting insurance claim worth Rs 14 lakh through fraudulent means.
 
 Singh faked his death in a road accident with the help of six-member gang which included an assistant sub-inspector (ASI) and a government doctor based in Dausa district. The gang purchased as many as six insurance policies from different companies. Sudha was made nomine on all insurance claims. In August 2017, the gang faked Singh’s death in a road accident in Dausa, the ASI forged daily police record dairy to mark Singh’s death in an accident. Doctor Satish Khandelwal then prepared a fake post-mortem report (PMR) in which he referred Singh’s death due to excessive bleeding and internal injuries in a road accident.
 
 A death certificate was obtained by other gang members through which they managed to get Rs 14 lakh of insurance claim, including Rs 2 lakh each from Pradhan Mantri Jeevan Suraksha Yojna (PMJSY) and Jeevan Jyoti Beema Yojna.
 
 As senior official said that the couple’s involvement duping other insurance companies has come to the fore. “In Dausa itself we have come across as many as three cases in which the couple got fake insurance claim. We are currently interrogating them to get more details about the gang,” an official informed TOI.
 
 The SOG on February 10 had arrested six persons, identified as Chaturbhuj Meena, a lawyer from Dausa; Rajesh Kumar, a banker based in New Delhi; Raghu Raj Singh, insurance surveyor based in New Delhi; Dr Satish Khandelwal, government doctor in Dausa; Yash Chauhan, another aide ; and Ramesh Chand, an assistant sub-inspector with Dausa police.
 
 “The matter had come to light when an insurance claim inspector went to Kotwali police station and found that Singh’s death was forged. A case was filed and six persons were arrested, but the couple were on run,” said Shrotriya.
 
 
