GURUGRAM: On a bright, chilly Friday morning, with the whole country bedecked for pageantry, women in   arrived in black for the   residential society’s Republic Day celebrations. They were silently protesting the abysmal state of women’s safety and rise in cases of rape in  .

 The over 150 women, who came together to express their concerns by wearing black, announced the formation of a pressure group to fight for improved safety measures and basic infrastructure in the city, that is needed to make the city safe for women.
 
 Many of the women said their fear was heightened after last Sunday’s atrocity near Golf Course Road Extension, where a woman was dragged out of her car and raped in front of her husband and brother-in-law. “I’m a working woman. I feel unsafe travelling at night after hearing such incidents. We request authorities to shut down all liquor vendors on Sohna road after 10pm. We also want police to increase patrolling at night, with women cops,” said artist Puja Mishra, a resident of Nirvana Country. 
 
 She spearheaded a campaign, “Enough Is Enough” on social media to seek support for the issue.
 
 Ruchi Tushir, another resident and a working professional, also demanded a clampdown on liquor vends. “Absence of round-the-clock patrolling, poorly lit roads with vast open spaces nearby — these are perfect for   against women. And the problem is exacerbated by liquor vends and ‘thekas’ that have mushroomed all over the city. On Republic Day, we want to highlight this threat to authorities and seek their support to make Gurugram a safe city for women,” she said.
 
 Another resident Archana Sinha said, “We want to protest rise in crime against women. We want a safer community and country. Republic Day reminds us we have laws and rules on which our country should be run. Yet, when we look at crime in our country, especially those against women, they appear lacking.Apart from sensitising people, we also need better laws to work as deterrents.”
 
 The group is planning to meet police and civic authority officials to push for safety and infrastructure-related issues. 
 
 “We’ll meet all stakeholders to ensure the city becomes safe for women. Also, we’ll bring together women in each society and area to find out pressing issues in each neighbourhood. I’m sure if Gurugram’s women are united, a lot can be done,” said Mishra.
 
 
