CHANDIGARH: The   has made it clear that the FIR and probe of special investigation team (SIT) comprising several central agencies into the multi-crore alleged scam in the functioning of International Customer Related Management Services Private Limited (ICRMS) cannot be quashed merely because the parties have resolved the dispute amicably.

 The HC was of the view that there has been serious violation of the provisions of the   (PMLA) 2002, the Companies Act, the Income Tax Act and the Indian Penal Code, and therefore “such offences cannot be considered to be mere private one or of civil nature whereby they could be resolved by the parties inter-se through some sort of settlement”.
 
 Justice Fateh Deep Singh passed these orders while dismissing a bunch of petitions filed by some politicians, businessmen, officers and other influential persons of Punjab, who are allegedly involved in the scam.
 
 They had approached the HC seeking quashing of FIR and the probe carried by SIT, on the grounds that there were some misunderstandings due to which these FIRs had been registered and now the matter has been resolved with mutual settlement.
 
 Turning down their pleas, Justice Singh observed that the investigations by three agencies is moving towards some tangible results and at this stage interfering in the fair investigations being relentlessly carried out by these premier agencies would not only stifle the investigations but would also jeopardize larger interests of the state.
 
 “Keeping in view the heinousness and seriousness of allegations and the gravity of offences, which involve economic as well as societal aspects, it would certainly desist the court from taking any step towards quashing the FIRs,” observed the HC in its orders released on Saturday.
 
 The scam involves transfer of funds worth Rs 231 crore from the accounts of the company. Those allegedly involved in the scam are former   IAS officer G S Pirzada, former Talwandi Sabo MLA Jeet Mohinder Singh Sidhu and various top businessmen of the region. All of them are believed to have held key positions in ICRMS. Role of a former aid-de-camp (ADC) to the Punjab governor and a   officer is also under scanner.
 
 The petitioners had sought directions to set aside all the FIRs registered by the CBI in relation to the case and to disband the SIT constituted by HC in September 2015.
 
 The main ground taken by these bigwigs was that with the intervention of well-wishers, family and friends, the “misunderstandings” due to which these FIRs had been registered, were resolved amongst the petitioners and as a consequence of which, settlement agreement was entered into on August 17, 2017.
 
 It was further argued that the funds for the functioning of ICRMS were neither collected nor received and neither any government subsidies or money was got utilized in the case of ICRMS, and further investigations in the light of this settlement between the various sets of claimants, would be a futile exercise not leading to any conclusive and tangible results.
 
 Strongly contesting the petition, counsel for the CBI, Sumeet Goel, argued that any settlement between the accused does not absolve them of their criminal liability. 
 
 Goel informed that as many as six regular criminal cases have been registered in the scam and probe of SIT headed by CBI is at crucial stage. “Fictitious companies have been brought about by the persons where fictitious beneficiaries have found favour and the money is diverted through illegal means,” he had argued.
 
