Obviously elated, Surya adopts a mock formal tone to extend an invitation to her wedding. “I  , a transwoman, and  , a transman, have great pleasure in inviting you for our wedding in May.” The voice is still slightly masculine but the laugh betrays the joyous mood, as she confirms that the duo is making their preparations to be man and wife, perhaps the first   in the state to do so. They have the blessings of their parents and plan to register their union under the ‘Special Marriage Act’. 

 “I want our marriage to be registered legally and have a normal life as husband and wife. Let our marriage be a lesson and motivation for others in our community to choose their own life partner and lead a regular life as part of the society. I am sure it will happen as there is a change in attitude and more acceptance for the TG community in our society nowadays,” says groom-to-be Ishaan. A little reserved compared to the chirpy and vocal Surya, the 33 year old businessman who lives with his parents in Vallakkadavu had opted for the sex reassignment surgery two years ago. “It was my younger sister Shijina who stood by me after I had come to know about my real identity in my childhood. She made my parents and other family members including her in-laws accept and love me as their son. When I told them about my interest to marry Surya, my family gave me their blessings. When Surya’s parents also gave permission, things turned out well,” says Ishaan.
 
  
  
  
 He fell in love with 31-year-old Surya six months ago and proposed to her. “She is my first love and I fell for her strong opinions, attitude and independence. Last year I, my Umma (mother) and Surya went to attend a meeting of TJB at Kozhikode. That is when I came to know that we share the same wavelength,” adds Ishaan. He jokes that there is yet another factor that he likes about his fiancé. “I came to know that she is a good cook, so I can look forward to some mouth-watering dishes prepared by her”.
 
 Surya says that ever since she understood her real identity, she has been nurturing a dream to get married and have her own family. “It was Ikka’s wish to publicise the marriage and make it a legal one. As we belong to two religions, the marriage will be registered under the Special Marriage Act. We both respect each other’s religions as individuals and will continue to do so in future also. Love is our religion.” 
 
  
  
 
 
 Ask her why marriage is important and she explains, “We have been receiving lot of phone calls and messages in support from the transgender community as well as others after publicising our intention to get married. So I infer that there must be more people from our community who want to get married. Let our marriage be a trend-setter. There should be matrimonial columns for TG community in newspapers and websites. Married life is not only for sexual gratification or dependent solely on gender but it is built on the foundation of mutual love, respect and security,” says Surya, who hails from Mannanthala.
 
 It won’t be any grand affair but the couple are busy booking the hall and making other arrangements. “It will be a small ceremony. We have to find a good muhurtham for the thalikettu. We will invite all our TG friends to attend the event and bless us.”
 
 The Thiruvananthapuram couple want to have their honeymoon in Mumbai. Of course, there are long-term dreams too. “Being a woman, I want to have my own baby one day if there is any possibility. Our community doesn’t yet have the provision to adopt a child. But then, as per the custom in our community, I am already mother to 15 children in the TG community,” signs off Surya.
 
  
  
 
 
