 Rumoured to be a real life couple,   of 'Beyhadh' fame, and  , famous as Karan of ' ', came to Lucknow on Monday to promote their show 'Bepannaah' in which the two play a reel life couple. However, claiming to be just good friends, Jennifer and Sehban refrained from talking about their personal lives, instead the duo talked about their friendship. "I know Jennifer since last eight years. We both are happily single and want to stay that way right now. The idea is to love yourself first and then to love anyone else. That's because if you don't love yourself you can't love anyone else also. This is the whole idea of life, and we are trying to figure that out," said he, adding, "After knowing Jennie for so many years, I find her to be a very strong girl and I respect her for everything. As friends we share a lot of things like taking advice from each other, fighting at times on small things, but we've always been very good friends and that’s how we want to keep it. Rather than twisting the situations for us, it’s better to stick to friendship only."
Jennifer, who was earlier married to actor  , says she is quite happy staying single. "I don't really plan so much in life. When anything has to happen, it will happen. As of now, I am not seeing anyone. I am very lucky for all the love I receive in my life."
 
  
  Jennifer Winget and Sehban Azim At Lohia Park, Gomti Nagar, Lucknow (BCCL/ Farhan Ahmad Siddiqui) 
 
 Jennifer and Sehban have been spending quite a lot of time with each other and are usually spotted together at parties and events which made a lot of headlines. Discussing on how turning friendship into a relationship can affect that bond, Sehban said, "The relationship absolutely gets ruined once we turn friendship into a relationship. I’ve been into relationships before and eventually what happens is that you get too much into each other and then it spoils everything. I don’t understand relationships anymore as I always had bad experiences. I would rather say, all the experiences have taught me a lot about life. Moreover, I am in touch with all my exes and we are very good friends too, which my friends find weird."
 While Sehban made his debut visit to the city, it was a nostalgic moment for Jennifer, who has been here earlier. "I was very excited about coming to Lucknow not just because of the people but for the food because I am a die-hard fan of Lakhnawi food. The hospitality of the people here is very different from other towns and the infrastructure is too beautiful here. I would definitely like to come here for a holiday where I can eat without thinking and explore the beauty of the city properly," said Jennifer.
 Sehban’s first visit to the city was full of plans to have kebabs and also take them for his family and friends back home. "I have always heard that Lucknowites bahut tameez aur tehzeeb se baat karte hain, jo ki yahan aa ke maine sachh hote dekh bhi liya. Even the kids use 'hum' and 'aap' while talking to you," said the actor.
 
