Vadodara: Vadodara district’s score stood at 57.19% as Gujarat Secondary and Higher Secondary Education Board (GSHSEB) declared results of class XII general stream on Thursday. This year’s result is almost same as previous year which stood at 57.54%, even as the state average decreased by 1.27%. Overall 55.55% students cleared the exam across the state. Of the total 18,867 students, who had registered for examination in the district, 18,598 had appeared for the examination conducted in March this year. Of these, 25 students passed with A1 grade, 375 with A2, 1,064 with B1, 2,214 got B2 grade; while 3,280 and 2,718 students secured C1 and C2 grade, respectively. The students securing D grade stood at 955. While five students received E1 grade, 8,231 students were added to needs improvement category. As results trickled in, celebrations started in houses of most of the toppers in the city including that of Kushal Purohit, who got 99.98 percentile. “I want to become a chartered accountant and I have already started preparations for that,” said Purohit, whose father drives auto-rickhsaw for a living. “I was never tensed for board exams and unlike the popular trend of advance preparations, I started studying only when I entered in class XII,” added Purohit, who lives in Jawaharnagar Ankit Variya, who studied in Sardar Vallabhbhai Vidyalaya on Ajwa Road, was also ecstatic when he learnt that he has secured 99.93 percentile. “I had expectations that I will get good result because in class X too I had secured similar result, but this is overwhelming,” said Variya, who also aims to become a chartered accountant. Of the 16 examination centres in Vadodara district, Dabhoi examination centre registered lowest pass percentage at 42.38% while Waghodiya examination centre registered highest pass percentage at 74.21%. Boy makes single mother proud  Vadodara: Feroza Chaklawala washed clothes and utensils of several households to ensure that her son Mohammed Suhel Chaklawala gets proper education. Mohammed Suhel did not let her down when he informed her on Thursday morning that he has scored 99.96%in class XII general stream. Studying in Sardar Vinay Mandir School at Karelibaug, Mohammed Suhel’s father disowned the family when he was only seven-years-old. Since then Feroza and her three sons live with her parents. “I always felt that it was my duty not only as a mother, but as a father of my children that I continued working in different houses to earn a living. Today I am very happy and I have also decided that I will allow my son to study until he wants to,” said Feroza. She added that her father also helped her economically whenever there was a need. During vacations Mohammed Suhel also used to work in private company to contribute to the family’s income.  Jail inmate clears HSC Vadodara Central Jail has got the best result among all central jails in the state which were exam centre for the exam. While Vadodara Central Jail centre secured a result of 9.09%, not a single inmate of central jails of Ahmedabad, Surat and Rajkot could clear the exam. Out of 17 inmates of Vadodara Central Jail, who had registered for the exam, 11 appeared and one cleared it. Central Gujarat performs poorly While the results of science stream were some face saver for districts of Central Gujarat, the results of commerce stream declared on Thursday reflected a poor performance . Result of tribal-dominated Chhota Udepur was once again the lowest at 31.54%. Last year too it was at the bottom at 30.81%. Among other districts, Mahisagar scored 32.69%, Dahod 37.51% while Panchmahal scored 48.61% and Anand 50.53%. Of the 62,883 students from these districts who appeared in the exam, only two students got A1 grade and 38,322 students were in needs improvement category.