MUMBAI: While the state cabinet on Thursday gave its nod to ban plastic carry bags and other items, one society has already taken the lead and done it.

 Kandivli’s 21-storey Whispering Palms XXclusive Co-operative Housing Ltd banned   last year. It discourages members from using plastic spoons and cups at house parties. The society also started segregating waste following the BMC’s October 2 deadline last year.
 
 
  
 
 Society secretary T N Prabhu recounts how they brainstormed on implementation and decided to provide each flat with two bins and one bag. “We have dissuaded society members from using plastic. In case a flat owner uses the black bin liner, only garbage gets lifted by housekeeping staff,” said Prabhu.
 
 “The quantum of garbage feels lesser once segregated into separate categories,” said Rakesh Maria, society vice-chairman.
 
 Resident Arathi Maney, who was closely involved in drawing up plans for implementation of the project, has been closely monitoring if garbage is segregated and micro-segregated as well. This means paper and cardboard etc is sorted by housekeeping staff and sold to a scrap dealer, old clothes in a good condition are given to an NGO and non-expired medicines are given to a medical trust. E-waste is collected and a company has promised to give them jute bags or plants in exchange for 100 kg of the same.
 
 Sameera Vakil, another resident, said discarded books are neatly covered and placed in the common area for children to read.
 
 The society did face certain challenges in bio composting, but members said the BMC has been helping them out. Besides, the society is also receiving help from Shree Astha Mahila Bachat Gat, an NGO, to ensure their composting process is smooth and no foul smell emanates.
 
 BMC officer-on-special-duty for Swachh Bharat Mission, Shubash Dalvi said, “The segregation and composting model of the society has been impressive and we are only helping them fill the gaps. Such enthusiasm can go a long way in ensuring lesser waste reaches the city’s dumps.”
 
 
