PATNA: With the commencement of online submission of application forms for admission to the conventional   in   (PU), it has become quite clear that no entrance test will be held this year for admission to PG courses. The last date for online submission of forms is May 14.

 Earlier, it was believed that PU, which has been conducting entrance test for selecting candidates for admission to its undergraduate courses for the last several years, will hold entrance test for admission to the PG courses too. A couple of years back, the then chancellor,  , had asked PU to introduce entrance test for the post-graduation courses in 2017-18 session itself, but it could not be introduced owing to the unusual delay in commencement of the admission process. But, surprisingly enough, this could not be introduced even this year also for reasons best known to authorities concerned.
 
 The entrance test at the PG level could not be introduced this year following the directive of the present chancellor for implementation of CBCS at PG level from the current academic session, said PU registrar  .
 
 Moreover, introduction of entrance test for admission to the post-graduation courses will hardly serve any useful purpose as most departments of humanities and even some of social sciences do not receive sufficient applications for admission. In several departments, the number of students seeking admission does not touch even double figure, said a senior teacher of PU humanities faculty.
 
 The PG courses in which online applications have been invited for admission are  ,  ,  , MEd and LL M (regular conventional), master in rural studies, business administration, biochemistry, biotechnology, environmental science and management, social work, computer applications, women’s studies, journalism and mass communications, music and library and information science (self-financing PG degree courses); and PG diploma courses in public administration (regular), clinical psychology, applied criminology, human resource development, industrial safety management, computer applications, women and child welfare, women’s studies, yogic sciences and financial services (self-financing).
 
 A senior PU official, however, said the last date for online submission of applications forms for admission to PG courses might be extended beyond May 14 as the results of final BA, BSc and BCom Part III examinations of PU are unlikely to be published by this date. “The schedule of admission will be maintained at all cost and the classes of the new batch will start as scheduled from July 17,” he added.
 
