AHMEDABAD: Gujarat Ecological Education and Research (GEER) Foundation, Gandhinagar organized   on Concepts and Techniques of Landscape Ecology in Wetland Research on 01-01-2018 in the Conference Hall of GEER Foundation. The seminar was inaugurated by Shri Arvind Agarwal IAS, Additional Chief Secretary, Forests & Environment Department, Government of Gujarat.

 In his welcome address, R. D. Kamboj, IFS, Director, GEER Foundation gave the background of the seminar cum   which is on specific theme on landscape ecology for wetland research. He briefed about the topics to be covered during the seminar and workshop by various eminent resource persons viz. Prog. Brij Gopal of Centre for Inland Waters in South Asia, Jaipur, Prof. Jeffrey Hepinstall- Cymerman of Georgia University, USA, Dr. RAjendra Singh, Chairman Tarun Bharat Sangh, Alwar and Dr. Manu Bhatnagar of INTACH, New Delhi, Dr. Ajit Patnaik, IFS, Chilika Development Authority, Orissa and others.
 
 In his address, G. K. Sinha, IFS, PCCF, Wildlife, Gujarat State also emphasized about the importance of wetlands of Gujarat State and their status. In his inaugural address, Arvind Agarwal, IAS, ACS, Forests & Environment Department, GoG spoke about the ecological importance of wetlands. He said that the magnitude of population growth and drastic increase in urban centers have exerted tremendous pressure on wetlands of the country. Therefore, despite the efforts of central and state governments and NGOs like Wetlands International to conserve wetlands, they are being polluted, drained, filled and dredged due to the rapid pace of development. Owing to all such varied “ecological insults” of wetlands by the modern society, it has become necessary to save wetlands in multiple ways. Continuous research and monitoring using state-of-the-art strategies is one such way. Therefore, the involvement of researchers of the universities and the Govt. Departments is very vital for solution to the problem of wetland. He also emphasized that there should be policy of compensating the   in India along the lines of Clean Water Act of USA.
 
 There were Four presentations in the pre-lunch session followed by another Four presentations during post-lunch session on issues of status of wetland research in India, challenges of manages Ramsar Sites in India, Landscape approach for wetland conservation, management of rivers for people and ecological balance, urban wetlands and the status of environmental flows in India. The next Four days will be devoted to the Training Workshop on the concepts and techniques of landscape ecology in Wetland research which will spear headed by Prof. Jeffrey Hepinstall- Cymerman of Georgia University, USA.
 
 In this seminar cum training workshop, 90 participants drawn from various universities of Gujarat State, representative of other related Govt. Departments, researcher scholars and staff of Gujarat Forest Department and the GEER Foundation are participating.
 
 The topics like Introduction of landscape ecology, mapping wetland species habitat and systems, Modeling wetland species occupancy / abundance, basic concepts of landscape connectivity, movement ecology of wetland dependent species and resource selection with time series data for wetland species will be covered during the next Four Days from January 2-5, 2018. The seminar-cum-training workshop will prove to be highly useful in capacity building of the staff of the State Government and universities of the State as well as generating   about the conservation of wetlands in the State.
 
