Right along the busy main road near   in Sector 52, next to the Tau Devi Lal Biodiversity Park, the   has carved out what can only be described as a section of paradise within the concrete metropolis. Last week, north India’s biggest   was inaugurated here on the occasion of World Biodiversity Day. Spread across 19 acres. The Butterfly Park is home to 27 different varieties of butterflies, which were once commonly found in Gurgaon but are now on the verge of extinction. The park is an initiative by The Forest Department, while its operations are being run by a city-based NGO, Uthaan. However, due to the intense heat, many of the butterflies in the park have either died or moved to cooler regions, because of which, even though the park is open to public, it still awaits its winged friends. Calling it their off-season, park officials say that while they wait for the butterflies to return, they are running multiple engagement activities with residents.

  
  School students have been painting the walls of the park with butterfly-themed artwork
 
 The park has open areas with several varieties of plants, which have been carefully chosen to attract butterflies. “All the plants here are only those which different varieties of butterflies come to,” said a gardener at the park. An indoor conservatory space has been also built for the Indian Tiger Butterfly at the park, which has plants and spaces for breeding of the butterflies and feeding the caterpillars. However, if you are planning to head to the park right away to catch a glimpse of the butterflies, you might want to wait till the weather cools down. The rising temperatures have meant there are only very few butterflies here at present. The park was inaugurated on May 22, but due to the heat killing or driving away a number of butterflies, the administration decided not to introduce new ones till the mercury cools down. The administration of the park says there will be hundreds, if not thousands, of butterflies in the park in monsoon. “Think of it as our off season. There are still some butterflies in the park, but the majority will return in the monsoon. In the meantime, we are preparing the park for the monsoons,” says Sanjay Kaushik, founder of the NGO Uthaan which is operating the park.
 
  
  We captured an Indian Tiger Butterfly at the park
 
  
  
 
 In the absence of butterflies, park officials are trying various methods of crowd engagement to keep the place buzzing. School students from Gurgaon and Delhi come here on weekends to paint the walls of the park with butterfly-themed artwork. On Sunday morning, two students – Varini from DPS, Sector 45 and Shubhi from   – reached the park to paint a section of the wall. “We are painting a giant butterfly in the cubism style, using warm colours for the butterfly and cool colours for the exterior,” said Varini. The two friends said they heard about the park from acquaintances and got to know they were encouraging residents to get involved, which is how they decided to volunteer at the park. “We just want to do our bit and make the park more beautiful,” Shubhi added. Over the last few weeks, several school groups and even residents from the city have come and painted over half-a-dozen paintings on the walls of the park. The park administration is also running other resident engagement activities at the park currently. “We encourage people to come to the park on their birthdays and plant a sapling in their name. Your name would be visible on a plaque next to the plant. It is basically a way to get residents involved with the park and give them a sense of ownership,” says Sanjay Kaushik.
 
 
  
  The park aims to house 27 different kinds of butterflies
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
