GURUGRAM: A day after TOI reported — that a Class VII student of a well-known Gurugram school had threatened to rape his teacher and her daughter in an online post, while a Class VIII student of the same school had sent a mail to a teacher, asking her out for a candlelight date and sex — authorities woke up to the seriousness of the incident

 “The sexual harassment committee will conduct a thorough enquiry into this case,” said Prem Lata, district education officer. However, no FIR has been filed yet, as the victims haven’t come forward to file police complaints. 
 
 The Haryana State Commission for Protection of Child Rights (HSCPCR) said it is keeping a close watch on the entire incident.   said its sexual harassment committee will inquire into the case. HSCPCR member B K Goel said, “I’m waiting for the victims (teachers and student) to come forward. We’ll then take stern action. The child rights commission is keeping a strict vigil in this case. We’re looking at it as a case of bullying. Bullying can happen to anyone — classmates and even teachers. If a child indulges in such threats, then they can bully the principal too. It’s a cyber crime as well. If the parents don’t come forward and we act on our own, the alleged accused could get let off due to lack of evidence. But we haven’t received any complaint so far.”
 
 Even the   (NCPCR) has taken suo motu cognizance of the case. “NCPCR has taken suo motu cognizance of this case. We’ve asked the district child welfare committee (CWC) to submit a report after a probe. We’ll take action based on their report,” said  , member, NCPCR. 
 
 The Gurugram secretary of Haryana Progressive Schools Conference (HPSC),  , said, “This is a serious concern. We’ll ask all schools in the state to have counselling sessions of teachers and kids to ensure such incidents don’t recur.” City schools also want teachers to attend counselling sessions on how to deal with students.
 
 In its official statement on Tuesday, the school in question had described the incident as an objectionable cyber prank. Cyber experts, though, believe the kids should have been booked. Former top cop Y P Singh said, “The kids need to be booked so that the malaise is contained, and it acts as a deterrent. With over 20 crore children in India, some will turn out to be perverts, and need to be tackled. Legal charges of criminal intimidation under sections 506 and 509 (obscene words) of IPC, and Section 67 of the IT Act (obscene words in online communication) will come into play. The child will have to be tried under Juvenile Justice Act and given reformatory punishment. It is important to nip such issues in the bud, so that they don’t become a trend.” 
 
 Francis Joseph, education activist and co-founder of School Leaders Network Foundation, said, “Today’s children are not taught how to live in a cyber world. We have not changed our education system to cater to the changing world. Children are not aware of the power of internet and how it affects the real world. They should be made aware of the effects of cyber bullying and online terrorism. Good cyber practices should be taught. Maybe the child was not aware of what his online activities would lead to.” 
 
 
 
 
 A parent on Wednesday spoke up on the two separate incidents of students threatening rape and propositioning teachers for sex at a private school in the city. His children study in the same school. In one case, a student wrote an offensive mail to a teacher, asking her out for a candlelight date and sex. She is continuing to teach at the school. On why she was not coming forward, the parent said that she feared losing her job and only source of income. When the teacher approached the school management, she was told the boy would be counselled. According to the parent, no action was taken against the boy as the accused’s father had threatened to withdraw his children from the school. In the second case, a student threatened to rape a teacher and her daughter in an online message. The girl was so traumatised that she has not returned to school but no action was taken against the boy, the parent said, adding that the teacher is now planning to discuss her resignation with the school on Thursday. Both the teachers are wary because the boys’ families belong to influential families, the parent added. 
 
 
