HARIDWAR: A group of 25 elderly pilgrims from Mumbai faced a harrowing time in Haridwar when their travel agent, who had collected Rs 7.5 lakh as tour expenses from them went missing, leaving the faithful at the mercy of the god in the populous holy city.
 
  In the beginning, the pilgrims were promised an 9-day spiritual sojourn with a stay in five-star hotels, where they were to be provided with sumptuous breakfast, lunch and dinner. They were also promised a helicopter ride straight to ancient   shrine. Each pilgrim was asked to cough up Rs 40,000 for the entire package, and they all did it merrily.
  
  After two days of draining bus journey, the disheveled pilgrims landed in Haridwar on Friday. They were then told to stay in a local hotel by the agent, Bupesh Surti, who again asked for some more money from them and disappeared.
  
  Following this, the pilgrims approached Haridwar police.
  
  Superintendent of police (SP)   said, “The group reached Haridwar on Friday evening by bus and stayed in a local hotel. The accused, Bupesh Surti, was also with the group. The next day, he refused to continue the journey and asked for more money from them for completing the   pilgrimage.”
  
  “The pilgrims then realized that they were conned by the travel agent. They contacted their family members, and finally decided to call police after consultation. After registering a case, the accused agent was arrested on Sunday morning.”
  
  During interrogation, it also came to fore that Surti had duped another group of pilgrims during Amarnath yatra in June 2017.
  
  After the incident, Surti and his wife were arrested by Mumbai police for duping 51 pilgrims of Rs. 10 lakh.
  
  Surti owns  . Its office, which also doubles up as home for Surti, is in Madh colony in Malad area of the financial capital.
  
  Haridwar police has now contacted their Mumbai counterpart in this matter.
  
  A case has been registered against Surti under Section 406 (Punishment for criminal breach of trust) and 506 (Punishment for criminal intimidation) of the Indian Penal Code.
  
  Later, the pilgrims managed to collect some money and went ahead with the Char Dham pilgrimage.
