Celebrity parenting is tough and is both hard on the parents and the child. A celeb parent often faces the biggest question of what is ‘normal upbringing’ and what is not. The recent   Film Festival saw shutterbugs and fans going gaga over Aishwarya Rai Bachchan’s elegance, but there were also many who were concerned about her six-year-old daughter Aaradhya’s appearance at the festival. 

 Dr T Rao Laxmi, additional professor, Department of Neurophysiology, National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences (NIMHANS), feels, “I am personally against exposing children below eight years on such a stage. This is basically considered childhood trauma. However, in India, it is very common to exhibit children on reality shows. It is cute to watch, but is sadly detrimental for the child.” Speaking about how the former Miss World has been maintaining that she wants to give   a normal childhood, Dr Laxmi says, “Which celebrity wants to give normal a childhood to their children? It’s only theoretical.” 
 
 Seconding this thought is politician and star wife  , who is a mother to   (8) and   (3). “I personally would not want my children exposed to such a stage and limelight so fast and so quick. These events demand a certain behaviour, as people are expected to be a certain way. Forget Cannes, I don’t even take my kid to big film events; Cannes is definitely way beyond their age.” Shilpa’s daughter, Charithriya, who debuted in films with #Chamak, is coming to terms with the attention. “Even her teachers tell her that they watched her film. I think girls are mature from an early age, so it is easy for them to understand the change. But I do tell her to stay grounded and to not get carried away,” she says.
 
 Not just at big events like the Cannes film fest, which gets massive media attention, celebrity kids are always in the spotlight, whenever they are seen in public with their parents. “When children are below eight years of age, their brain is still in the developmental stage. When exposed to competition on reality TV shows at such an age, rejection can have negative impacts. Inhibitions are important during child development, but excessive inhibition and excessive excitation of the brain leads to abnormal brain development. This results in abnormal connectivities in the emotion circuit,” explains Dr Laxmi, adding, “In the case of  , it appears that she had some expectations. And at such big events, when the mother is frustrated, it tends to affect the child. In such situations, the mother’s stress on the child comes into play. This can be any kind of emotion, be it fear, pride or optimism.” 
 
 However, some celebrity mothers are okay with kids receiving attention. Actress  , mother of Aayush (13) and Aishwarya (8), says, “If my kids would ever express a desire to be a part of such big events, I would take them with me as long as it is not too overbearing on them.” Speaking about celebrity parenting, what ‘normal childhood’ is and where one should draw the line, Priyanka adds, “Movies have been a large part of my kids’ lives, hence shutting that out cannot be possible, But, yes, as long as one can maintain a balance, I think it’s all good. Parenting is parenting, be it for a celebrity or anyone else.”
 
