INDORE: Over five weeks after the DPS bus accident killed four students, school principal Sudarshan Sonar was on Monday arrested on charges of disobeying orders provided for safety of schoolchildren.

 He was produced before a judge and remanded in jail till February 22. This triggered celebration among parents of the children killed in the accident. They have all along been pressuring the administration to arrest the principal. Their counsel, however, wants Sonar charged with culpable homicide as well.
 
 
 On January 5, the schoolbus had jumped the divider at about 80kmph and crashed headlong into a truck on Indore Bypass, killing four children and the driver. The parents demanded the arrest of principal, accusing school authorities of ignoring the driver’s warning of technical faults in the bus. Police had arrested DPS transport officer Chaitanya Kumawat, Suvidha Auto Gas director Neeraj Agnihotri and an employee Jalaj Meshram for culpable homicide on January 6.
 
 On Monday, the parents held a protest at the district collectorate, alleging administrative and police inaction in penalizing the school authorities. A police team took Sonar in and then announced his arrest.
 
 ‘Won’t rest until all guilty held’
 
 We arrested the principal, Sudarshan Sonar, under IPC Section 188 for failing to abide by CBSE norms on children’s safety. This amounts to disobedience of rules promulgated by a government servant. He was produced before court and sent to central jail till February 22,” ASP (east)   said.
 
 When judge Mahesh Kumar Mali rejected Sonar’s bail plea and sent him to jail, parents flashed the ‘V’ sign outside court, expressing relief that “some action has been taken by police”. “He has been sent to jail,”  , the grandfather of Class VIII student  , shouted as he raised both arms while emerging out of the courtroom. Smiles spread among the parents as they hugged each other. But they said they were not all that happy. “Police arrested and produced the principal under Section 188 IPC while charges under 304 IPC (culpable homicide) should be registered against him,” advocate   told TOI.
 
 “This is just an initial victory. We will continue the fight till all the guilty are arrested under IPC Section 304, 467 (forgery), 468 (cheating) and 471 (using as genuine a forged document). We want strict action against the DPS management and directors of Emerald Ministration Private Limited, which was assigned the job of operating the buses,” the parents said. They plan to meet the district collector with the new set of demands on Tuesday. ASP Rai said as the investigation proceeds, appropriate sections of IPC, if applicable, will be added to the charges. 
 
 
