PANAJI:   feels it will be a disaster if   FC do not hold on to their lead at the top of the table and win what will surely be recorded as the unlikeliest of   triumphs.
 
    FC’s triumph in the I-League last season was touted as a fairy tale with comparisons to Leicester City’s title-winning effort in the English Premier League. But Bajaj’s relatively-unheralded team has done even better, and should they put it across   Brothers SC at the Tilak Maidan in Vasco on Friday, they would have gone one step closer to winning the title with half the money that Aizawl spent last season.
  
  “I would be lying if I said we were aiming for the title. I thought top four would be good, because there was word that the four best teams would qualify for the Super Cup. But, now that we are close to the I-League title, I find it surreal,” the flamboyant owner told TOI on Thursday.
  
  Bajaj better believe in what he is seeing. At least the points table does not lie. With seven games left to be played, they are now six points ahead of East Bengal with a game in hand, nine points ahead of   and two ahead of Neroca, who have played two additional games. Mathematically, the title is theirs to lose, and they would be celebrating wildly should, as expected, they pocket three more points on Thursday.
  
  “We’ll celebrate if we beat Churchill. That would mean 80 percent of the job done. Then we would have a nine-point lead (over East Bengal) and playing five of our remaining six matches at home,” said Bajaj. The only away clash is against bottom-placed Chennai City FC.
  
  Should, as neutrals across the country are hoping,   pull off a miracle, Bajaj would have sent an important message across: You don’t need big budgets to sustain a club and win trophies.
  
  Minerva’s Rs 1.4 crore budget is among the least in the I-League; even newcomers Neroca FC have spent Rs 2.1 crore this season, and is half of what Aizawl spent last season.
  
  “People will be shocked to know the kind of money that we are paying the players. What I am telling the world is that it’s financially viable to run a football club. You don’t need to pay crazy salaries, as long as you don’t get 36-year-old tried (foreign) footballers,” said Bajaj.
  
  Minerva’s best-paid Indian player earns less than Rs 50,000 a month. That’s half of what at least three foreign players get as bonus for scoring a goal in the I-League or providing an assist.
  
  Even Churchill Brothers, with a tightened purse, have spent more on bringing and rejecting foreign players. There was a time when Churchill attracted the best foreign players, broke the bank for Indian stars and won two I-League trophies. Minerva could now win their first trophy, with a ridiculously low budget.
