Endless visits to the   ( ) to seek information will soon be a thing of the past as the civic body goes virtual with its new website. 

  can now key in - http://efaq.punecorporation.org - in the search string to access basic information on the working of the PMC's various departments. The website will also walk them through the process of resolving queries pertaining to public services.
 
 The civic body has already started preliminary work on the website. It has asked the departmental heads to provide relevant information and latest updates of their respective department in a Q and A format to the information technology (IT) department. The data will then be uploaded on the website for the general public.
 
 Around 25 different departments work under PMC, of which many deal directly with citizens' problems on a daily basis. Citizens have often complained of difficulties while obtaining information from PMC offices. They have also said relevant details have not been made available by PMC on a single platform, compelling people to visit the offices.
 
 A PMC official said the website aims to bridge the gap between citizens and administrative set-up. "The website will remove middlemen from the information-seeking process. The move will also ensure that information reaches citizens in a simpler format," he said.
 
 The website is part of the PMC's endeavour towards citizen friendly initiatives. A civic official said the administration has already introduced a smartphone app and a website for citizens to register their grievances. The new website will only provide information and not act as a a portal to resolve grievances.
 
 Arun Soni, a   resident, welcomed the PMC's move, but is concerned that the website should not provide stale information. "For instance, the PMC takes up road works quite frequently across the city. The website should update detailled data on those road undergoing repairs and by when the work will be completed, so that people can avoid those roads,"   said.
 
 
