PUNE: A first-year engineering student was arrested on Tuesday for allegedly murdering a 15-year-old SSC (std X) candidate by slitting his throat with a knife at Purnanagar in   around midnight on Monday.

 The police said their initial inquiry has revealed that the engineering student,   Mahalangikar (18), was jealous that a girl who had rejected his overtures was friendly with the victim,   Bhosale.
 
 Vedant, a resident of Swami Vihar apartment in Purnanagar, was returning home on his scooter after dropping the girl, his schoolmate, to her house. Both had studied till late in the night at Vedant’s house. Rohan, who was waiting for Vedant on the road, intercepted him and attacked him with the knife. 
 
  
  
 
 Rohan had recently bought the knife which he used to commit the crime, the police said. He allegedly slit Vedant’s throat and inflicted injuries on his neck, back and hand before fleeing. 
 
 “A profusely bleeding Vedant ran a short distance to reach a nearby apartment building, Moraya Classic, to save himself. He, however, collapsed and died,” Nigdi police’s senior inspector Vijaykumar Palsule said. 
 
 “Rohan was pursuing the girl who was friendly with Vedant. He attacked and killed Vedant to take revenge for the girl rejecting him,” deputy commissioner of police (zone III) Ganesh Shinde told TOI.
 
 The police examined Vedant’s relationships with the girl and others and the clues led them to Rohan. He was picked up for questioning on Tuesday morning and has admitted to the crime, Palsule said. The police have recovered the knife.
 
 A TOI correspondent visited the crime spot near a nullah on the road close to  , about 750m away from Vedant’s house, on Tuesday morning. Blood stains were seen at the spot and a trail of blood was also seen all the way to the entrance of Moraya Classic and further to the basement and the walls of the staircase.
 
 Rohan’s uncle, Ashish Bhosale, said, “Vedant was a student of Amrutanandmayee English medium school in Yamunanagar, Nigdi. He was the only child of his parents, Jaywant and Janhvi. Jaywant owns a car which has been given to a rental operator. Janhvi is a housewife.”
 
 Another relative, Pramod Shinde, said, “Vedant’s grandmother stays in their ancestral village of Shirgaon in Khed taluka of Ratnagiri district. Jaywant had gone to the village for ‘Shimgotsav’. Vedant stayed back with his mother as his board examinations were on. Jaywant was on his way back home when he was told about the incident.”
 
 Vedant gave his SSC geometry paper at the St Ursula school exam centre in Nigdi on Monday. He was to appear for his Science-I examination on Wednesday.
 
 Another relative, Shashikant Palande, said, “After studying with the girl, Vedant went to drop her home. The girl’s father had called up Vedant’s mother to tell her that he had left for home after dropping his daughter.”
 
 However, when Vedant did not return soon, his mother stepped out in search of him. She saw the police team near Moraya Classic and found her injured son. Vedant was taken to Yashwantrao Chavan Memorial Hospital in Pimpri.
 
 The police said Rohan is from Latur and was living with his aunt at Shivteerthanagar, also in Chinchwad. He is pursuing his engineering studies at a college in Pimpri. His aunt runs a milk dairy. The police have called his parents to Pune.
 
 Palsule said Rohan had not expected that the police would track him down. “After committing the crime, he went home and slept. He woke up early in the morning and helped his aunt deliver milk,” he added.
 
 
