Chandrapur: Rajura police have registered offence against Shiv Sena MLA Balu alias Suresh Dhanorkar for attacking a supervisor of a company engaged in erection of high tension tower line through agriculture fields at Burkunda village. Many other Sena workers too have been booked for causing hurt (Section 324), being part of unlawful assembly (Section 143), rioting (Section 147 and 148) of the IPC. Farmers from Rajura assembly constituency had invited Dhanorkar, who represents Warora constituency, to save them from the alleged excesses by the tower company. Farmers claimed that the company started its work in their fields without entering into any agreement or paying compensation. Even as standing crops were damaged, company officials were adamant and often used local police to suppress their objections. The farmers then approached Dhanorkar, who had successfully helped hundreds of farmers in Warora assembly constituency in getting compensation at commercial rates against the agriculture land occupied by the tower company. Dhanorkar along with his aides visited Burkunda and stalled the tower erection work on Monday afternoon. Dhanorkar claimed that a private company is erecting high tension tower line from Karnool in Andhra Pradesh to Nagri sub-station in Warora tehsil. Dhanorkar claimed that as many as 350 towers are being erected in the jurisdiction of Maharashtra and the company has decided a paltry compensation of Rs18,000 to Rs50,000 for farmers against the erection. He claimed there is a detailed GR by the state about providing compensation to the farmers at commercial NA rate if land is acquired for commercial purpose. Hundreds of farmers in Warora tehsil have been paid Rs 8 lakh to Rs 15 lakh against erecting tower by other companies, the MLA pointed out. He charged that the company was working in complete violation of norms. “We requested the company workers on the scene to stop work and urged them to restart it only after half of the compensation is paid. However, the company officials were adamant,” Dhanorkar said. “Burkunda farmers even complained of the company personnel using abusing and filthy language against them. Hence, our men drove the company workers away from the spot,” he said. A video clip showing Sena workers thrashing company workers and Dhanorkar slapping a supervisor had gone viral late on Tuesday night. Investigation officer PSI RM Madavi confirmed that a case has been registered against the Sena MLA and his aides.