NEW DELHI: Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi, opened its doors on Saturday to over six thousand school students so they could have a look at the institution’s innovation, including several robotic forms. At its 14th Open House, youngsters huddled in groups around the products created by the minds at IIT-D, awed and wide-eyed.

 “I have never seen something like this. The products on show here are amazing,” marvelled Mihir Varshney, who had come for the event with his friend Anuj Bhutani, both of Shri Ram School. The students were particularly impressed by a new type of prosthetic leg and said that it could become a “game-changer if put to use”.
 
 Elaborating on his innovative artificial limb,   student Ashutosh Tiwari said that conventional prosthetics do not allow knee joint movement similar to real legs, so “I put a foot switch insole that can sense movement and transmit infomation to the prosthetic limb that has a hinge-type knee joint and a socket adapter to hold the knee joint”.
 
 Vipin Kumar, who tried it on, testified, “Movement using this prosthetic is smoother and easier. Now I can walk with ease as the feet move in a manner similar to a normal leg.”
 
 Many students were also impressed by the robotics on display. One of the robots, Vise Clutch, created by first year BTech students Lavish Chauhan and Bhargav Varshney, is a “manually controlled bot that can grip blocks and put them in a target zone”.
 
 Another robot, a manual bot, picked up shuttlecocks from loading zones and passed them to an autonomous robot that was following the manual bot’s path. “This autonomous robot will throw the shuttlecocks from the throwing zone into rings during the game of Rong Bay that we have designed,” explained Tanay Asija, a second year BTech student.
 
 Other projects the school students wondered long about was called Onboard. It enabled a person with vision impairment to safely board public buses without depending on others.
 
 Along with this showcasing of research projects, the visitors were also given a tour of the campus laboratories. Speaking about the Open House, V. Ramgopal Rao, director, IIT-D, said, “It is our objective to create a nurturing ecosystem for students and inspire them to work on innovative solutions to our socio-economic challenges.”
 
 
