THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: After issuing several warnings that it will withdraw from the proposed light metro projects, the   ( ) has finally severed ties with   (KRTL). 

 The move was prompted by KRTL's decision to call open tenders for three flyovers that would be part of the Thiruvananthapuram light metro project, said government sources. The decision on open tender was contrary to the earlier understanding that the flyover projects would be executed by DMRC.
 
 Though the decision was taken in a board meeting held in December, the minutes of the meeting was issued only on Tuesday, sources said.
 
 Meanwhile, the letter handed over by the DMRC to chief minister   and   does not mention anything about the flyover. Instead, the DMRC asked the government to sign an agreement with it on the light metro before February 15 or else it would pull out of the project. Miffed by its dictating tone, the government did not respond to the letter, forcing DMRC to withdraw from the project, sources said.
 
 PWD principal secretary G Kamalavardhana Rao said the government could take a decision only after checking the feasibility of the DPR, which was revised according to the Union government's new metro policy. "A committee headed by secretaries of PWD, transport and finance departments has been constituted to study the feasibility of the project. Once it is approved, it will be send to the Union ministry of urban development. A decision on consultancy can be taken only after that," he said. Rao said that the committee will meet next week.
 
 As per new Union government norms, the state should suggest value capture financing to mobilize resource for funding metro projects. Thus, the 'supplement to DPR' prepared by DMRC had suggested measures like 50% increase in property taxes for land within 500 metre distance from the light metro alignment. It also proposed a 3% hike in land registration charges. The state also had to make the project commercially viable by introducing projects such as malls and real estate projects near the alignment.
 
 It was in this backdrop that the government decided to conduct a thorough study before sending it for Union government approval. Considering the inordinate delay in getting approval for the first DPR, the government is cautious about entering into an agreement on turnkey consultancy with DMRC, for which it is seeking 6% of the project cost.
 
 With the revision, the Thiruvananthapuram light metro would cost Rs 4,673 crore and the Kozhikode light metro, Rs 2,773 crore. This would mean the total project cost would be pegged at Rs 7,446 crore, instead of the previous estimate of Rs 6,728 crore.
 
 The project funding has been envisaged in such a way that the state would meet 20% of the cost and the Centre, 20%. The remaining 60% would be met by way of loans.
 
 Sources said the state government, with its current financial situation, is sceptical on taking up such huge financial burden in terms of loans.
 
 The DMRC, as interim consultant, has already been given Rs 5 crore.
 
 
