SHIMLA: Opposition   on Thursday staged a walkout from the assembly in protest against the cancellation of notification for polytechnics at Karsog in   and Dalash in Kullu district.

  leader Mukesh Agnihotri raised the issue immediately after the question hour, saying issuing notification to close down polytechnics at Karsog and Dalash was playing with the sentiments of local people and remined the CM that he had himself said that institutions would not be closed.
 
 Speaker Dr Rajeev Bindal said members should give notice first to discuss the issue and it could not be allowed otherwise. When Agnihotri was speaking, opposition members started raising slogans against the government and then walked out of the House.
 
 After the walkout, parliamentary affairs minister Suresh Bhardwaj said Congress was making noise over a non-issue. He said that reviewing previous government’s decisions was the responsibility and right of any government. He said that many decisions of previous regime were only on papers.
 
 He said many of the institutes opened by previous Congress regime were without any financial approvals. Only their foundation stones were laid which are not valid. 
 
 Chief minister   said previous regime opened educational institutions at the end of term and to take political benefit. He said that neither staff was there nor the basic infrastructure.
 
 He said that at the end of term, previous regime opened 15 sub-divisions in public works department and of then seven sub-divisions were not having financial approvals.
 
 While speaking to media persons outside the assembly, Agnihotri said that Congress legislators staged walkout from the House to protest against the decision of present regime to close down the educational institutions opened in previous regime. “I wanted to give our viewpoint on the issue in the assembly but not allowed on which we walked out in protest,” he added.
 
 Former CM Virbhadra Singh said that leave aside the opening of new educational institutes, BJP government is hell bent to close the institutes opened by Congress government in its tenure. 
 
 
