NEW DELHI:  ,   of Delhi government’s think tank, Delhi Dialogue and Development Commission ( ),   from April 16 to pursue a career in law, leading to speculation. AAP and Khetan himself have ruled out any other reason for the move. 

 “I am joining the legal profession and enrolling with the Bar Council of Delhi, which necessitated my resignation from DDC. Bar Council rules prohibit practising advocates from any kind of private or government employment,” said Khetan. The post of DDC vice chairperson is equivalent to a cabinet rank and bestows upon the occupant perks and privileges.
 
  
  
 
 A journalist before he joined AAP, Khetan contested the 2014 Lok Sabha polls from New Delhi constituency but lost to the BJP candidate. 
 
 A nine-member DDC, chaired by chief minister Arvind Kejriwal, was formed soon after Aam Aadmi Party came to power in 2015 to give shape to the party’s pre-poll initiative, Delhi Dialogues. This was to facilitate with citizens a dialogue on key issues, ranging from women’s safety and environment to education, health and more. The idea was that DDC would help AAP implement its governance vision. In the run-up to the polls, Khetan used to lead this initiative.
 
 The DDC had identified 21 areas of focus, including power, clean water, education, health, women’s safety, trade, pollution, transport, unauthorized colonies, JJ clusters, WiFi, CCTV and sports. It had more than a dozen task forces with specialists and domain experts. Besides, the policy-related work, different departments consult the commission on a range of administrative and governance issues.
 
 Claiming that DDC had achieved considerable success, Khetan said: “It has formulated more than 75 major policy recommendations and a few key legislations, leaving its imprint in every area of governance.” Delhi’s solar policy, minimum wages amendment, water harvesting policy and sports policy were among its major achievements.
 
 The commission, however, ran into a major roadblock in August 2016 when the six consultants appointed as domain experts were sacked on the ground that they were not appointed with prior approval of the LG. “The pace of work slowed down in the second half of the three yearss due to different obstacles. Fresh appointments could not be made,” said Khetan. Now that its key operating officer has quit, DDC is staring at an uncertain future.
 
 Some of DDC’s initiatives are yet to have an outcome. The Delhi health Bill has not yet been introduced in the assembly. Its idea of Aam Aadmi canteens and its recommendations on WiFi also could not be implemented for reasons that are not clear. Its much talked about idea to tackle dengue by using a Chinese proposal to use genetically modified mosquitoes could also not take off.
 
 “I will work more effectively for the party now because I am no longer holding a post in the government. I will be able to extend more help to the party on the legal front as well as on the political front,” said Khetan.
 
 
