CHENNAI: As the political horizon over   gets crowded, leaders, both established and aspirants, come out with new thoughts to gear up their cadres and followers to prepare for the tough road ahead. On Tuesday, it was the turn of DMK working president M K   and actor   to spar over politics, but without mentioning names.

 “Given the political climate, newer birds are keen to flap their wings and fly. Though the democratic sky is common to all, the distance a bird flies depends on the strength of its wings and history has recorded several taking a break unable to fly further,” Stalin wrote, in his letter to party cadres, in an oblique reference to actors Rajinikanth and Kamal Haasan, who have recently announced their intent to enter politics.
 
 “With self-respect and social justice as its two wings, the Dravidian movement continued to fly strong for more than 100 years. Trained in that path, DMK too will continue to fly high in the interest of the welfare of the people of Tamil Nadu, whether it is heading the government or if it is in the opposition,” he said. “The journey is long, but we have clarity and will abide by democratic norms,” Stalin said, calling upon cadres to gear up for the ensuing district level review meetings from February 1.
 
 As if taking a cue from Stalin’s epistle to his partymen, Kamal Haasan told his fans, “This has been a long journey for me and you, who have followed me for 37 years without a question. This journey will continue, but the target is now to work people’s welfare.” Preparing his fans for his ensuing state-wide tour from February 21, he said, “Unlike others, our target is not the government treasury. It is the welfare of the people and we will achieve that through dignified action,”
 
 Adding a twist to the political tussle was state fisheries minister D   who took a swipe at not only the actors for their app-based politics, but also seemingly at the DMK too.
 
 “Our government embraced digital medium much earlier and launched apps intended to benefit the public, unlike those launched by the actors to promote themselves,” Jayakumar said.
 
 
