CHENNAI: At his peak, Spain’s   consistently featured among the top-10 players in the world. Blessed with supreme athleticism and an earnest attitude, the 35-year-old had the ability to punch above his weight against the very best in the world. David’s elder brother Javier, who is in the city as coach of   for the   Challenger, has seen the former world No. 3 right from his formative years and beams proudly at his achievements. As David nears the end of his career, the one downside is his recent struggles with form and seeming inability to finish on a high.

 
 According to Javier, it’s simply a case of the advancing years taking a toll on David’s form.
 
 “The problem is that David is now 35. In the last two years, he has not been able to have the same recovery that he used to have earlier in tournaments. He has always given it his all when he plays and that’s not easy for him anymore. He will turn 36 in April. It’s true that David has enjoyed a lot of success in his career. He is a different player now though,” Javier said on Monday.
 
 Just in the last one year, though, Roger Federer and  , who are 36 and 31 respectively, have swept among them all five Grand Slams. Can Ferrer take inspiration from his illustrious contemporaries?
 
 “Federer and Nadal are special ones. They are exceptions. They play at another level. You can’t compare with them. They are in a different race,” added the elder brother.
 
 For a player of David’s calibre, the fact that he has now slipped to 39 in the rankings and won only one title in the last two years must be hard to digest. The 40-year-old Javier, however, believes David can look back with fondness on a career that’s seen him compete with the very best.
 
 “David has had a very good career. He was in the top 10 or 20 for around 12 years. Now, he understands that he was there with some of the biggest stars in history. Maybe, he could have won a Grand Slam or two. But he became a better player because of the likes of Federer and Nadal. They have pushed players behind them to become better players,” he added.
 
