NEW DELHI: Though it was a disappointing finish for Indian favourite   on the final day of the $1,750,000 Hero   in Gurugram, his compatriot   believes the immensely talented youngster will not see this as a setback.

 
 
 Shubhankar was joint leader with eventual winner Matt Wallace heading into the final round, but stumbled on Sunday. The 21-year-old struggled to a three-over 75 at the challenging DLF   Course as he found bushes, water bodies and hit the flag once to finish tied seventh, while the Englishman shot four-under 69 in regulation play before overcoming Andrew Johnston in the play-off to win his second European Tour title. 
 
 
 
 Writing for TOI, Lahiri felt that Shubhankar - whose stunning rise up the golf rankings saw him jump from 462nd place to 66th in three months following two European Tour Wins and a tied ninth place finish at the World Golf Championships in Mexico last week - was on the right track. 
 
 
 
 
 
 “Shubhankar Sharma did not have a good day and even though he made as many as six birdies in his round, it also had three double bogeys. You can recover from one in a tightly bunched leaderboard, but three is a bit too much,” wrote Lahiri, who won the Hero Indian Open in 2015. “I am not worried at all about Shubhankar. He is in a great space at the moment and setbacks like the two Sundays should not upset him as long as he does all the hard work leading up to that day and is in contention.”
 
 For Lahiri, the Hero Indian Open was a disappointment. The ace golfer was desperate to end his three-year long title drought and reclaim the crown to earn a spot in the WGC Matchplay Championship, but finished tied 34th behind fellow Indians Shubhankar and Jyoti Randhawa and KN Kaul who were tied 32nd. 
 
 “I got off to a bad start at the start of the Hero Indian Open week and I must admit I tried very hard on all four days to pull it back. Unfortunately, it just did not happen,” he wrote. :Personally, I am disappointed. Not just because it is the Indian Open and I was playing in front of my home crowd. I have a good record in the tournament and I am very proud of it. Unfortunately, I got caught by a tough golf course with my game not in the best possible shape to wage a battle against it.”
 
 Lahiri, ranked 80th, is still hopeful of getting into the Tour Championship but admitted that he needs confidence. “I need to find some confidence. Whether I do that at the range, when my coach Vijay (Divecha) comes to spend some time with me in the US after the Bay Hill Invitational, or whether I find it while playing a round, remains to be seen. There is a lot of work in front of me because I don’t think I am anywhere close to my best golf,” he wrote.
 
 “Having said that, I know what I am seeking for is simple to find. I just need to spend some extended amount of time working on it. I am also going to play a few more rounds in the next couple of weeks. I feel that I am spending more time at the range than on the golf course. Even if I make a few birdies in a bunch in a relaxed round with friends, it would make a difference.”
 
 
