Not long ago, neera was thought to have the potential to revolutionise the farm sector of the state, give a boost to the economy and provide jobs to many, besides giving a healthy drink to everyone. With the production of the non-alcoholic beverage extracted from the coconut palm hitting rock bottom, it is clear that the Coconut Development Board (CDB) which promoted it as well as the other stake holders including the producer and tappers, are staring at a crisis.
Though the government had set up societies and federations to produce it in mass scale, the second batch of fertilisers never made it to them, making it unviable for most manufacturers, says Sashidharan Nair, the chief executive officer of Thirukochi Coconut Producer Company. “After the fertilisers were first distributed, we managed to procure the required machinery. However, subsequently, we never got any such supplies from the government, and it started affecting our efficiency.”
 
 It also becomes necessary to investigate how many of the personnel in the 29 coconut producer companies across the State are experienced enough to handle the production of neera, he adds. In his opinion, rather than setting up individual companies, there should have been a centralised system to manage the production efficiently.
 Sunny George, chairman of a Coconut Producer Company in Kannur, observes that the number of tappers available to extract neera is grossly insufficient. The trees in their area are tall and require more manual labour, he adds.
 
 He still believes that with proper care, timely use of fertilisers and intervention by the authorities,   can be augmented but asks for updation of technology. “Neera is the sap taken from the inflorescence of palms, and will turn into toddy if allowed to ferment. Therefore, as soon as it is extracted, it has to be refrigerated.” While only three bunches in a tree is used for deriving neera, the rest are still used to get coconuts.
 
 He admits that the enthusiasm of the farmers has ebbed, after their efforts failed to bring the rewards they had expected. “They had taken loans to set up plants, but when there is no sufficient produce or support. What can they do with them?”
 
 The movement that was kicked off in 2014 has lost steam and the change in the government has resulted in a shift in focus from neera to toddy, says R Hali, Former Director of Agriculture. While countries like Philippines and Indonesia are cashing in on neera and earning the much-needed foreign exchange, we are still lagging behind. “What we fail to understand is that we are losing out on a huge market that can be established through this,” says Hali.
 While it was a distinct possibility to produce 40,000 litres daily, it has now sunk to as low as between 400 and 1000 litres, Hali says. “There is no proper coordination among the 29 companies that exist in the State, and most of them are not aware of how to manage the various affairs. Only the State can address their concerns and bring them all together as an effective entity.” While Kerala is letting the opportunity slip through its hands, neighbouring states like Karnataka and Tamil Nadu are making swift progress in the field, says Hali. The latest one to join the bandwagon is Goa, which has woken up to the multiple benefits of neera.
 
 Dr C Mohan Kumar from the SCMS Institute of Bioscience and Biotechnology, who has done extensive research on the technology, finds it absurd that neera is called sweet toddy by many and stresses that there is zero alcohol in it. “Toddy and neera can be called fermented sap and non-fermented sap.”
 Neera has many vital qualities, and has more food calories than milk, he points out. “It is rich in Vitamin C and can fight diabetes, cancer, electrolyte deficiency and even hairfall.”
 
 Training needs to be given for tappers who also must be equipped with the means of treating neera, after it is extracted. He says that it is quite ironical that the bureaucrats, who vouch for green living and effective use of resources, cannot even distinguish between this healthy and therapeutic drink from toddy. He concludes, “An unscientific approach on the part of the authorities cannot be overlooked, and it is high time that we understood the potential of this non-alcoholic sweet drink.”
 
