The phrase ‘Love comes when you least expect it’ couldn’t be proved any more true. This love story that starts on a tragic note but ends almost magically, lives up to the maxim and will reaffirm your faith in providence and coincidences.

 Paul Kalanithi, author of the bestseller 
  died at 37 of lung  . The book, which was released posthumously and was applauded worldwide, is a memoir of his final days that he spent battling the malignant disease with his wife and daughter. 
 
 Nina Rigg succumbed to breast cancer on 26 February, 2016, at the tender age of 39 and recorded the last days of her tough journey in her book,
  which went on to garner the acclaim of the masses and critics alike, only after she passed away. Similar, aren’t their stories? 
 
 However, a lot more similar and sublime is the story that followed. During her final days, Nina suggested her husband John Duberstein, to talk to  , since she had well accommodated herself to her new world, which John was about to enter. Nina and Lucy had interacted previously when Lucy called her to praise her modern love column, 
 
 Nina was sure that Lucy would be able to give her husband the right advice to help him cope with her loss. It was on 24 February, 2016, two days before Nina’s death that Lucy sent her an email of spiritual support. This email was the harbinger of the solace that John and Lucy were to find in each other. 
 
 John’s response gave way to a meaningful conversation, which engendered many more, leading to friendship and consequently love. A joint publicity tour that they did together for their late spouses’ books confirmed their relationship and they are currently living together and working on blending their families which includes Lucy’s 3-year-old daughter and John’s children, Freddy (10) and Benny (8). Also considering the composition of a sequel to their late consorts’ books, they try to keep them alive through small, traditional practices like visiting  's grave on New Year’s eve. 
 
 Their story has proved to be an optimistic driving force and an envoy of hope to every person who has come across it, including the author   who took to the micro-blogging site Twitter to express her surprise and ecstasy apropos the situation. She tweeted, "I am not really one to talk about silver linings, but wow.”
 
 
