She is all of nine years old, but get her started on   and a young Vishrutha Vijayakumar speaks like a learned person with many years of experience.

  And indeed, the little girl has some solid experience in her kitty as an emerging young talent of the art form. The artiste from North Paravoor, who is a Class 4 student in  , Kodungalloor, has performed Kathakali in more than 60 stages so far, and has even portrayed roles like Mathali of Kalakeyavadham, which are only done by experienced artistes.
 
 To have a profile like that, she did start very young. “I was introduced to Kathakali when I was in kindergarten and I remember those days in bits and pieces,” she says, adding, “My parents sent me to Kathakali class saying, ‘Why don’t you try it? If you like it, you can learn it.’ When I watched it, the colours, music and mudras appeared to be a lot of fun.”
 
 It was under her first guru Sathi Sreekumar that Vishrutha learned the basics of the art, vaithari, kaal sadhakam et al. She staged her arangettam when she was in Class 2 and over the years, she says, her love for the art form grew manifold as she learned more. “The various stories and aspects of Kathakali fascinate me every time I learn something new. My current guru, FACT Biju Bhaskar, is the one who taught me the stories of the art form,” she says. Vishrutha has portrayed a variety of characters like Krishnan, Prahladan and more, but wants to do more of kathi veshams.
 
 “I am now learning the young Ravanan’s character in Ravanotbhavam,” Vishrutha says, adding that playing Mathali was another memorable experience. “I don’t think anyone my age has previously performed Mathali on stage. It’s done by senior artistes, and that gives me immense pride.”
 
 On her favourite performers of the art form, she says, “Kalamandalam Gopi aasan used to be my favourite till some time ago. Now, I like my guruji’s performances better because his veshabhangi is incomparable and kathi veshams are superb. When he plays women characters, for instance, you wouldn’t know the difference, despite him being a man. I too want to try out some female roles soon, like those in Duryodhanavadham,” Vishrutha says.
 
 The young artiste’s talent isn’t limited to Kathakali alone but also finds time to learn Bharatanatyam, Mohiniyattam and Kuchipudi under R L V Unnikrishnan, Dr Neena Prasad and Sreelakshmi Govardhan, respectively. How easy is it for her to manage school, along with all of these trainings? “We have a lot to study at school too. Sometimes, I study from 7 pm to 12 pm, especially during examination times, to compensate for lost hours,” she exclaims.
 However, Vishrutha is yet to showcase Kathakali at school. “I have only performed dance at school. My friends never recognise me in my Kathakali make-up, when they see photographs or programmes. ‘Is that really you, Vishrutha?’ they ask me. I don’t think even an ounce of my casual look gets retained when I put on the Kathakali make-up,” she says.
 
 Of late, Vishrutha has also stepped into the world of cinema. She is part of a children’s film titled Papas, directed by Sampath. “I play a character named Meenu in the film, who lived around 1984. She is nine years old and is the girlfriend of the lead character,” Vishrutha says.
 Will she continue with Kathakali when she grows up? “My dream is to be an established Kathakali artiste. At times, my mom says in jest why not become a doctor, but I guess my parents also want me to be an artiste,” she says.
 
 Vishrutha’s parents, Vijayakumar and Sindhu, are settled in North Paravoor. Her mom Sindhu says, “We didn’t get her interested in these art forms for anything else, but to make her a good artiste. However, she is too young to figure it all out now. If she grows up and decides to be a meritorious artiste, we would consider that a great achievement.”
 
 
