HYDERABAD: In a hurry to please the farmers in the state, the TRS government has landed in a catch-22 situation.

 The much hyped scheme of extending Rs 4000 per acre crop capital to farmers is now staring at numerous questions on the eligibility criteria. The state government initially announced that only those who cultivate their land would be eligible to get the dole. This means, every   should get a certificate from the local village revenue officer or agriculture extension officer that the land is actually under cultivation. Based on the certificate, the Rs 4000 credit capital will be issued in the form of a cheque. But in the hindsight the state government has realised that the condition would actually open gates for widespread corruption with village officers demanding money to issue the cultivation certificate. “If we insist on the cultivation, several farmers would be left out and there is possibility of corruption in the village level,” pointed a senior official.
 
 Now the government is in dilemma whether to insist on the cultivation or release the money for all the farmers who have pattadar passbooks. If the government takes the route of pattadar passbooks, then it has to provide financial assistance to all the 71.6 lakh famers in state. But the fact is that during the   season, from when the state government wants to start giving the money, maximum cultivation in the state has never crossed 25 lakh acres. Which means more than half of the land has been kept idle by the farmers.
 
 Moreover the state government has to cough up at least Rs 6000 crore to provide Rs 4000 per acre to about 71lakh farmers in both the seasons would further burden the exchequer. Taking all aspects into the consideration, the agriculture department has recommended to provide assistance to all farmers without insisting on the cultivation. Similarly, the lands with pending legal issues would also get the financial help based on revenue department records. Meanwhile, the state’s finance minister along with the agriculture minister requested the Union finance ministry to supply Rs 6000 crore worth currency to the state by May 2018 so the scheme could be launched without any cash shortage in banks.
 
