MOHALI: Two boys set their 17-year-old friend on fire following a tiff over a mobile phone at a vacant plot in Mataur, police said on Saturday after arresting them.

 
 The two accused, a 10-year-old and a 16-year-old, were charged under Section 307 (attempt to murder) of the   (IPC). The victim was admitted to Civil Hospital, Phase VI, with 40% burn injuries. He and the two accused are residents of Mataur village in Sector 71.
 
 
 Police said the victim alleged the two accused had snatched his mobile phone. When he reached to take it back in the early hours of Friday, the two juveniles tied up his hands and legs, thrashed him and then set him on fire, the victim alleged in his statement to the police.
 
 
 The victim told TOI, “The two are known to me and asked me to show them my new Android mobile phone. They, however, took my phone and told me to take it back after two days. When I insisted that I needed it, they called me after midnight. When I reached the vacant plot, they hit me and threw some chemical on me and set me on fire. They also made a video of me.”
 
 
 Parents of the victim, were told by neighbours that their son had been set on fire by some miscreants. “We rushed to the spot and found that people living nearby were rescuing our child. We took him to the hospital. He sustained 40% burn injuries. We told the names of the two accused to the police,” the two said.
 
 
 Doctor attending to the 17-year-old boy said, “The boy is out of danger but 40% of the left side of his body has been burnt. The injuries are on left side of his thigh, stomach, chest and arm. Luckily, his face is saved. Some highly inflammable substance must have been used.”
 
 
 Assistant sub-inspector (ASI)  , the investigating officer, said they made the arrests after recording the statement of the victim and his father at the hospital. Both the accused were sent to a juvenile home. While the 10-year-old boy was sent to a juvenile home in Faridkot, the 16-year-old boy to   juvenile home, said  
 
