VISAKHAPATNAM: Gone are the days when one could walk or jog in the early mornings and evenings on the salubrious   in all tranquility with just the sound of the surging seas, the lashing waves, fresh air and a picturesque sunrise on sea as company. In recent years, the serenity of the surroundings and the fresh sea breeze has taken a beating to noise, crowd and pollution.

 
 Once walkers’ paradise, the beach road is fast losing its sheen when it comes to taking a health walk due to increasing smog, pollution, vendors, overcrowded condition and rallies, especially in the early mornings even though the beach remains a vehicle-free zone at the time. In the evenings, on the beach itself and in extremely unhygienic way, fast food is being sold by vendors. Rather than boosting health and a peaceful surrounding, the serene Beach Road is creating an unhealthy atmosphere.
 
 Dr P V Sudhakar, principal of Andhra Medical College, and Dr Satyanaranaya, head of the department of anaesthesiology at  , are regular morning walkers on the Beach Road since several years. But today they are worried over the quality of early morning air and smog. 
 
 “We found the smog to be quite dense, visibility of Dolphin’s Nose was obstructed and the air appeared somewhat acidic and uncomfortable. It felt like we were inhaling some kind of toxic effluents released from an industry. In fact, instead of the fresh oxygen-laden morning air, often smog and dusty air greet morning walkers on Beach Road these days, thanks to the increasing pollution levels,” says Dr Sudhakar.
 
 Another problem faced by walkers is from the fruits and vegetable vendors who occupy the footpaths opposite the beach side. “Recently, their numbers have been increasing and the crowd they attract obstructs smooth walking and peace of the stretch. May be they can shift a little towards the various colonies and lanes connecting the Beach Road,” he added.
 
 Environmentalist Sohan Hatangadi, another regular morning and evening walker on the stretch, agrees. “The chaat and fast food vendors and bandis who throng the R   on the evenings should be discouraged because they sell food in dishes washed in dirty water kept in a bucket and keep reusing it. Neither the cut food items are covered from dust and pollution but left open, thereby adding to the unhealthiness. At times, the dust from the port side also increases and affects visibility,” he says.
 
 “Overall, the Beach Road has become quite noisy and overcrowded with some activity and rally or the other on most mornings and evenings. The honking of vehicles and traffic in the evenings and the rallies in the mornings have spoiled the calm and serenity of the Beach Road and we walkers are the worst sufferers,” rues D Aparna, a long-time resident of Beach Road.
 
 
