MADURAI: The Madurai bench of the Madras high court on Friday ordered transfer of a case -- relating to impersonation in an examination conducted by Indian Ordnance Factory -- from the KK Nagar police in   to the  .

 Defence ministry’s Indian Ordnance Factory conducted the written examination in 2015 at   in Trichy to recruit people for various posts. However, the recruitment agency doubted that there were impersonations in the examination. This led to testing a batch of 11 applications along with fingerprints of concerned candidates. Later, it was found that the fingerprints of two candidates did not match.
 
 Following this, general manager of the factory, Dr C Ariyasakthi lodged a complaint with the K K Nagar police who in turn registered a case and started investigations. The police arrested   of Nagpur in Maharashtra and K   of Kanpur in Uttar Pradesh in 2016.
 
 Alleging there was no further development in the case, the general manager filed a petition before the high court bench seeking to transfer the investigation to the CBI.
 
 When the case had come up before Justice PN Prakash recently, the judge had sought the appearances of superintendent of police of Anti-Corruption Bureau of CBI (Chennai). 
 
 Accordingly, the superintendent of police Syed Bazzullah and CBI inspector G A Suryakumar appeared before the court on Friday, when the case came up for further hearing.
 
 The inspector of K K Nagar police station told the court that arrested are on bail now.
 
 After hearing, the judge said, “Prima facie, it appears that a scam has occurred. The perusal of case diary of the police shows they are looking out for six people who are said to be living in other states. It will be difficult for the local police to nab the accused. Since the CBI is a fit agency, the case is directed to be transferred to CBI, anti-corruption Bureau, Chennai. The KK Nagar police after obtaining order from Trichy city police commissioner has to hand over all relevant materials to the CBI.”
 
 
