COIMBATORE: A piece of a vest found at the crime scene has helped the rural police crack the murder case of a 25-year-old man on Karavalimathapur-Chegapalli road near Karumathampatti.

 The police on Tuesday arrested P Manikandan, 34, a native of Keelapavoor in Tirunelveli district, and his friend  , 28, of Papanasam in Thanjavur for hacking to death Ajithkumar, 25, of Duraimangalam in Perambalur, in a drunken brawl on March 17 midnight.
 
 Manikandan, the police said, was a broiler chicken seller at Kaniyur near Karumathampatti, while Inbaraj was employed with a textile unit at Kumarapalayam.
 
 On March 17 midnight, an unidentified man was found dead with multiple cut injuries on Karavalimathapur-Chengapalli road near   river bund. When alerted, a police team sent the body to the   and Hospital for postmortem and took possession of a piece of a vest found at the crime scene.
 
 “We examined the cloth and found the company name printed on it. Thus we tracked Subiksha Knit Compactors to Avinashi. During the inquiry, we established the identity of the victim, who had been staying in the staff quarters of the knit wear unit. His roommates told us Ajithkumar was working as a driver for  , area manager of a private chit fund firm at Avinashi. They also revealed that he was a close friend of Manikandan,” an investigating official said.
 
 Immediately, the police team rushed to Manikandan’s house, but only to find him on the run. Preliminary investigation revealed that Manikandan was arrested by the Nagapattinam police in connection with a theft case a few years ago. “He met Ajithkumar in prison and the duo became friends. Ajithkumar moved to Avinashi after he came out on bail. He used to consume alcohol with Manikandan and Inbaraj. Ajithkumar used to visit Manikandan at his house, where the latter was living with his lover,” the official said.
 
 Two weeks ago, Manikandan spotted his paramour riding pillion on a motorcycle rode by Ajithkumar and fought with her. However, Ajithkumar pacified them.
 
 On March 16, Ajithkumar phoned up Manikandan, saying that he wanted to meet him. The duo was joined by Inbaraj and they consumed alcohol together. Drunk, Ajithkumar and Manikandan entered into heated arguments and in a fit of rage the latter hacked him to death with a sickle with the help of Inbaraj. The duo took Ajithkumar’s mobile phone and sped away on a motorcycle.
 
 The police arrested the duo on Tuesday and seized from them the mobile phone, motorcycle and the sickle. They were produced before a local court, which remanded them in judicial custody. 
 
 
