KOCHI: District collector   has said that construction of the alleged 'caste wall' on the land adjacent to   at   would not be allowed. "No construction activity near the temple premises will be permitted for the time being," the collector said. Speaking at a press meet held at the collector's chamber on Saturday, the collector said that everyone would be treated equally and no caste-based discrimination will be entertained. 

 He added that no special preferences or treatment would be given to anyone in this regard. On Saturday, the collector also convened a meeting with a socio-political group led by  . In the meeting, it was decided that a board installed near the temple would be removed and the tents that has been pitched near the temple premises would be dismantled. The collector added that all the concerns raised by the socio and religious groups have been addressed in the meeting.
 
 "All measures will be taken to ensure that law and order situation prevails at Vadayampadi. Legal action will be taken against anyone who disrupts the communal harmony," said the collector.
 
 "No one can prohibit rights enjoyed by people, including the right to access in public places. Nobody can prevent people from using the road adjacent to the temple and the playground nearby it," said the collector.
 
 However, the collector added that prior permission was required to conduct and organize any festivals, including public functions and meetings, near the temple.
 
 Regarding the title deed issue surrounding the temple premises, the collector said that since it is a matter coming under the jurisdiction of court he cannot make any statement.
 
 Meanwhile, Dalit activist M P   issued a statement announcing a convention at Vadayampadi on Sunday to uphold the self-esteem of Dalits. 
 
 For the past 10 months, Kutty has been leading a protest by 180 Dalit families at Vadayampadi village to reclaim their right of way though the land adjacent to a temple, run by upper-caste Nair Hindus. 
 
 
