KOLHAPUR: The   regional transport authorities continue to keep a hawk eye on school buses operating in the district to ensure compliance with the safety norms. 

 As many as 52 school buses from the district were detained in 2017-18 after inspections revealed that they did not comply with the school bus transport rules.
 
 According to the   data, 392 school buses were inspected in the last financial year. Of these, 93 school buses were found to be non-compliant. Further, 52 buses were detained after they failed to comply with the rules even after being given a warning.
 
 D T Pawar, Regional Transport Officer, Kolhapur told TOI that though several buses were detained in 2017-18, the number is significantly low compared to past three years. The RTO has been conducting inspection drives on a consistent bases. 
 
 “In the past two years, we have started to organise inspection camps in May for school buses. In 2015-16, the RTO had inspected 594 school buses, of which, 114 buses were found to be non-compliant. That year, we collected fine of Rs 17 lakh from the erring bus operators. We collected Rs 5 lakh fine last year, which shows that more buses are complying with the transport rules,” he said. 
 
 He added that the RTO will be organising another school bus inspection camp in the coming days.
 
 It has to be noted that the school bus transport rules, which came into effect in March 2011, have stipulated various regulations for school buses, bus operators, the transport department and the school authorities. The rules apply to vehicles with a seating capacity of 12 and above and exclude auto rickshaws.
 
 Another RTO official that the inspection of the school buses reveals a lot about the vehicle, especially about its compliance to the safety norms.
 
 School buses should not be older than eight years from the date of registration and should be fitted with speed governors limiting driving to 40 kmph within municipal corporation areas and not exceeding 50 kmph in other regions. 
 
 The rules also suggest that the transport contractor shall employ lady attendants for girls and co-educational schools and male attendants or cleaners for boys schools. There should be distinct uniform for the driver, the lady attendant and the male attendant or cleaner for identification. 
 
 The schools are generally told to issue identity cards to the operator to be displayed by all staff on duty. It is mandatory to have First Aid box in the vehicle.
 
 “Compliance to all these rules is necessary. Apart from the RTO, the schools also need to be vigilant about the condition of the buses,” added the official.
 
 
