VISAKHAPATNAM: Work on the approach road to the IT SEZ on the   hill near   along the Vizag-Bheemili beach road is on at a brisk pace, as the government plans to accommodate around 80 to 100 companies in the area to convert the hill into the next IT hub in the state.

 Kapuluppada hill has around 1,400 acres of land. The   Industrial Infrastructure Corporation (APIIC) had got permission to lay the approach road from the police department as the department owns a firing range on the foothill and was initially hesitant about giving its nod. Now, the firing range is being shifted to another area on the outskirts of the city ostensibly to make way for the expansion of the IT SEZ, sources said.
 
 “Out of 1,400 acres, only 400 acres to 500 acres would come into utilisation. The APIIC is now laying the approach roads. Once the road works are over, the layout would be developed,”district collector Pravin Kumar told TOI.
 
 He further said a world-class IT city would come up on the hill as many big players in the IT sector across the globe have evinced interest in coming to Vizag. In the first phase of development, around 200 acres would be developed.
 
 As part of the state government’s efforts to provide one lakh IT jobs in the next one year, IT minister Nara Lokesh is keen on developing the area as early as possible to attract big companies, sources said.
 
 Kapuluppada hill is key to the development of the IT sector in the port city as it is twice the size of the present IT SEZ atop Rushikonda hills. It can be recalled that the hill was earlier allotted for   by Unitech Ltd in 2008. When the project failed to materialise, the government cancelled the allotment three years ago.
 
 Once the approach road works are over, the government would go for tenders for the layout development of the first phase. After the layout, the state government would allot the land parcels ranging from one acre to five acres to small individual companies and 15 acres to 20 acres to major players in the IT industry across the globe, sources said. 
 
 Rushikonda IT Park Association vice-president and Symbiosis MD O   told TOI that the development of the hill would usher in rapid growth for the IT sector.
 
 
