NEW DELHI: The government is mulling lower duty and other concessions, including cheaper loans, for cars that are compact and have reduced carbon emissions - pegged at 155gm per km this year and eventually going down to 110 by 2028.

 
 The move, proposed in a draft   released by the heavy industries ministry, accords benefits not only for electric vehicles but also other relatively-cleaner technologies, such as hybrids, CNG,   and methanol as well as fuel cells. This is in line with what the wider auto industry has been demanding.
 
 The policy also speaks about the need to boost R&D in India in the auto domain instead of importing cuttingedge technologies. "Currently, India stands far behind countries such as China, United States, Norway and   which have taken the lead in converting their vehicle fleets green and becoming engineering and production hubs for green mobility vehicles," the draft policy states.
 
 Interestingly, it makes no particular mention of a mandatory migration to electrics by 2030, though it seeks higher purchase of 'green mobility vehicles' in procurements by central and state governments as well as the municipalities.
 
 Speaking about the need for defining a green mobility roadmap for India, it says that this should be "a technology agnostic" roadmap through evolution of emission regulations. This in effect means that emissions need to be controlled, but not only through electrics but other green measures and technologies.
 
 "Introducing CO2 emissions as a basis of vehicle classification will promote adoption of greener vehicles and align with the overall vision of reducing green-house gas emissions. 155 gm/km will be used as the cut-off for categorizing vehicles currently. However, this cut-off will gradually decrease yearly." While the base GST rate will continue to be 28%, the draft policy suggests lower cess on greener cars. "Cars with length less than 4 meters and CO2 emissions less than 155 gm/km will be eligible for the lowest cess rate of 1%. Cars with length less than 4 meters but CO2 emissions higher than 155 g/km will have a cess rate of 15%. Larger cars with length greater than 4 meters and CO2 emissions less than 155 g/km will have a cess rate of 15%."
 
 The policy proposes the highest cess rate of 27% on cars with length greater than 4 meters and emissions higher than 155 g/km. "Promoting sales of smaller and greener cars is the goal of the proposed GST framework. The values used for creating slabs (4 meters in length and 155 g/km) and the cess rates will be reviewed and changed in order to meet the evolving environmental targets and changing market landscape."
 
 The policy also proposes penalties for companies that fail to meet the prescribed fleet emissions standards, while mulling the "banking and trading" of CO2 credits by vehicle manufacturers to reward the less-polluting ones.
 
 "Currently, vehicle classification for the purpose of taxation in India is based on length, engine size, engine type, and type (SUV, luxury etc). These parameters do not directly promote reduction in emissions and technology advancements," the draft policy says, adding that vehicle taxation has a major impact on demand and thus it is necessary that the criterion is modified to catalyse investments in technology upgradation and green mobility.
 
 "Vehicle length-based classification will target reduction in vehicular congestion and CO2 emissions-based classification will align with the overall vision of green mobility and reduction in   Gas (GHG) emissions."
 
