JAIPUR: Sleuths of Enforcement Directorate (ED) initiated fresh raids at five establishments belonging to   situated at Word Trade Park (WTP), SEZ, Sitapura and C-scheme locality in Jaipur in connection with the multi-crore fraud of Punjab National Bank (PNB).

 Officers are expecting a total seizure of nearly Rs 10 crore by the end of these raids. Till Saturday evening, they have managed to seize assets worth nearly Rs 6 crore.
 
 According to sources, two teams of ED entered the ground floor of A block of WTP on Saturday morning. Entry of customers was stopped at the   and   jewellery stores which were raided. Similar raids were conducted at Shopper’s Stop at WTP and at C-scheme which has the outlets of Nirav Modi’s jewellery.
 
 “We have initiated raids at four different business establishments including three situated at World Trade Park and one at C-scheme. The jewellery stores including Geetanjali and Nakshatra at WTP and two different at Shopper’s stop were raided by our men. The process is still on and we are till late in the evening,” said a senior officer of ED, Jaipur on the condition of anonymity.
 
 Sleuths added that in its three earlier raids that were started on Thursday at Sitapura Industrial area and Special Economic Zone(SEZ), Sitapura sleuths managed to seize assets worth nearly Rs 2.83 crore.
 
 Asked about the seizures that came out from the Saturday’s four raids, an officer said, “As of now we have managed to seize jewellery worth nearly Rs 3 crore and valuation and the raids are still on. We are expecting to seize assets worth nearly Rs 10 crore after the completion of our raids.”
 
 Panic prevailed among the jewellers of other outlets situated on the ground floor of the A block of the WTP. Entry towards the said two outlets was restricted by the sleuths of ED.
 
 These raids were started on Thursday a day after ED had registered a case under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) on the basis of the first information report (FIR) filed by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in January.
 
 “We have managed to seize diamonds and jewellery worth nearly Rs 2.82 crore from our raids conducted at two jewellery processing units at Sitapura Industrial area and one at Special Economic Zone(SEZ), Sitapura,” said a senior officer of ED on the condition of anonymity.
 
