NEW DELHI: Travelling in an autorickshaw, bus or taxi could become much safer soon. Transport department’s helpline will now track complaints from commuters in real time from an operations control room that has been set up at the department’s headquarters. 

 At present, when a call is made to the transport department’s helpline 42400400, the complaint is registered but the compilation of all complaints is sent to the department’s headquarters a day later, following which action is taken. This is going to change soon. 
 
 The department has set up an operations control centre at its headquarters in north Delhi’s Civil Lines. 
 
 
  
  
 
 Transport officials claim is the first of its kind in India. The helpline will now shift to this centre and all calls would be monitored in real-time. 
 
 “As soon as we get a complaint about an autorickshaw or taxi for overcharging or misbehaviour, for example, we will be able to track the location of the vehicle on our monitors. As we have the phone numbers of all public service vehicle drivers, an SMS would be immediately sent to the driver as a no tice,” said a transport department official. 
 
 “The SMS would be a warning and thereafter action would be taken against the vehicle owner for non-compliance,” he said. 
 
 There are nearly 90,000 autorickshaws and about 40,000 taxis in the capital and all these vehicles are mandated to havefunctional GPS devices as part of permit conditions. 
 
 “We are taking the help of   (NIC) to develop a software for us through which the location of these GPS devices could be tracked,” he said. 
 
 “It is also important that all these vehicles have functional GPS devices, which is not the case at present. We are soon going to crack down on such vehicles and impose a fine of up to Rs 5,000 for noncompliance,” he said. 
 
 Delhi government already had a control centre to track public service vehicles, primarily buses, through GPS, which was operated by DelhiIntegrated Multi-Modal Transit System. 
 
 The results, however, were not satisfactory and the contract was recently terminated.   (DTC) is now going to replace GPS devices in its buses as the present ones are mostly non-functional. 
 
 The department’s operations control centre is now almost ready and would go live this month. The centre will have eight different sections that will monitor different activities. 
 
 The first section would monitor autorickshaws and other public service vehicles, the second would track taxis and the third would track and monitor private buses including school buses and chartered buses. 
 
 The fourth would track all DTC and cluster scheme buses, the fifth would monitor response from panic buttons that are soon going to be installed in DTC buses, the sixth section would deal with pollution-related data and challans, the seventh section would monitor live camera feed from border check points and the eighth section would monitor enforcement teams deployed across the city.
 
