PUNE: The sports ministry on Tuesday issued a guideline to the   (NSFs) and the Indian Olympic Association in order to streamline the process of acknowledging and identifying coaches of athletes at various stages.

 
 Sports minister Rajyavardhan Singh Rathore told TOI that the ministry is in the process of creating a database where records of coaches of all athletes will be saved.
 
 "Every coach involved in the development of the sportsperson, from the grassroots to the development and to the excellence stage of an athlete, will be recognised and appreciated in future. We are creating a database of coaches through Khelo India," Rathore told TOI.
 
 When asked about the thought process behind the idea, Rathore said, "This will create a strong sporting culture in the country, wherein each of the deserving coaches will share part of the glory (of their student)."
 
 The NSFs and the ministry have faced tricky situations in the past while acknowledging the right coach of an athlete after their success on the international stage. Be it rewarding  's coach after the wrestler's Olympic medal or identifying the rightful coach of skier Jagdish to accompany him at the Winter Games.
 
 According to the letter issued by the sports ministry, the NSFs and the   are expected to keep a record of coaches of their athletes and acknowledge their efforts whenever the athlete is rewarded by state bodies.
 
 "During various championships conducted across disciplines, it must be ensured that in the felicitation ceremony of players/champions the name of the coach along with the name of schools/colleges/ universities where their athletes studied must be announced. The name of such coaches may include those who are associated with the athletes at various stages," the ministry directive states.
 
 The ministry has also asked the NSFs to distribute cash awards 'appropriately' among the coaches of the athlete.
 
 "If any cash award is involved for coaches, then it should appropriately be distributed among the coach(es) engaged with the athlete at various stages since beginning," the letter said.
 
 The letter also asks the NSFs to train their coaches under continental or world body-accredited programmes.
 
