CHENNAI: The state will add 101   across 14 government medical colleges during the 2018 admission season, taking the total PG seats to 1,585. 

 The Medical Council of India has approved additional seats for Chennai-based hospitals Kilpauk Medical College (5 seats in MD pathology) and Stanley Medical College (3 seats in MD forensic medicine). 
 
 Colleges in south TN — Thoothukudi Medical College (32), Tirunelveli Medical College (4) and Theni Medical College (11) — will get 47 seats in surgical and medical streams. In the west, Coimbatore Medical College will get 2 seats, Salem 3 and Dharmapuri 6. While Trichy will add 19 seats, Chengalpet gets 16.
 
 Until now, the state had 1,088 PG medical degree seats and 396 diploma seats across 14 state-run colleges. In 2017, the state added 300 PG seats. The state selection committee will surrender 50% of seats to directorate general of health services for admission through all-India quota and students will be admitted to the remaining seats based on NEET scores. Applications will be available from March, selection committee secretary Dr G Selvarajan said.
 
 A six-member committee under Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation chairman P Umanath is working on a report of primary health centres and government hospitals in remote areas. Doctors working in these areas can be given additional marks over their NEET scores , as incentives.
 
 While the committee is preparing the report, the state is also waiting for the Centre to come out with amendments in the Post-Graduate Medical Act, health secretary J Radhakrishnan said. “The committee is working out the difficult and remote areas in a scientific manner based on terrain, reach and the kind of work,” he said.
 
 In 2017, the postgraduate admission process was muddled in a legal battle at the Madras high court. Admissions had to be cancelled and the process was stalled twice. The state government had given 50% of the seats for the all-India quota and the reserved half of the remaining seats to doctors working with the government. 
 
 Government doctors working in difficult, hilly or remote regions of the state were given additional three marks for every year of their service, while those working in primary health centres (PHCs) got an additional two marks for every year of service. However, the court struck it down saying that there can be no reservation for government staff and asked the government to draw up a list of difficult and remote areas as specified by the Medical Council of India Act.
 
 
