Vadodara: Even as the two reportedly rusticated students of Institute of Leadership and Governance (ILG) of MS University (MSU) – Romel Sutariya and Manisha Solanki – have threatened a state-wide protest if they do not get justice, MSU officials have claimed that they had not completed their admission process in time. 

 The two students have alleged that they were rusticated for meeting JNU student leader Kanhaiya Kumar during their study tour but according to MSU officials Sutariya had not paid fees in time, while Solanki is not eligible for admission at all.
 
 “On taking up the directorship of ILG, during my interaction with Solanki I learnt that she was not eligible as she had not cleared her SSC and that Sutariya had not paid fees,” said ILG director Dr Reena Bhatia. She added that Solanki was promised of admission by previous director since Solanki had earlier lied that she had cleared HSC but her certificates were lost in floods. Later she had promised to submit her SSC certificate but that was also not received by institute, Bhatia said adding that it was only during her interaction with Solanki it had come to light that she was not eligible.
 
 Bhatia claimed that she had reminded Sutariya about fees when the for their study tour but he promised to pay after returning. “He told me that he will incur expenses during tour so he said that he will pay after returning. Even during tour, I had reminded him and he said that somebody will come on his behalf and pay, but that too did not happen,” said Bhatia.
 
 Regarding Solanki, Bhatia said that she wanted to get documents of all students in place therefore Solanki was also asked to submit her documents. “After the tour the two students did not report to the institute and we had put a general notice asking students to submit their fees and documents before March 5. But Solanki came next day with fees and we did not accept since her documents were not in place,” said Bhatia. She also said that all these months they had allowed both of them to attend the classes on the goodwill.
 
 Even the admission brochure of the course says that any student can attend the class to understand the concepts that are taught by ILG, she said.
 
 On the other hand, Sutariya has said that if the vice-chancellor does not decide about their case within next three days, they will launch a state-wide agitation along with students of all education institutes of the state. “We were made promises by the previous director which were not fulfilled and suddenly we were removed from the WhatsApp group of the course and the other students were told that since we had not paid we were removed,” said Sutariya. He also added that he has recordings of the call he had with previous director which he would like to bring on record in his dialogue with vice-chancellor.
 
 
