 
 
  
  
  Having shot to fame with serials like   and Siya Ke Ram, Karthik remained non-controversial in the house and he even managed the shed the tag of being arrogant by cracking jokes in the house with the members. Even in doing tasks, he gave his best. Even when he was the captain he handled it well. But he always stayed with Shruti and other celebrity contestants which people might take into account while voting. He rarely expressed is frustration or anger which has put him in good stead to win title.
  
  
  Kannada rapper Chandan Shetty is another top contender to win Bigg Boss title. His co-contestants call him as a master strategist in the house considering the way he handled task. Though, many contestants have said that he is tough to understand, he has enthralled all by composing songs instantly. He was very close to another contestant Diwakar. He had love hate relationship with  . Initially, he had a crush on Shruti, but he stayed away from her. When it comes to doing task or handling captaincy or with his behaviour he was very astute compared to other contestants.
  
  
 Diwakar’s name in top five has come as a surprise to everyone. He entered the house under common people category. He was in all sort of confusion in the first two weeks by saying that there are two groups in the house common people and celebrities, but after receiving tips from  , he has managed to play his cards perfectly. Diwakar by profession is a salesman, but viewers are impressed with the level of maturity he showed in the house. It was while doing a politician task he created a laugh riot. Even he had stayed in secret room for a week.
  
  
  Niveditha is the youngest contestant in the house who is also dubsmash artist. Even she entered the house under common people category. She was trolled online for her   when she first entered the house, since then she has come a long to be in the finale. Evicted contestants have said that she is not innocent. The fact that she is the youngest and an emotional girl became an advantage for her to stay in the house. She lives in her own fantasy world.
  
  
  Shruti who is a   girl settled in Mumbai became   crush as soon as she entered the house. She had her share of struggles as she was not fluent in Kannada language, but she made it up with her matured behaviour. She didn’t quarrel with anyone in the house. Though, she became a fodder for many gossips, she remained unperturbed by showing great temperament. She had good rapport with almost all contestants in the house.
