Some of the city’s   remain sceptical on whether the benefit of a price cut in cardiac stents would be passed on to patients this time. Stents constitute around 40% of the overall angioplasty cost.

 It was estimated that the 2017 capping would slash the cost of treatment significantly, but market surveys have shown that even a 75% price cut did not have the desired impact. A study commissioned by AdvaMed, a medical device trade association, and conducted by IQVIA, found that the reduction had resulted in just an 8-18% drop in overall angioplasty procedure costs for patients undergoing a single-vessel procedure.
 
 Reiterating the findings, cardiologist Dr Dev Pahlajani, who heads interventional cardiology at  , said most trust hospitals brought down the cost of packages soon after the 2017 order. “But many corporate and midlevel hospitals didn’t pass on the benefit to patients. They tweaked other components of the package to make up for lost margins,” he said. “With an 85% price reduction, the cost of packages should have straightway dipped by 15-20% or more. At hospitals where bills are transparent, one can see a clear reduction of at least Rs 50,000 in stent prices alone.”
  
  
 Cardiologist Dr Ashwin Mehta from Jaslok Hospital, Pedder Road, voiced the same angst. “Profitmaking hospitals played a dirty game even as trust-run hospitals faithfully responded to government’s call to make heart procedures more affordable. A trust-run hospital like Jaslok slashed their package by up to 30% last year. Corporate hospitals quickly found out ways to regain their profit as they were… in the business of selling stents,” he said. Comparing India’s existing stent prices with Germany’s, he said a type that costs around Rs 21,000 there is being allowed to be sold here for Rs 28,000. “Private hospitals must cut down on profiteering lest they may prompt the government to take stricter action.”
 
 The government must also look at sustainability, said Dr Ram Narain, the executive director of Kokilaben Hospital, Andheri. “We relooked packages after price capping last year. We try to be market-sensitive as in a free market and we can’t be overpriced. A package’s cost involves a lot of components, including several internal ones that have to be factored in. We also have to look at financial feasibility. One must understand that there is a threshold below which you can’t reduce the price of packages,” he said. “Margins often determine business and sustainability models.”
 
 
