They were just like regular fuchchas in their first year till a few months back. But life took a different turn for Seemran Pookulangara,   and   when they participated in OPPO   2017. Initially, none of the three was sure about participating in the competition, but Seemran took part because she wanted to try something new while Viren and Anirudh gave in to peer pressure and participated because their “friends forced them to.” 

 After winning the titles from their respective colleges, as well as the Delhi Times Fresh Face finale, the winners were sent to Mumbai for the national finale where they competed with other winners and wild-card entrants from 11 cities. While Seemran and Viren were winners from Delhi, Anirudh Rathdur was chosen as the green-card entrant to compete in the national finale. After spending around 10 days in Mumbai and attending several sessions with the who’s who of the industry, Seemran and Viren were selected as the first runners-up at the national finale, while Anirudh was chosen as the second runner-up. In this week’s campus page, all the three winners from Delhi – probably the coolest of all the freshers – speak to us about how the contest changed their lives and what they learnt from the experience. 
 
 
 
  
  (L-R) NIFT’s Seemran Pookulangara,  ’s Viren Tak and BVIMR’s Anirudh Rathdur 
 
  
 When Anirudh Rathdur was chosen as the first runner-up at the Delhi finale, he was disappointed because he wanted to go to Mumbai. Little did he know that destiny had other plans for him. He was chosen as one of the wild card entries to compete at the national finale in Mumbai. “I had this regret after the Delhi finale that I would not be able to go to Mumbai but I guess life has its own way of working out. Few days after the Delhi finale, I was at home when I got a call from the organisers asking for a video of my finale’s performance. I sent that and within three-four days, I got a reply that I was selected as the green card entrant,” he says.
 
  
  Anirudh Rathdur
 College: Bharati Vidyapeeth Institute of Management and Research First runner-up, Delhi Times Fresh Face and second runner-up, National Finale
 
 “It was a great learning experience. This competition has given me more clarity. Now I know where to start, where I need to focus and what my temperament should be if I wish to enter the field of acting or modelling. All the people we met have taught us what to expect from the industry, and the amount of hard work we are expected to put in. My parents are very supportive, but they have told me that I should finish my graduation first. So I will make sure that I put in my 100% in my BBA for them,” he adds.
 
  
 Recounting her first day at the audition, Seemran says, “I was not even going to apply for this. I had participated in another competition too, and I was not selected for any position, so I thought I wasn’t made for this. But this has been a super exciting journey. I had one of the most amazing experiences of my life. We got the chance to meet people from the industry who gave us a sort of reality check on what to expect and what not to expect in the field. We learnt so much about how to present ourselves in front of an audience or just interact with people in general. I have grown so much because of this journey. I could have never imagined myself in a room full of so many strong people, and that I had so much to take away from each one of them.”
 
  Talking about the finale where Sidharth Malhotra was the chief guest, an excited Seemran adds, “I hugged Sidharth Malhotra and it felt amazing! Standing with him on stage was a dream come true.”
 
  
  Seemran Pookulangara
 College: National Institute of Fashion Technology, Delhi Winner of OPPO Delhi Times Fresh Face 2017 and the first runner-up, National Finale
 
 Many of us would have been clueless on what to do with our lives in the first year of college, but for Seemran, the competition has opened another door in a different field for her. “I think it is all because of the Fresh Face journey that I am seriously thinking of modelling and acting as career options. For one of our profile videos for the national finale, we had one entire day just being in front of the camera, and acting and talking. There was not a single moment during that day when I felt, ‘Oh, my god, I am tired. I don’t want to do this’. It was a beautiful day and I enjoyed each and every moment in front of the camera,” she tells us.
 
 
 Viren Tak says that he participated in the competition because his friends forced him to. “Luckily, I was chosen as the first runner-up from our college. The whole journey was unexpected. We got a lot of exposure when we went to Mumbai, and it was an amazing journey. I did not expect it to be this way because I was expecting a lot of competition, we were nervous before the finale but they planned the journey in a way that it was a lot of fun as well,” he says. Talking about the new-earned fame after winning the title, Viren adds, “Now, people in my college know me because they think I have achieved something big. I am also working on a parallel platform for myself. I think the journey has opened one more gate in my life which I never thought was ever there in my life.”
 
  
  Viren Tak
 College: Bennett University
 Winner of OPPO Delhi Times Fresh Face 2017 and first runner-up, National Finale
 
 While he may have missed a few classes because of the competition, Viren says that it is very important to allot time for everything that a person plans to do. “I keep setting time, I allot my time for each activity. I knew when I went to Mumbai that my studies will go for a toss, but as soon I came back, I completed all my assignments. That is how I am managing. As far as my parents are concerned, they did not expect me to win anything because they thought that I came here only to do my course. When they saw me winning the Delhi finale, they encouraged me for the national finale and they are really happy knowing that I have other career options as well,” he tells us.
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
