Kolkata: Mukul Roy will be Bengal BJP’s captain in the upcoming panchayat elections. The decision was announced on Saturday at a poll workshop from where state   president Dilip Ghosh gave the battle cry.

 “The battle won’t end within the four walls of the booth. It will continue beyond the booths and we are ready to take it to the end, up to the crematorium. Those who have the guts to face the odds — police, hospital, court and crematorium — should come forward,” Ghosh said, pointing to ‘risks’ involved in the polls.
 
 Trinamool’s Birbhum president Anubrata Mandal lost little time in responding to the “crematorium” allusion. “It seems Dilipda has a wish to go to the crematorium. He can avail the ‘Boitarani’ vehicle Didi (Mamata) has introduced recently for the last journey,” Mandal said.
 
 Trinamool secretary general Partha Chatterjee said: “BJP is trying to pep up its party activists. But few people in this state take them seriously. I have said earlier that the Bengal BJP is like a turned turtle on a table. BJP, like the inverted turtle, is throwing its limbs desperately but not making any progress,” Chatterjee said.
 
 State BJP leaders, however, have identified 21 Lok Sabha seats in Bengal and are concentrating on the panchayat areas under these constituencies. The party will hold separate workshops for wom-en, SC/STs, and OBCs in each assembly segment to identify candidates for the panchayat polls. The candidate’s image and consistency will be the prime criteria for getting tickets, BJP state general secretary Sayantan Basu said. Former BJP MLA from Basirhat Shamik Bhattacharya will assist Roy in the battle.
 
 Birbhum BJP on Saturday held an agitation in front of Dubrajpur police station as a “warm-up” drill for the battle ahead, asking police to stay neutral. “There were 75 men threatening Birbhum Police. Policemen are courteous that they let these men go. Next time, these people won’t be able to return as they did today. If they attack police, they will have to go back with injuries, too,” Mandal said.
 
 
