NEW DELHI: The   is of the view that any debate for evolving consensus on synchronised   and state elections should be conducted by a government body,   or ministries like law or parliamentary affairs as the poll panel’s mandate is limited by Article 324 of the Constitution to superintendence, direction and control of preparation of electoral rolls and conduct of elections. 

 “EC is not mandated by the Constitution to evolve consensus among stakeholders, including political parties, on feasibility or shape of the legal framework needed for simultaneous polls. Its role begins only after the necessary amendments in the Constitution and Representation of the People’s Act have been made. That is when   will be under a mandatory obligation to hold synchronised Lok Sabha and state elections in accordance with the new legal framework,” a senior EC functionary told TOI. 
 
 It be recalled that former President Pranab Mukherjee had in his Republic Day-eve speech in 2017, suggested that EC take forward the simultaneous poll idea in consultation with the political parties. 
 
 According to EC’s calculations, once the amendments to the Constitution as well as   are in place, it may take the Commission around four months to procure the additional 7 lakh EVMs/VVPATs needed to hold polls to the Lok Sabha and state assemblies together. “Around 25 lakh EVMs and VVPATs would be needed for synchronised parliamentary and assembly elections. If the legal framework is in place over the next few months, we can arrange for production of additional 7 lakh machines from September 2018 onwards, soon after we get delivery of 17 lakh VVPATs ordered so far. These will be with us by January 2019. However, a three-month advance notice would be needed by our suppliers to procure the components before starting production. We can also place the order once the Bills to amend the Constitution are moved, to ensure timely delivery for synchronised polls in April-May 2019,” said a Commission official.
 
 The logistical details will be arranged provided the government can finalise the Constitutional and RPA amendments to extend/curtail tenure of the state assemblies, in good time, feels EC. A source indicated that the complexities involved in preparing the legal framework may make the exercise an 8-10 month affair. 
 
 As per EC’s suggestion shared with the law ministry in 2015, in order to prevent premature dissolution, a no-confidence motion should be moved along with a further ‘confidence’ motion in favour of government to be headed by a named individual as the future Prime Minister and voting done on the two motions together. 
 
 In case dissolution cannot be avoided and the remainder of term of the Lok Sabha is not long, President may be authorised to carry on administration of the country on aid and advice of a Council of Ministers to be appointed by him till the next House is constituted. Alternatively, if the remainder of the term is long, a fresh election may be held and term of the House should be for rest of the original term. 
 
 The same principles may be applied in case of a legislative assembly. 
 
