BENGALURU: The BBMP on Friday stopped work on a controversial integrated skywalk across MG Road at the Mahatma Gandhi Circle, following public outrage. Citizens claim the structure will be a blot on aesthetics of the prime heritage avenue, block the view of Bapu’s statue and is being pushed stealthily, with an eye on advertisement revenue.

 “Minister for Bengaluru development and town planning KJ George has asked us to keep the project on hold as of now,”   (BBMP) commissioner Manjunath Prasad told TOI. However, labourers were seen shifting sand at the work site later in the afternoon.
 
  
 Conceived as a means of mopping up ad revenue and tendered in 2013, the integrated skywalk project had been taken up by the BBMP on DBFOT (design, build, finance, operate and transfer) model. But work on erecting the structure began only recently.
 
 The structure involves two wings — a foot overbridge across MG Road and another across Queen’s Road.
 
 
 
 The work order was issued in 2014-15 and   was tasked with construction and maintenance of the skywalk for a period for 20 years. Though the project was to come up at Anil Kumble Circle, it was shifted to Mahatma Gandhi Circle in 2015.
 
 As per the original agreement, BBMP doesn’t have to spend anything on the project but would earn Rs 15.3 lakh per annum as concession fee. But BBMP authoritiesclaimed their revenue would go up to Rs 20-25 lakh per annum through advertisement tax.
 
 The civic work taken up by the Palike without any public consultation came to light when Srinivas Raju, managing trustee of  , filed an RTI application.
 
 “I had mooted a proposal to construct Town Square near the Gandhi statue, which is when I learnt the Palike had planned to construct a skywalk near the circle. I thought BBMP was digging the footpath for drain work. But later I got to know it had something else on mind. I filed an RTI application seeking to know the purpose of the construction work. The revelation was shocking,” said Raju. He circulated details about the construction among civic groups and on social media.
 
