HYDERABAD: Will anybody take ownership of  , the glory of Hyderabad? Sadly, the imposing edifice that has stood the vagaries of nature and ravages of time for the last four centuries seems to have suddenly become an orphan, thanks to lack of coordination between the   state archaeology department and the Archaeological Survey of India (ASI).

 Permission for the ongoing Charminar Pedestrianisation Project (CPP) was issued by the state archaeology department, though the historic monument is under the direct supervision of the ASI. The state archaeology department has no direct or day-to-day role in the upkeep of Charminar. However, since the director of the state archaeology is also the competent authority created under the   (NMA) Act, it deals with all permissions for works connected to important monuments.
 
 
  
 
 Apparently, the ASI has been kept in the dark as far as digging of the area close to Charminar using vibration-causing excavators is concerned. While the ASI maintains that the   (GHMC) has not approached it for use of machinery for CPP, the competent authority argues that thus far the ASI has not reported anything “adverse” about the work.
 
 The GHMC obtained permission for “providing granite pavement” at buffer zone around Charminar. Nowhere the permission letter talks of digging with machinery. Moreover, the permission is subject to “required clearances/NOCs from relevant agencies”. Ironically, for civic officials the ASI does not appear to be the “relevant agency”.
 
 NR Visalatchy, director of state archaeology and competent authority, told TOI that permission was given to the GHMC as part of CPP and laying of any flooring involves earth work as otherwise it would be impossible. “ASI has so far not reported anything adverse about the CPP to the competent authority,” she added. On the other hand,   superintending archaeologist,  , said the civic authorities did not seek permission for digging with machinery.
 
 While the GHMC and the competent authority wait for the ASI to give its “adverse” report if any, heritage experts argue that it is common sense that use of vibration-causing machinery near an old monument like Charminar is a threat to its structural stability and beauty.
 
 “The competent authority can only forward the requests to National Monuments Authority. The competent authority cannot give permission on its own for ASI monuments,” said INTACH Hyderabad convener P Anuradha Reddy adding that the excavators employed at Charminar may be small but they run on chain. “While moving and digging, they cause vibrations. Those with tyres cause less vibrations,” she said.
 
 Heritage experts and architects point out that after digging there is no consolidation and compaction of soil.
 
 Contrary to the claims of the GHMC that the machines used do not cause vibrations, a perusal of the manufacturer’s brochure shows that the machine in question weighs 7,000 kgs with a digging force of 4,800 kgf (kilogram force) and ground force of 3.2 kgf/centimetre square.
 
 According to experts, any vibration intensity below 40 Hz frequency causes maximum damage to buildings, particularly if they are old and the site of vibration is very close to the structure.
 
