Nagpur: Acting tough on those found involved in the irregularities in the procurement of spare parts and diesel, municipal commissioner Ashwin Mudgal has on Friday suspended five — three officials and two employees.

 Those who were suspended include incharge of NMC workshop department and assistant commissioner of Ashi Nagar zone, Vijay Humne. Others include mechanical engineer from workshop department Rajesh Ghurmule, incharge of hotmix department Ujjwal Lanjewar and motor vehicle inspectors Manish Kayarkar and Vikram Mankar.
 
 The irregularities in spare parts procurement had come to fore a month ago and in diesel purchase and consumption a few days ago. 
 
 Congress corporator Sandip Sahare had exposed the irregularities in procurement of spare parts in the general body meeting held on December 8. Armed with documents obtained under RTI Act, Sahare had alleged that spare parts were procured at rates 2-10 times higher than that prevailed in the market. Officiating mayor Deepraj Pardikar had ordered immediate suspension of Humne, Ghurmule and Lanjewar. All the three had requested Mudgal to first conduct an inquiry.
 
 Mudgal seems to have initiated the action against the culprits to avoid heat in the general body meeting summoned by mayor Nanda Jichkar on January 20.
 
 NMC official from general administration department told TOI that Kayarkar and Mankar have been suspended for irregularities in diesel purchase and consumption. “Some drivers are also involved in the siphoning of diesel and likely to face action in coming days. All these staffers used to purchase diesel more than requirement for NMC’s vehicles. Then they used to sell it and pocket the money,” he said.
 
 Following the suspension orders, deputy municipal commissioner Ravindra Deotale has asked assistant commissioner Prakash Warhade to look after the charge of Humne. Technical assistant in city transport department Yogesh Lunge has been given charge of Ghurmule and Lanjewar.
 
 Similarly, assistant workshop inspector Dhurin Bhotmange has been asked to take care of Kayarkar’s charge. Replacement for Mankar is awaited.
 
 Four NMC employees were suspended in three different cases in the last one week. Action against two more employees attached to Dhantoli zone is pending and is likely to be initiated on Monday.
 
 
