RAIPUR: Blaming it on GST and demonetization for his poor income and inability to pay off loans, a middle-aged businessman committed suicide by jumping in front of a train in Chhattisgarh’s   district on Sunday. In a whatsapp audio that went viral, the man has mentioned names of loan sharks “because of whom he felt instigated to end his life.” His mutilated body was found from tracks on Sunday. 

 Fifty-year-old   Chauradiya recorded a whatsapp audio, clicked picture of his suicide note and sent them to whatsapp groups of businessmen and traders. 
 
 Mahaveer was a finance broker and had financed huge amount of cash to several businessmen in Rajnandgaon.
 
 In a 3.29 minute audio, Mahaveer took names of three prominent businessmen accusing them of not returning his Rs 70-75 crore and harassing them to the extent that he decided to end his life. 
 
 “I am going to commit suicide, I am tired of my life, demonetization and GST has badly affected my income. It has become difficult to collect money from people. The two businessmen (names withheld) have eaten up my money while I am badly feeling harassed and tortured with the phone calls from loan sharks whom I failed to return their money because those who took money from me didn’t return. I can’t face people who had trust on me and gave me money. I pray you all to save my family and take care of them. However, my brothers and family members would return all the money I have borrowed from people,” Mahaveer said in the audio and asked for forgiveness. 
 
 Rajnandgaon SP   said that as soon as the message went viral on Whatsapp, his family reported the matter to police and a search was launched Mahaveer’s body was recovered from railway tracks behind BNC mill.
 
 While probe has been ordered, it’s been verified that it was Mahaveer’s voice in audio clip and police was recording statements of people associated to him. A case was registered and the people’s whose name Mahaveer has pronounced in audio, would be interrogated. 
 
 Mahaveer is survived by a wife and two children. 
 
 According to information, Mahaveer had financed over Rs 700 crore in different parts of state and was under tremendous pressure to pay off the loan to market. But he was ditched by those whom he had financed money that instigated him to commit suicide.
 
 Mahaveer has accused businessmen of ditching him and he repeatedly asked for forgiveness from his family and the people who trusted him. Though he ensured, his brother and relatives would return their money.
 
 
