A fifth World Cup triumph was just a win away for   and their star   had his eyes set on the Golden Boot. They were up against hosts France in the final and Brazil were considered favourites for the title.

 
 
 
 But France were no mean opposition. A brace from   and a goal from Emmanuel Petit left Brazil shell-shocked at the Stade de France. The loss was so shocking that Brazilian government opened an investigation to study the ‘conspiracy theories’ behind Brazil’s lacklustre display in the summit clash.
 
 It was France’s first title and they became the seventh nation to win a World Cup, and the sixth host to clinch the World Cup. The victory sparked an outpouring of Frenchmen on the streets, not seen since the French Revolution, and the football win was seen as a triumph of the nation’s wide — at times, fragile — multiculturalism The tournament was expanded to 32 teams from 24, with Croatia, Jamaica, Japan and South Africa making their debuts.
 
 The tournament didn’t start well though for Zidane. The   World Player of the Year in 1998, became the first French player in World Cup history to get a red card as he was sent off in their game against Saudi Arabia. The playmaker sparkled on his comeback as he played a key role in the quarters and semis against Italy and Croatia respectively. His spectacular show in the final made him an instant national hero.
 
 On the other hand, Brazil’s Ronaldo, who reached France with a formidable reputation after scoring 34 goals for Inter Milan, had four goals before the final. He was in prime form against the Netherlands in Brazil’s semifinal clash. But he could not take his side to glory due to an unexplained and tragic incident before the final.
 
 It all began after the team’s lunch outside Paris on the day of the final. Everything looked normal till the team returned to team hotel. That’s when the 21-year-old started to convulse forcing his roommate Roberto Carlos to cry out for help. Team doctors and other players rushed in and were alarmed seeing their star player in such a state. After taking medicines, Ronaldo went to sleep.
 
 He was initially omitted from the XI for the final and Edmundo’s name included. However, after high drama, Ronaldo himself declared that he was fit and played the final. But he was just a pale shadow of what of he was before the final. He could hardly make an impression in the final as they went down in one of the most disastrous final outings in Brazil’s World Cup history.
 
 
