NEW DELHI:   are interrogating   to find out if he had established contact with Islamic State (IS) handlers to target India. The Azamgarh module of   (IM) was known to have joined   after forming a separate group called Ansar-ul Tawhid fi Bilad al-Hind (AuT).

 While police have not been able to establish if Ariz had ever travelled to Syria, his   and stint in Saudi Arabia are being explored. For now, cops have been able to establish that he was in touch with IM founder Riyaz Bhatkal and some ISI operatives.
 
 Tauqeer, who was arrested in January, and Ariz staying back in Nepal and their disclosures of attempting to revive IM has triggered fears of their indirect association with IS through Azamgarh module members.
 
 On the sixth anniversary of the 2008 Batla House encounter, AuT had in 2014 uploaded a video of a speech of IS chief Abu Bakr Al Baghdadi with Hindi, Urdu and Tamil subtitles. The video had hailed IM operatives who died in the encounter as “martyrs”. This was the first time that any terror group — that too one based in the Af-Pak region — had lauded the victims of the encounter. TOI was the first to report this development.
 
 After fleeing from India after the encounter, most IM members shifted base to Nepal and Pakistan. The Bhatkal brothers made their base in Karachi. 
 
 However, IM split in 2013 over payoffs from ISI, which kept Iqbal and Riyaz Bhatkal under their control. A few men from Azamgarh — Abdul Khader Sultan Armar, his brother Shafi Armar, and others — were smart enough to dodge them.
 
 This group fled to Afghanistan and Pakistan and became part of the al-Qaida for a while. However, they soon left Qaida as they believed that only IS would be able to survive in the long run. AuT, formed in November 2013, was dissolved after being adopted by IS.
 
 Most of the IM members who joined IS are now believed to be dead. Sources said Dr Shehnawaz, Bada Sajid and Aamir Reza Khan were killed while fighting for IS in Syria. Shehnawaz was killed in a blast at a hospital in Raqqa. There are reports of deaths of other IM members, like Sultan and his brother Shafi Armar, in Syria as well.
 
 
