NAVI MUMBAI: The wide roads, recreation zones, traffic junctions, drainage system and seamless movement of pedestrians from one sector to the other in the picturesque   of Navi Mumbai are the creation of   recipient  . In fact, the master plan of Kharghar township, the biggest residential node in the Panvel City Municipal Corporation, was made by Doshi when he was a consultant with Cidco. 

 Pune-born Doshi, who is 90, is the first Indian to receive the Pritzker Architecture Prize, the   equivalent for the field. 
 
 According to Cidco’s chief planner Ramesh Dengle, “Without the basic structure of Kharghar node, which was designed and conceptualized by Doshi, it would not have been possible for us to develop such a beautiful node having wonderful landscapes like Central Park, Golf Course, Utsav Chowk and Shilp Chowk, besides wide roads, footpaths, hangout zones, green belt and scenic traffic islands. Doshi’s contribution to this node has been immense as he prepared the blueprint of the basic layout and conceptual plan.”
 
 The Kharghar township, with a population of over three lakh, is spread over 2,000 hectares along the foothills of Parsik Hills. Encompassing 40 sectors, Kharghar has the famous Pandavkada waterfalls and a large park on 100 hectares and the credit for it all goes to Doshi had drawn up the master plan in the early 90s and late 2000s. “Doshi gave this township a different shape compared to other nodes of Navi Mumbai,” said Kedarnath Ghorpode, a retired town planner. 
 
 Former Cidco chief planner Dinkar Samant, who had worked with Doshi closely for over a decade, reminisced, “There was no tender system to appoint consultant firms; Cidco chose Doshi to design the Kharghar node. He first first visited Belapur’s Artist Village to study the housing project before taking charge as consultant. Though he did not design any buildings or landmark structures, he is credited for Kharghar’s master plan, which is mush better than other nodes in entire Navi Mumbai. All the roads and other amenities you see today are his brainchild.”
 
 Leading developer Rajesh Prajapati said, “We salute Doshi for his visionary master plan to create such a well-planned node.”
 
 Doshi will travel to Toronto in May to receive the Pritzker Architecture Prize and give a public lecture.
 
 
