GUWAHATI: The All   Students' Union (Aasu) and 28 organizations representing various ethnic and tribal communities of the state has announced a series of protests against the proposed Citizenship (Amendment) Bill 2016 and in demand of an error-free National Register of Citizens ( ). 

 After the conclusion of a crucial meeting of the organizations in the city on Tuesday, Aasu president Dipanka Kumar   said the organizations jointly decided to observe an eleven-hour mass hunger strike in the city on May 29 demanding fulfilment of their twin demands. Leaders of all the participating organizations will join the hunger strike.
 
 While the organizations decided to take out a mass satyagraha rally demanding fulfilment of their demands in the city in the first week of June, where protesters from different parts of the state are expected to gather, Nath said the constituent organizations will continue staging satyagraha rallies in various districts after the May 29 hunger strike.
 
 Aditya Khakhlari, the general secretary of the apex tribal organization of the state,  , said, "If Meghalaya government can take a decision to oppose the Citizenship (Amendment) Bill 2016 proposed by the Centre to make migrants of six minority communities eligible for citizenship of India, why can't the Assam government oppose the amendment bill that has kept Assam on the boil for quite some time?"
 
 He added that the Centre and the state government will have to face massive resistance in the coming days if the bill is not withdrawn.
 
 All Bodo Students Union (Absu) president Pramod Boro said the BJP-led government at the Centre is showing concern to foreign nationals instead of protecting the interests of their own citizens. "Protecting the language, culture and identity of the people of India should have been the top priority of the government. But, the keenness of the Centre to pass the bill tells a different story," said Boro. 
 
 Giving a stern warning to the Centre and the state government over the move to grant citizenship on religious lines, chief adviser of Aasu, Samujjal Bhattacharyya, said implementation of the bill cannot be allowed at any cost. "We demand a time-bound action plan to implement the Assam Accord signed with the Centre, which clearly says all illegal immigrants who entered Assam after March 25, 1971 must be detected and deported. The   government must undertake urgent measures to seal the Indo-Bangladesh border and initiate the process of signing a pact between the India and Bangladesh governments so that the illegal immigrants can be deported to the neighbouring country," said Bhattacharyya. 
 
 
