CHENNAI: After getting in the crosshairs of the AIADMK leadership with his comments against the "rotten system," actor   on Monday sought to snatch away that party's biggest asset- the MGR legacy. He also sought to occupy the leadership vaccum caused by  's death and M  's retirement. 

 "I am not MGR, but I can give you a rule like MGR's, a rule for the poor," said Rajini at MGR Educational and Research Institute. Dismissing statements that he delayed his entry into politics because of Jayalalithaa, Rajini said, "I don't have to remind you of 1996. If I feared her, I couldn't have opposed her then. Jayalalithaa and Kalaignar (M Karunanithi) were great leaders. But the throne has fallen vacant now. I will fill the space. God is on our side."
 
 Deviating from the refrain of politicians on the love for Tamil, Rajinikanth urged the Tamil youth to learn English. "For success in any profession, you need English proficiency. Learn the language. Just by speaking Tamil, the language doesn't grow. For the language to grow, you should grow," he said. He promised to use technology and seek expert advice to provide a rule as good as MGR's.
 
  On a personal note, Rajinikanth continued: "My marriage to Latha would not have been possible without MGR. I couldn't have built   marriage hall without MGR. When I was hospitalised for two months in 1978 after a nervous breakdown, chief minister MGR saw to it that I recovered well." 
 
  Almost every minute of half-an-hour speech had the name MGR; using such encomiums as 'yuga purushan', 'deiva piravi', 'marma manidhan' and 'maaya manidhan' triggering repeated rounds of applause. "It would be foolish for one to assume that he can become like MGR. There will be no one like him for another 1,000 years." 
 
  The function, organised by the institute founder A C Shanmugam, who was a Lok Sabha member of the AIADMK during MGR's rule, marked the former chief minister's centenary as also the 30th anniversary of the institute. 
 
 
 
 
 Rajinikanth said Shanmugam has virtually turned the function into an election rally.
 
 “I was not going to talk politics as this is an educational institution. But Shanmugam, my friend of 30 years, lit the fire.” Sharing the dais with Rajinikanth was former Chennai mayor and AIADMK leader Saidai Duraiswamy.
 
 
 “Shanmugam insisted that he wanted (for the function) someone from the film industry as MGR rose to power from the cine field. He favoured me as I was also a friend of MGR.” The ‘Kaala’ actor said he had to leave cinema and enter politics as politicians were not doing their job. He warned seasoned politicians, who have been making fun of him, to be cautious of the public’s intelligence.
 
 
 “The political bug bit me in 1996. From then on I have been following politics closely. I have learned from greats like Kalaignar, Moopanar and Cho. I know how politics works. I know the path is filled with thorns and snakes. If I am coming to politics at this age, why are you discouraging me? Let us stop this politics of name calling,” Rajini said.
 
 
 Responding to barbs at his ‘spiritual politics’, Rajini said, “My spiritual politics will be about purity. It means all people are one. It is not to say that Dravidian politics does not possess these qualities. Belief in God is spiritual politics. Soon you are going to see what spiritual politics is all about.”
 
 
