AHMEDABAD: In a major operation, Sardarnagar police rescued a girl aged 14 from Luni town of Jodhpur district, and arrested four persons including two women who had abducted the girl and sold her to one  , 25, of Luni for Rs 50,000. Primary investigations revealed that Javda struck the deal with the human traffickers after failing to get a bride in his own community.

 Inspector R M Virani of Sardarnagar police station said they have arrested Raju Javda alias  , 25, of Luni in Rajasthan, Maina Vaghela, her daughter-in-law Jamna, and one   for abducting the girl from   in April 2017, and selling her off to Raju Javda.
 
 “We are hunting for Kaniya’s wife, Pinky, who was involved in the abduction and trafficking. Stringent sections of human trafficking laws and POCSO have been applied in the case. The girl has been handed over to her father,” said inspector Virani.
 
 According to police sources, Raju Javda and Mohan Kaniya knew each other as both belong to the same district. “Raju had told Kaniya to find a girl for him as he was not getting a bride within his community in Rajasthan,” said a police source.
 
 About a year ago, Kaniya met Jamna at   and told her about Javda. “Kaniya asked her to abduct a girl and hand her over to him.
 
 “A few days later, Jamna, her mother-in-law Maina and Kaniya’s wife Pinki set off in an auto to spot a girl in Kubernagar area. They lured a girl from their own community to sit in the auto on the pretext of getting her some good clothes and other items,” said an investigator.
 
 Inspector Virani said they then took the girl to Luni in Rajasthan and sold her to Javda for Rs 50,000. “The girl’s father, after searching and failing to find her, lodged a complaint of kidnapping at Sardarnagar police station,” a police source said.
 
 On Friday, cops got a tip-off that the girl has been sold in Luni town of Jodhpur in Rajasthan to one Raju Javda. “A team was immediately dispatched, and with the help of Jodhpur police, they rescued the girl, arrested the accused, and rushed back to Ahmedabad,” said inspector Virani, adding, “The accused are in police remand. We are probing whether the gang is involved in more cases of human trafficking or not.”
 
 
