BENGALURU: It was through the work of an Oxford-educated, British anthropologist, who had fallen out with both the Church of England and Gandhi, that   found his path as an author and historian. 

 "At the age of 21, I had realised I was a second-class cricketer and a second-class scholar. Then I came across the work of Verrier Elwin. He was a wonderfully witty writer, so I decided to become a sociologist," said Guha on Saturday, while delivering a talk on 'The Art and Craft of Historical Biography'. Guha explained why he believes the biography, unlike novels, plays or poetry, is an underdeveloped genre in India-giving seven reasons why-and also gave the audience a few rules or 'laws' for writing good biographies.
 
 Inspired by the Elwin's life and work, Guha decided to write his biography, but was dissuaded by everyone around him. "Sociologists and historians in India are trained not to delve into the personal side of human relationships. Biography requires historians to align with literature whereas historians are only trained to align with social science."
 
 He said he had to confront "this nervousness and get into the human side of history". What a novelist does to her characters, the biographer has to do to the personalities, but unlike a novelist, the biographer cannot make up dialogues or events. "Be prepared to spend five years digging into unknown archives if you decide to be a biographer. You have to work very hard, there's no flash of inspiration like the poet or novelist has," said Guha, who is currently working on a  
 
  The fact that a biography or an autobiography of a person is on the shelves is no reason not to attempt another one. "Even the greatest people must have more than one good book on them," said Guha. 
 
 "What is an autobiography of a famous person? It's a   against his future biographer. If you dig, you will always find that even the best autobiography is a well-crafted collection of mis-remembered memories, a work of silences and evasions," he said. It's the job of the biographer to correct those misremembered memories, fill those silences.
 
 Future biographers will find it harder to find reliable primary and secondary sources of material as current politicians don't keep records or write. "To write a biography about [Prime Minister Narendra] Modi will be very difficult because he doesn't write. He only tweets and someone else writes his tweets," he said.
 
  But the author of books on environment, history, politics and cricket ended on a hopeful note, saying that a number of young writers were trying their hand at biography. "The only danger to biography writing is the RSS types   The Marxists wrote second-class history, the RSS writes mythology," he said. 
 
 
