CHANDIGARH: Haryana's cash-for-job scam involving various employees of the   (HSSC) allegedly taking bribe by promising government jobs, has now come under the scanner of the   and Haryana high court. The court has retained the record of investigation to examine the issue at length. 

 Justice   has taken cognizance of the issue after hearing a petition filed by   resident   in relation to the irregularities in selection of the heavy vehicle drivers in the state transport department.
 
 During the hearing of the case on April 16, the HC was informed about the cash-for-job scam in the on-going recruitment processes of different posts. Last month the chief minister's (CM) flying squad had raided the office of the HSSC at Panchkula and lodged an FIR against certain officials of the commission under various sections including that of the Prevention of Corruption Act and the IT Act.
 
 On this, Justice Raina had directed the state government's counsel to file a status report in a sealed cover in consultation with the Special Investigation Team (SIT) constituted to investigate the matter.
 
 When the matter came again for hearing on April 25, superintendent of police (CM flying squad) Dheeraj Setia, ACP  , crime branch inspector Aman Kumar remained present in the court, along with a status report of the case in a sealed cover.
 
 Justice Raina ordered to open the report and retained it on court's record. With this, the ongoing investigation in the case would now be examined by the HC. The matter would now come up for hearing on May 29.
 
 On April 5, chief minister's flying squad had arrested employees of the HSSC and other departments who were extracting money from the candidates promising them selection for government jobs. Some middlemen were also arrested.
 
 These arrests were made after the CM office had received complaints regarding some employees running the cash-for-job racket. The matter was investigated by CMO's flying squad and accused were arrested.
 
 A case under the Prevention of Corruption Act, cheating and forgery and various sections of the IT Act was registered at Panchkula's Sector 5 police station. Meanwhile, sources confirmed that the investigation agency is at present examining the call records of some of the accused to find their links with any senior functionaries of the commission in the racket. 
 
 Sources also added that some accused may make confessional statements in the case.
 
 
