CHENNAI: Come next academic year that begins in June, students from 28 corporation schools would have access to smart classrooms designed as part of the smart city project.   in   was among the first to get a smart class, quietly inaugurated on May 4 by the chief minister through video conferencing.

 
 One smart classroom has been provided in each of the 28 schools selected by the civic body. Equipped with a smart board for accessing online resources, tablets for each student, speakers, WiFi connection, and CCTV monitoring, the 40-seat classrooms are expected to provide a better and more interactive learning experience. Corporation schools in Triplicane, Aminjikarai, and Thiruvanmiyur are among those provided with the smart classes.
 
 “All the chapters are available online and can be accessed by the teacher through a desktop computer. The course material accessed by the teachers are displayed on the smart board, which can also be used for writing through an inbuilt software,” said A Sasikala, headmistress, of   in Triplicane. Students of each class will have access to one hour of smart class every week, she added.
 
 A teacher at the school said that two teachers from each of the 28 schools underwent a two-day training to get well-acquainted with the technology before students get to use the classrooms.
 
 “The smartboards have an inbuilt software that is multi-touch, so the way of teaching remains the same, except it’s empowered with the use of the internet,” said an official from  , which developed these classrooms by providing the electronic equipment for these classes free of cost.
 
 “Kids these days are adept at using technology. We are hoping that the use of tablets will transform the learning process, make it more interactive, and help them retain more,” said a teacher of the third grade at the middle school.
 
 According to sources in the education department of the corporation, 22 of the 28 smart classrooms are ready. “Auxiliary work pending in the rest of them will be done in a week or two,” said an official. Apart from the smart class, teachers are expected to implement changes in the teaching pattern, besides encouraging extra-curricular activities. “There will be focus on peer support apart from teacher-based learning to improve the confidence levels of students and encourage learning in groups,” said a teacher.
 
 
