PANAJI
  Perhaps respecting the media officer who is also on this conference call,   prefers to do the interview in English rather than his mother tongue, Konkani.
 
  He handles the questions confidently. There is no hesitation on his part, and he knows questions about   will be unavoidable. He has readymade answers too!
  
  For three years, Romeo was the darling of the Goan crowd. The winger spent three seasons with FC Goa and was even handpicked by former coach and Brazil   legend Zico for a stint in Brazil. He promptly returned for another shot at glory in the  , and it all ended in tears last season as FC Goa finished at the bottom of the pool.
  
  A new season had even more surprises for him. FC Goa, as expected retained his friend and another poster boy, Mandar Rao Desai, but chose goalkeeper Laxmikant Kattimani over him. He didn’t get picked up at the domestic player draft too. That would have hurt but he doesn’t show.
  
  “I am not sure. I don’t know why Goa did not retain or pick me at the draft,” Romeo told TOI, without the slightest hesitation.
  
  Romeo will face his big test this season when he is up against his former side at the Nehru Stadium in Fatorda. Romeo will aim to silence the same crowd who used to cheer his name as loudly as possible for the last three years. It will be surreal, admits Romeo, but for those 90 minutes, he knows, as a professional footballer, what is expected of him.
  
  “Goa is a special place for me. The club (FC Goa) will also remain close to my heart but when I step on the field, all that matters during those 90 minutes will be three points for  ,” said Romeo.
  
  Romeo lasted for little more than an hour in the home clash against FC Goa when Gabriel Cichero’s red card resulted in a 1-5 humiliation. Since then much has changed, and as Delhi Dynamos coach Miguel Portugal said, Romeo himself has made significant progress.
  
  “Romeo was not a regular (for Delhi) at the start but now he is normally playing in the team. He has improved. I have confidence in him and he is now an important player for our team,” said Portugal.
  
  Romeo will still receive a warm welcome when his name is announced at the start of the game. But for 90 minutes, possibly even the home fans will keep their love for the winger on hold.
