Actor Prakash Rai, who is being trolled for questioning PM Narendra Modi’s silence on issues and criticizing right-wing groups, says he will not hesitate to enter politics if he is repeatedly dared or threatened. P 4 “I don’t have any intention of entering politics. But if there’s tremendous pressure there is no reason why I should not come. If someone repeatedly dares me to come to politics I will come, it’s not a big issue,” Rai said after receiving the ‘Person of the Year’ award given by the Press Club, Bengaluru. Rai’s statement, which was made in the presence of chief minister Siddaramaiah, triggered speculations about his political entry in the run-up to the state assembly polls, likely to be held in April-May.  Rai had hit headlines earlier when he questioned the PM’s silence over the murder of journalist Gauri Lankesh. Rai has also been vocal about communal politics allegedly played by the BJP. Rai had recently slammed Union minister of state for skill development Anantkumar Hedge for his comment on ‘changing the Constitution’ as it mentioned the word ‘secular’. “What does the minister know about the Constitution?” Rai had asked and described the minister as a ‘dangerous man’ who should be shown the door. Rai has been criticized by right-wing groups and his advertisers too had been pressured to terminate their contracts with him. “I have to respond as an artiste. I’m not the type who will remain quiet even after knowing the truth. The media too has to respond. We should not remain cowards. If we don’t speak out or raise our voice, we would make the society coward. We should not allow that to happen,” Rai retorted.  Rai has been getting more active in the social and intellectual circles in the state in recent times; he has undertaken wildlife awareness campaigns and taken part in communal harmony walkathons. Siddaramaiah lauded Rai, stating: “We endorse all social activities undertaken by Rai. He has been getting threats for his stand on various issues. But what wrong has he done? I think Rai should get more vocal in the coming days.”