KOLKATA: Jadavpur   vice-chancellor   has gone on a month’s leave to recuperate from “agitation fatigue” amid speculation that he might quit. Chancellor and governor Keshari Nath   has approved his application.

 Das, perceived as one of the most liberal VCs who believes in propagating democracy on the campus and holds dialogues with students, said his health had deteriorated after the last gherao, which lasted more than 35 hours. “I had asked the chancellor for a month-long leave, which has been approved. I have thus taken leave since February 1. My doctor has advised me complete rest for a month as I fell sick after the last months’ students’ agitation when I was gheraoed for a long time. Apart from a failing health, I also have some personal and professional commitments. Once my leave is over, I shall take a call on a date to return to JU and join,” said Das, who had faced as many as four demonstrations over students’ election in the past six months.
 
 His statement gave rise to speculation that Das, who along with several senior JU officials had been confined to his cabin over various demands on several occasions, seemed displeased with the slew of protests on the campus.   had even earlier said that if need be, he would not hesitate to step down.
 
 The last agitation was held in mid-January when students demanded that Das revoked the government order to rename the students’ union as students’ council and announced a date for the elections. On failing to get a nod from the V-C, the students staged a demonstration, confining Das to  , the main administrative building overnight. As the gherao continued, Das fell ill twice, following which he had to be given medicines. Only when the executive council agreed to take the demands forward by forming a committee to negotiate the matter and thereafter, placing the recommendations before the government that the gherao was called off.
 
 Asked about his post-leave plan, Das said, “My physician had asked me to take complete rest for a month. Only once the leave ends will I decide on the next course of action.”
 
 Sources in Raj Bhavan said Das had a long talk with the governor after sending his letter, seeking leave. Tripathi had sent him a response. Pro-VC   will take charge till Das returns.
 
 
