 is a scheme initiated by the Government of India, which literally means  . The prime aim of the scheme is to encourage parents of a girl child in order to create a fund for the future education and marriage expenses for their child.

 Under the scheme a small deposit scheme for the girl child. This national-level scheme was launched as a part of the ' ' campaign and provides income-tax benefit. 
 
 A Sukanya Samriddhi Account can be opened any time after the birth of a girl till she turns 10. A minimum deposit of Rs 1,000 and maximum of Rs 1.5 lakh can be deposited in the scheme throughout the financial year. An interested candidate can open the account in any post office or authorised bank. 
 
 The account will remain active for 21 years from the date of it is opened or till the marriage of the girl after she is 18 years old. 
 
 To meet the requirement of her higher education expenses, partial withdrawal of 50 per cent is allowed after she is 18 years old.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The account matures after 21 years as noted from the date of opening or whenever the girl child gets married, whichever happens first, subject to the following: 
 
 *In case where the marriage of the account holder takes place before the completion of the time period of 21 years, the operation of the account will not be permitted after the marriage date. 
 
 *Also, if the account is closed before the completion of 21 years, the account holder will have to produce an affidavit showing that the girl child is not less than 18 years as on the date of closing of the account. On maturity, the balance, including the interest outstanding in the account, will be payable to the account holder after the withdrawal slip and passbook are submitted. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 As of 2018, SSY offers the highest tax-free return with an assurance that comes with the exempt-exempt-exempt (EEE) status. The   (contributions) qualifies for   benefit and the maturity benefits are non-taxable.
 
