JAIPUR: In the election year, chief minister   on Saturday inaugurated Ajmeri Gate Junction project and dock less bicycle sharing scheme, which are developed under the Centre’s  . 

 At the event held at Ajmeri Gate, Raje also laid the foundation stone for four projects that will be developed under the smart city mission. These projects include development of kiosks on nullah, underground cabling in area-based development (ABD) area, 24x7 water supply in ABD area and multi-level car parking at Chaugan stadium. 
 
 Explaining about the inaugurated projects, an official of   official said, “Development of Ajmeri Gate is part of the Smart Road Project which will be implemented in 10 streets in the ABD area over a length of 7 kilometres. Implementation in Kishanpol Bazaar has started and other streets also will be taken up shortly.”
 
 Under the smart roads, the JSML would develop facilities such as safe movement of pedestrians, safe crossing at junctions, smart parking, smart lighting, smart poles, smart Wi-Fi, environmental sensors etc. 
 
 Briefing about the dock less bicycle sharing scheme, an official said, “State-of-the-art bicycles will be provided for rent on bicycle sharing scheme. The bicycle provided to the user would be s with smart locks for safety, real time GPS tracking, powered by solar energy and built in alarm for theft alerts.”
 
 The JSML have developed 25 dock less stations in ABD area of the walled city and at each stations has 10 bicycles. “These bicycles will be rented at Rs 10 per hour. All the payment would be accepted through cashless mode like payTm wallet etc”
 
 For a period of six months the space for parking would be provided by JSCL, which would be reviewed once the period is over. There is no other financial commitment from JSCL.
 
 Foundation stone laid for four projects 
 
 Development of kiosks on nullah at two places: It is proposed to beautify the surroundings of two prime areas and the development of kiosks on nullahs near Park Prime Hotel at Krishna Marg and WTP near JLN Marg. The total cost of the project is Rs 7.92 crore.
 
 Underground cabling in ABD area: The total cost of the project is Rs 34 crore. Presently, the electrical cables in the city are erected overhead and most of the times they are hanging haphazardly creating a major threat to the lives of the residents.
 
 24x7 water supply in ABD area: This project is planned under Govt of India AMRUT scheme which would ensure 24x7 water supply to the Walled City area of Jaipur. This project would be done within two years . The total cost of the project is Rs 50.68 crore.
 
 Parking in Chaughan stadium: This project would accommodate 400 cars. The estimate cost to construct each parking is Rs 15 crore and work will be completed in one year.
 
 
