AURANGABAD: A 27-year-old man was allegedly burnt alive on the   border in the early hours of Monday by three men, one of whom is suspected to have taken Rs 21 lakh from him to purchase a truck.

 The   have launched a search for the alleged killers based on  
 
 The deceased,  , hailing from Samnapur in Beed district, worked as a computer operator with the Vasanwadi gram panchayat in the district. He also ran an internet cafe and an agency which helped prepare PAN, Aadhaar and other documents for people.
 
 Ambad deputy SP Ramesh Sonawane told TOI, “Ingole had come to Aurangabad around six months back and was attending a course in preparation for his banking exam. During this period, he got to know the suspect and had invested the money with him to buy the truck. The vehicle was rented out to a Mumbai firm, which recently stopped its operations. Ingole then started asking the partner to return his money.”
 
 Sonawane said that when matters began coming to a head, the partner, identified only as Dhumal, called up Ingole on Monday saying he wanted to discuss returning the money. Dhumal took Ingole in his car in which the other two suspects were already seated. They stopped at a dhaba in Pachod where they allegedly forced Ingole to consume alcohol.
 
 Sonawane said the trio took Ingole to Shahagad-Patharvala near Kuran phata in   of Jalna district. “There, they assaulted him and tied his hands and legs. One of them illegally fetched petrol in a bottle from a petrol pump. They threw the petrol on Ingole and set him ablaze,” he said.
 
 
 
 While at the dhaba, Ingole got a call from his friend Tukaram Gholap in Beed, who is also a gram sevak. Ingole told him that he was at the dhaba with Dhumal and two others. A couple of hours later, Gholap again called Ingole, who informed him that he was facing a threat to his life from the trio. Gholap called up a friend in Aurangabad, who contacted a policeman attached to the Pachod police. They went to a few dhabas in the area but got no information about Ingole.
 
 Ingole had also sent a text message to his older brother, Govind, who is a civil engineer in Pune. In the message, Ingole had mentioned that he was with Dhumal who owed him Rs 21lakh. He also told his brother about the threat to his life.
 
 A security guard employed with the Beed-based Samarth cooperative sugar factory saw the burning body and informed the Gondi police. A team headed by inspector Machindra Survase went to the spot. Ingole’s identity was known from his PAN and Aadhaar lying nearby. The police contacted his family which identified the body.
 
