NEW DELHI: Success in   consolidated BJP’s big gain in   in 2016 and helped get over the wobble caused by the close   election. Party chief   said on Saturday that the 
  set the tone for the Karnataka polls and the 2019 Lok Sabha elections. 

 Getting the better of   was of particular satisfaction for Shah, who saw the win as an ideological vindication and said the mandate proved that “Left is not right for any part of the country”. 
 
 Having campaigned against “red violence” targeting BJP-RSS workers in Kerala, Shah framed the results as a vindication of PM Modi’s leadership and rejection of the Left’s criticism of BJP’s politics as majoritarian. 
 
  
  said BJP’s performance in the north-east had set the tone for an equally impressive performance in Karnataka. Setting the bar higher for the party, he said BJP’s “golden era” will unfold only when it forms governments in Kerala, West Bengal and Odisha. This can be a bridge too far as of now, but Shah has believed in setting tough targets, and wins in Assam and Tripura are expected to buoy cadres.
 
  “It is a day of joy for me and crores of   workers. The victory of BJP is important in many ways...It is an endorsement of the leadership of PM   by the people of the north-east,” Shah said, adding, “Results are encouraging for the 2019 Lok Sabha polls.” Shah recalled his visit to Tripura soon after becoming the party chief when he was greeted by only nine workers. 
 
 He said the victory is relevant for several reasons as BJP bagged barely 1.5% votes in 2013 and its candidates, barring one, lost their deposits. “Today, we have got over 50% votes,” Shah said. The BJP chief said wins in the northeast underlined that the party had long eclipsed its “Hindi belt” image. 
 
 After its big breakthrough in Assam, BJP had spread its wings making winning alliances. In Assam, the decision to go with AGP was crucial in ensuring a big win. In Tripura, it was IPFT. Between Assam and Tripura, BJP made it to office in Arunachal Pradesh even after the 2014 assembly polls voted a   government. BJP’s victory lap extended to Manipur in 2017, where Congress, despite being the single largest party, failed to form a government.
 
