JOHANNESBURG: South African President Jacob   broke his silence on Wednesday to disagree with the ruling party’s order to resign and say he’d done nothing wrong, setting the stage for his almost certain ouster in a parliamentary vote on Thursday after years of corruption scandals. 

 A defiant Zuma told state broadcaster SABC that he had been treated unfairly by the ruling African National Congress, which had told him to resign by the end of Wednesday after rejecting his request to stay in office for some more months. “I’m being victimized here,” Zuma said, complaining that deputy president  , his expected successor, and other ANC leaders had not given him clear reasons about why he should go. 
 
 “I need to be furnished on what I’ve done,” the 75-yearold president said. He added that “I will be out” if parliament votes against him in a motion of no confidence as expected on Thursday. Zuma said he would make another statement soon, raising the possibility that he might change his position and resign voluntarily rather than face the humiliation of his ouster by the combined votes of the ruling and opposition parties. 
 
 He has survived previous motions against him, but this time he no longer has the support of the ruling party’s leadership. Also on Wednesday, police raided the home of prominent business associates of Zuma who are accused of being at the center of corruption scandals that have infuriated the country, hurt the ANC’s popularity and weakened the economy. 
 
 An elite police unit entered the compound of the Gupta family, which has been accused of using its connections to the president to influence Cabinet appointments and win state contracts. The Guptas deny any wrongdoing. The   unit said the early morning raid resulted in three arrests. 
 
 The SABC, South Africa’s state broadcaster, said a Gupta family member was among those detained. A senior judicial source said police expected to arrest up to seven more people and that Gupta family members would be among them. However, a Gupta family lawyer said none of the Gupta brothers were among those held. “I can’t tell you who has been arrested,” the lawyer said. 
 
 The ANC was accelerating efforts to end the country’s political limbo and push through a power transition in one of Africa’s biggest economies. The party wants Zuma to end his second five-year term early so that it can build up support ahead of 2019 elections. Ruling party leaders outlined a speedy timetable, with Ramaphosa set to be elected in parliament to succeed Zuma in time to deliver the delayed state of the nation address on Friday evening. 
 
 “We can no longer keep South   waiting,” said Paul Mashatile, the ANC’s treasurer general. An opposition-sponsored motion of no confidence in Zuma had been scheduled for February 22, but the ruling party joined opposition leaders in pushing for the date to be moved to this week in a rare show of unity among rival political factions. 
 
 Ramaphosa, elected as the ANC’s new leader in December, has said the government will do more to fight the corruption that has damaged the ANC, which has led South Africa since the end of white minority rule in 1994.
