KOLKATA:   is going for   yet again to tide over cash management problems in the   regime that has led to a temporary fall in central and state revenues. This despite the popular belief that   will stand to gain in the new tax regime because GST is a consumption-based tax and Bengal is a consumer state. The Bengal government has decided to go for a Rs 2,000-crore market borrowing to be repaid in 10 years to run the development schemes.

 The decision was taken even after the state improved on its macro-economic parameters taking the state’s Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) to a projected Rs 10,48,678 crore — 15% higher than what it was in 2017-18. State finance minister Amit Mitra had hinted at the cash crunch in his Budget speech. One of the reasons is the fall in both central and state revenues during this period because traders have to adopt the new GST format when the digital tax filing process is having its teething problems. Also, the Centre has shifted the transfer of funds to states from the first day of the month to the 15th day.
 
  
 Anticipating the problem, the state finance department in January 2018 changed the state Treasury Rules and made way for intertreasury fund transfers for the execution of the development schemes that had come to a halt. But this didn’t help the state to tide over the cash crunch, because unlike in the earlier VAT regime, the state is left with little avenues to mop up revenue and have to depend on the Centre to transfer the state’s share. All this, when the state’s estimated expenditure for 2018-19 is pegged at Rs 1,95,829 crore, marking a 5.2% increase over the revised estimate in 2017-18.
 
 The expenditure when matched with the total receipts minus borrowings for 2018-19 has been estimated at Rs 1,48,834 crore, leaving a gap of Rs 46,995 crore that the state has to raise through taxing items outside GST such as petrol and diesel, liquour and through other non-tax revenues such as stamp duty, electricity duty, road toll tax. Add to this the annual outgo of Rs 48,000 crore due to debt servicing.
 
 The redeeming feature in the entire budgetary management is the fact that the state has improved on the debt to GSDP ratio by increasing its GSDP over the years since it conformed to the Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management Act and raising its borrowing limit. On the other hand, the state also brought down its liabilities on salary and wages account by downsizing the government.
 
 
