COIMBATORE: Civic body officials sealed a nearly 75-year-old private commercial complex, which was in a dilapidated condition, near the   and Hospital ( ) at   here on Thursday.

 Barely six hours after the civic authorities sealed the building, a group of 10 people, all tenants owning shops in the complex, attempted to tamper with the seal.
 
 When alerted, corporation officials approached the police, who rushed to the spot and stopped them from breaking the seal. After a heated argument, the police took all the 10 to the Race Course police station for inquiry.
 
 With deep cracks and peeling roofs, chances were high that the building would have collapsed anytime, said an official attached to the office of town planning officer.
 
 While the corporation officials used to conduct regular inspections to check the stability of the buildings, district collector had issued an order to inspect and ensure that all the buildings in the district were stable after the roof of Somanur bus stand collapsed killing five people, said S  , town planning officer.
 
 Subsequently, notice was issued to both the owners and the tenants of building under Section 327 (1) of the   Act, 1981, which enables demolition of dilapidated buildings, he added.
 
 “Notice to vacate and demolish the building was sent about four months ago, but they refused to accept the same. This forced us to take action against them,” Ravichandran said.
 
 Pointing out that the building premises usually see large crowds owing to its proximity to the CMCH and the railway station, an official source said, “We sealed the building that houses 13 shops due to its unsafe condition. This will also help prevent any untoward incident.”
 
 It is first building to be sealed by the corporation in the recent times that too after sending repeated remainders to the tenants to vacate the complex, the source said.
 
 Officials have been conducting inspection on a regular basis and sending notices to building owners to reconstruct the buildings that are found to be in a bad condition, the source said. “While most building owners demolished and started to reconstruct their buildings after receiving notice, this was the only case where owners and tenants behaved irresponsibly,” the official added.
 
 The police, meanwhile, said action would be taken against those who attempted to tamper with the seal after an inquiry.
 
 
