JALANDHAR: From the hype of getting 100 seats in Punjab assembly elections in 2017,   appears to be battling with   (none of the above) in the Shahkot assembly bypoll. The fall in its vote share is huge from 41,010 votes in 2017 to 1,900 votes this time even as NOTA was pressed by 1,268 voters.

 
 Party leaders from Delhi, who had complete control over Punjab affairs, had repeatedly claimed that they would get 100 seats. Till the middle of 2016, the perception appeared to be in favour of AAP as the party’s Maghi conference in January 2016 completely outshone Congress and SAD rallies. However, after the party started announcing candidates it started losing the perception battle.
 
 If SAD has been looking for a point of return as it was relegated to third position in the state assembly by AAP, the latter appears to be battling to stay afloat. Party had performed very badly in Gurdaspur parliament byelection, where also it could not save its security deposit and in municipal elections also it was decimated. The party was built on a perception and it lost the perception battle and its base too, which it had been failing to recover.
 
 “Rest of the damage was done by party chief Arvind Kejriwal’s apology to SAD leader Bikram Singh Majithia, which led to huge disappointment among party volunteers,” said a Shahkot-based AAP volunteer. However, sacking of the then AAP convener, Sucha Singh Chhottepur, in 2016 on the basis of a so-called sting operation caused huge damage to the party and its decline started. 
 
 In the 2017   even as the party finished third in Shahkot, it was a very respectable defeat with a huge vote share in the constituency. During the run-up to the bypoll, its 2017 assembly election candidate Amarjit Singh Thind joined SAD. That neither helped Akalis nor himself as the data made it clear that almost all those votes went to the Congress. AAP failed to even reach a five digit mark though its candidate Rattan Singh Kakkar Kalan is a philanthropist and has been doing quite a few projects of social service – biggest of which included giving plots of 1,000 yards each to 16 poor Dalit families in his village from his own land. 
 
 Two more candidates of AAP also joined SAD – Hans Raj Rana from Adampur and H S Walia from Jalandhar Cantt. The party’s fourth candidate from Jalandhar district, Chandan Grewal, who contested from Kartarpur in 2017, resigned from the party but he did not join any other outfit.
 
 
