Patiala: The three friends, including two minors, arrested for the   of a 25-year-old man had carried out two more killings, police announced on Friday.

 The police had arrested the three on April 18 for the murder of  , a resident of Khatra Colony, Nabha. He had gone missing from his house on November 27 last year. His body was recovered from a canal near Mehas Bridge in Nabha the next day. 
 
 
  
 
 Police said the three had earlier murdered 17-year-old   Lal over old enmity on December 28, 2016, and then his friend  , 22, who had gone missing in July 2017.
 
 In Sunil case, his hands were tied at the back with a belt and legs tied together with a shoelace. On the basis of evidence and sequence of events, police had zeroed in on the three accused. Ranjit Kumar, alias Nata, 19, one of the three accused, told police during interrogation that he along with the two minors had strangulated Sunil with a shoelace. He told police that Sunil was against the advances being made by one of the two minors towards his (Sunil’s) sister, the motive for killing him. They tried to destroy evidence by throwing the body in the canal. Ranjit said that two minors were his neighbours, as was Sunil.
 
 During further interrogation, Ranjit admitted they had Roshan Lal. Roshan had had an altercation with Ranjit during which he had attacked the latter with a sharp-edged weapon and injured him a few months before he went missing. Out of vengeance, the three called Roshan to strike a compromise over the issue and took him to a vacant plot near Nabha bypass road, where they strangulated him with a piece of cloth. The accused then threw his body on the railway track to make it look like an accident.
 
 Police said Ranjit also admitted they had killed 22-year-old Karamjit.
 
 Ranjit told the police that   had got suspicious that they (he along with the two minors) had killed Roshan. As Karamjit started asking questions, the three got wary that he might reveal it to the cops and decided to eliminate him. They again hatched a conspiracy under which they invited Karamjit for smoking near the canal, where they strangulated him.
 
 SSP   said given the barbarism with which the two minors joined hands with the 19-year-old to execute three murders over the last two years the district police have decided to file an appeal before the trial court that the two minors be treated the majors while deciding the case.
 
 Shaminder Singh, in-charge, crime investigation agency, said all the accused were school dropouts and taking odd jobs to sustain a living. They hailed from families of migrant labourers who were now settled in Nabha.
 
 
