CHENNAI: Taking a tough stand, the Tamil Nadu government on Friday asked agitating transport workers to resume work by tomorrow or face departmental action as the indefinite strike by some transport unions over wage-related issues entered the third day.

 State Transport Minister M R Vijayabaskar said many staff have returned to work today and expressed confidence that normal operations could resume tomorrow.
 
 Scores of commuters were left stranded at various bus terminals in Chennai and other districts as the indefinite Tamil Nadu   by the transport workers' unions continued for the third day.
 
 "Many have returned today. We believe (more of them) will come tomorrow also. If not, departmental action will be initiated as per law," he told reporters in Karur.
 
 The minister claimed that despite the stir, 80 per cent buses were running in the state.
 
 More than 70 per cent government buses continued to remain off road as the strike entered day three.
 
 Even as temporary staff and private buses pitched in, public transport has crippled in most parts of the state including Chennai. 
 
 To deal with the increasing demand for other means of transport in the wake of the bus strike, the Southern Railway (SR) decided to run regular services despite a scheduled maintenance work. The SR had cancelled many suburban trains today and tomorrow for track maintenance works. The Chennai central suburban terminus witnessed a huge crowd on Saturday due to the bus strike.
 
 The Chennai Division of the Southern Railway will run all the 670 EMU services in the Suburban sectors on 6th and 7th (Saturday and Sunday) of January in view of the bus strike instead of the reduced 602 weekend services. The extra rush of passengers are being handled at 254 UTS (Unreserved Ticketing System) at various stations in Chennai Division, along with 60 ATVMs (along with ATVM facilitators) in 41 locations as well as 24 JTBS (Jan Sadharan Ticket Booking Seva) counters in 16 locations. 
 
 
 
 
 In Koyambedu, several commuters were stranded as buses were not plying on Saturday morning. A large number of people were seen queued up waiting for the private buses at the different bus stops.
 
 Koyambedu CMBT bus terminal which is normally busy during the weekends sported a very deserted look during the wee hours of Saturday. However, Metropolitan Transport Corporation (MTC) has managed to bring in more temporary staff so that nearly 1,300 of the total 3,800 buses could be operated. 
 
  
  
 Many have opted to take the local trains and metro trains as alternative. 
 
 There was no clarity on whether schools and colleges would be closed due to the bus strike. Messages suggesting that college managements have declared so, most of them are functioning today. Some leniency has been shown in recording attendance of students as many were turning in late. 
 
 The situation is no different in other districts including Trichy, Madurai and Cuddalore where private buses are ferrying stranded passengers along arterial routes in the cites and those traveling to suburbs and rural areas are still left in the lurch. 
 
 In Coimbatore, TNSTC claimed that 40 percent of buses were operated on Saturday. However, those from Coimbatore travelling to native places during weekends were waiting for hours at Gandhipuram and Singanallur bus stands. 
 
 Shops adjoining the terminal have also shut their doors. Police protection has been given to all the 33 depots to avoid any untoward incidents. 
 
 "I appeal to employees to come back for duty, honorable court has also asked them (strikers) to come back. As compared to yesterday, more staff have reported for work today, we are also employing private drivers, situation will improve soon," said MR Vijayabhaskar, state transport minister.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 With the travel plans of thousands of commuters falling apart on the second day of a statewide transport strike, the Madras high court on Friday stepped in, rapping the trade unions and directing employees to return to work immediately.
 
  
  
 
 The trade unions, however, stood their ground, turning defensive while the government jumped got into firefighting mode, roping in temporary drivers and conductors to tide over the crisis. The government just about managed to operate bus services with a skeletal fleet that AIADMK-affiliated unions were left to run.
 
 The strike, following the failure of talks on wage revision and clearance of pending dues with Transport Minister M.R. Vijayabhaskar, was declared on Thursday.
 
 The workers of the transport department have been demanding for a pay scale revision to Rs 30,000.
 
 However, the authorities agreed to pay only Rs 24,400.
 
 
 
 
