..

  Times News Network
 
  Chandigarh
 
 The Chandigarh district court directed to attach the official car of the Director General Transport Haryana, Chandigarh and the bus of Haryana Roadways following an execution application moved by a retired employee of Haryana Roadways department. IThe vehicles attached by the court would be auctioned on February 16, 2018, if the department is unable to pay the amount as per the court orders. The orders for the auctioning of the car (HR 01W 0001) and the roadways bus (HR 68A 8141) were pronounced by the court of Additional Chief Judicial Magistrate (ACJM), Barjinder Pal Singh after a retired employee of the Haryana Roadways, Satbir Singh moved an execution application for not getting retirement benefit of Rs 195000 from the department.Satbir Singh who got retired as Chief Inspector from the Haryana Roadways had earlier filed civil suit in the district court, in July 2015. 
 
 As per the civil suit, Satbir mentioned that he joined the Haryana Roadways department on August 8, 1967 as conductor and then he was promoted to the post of Sub Inspector on February 5, 1990. Singh was promoted to the rank of Inspector on June 26, 1996 and then he was promoted to the rank of Chief Inspector on November 9, 2005. Singh stated in his application that he got retired from the department then on April 30, 2006.
 
 Singh stated that his junior in the department, Jai Pal who belonged to a reserve category, had joined the department on February 18, 1968, however roadways department gave him promotion before him. Satbir Singh mentioned in his application that, not only Jai Pal but two other employees, Ummed Singh and Meghraj Singh were also promoted before him. Following which, Satbir Singh, moved a civil suit in the district court and sought from the department through the court to get equal salary and equal pay scale like the three others. The court then passed the order in favour of Satbir Singh on July 13, 2016 order in favour but when the Haryana Roadways did not gave the payment benefits to Singh, he moved an execution application in the court. The court ordered to attach the government vehicle of Director General Transport Haryana and the Bus of Haryana Roadways. 
 
 The counsel of Satbir Singh, Advocate D.R Kaith and Advocate Vishal Gupta argued in the court that after the government vehicles were attached by the court, the General Manager of Haryana Roadways, Sonipat had stated in the court that the payment of Satbir Singh has been released to him, however the accounts officer, Vinod Jain had stated that the payment of Satbir Singh will be cleared in two months time. When the accounts officer of the department did not appeared in the court after two months, the court then issued a show cause notice to the Haryana Roadways and the vehicles were ordered to be put on auction. 
 
 
