BENGALURU: A 60-year-old woman and her 34-year-old son, who were being held in captivity by a police inspector, allegedly fell to their death from his fifth-floor flat in   village, near Whitefield, in the early hours of Tuesday. The son had married the inspector's sister against her family's wishes three years ago. The sister is missing since February 17. 

  Kadugodi cops detained the inspector,  , who was with the   district special branch. Four days ago, Chandrappa brought   and her son   K from Shahapur town in Yadgir district of   region and confined them in his house in the MSC Empress apartment complex. 
 
 
 
 
 Sundaramma, 60, and her son Mounesh K, 34, who were being held in captivity by inspector Chandrappa, allegedly fell to their death from his flat on Tuesday.
 
 Mounesh, a KSRTC bus conductor, had married Chandrappa’s sister Manjulamma in 2015. The inspector bitterly opposed it as it was Mounesh’s second marriage and he belonged to a different caste.
 
 
 Time and again, Chandrappa forced his sister to return to his house in Bangarpet in Kolar. Manjulamma, 30, was at her brother’s house when she went missing. It was in this connection that the inspector brought Mounesh and his mother to the city.
 
 Kadugodi police said around 5am, a security guard of the apartment heard a loud thud and rushed to the spot, only to find the woman and her son lying motionless in a pool of blood. They had died instantly. Confirming that Chandrappa was in the flat when the incident took place, police said it was not clear if the duo had jumped from his kitchen balcony or if they were pushed. Forensic experts collected samples from the flat and the scene of the crime. The bodies were shifted to Vydehi Institute of Medical Sciences Hospital for postmortem.
 
 “We’re not sure how the incident took place. I have asked FSL experts to reconstruct the crime scene. We are awaiting the autopsy report,” Seemanth Kumar Singh, additional commissioner of police (east zone) told TOI. “Chandrappa’s behaviour is suspicious and hence we’ve taken him into custody. Preliminary probe revealed that both were being detained by him illegally.”
 
 Chandrappa reportedly told police that he brought Mounesh and his mother to help trace his sister. He said the duo jumped to death from his flat.
 
 Abdul Ahad, deputy commissioner of police (Whitefield), said police have taken up a case of unnatural death. They are waiting for Mounesh’s first wife, Sridevi, to join the probe as she was witness to Chandrappa and a few others landing up in Kolar four days ago and forcing Sundaramma and Mounesh into a car. “We will register a case based on Sridevi’s statement,” a senior police officer said.
 
 Police said they are verifying CCTV footage from the apartment complex to find out how and when the duo were brought to the flat.
 
 Police sources said Lakshmamma, inspector Chandrappa’s mother, had complained to police on February 25 that her daughter had gone missing eight days earlier. A senior police officer alleged that Chandrappa’s sister was missing for over two months but the family delayed registering the complaint.
 
 
