BHOPAL: Sudden decision by the   ( ) to conduct re-test for economics (Class 12) and maths (Class 10) board exam on Wednesday drew flak from students. Terming the move as unjust, schools and parents said children would have to unnecesarily appear again in the exam.

 Kirti Bhagwani, a student of Class XII Carmel Convent Sr Secondary School, said, “We have to suffer due to few students. Already, we are under pressure for optional examination. Suddenly such decision has left us in stress.”
 
 She said, “It is not easy to study all chapters again. We gave our best in the examination. It is big burden on us. We will have to focus on the subject for which we had worked hard earlier.”
 
 “Most of students had performed well in economics exam. Since, accounts paper was tough, we worked hard to compensate for it. We were hoping to score good marks in economics. But it will have no meaning in view of retest,” she added.
 
 Divya Tomar, another student of Class 12, said, “Conducting retest is not fair. We worked hard for exam and after performing well in it, we are asked to appear for a retest because of few students. Though question paper was leaked, the CBSE is burdening us.”
 
 Ajay Yadav, a student of class 10, said, “I had performed well in maths exam, but now I am worried what if I fail to perform well in re-test. My result will get affected. ”
 
 “For now, I don’t have any idea for what should I do. I have started my studies from today only as I don’t want to degrade my result,” he said.
 
 Parents said the board should roll back the decision. It will be unfair on children, if the board goes ahead with it.
 
 Prabodh Pandya, a member of Parent’s Association, said, “It is government’s mistake. Why should students suffer for it. CBSE and the government should have a full-proof system as it is held at national level.” He added, “The government should take strict action and ensure it doesn’t take place again as it de-motivates hard working students. ”
 
 Vinod Gangrade, father of Class 12 student, said, “Class 12 students are giving exam and issuing such notification in between has stressed my son. ”
 
 School principals have started scheduling counselling sessions for students to prepare them for retest and relieve them from sudden stress.
 
 Ashok Kumar, principal, Gyanganga School, said, “It is unfair for students. They are not at fault. However, since decision has been already taken, we are scheduling counselling sessions for students as we will have to prepare them mentally for the retest.”
 
