NEW DELHI: They number 1,797 and constitute home to lakhs of people. These unauthorised  , mostly housing low-income families, have stories of how politics and policy have given the residents a dream of a “legal home” for decades, but have not fulfilled it. 

 Tuesday’s Supreme Court directions on stopping all illegal constructions again remind that the assurance of regularisation of such colonies is far from reliable. 
 
 At the present, the cut-off date for regularisation of constructions in these colonies stands at January 1, 2015, as revised by the Union urban development ministry. However, Delhi government’s urban development department is awaiting detailed maps with demarcations of boundaries to be able to respond to the queries raised by the Centre after the change in the cut-off date. The answers to the queries depend on the information on these maps. 
 
 The state’s revenue department was tasked with carrying out the ground surveys and it started the time consuming work in 2015 with the total station method survey. The department needs to authenticate the maps from 2007 submitted to the state government by residents’ welfare associations in 2008 by comparing the information there to the one they collect in the surveys.
 
 Sources said the survey and   on ground is almost finished in around 930 of the 1,797 colonies, but the district level survey is posing challenges. The ground realities have changed much since RWAs submitted the maps in 2008 when it was stipulated that unauthorised colonies would be eligible for regularisation if they had a coverage of 50% or more in 2007. Inability of the authorities to stop fresh constructions over the years has meant that many colonies have expanded beyond the original boundaries. Also the revenue department officials point out that a mapping exercise would also require looking into the land status of that area based on revenue records. 
 
 The1,797 colonies on the list of regularisation were identified in a process started during the Congress regime in 2008 when the Centre promoted guidelines to step up regularisation. The years that followed saw the issue getting embroiled in politics and red tape and the regularisation dream remaining unfulfilled. 
 
 The Aam Aadmi Party came to power in 2015 promising regularisation of colonies, and has since taken up the issue from time to time, expediting demarcation of boundaries and getting municipal corporations to make layout plans. 
 
 Eventually one saw the government only highlighting development works in these colonies because regularisation did not appear to be round the corner.
 
 
