Last weekend, Serin Remani from Kochi eagerly hopped on to the cab to attend an event at 5.30 pm in Aluva. However, her excitement was short-lived as the heavy   from Angamaly to Aluva brought life to a standstill, forcing her to miss the event. Traffic congestions such as these have become an inescapable, routine affair in Kochi, and experts are blaming the surge in the number of the vehicles. But is that the only reason for the choked roads and what are the solutions?

 
 
 
 In the past year, more than one lakh vehicles have been registered in Ernakulam district with 30,000 in Kochi RTO alone, says Regi P Varghese, RTO officer. In addition, 20% of cars in Kochi are from other states.
 
 While the number of vehicles is increasing, the size of the roads remains the same. “No major policy decision has been taken by the government to phase out vehicles that are older than 15 years, despite frequent talks about it,” he says, adding that the combination of all these factors compound the existing traffic congestion.
 
 Senior scientist Shaheem S, of National Transportation Planning and Research Centre, says that parking, pedestrian and road size are the most important parameters when it comes to regulating traffic.
 
 The standard width of a two-lane road is 7 to 7.5 m and a four-lane road is 14 m. “This means that during the peak hour, ideally a maximum of 1,500 vehicles can pass through a particular point on a two-lane road. However, there have been instances in Kochi where this limit was surpassed,” he says.
 Several two-lane roads though do not conform to the mandatory size, he says. “When that happens, people like cobblers and shopkeepers grab that little space available on the side to set up shop. This in turn makes it a hassle for pedestrians to move and they start walking alongside the roads,” Shaheem says, adding that the Shanmugham Road, MG Road and Vytilla are the most traffic-prone sites in Kochi.
 
  The case though is not different in other urban areas of Kerala either, he says. “Both Thiruvananthapuram and Kozhikode are equally struck by  , and the issues faced by people residing in these places are similar to those in Kochi,” he says.
 
 
 
 
 The travelling woes are worsened, thanks to dharnas and VIP visits, says bank employee Usha Nair from Thiruvananthapuram. “Whenever there is a march in the city in the morning, the traffic is diverted and for those who have to reach office by 9.30 am, it’s a bane,” she says. “Also, when a VIP is travelling on a particular route, the entire road is cordoned off for their entourage and it just delays our commute further. 
 
 These days, my friends tell me even Chackai bypass is clogged because of a mall being opened.”
 Meanwhile, for Remya, who works in a private firm in Kochi, her commute from Elamkulam to Thammanam, which are less than 4km apart, takes close to an hour due to the traffic congestion in the morning. “I was travelling by a bus in the morning and we were stuck on a bridge for close to 20 minutes,” she says, adding that she dreads taking the route through Kadavanthra and Janatha Junction when she’s in a hurry.
 
 
 
 
 With the increase in cars, parking too has become a big issue especially in lanes such as MG Road in Kochi. “A pay and park system enabled in other countries in such busy streets would definitely do us good,” suggest Regi. Also, if the odd-even rule implemented in Delhi is enforced in Kerala, it would help reduce the traffic congestion to a great extent, he says. “This will also have an impact on the pollution levels, thereby improving the quality of the environment.”
 
  Meanwhile, transportation expert Dijo Kappen urges people to use public transport more. “A bus that accommodates at least 50 people is any day more appropriate than a car used to commute one or two persons,” he says.
 
 Dijo also adds that the onus is equally on the government to promote the use of public transport. “If the public transport is comfortable, it’s a no-brainer that people would only opt for it,” he says.
 
 As a solution for the prevailing traffic congestion, Dijo suggests charging an entry for four wheelers in traffic-prone zones. “Having to pay for entry will reduce the number of vehicles,” he says. While many with private vehicles wouldn’t immediately take up the public transportation, Remya suggests carpooling as an alternative.
 
 As for improving the roads, Shaheem says that flyovers and ramp roads could help. “The cloverleaf interchange, which is spotted in foreign countries, is a two-level, four-way interchange that is successfully used in other countries to eliminate traffic. However, the lack of space in our State makes it difficult to implement here,” he says.
 
 The most important solution, Dijo calls for, is a change in the mindset of commuters. “Getting new vehicles have become the norm of the day for Malayalis and all it does is feed their egos. The entire problem lies in the fact that we get cars that we want and not what we need,” he says. “It is high time people considered the future generation before putting the pedal to the metal.”
 
 
