NEW DELHI: The government on Saturday dismissed opposition allegations that it is trying to "privatise" India's heritage, saying that the contract signed with Dalmia Bharat Group giving it access to the   does not entail any profit-making activity.

 
 Earlier this week, Dalmia Group had signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the ministry of tourism to adopt the iconic Mughal-era monument for the next five years at a cost of Rs 25 crore. As per the agreement, the corporate giant would build basic infrastructure around the monument and maintain it.
 
 "No profit activity will take place," Union minister Mahesh Sharma clarified today. 
 
 The minister said that Dalmia Group has been assigned the task of adding value to the services being provided to tourists visiting the 17th-century monument. 
 
  
  
 
 "(The) President announced a scheme on World Tourism Day 2017 that those interested in value addition to any services of monuments can come forward. Some services of Red Fort have been given to the Dalmia Group," Sharma was quoted as saying by news agency ANI.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Earlier today, the Congress party questioned the government's move to "lease out" the Mughal-era monument to a private entity.
 
 In a question on Twitter, the Congress asked, "After handing over the Red Fort to the Dalmia group, which is the next distinguished location that the BJP government will lease out to a private entity?" 
 
  
  
 "They are handing over the iconic monument to a private business. What is your commitment to the idea of India, to the history of India? We know you have no commitment, but we still want to ask you," Congress spokesperson Pawan Khera told reporters.
 
 "Do you have dearth of funds. Why funds for the ASI (Archaeological Survey of India) lapse, why do they lapse. See the CAG (Comptroller and Auditor General) reports. If they have paucity of funds, then why do they lapse?" he asked.
 
 Calling the decision a "sad and dark day in (India's) history", TMC chief Mamata Banerjee asked why the government itself cannot take care of the monument.
 
 "Why can’t the Government even take care of our historic Lal Qila? Red Fort is a symbol of our nation. It is where India’s flag is hoisted on Independence Day. Why should it be leased out ? Sad and dark day in our history," Banerjee tweeted.
 
  
  
 
 TMC MP Derek O'Brien also took to Twitter to question the move. "Wah! So here is acche din. Red Fort being 'sold '? Now other national treasures ready to be auctioned to highest bidder. As Chairman Parliament Cmtee of Transport Tourism & Culture, can say matter was still being "discussed". Pledge to stop this," he wrote.
 
  
  
 CPM reminded the Government that the Parliamentary Committee that went into the issue of handing over heritage sites to private entities had "decided against this unanimously". 
 
  The Left party in a statement said the government "virtually handed over the Red Fort to the Dalmia group". It urged the Government to rescind its decision.
 
 Responding to opposition remarks, minister of state for tourism KJ Alphons said under the scheme started last year, the ministry is looking at public participation to develop heritage monuments.
 
 "The companies involved in these projects will only spend and not make money. They will create amenities such as toilets, provide drinking water for the tourists so that their footfalls increase. They might put up signs outside to say that they have developed the amenities. If they are spending money, there is nothing wrong in taking credit for it," he said.
 
 "I want to ask the Congress what they did for the past 70 years. All the monuments and facilities around them are in terrible shape. In some places, there were no facilities at all," he said.
 
 
 
 
 The Dalmia Bharat Limited has signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with ministry of tourism for the adoption of Red Fort monument under the 'Adopt a Heritage' project. 
 
 The scheme enables Dalmia Bharat to construct, landscape, illuminate and maintain activities related to provision and development of tourist amenities. This includes various basic and advanced amenities such as public conveniences, clean drinking water, cleanliness of the monument, accessibility for all, signage, cloakroom facilities, illumination and night viewing, surveillance system, tourist facilitation cum interpretation centre among others.
 
 Keeping in mind the easy accessibility to the differently-abled visitors, there will be ramps and toilet facilities for the differently-abled. Facilities like wheelchairs, battery-operated vehicles, braille signages are some of the key additions, which will make the Red Fort a barrier-free monument.
 
 The company said that advanced surveillance system like pan-tilt-zoom CCTV cameras will be installed. Dalmia Bharat will also assist in controlling the advanced tourist flow management system linked with carrying capacity of the monuments, including light and sound shows with regular cultural shows and facilitation of night visits to the monuments.
 
 
 
 
  
