BATHINDA: Even as the cotton sowing commenced officially from April 1 in Punjab, the state agriculture department is yet to release the list of varieties recommended by the Punjab Agricultural University (PAU), Ludhiana. PAU-recommended varieties of hybrid BT cotton seed are also approved by the genetic engineering appraisal committee ( ).

 Neighbouring Haryana had announced the recommended varieties of BT cotton seeds in mid-March and Rajasthan also had released the list earlier this week. Cotton is the second biggest kharif (summer sown) crop in Punjab after paddy. It is grown in southern   region consisting of Mansa, Barnala,  , Muktsar, Faridkot and Fazilka districts and in some parts of   and Moga.
 
 Sources in the department attributed the delay to the official red-tape. The file containing list of recommended varieties of BT cotton seeds was cleared by the additional chief secretary (agriculture) Wednesday evening, and the announcement would be made in a couple of days, they claimed. Sources said PAU had recommended 60 varieties of BT cotton seeds, as against 45 strains in the previous season.
 
 Sources said in absence of any communication from the Punjab agriculture department, some farmers had brought seeds from Haryana and even non-recommended varieties from Gujarat for sowing, which could be prone to disease and pest attack.
 
 When contacted, Punjab director of agriculture   said earlier PAU had recommended 50 seed varieties but on their recommendation the number was increased to 60. “The list, which was delayed due to unavoidable reasons, will be announced in a day or so. We are fully prepared for the  ,” said.
 
 “Some farmers might have brought seeds from Haryana as both states normally use same varieties. However, the trend of bringing seeds from Gujarat has decreased in the past few years,” he claimed.
 
 
 
 The state agriculture department has fixed the target for cotton sowing at 4 lakh hectares this season. In 2017, the cotton acreage in Punjab was 3.80 lakh hectares. However, farmers and traders said the area under the fibre crop could dip to nearly 3.5 lakh hectares on account of lower returns in the 2017-18 crop year due to weak market. Rates of raw cotton remained below Rs 5,000 per quintal while in the 2016-17 crop year, it was sold as high as Rs 5,600 per quintal. Gurnaib Singh, a cotton grower from Sangat village of Bathinda, said, “In the previous season, the yield of cotton came down and even the rate of the crop had dipped below Rs 5,000 per quintal. We were expecting the rates to remain in the range of Rs 5,600-5,700 per quintal. Due to this area under cotton could drop in the coming season.”
 
 
 
 
 Sources said the agriculture department had made arrangements to provide 26 lakh packets of seeds (each weighing 450g) to the farmers through the input dealers. Taking the target area into account, 20 lakh cotton seed packets are needed in Punjab this season. However, officials are of the view that if sown crop got damaged in some areas due to any reason, including pest attack, additional packets of seeds might come in handy.
 
 
