VADODARA: Unlike   and Ahmedabad, the city did not witness any violence but there were frustrating traffic snarls in and around Kothi and railway station areas as Dalit community members stayed put at these spots for hours.

 The protestors also dumped garbage at the Kothi crossroads as a mark of protest. This led to traffic chaos as the city police had to close all roads leading to the area. While most shops in Kothi and Raopura area were closed, the remaining too downed shutters fearing vandalism.
 
 Protests were also held opposite the railway station and on the railway tracks near platform number seven of the railway station. Mobs stopped two goods trains passing through the area but allowed them to go after intervention by the railway police. Railway authorities said that the mob dispersed within 30 minutes and there was no disruption in rail traffic movement.
 
 Police said they had planned in in advance to tackle the protestors. “We gave diversion to the traffic near Kothi Crossroads and then near railway station where the protestors had gathered in big numbers. We didn’t use any force as it would have only given an opportunity to the agitators to accuse the police of excesses and create ruckus,” said police commissioner Manoj Sashidhar. Many citizens posted the traffic woes caused due to the agitation on the social media.
 
 Elsewhere, the bandh was partially successful in central   with some villages and towns in the Dahod district remaining closed. Protestors burnt a tyre in the bus stand area in Santrampur town of Mahisagar district. The strike call evoked lukewarm response in Panchmahal, Chhota Udepur and Anand districts.
 
 However, widespread violence erupted in Saurashtra and Ahmedabad city Dalit community members came out on the roads in huge numbers to enforce the bandh.
 
 At least six state transport buses were vandalized in Saurashtra while one was set ablaze in Dhrangadhra town of Surendranagar district. In Rajkot, all the main markets were forcefully shut down by mobs since the morning. Three city buses were vandalized in Rajkot while a mob also targeted a police van near Hospital Chowk.
 
 In Ahmedabad, at least 40 incidents of violence were reported with police registering five FIRs till evening. In Sarangpur, the epicenter of Dalit protest in Ahmedabad, mobs pelted stones injuring cops forcing police to lob tear-gas shells and lathi-charge to disperse angry mobs. Protesters bit at least four cops while they attempted detention. 
 
 The entry gate of Sabarmati Ashram too was locked down for half an hour for the first time in its history as the Dalit members of the Ashram supported the bandh. "The ashram was closed from 10.30 am to 11 am, first time in its history," said Dhimant Badhiya, son of a Gandhian. 
 
 The state government has asked the home department to prepare a detailed report on the protest and violence. Chief minister Vijay Rupani said that Congress was trying to use the SC’s order for political gains. “We have already filed a review petition and hence the bandh call was unwarranted. We urge the community leaders not to get carried away by political motivations and maintain peace,” he said.
 
 
