KORAPUT: Disillusioned with the "excessive interference" of   in their day-to-day life, villagers of   under Machkund police limits have vowed not to support the rebels any more. 

 Around 60 villagers of Kumbharput, about 60km from here, reached the headquarters town of Koraput and met the district superintendent of police   on Thursday in this regard and expressed their willingness to cooperate with the administration in all development activities. 
 
 "We had supported the Maoists on a few occasions earlier out of a sense of fear and had served them food as well. We had also provided shelter to them, but gradually they started interfering in our family matters. We have now realized that Maoists are detrimental to development in the area," said a middle-aged villager, requesting anonymity. 
 
 He added, "People don't join the Maoist movement willingly. They do so under pressure. However, this time we are determined and we have decided not to cooperate with the Maoists in the coming days. We will cooperate with the administration in development works at our village." 
 
 The villagers said last month Maoist leaders like Aruna, Andru, Suresh and   of   of the banned outfit had visited the village. 
 
 The rebels frequently visit the village and ask locals to put up Red posters and banners at various places. However, on December 8 last, the Maoists reached the village, had food and proceeded to a nearby coffee plantation. There they assaulted a supervisor and threatened the owner of dire consequences for allegedly exploiting the labourers. Following the incident, police had arrested four villagers on charges of being Maoist sympathizers and had forwarded them to court. 
 
 "Henceforth, the villagers will not cooperate with the Maoists," said Ajay Pangi, a villager.
 
 Sources said any villager who tries to question the Maoists' conduct or raise his voice is silenced forever. On some occasions, innocent people are killed by rebels in a cruel manner, which includes stabbing and slitting of the victim's nerves and throat in front of others to instil a sense of fear in them. 
 
 Meanwhile, upbeat over the development, which is a first-of-its-kind in the district, police are hopeful of more and more villagers turning against the Maoists in the coming days.
 
 "There is a great difference between the Maoists' idealism and reality. People have started realizing that the Maoist movement is no   (people's movement)," the SP said. He added, "It's a positive development and we are hopeful that with the cooperation of the masses, things will soon change for the better." 
 
 Asked about the possible threat that the villagers will face from the Maoists for revolting against them, the SP said, "When an entire village revolts, the Maoists don't dare to target any single person. However, we will remain vigilant and the developments will be closely monitored." 
 
 
