AHMEDABAD: A team of researchers from the Gujarat   (GEER) that surveyed the   sighted not only a   but also two black kites that were knocked down on the   on the afternoon of June 1, 2017.

 The same day, researchers photographed a kite feeding on rats on the runway. They also saw a Rufous-tailed hare running from the operations area towards the runway.
 
 On another visit, the team found an injured kite in the operations area, near the forest station. These were some observations in the report submitted to the state government.
 
 The GEER team also reported the presence of bitter apple plants in the operations area. "In 2011 there was a mass hatching of hairy caterpillars in the operations area, as this plant is a food source for them," stated the report. It was suggested that bitter apple plants be removed to avoid another hairy caterpillar mass hatching.
 
 When the team visited the airport in August 2017, researchers again found bitter apple plants in the operations area. The August report also stated that bitter apple plants should be removed as they attract caterpillars which consequently attract birds.
 
 The report also stated said if artificial grass was not feasible, using a single grass species should be explored. The GEER team had found mixed grasses, herbs, and climbers. This diverse assemblage of plants makes good habitat for small animals, insects, rodents and reptiles among which are food for various birds. That there only be a single, manageable species of grass within the airport. "A single species of grass in the operations area won’t be an efficient breeding ground for insects and small animals and fewer birds will be attracted to the airport."
 
 The report also suggested control over the height of grass as tall grass attracts small animals. The team suggested that drones with cameras be used to scare birds away from the operations area. 
 
 They also suggested that grass be cut at night when kites are not active. Cutting grass in the day attracts kites, which hover around the cutting machine and could cause a problems to aircraft that are taking off or landing.
 
 The GEER team also found winged termites in the monsoon.
 
 
