Nagpur: For win-win solutions to minimize wild animal deaths along roads, irrigation canals and railway lines, the Wildlife Conservation Trust (WCT), a NGO working for tiger conservation in the country, has launched a unique citizens science initiative to collect data on roads kills.  This citizen science project www.Roadkills.in endeavours to engage with citizens concerned across the country. “We hope that the data collected will be useful to researchers and infrastructure planners across the country to help in reducing wildlife mortality, install wildlife crossing structures at the identified locations and also improve passenger safety whenever a road or railway line is planned or upgraded,” says Anish Andheria, president of WCT. “The data collected using this android app by the citizens will form a huge database which will help identify right locations for the mitigation measures thus minimizing road kills. The road kills information collected by citizens will be available for viewing on maps by anyone in the website. Any person including students, wildlife researchers, infrastructure agencies, wanting more detailed access to data for analysis can write to roadkills.india@gmail.com and the data will be shared free of cost under a creative commons licence,” says WCT wildlife biologist Milind Pariwakam. Researchers and infrastructure planners wanting access to data can also write to WCT stating their purpose and the data will be made available under a creative commons license. “Though large charismatic mammal deaths such as tigers and elephants dying are recorded but thousands of rare, endangered species of birds, amphibians, small mammals and reptile mortalities go unrecorded,” Andheria says. He adds roads and railway lines have claimed at least 16 tigers across India over the last few years. Over 150 wild elephants have died while crossing railway tracks across the country in the last 8-10 years. There is scant data available about other equally rare endangered and threatened species of amphibians, birds (owls, nightjars, horned larks) and reptiles (king cobra, python) which die in thousands. Besides, mortalities of other endangered species of mammals such as leopard, sloth bears, wild dogs, wolves, jackals, hyena, Indian fox, honey badgers, otters, langur monkeys as well as herbivores such as Indian gaur, spotted deer, barking deer, nilgai and sambar go unrecorded. Andheria says the negative impacts of such linear infrastructure can be minimized by providing mitigation measures catering to multiple species. But these mitigation measures will only be effective if they are placed at locations frequently used by wild animals. Long-term data on road kills from different habitat types can help scientists to identify the sites for planning effective mitigation measures.