Chennai: Tamil Nadu has met only 44% of its sales tax target set for the financial year 2017-18 in the first 8 months. Data with Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) shows that there has been a shortfall in revenue collection from sale of liquor as both sales tax and excise collections are lower this year, compared to last year, when 60% of the target was met in the first 8 months.

 Though GST regime has come into play, both liquor and petroleum products have not come under its purview and states continue to slap sales tax on them. But, there is no shortfall in revenue on the sale of petroleum products in Tamil Nadu, while there is a 7% shortfall in revenue collection from sale of liquor, sources said. The government has not been able to meet the excise collection target too which is at 55% in the first eight months, compared to 61% last year for the same period. On the positive side, the state has been able to do better in stamp duty collection compared to last year. 
 
 The slide in sales tax collection from liquor started from August last year. While in July, the total sales tax collection was Rs 5,480.35 crore, the next month it fell to Rs 3,115.56 crore, indicating a fall of 43%. Since then the sales tax collection has not gone beyond the Rs 3,100 croremark. 
 
 “After the Supreme Court order closing liquor shops on highways, we had to close several thousands of shops across the state. Despite the apex court revising its order allowing shops on highways, not all shops could be reopened due to massive protests from the public,” said a senior Tasmac official. 
 
 On the other side, the state’s excise revenue has also taken a hit due to lower liquor sales. “Revenue from excise duties stood at Rs 3,802.74 crore and it translated to 55.09% of the year’s target. But during the same period last year, we had achieved 61.71% of the target,” said the Tasmac official. 
 
 Experts blame the nature of accounting for not revealing the true picture of Tamil Nadu’s finances. “The government is following cash accounting basis and even the revised accounts, presented along with each budget, show a figure which is in complete variance with the final accounts for a financial year,” said financial analyst and DMK MLA, PTR Palanivel Thiagarajan. 
 
 He wanted the government to shift to accrual basis of accounting. And also increase its expenditure in the capital account for real development. 
 
 Meanwhile, the state has collected Rs 5,928.33 crore in stamp duties in the first 8 months, which is 72.13% of this year’s target. It had achieved only 54.03% of the target for the same period last year. 
 
 
