Say the three words —  , darling! — and it’s enough to trigger off a trail of laughter and giggles. After all, it’s been a premise for many-a-joke, be it in a private gathering or on the stage. However, when it comes to ground zero, which is the bedroom, it is definitely not a laughing matter. Not just for the person hearing those words, but also the one saying it. For the latter, it’s often a reaction of fatigue after a long day and most often give in to the desires of their partner to prevent rocking the relationship. It’s a Catch-22 situation — if you give in to   out of guilt and fear can have negative effects on the relationship, and giving in to   too often, can also result in a cold, lifeless relationship. The key is in striking a a balance between the two for which you need to keep the following things in mind....

 
 Hormones, newborn baby, dealing with moody teenagers, financial issues or hectic work schedule, there are many reasons, life-draining ones- that keep people away from from sex. The general perception is that men are always ready for sex, while women are always too tired, however the reverse can be true too. There are days when the man may not be in a mood, therefore the couple need to be understanding to each other and deal with these mood swings. Says relationship expert Rita Bisht, “It is stressful, sometimes, to want sexual intimacy from your partner when you are dealing with small kids or teenagers with issues. At such times, the couple should take out some ‘me time’ with each other and leave these issues outside the bedroom. You should keep the channels of communication open and talk, listen and connect with each other. Just kissing, hugging and cuddling on some nights also helps.”
 
 
 It’s alright to choose sleep over sex if you feel too tired, but you have to also keep a check on the number of times you tend to do that. If a partner continues to avoid sex more often than they should, there might be serious implications later, warns Bisht. “Having a normal sex life adds to your happiness quotient in the relationship, but avoiding sex frequently leads to diminishing happiness for both individuals. No one should be forced into sex, but you can attune yourself to enjoy the moment. Increased intimacy between a couple gives a boost to their relationship and enhances the closeness between them,” she adds.
 
 
 For most couple with children, the only time they can grab some time with each other is when they have put their children to bed. So, even if you have barely slept, you are left with no choice but to get ready for the act as you have always read that sex is important to keep the relationship going. One such couple, Sumeet and Sharda Minocha found themselves in this situation often. Sharda shares, “Sex experts have always maintained that even if you are tired the worst part is to say ‘no’ to your spouse. However, apart from the fact that I would end up being more tired after the whole thing, I began to resent it afterwards!” Adds Sumeet, “It was not helping our relationship at all. Besides, I didn’t want to manipulate her just to have sex. So, we worked on a solution that would help us catch up on our sleep as well, which is equally important to stay healthy both physically and mentally.”
 
 
 If the sentence, ‘Not tonight, darling!’ is heard often in your bedroom, then it also means that it’s time to work on your sex lives and make things better. “There are ways to improve your sex drive. Like manage your time better, reduce stress levels, try new ways to attract your partner, ensure kids retire to bed early or set up a romantic date night just like the old times. Also, make the effort to find out why your partner says ‘no’ most of the times and come up with a solution together to resolve the issue. Get your partner involved much before the act by communicating with them and doing things for them that they would enjoy. Perfumes, chocolates, flowers, use your imagination to give your partner a wonderful experience,” says psychiatrist Dr Pankaj Sutar.
 
 
 Don’t we sometimes hit the gym in the evening despite being tired? Or go to the mall for some shopping and then feel good about the retail therapy? Sometimes you should treat sex the same way, says Bisht. “There are some things that we do with dedication even if they tire us as it ultimately make you feel good about yourself. Sex is just the same — the act releases feel—good chemicals like serotonin and oxytocin that keep you happy. It’s a proven fact that the more sex you have, the more you want, however, never ‘force’ yourself into having sex. Don’t let anyone pressurise you to have sex when you’re not in a mood for it!” she ends.
 
 
 
