CHENNAI: The first bench of Madras high court has directed the registry of its Madurai bench not to entertain any plea moved by the directors of   which is involved in a 1,130 crore investment scam. It has also ordered transfer of all existing cases connected with the scam to the principal bench in Chennai. 

 The bench of Chief Justice Indira Banerjee and Justice Abdul Quddhose passed the order in view of the allegations that directors of the company had been trying to get away from the criminal cases registered against them by approaching the Madurai bench, while the first bench had already appointed a committee to identify and settle dues to more than 12 lakh depositors.
 
 This apart, the committee pointed out that when they approached   that manages the Demat account of the firm with a request to sell the shares owned by the company and transfer the proceeds to the court-appointed committee, they refused to oblige. Instead, they are demanding Pearmanent Account Number (PAN )in the name of the committee to transfer the proceeds.
 
 Counsel for the committee further informed the high court that the directors were not cooperating with the probe and wanted the court to order their appearance to know the seriousness of the case.
 
 Recording the submissions, the bench said: "  is directed to sell the shares in the Demat account of the company and deposit the proceeds thereon in the joint account of the committee. Since the sale is on account of the company which has a PAN card, there can be no question of insistence of any separate PAN in the name of the committee or PAN card of any of the committee members."
 
 The company, which had commenced its operation in 2006, collected more than 1,130 crore as deposits through collective investment schemes (CIS) without proper approvals from the   (Sebi) till 2015. As the company failed to repay the depositors as promised, Sebi barred its directors from capital market for four years in 2016 and from selling any assets of the company. 
 
 In October last, the court appointed a committee headed by a retired chief justice of Jammu and Kashmir high court, Justice N  , to identify and settle dues to the tune of Rs 1,130 crore to over 12 lakh depositors of the Madurai-based real estate company.
 
 
