CHANDIGARH: Keeping in view the municipal corporation’s financial crisis, the Federation of Sector Welfare Associations of Chandigarh ( ) has the MC a few ways of revenue generation.

 In a nine-point suggestion list sent to the MC, Foswac general secretary J S Gogia had told MC how to generate revenue from existing sources. Foswac wants the civic body to maintain and update property register by identifying the source, making recoveries, and sort out ownership disputes in villages. Several shops are lying vacant and the huge investment on these was without proper justification. “A task force should be engaged for survey. It will yield a lot of revenue,” Foswac says.
 
 Another issue which was raised by the association is about more than 30,000 illegal electricity connections that are running without meter. The electricity department removed only 200 of these connections last year. This point was also raised before the   (JERC). Electricity worth several crore rupees is being stolen in connivance with junior workmen. Foswac has advised the MC to constitute a task force that will take police assistance to remove these connections amd recover the pending bills from the public-sector units, institutions, and influential people.
 
 “The collection of property tax should be rationalised and proper record maintained. Recent recovery campaigns have helped but a lot of work still remains, the authorities should streamline the system of tax collection to boost revenue,” said the federation. “Break the nexus between the junior officials and the contractors who execute road, health and horticulture projects.”
 
 Referring to the maintenance of parks, Foswac stated that the MC was spending about Rs 6 for each square metre, while RWAs were getting the same work done for Rs 2 per sq m. “The civic authorities should work out how the RWA were doing it and use the same formula to save money,” it said. It also suggested that tenders should be called from competent companies for garbage collection, as it is a job worth more than Rs 100 crore a year.
 
 “The removal of garbage-processing plant from   should get a priority over beautification, since its foul smell had made life miserable in southern sectors,” Foswac said.
 
 
