KOLKATA: Doctors in the nephrology department at   are elated with the medical condition of the two patients who received a kidney each from a deceased donor last month. They believe it will encourage other renal failure patients to consider the option.

 Speaking to TOI, SSKM nephrology department professor Aprita Ray Chaudhury, who heads the Regional Organ & Tissue Transplant Organization in the state, said the parameters of the two patients — a 20-year-old boy and a 40-yearold woman — who had received the kidneys from 21-yearold accident victim   after doctors declared her brain dead, were normal with no signs of distress. The operation was done a fortnight ago.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 “The transplanted kidneys are functioning well. Creatinine level is normal as is urine output. We will release them from the hospital on Thursday. Seeing them walk back should drive away misconceptions about deceased donor transplants and encourage other patients,” said Ray Chaudhury.
 
 Though there are at least 30 patients at SSKM requiring transplant, many were reluctant to go in for the transplant as they felt the survival rate with a deceased donor organ was lower than from alive donor.
 
 Doctors though point out that deceased donor organ transplant survival rate is now close to that of a live donor. While the difference was 20%- 30% earlier, the margin has
 
 now reduced to 5%-10%. While a patient undergoing a transplant from a live donor has 80% survival rate, one who receives a transplant from a deceased donor has 70%-75% chance of survival.
 
 While there have been deceased organ transplants earlier. this is the first time that brain death declaration, organ retrieval and transplants of multiple organs happened at a single hospital in the city. "The entire team is motivated by the success. We are confident it will give the deceased organ donation movement a fillip," said   director Ajay Ray.
 
 “Our loss is immeasurable. But we did not want to deprive others of a chance to life with her organs. I wish both a long and healthy life,” said Dipsikha’s father Samar Samanta.
 
