BENGALURU: Candidates seeking votes at   slum in Doddigunta, Cox Town, under the CV Raman Nagar assembly constituency in Bengaluru face the wrath of people there. For six years, around 4,000 residents of the slum have been forced to use four dilapidated toilets.

 
 The lack of toilets has been a pressing problem for 358 households in Polluramma (BBMP Ward 79) since 2012 after absence of maintenance reduced the existing facility with 12 lavatories to a shambles. The residents are determined to make the toilet a poll issue. They will vote for anyone who fixes this messy problem. They claim toilet renovation was their primary demand in the 2015 polls too.
 
 
 
 
 T his time, we’ll vote for the person who will assure us he’ll fix the toilet,” said N Anand, another resident. BBMP authorities in the ward failed to comment, stating that the matter is withsenior officials.
 
 So, major party candidates sitting MLA S Raghu (BJP), R   ( ), P Ramesh (JD-S) and Mohan Dasari (AAP)now know the key to get these votes—fix the toilets.
 
 “The commodes broke, the doors went missing, drainage flooded into the toilet and they became unusable. The grill gate is rusted and jammed and the toilet is inaccessible,” lamented Lilly alias Lalitha, a resident.
 
 The women section on the rightsidehas an old piece of cloth which serves as a door. “The toilet is open in the morning for a few hours and again in the evening. There is a mad rush to use the lavatory which often ends in fights,” says Shantamma, a resident.
 
 “The MLA and the corporator (BJP)haven’tcomethis time to ask for votes but sent their cronies.Peoplehere are very angry,” said A Emmanual aliasTittu, another resident. No major party candidate has come calling for campaigning.
 
 Some residents, who attempt to answer nature’s call in neighbouring NC Colony, often face the wrath of residentsthere asthereis a strict unwritten code that Pollurammans must not use their facility. Polluramma slum in   is a 48-yearold settlement. It was under the Bharathi Nagar contingency before coming under CV Raman Nagar in 2008.
 
 
