Vadodara: A group of 15 members of the ‘sankalan samiti’ including senate members on Tuesday demanded an independent inquiry into the rustication row that has hit the Institute of Leadership and Governance (ILG) at M S University.  The ‘sankalan samiti’ which has members of the BJP, the RSS, the ABVP and the teachers body – the Maharaja Sayajirao Vishyavidyalay Shaikshik Sangh (MSVSS) during its meeting with MSU vice-chancellor professor Parimal Vyas threatened to launch an agitation if the entire episode at ILG is not thoroughly probed by an independent committee.  Stating that it will not tolerate any individual, group of individuals or organization indulging in anti-national activities, the members demanded that the university should provide details on how admissions are granted at ILG and who are the teaching and non-teaching staff members responsible for scrutiny of admission forms in these courses and what are their terms of reference.  “For us, it is not a political issue. It is a matter related to national security,” said Pragnesh Shah, member of the samiti.  Interestingly, the student – Romel Sutariya – who had claimed that he was rusticated by the institute after he along with another student had met JNU leader Kanhaiya Kumar during a recent study tour on Monday morning launched his protest at ‘sankalp bhoomi’ in Kamatibaug after which he announced that he will embark on a ‘Walk for Free Education’ to Ahmedabad on Wednesday.  The members of the samiti also condemned the recent decision taken by the university’s syndicate body to amend the existing statutes of the university handbook which they alleged was being done to “satiate some selfish motives”. Alleging that the university officials were taking biased decisions, the samiti also questioned the decision of changing director of Research and Consultancy Cell and appointment of professor D S Sharma as officiating director of Startup and Entrepreneurship Cell in which Dr Sunil Kahar was already serving as co-ordinator since the last two years.  Both Kanchan and Kahar had contested on the panel of the sankalan samiti during the recent syndicate elections. The samiti members alleged that Kanchan was replaced by another director of the cell as part of political manoeuvrings by the ruling group against whom he had contested.  The samiti members said that even as a committee formed to prepare the report for MSU Startup and Entrepreneurship Cell had recommended that no head of department (HoD) should be appointed as director of such cell, the syndicate members overlooked the recommendation and instead appointed Sharma, HoD of mechanical engineering department to the post with the single motive to demotivate Kahar. 