MYSURU: In what appears to be the   in the state,   have introduced   for aggrieved parties, which is aimed at putting an end to disagreements between cops and citizens over delays in attending to complainants.

 Considered a pathbreaking initiative undertaken by Karnataka police to improve relations with the public since tokens would serve as acknowledgement for a visit to a station to lodge a complaint. 
 
 Under the existing system, there is no means available to the public to record their entry when they visit a police station in Mysuru. However, with the new system, all details of their complaint are recorded online along with the name of the police station they visited, and the time. A photograph of the complainant is taken, and printed on the token that is handed to the visitor.
 
 Presently, visits by complainants to stations are recorded in a diary that is maintained exclusively by cops. There were allegations of delays in attending to cases, and of time of visit being changed in the diary to make it seem there were none. In the absence of a mechanism to verify at what time complainants visited the station, there was no accountability.
 
 Presently, persons visiting stations are entered in a diary by police personnel and its control was entirely with the men in khaki of respective police stations. There were delays in attending to complainants and time of visit was manipulated as there was no system in place to back whether they visited on specified time.
 
 Mysuru police commissioner A Subramanyeshwar Rao told TOI that it is an initiative taken to improve policing in the city. "We have devised the system to keep track of people approaching the police station seeking assistance and nowhere in Karnataka such a system in place. The system was launched on Makara Sankranthi (Monday) at four police stations - one in each police sub-division, and we will add four more stations next month," he added.
 
 Elaborating on how the token system would work, Rao said, "We have installed a token dispenser at the four stations, along with a helpdesk that will be manned by a cop. Complainants will first have to take a token from the dispenser, and then await their turn in the waiting lounge. At the help desk, they will have to leave personal details such as name, address, contact number and purpose of visit.
 
 There have been reports of public being made to wait for long periods at the station, while cops deny these allegations. The new token system is expected to put an end to such incidents.
 
 "Since the complaints can now be tracked online, we can pull up officers for delays. Once a token is generated, it is the responsibility of the cop at the helpdesk to ensure the complainant is attended to within 15 minutes. This will keep cops on toes," said Rao.
 
 The new initiative by Mysuru police comes on the back of a series of other public-friendly ones they have taken, including making the atmosphere at stations congenial for citizens to air their grievances. Mysuru police also recently decreed that policemen below the rank of sub-inspectors would be granted leave for their kids' birthdays and wedding anniversaries.
 
