Trichy: Amma two-wheeler scheme has received a good response among the working class in Trichy with 8,595 women applying for the scheme till February 5. Since the last date has been extended by five more days, the number of applications is expected to increase.

 Trichy district was allotted a total of 3,922 two-wheelers by the state government. The allocation was based on the population of women in the district as per 2011 census. Since then the rollout of the scheme a few weeks back, all the four zonal offices of the Trichy Corporation and the respective places in other local bodies, saw long queues of women applying for the scheme.
 
 5,300 women from the villages panchayats under 14 panchayat unions, 2,291 women from the 65 wards of Trichy corporation, 592 women from 16 town panchayat areas and 412 women from three municipalities have submitted their applications till Monday (Feb 5) which was earlier set as the last date. Now, the government has extended the deadline to February 10, giving chance to those who missed the opportunity. For the past one week, women have been making a beeline to the three RTOs in Trichy city to apply for learner’s licence.
 
 Tamil Nadu Women Development Corporation has begun the field verification to finalise the list based on merit. The rejection would mainly happen on the grounds of age, non-availability of learner’s/ driving licence and exceeding the income ceiling.
 
 The scheme offers working women, entrepreneurs, staff of shops, private firms, government-aided institutions in the age group of 25 to 40 years a with gear or without gear motorcycle, with power not more than 125 cc at a subsidised cost. Their annual income should be below Rs 2.5 lakhs. The government would provide the applicant with Rs 25,000 or 50 % of the vehicle cost, depending on whichever is lower. 
 
 The district level selection committee will short-list candidates after February 15, following which the final list will be ready on February 20. The distribution of the two-wheelers will commence on February 24.
 
 
