 
  This was not the   that most among the gathering had known.
  
  The former sports minister who helped build the Nehru Stadium at   in a record time of just six months was wheeled into the hall from a side entrance. A paralytic stroke has confined him to a motorised wheelchair. He has lost his voice too. But he has left nobody in doubt that his memory is as good as anyone’s.
  
  Monte Cruz was delighted to have been welcomed by Alberto Colaco, the joint organising secretary for Nehru Cup in 1989, for which the Nehru Stadium was specifically built. He then hugged former Goa   Association president  , and broke into a smile when RB Jirage, the government’s handpicked man to help the sports minister during construction of the stadium, was called to the dais.
  
  When other sportspersons, officials and administrators walked up to him, nobody needed any introduction.
  
  Monte Cruz, 73, was the man of the moment, and he clearly enjoyed the attention during his felicitation by the Association for the Wellbeing of Elder Sportspersons ( ) at Agassaim on Sunday. The standing ovation moved him, and the huge round of applause left him weeping tears of joy. If only he could speak, he would let everyone know how he made Goa’s dream of an international stadium come true.
  
  “Thank you, Monte Cruz. I know it’s almost 30 years since the stadium was constructed, but I am sure even 100 years later, your contribution will not be forgotten,” said AWES president Avertano Furtado while felicitating the former sports minister.
  
  Sunday, though, was not just about Monte Cruz and the Nehru Stadium, Goa’s first multipurpose stadium. It was about 150-odd champions coming together under one roof. You could find champions at every corner. There were your football heroes; the ones you have heard of like Nicholas Pereira and EN Sudhir – the earliest internationals in the group from 1973. There was Loretta D’Souza, the brave Goan hockey player who represented India in the mid-seventies. Volleyball sent its hero, too; Avelino Pereira was as good as anyone else and he even made the mighty Punjabis eat humble pie at the Nationals.
  
  Besides a galaxy of former players, the event was graced by high-profile administrators like Shivanand Salgaocar, Vijai Chowgule, R.B Jirage and Digambar Kamat, who until 2012 was Goa’s chief minister. Not to forget, he was an accomplished badminton player too.
  
  The highlight of the afternoon came midway into the function. Minguel Rebello, a former player from Curtorim, turned 90 on Sunday and he was given the honour of cutting the celebratory cake. He had difficulty walking up to the dais but still didn’t give up. Seated alongside Monte Cruz, he was basking in the attention. When the congratulatory song was played, he tried to stand up and cut the cake. Monte Cruz, somehow, stood up too. The gathering, without prompting, followed suit.
  
  This was an afternoon of great memories, made special by the likes of Monte Cruz and Minguel.
