PUNE: Yuvraj Ahire, a 28-year-old youth, met with an accident earlier last week while travelling on his two-wheeler and fractured his left leg. As the victim is afflicted with polio, his left leg was the sole support in conducting daily chores. 

 In August this year, Ahire applied for Swavlamban Health   Scheme announced by the Union government. The scheme provides affordable health insurance to people with disabilities. But the insurance company refused to accept the form stating that there was no such scheme available at that moment. The scheme which offers a cover of Rs 2 lakh for disabled people by paying only 10% premium (rest being reimbursed by the government) is on hold as the government is yet to pay its part of the amount, officials at the directorate of disability claimed.
 
 
  
 
 Medha Kulkarni, who heads the Make my Dream foundation, that works with disabled people, said, “We had filled up the application forms of 30 disabled people. But when we tried to submit them to the insurance company, they refused to accept it saying that there was no official word about it yet from the government,”   said.
 
 As per the press information bureau data, a memorandum of understanding (MoU) was signed between Trust Fund for Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities and The  , on August 21, 2015 to launch a group mediclaim policy for the empowerment of people with disabilities, known as ‘Swavlamban Health Insurance Scheme’. The objective is to provide affordable health insurance to persons with blindness, low vision, leprosy-cured, hearing impairment, locomotor disability, mental retardation and mental illness. 
 
 As per the scheme, only 10% of the premium will be collected from the insured, while 90% will be refunded by the government. “The insurance scheme was announced by the Centre and the insurance company started enrolling people. But the government did not reimburse 90% of the amount. The company waited for some time but there was no reimbursement and then they held the scheme. Hence, it is not available for people now,” Nitin Patil, commissioner of disability, said.
 
 Kulkarni said, “Ahire has already spent over Rs 15,000 for his treatment and will be bedridden for another two months. He may lose his job too. The government should restart the policy as most physically disabled people need financial support.”
 
 The managing director of New India Assurance, G Srinivasan, said, “The government has not paid for the last two months. Hence, we had to put the scheme on hold. The government is relooking at the scheme and hope they will come up with something soon.”
 
 
