GANDHINAGAR: In a significant move, the state’s first welfare commission for non-reserved castes (  castes) urged the government to extend all benefits available to persons from reserved castes (SCs, STs and OBCs) to persons from non-reserved castes — except for quotas in jobs and admissions. Such benefits include age-limit relaxation and financial assistance for studies abroad and at premier institutions.

 
 The commission submitted its report to the state government, which recommends that the government give persons from savarna castes facilities at par with those from schedule castes, schedule tribes and other backward classes. Significantly, the commission has not recommended reservations in jobs and admissions.
 
 Hansraj Gajera, chairman of the Gujarat Rajya Binanamat Varg Aayog (GRBVA) and a Patidar leader associated with various religious institutions, met deputy chief minister   and handed over the report to him. Gajera and other members of the commission also discussed various suggestions the commission has received with Nitin Patel.
 
 Gajera said, “The commission received representations from various non-reserved caste groups and on the basis of these representation and suggestions, we prepared a report with several recommendations that the government can implement for the welfare of non-reserved castes. The commission recommended that the government allow a relaxation in the age limits and number of attempts in competitive exams for non-reserved caste students, as is available to reserved category students. We also recommended that the government give benefits — like OBCs are eligible for — to institutes for setting up hostels. We also recommended that the income criteria be revised so people from non-reserved castes can also avail of government benefits.”
 
 The commission also recommended subsidized education loans for studies abroad and at premier institutes. “However, we have not recommended any kind of reservation in jobs or admissions. The government has allocated Rs 532 crore fund for the welfare of the non-reserved caste citizens. We have recommended various schemes that will have to be approved by the government,” Gajera added.
 
 In October 2017, the government had appointed Gajera and   leaders to the GRBVA and the Gujarat Binanamat Varg Shaikshanik Ane Arthik Vikas Nigam. The government had allocated Rs 500 crore last year, also these grants remained unutilized. This year too, the government allocated Rs 532 crore in grants for welfare of non-reserved castes.
 
