NEW DELHI: Twelve days after a five-year-old boy was kidnapped from his school bus, Delhi Police's crime branch rescued the child after a fierce gunbattle with kidnappers at around 1am on Tuesday. One of the criminals was shot dead while two others were injured in the shootout, sources have confirmed.

 A cop was shot at as well but had a narrow escape due to his bulletproof jacket. 
 
 The kidnappers had shot at the school van driver while fleeing with the child amidst heavy security on January 25. They had demanded a ransom of Rs 60 lakh from the family.
 
 Special commissioner R P Upadhayay confirmed that the child was safe and had been united with his parents.
 
 The operation was conducted by joint commissioner (crime) Alok Kumar.
 
 The criminal who was killed has been identified as Ravi, said a source. 
 
 He was taken to GTB hospital where he was declared dead on arrival. The others sustained injuries on his thigh and leg.
 
 On  , with the capital under unprecedented security cover for the event as well as the Asean summit and the release of controversial movie Padmaavat, two armed criminals on a bike had intercepted a school van, shot at the driver and rode away with a five-year-old boy after dragging him out of the vehicle.
 
 TOI had reported that after the daring crime on Thursday morning, the kidnappers had fled towards the Delhi-UP border. 
 
 There were around 14-15 children in the van when the kidnappers struck around 8am on Thursday. The vehicle was slowing down to pick up a child near a hospital in east Delhi. After intercepting the van, one of the armed bikers shot the driver in the leg while trying to snatch the vehicle's keys. The other stood guard at the rear of the van.
 
 The targeted child, a nursery student, was not wearing a school dress. He also did not have an ID card on him because he was to participate in a fancy dress competition at school.
 
 The criminals entered the van and called out the child's name. "The boy usually sat at the front but was seated at the rear on Thursday. The child's sister and a woman school staffer were also present in the bus," said a police officer.
 
 As other children panicked and screamed in frenzy, the criminals dragged the child out of the van, made him sit between them on the bike and fled.
 
 According to the driver, the van stopped at the spot every day for a pick-up, indicating that the criminals had done a reccee.
 
 The crime was the first of its kind in the capital and the second sensational kidnapping in January. On January 1, a south Delhi businessman's son was abducted from near   and a Rs 5-crore ransom demanded. The family had paid Rs 4 crore to get their son released in that case.
 
 
