Noida: Two days after a gym trainer, Jitendra Yadav (25), was shot at by a trainee sub-inspector at Parthala village in Noida, the investigation into the shooting has been handed over to  . The family members, meanwhile, continued with their protest at Fortis Hospital on Monday demanding suspension of all police personnel attached to Phase III police station. They also alleged that the police had floated the theory of friendship between the accused cop and victim’s brother to weaken the case.

 “The matter has been transferred to crime branch and the investigation will be headed by Preeti Bala Gupta, SP (crime),” SSP Love Kumar told TOI. 
 
 The National Human Rights Commission also issued a notice to the state government on the shooting on Monday and sought a detailed report within six weeks.
 
 Jitendra’s family members, meanwhile, alleged that the cops might have manipulated evidence to suit their narrative. In the evening, forensic experts collected evidences from the Scorpio in which the gym trainer and his friends were travelling.
 
 There were some plastic glasses, namkeen packets and water bottles inside the SUV. The victim’s family members said the allegations of drinking were not true as Jitendra was into gym training and he was non-alcoholic. Jitendra’s gym – Moksham Body Mantra – located in Parthala village chowk, is closed since the shooting.
 
 Jitendra was with his two friends—Gautam and Suneel Jat—in a Scorpio when the sub-inspector shot him after a scuffle in Parthala village. Jitendra’s brother Dharmendra had filed an FIR stating that he was at the spot when the incident took place.
 
 Eyewitnesses Gautam and Suneel said the cops had asked their names and addresses before the shooting. “We were having pizza from a roadside outlet at night. The four police personnel came in a Maruti Suzuki Breeza car. They asked our names and addresses and started abusing us. They forced us to take a back seat which resulted into heated arguments. The sub-inspector, Vijay Darshan, who was at the steering, fired at Jitendra and the bullet hit his throat, and went deep inside his body,” Gautam said.
 
 Umesh Yadav, Jitendra’s cousin, said the sub inspector had aimed at Jitendra’s head. “He tried to dodge the firing and was injured in his neck. The sub-inspector had said that he would teach ‘Yadav’ a lesson,” he alleged.
 
 Family members said Jitendra’s brother Dharmendra, who was allegedly known to the sub-inspector, Vijay Darshan, was not at the spot, when the shooting took place. While Jitendra, Suneel and Gautam were in one Scorpio, Jitendra’s brother Dharmendra, uncle Kripal Yadav and cousin Bablu were following them in another Scorpio. Bablu told TOI that Jitendra drove away his Scorpio to Shramik Kunj to drop his two friends. “Jitendra is a trainer to Gautam and Suneel and they shared good bonding. Hence he decided to drop them at their home. I, Dharmendra and Kripal Yadav came to home in our SUV. The sub-inspector shot at Jitendra and dumped Gautam and Suneel on the way,” he said.
 
 Later at night, Gautam reached Parthala village and told them that Jitendra was shot by the cop. The sub-inspector, Vijay Darshan, told senior police officers that he had visited the spot after receiving complaints of loud music being played in a car. “They were drinking and creating ruckus. They manhandled us when we tried to stop them. To frighten them, I took out a pistol which mistakenly fired,” Darshan told senior officials during interrogation.
 
 Jitendra’s wife Sonia said she is shattered over the incident. “My husband had not shared anything which could have led to this incident. I just want the Prime Minister and UP chief minister to take notice of the case and ensure that justice is delivered,” she told TOI at her home. The family, which was earlier preparing for Jitendra’s cousin’s marriage on February 7, is broken over the tragedy.
 
 SSP Love Kumar said the allegation of ‘encounter’ was not true. “In UP, out-of-turn promotion is banned. The sub-inspector admitted that the shot was fired by mistake. He also admitted the victim to hospital on time. The four cops have been suspended and the sub-inspector, accused of firing, has been arrested,” he said.
 
 The incident where encounter took place comes under Noida Phase III police station. The station in-charge, Jitendra Kumar, recently promoted as deputy superintendent of police, has been transferred to Meerut. The gym trainer’s family members alleged that the incident took place under Kumar’s directions. Kumar was also accused for his role in alleged ‘fake encounter’ of Sumit Gurjar, a native of Baghpat, in December 2017.
 
 
