Grievances expressed by citizens through government   such as   are now under a close watch.

 Top officials in the   ( ) are monitoring if the complaints received through these portals are addressed within 21 days, failing which the authorities are issuing reminders to the departments concerned to initiate necessary steps.
 
 The authorities recently issued a circular having details of complaints pending with every department and also details of the complaints pending for more than 21 days. The heads of 12 departments were sent reminders to initiate necessary steps to address the problems at the earliest, the circular stated.
 
 An official in the general administration department said, "All the departments are supposed to resolve the grievances at the earliest. A time period of 21 days has been given to work on every complaint. We are monitoring if the complaints are handled within the specific period. Barring cases pertaining to policy issues, all other grievances are expected to be addressed within three weeks," the official said.
 
 The officials also said they would be sending reminders to the heads of the department as of now and have not proposed any action against the officers for any delay. 
 
 "Our target is to resolve the citizens' complaints and that too within the stipulated time. We will be pushing the officers to act faster. Though no punitive action is proposed for the delay as yet, we can seek explanations if the complaints continue to remain unaddressed for a longer period. There is also a plan to seek weekly updates on grievances received and addressed. Dealing with complaints does not mean that a file is being pushed from one table to another. We are expecting the heads of the department to find a solution on the issues raised," a senior official in the civic body said.
 
 About 79 complaints were pending at various departments in the PMC, revealed a circular issued by the general administration department in the first week of January. These included 48 complaints filed through   portal, of which 23 complaints are pending for more than three weeks. Another 31 complaints registered on the PG-Portal were pending for compliance, the circular added. 
 
 
