NEW DELHI: He is just a little over two months old, but baby   is already   his MLA mother   to   bringing to the fore the challenges of a working woman. This legislator is setting new standards for working mothers as she walks in and out of meetings at Delhi secretariat, her office in Rohtas Nagar constituency and Delhi assembly.

 In the three-day assembly session that concluded on Wednesday, Advait was taken care of in the MLA lounge by other legislators when Singh spoke her mind in the House during discussions.
 
 Shalimar Bagh MLA and former deputy speaker Bandana Kumari and other women legislators were not the only ones seen babysitting when Singh for busy with work, even her male colleagues were at the forefront playing with Advait. Singh tended to her baby while hearing the debate from the lounge. Nursing breaks, too, were not missed as deputy speaker Rakhi Birla offered Singh her room to allow her privacy to feed Advait.
 
 Born on November 8, the baby boy has been going out with his mother to work since January 1. Asked why she takes her son to work, Singh told TOI that when she returned to work after her pregnancy break, she felt that she shouldn’t compromise on taking care of her child. Also, as there is much work to be done in her constituency, she decided to have him around all the time.
 
 “Believe me, my experience so far shows it is no problem. I am enjoying it as I can work and also have my child around me. While MLAs pitched in to take care of Advait during the assembly session, party volunteers step in during meetings,” Singh said.
 
 On whether there was need for crèches and day care centres in a place like Delhi assembly, Singh said she has not given it much thought. She added that with more younger women getting elected as MLAs, maternity benefits and crèches are issues that must be deliberated upon.
 
 “Earlier, those who were elected as MLAs were much older. But now with younger women becoming legislators, there will be more instances of working mothers with small children. I got married after becoming an MLA. No nursing mother would want to leave her child behind at home,” Singh added.
 
 
 
