MADURAI: The busy   connecting   and   is used by a large number of people. However, the major ill plaguing this stretch is its maintenance. Though the the issue has been prevailing for long and residents have repeatedly complained to various departments, it has been neglected all along.

 While residents say that they are used to the bad road condition, they however, feel for those using it for the first time, particularly at nights, as many tend to lose control of the vehicle due to poor lighting and end up falling down. It happens mainly at the turn near  , located close to the Keelmadurai railway station. 
 
 S R  , a resident of Chinnakanmoi said the issue has been taken to various level officials in the city corporation, but it has not been sorted out. “The lighting is also poor along the stretch. Commuters who use the road for the first time often fall down as they cannot see the damaged areas. Lately, many bikers end up in accidents,” he said.
 
 The bad light is also a cause of concern for other reasons like criminal activities which take place regularly. Due to bad lightening, residents fear using the road as chains-snatchers make use of every opportunity. “Whenever we report of poor lighting we only get temporary relief. Within few days after the complaint is attended, it again surfaces. Officials are yet to bring about a permanent solution,” said P Muthumani, another resident. 
 
 Residents also point out the manholes in G M   and its adjoining lanes that are protruding one feet high above the surface. They say that it creates a lot of inconvenience as the trucks supplying drinking water cannot enter the streets. Even autorickshaws and other vehicles like ambulances cannot enter them, whenever there is an emergency.
 
 “We have walk down the lane carrying pots to fetch water. It takes time to get enough water as we have to walk about 50m up and down for every pot,” said a woman, who did not want to be quoted. 
 
 When contacted, an official from the engineering section of the civic body said that they have already received complaints on the issue. He added that they are working on the issue and would sort it out soon.
 
 
