NEW DELHI: Former Odisha high court judge IM  , out on bail in connection with a medical college graft case, moved a Delhi court on Wednesday seeking an investigation into the leak of confidential transcripts of telephone conversation to the media. Seeking a court-monitored probe into the leak of transcripts of his alleged telephonic conversation with other accused in the graft case registered by the CBI, the ex-judge said the court must prevent a trial by media. 

  Special judge Manoj Jain took note of the application and sought a response from the CBI by January 22 on the plea claiming the document was confidential and was not even supplied to the accused but given to people outside the probe agency. 
 
 Advocate Vijay Aggarwal, appearing for Quddusi, said the leak points to a "grave suspicion and apprehension of interference of third parties in the investigation of the present matter".
 
  The plea argues that "monitoring of the investigation is essential to find out as to whether the alleged conversations and PE report have been leaked by someone within the CBI or they have been stolen, which is essential so as to ensure that it does not become a trial by media and that administration of justice is not compromised by interference by third parties in the investigation of the matter". 
 
 Aggarwal submitted that the possibility of tampering with the documents leaked "cannot be ruled out, for which also an inquiry is required to be conducted".
 
  The case involved help extended to allegedly procure favourable judicial orders for an Uttar Pradesh-based educational trust that had been barred from admitting students to its medical course for two years. 
 
  Quddusi, BP Yadav, Palash Yadav, Bishwanath Agrawala, and Ram Dev Saraswat were arrested on September 20, 2017, by the CBI on charges of helping the educational trust. A sixth accused, Bhawana Pandey, was arrested on September 21, 2017. All accused were granted bail. 
 
  The agency had registered a case of criminal conspiracy and under sections of the Prevention of Corruption Act against the accused on September 19, 2017, and conducted raids at eight locations in Delhi, Lucknow, and Bhubaneswar. The leaked transcripts refer to alleged conversations between Quddusi, a middleman and BP Yadav, owner of UP-based medical college Prasad Education Trust. 
 
  SC lawyer Prashant Bhushan had filed a complaint on Monday against CJI Dipak Misra in the medical college scam case and requested the five senior-most apex court judges, including the four "rebel" judges, to hold an in-house inquiry into the matter. 
 
 
