COIMBATORE: Three more persons, one of them a Chennai-based notorious rowdy, have been arrested in connection with the abduction and assault of a businessman from RS Puram on February 7 who failed to repay a loan taken from a private finance firm.

 With this, the city police have arrested a total of seven persons in the kidnap case of K Dhanraj, 41, of TV Samy Road who runs the medical shop VJ Pharmacy in RS Puram.
 
 Another four wanted in the case are reportedly on the run and the police have launched a manhunt for them.
 
 According to the police, the three -- P Ashwin, 33, of NRG Street at Sowripalayam; S John Rabinth, 40, of Velachery in Chennai; and S Paul Jose, 45 of   in   -- were arrested at Mullai Nagar check post near Vadavalli on Friday evening. The police also seized from them a BMW car. All the three were remanded in judicial custody on Saturday evening.
 
 John Rabinth, an investigating official said, was a notorious rowdy with cases pending against him at Anna Nagar and Ambattur police stations in Chennai, and Kovilpalayam and Thudiyalur police stations in Coimbatore. He had reportedly invested huge amount in the private finance firm from where Dhanraj borrowed money.
 
 “John Rabinth was a close associate of Godwin alias Thambiraj alias Ramprakash, 54, of Thoothukudi, who had 40 cases of murder, kidnap, extortion and attempt to murder against him,” the official said.
 
 Another arrested Paul Jose, he said, was a close friend of John Rabinth. 
 
 Dhanraj, the police said, had on January 26 borrowed 22 lakh from Ashwin, who runs a private finance firm named Four Saire, with a promise to return it in a week. When he failed to repay the amount, Ashwin sent his accomplices Geetha and Umashankar to Dhanraj’s home and the duo threatened him and took away his car’s documents.
 
 Subsequently, Dhanraj approached the RS Puram police on February 7. But Ashwin also came there and requested him not to lodge any complaint and promised to settle the issue amicably. The same day night, Ashwin, his friend Arun and five of their accomplices kidnapped Dhanraj, kept him under wrongful confinement and severely beat him up. Later, they dropped him near his house in their car.
 
 Based on Dhanraj’s complaint, the RS Puram police registered a case and arrested four persons last month.
 
 “Another four, identified as Geetha, Umashankar, Hari and Arun, are still at large. Arun is a history-sheeter involved in kidnapping, red sanders smuggling, attempt to murder cases,” the police said.
 
 
