CHANDIGARH: Chandigarh administration has finally forwarded all the records, information to the ministry of home affairs (MHA) to bring all Chandigarh cadre   under the purview of   to include them in DANIPS (Delhi, Andaman and Nicobar Islands Police Service) cadre. 

 The move has come following over three months of tedious exercise by the home and police department of the Chandigarh administration to convince MHA on the issue. MHA finally asked for all the related documents and current scenario of the postings of the police officers in the city.
 
 As per information, senior officers of the home and police department of the Chandigarh administration recently visited the MHA with all the related documents and detailed discussion was held with the senior officials. Bringing all the Chandigarh DSPs under the purview of MHA to include them in DANIPS instead of ongoing Punjab Police Rule –PPR- was the key matter of the discussion. Since Chandigarh is a union territory and directly falls under the purview of the MHA, the criteria of transfer and posting after inclusion of Chandigarh cadre DSPs in DANIPS cadre, was also discussed. 
 
 “Since all the record has been given to the MHA recently and they have endorsed the same, now MHA will hold a meeting with the   (DOPT) and finally with the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC). After the discussion with all the three bodies of the Central government, a final decision will be taken,” sources in the UT revealed. Sources in the Chandigarh administration said that as the case regarding the transfer of DANIPS cadre DSPs is scheduled in Punjab and   high court on May 23, Chandigarh administration wrote to MHA last week for significant move on the issue, so that the same information can be shared with the court too. “We are quite hopeful that the Central government will soon show progress in the matter, as in the series of meetings, they understood the whole issue and showed their commitment in this regard,” revealed an official.
 
 The tug of war between DANIPS cadre and   police officers is an open truth now, as various such instances have been seen in the past. The local inspectors are of the view that even after fulfilling all the eligibility to become a DSP, they are not promoted because of the the DANIPS cadre officers. Meanwhile, the inspectors who were promoted to the rank of DSPs have been complaining that they were sidelined by being given departments like headquarters, police lines, security and traffic. “Key departments like crime branch, operation cell, east –south divisions, cyber branch were given to the DANIPS cadre officers,” a local   expressed.
 
 
