Partnering with like-minded women comes naturally to producer  . After flagging off her career with mother   by her side, and more recently, forming an alliance with   for ' ', she has found another creative collaborator in filmmaker  , whose company earthsky pictures will co-produce two films with Ekta’s banner Balaji Motion Pictures. One of the films will be directed by Ashwiny and the other by a debutant, who will be mentored by Ekta and her. Their first project is an inspiring coming-of-age comedy of a married couple and the second is a light-hearted love story of hope and happiness.

 While Ekta pools in her expertise in curating mass-driven content, Ashwiny brings her sense of detailing, with a generous dose of humour, relatable stories and emotions taken straight out of asli zindagi. Rewinding on their journey so far, Ekta says, “I had seen 'Nil Battey Sannata' and had messaged her appreciating it. Next, we met on a Chennai-bound flight, sitting one behind the other, where we roughly chalked out a plan to work together. Eventually, after months of exchanges, we’re here. We get along really well. Our sensibilities work beautifully, in tandem with each other. There’s so much depth to every scene, every character she creates. When you have new talent, you mentor, but when you have talent like Ashwiny’s, you ally with her because she brings something distinct to the table.”
 
 Ashwiny adds, “In these months that we have been interacting, Ekta has always given me my space and she understands me well. There is nothing corporate about our equation. We didn’t join hands saying that, ‘Come, let’s make a blockbuster’. She keeps everything simple. She also understands human behaviour and has amazing insights about the psyche of the Indian audience. Stories, scripts and films are all about people, which she understands well. It doesn’t matter what the future professionally holds for both of us, but this relationship that I share with her today will last a lifetime.”
 
  
 
 
