KOCHI: The procedure committee constituted by the district collector has found that the collapse of an under-construction structure on April 19 occurred due to   and   underneath it. 

 
 The under-construction structure of a textile group caved in last month and part of   was also damaged in the incident.
 
 The report, which will be submitted to district collector   on Thursday, said that steel strut system supporting shoring pillars was inadequate to withstand thrust of weak soil and this led to the cave in. A second tier of strut system at a lower depth could have helped in retaining the pile system in position, the six-member committee noted in the report.
 
 "When the workers removed earth on the southern side, the soil at the bottom line turned out to be soft. Meanwhile, the interface soil behind shoring piles also turned weak,'' said an official of procedure committee.
 
 He said that workers thought that the shoring pillar would get support of the soil at the bottom line. But that did not happen due to weakness of bottom line soil. When thrust of interface soil increased, the shoring pillars broke leading to the cave in of the whole structure," said an official of procedure committee.
 
 "The report said that the incident should serve as a wakeup call to authorities and engineers in the construction industry. The report also demanded to demolish the existing building in the compound.
 
 "It would have been catastrophe if workers were there in the excavated area when the cave-in occurred," said the report.
 
 "It is only sheer luck that there was no loss of human life. There was only one building close by and this is to be dismantled now. With workers in the excavated area and with buildings close by, it would have been not just a failure but a catastrophe," said the report.
 
 The procedure committee calls for strict measures to be taken while giving permit to prevent such accidents in future.
 
 "We strongly feel that when building permits are issued, it should be after proper scrutiny of designs and construction procedures by competent engineers. When deep excavations are required for cellar floors, permits should be given only after the stability of earth retaining structure is checked and the safety of neighbouring buildings is ensured," the report said.
 
