KOHIMA: Janata Dal (United) secretary general KC Tyagi said on Saturday that the party will contest the Nagaland assembly polls alone under the leadership of the party's state convener NSN Lotha. He, however, did not elaborate on how many seats it will contest since the polls date are yet to be announced by the Election Commission of India (ECI). 

 "It is a constitutional obligation that the ECI will have to conduct the polls in the last week of February or first week of March," Tyagi said. The present tenure of Nagaland assembly ends on March 13. JD(U) has no legislator in the state at present. Though the party won a seat in 2013 state elections, the MLA later joined NPF.
 
 The decision to contest in the state was was taken at a consultative meeting of JD(U) Nagaland on Saturday, Tyagi said, adding that the Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar is keen to campaign in Nagaland. This comes after the Bihar CM dominated headlines last year for breaking away from the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) and forming a government in the state with the BJP, before going on to join the BJP-led coalition at the Centre. 
 
 Speaking at Saturday's press conference, Tyagi said the JD(U) would contest the polls on the issue of development for Naga people. "Although, sufficient fund been granted by the Centre to successive state governments, the development on the ground is very dismal," he said. "If voted to power, the JD(U) is determined to utilize the funds judiciously for the all-round development of Nagaland," Tyagi added, pointing out that the party will endeavour to fulfil its objectives by bringing down the level of corruption.
 
 Nagaland JD(U) convenor NSN Lotha revealed that some of the sitting legislators have contacted the party for a ticket but refused to divulge their names. He added that the party will hold a review to decide if they will continue to be a part of Democratic Alliance Nagaland (DAN) which also comprises the BJP, NPF and NCP. Consultations are going on in the party and a final decision has not been taken yet, he added. Lotha also revealed that YM Humtsoe, a retired bureaucrat, who served as OSD to former chief minister Neiphiu Rio, has officially joined the party and will contest the upcoming elections.
 
 Meanwhile, the Nagaland state unit of the JD(U) has decided to stage a dharna at Jantar Mantar in New Delhi during the last week of January to draw political attention to the problems plaguing Nagaland in particular and the northeast in general. 
 
 
