MANGALURU: Pre-university students in the city took to the streets over early commencement of classes. While some of the colleges remained non-functional despite a DPUE circular. As per the government circular, the academic year 2018-19 commenced from Wednesday for II PU, and will start on May 14 for I PU.

 Tens of students of   in the city decided not to attend classes, and instead staged a  . They were angry that they were not given “adequate”  . “Soon after the I PU examination which ended in the second week of February, the college started having classes instead of giving holidays. The classes continued till April 13. The college had promised us vacations till the end of May, but we are now compelled to come to classes, which is not fair. Some students have gone abroad, and others to their hometowns in different states,” expressed an unhappy student on condition of anonymity.
 
 Earlier, students at this college from the science stream, who take up integrated batch, did not avail summer vacations, and classes continued for them. This year all, science, arts and commerce students were forced to attend II PU classes despite vacations. “Not giving adequate holidays will cause stress and burden us, which will affect our studies adversely,” said a student.
 
 Fr Melwin Mendonca, principal,   PU College, who met protesting students, promised that he will take a decision on extending holidays after meeting government officials. However, he remained silent on why second PU classes and exams were conducted instead of giving holidays to students.
 
 Meanwhile, some of the private colleges too have not started classes on Wednesday, as directed by DPUE. “As per the information received, all the aided/unaided colleges opened on Wednesday. The board didn’t take into consideration private colleges. If anyone has violated the circular, the board will take necessary action,” said Elvira Philomena, in-charge, DDPU, while speaking to TOI. She added that some of the PU colleges are given exemption, as their premises are used for election purposes.
 
 
