Panaji: After acquiring over 9 lakh sqm for building a Sports City at Dhargalim in Pernem for the National Games in 2011, the state government has given the go ahead for two non-sports projects—ayurvedic hospital and Ravindra Bhavan—on this land.  As per the information available with TOI, the government is in the process of transferring 2 lakh sqm to the ministry of Ayush (Ayurveda, yoga and naturopathy, unani, siddha and homeopathy) to build an ayurvedic hospital and naturopathy centre. The transfer formalities of land from the directorate of sports and youth affairs (DSYA) to the Ayush ministry are expected to be completed later this month. North Goa MP Shripad Naik is the Union minister for Ayush.  “We were initially shown land at Chimbel but we discovered that the area was not just small but the terrain too was not conducive for our project. We asked the government for bigger land, and since our requirement was approximately 2 lakh sq mts, land at Dhargalim was allotted, The land (at Dhargalim) was unutilised for some time,” said Naik, who coincidentally is president of the Goa Olympic Association. The state government has also greenlighted a proposal from the directorate of art and culture to construct a 30,000-sqm Ravindra Bhavan at the Sports City. “Other departments started eyeing that land because it remained unutilised for a long time. The government had to take a decision when there were proposals from other departments,” said V M Prabhudesai, director, DSYA. The only sports project that could come up at Dhargalim in the immediate future is an international cricket stadium. The government has told the Goa Cricket Association (GCA) that they are ready to lease 1.9 lakh sqm for the proposed 50,000-seater cricket stadium after the GCA started asking questions about the Rs 9 crore they had deposited in the government coffers. The GCA at first paid Rs 1.5 crore for land at Tivim and on March 31, 2013, the state government encashed a cheque worth Rs 7.5 crore in lieu of land at Dhargalim. The land at Tivim, mostly forested, has since been taken back and land at Dhargalim is now being given in return. The land will be leased to GCA at Rs 19 crore with the initial lease period of 33 years, extendable for two terms of 33 years each. Even if the government transfers land to the three departments, over 5 lakh sqm would still remain unutilised at the Sports City. The Sports City was originally slotted to come up at Neura (Tiswadi taluka) in 2008 but the government encountered strong opposition from the locals and were forced to look at alternative sites. Sports minister Manohar Azgaonkar then took the project to his home constituency of Pernem but almost 10 years later, not even a brick has been laid for the first sports project.