VILLUPURAM: A special sub-inspector and two armed reserve constables were suspended on Wednesday on charges of assaulting two motorists when one of them attempted to video-record a routine vehicle inspection in   district.

 DIG (Villupuram range in-charge)   has also ordered a departmental probe into the issue by a committee headed by ADSP Rajarajan.
 
 Police said   special sub-inspector  , who was posted on deputation at   station, and constables - Iyyanar and   - of the armed reserve wing were involved in checking of vehicles on   near Auroville on Wednesday, when the team stopped two men on a motorcycle for checking their licence and documents. As one of the motorists attempted to take video of the vehicle-check, the policemen assaulted them with lathi. According to a complaint filed by the victims, the policemen had abused them and threatened to eliminate them. 
 
 
 
 
 Meanwhile, the police team stopped another motorist and allegedly extracted ?1,500 from him for violating traffic rules.
 
 The special sub-inspector (SSI) allegedly threatened to remand another motorist for hesitating to pay money. All these developments were shot by another motorist without the knowledge of the police team and the video went viral on WhatsApp.
 
 Villupuram superintendent of police S Jeyakumar said the three policemen were transferred to the armed reserve wing as soon as the incident came to the knowledge of the senior officers.
 
 “They were subsequently suspended and a departmental inquiry is underway. We have been repeatedly advising policemen on duty to behave in a polite and civilised manner in public.
 
 “The team did not overcharge (no money was collected without giving due receipt) any motorist for traffic violations. But the manner in which they conducted themselves while discharging the duty needs to the condemned. They assaulted them and used unparliamentary words. They will pay the price,” said Jeyakumar.
 
 “We have told police officers not to overreact when they notice people taking videos of police discharging their duty. Instead, such people should be booked under appropriate sections for obstructing public servants from discharging their duties,” he said.
 
 In Chennai, a call taxi driver, R Manikandan, had committed suicide by setting himself ablaze after he was assaulted by a policeman for taking videos of police checking motorists on January 21. The team of police personnel concerned had collected a penalty of ?100 from him for not fastening seat belt.
 
 A month ago, another motorist had taken to the social media, charging police with extracting money from him, during a vehicle check, though he did not violate any traffic rule.
 
 
 
