NAGPUR: Even as Rs20,000 crore is being spent on Nagpur Metro (phase I and II) to provide a mass transit system, the existing system is going to the dogs. There seems to be no ray of hope for Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s ( ) city bus service, with officers as well as office bearers clueless about how to put it on track.

 NMC transport manager   has made it clear that the bus service won’t improve until the civic body’s finances do. “We can’t really pull up the four bus operators and their coordinator, until we are in a position to pay their bills on time. Whenever we threaten strong action, they point out the unpaid bills. We owe them about Rs35 crore,” he told TOI.
 
 Standing committee chairman Sandip Jadhav wants bus operators to stop plying on routes that do not generate profit. However, earlier operator Vansh Nimay was ousted because it was doing precisely that. If Jadhav’s advice is followed, the very purpose of increasing the number of city buses will be defeated. Leader of opposition Tanaji Wanve wants the city bus service to be handed over to Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC), which had earlier stopped running it because of heavy losses.
 
 As per the contract, the three red bus operators are supposed to ply 487 buses. Currently, they are plying only 375. The green bus operator is supposed to run 55 buses. The actual number is 25. Thus the city bus strength is 25% less than what it should be.
 
 If Nagpur Metro is to be successful, then NMC’s city bus service must complement it. People will switch over to public transport only if they can travel to all areas of the city using it. Unfortunately, the state government seems to be oblivious of this fact.
 
 Jagtap said the city bus service’ revenue is less than 50% of the expenditure. “They incur a loss of Rs28.80 per km. This has to be borne by NMC. No city bus service in the country is in profit, and everywhere the local bodies have viability gap funding (VGF),” he said.
 
  (NMPL), which runs the city bus service, had sought an allocation of Rs108 crore per year for VG, and another Rs50 crore for opening an escrow account. Neither were granted and there is no possibility of NMPL getting this money anytime soon.
 
 Jagtap, however, is not entirely pessimistic about the future. “Compared to October and previous months, we were able to reduce monthly expenditure in December by about Rs50 lakh. We will introduce intelligent transport system in another two months. This will enable us to control the bus service in a better way, as every ticket issued is immediately recorded in the central server. If the ticket collection in any particular trip is too low, we will conduct a surprise check to find out whether all passengers are being issued tickets,” he said.
 
 
