It was close to six on Tuesday evening when we reached   along with   exponent  . The historic open pavilion had transformed into a magical apparition as the rays from the setting sun bent through the 12 doorways of the monument, bathing walls in a soft orange haze, while the wind rustled gently through the beautiful arches. Yet, the true magic of Taramati Baradari lies in the many 
legends that abound about Andullah Qutb Shah’s — the seventh ruler of the   dynasty — fondness for his favourite courtesan, Taramati. Yamini couldn’t help but recall the fable she grew up listening. “Abduallah used to enjoy Taramati sing while sitting in Golconda fort. Her mellifluous voice would waft through the air, reaching the king, as he sat in the  , a couple of kilometers away thanks to the perfect acoustics in the structure as well as at the fort,” she recalls.
 For Yamini, “Taramati Baradari is a beautiful symbol of love” that she has many fond memories of. “This place offers a wonderful view of the city, of the Golconda Fort and the Premamati mosque. I have performed here twice and it truly comes alive when the lights go up,” she says, climbing up the flight of stone stairs to the monument. 
 Pointing at the deserted amphitheatre, she says, “I was a teenager when I performed here for the first time 20 years ago. I performed with my parents and I still remember it was smouldering as the event took place during the day.”
 Her second performance here is something she holds very dear. “It was the first time that I performed with my entire family — my mom, dad, Kaushalya mummy and Bhavana. And that was just after I got married and shifted to Hyderabad. My new family too attended it. It was a very well received performance and we got a standing ovation,” she recounts with a smile.
 “Apart from being one of the jewels of Hyderabad, the heritage structure has also become a grand cultural and convention centre in Hyderabad. It hosts some of the finest Indian Classical music and dance performances. Had it not been located so far from the city, it would become the cultural hub of Hyderabad,” she adds. 
 However, she believes that its location makes it an abode of peace, “If one is craving for a quaint, historical getaway, this is the place to be. With light winds rustling through the lush greenery around it, with birds chirping, the picturesque sunrise and sunset — makes for a magical ambience one mustn’t miss,” she says signing off.
 
 
