MUMBAI: The ‘T’ sign used by captains to call for referrals while using the Decision Review System (DRS) now makes its way into the IPL. Until now, where the IPL rules are concerned, the ‘T’ sign meant umpires calling for a strategic timeout. Hereafter, to call for timeouts, the field umpires will raise both hands in the air and point to the wrist.

 
 Time for the rules to change again, as IPL moves into its 11th year starting Saturday. And marking the occasion is the prospect of a lip-smacking opener between   and  .
 
  
  
 
 The tournament is back on the side of the fence that has always been greener, at least if seen through the eyes of the collective cricket fraternity across the world busy squeezing every single dollar to bring revenues into the game. At a revised purse of close to US$2b — that makes for the central revenue pool of the tournament over the next five years — the T20 behemoth, one that had a rollercoaster run the last 10 years, has pressed the refresh button.
 
 After the first three editions of the IPL proved to be a shot in the arm for the tournament, the following three years remained plagued with controversies surrounding the inclusion of two new teams and their subsequent exit. And if that wasn’t enough, 2013 gave way to the malodorous spot-fixing scandal, the aftershocks of which can be felt to this day.
 
  
  
 
 Following a two-year suspension between 2016 and 2017, the highly successful Chennai Super Kings franchise is back again along with the vibrant  . An ode to the comeback is the manner in which the tournament — having experienced these serious lows and multiple legal hassles — is back to its earliest structure, one that had made fans fall in love with it 10 years ago.
 
 Gautam Gambhir is back in Delhi, MS Dhoni returns to Chennai and Yuvraj Singh is back in Punjab. That’s again an indication of going back in time to when it all started. The benefit of hindsight — and a great deal at that — should ensure IPL doesn’t lose its way so poorly again.
 
 Where cricket alone is concerned, the teams stack up impressively. Seven of the eight IPL captains, as TOI had pointed out, are Indians. BCCI’s effort to ensure a level-playing field for all franchises has meant a neat distribution of talent across teams that promises — on paper yet — a very healthy competition moving forward.
 
  
  
 
 The fact that it becomes difficult to spell out favourites with barely 24 hours left for the tournament to begin is a stark reminder of how the rivalry has spruced so nicely this time around.
 
 While all franchises, including CSK and the RR, were allowed to retain a certain set of players from their original squads and use Right To Match (RTM) for another set at the auction, Royals did begin to appear like they had been dealt a rough hand. However, having more than made up for opportunities missed during retention, Royals have now built a squad worthy of envy.
 
  
  
 
 Even Steve Smith’s exit hasn’t dented their confidence coming into the tournament and ditto for  , who dropped David Warner following the ball-tampering scandal in South Africa last month.
 
 The tournament organizers have infused fresh interest with elements like mid-season transfers — a five-day transfer window in the middle of the tournament — where only uncapped players who have played no more than two matches will be eligible for the transfers.
 
 As contests hot up and old rivalries come alive again, the only hitch yet for the IPL to look into is a more robust governing council — one that can determine how the tournament functions primarily through firmly set protocols. To think if the IPL is equipped well enough to tackle a scandal like ball tampering, should it occur as blatantly as it did in South Africa last month, is a question — even if argued to be out of context — that needs answering.
 
 That aside, the popcorn should serve well.
 
 
