BENGALURU: A 45-year-old Kashmiri terrorist, serving a life term for attempting to wage war against India, was convicted and sentenced to seven years rigorous imprisonment by a Bengaluru court in a money-laundering case on Thursday.

  Ahmed Quta alias Imran Jalal, a resident of Sadarbal near Srinagar, had been arrested in Bengaluru in January 2007. A police team headed by then CCB ACP KN Jitendranath picked up Jalal when he was on a bus coming from Hampi to Yeshwantpur, Bengaluru.
 
 Bilal was carrying arms and ammunition, had links with the Lashkar-e-Toiba and was planning to carry out terror strikes.
 
 Sources said the Enforcement Directorate initiated a case against Jalal in 2009 after receiving the FIR and chargesheet filed by Bengaluru police. Investigation revealed that Jalal had two bank accounts in Karnataka and a total of Rs 9.9 lakh had been transacted in them between July 2005 and January 2007. The transactions were in support of his planned terror offensive.
 
 Jalal had opened an account in the Jammu & Kashmir Bank branch in Bengaluru showing his original name Bilal Ahmed Quta. His other account in Canara Bank, Hampi showed him as Imran Jalal. The balance in his Canara Bank account, Rs 34,830, was attached under the Prevention of   Act (PMLA).
 
 Holding Jalal guilty of money laundering, Principal City Civil and Session Court-1 judge Shivashankar V Amarannavar said on Thursday, “The accused shall undergo rigorous imprisonment for a period of seven years and pay a fine of Rs 50,000. In default of payment of fine, the accused shall undergo simple imprisonment for six months under section 4 (punishment for money laundering) of Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA).”
 
 In its chargesheet, the CCB alleged that Jalal planned to attack the HAL Airport, Vidhana Soudha, Wipro, Infosys and   in Bengaluru. 
 
 In 2016, a sessions court in Bengaluru convicted him under Section 121 (waging or attempting to wage war or abetting waging of war against the government of India) of IPC, and sections 20 and 23(1) of Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, 1967. He was sentenced to life imprisonment on October 4, 2016 and also fined Rs 2.75 lakh. 
 
 
 
 
 Police sources said Bilal was initially a member of the JKLF. He was later drawn to the LeT and had undergone terrorist training in Pakistan. He came to Bengaluru and studied at   till 1994. He returned to Srinagar after he failed in the examination. He later returned to Karnataka and opened a Kashmiri Artifacts shops in Hampi. He, however, continued his terror activities.
 
 
