BENGALURU: The state government has banned use of   by teachers and other staff in both government and private schools.

 The circular issued by the director of public instruction (primary education) has cited that the use of cellphones by teachers and other employees during working hours is affecting teaching activities and asked the heads of the schools to act. The May 9 circular has exempted headmasters/headmistresses from the ban, but they too have been prohibited from using phones while teaching.
 
 “If there are complaints about use of cellphones during school hours, headmasters/headmistresses will be held responsible,” the circular reads.
 
 “The ban is applicable to all schools in the state. The block education officers have to send the circular to private schools in their jurisdiction,” said B K Basavaraja, director of public instruction (primary education).
 
 “Though many refrain from using phones while at work, there are complaints from parents that teachers engage students in writing activities and get occupied with browsing or WhatsApp chatting. It’s a wrong practice. Such teachers fail to motivate children.In case of any emergency, teachers’ families can call them on the landline,” said the headmaster of a government school in Bengaluru.
 
 ‘Accessing info is OK’
 
 Teachers are allowed to use their cellphones to access information while teaching. “Our only concern is that phones must not be misused in classrooms. If a teacher wants to use a phone for the purpose of teaching, that can be allowed. But they cannot answer personal calls or chat while at work. It distracts students and affects teaching,” Basavaraja said. 
 
  However, this is not a new policy for many schools in Bengaluru. “Teachers cannot carry phones in the corridor and classrooms. They can use them only in the staff room. This has been the practice in our school for the past 4-5 years when smartphones became popular. It is a major distraction for students and teachers too,” said Sujatha Mohandas, principal, Sishu Griha School.
 
 Circular silent on kids using phones 
 
 The circular makes no mention about use of cellphones by students in schools. When asked, senior officials in the education department said students, especially in government schools, don’t carry mobile phones to school. “We presume that the situation is the same in private schools too. Cellphones used by anyone during teaching hours is nothing but a nuisance. Parents must take note of the issue,” said an officer.
 
 
