NEW DELHI :   Jail   are rattled due to   mysterious   in the past one week. While the jail was rocked by brawls and law and order issues in November, the deaths have become a new challenge for the jail authorities and police.

 While one of the deaths is being investigated as suicide, police said kin of the second dead inmate, Amit Dagar, have alleged foul play in the incident. Magisterial inquiries and inquest proceedings under Section 174 CrPC have been initiated in both incidents.
 
 Dagar, who was lodged in jail number 4, was found dead under mysterious circumstances in his cell early on Sunday. His family approached police on Monday seeking a probe into his death. The man had been sent to Rohini jail in 2012 charged with murdering a person in Jahangirpuri along with his brother Satish. He was convicted a year later.
 
 “Recently, while he was on parole, Amit told us that he was being discriminated and harassed by a superintendent. After his parole ended, he was sent to Tihar. He was 23 and could not have suffered a heart attack as claimed by the authorities,” Satish told TOI. He also claimed that Dagar’s fellow inmates saw him eating an egg even though it was not on the menu.
 
 The convict’s body was handed over to his family after autopsy on Monday. Satish alleged that his brother’s fingers had turned blue due to some kind of poisoning.
 
 Jail authorities said that the cause of death would be established once the inquiry is complete. “We conduct regular health check-up of inmates and their food is monitored. We will only be able to find out the cause of the death after the medical and inquiry reports are submitted,” said a Tihar Jail spokesperson.
 
 The first death was of an undertrial, Soniram, who was arrested for a robbery attempt near Kashmere Gate. He committed suicide using a quilt in jail number 5 on December 23. His body was collected by his brother. Jail authorities are yet to ascertain the cause behind the extreme step even after a week.
 
 Other inmates told the investigators that Soniram did not show any signs of depression days before the incident. He was a vagabond near Kashmere Gate metro station and was caught by a traffic police constable in January 2017 while trying to rob a man at knifepoint.
 
 Investigations are also being conducted on an order from a city court regarding a brawl between a group of high-profile prisoners, including Hizbul chief Syed Salahuddin’s son Syed Shahid Yusuf, and jail security guards.
 
 
