CHANDIGARH: State project director of   (RUSA) sought utilisation certificates from two colleges whose grants were not released by   (MHRD) as they have not submitted the detailed utilisation certificate of the 75% of the grants received last time for development of infrastructure.

 Recently, the state project director office received communication that MHRD has not released grant to Sri Guru Gobind Singh, Sector 26 and Guru Gobind Singh College for  , Sector 26, Chandigarh.
 
 As per the norms, colleges which receive second instalment of the grants have to submit a utilisation certificate that 75% of the previous grants received has been already used on various projects of the respective colleges. But these two colleges failed to do so which led to their exclusion from receiving the grants which have now been released by MHRD for seven  . 
 
 State project director (RUSA)-cum-director of higher education, UT   said the colleges were asked to submit their utilisation certificates at the earliest so that the education department can forward the same to the ministry to get the funds under RUSA. He said as and when the certificates will be received they will take up the matter with the higher authorities.
 
 Popli has also asked the colleges which have received the grants to submit a detailed plan on how they will utilise the second instalment of the fund in the projects of the colleges. 
 
 Rashtriya Uchchatar Shiksha Abhiyan (RUSA) scheme under MHRD released grants amounting to Rs 4 crore under infrastructure head as second instalment. Seven colleges including Post Graduate Government College for Girls, Sector 42, Post Graduate Government College for Girls, Sector 11, Post Graduate Government College, Sector 46, Government Home Science College, Sector 10, MCM College for Women-36, Dev Samaj College for Women, Sector 45, DAV College, Sector 10 and   of English, Sector 32, Chandigarh received Rs 50 lakh each.
 
 The grant has been released on the basis of percentage utilization of earlier grant received from MHRD. Earlier, the   (|PAB) of Rashtriya Uchchatar Shiksha Abhiyan (RUSA) of MHRD, accorded approval for the total amount of Rs 20 crore under infrastructure grant to city colleges. 
 
 
