KOLKATA:   general secretary Sitaram   is ready to seek cooperation from all secular parties in building movements against BJP, but doesn’t say so when it comes to electoral tactics. He, instead, prefers to announce the alliance issue ahead of Lok Sabha polls.

 “Our main target is to remove BJP from power. We want to do this based on some alternative policies that will be taken up for discussion in the party   beginning April 18. We will announce our electoral tactic during elections,” Yechury said on the second day of CPM’s West Bengal state conference on Tuesday, pushing the debate on whether to have an electoral understanding with Congress to the CPM party congress.
 
 However, Yechury has no problem seeking cooperation from all in people’s against “fascistic” RSS-BJP. “In people’s movements, we will seek the cooperation of all in defence of the Constitution and against communal division. But we have to distinguish such movements from electoral tactics,” he said.
 
 The CPM general secretary then laid down the first steps before going in for an electoral understanding. “As I said, we will begin with the Left parties, then broaden the periphery of the movement by seeking cooperation of other democratic forces and then build up struggles with several secular formations across states,” he said.
 
 Yechury then pointed to the continuing violence in Tripura to buttress his argument against the “fascistic” trait in BJP-RSS. “A total of 514 comrades have been attacked so far, 64 party offices have been gutted, 90 mass organisation offices have been captured. BJP’s fascistic trait has been well displayed at Tripura’s Belonia where they dismantled Lenin’s statue. What’s more, the governor of Tripura, holding a constitutional position, has expressed happiness over the dismantling of the statue. This is a grave danger,” Yechury said. CPM is writing to Prime Minister   against the violence.
 
 Without going into a hair-splitting debate over what to call BJP — authoritarian or fascist — Yechury said: “It is our party understanding that RSS is a fascistic force. BJP, and earlier Jan Sangh, are all its political fronts. RSS had to float such fronts after Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel banned RSS from politics following Mahatma Gandhi’s assassination.”
 
 
