JAIPUR/ALWAR: With two Yadavs pitted against each other in Alwar’s   byelections, a farmer leader has jumped into the fray making the contest even more interesting. 

 Kisan Mahapanchayat patron and former BJP leader,   will file his nomination for Alwar’ Lok Sabha byelection on January 10. 
 
 A farmers’ meeting was held in Jaipur on Sunday in which Kisan Mahapanchayat and 45 different farmers’ unions came to take part in the meeting and unanimously decided to field Jat as their candidate in the bypolls, said Giriraj Singh Khangarot, media in-charge, Kisan Mahapanchayat. Khangarot said that it will be the beginning of ‘kisan raj’ (farmer rule) from  . 
 
 However,   taking on the BJP candidate Jaswant Singh Yadav would in itself make the fight interesting. Both parties fielded Yadav candidates as Alwar constituency has a siezable population of Yadavs, which will make a difference in the bypolls. 
 
 Both parties kept education criteria in mind while selecting the candidates. Congress candidate is a heart specialist while BJP fielded an Ayurveda doctor, who has a Bachelor of Ayurveda, medicine and surgery (BAMS) degrees under his belt. Congress candidate held superintendent post at Sawai Man Singh Hospital. Only time will tell if an allopathy doctor can win the election or Ayurveda doctor will reach the Parliament. 
 
 In Alwar’s Lok Sabha constituency, there are eight state assembly constituencies accommodating 18.27 lakh voters. The Indian election commission has already published final voters list. Among total voters, there are 9.61 lakh male voters and 8.56 lakh female voters. 
 
 BJP had won seven from eight assembly seats of Alwar’s Lok Sabha constituency. 
 
 From Alwar’s Lok Sabha constituency, eight times Yadav candidates had won the polls while in other eight times, candidates from other castes bagged the seat.
 
 Both BJP and Congress will take steps in formulating strategies while keeping in mind the caste equation in Alwar constituency having 3.35 lakh Meo voters, 4.5 lakh from SC, 3.6 lakh from Yadav community, 1.4 lakh Jat voters, 1.15 Meena voters, 1.15 lakh Brahmin voters and 1 lakh Vaish voters. 
 
 In 2014, Mahant Chandnath had defeated Congress candidate Jitendra Singh by a margin of 2,83,895 votes. It is the Lok Sabha seat from where Congress had won 10 times. 
 
 
