Itishree.Misra@timesgroup.com

 RJ, VJ, host, anchor, singer and actor   wears a hat too many, yet manages to juggle them all fairly well. Playing the lead in several films in Bollywood now, apart from cutting singles and hosting TV shows, Maniesh is hungry for more. In Lucknow recently, the 'Micky Virus' actor spoke to us about how he’s happy in the space he is in in his career and how he can never be a part of a roast.
 
 
 Maniesh, who’s been to the city earlier, said that he thinks it’s the people who make a city and Lucknowites are the most loveable. "I love the city. I just don’t want to talk about the nawabs and the kebabs here, there’s much more to Lucknow," said he, adding. "I love the warmth of the people here. I used to come to Lucknow in 2009 rather frequently for a show of mine. I was required to visit people’s homes for the show and the kind of love and warmth I got from people then was overwhelming. They would willingly open their homes and their hearts to us. Lucknow walon ki khaatirdaari bhi unki tarah shaandaar hoti hai. They would be so enthusiastic to be part of a TV show. People here are basically very simple at heart."
 
 
 Having played the lead in several films including the most recent ' ' and 'Micky Virus', Maniesh is not perturbed that his films have not exactly shaken the Box Office. "My films, I know, haven’t done so well. But then I feel that will being in the 100 crore club make me a different actor? Will not being in that bracket affect my acting? No. My acting will remain the same," he reasoned. Maniesh further added, "I'm not vying to be in the 100 crore club. As of now, for a new comer, I think I’m doing fairly well. My aim is to keep entertaining the audience and doing good work. Ultimately, the producer should not face a loss, that’s what matters. Whatever the outcome of the film, I will always be putting my best in every project. But yes, I do hope the film does well so that the producers benefit from it."
 
 
 Known for his wit and comic timing, Maniesh has managed to not court controversy with his jokes and remarks till now. Believing in playing it safe as a host Maniesh said, "I don't consider myself a comedian. I don't compare myself with   or any other stand up comedian. Kapil, I believe is one of the best stand up comedians we have in India, as of now. I have always considered myself a host and an actor and I’m happy in my space. I do my shows, I do my films as the hero. In my last film I was beating goons, I was taking my T-shirt off I had songs to sing so all those things give me a high."
 Adding further to the thought Maniesh said, "In my humour, I don’t believe in hitting below the belt. I don’t believe in just body shaming, talking about clothes to create humour. I like to make fun of myself. If I’m making fun of you, I’ll make sure that the next joke is on me. So that's why all these senior actors in Bollywood are comfortable when I’m around. I’ve never had a time when senior actors have had to go through my scripts and ask ki kya kar rahe ho yaar, pehle hamein script dikhao. I’ve made sure that people don’t get disturbed or upset with my jokes, I’ve never said anything controversial. My shows are such that the whole family can watch it. Meri ma mera show dekhti hain. Unke liye main bahot bada hero hoon. Aisi hi   (Singh) ki mummy ke liye woh bahot bada hero hai, so I can’t be saying anything derogatory about him and having people laugh over it. I feel it’s not about us, but for the families watching us. So I can never get into roasting. I’ve never been like that. I believe in good humour, which is nice and beautiful. Tomorrow if I see what I did two years ago, it should bring a smile on my face and not make me or anyone else cringe." 
  
  Maniesh Paul in Lucknow (BCCL/ Farhan Ahmad Siddiqui)
 
 
 
 
 Having sung and shot a video for a single with Iulia Vantur, the Romanian TV host and anchor, Maniesh is all praises for his co-star. "Iulia is the sweetest soul I’ve met. She’s a big star in her own country where it’s difficult for her to get out of her own house because she’s mobbed. But here she’s starting from the scratch and trying to make her own mark. She’s a beautiful singer and an actress. I acted with her for the first time and she was brilliant. We had some romantic scenes, we had to cry, dance and do the works and she was awesome, a pro at it all. I hope I can work with her on more songs." 
 
 
 Maniesh credits his current success to his stint on TV as a VJ, actor, anchor and host of shows. Having acted in a few serials including '  ' and 'Chhoona Hai Aasmaan', Maneish's popularity rose as a the host and anchor of shows like 'Jhalak Dikhla Ja', 'India’s Got Talent', 'DID Li’l Masters' and 'Sa Re Ga Ma Pa Singing Superstars', among others. Saying that he will never give up anchoring, he added, "I will never give up anchoring. It is what I love doing. I love to talk and that’s what I do best, so by default, it's one profession which suits me the best. As far as giving up TV for films is concerned, never. I will never give up TV, either. That is what has made me popular and that’s what given me an identity. People know Maniesh Paul because of TV. It satisfies my urge to connect with people closely. But I will stick to hosting and anchoring shows. I will not do serials and soaps now. They're not my cup of tea anymore."
  — Itishree.Misra@timesgroup.com
 
 
 
