PATNA: The   on Tuesday extended the last date of receiving application forms from Indian students for admission in postgraduate courses till May 30. However, there is no extension of deadline for foreign students to submit their application form, a   statement said. 

 The courses are to commence from August.
 
 Capacity building programme: The Centre for Excellence of Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) at Baldwin Academy, Dhawalpura, organized a two-day capacity building programme on ‘classroom management’ on Tuesday. 
 
 CBSE regional officer Jagdish Burman and head of the centre (Patna) Dr Akhilesh Kumar inaugurated the programme for students and teachers. As many as 70 teachers from various schools of the city attended the programme. 
 
 “The workshop is an endeavour for making teachers aware of wide variety of classroom management skills and techniques that the students need,” Burman said.
 
 Seminar at CUSB: DIG (central range) Rajesh Kumar shared with the students the mantra of success and importance of making timely decision at a seminar organized by the Centre for Mass Communication and Media of Central University of South Bihar (CSUB) on Tuesday, PRO of CUSB, Md Mudassir Alam said. 
 
 Kumar highlighted the nuances of a successful life. The topics of seminar included good health and habits, time management, stress management, setting the goal in life and the importance of hard work. 
 
 “If you wake up early in the morning and give one hour daily to your body by working out like jogging, exercise, yoga and meditation, you will feel a remarkable change and freshness in body and mind. In short, you will become healthy and get rid of many types of diseases,” the DIG said.
 
 Workshop on road safety: The National Institute of Fashion Technology (NIFT), Patna, in association with the   (SDMD) organized an awareness workshop on road safety on Tuesday. 
 
 SDMD chairman Vyas Ji spoke about the programme that is aimed at spreading awareness among students and teachers about road safety through various activities. NIFT-P co-director Nandan Singh Vohra highlighted the importance of road safety.
 
 
