GREATER NOIDA: Two persons were killed and 23 others were injured when a UP Roadways bus fell off the   around 4.30 am as its driver dozed off near Formula One track in Dankaur,   on Sunday. The bus was on its way from Auraiya depot to Anand Vihar in New Delhi, carrying 23 passengers apart from the driver and the conductor. 

  The bus fell off from a height of 20 feet to the ground after crushing the sidewalls of the expressway near Salarpur underpass. The bus's front portion got completely damaged as it hit the ground, overturned and the occupants fell off their seat.   (20), an original resident of Auraiya, and Ram Kishan (50), who belongs to Etawah, sitting on the front seat, died on the spot. Sharma was a BSc student while Kishan was an employee at a printing press in his hometown. 
 
  Sharma was travelling with his brother's wife Ruchi (30) and her two children - Vaishnavi (7) and Vaibhav (6) - to Delhi. Ruchi received fracture on her left leg while Vaibhav got bruises on right thigh. Vaishnavi escaped with minor injuries. 
 
 The driver, Pradeep Kumar Singh, received serious injuries on the head and abdomen and he got sandwiched between his seat and windshield. He is admitted to the ICU while the bus conductor, Sukhveer, received head injuries and is recuperating in the general ward.
 
 Brajesh Kumar, a survivor, said he had boarded the bus in Auraiya depot at 9.30pm for Anand Vihar. "I was sitting in the middle and the bus was speeding over 80 kmph. Suddenly, the driver dozed off and we felt a massive jolt. The bus hit the right sidewall and fell to the ground. There was panic all around. Fortunately, I survived with minor head injuries," he told TOI in the hospital. 
 
 The officials from Jaypee Infratech Ltd, operator of   expressway, and security guards rushed to the spot. They called ambulance and also informed police.
 
 SSP, Noida, Love Kumar said a police team soon reached the spot and rushed the victims to Kailash Hospital in Greater Noida.
 
 The chief medical officer of Kailash Hospital said that Sagar Sharma and Ram Kishan were brought dead. "They had head injuries and blood loss. The bus driver received serious injuries and he is in ICU. Other occupants have received fractures, elbow dislocations, injuries on head, body etc.," he said.
 
 Those sitting in the front portion of the bus received serious injuries as the vehicle landed on the ground from nearly 20-feet. The fuel spilled out but fortunately it did not catch fire. 
 
 "Some survivors said that the driver had dozed off which led to the accident. The driver is in ICU and not in a condition to give statement. We will register a case for rash driving and negligence if a complaint is received," said a police officer.
 
 
