Ludhiana: In a tragic incident, a class XII student of Government Senior Secondary School in Ghawaddi, Harjot Kaur (18), died of cardiac arrest after she could not check her result online due to the slow website of the Punjab School Education Board (PSEB). According to the family, the girl was excited for her result, as she was achieving top position in the school since class I, and was expecting the same result.

 On Monday, while some of her classmates checked their results, Harjot could not do it, and so she presumed her marks were less, and the result of only a few top students had been released. Minutes later, she started feeling unwell and was rushed to hospital where she was declared dead. When her parents reached home with her body, they identified that she had again topped her school with 86.44% marks.
 
 On Thursday, the school organized a special prayer in her remembrance. Daughter of a Ghawaddi-based carpenter, Harjot — who aspired to be a teacher — breathed her last a few minutes before her class XII result was out. The girl was dear to her family and school.
 
 “She was excited for her result on Monday, as she studied really hard for the entire year. She was asking her cousin Gurmail to check her results again and again. However, the website was slow. Meanwhile, she cooked food for her family and had lunch. A few minutes later, she started feeling unwell, after which we called a doctor. He said Harjot was fine, but seemed to be in some tension due to the result. A few minutes later, Harjot again complained she was feeling unwell, after which we rushed her to a nearby hospital where doctors declared her dead,” shared her mother Sukhjeet Kaur.
 
 The family could not believe it and took their daughter to another hospital, but were left disappointed. When the family reached home, Harjot’s friends were already waiting to tell her she had topped in the school. Her father Jeetpal Singh said: “Harjot was my elder daughter. She was very lucky for the entire family. I could not believe that she is not with us. She cooked food for me half an hour before she died. I still feel she is around me.”
 
 Further, her mother shared: “When she was not able to check her result, she got tensed up. She said it seemed the board had uploaded the result of only a few students who had scored good marks. She must have scored less marks, and therefore, her result was not showing on the website.”
 
 Harjot’s friend Gagandeep Kaur, who lives near her house, said: “Harjot always wanted to top in the class. She told me she had prepared halwa and would eat it after checking the result. I am not able to believe I have lost my friend.” She added that Harjot wanted to become a teacher and was planning to get admission in a government college for further studies.
 
 Besides, her school that achieved 100% result in class XII did not even celebrate their achievement due to the loss of their bright student. School principal Tajinder Kaur said: “Harjot was an ideal student for all. She was our topper and the most sincere student. Our school got upgraded two years ago, and this was the first batch of XII. After the result, we were planning a celebration, but we come to know that our topper student Harjot had passed away. Today, we organized a special prayer for her. To pay tributes to her, we will frame her photo and result in a greeting card which she presented to one of the teachers, and put it on the school wall.”
 
 Father Jeetpal Singh said he was getting calls from different colleges with offers to admit Harjot in their colleges. 
 
 
