PANAJI: Around 50% of the applications received by the directorate of education to open primary schools have been for   medium. Despite the state government taking a decision that no English primary schools would be granted permission after it announced the medium of instruction (MoI) policy, the directorate of education has still received 15 applications. 

  Of the 61 applications received for new primary schools in the state, 24 are from educational institutions and trusts for starting Konkani schools in the state, 14 for Marathi medium schools, seven for  , one for Sindi and 15 for English medium. Director of education G P Bhat told TOI , "We have forwarded all the applications to the additional district education inspector (ADEI) for a feasibility report." 
 
  
  
 
 Bhat said that last year they had not given permission to start any new primary school based on the government policy that there is no need for more. 
 
 The applications to start schools are from Mapusa, Vasco, Betim, Margao, Ponda, Tiswadi, Dharbandora, Canacona, Porvorim and  , among others. The last date for sending in applications was extended from November 30, 2017, to January 31 this year. A senior government officer said that the English primary schools' applications would be directly rejected because it is against the state policy. 
 
 The policy encourages primary education in the mother tongue.
 
 "We have not asked additional district education inspector (ADEI) to give a feasibility study for the English medium primary schools," a senior government officer said.
 
 The senior government officer said the directorate of education's stand is clear-the government should not grant more permissions to primary schools as there are already an excess. Government schools are being closed, many have lower enrolment. "There is no need to give more permission for schools," senior government officer said. 
 
 The government officer said that over the last three years there have been a lot of applications to start Urdu schools from societies and trusts. "As per law once we receive the applications for new a primary school we asked the ADEI to inspect the site and give a feasibility report and based on the DoE take a call on applications," the senior government officer said, adding that in most cases there are objections from the existing schools.
 
 The officer said that first permission is granted to start the school and the following year, after inspecting the school to verify the teachers and students enrolled, it is given recognition.
 
 
