BHOPAL: In an unprecedented move, the   government is denotifying 10 protected heritage sites, which were restored through government funding, and is offering them on a platter to private players.

 Some of these monuments may be converted into heritage hotels, say sources.
 
  
  
 Manoj Shrivastava, principal secretary, culture, explained that “adaptive reuse of heritage” is the aim.
 
 “Ten sites under state archaeology have been de-notified after recommendation by a state level committee,” he confirmed.
 
 Heritage conservationists see red. Noted conservationist S M   said: “Once a heritage property is in private hands, entry of the public by and large is restricted. The idea of protecting heritage is aimed at valuing our heritage, culture and spirit of India.”
 
 The MP heritage department received Rs 175 crore for conservation, development and management of heritage sites, including three world heritage sites. Grants also came from Union ministry of tourism and culture, Planning Commission, 13th Finance Commission and other government organizations.
 A significant portion of these funds went towards renovating these 10 now unprotected sites.
 
 One of them is Bajrang Garh Fort. It was only in 2016 that the MP government requested the Centre for funds to revive the fort.
 
 Information on this was given by MoS culture and tourism (independent charge) Dr   in Lok Sabha.
 
 Recently, after a meeting chaired by chief secretary  , it was decided to give away this fort and nine other ancient monuments to private hands.
 
 The culture Department then excluded all these monuments from the list of stateprotected ones under MP Ancient Monuments and Archaeological Sites and Remains Act, 1964.
 
  The notification said that under Section 34 of the Act, the state government feels it is “no longer necessary to protect the monuments/ area”. Ancient monuments and archaeological sites of historical, archaeological or artistic interest that have been in existence for not less than 100 years are protected by department of archaeology, archives and museums. As many as 497 monuments are protected under state archaeology department. After spending crores on conservation on heritage sites like Taj Mahal Palace, Benazir Palace, and  , the government decided to hand over parts of them to private investors.
 
