His office looks crammed — there are quite a number of framed photographs, a few of them hanging from the walls and the rest all stacked on one side of the room. In another corner, he has a big shelf of coffee-table books and magazines, featuring photographs he had taken earlier; piled up at another end of the room are the dismantled sets he had used for some of his recent photoshoots. 
Sitting in the middle of all this, is  , a Chennai-based photographer who has been freelancing across the globe, calmly going through the photographs from a shoot he has just completed with   from Chennai. The models, Namitha and Saro, peer over his shoulders into his laptop, suggesting ideas, and looking quite pleased with the outcome of the shoot. And that is when we get talking... What follows is an hour-long conversation with the trio, with Ramachandran insisting on captioning the pictures in his words. So, here goes the story, captions and all...
 Not often that shoots have been done with transgenders, at least here. Ask Ramachandran about what triggered him to do a shoot with them. With a smile, he replies, “There’s only one reason behind this shoot that is to take the transgender   to the next level. I have done a lot of photoshoots for women models and have travelled extensively with them for the shoots. I have even shot with transgender models in the early days of my career as a freelance photographer. Ten years ago, when I turned my focus to glamour and started off as an international photographer, I worked with transgender models in Bangkok. But soon, I got busy with other commitments, including art, nude, and fashion shoots for international magazines. Meanwhile, I met a friend of mine and we happened to discuss transgenders. That’s when he had told me about a book on   he had written. Every day, I would read small portions of it. Each time I read it, I would have tears in my eyes reading their touching life experiences — the thayamma operation they underwent, rejection faced in the society, etc. Despite that, in our society, they are pictured as those who make a living out of begging and prostitution. But world over, transgenders are doing well in different fields just like anyone else. Today, in France, many photographers work with transgenders; they walk the ramp in leading fashion shows and what not. So, that thought struck me, ‘Why not a shoot with transgenders in Chennai?’” 
 But the next question was, where to find transgender models in Chennai? “I went back to my friend who wrote the book. I asked him if he could help me meet a few transgenders who would be willing for photo shoots. That’s how I met Jaya ma’am and Sudha ma’am from Sahodaran, an organisation that works for the LGBT community. Through them, I met all the 12 transgenders that I’ve done this   with. Initially, I had to sit with each of them and explain about the kind of photography I do mostly, the concepts of this shoot and so on. Finally, we started the pre-production work in January. Altogether, it took us two months to complete the entire work. Though I have 12 concepts, I’m planning to release only six of them now. I want to feature these photographs in galleries where these models will get good exposure. What’s interesting is that each transgender model I’ve used in these shoots is quite different from the other. Take the case of Namitha; she’s already walked the ramp for several shows and is also into films now. But, for Saro, this was the first time that she was posing in front of a camera. Then, there’s one plus-size model. I wanted each of them to be different and have unique backgrounds. Every single set for the shoot was real. I created them myself, and there’s no computer manipulation. For example, see ‘Struggle For Freedom’, the shoot that Namitha did. She breaks free from a man’s body and comes out as a woman. She’s standing inside a real cast,” explains Ramachandran. 
 
 
  
 
 This being her first-time experience, Saro was nervous in the beginning and has no qualms in admitting it. “I had never put on makeup or posed in front of a camera. So, I was nervous initially, but once we started with the shoot, I felt at ease,” she says. Meanwhile, Ramachandran, interrupts, “But the finished photograph doesn’t look as if she posed in front of the camera for the first time. Expressions come quite naturally to her. She has such an innocent face. That’s the basic thing you need to be photogenic. If one has that, he/she can bring all the expressions within her easily.” On the other hand, Namitha has been doing modelling for quite some time. She says, “I have been into modelling for the last seven years. I’ve gone for transgender pageants and am also doing a few movies now. So, I want to do well in different fields and set an example for others in my community,” says Namitha. 
 
 
  
 
