Madurai: Thanks to efforts of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), which has taken financial literacy to the masses, students aged between 14 and 18 years have fared much better when it comes to financial participation as well as financial calculations parameters, the annual ASER (annual status of education report) survey has revealed.

 The survey, undertaken in the district to represent Tamil Nadu says that as much as 82.2% student population have their own bank accounts, 60% deposited and withdrawn money, 41.2% have used ATMs and 6.3% use mobile banking facility. As far as financial calculation parameters are concerned, 79.8% can manage budgets, 71.4% can take a purchasing decision, 37.6% know applying discounts and 16.3% could calculate repayment.
 
 Lead bank manager for Madurai district, M Irulappan said the results are due to efforts taken by the RBI in imparting financial literacy to people from all walks of life including the student community. In Madurai, three banks namely Canara Bank, Pandiyan Grama Bank and South Indian Bank run financial literacy centres, educating financial literacy programmes to people. As part of it, students are also trained to manage their accounts and carry out banking transactions, he said.
 
 Another reason for the increased banking knowledge is that scholarships are deposited in students’ accounts directly under direct benefit transfer of central government. Chief education officer of Madurai district, N Marimuthu said the direct transfer has greatly increased banking exposure to students.
 
 Further, students also tend to do part-time jobs once they enter college, indicating that they continue banking transactions even beyond collecting their scholarships. Moreover, the students also bridge the financial illiteracy of their parents if they are uneducated in rural areas.
 
 R Suryanarayanan, a bank manager at Usilampatti said that students are aware of banking transactions and exposed to banking by elders when compared to previous generations. Almost all students including those from rural backgrounds are aware of banking activities at present. However, the rural students lag behind when it comes to mobile or internet banking facilities. Urban and semi-urban students seem to have better control on mobile banking, because they are better exposed to mobile phones, especially e-commerce activities. 
 
 
