Having spent nearly a decade in the UK, actress   was just getting used to Kochi when she came across Inji, a stray kitten, near her apartment complex. “All my life, I had wanted a dog but couldn’t keep one owing to different reasons. I used to make do by feeding stray dogs in the streets. Adopting Inji was a convenient arrangement for me as I could bring her up to my flat in the evenings and let her stay the night. In the morning, she would go out and roam around.”

 Inji was named so as she was a white cat with ginger patches on her tail, Santhy says. “She was the sweetest, most adorable cat ever, and would come running when I called. It was her presence which made me feel like Kochi is home.”
  
  
 The actress’ voice cracks a bit when she recalls how Inji died mysteriously and suddenly one day. “She was pregnant, and we thought she wouldn’t come to us for a while. But one day, my mother found her meowing at the doorstep of our flat! Usually I bring her through the lift but that day, she had climbed up the six floors somehow by herself and landed exactly at our door.” 
 
  It was obvious that Inji needed a safe place to give birth, and the family arranged a comfy spot for her in Santhy’s bedroom. Santhy had to travel the next few days and was eagerly waiting to see Inji’s kittens on her return when her dad called her to say that Inji was found lying dead. “I couldn’t even say goodbye or see her. I still imagine she is out there somewhere, and will come meowing when I call,” she says.
  
  
 Santhy’s friends knew how much she missed a pet, and on her birthday last month, they planned a surprise for her. They contacted a local NGO which rescues animals and zeroed in on a tiny puppy as a gift for Santhy. “I was super happy. Mishti and her siblings were found abandoned in a plastic bag at Tripunithura. My friends knew I didn’t care for the breed of a dog and she was the perfect one for me. She got the name from Mishti Dhoi, a Bengali sweet. I spent three of years of my childhood in Kolkata and grew up loving it. Mishti has a heart-shaped patch on her forehead, so it’s like mishti heart or sweetheart.” 
  
  
 But all was not smooth, and Santhy’s apartment association sent a notice to her dad right on the following day that pets are not allowed, that Mishti had to go. “I read up and found that the Animal Welfare Board of India cites that it’s illegal to deny a flat owner a pet or the use of common areas for pets. But then, we didn’t want it to affect relationships with neighbours.” 
 So, for the present, Mishti is at Santhy’s friends’ apartment nearby. “I spend a lot of time there and so I take care of her, feed her and teach her tricks,” she says. Mishti is always hungry and sleeps a lot, on her back, showing her tummy, says Santhy. “She loves to snuggle and will find a spot on my neck. And she is a totally Malayali dog as she just loves grated coconut. We leave a little on the shell and she will run away with it and nibble on it. She has appropriated a couple of my soft toys and sleeps hugging them.” 
 
 It is not yet a month since Mishti came into her life, but Santhy says she is already obsessed. “I’m just waiting for the day I will get an independent place for myself and can be with her 24/7. Indian dogs are simply the best,” she says.
 
  
  
 
