MUMBAI: The   on Tuesday informed the   it had identified 1,600 manholes on which grilles would be fixed to avoid any fatal fall like the one that occurred last August when Mumbai lost Bombay Hospital gastroenterologist  .

 His body was found in a Worli drain after he fell into an open manhole near his home at Elphinstone Road during a deluge.
 
 BMC special counsel Anil Sakhare with Trupti Puranik said the civic administration had initiated a   to cover the manholes.
 
 A bench of justices SS Kemkar and MS Karnik was hearing a public interest litigation that highlighted the need for a comprehensive policy on manhole management in Mumbai. A Federation of Retail Traders Welfare Association had moved the HC after the doctor’s death. Its counsel Sujay Kantawalla said some “miscreants’’ had opened the outer solid metal cover of the manhole causing the unsuspecting doctor to fall into it as the roads were flooded.
 
 The bench sought a reply from the BMC with a status update on measures taken to put a wire mesh or   on manholes. The HC gave the BMC two weeks to file its affidavit.
 
 The main prayers in the PIL are to set up a committee to look into problems posed by manholes and to immediately fix solid iron grilles, especially across large manholes. 
 
 Kantawalla also clearly mentioned that though this is not an adversarial litigation, of the four affidavits filed so far by various government servants, two have pleaded for dismissal of the PIL. The bench appeared to frown on such approach in these affidavits.
 
 Earlier, a bench of former chief justice Manjula Chellur and justice Nitin Jamdar, while hearing the PIL, had said, “We lost a leading doctor,” but declined to consider any plea for criminal case against the BrihanMumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) chief or for Rs50 lakh to be given as “compensation” to an NGO.
 
 One of the affidavits in court filed by Mahesh Narvekar, chief officer, Disaster Management Department of BMC opposed the PIL as he said it “involves various disputed questions of facts”, which, he added, the HC cannot examine in a PIL. He said in view of the forecast for heavy rains on August 28-29, the BMC disaster control room had placed its officers on high alert and the SWD department was asked to provide adequate de-watering pumps among a host of other instructions issued. He said the “prompt and diligent steps by civic officers” had brought the city “to normalcy within 12 hours.”
 
 
