NASHIK: The oil marketing companies (OMCs) have made changes in the pulsars of oil dispensing machines at fuel stations to ensure that customers get the right quantity of fuel. 

 An electronic seal has been set up in the gadget that can be opened only with a one time password ( ) sent to the concerned officials.
 
 A year ago, tampering with the pulsars and giving short delivery of fuel to consumers was unearthed in  .
 
 "Now, the oil marketing companies have come out with measures to ensure that the 'pulsars' cannot be modified without the knowledge of the company, officials from the weights and measures department, and the fuel pump owner. All of them will get an OTP to open the electronic seal for changing the flow of the fuel in the dispenser," said  , in charge deputy controller, legal metrology department,  .
 
 "The new pulsars will have to be unlocked manually for making any changes to the system. When opening it, a request has to be made to the server which sends OTPs to three registered mobile numbers. This way, any tampering or alteration will be notified to the stakeholders," Abhange said.
 
 The OTPs do not have to be sent to the fuel pump owners, but they only reflect that someone has sought permission to open the pulsar case. "In such a situation, the concerned officials can interact and validate the process, if it was required and make note of the same. If the process was not required, the fuel pump owner will have to give an explanation," he added.
 
 Almost all the fuel pumps in Nashik district have been fitted with the system and the OTP system will soon begin.
 
 "The system is to be activated in a couple of weeks. Some places it has been done and the inspectors from the department have been taken into the loop," Abhange said.
 
 Fuel dealers are also looking at the development in a positive manner.
 
 "We have been told about the new system. A few outlets were selected on a pilot basis and the results are being studied," a dealer said.
 
 "We do not have to worry about it as far as we are not fiddling with the supply," he added.
 
 
