CHENNAI:   operators seem to care two hoots for state transport minister M R Vijayabaskar's warning against fleecing passengers.

 On Friday, as the scramble for pre-Pongal travel got desperate, these bus operators charged passengers up to three times the fares. What’s more, many operators shifted out of   and ordered passengers to board the buses from such far-off suburbs as   (for south-bound buses) and Poonamalle (for west-bound buses).
 
 “Though we had booked for Madurai from Koyambedu, we got a call at the last minute asking us to come to Perungalathur because of traffic snarls,” said D Abi, a resident of Anna Nagar. When questioned, the operator replied that they can cancel the trip if there were not willing to come to Perungalathur.
 
 In many cases, passengers paid a hefty amount to book their tickets as there was uncertainty over operation of government buses for Pongal. “Since there was no option, we paid Rs600 for a cab to reach Perungalathur,” said Abi.
 
 The operator refused to comment when TOI contacted the bus service.
 
 Some buses collected fare applicable to the end destination even from passengers who were to alight midway. So, if you have to travel to Villupuram on a bus to Madurai, you have to shell out Rs1,200. A normal journey to Villupuram costs around Rs300.
 
 The state transport department continued with the customary announcements, referring to non-existent sections in the Motor Vehicle Act, threatening action against private bus operators collecting excess fare.
 
 The government has been saying that private buses should collect only what they have been charging during non-festive seasons. When TOI earlier raised doubts over legal backing for this, as existing norms empower contract carriages to fix their fare, minister Vijayabaskar was dismissive.
 
 The state transport department, however, opened pre-booking counters on Friday morning. They were closed in the wake of the transport workers’ strike that ended on Thursday. The department opened 30 such counters at Koyambedu, Poonamalle and Tambaram, where long queues were visible till late Friday evening. The government has also set up temporary bus stands at Anna Nagar, Poonamallee,   and Saidapet, besides   bus terminal. Special buses would depart from these bus stands on January 11, 12 and 13. The government will operate 27,000 special buses during the second week of January.
 
 
