CHENNAI: The absence of an elected council governing the city corporation's affairs has come to the surface in terms of the local body's maintenance of key civic infrastructure. 

 For instance, the park on  , which was one of the best-maintained facilities in the city in 2016, is now a picture of neglect. Uncleared trash welcomes visitors to the park whose urinals and toilets have run out of water and so are kept under lock.
 
 "The park has been in a pathetic condition for more than 12 months now. There are no supervisors to maintain the park's lawns and water the trees," said  , a resident of New Colony, Chetpet.
 
 George, who is a regular user of the park and is a member of the Haddows Road Park Users' Association, said that the kids' play equipment was damaged. When TOI visited the spot, besides the uncleared trash, bulbs meant to illuminate the walkway around the park were found either missing or broken. Work on a pebble pathway had been abandoned midway with bags of cement lying unused at the site.
 
 "The park's maintenance contract has ended. We have brought these issues to the notice of corporation officials starting with the ward engineer and zonal officials, a few of whom even made site visits and saw for themselves the issues. We had even written to the commissioner but there has been no response," said  , a resident of the Haddows Road neighbourhood.
 
 A man in his 40s, identifying himself as Shanmugham, holds the keys to the park. "I have not been paid for the last three months (since the contract ended). I do sweep the park but nobody from the corporation comes to clear the trash," he said. Located in an affluent neighbourhood, the park attracts hundreds of visitors daily. Over the years, the park has attracted significant investment from the state government towards its upkeep, including the Rs 40 lakh spent towards renovation in 2005 under the   government. Jayalalithaa had also inaugurated a tiled resting hall constructed in the park during her tenure as chief minister in 2012.
 
  TOI contacted corporation officials for comment. "We will address the situation at once. It may have been a gap in maintenance over the last couple of days," said a zonal official. The officer added that the park's maintenance will soon be handed over to  , which expressed interest in its upkeep. "The contract terms have been agreed. They now need to be sanctioned by the special officer's council," the official said. 
 
 
