NEW DELHI: More than 30 years after  , files related to it have been deemed sensitive by the government and upheld by the   ( ).

 In response to an   plea seeking details of the military operation, the CIC accepted the Army's contention that disclosure of information could be detrimental to the nation's security.
 
 In his order, information commissioner Divya Prakash Sinha said the commission "concedes with the view that disclosure of information will be primarily prejudicial to internal security of the nation and can be a potential cause for incitement of offences of varied nature".
 
 He added, "Disclosure of the relevant records is not prudent at a time when the nation is rife with instances of invariable intolerance amongst communities."
 
 Sinha's order took into account the written submission of the central public information officer (CPIO) of the defence ministry (Army), who contended that "disclosure of these records will have severe implication for the integrity of the state in as much as the operation was launched essentially to safeguard the integrity of the nation from separatist elements".
 
 The CPIO further said, "Subversive elements related to the separatist movement in affected areas still remain active in India and abroad. It also means that disclosure of this information at any point in today's time will invariably enable anti-national elements and external agencies to rejuvenate separatist designs while drawing inspiration in the name of the terrorists who were killed during the operation."
 
 Citing the attack on Lt Gen KS Brar (retd), who has Z-plus security, the CPIO said that "even after 28 years", Brar was assaulted in October 2012 "not just in India but also in London only because the officer was involved in the conduct of Operation Bluestar and it was known in public domain". Similarly, Gen A S Vaidya, the then chief of Army staff, was assassinated in 1986.
 
 The viral nature of social media and its implications were also highlighted by the Army, which said misinterpretation and speculation was feared.
 
 Agreeing with the Army's submission, Sinha ruled that the commission didn't find merit in the appellant's argument that the information was no longer sensitive as it was over 30 years old.
 
