KOCHI: TED talks and conferences have always had a reputation of being something of an alternate reality, but this time it did make use of a slew of interactive technologies, including virtual reality. Thanks to Anubha Sinha, the lady behind the Pulimurugan 3D version. She was one of the speakers at TEDx Subhash Park, an independently organized TED event held on Saturday at SCMS College, Kalamassery, where she delivered an insightful lecture on the decline of women in the computing workforce. 

 But what made her presentation different from others is the fact that she used 3D VR technologies to highlight the issues, which gave the audience an immersive experience.
 
 "According to various studies, the number of women in computing will decline to 22% from 24% by 2025. The gender gap in computing industry is getting worse these days," said Anubha with the help of 3D images and illustrations. Meanwhile, it was the talk by polio survivor Madathinakath Johnson, also known as the  , that literally moved the audience. Six months after his birth he was infected with polio. The physical frame of this 49 - year - old is not bigger than that of a toddler. However, that didn't deter him from contemplating ways to tackle the looming energy crisis and ways to preserve our environment.
 
 "If every household across the globe replaces traditional bulbs with energy efficient LEDs, then everyone can save twice on their annual electricity cost and energy, said Johnson, recipient of an Energy Conservation Society award in 2008. "I am also waiting for the day when the whole world will embrace the solar energy," he added.
 
 Despite all the odds, he has carved a niche of his own as an entrepreneur by manufacturing table lamps, solar panels, LED bulbs, step-up transformers and electronic chokes. "I have no formal education. My uncle, who realized my inclination towards light and electronics motivated me and provided the financial assistance to open a manufacturing unit. I have no assistive devices or technology to help me, only a sense of dignity and belief in self-worth," said Johnson, who has turned his house in Peruvannamuzhi into a manufacturing unit. He said that the products made in his unit are now available in more than 50 electronic shops across  .
 
 Regarding his success mantra, Johnson said that it is his deep passion towards work and life that helped him brave all the odds. 
 
 
