BHOPAL:  , whose name struck terror in the   in the Seventies, campaigned for   on Wednesday in Kolaras where bypolls are due on February 24. The last time he turned out for BJP was in the 2014 Lok Sabha polls.

 Now 72, he still sports a handlebar moustache, and hasn’t lost his swagger or the glare that once froze people’s blood. He speaks quietly, with the assurance of a man used to being heard and obeyed.
 
 “I have no forms for you to fill up and don’t aspire to get a job. All I am saying is that if the government is doing us justice, then our community should stand with the government and vote for it,” he told members of the Parihar community in Rajauda village on Wednesday.
 
 “Chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan has given us a lot of respect and listens to our concerns. They are talking about Padmavati but there was a bigger ‘jauhar’ committed by Manimala, the queen of Chanderi. I know this government will pay rich tributes to queen Manimala. She was from this region and belonged to our community,” the ex-bandit said. “And not just for the coming bypolls, when the assembly elections are held but six months later, our community should vote for BJP, no matter what happens,” he added.
 
 Malkhan, who loves being addressed to as “Dadda”, hails from Bilav village in Bhind district. In the Seventies and early Eighties, when dreaded dacoits like Mohar Singh, Balwant Singh Tomar, Mann Singh and Phoolan Devi prowled the Chambal,   was the most feared of them all. He had 185 cases of murders, kidnapping and dacoity registered against him by the time he surrendered to then chief minister Arjun Singh in 1982. 
 
 Today, he resents being called a dacoit. “We were ‘baagis’ (rebels), who did not approve of the injustice being done to us and wanted to set things right,” he told reporters.
 
 He took to the gun after some people grabbed land belonging to the village temple, he says. Malkhan led a band of 40 for 12 years, and after his surrender settled down at Aron near Guna. In the ’90s, he contested the assembly elections as a Samajwadi Party candidate from Karera in Shivpuri district. And in 2014 Lok Sabha elections, he canvassed for BJP candidate Bhagirath Prasad in Bhind. Last year, he joined Ajit Singh’s RLD before the Uttar Pradesh elections but says he is back to support BJP.
 
 
