MUMBAI: In an official statement sent by the International Cricket Council ( ) on the ball-tampering episode at Newlands, Cape Town, the game’s governing body has mentioned that its chief executive David Richardson laid the charge against Australia captain Steve Smith that eventually led to the latter being handed a one-match ban and 100% fine of the match fee.

 
 
 
 
 While the ban and the fine will be questioned in days to come, given the seriousness of the offence, what comes across as more surprising is Richardson laying the charge against Smith and not match-referee Andy Pycroft or field-umpires Nigel Llong and Richard Illingworth.
 
 When asked categorically for reasons behind such a move, ICC’s communications head wrote back saying: “David laid the charge because of the serious nature of it and he wanted to show how seriously the ICC takes this behaviour. The match officials were very supportive of this”.
 
 
 ALSO READ: 
 
 
 
 However, there was no reply to a specific question from TOI that read: Did the on-field umpires / match referee / either or both the cricket boards lay a charge of  ? ICC’s own regulations underline that any of these individuals or organisations can lay the charge.
 
 In March 2017, when Australia and particularly Steven Smith suffered the ‘brain freeze’ moment in Bengaluru, Nigel Llong – the same umpire back then – had not submitted any report after the Test match, despite Australia’s own admission in the DRS controversy. Peter Handscomb, Smith’s batting partner, had taken the blame on himself and said he suggested to Smith about the help from the dressing room.
 
 
 
 
 
 The ICC can take some serious steps to enquire why Llong did not submit a report back then.
 
 The ICC’s highly questionable demerit points system in adjudicating the code of conduct – one that put a sanction of two suspension points with immediate effect and two demerit points added to his record – is now one that is bound to come under serious examination. The weekend’s events at Cape Town has once again proved how the system is completely futile. “How does it help if you keep accumulating points against an offending player and the ban comes after two years or so, when the relevance may cease to matter?” say sources unconvinced about the system.
 
 To make matters worse, in a case like Saturday’s where the offence was as serious as it could get, the cricketer committing that offence has only been asked to let go of 75% of the match fee and nothing more. The three demerit points added to Cameron Bancroft’s kitty don’t mean a thing as of today.
 
 
