NEW DELHI: The iconic   may be located on an arterial road, but the footfall at the monument is way below that of   sites. Now, a comprehensive redevelopment plan has been prepared to awaken public interest. 

 Prepared by   in collaboration with Archaeological Survey of India, the project aims to revitalise the area and introduce a large number of tourist amenities, parking facilities and ticket counters, and a new amphitheatre near the lake area apart from rejuvenating the lake itself. 
 
 NBCC adopted it under the culture ministry’s ‘adopt a monument’ scheme announced last year. While the conservation part would continue to be ASI’s job, NBCC would develop the area around the monument. 
 
 “The project will be partially funded by NBCC and remaining by ASI from their budgetary provisions. The entire 23 acres of land outside the monument, including the constructed facilities, will be operated and maintained by the fund generated from the use of these,” said an official.
 
 Work has been divided into three phases. Under Phase I, a dedicated parking is being developed keeping in mind the requirements for tourists and travellers coming to the monument. The parking area comprises a cemented surface parking, dedicated bus terminal, dedicated two-wheeler and four-wheeler parking, taxi point and a covered walkway leading up to ticketing and security block. Also included are toilets for drivers and staff, and a fully lit parking. Another aspect of the plan is a new entry gate to Purana Qila. 
 
 “The entry has been designed to regulate flow of tourists, who would now pass through the ticketing and security block to enter the monument. Those who wish to visit only the lakeside may proceed towards it outside the ticketing block,” said an official. 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 A new ticketing and security block is also being designed keeping in mind the surrounding area. The use of random rubble for the facade has been proposed. “This ensures the building seamlessly blends into the larger monument with minimal disruption. The building has been designed to provide easy ticketing facilities as well as cash dispensing and medical facilities in case of emergencies,” an official said.
 
 Lighting up the entire outer wall has also been proposed. Under Phase I, the plan is to light up the part of the wall visible from Mathura Road. 
 
 In Phase II, work on the lakeside would be taken up as the lake is considered to be the   of the monument. The first job would be to rejuvenate the lake so that boating could restart. A consultant has been brought in for this. 
 
 Revival plan includes desilting, treatment of lake bed with membrane so that it holds water, filling of the lake with storm or rainwater etc. In addition, a lakeside amphitheatre has been proposed. 
 
 “The idea is to make the space conducive for public cultural performances with the monument as backdrop. These performances may be ticketed or kept open,” said an official. 
 
 Under Phase III, a tourist amenities block has been proposed to house a food court. This block would also house a souvenir and handicrafts shop. 
 
 
