SHIMLA: Eight people were killed and 20 others injured when a Himachal Road Transport Corporation (HRTC) fell into 300 feet deep gorge at   near   on   road in Shimla on Friday morning. Eyewitnesses said that the driver, Rajeev Kumar, was driving rashly, because of which the bus skidded off the road and fell into the gorge at around 8.15 am.

 The bus was on its way to Nawar Tikker from Shimla. The driver was among those killed while the conductor survived with injuries. A magisterial probe has been ordered to find out the reasons leading to the accident.
 
 Police and local residents rescued the survivors and shifted them to Theog hospital. Of those killed, six people died on the spot while two people succumbed to their injuries in hospital later. Some of the survivors are seriously injured and have been shifted to the Indira Gandhi Medical College and Hospital at Shimla.
 
 Besides the driver, those who died in the accident have been identified as Mahinder Chauhan of Thana Tikker, Sunil Sharma of Basmol village, Tula Ram of Daroti village, Rohni of Padara village of Kotkhai tehsil, Motu of Jais village, Satya of Rohni village.
 
 Transport Minister Govind Singh Thakur said that the medical expenses of the injured persons would be borne by transport department. BJP MLA from Jubbal-Kotkhai, Narender Bragta, who had reached the accident spot, said the government has provided Rs 4 lakh as relief to the families of those killed. Bragta added that there is a need to set up a trauma centre in upper Shimla and that he has raised the issue with Union health minister J P Nadda.
 
 The district administration has provided Rs 15,000 and state road transport corporation Rs 10,000 to the family members of each of the deceased as immediate relief.
 
 This is the fourth serious accident in the state in the past month. On May 13, 14 people were killed and 11 others were injured in two separate road accidents in Sirmaur and Shimla districts. Then on May 19, 20 tourists from Rajkot in   were injured, six of them seriously, while on their way to Manali from Shimla when the bus they were travelling in met with an accident near Bhagas in Bilaspur.
 
 
