MALAPPURAM: The   on the working committee report presented at the ongoing state conference of   (CPI) at   pointed out that the performance of the Left government in the state was not up to the mark. The delegates, who strongly criticised the government during the discussion, said people's expectations about the government were high, but it failed to deliver on its promises. 

 It is learnt that the party members expressed dissatisfaction over the land distribution policy of the government, technical hurdles faced by the Life Mission housing project and the inordinate delay in the land document distribution in the state. They also said that public distribution system in the state was not effective. The conference delegates have unanimously demanded an intervention from the part of government to resolve the technical issues related to the Life Mission housing project as there were too many complaints from the part of beneficiaries of the project. 
 
 It is learnt that the delegates have strongly criticised the party leaders for the leakage of a report, which triggered debates over the various allegations against senior leader of the party K E Ismail.
 
 The party conference has decided to expand its activities in state through increasing influence of party among women, dalits, tribespeople, youths and students. The party has recorded an increase in membership during the past one-year period. The total number of members increased from 1,24,829 in 2016 to 1,33,410 in 2017. The party has decided to strengthen the activities of   organisation under it. It will also form an action plan to effectively intervene in social issues.
 
 The election to the 107-member state council would be held on Sunday. Kanam   is likely to be re-elected as the new state secretary of the party.
 
  Resolution passed against Athirapilly project: In a resolution passed at the ongoing state conference, CPI has demanded the state government to desist from implementing the proposed Athirappilly hydro-electric power project. 
 
 
