CHANDIGARH: Three air warriors from the   station were posthumously conferred gallantary awards for their bravery and making the extreme sacrifice.

 Corporal  , 31, got the country's highest peacetime gallantry award,  , while Sergeant K  , 33, and Corporal  , 31, were awarded Shaurya Chakra.
 
 Nirala is also the first air warrior to get the highest peacetime award for gallantry.
 
 They were all posted at 12 Wing and laid down their lives while fighting terrorists at   in Jammu and Kashmir in October and November last year during their attachment with Army.
 
 
 
 
 These three members of the Garud force were sent to Jammu and Kashmir for gaining experience in counter-insurgency operations. Their families were based at Chandigarh when they died during counter-insurgency operations. It is perhaps the first time that personnel posted at Chandigarh air force station have been conferred such a large number of gallantry awards. The main role of Garuda force is to protect the airbases in the event of any terrorist attack and carry out search and rescue operations.
 
 
 
 A Garud commando, Nirala was attached with Army’s Rashtriya Rifles (RR) Battalion in Chanderger village of Bandipora district in J&K. On November 18, 2017, a team of Garuda force and RR battalion had launched an offensive attack on a house where the suspected terrorists were hiding. Terrorists hiding in the house lobbed grenades at the troops. Nirala, disregarding personal safety, retaliated with effective lethal fire and gunned down two category ‘A’ terrorists and injured two others. In this violent exchange of fire, Nirala was hit by a volley of small arms fire. Despite being critically injured, he continued retaliatory fire. He succumbed to fatal gunshot wounds received in the fierce encounter, which resulted in the killing of all six terrorists.
 
 
 
 
 During a counter-insurgency operation on October 11, 2017, at Bandipora, a group of 5-6 terrorists charged out of their hiding place firing automatic weapons and grenades directly towards the position held by Milind. He retaliated by firing back at the terrorists and pinned them down with his accurate fire. However, he was hit bullets and shrapnel. He continued to hold his position and cut off the escape route of the terrorists.
 
 In the close quarter fight, Milind shot one terrorist and injured another. However, due to dense and persistent firing by the surviving terrorists, he was hit by bullets and was critically injured.
 
 He was evacuated to 92 Base Hospital, where he succumbed to his injuries.
 
 
 
 
 During his deployment with army in Bandipora, he was part of army team that had laid a cordon during the search operation for the terrorist on the outskirts of Hajin village. During the operation, 5-6 six terrorists charged out of their hideout, firing from their automatic weapons and lobbing grenades directly towards the position of Corporal Nayan. He was quick to retaliate with heavy and accurate fire, thereby containing the terrorists and preventing their escape. The terrorists directed massive fire towards his position due to which he was hit by a volley of bullets. He killed one terrorist and injured another. His injuries proved to be fatal.
 
