NEW DELHI: Even as the BJP-ruled states of Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh on Friday said they would continue their ban on 'Padmaavat' despite the Censor Board's nod, the   government said it would not stop the film's release in Uttar Pradesh. The Vasundhara Raje-led Rajasthan government had already said that theatres in the state would not screen the film.

 The Deepika Padukone-starrer is slated for release on January 25.
 
 Large-scale protests and violence by fringe outfits, led by the  , for allegedly "distorting Rajput history", had stopped the movie's release.
 
 Highly-placed sources in the UP government said the film won't be banned in the state after the modifications and changes in the film on the CBFC's directions. "Now that the filmmaker has incorporated the changes suggested by the Censor Board, I see no reason why the release of the film should be stopped," a top government official told TOI on Friday. 
 
 CM Vijay Rupani, however, said the ban — imposed ahead of assembly elections citing law and order concerns — on the release of  's film, would continue in Gujarat. "We had banned the film's release before polls, and that order still stays. We have not revoked it, hence there is no question of the film being released in the state," he said.
 
 Taking a similar line as his Gujarat counterpart, Madhya Pradesh chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan indicated that the ban would continue. Asked if the state would persist with the ban, the CM gave a cryptic reply: "Jo kaha tha, woh hoga (What I said, will happen)." 
 
 Officials of the CM secretariat told TOI in Bhopal that the ban is on. "The CM had assured the   that he would ban the movie if sentiments were hurt. Now, his statement that he will abide by his commitment clearly indicates that ban on the movie will continue until there is a specific decision taken by the Centre or judiciary," said an official.
 
 With elections barely 10 months away, the CM, it seems, can't afford to ignore the sentiment of 1 crore Rajputs of MP.
 
 On November 20, after a delegation of Rajputs called on him, Chouhan had said ' ', as it was then called, won't be screened in MP unless "corrections are made as per public demand". "A film that distorts historical facts will never be tolerated and it can never be screened in Madhya Pradesh," he had said, adding that the government would take the opinion of the Rajput Samaj on the movie before taking any decision.
 
 BJP's ally JDU is yet to take a call on the release of the film in Bihar. CM Nitish Kumar had earlier said Bhansali should address the problems of the people concerned.
 
