JOHANNESBURG: The Wanderers Stadium, official name to South Africa’s quite intimidating Bullring in central Johannesburg, has tied up with DJ Chrizz Beatz in a strategic move to ensure that the venue’s experience stays at the forefront of the cricket fans’ minds at all times.

 
 ALSO READ: 
 
 
 Hip hop is Beatz’ thing and he likes to belt out things like “Mama said knock you out.” Just the kind of thing young men like Kagiso Rabada and Lungi Ngidi would love listening to before walking out with the new ball.
 
 ALSO READ: 
 
 Vernon Philander to start, Rabada from the other end, Ngidi at first change, followed by Morne Morkel... the hosts have more or less decided they won’t need Keshav Maharaj on this occasion. Instead, packing the eleven with an extra batsman and unleashing this menacing pace attack is what they have in mind. Except, that’s only half the story as far as this third Test between India and South Africa, beginning January 24 here, is concerned.
 
 Wanderers is not South Africa’s best bet to win a Test match. India will know it best given their spectacular 123-run win here in December 2006 that came riding on a first innings five-wicket haul from S Sreesanth or the drawn match in December 2013, when Cheteshwar Pujara’s second innings 153 almost won them the game.
 
 Australia and England have enjoyed great success here in the recent past and the hosts don’t really have the kind of memories at the Wanderers the way they do at Centurion, which hosted the second Test of this series. India can seek motivation from their past record with pride alone at stake as they look to seek consolation here while South Africa will look to change their Wanderers experience for the better and sweep the series.
 
 To bolster themselves against the four-man pace attack that’s only been getting more lethal with each session, India have decided to include   in the eleven. The batsman has been hitting the ball impressively in the nets and is all set to clinch his berth in a side.
 
 Who will make way for Rahane is uncertain yet and that is precisely where India’s next selection headache begins. The question before the team is if they will include Rahane - which they should - at the cost of dropping a batsman from the eleven or doing away with the fifth bowler.
 
 India’s attack has featured impressively so far in South Africa and anything less than five bowlers will only lead to extra work for the pacers. Ishant Sharma and Mohammad Shami bowled their hearts out at the Centurion on a track that had little to offer. With the Wanderers being a better prospect, the two will expect to get retained in the eleven and Bhuvneshwar Kumar, who bowled excellently in Cape Town but was benched at Centurion, can look to join them.
 
 With Jasprit Bumrah in the mix of things and Umesh Yadav in the ranks, India’s bowling attack has just the kind of variety needed here. The wicket here may have little for spinners and therefore dropping R Ashwin for this Test is not something the team management won’t be thinking about, except his ability to contribute with the bat.
 
