CHANDIGARH: Chief minister   in Siswan of   turned into a political issue on Tuesday with   (AAP) alleging that the deal has preceded the state government's plans to let the   Land Preservation Act (PLPA) notification lapse in the area and the government producing a copy of the official notification to deny it.

 Leader of the opposition   made a complaint to chief secretary Karan Avtar Singh demanding a transparent and impartial inquiry at the earliest "to find out how many politicians, bureaucrats or other powerful people around the chief minister had purchased such lands around Chandigarh".
 
 Interestingly, Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal's Sukhvilas Resort is located around 5 kilometers from the area, which is a stone's throw away from Chandigarh.
 
 "It's a serious issue of conflict of interest and breach of oath of office and secrecy by Amarinder," alleged the AAP leader. Amarinder has bought 6 acres of land at village Palanpur in Siswan of Mohali district on January 3.
 
 "There are reports that Punjab Government is likely to let the PLPA notification pertaining to villages surrounding Chandigarh lapse after the February 3. In other words it would mean a windfall for land sharks, who have bought large chunks of land in this ecologically fragile area of   foothills, who were barred from any sort of construction due to the said PLPA of 1900," alleged Khaira.
 
 On the other hand, Punjab government has dismissed the allegations by AAP leader Sukhpal Singh Khaira. Chief minister's media advisor   said the land purchased by Captain Amarinder was not in  , as was being projected, but in Siswan, which was denotified by the erstwhile SAD-BJP government under the PLPA in 2011. 
 
 Thukral pointed out that the plot stopped being covered under PLPA since it was denotified on Aug 24, 2011, by then financial commissioner and secretary department of forests & wildlife preservation. Khaira should have done his homework and got his facts right before resorting to wild allegations, said Thukral.
 
 "Khaira was, as usual, engaging in brazenly unfounded and spiteful personal attacks on the chief minister by resorting to blatant falsehoods," said Thukral, adding that the allegations of conflict of interest and breach of oath of office and secrecy, made by the AAP leader, smacked of cheap and dirty politicking. 
 
 Two reports by Justice Kuldip Singh tribunal set up by the Punjab and Haryana high court to go into land deals of politicians and bureaucrats around Chandigarh, had earlier looked into the issue of estimated more than 60 VIPs possessing government land in violation of the periphery and forest Acts which prohibit the sale of village common land and forest land.
 
 
