VADODARA: The stand-off between agitated parents and private schools in the city over fees is turning ugly with each passing day. 

 On Saturday, two city-based schools witnessed ruckus as school managements withheld results of some students over non-payment of fees while another private school issued missive suspending a student. 
 
 At Manjalpur-based Ambe Vidyalaya large number of parents gathered outside the school premises alleging that the school was withholding the results of their wards demanding payment of fees. 
 
 Even as agitated parents sought a meeting with principal of the school, the school management called the police which further aggravated the matter. The ruckus continued for a couple of hours after which the school shared the results of the rest of the students. 
 
 The Prince Ashokraje Gaekwad School, too witnessed a similar ruckus as parents insisted that results of their wards be shared while the school management withheld results of those wards whose parents had not paid the complete fees for the current academic year. 
 
 Later, even as the school agreed to share results of the students, it said it will also issue leaving certificates of such students along with the results. It was only after office-bearers of the   rushed to the spot that the school agreed not to issue leaving certificates. But the dead-lock between the parents and the school management is expected to continue in the coming days as the school has given March 31 as the deadline to all the parents for submitting the pending fees. Meanwhile, management of the   (CBSE) located on Sama-Savli Road took the extreme step of suspending a girl student. 
 
 In a letter issued to a parent of standard six student, the school management stated that the parent was issued reminders but had failed to pay the provisional fees of his ward. 
 
 The letter states that the admission will remain suspended with immediate effect till the time dues of the student for academic year 2017-18 and provisional fees for 2018-19 is paid. 
 
 Aggrieved by the situation, while some parents have started sending emails to Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani alleging that state education minister   has completely failed in implementing the fee regulation act, others have started sending personal messages to the minister questioning the stand he has taken in support of the “big school mafia”. 
 
 
