NAINITAL: Rakjumar Thukral,   from the Rudrapur assembly constituency in   district was booked by police on Sunday after he was caught on camera abusing and assaulting two Dalit women. The incident happened on Friday when the MLA was sorting out a dispute between two families of his area. According to sources, the legislator lost his cool during the mediation and started beating up a youth belonging to one of the families. When his mother and sisters tried to intervene, the MLA allegedly started abusing them using caste-specific words and roughing them up as well.
 
  On the basis of a complaint filed by the victims, a case was lodged against Thukral under sections 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt), 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation) of the IPC as well as under the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. Incidentally, a day earlier, when the video of the MLA’s aggression went viral, the CM’s office had asked the senior superintendent of police (SSP) of the district to submit a report on the matter.
  
  Sadanand Date, SSP, Udham Singh Nagar, told TOI that they have “started an investigation in the matter and will be probing all aspects thoroughly." The matter pertained to a 16-year-old girl from Shiv nagar colony area of the city reportedly eloping with a 17-year-old boy from Indira Colony. However, both were traced by their family members who took them to the MLA for mediation.
  
  Thukral, when contacted, denied that he had initiated any violence. “A dispute had been going on since the past few days regarding the elopement of the girl with the boy. Both the sides came to my house for a panchayat meeting in order to sort out the matter peacefully. I took more than one and half hours to pacify them considering the sensitive nature of the matter. After a while, they left the meeting but started fighting outside my house. I had to intervene in order to prevent any unfortunate incident."
  
  Meanwhile, the girl after a medical examination was handed over to her family while the boy was sent to a rehabilitation centre.
