HYDERABAD:   officer K  's alleged assets are in the name of his brother-in-law Srinivas Reddy, who according to Anti-Corruption Bureau ( ) investigators is the main ‘benami’ of the tainted official.

 Investigators grilling Purushottam Reddy said about 75% of Purushottam Reddy’s properties were in the name of Srinivas Reddy and the rest in the name of his mother-inlaw, Sudheshna. The house at Sagar Society, where Purushottam Reddy lives, too is in his wife Vijaya Reddy’s name. “Not a single property is in Purushottam Reddy’s name,” an ACB official said.
 
  
 According to ACB officials, Purushottam Reddy had invested about ₹7 crore of the ill-gotten money in the real estate ventures of another accused, A Yadava Reddy, managing director of Sri Sai Hari Hara Estates Pvt Ltd, through his main benami, Srinivas Reddy. Similarly, the official, through Srinivas Reddy, invested about ₹30 crore in the Golden Ridge Infra villas development venture of co-accused, G Nishant Reddy, at Manchirevula.
 
 ACB sleuths have also found that Purushothan Reddy, again through Srinivas Reddy, had invested ₹1.47 crore for purchase of a villa at  . “As a benami, Srinivas Reddy also purchased a four-bedroom flat in the apartment complex built by a famous real estate group at Madhapur by paying about 60% less than the sale price. We are finding out how they managed to get the deal by writing to the real estate firm as they sold the flat at ₹2,500 per square feet (sft) whereas other buyers got it for ₹65,000 per sft,” an ACB official said.
 
 ACB sleuths also found that Purushottam Reddy had not just used Srinivas Reddy as the main benami, but also ensured that not all the properties got registered on the latter’s name. For several investments, after Srinivas Reddy paid the amount, only sale agreements were made, but the ownership transfer has not been registered to evade ACB or income tax (I-T) surveillance.
 
 After he was arrested a few days ago, Srinivas Reddy, who pursued higher education in the US, told ACB sleuths that he went on a pilgrimage to Kurnool district of Andhra Pradesh and slept on the premises of temples, surviving on ‘prasadam’.
 
 ACB sleuths filed a petition seeking his custody. If granted custody, ACB will interrogate, Purushottam Reddy and Srinivas Reddy simultaneously. “In 2009, when Purushottam was arrested in the first DA case, Srinivas Reddy was not booked under the Benami Act. This time we have booked Srinivas Reddy and even arrested him,” an investigator said.
 
 
