NEW DELHI: The Congress today won the Ampati assembly poll in Meghalaya, making it likely it will stake claim to form the government in the northeastern state, à la what happened after the Karnataka assembly elections.

 
 With the Ampati win, the Congress has 21 members in the 60-member assembly - making it the single largest party in the assembly- while nearest rival the National People's Party ( ) has 20 members. After the Karnataka assembly results, the governor there first invited the BJP - the single largest party in the Assembly - to form the government. Similarly, the Congress too will stake claim in Meghalaya, as it has earlier said it would.
 
 In results announced today, Congress candidate   beat her nearest rival the National People's Party's (NPP) C G Momin, in the assembly bypoll in Ampati, reported ANI news agency. Election Commission officials said the voting percentage in Ampati bypoll on Monday was 90.42 per cent. 
 
 The seat fell vacant after Shira's father and Congress leader  , who won from two seats in the assembly elections, vacated the seat. 
 
 Earlier as well, the Congress with 21 seats had become the single largest party in the assembly election in February. NPP was a close second with 19 seats. However, at the time, the Congress lost one seat when Mukul Sangma gave up his seat and NPP gained a seat after winning the Williamnagar seat - election to which had been countermanded earlier after NCP candidate Jonathone Sangma was killed in a rebel attack. 
 
 This brought both parties to a seat tally of 20, which they hoped to cross with a win at Ampati today. The Congress crossed that number today.
 
 
 
 
 A day after Karnataka governor Vajubhai Vala invited the BJP, the single-largest party, to form a government in the state, Opposition parties are demanding that the governors of four other states — Goa, Bihar, Meghalaya and Manipur — should invite them to stake claim to the government as they were the single-largest parties in last assembly polls held in these states.
 
 While the Congress announced it will be meeting Goa governor Mridula Sinha to ask him to invite the party to stake claim to the government, RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav also asked the Bihar governor Satya Pal Malik to dissolve the assembly and invite his party to form a government in the state. Opposition parties in two more states staked claim to form the government- former Manipur CM Okram Ibobi Singh and former Meghalaya CM Sangma.
 
 In Goa's 2017 assembly election, Congress was the single-largest party with 21 seats in the 40-seat assembly, However, it was the BJP through a post-poll alliance that ended up forming the government. In Bihar, the RJD was the single-largest party with 80 seats in the 243-seat assembly in the 2015 assembly election, but it ended up in the opposition.
 
 
