, Delhi

 
  Tritha Sinha,  
 
 
  Starting a women band was incidental. The sound and look of our band is definitely inspired by artistes who have dared to be different – Bjork, Massive Attack, Portishead, Madonna and Parvati Baul. We experiment with sound and look from various genres and that’s why we call ourselves a multi-genre outfit.
 
 
  We were best friends from school in Kolkata, so the bonding started early. Our performances are mostly collaborative across fields of theatre, music, poetry, spoken word, dance and visual graphics. 
 
 
  We cover issues of domestic violence, sexual abuse, female infanticide, honour killings etc. The band has been booked by several NGOs and initiatives who work with such issues. We do not restrict ourselves to only certain performance spaces, and through this we hope to reach out to as many women as we possibly can.
 
 
 By providing a platform where women can express themselves, a certain degree of empowerment is hoped to be achieved. We also conduct workshops – teaching music in healing and meditation; taking theatre-in-education.
 
 
 : Equanimity – it treats men and women as equals. It encourages a society free from patriarchy. Our band’s name is an abbreviated version of ‘Stop Patriarchy and Choose Equality’.
 
 
 , Delhi
 
 
 : Cheyyrian Bark, Banu Jini, Minam Tekseng, Mithy Tatak
 
 
 : Music inspires us. We like to rock the stereotypes and are known as one of the most rebellious all-female band in the country.
 
 
  Travel.
 
 
 : Some of our songs have feminist themes and lyrics. We hope that it gives strength to our sisters out there.
 
 
 : Women are already so strong – giving birth and sustaining the human race on this planet is not a joke. Through our songs, we remind them that they can do anything, achieve anything.
 
 
 : Feminism means equal rights, equal opportunity, equal treatment for both sexes. 
 
 
  
 
 
 , Nagaland
 
 
 : Mütsevelü (Mercy); Azine (Azi);   (Kuku);   (Lulu)
 
 
 : We tell stories through our songs. We are inspired by the people around us – both men and women, nature, life, our travels, experiences and interactions with parents, elders, fans and other artistes. We also look to social media and what other artistes are creating to keep up.
 
 
 : New music, books, films, fashion, make up, travel and food. Our current bonding factor is our nephew!
 
 
 : The songs that we sing are often about historic women – legendary for their beauty, strength, wisdom or the way they left their mark on simple daily routines. Our music talks about a time and place where women were revered and protected but not restricted or hidden away.
 
 
 : We need to believe in our own abilities more and stand up for each other more often. What we are doing itself is an act of empowerment – a band of girls from a remote part of the country who sing in a tribal dialect. Our music encourages us to take pride in our culture, understand common grounds across cultures and revel in our womanhood.
 
 
 Not about fighting for rights and space because we are women, but to ask for equal rights and opportunities as human beings – not male/female. There is some sort of negativity attached to the word “feminist” these days. Rather, we should focus on gender equality.
 
 
 , Bengaluru
 
 
  Rithika, Suvarna, Anagha, Vinaya
 
 
  ...can come from just about anything. We are inspired by nature, literature, what’s happening in society, and music.
 
 
 : Music. Also, love for good food and humour; we’re almost always tagging each other in memes online and cracking each other up.
 
 
  Our band makes a statement that women are just as capable to do anything. The best way to be empowered is to be more aware and flexible.
 
 
  In India, we witness a plurality of feminism – we have women from different backgrounds, different experiences. It should allow for differences within but we must stand united against the institution of patriarchy.
 
 
