BHOPAL: A trigger-happy husband allegedly took a student and guard hostage at gunpoint in a school in MP’s Bhind because his wife refused to drop her class and leave with him. He fired shots in the air as he walked out of campus, threatening a massacre, witnesses have told police.

 The shooter,  , is on the run with a .315 rifle and, by the looks of it, plenty of ammunition. He, too, is a teacher. Guns — even gunfire — are an everyday sight for the people of Bhind, a district in Chambal region with the largest number of licensed firearms (22,800), but the school shooting rattled them as well.
 
 Police said Kishan and his wife   have a strained relationship and are living separately for the last few months. On Saturday, Kishan landed up at Gata Middle School, where Aradhna teaches. It was 11am and the school was holding an exam. Aradhna was in a classroom when she saw her husband barge in, armed with a rifle and shouting for her. She tried to run but he grabbed her and demanded that she come with him, say police.
 
 Aradhna refused and fled to the teachers’ room where she locked herself in. Furious, Kishan allegedly tried to go after her but guard Nathuram Bothom blocked him, only to have the rifle barrel poking his chest. A Class IX student, Jaiveer Gurjar, bravely came forward to defend his teacher and told Kishan point-blank to “stop terrorizing the school”.
 
 In reply, Kishan allegedly placed the barrel on his chest and told him to step aside. The guard and student stood their ground. Frustrated, Kishan allegedly fired a few shots in the air and walked out, warning that he would return and “kill everyone”.
 
 “I was in the classroom when he stormed in, grabbed my wrist and tried to drag me along. I resisted and rushed into another room and bolted it from inside. He created a scene outside the room and took the guard and a student at gunpoint,” his wife Anuradha told mediapersons. Jaiveer said: “He was trying to take our teacher forcefully. When I objected and reminded him that it was a school, he pointed his gun at me.”
 
 Mehgaon police station in-charge Narendra Tripathi said that a case has been registered against Kishan on the basis of the statements of his wife, the guard and student. “It seems that there are differences between the husband and wife. We are investigating it and hope to nab him,” Tripathi told TOI.
 
 When the news spread in the region, some parents approached the school authorities and said that they won’t send their kids until security arrangements are made. 
 
