NEW DELHI: Chief minister   on Tuesday visited several markets and assured   that the government would move Supreme Court to seek relief for traders. This happened amid the   drive. 

 Kejriwal went to the Chandni Chowk, Hauz Khas E block, Defence Colony, Meharchand and Karol Bagh markets and met the traders. “We have written to the LG on this recently. There are some issues with the master plan and it should be resolved by the authorities concerned. We will move Supreme Court this week to halt the sealing drive,” said Kejriwal at Defence Colony market. 
 
 The drive had started on December 22 last year on the direction of a Supreme Court-appointed monitoring committee. So far, both north and south corporations have sealed over 500 units. “We have raised four points in the letter, and if these points are resolved then there will be no need for carrying out any sealing drive,” Kejriwal said. 
 
 Later, the   took to Twitter to slam BJP over the sealing drive. “Through sealing, BJP wants to ruin Delhi’s retail business to pave way for FDI in retail in Delhi,” he tweeted.
 
 Jagdish Gupta, general secretary of Defence Colony market association, said, “We have been trying to meet the monitoring committee, but they have refused to meet us. The market was sealed on no grounds and the traders are feeling helpless. We had filed a petition in the high court and the Supreme Court, but nothing happened.” 
 
 Ashok Sakhuja, president of Meharchand market association, said, “The market was given to us on freehold basis and the local bodies failed to approve the building plan on time which resulted in sealing. We are hopeful of some relief as the CM has assured us.” 
 
 Many traders also said that due to the sealing, many workers have left town. Many owners won’t be able to pay salaries as they have no income. 
 
 “We won’t be able to pay our employees after a month if the sealing drive doesn’t stop,” said Ajay Kumar, a trader in Meharchand market. 
 
 Manmohan Singh, general secretary of Hauz Khas E block market association, was disappointed. “There were hardly any traders in the market during the CM visit as the market remains shut on Tuesday. Had the CM inquired before visiting the market then we would have apprised him of our issues,” said Singh. 
 
 The three mayors, however, slammed Kejriwal for “politicising the issue”. “We had gone to the CM’s residence to hold a meeting. But he didn’t pay heed. He should meet all authorities concerned to find a way ahead instead of visiting markets,” said south mayor Kamaljeet Sehrawat.
 
 North mayor Preety Agarwal said the Delhi government has been sitting on a proposal to notify 351 roads and has said nothing about it even when the sealing drive is on.
 
