THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Kerala’s top ranking in NITI Aayog’s latest health index might have come handy for the ruling LDF to make a mockery of recent statements by various BJP leaders on state’s achievements in the healthcare sector. But the opposition UDF has now staked a larger claim to the recognition, saying the   report was based on progress made during its tenure.

 Health minister  , the other day, had said that the state’s top ranking in the index was a recognition for the progress made in the sector after the LDF came to power. Finance minister T M   on Sunday posted on his Facebook page that the ranking came as a fitting reply to the national-level ‘false campaigns’ against Kerala by the BJP.
 
 However, opposition leader   was quick enough to come out with a statement on Sunday, ridiculing the LDF for ‘coveting someone else’s child’. “The NITI Aayog report has 2014-15 as its base year and 2015-16 as its assessment year. The UDF was ruling the state during this period and not the LDF. The health minister’s claim is ridiculous,” he said.
 
 The health index report, prepared with the assistance of World Bank and the Union ministry of health and family welfare, is in fact a recognition for the previous  , said Chennithala. 
 
 “The state, where thousands died owing to fever epidemic last year, only relapsed during the successive LDF rule,” he said.
 
 Meanwhile, Isaac said in his Facebook post that the report came as a major blow to the BJP leaders, including Uttar Pradesh chief minister Yogi Adityanath, ‘who had been campaigning against Kerala, for political gains’. “The index has put Kerala on top and Uttar Pradesh at the bottom. It was four months ago that Adityanath called upon Kerala to emulate UP’s healthcare system,” Isaac said.
 
 Isaac also said that it was unfortunate that the Sangh Parivar leaders in the state were joining their national leaders to belittle Kerala’s achievements in ensuring social security to its citizens. 
 
 “The BJP, instead of campaigning against Kerala, has to strengthen primary and rural healthcare systems and find solutions to various other problems in party-ruled states like UP,” he added.
 
 
