The new year 2018 might not have begun on a very good note for Maharashtra, owing to the protests in parts of the state. But days like   remind us that all hope isn’t lost, after all.
What’s Up, Campus? identified a number of city-based students, who are campaigning for love, understanding and acceptance within their immediate communities. Their mediums might be varied, but they have a collective means and purpose —peace. Here’s to these young ambassadors of peace...
 
 
 
 As an LGBTQ student, it is common to face bias from those who don’t understand or have preconceived notions about us. I saw this as an opportunity to work for acceptance. I decided to start with my own college. I talk to my peers about my community and start a dialogue with them. I ask them to attend my open-mic sessions on LGBTQ issues so that they can get to know the community better. This is just the beginning, but so far, I have been receiving a positive response from people. Starting conversations is the key to doing away with ignorance.
 
 
 
 
 
 I play for an international football team that plays for peace in Pune. Sports is a great way to bring people of different backgrounds together. I use the platform to sensitise people about acceptance. A lot of foreign students face bias when here. India is a loving country and I want to use football to communicate as to how playing a sport together can establish peace. When people see us play together, they learn with taking a valuable lesson.
 
 
 
 The idea of ‘fair is beautiful’ is deep rooted in Indian psyche, which is why dark skin is often ridiculed. People often gave me tips to get ‘fairer’, but my parents’ support helped me rise above it all. I am now working towards changing this mindset. Through my Facebook page ‘Color Brave’, I convey the message that ‘dark is also beautiful’. I feel there is a great need to remove ‘colourism’ from our everyday lives. We need to think of our value far more than our skin colour.
 
 
 
 
 
 The man-animal conflict is on a rise with rising urbanisation. It is a sad sight to see both of them struggling for peaceful living. I therefore started working on a campaign called ‘Environmental Peace’. I started conducting awareness sessions with students. I also conduct nature walks and visits to ecologically-significant places which only help in their understanding. I think creating awareness by helping build a better ecosystem can only resolve conflict resulting to peace.
 
  
  
 
 
 As a medical student, I wanted to create awareness about taboos in society. These days, physical and sexual assault, unhealthy competition and emotional turmoil are on the rise. ‘Art based Therapy’ is a great way to identify one’s emotions. I also conduct sessions on positive self-talk, and dealing with good and bad touch differentiation with demonstrations of self-defence techniques. Creating a healthy, supporting and emotionally stable environment is need of the hour today and bridging the gap can help establish peace in our society.
 
 
 
 
 
 Said to be commemorated since 1985, January 12 is observed as National Youth Day every year.
 The occasion calls to mind the birth anniversary of Swami Vivekananda, one of the greatest social reformers and philosophers of India. 
 The aim of the observance is to encourage youth across the country to learn about the life, the ideals and philosophy of the thinker and 
 apply the same to their lives. 
 
