BENGALURU: Are  ,   going to vanish from  ? These features are missing from the proposed and   published in the Draft Revised   2031, leaving the 500-odd households of the area stunned.

 Members of the Citizens’ Welfare Association (CWA) of Richmond Town and Langford Town are worried that their locality may be left out of the development plans chalked out for Bengaluru, and 150 members have raised individual objections to the draft. The CWA collated them into one comprehensive document of objections and filed it with the Bangalore Development Authority (BDA) on Tuesday.
 
 The CWA said there are cartographic errors in the maps for Planning District 1 and 3. As many as 25 roads, including stretches of Richmond Road and Rhenius Street, in Shanthinagar, Richmond Road and Langford Town are missing from the maps. Thirteen of these are crossroads and lanes of Berlie Street in Shanthinagar. In another five instances, roads have been marked where none exist. 
 
 Four public spaces, including a playground, a park, a residence and an Anganwadi school are missing and have been shown as part of adjacent properties on the map.
 
 Ashima Chander, joint secretary of the association, said it was unacceptable for the town planning authority to make such fundamental mistakes.
 
 “Finding a number of roads missing is unacceptable, especially in the heart of the city. It makes you think of the kind of errors that might have been made across all the 42 Planning Districts. It is not as though we did some great technical analysis. We did consult experts, but what we essentially did was compare it with Google Maps, which is easily accessible. Another issue is the width of roads, which are listed as wider than they really are. For instance, Langford Road is shown to be 30metres wide, whereas it is barely 13metres. We know that more commercial activity is permitted on roads of a certain width, so this might open it up to more commercialization,” she pointed out.
 
 Residents are also protesting noise pollution and traffic congestion in their area, which is an education hub with 18 schools in the radius of a few kilometres. “It’s questionable how well-equipped the authorities are to resolve or propose solutions for better livability, when they are still making fundamental mistakes,” said Chander.
 
 All 150 objections were collated and ranked 1 to 20, then signed off on by more than 10 households for each point.
 
 TREAT HERITAGE SITES THE SAME
 
 The CWA is also demanding that the BDA recognize the heritage value of sites everywhere and not just in ‘heritage zones’, as proposed in the draft plan.
 
 “Heritage should not be restricted to zones. Sir Mirza Ismail Nagar is a neighbourhood with heritage significance. It houses a rich history, with remnants of past institutions and monuments. We want such places to be administered as per guidelines for heritage zones,” she said.
 
 
 
 
 BDA officials said they received nearly 13,100 suggestions/objections to its draft Revised Master Plan 2031 as of 8pm Tuesday, the last day of the exercise.
 
 “We received 4,222 objections on Tuesday and of these, 1,427 were emails. While we stopped accepting hard copy objections at 5.30pm, we are still getting email objections. We expect to receive another 200-300 emails till midnight,” said Thippeswamy NK, BDA town planning member.
 
 The BDA had received 8,869 suggestions/objections till Monday.
 
 
 
 
 Urban deprived communities of the city got together to file a collective objection to RMP 2031 in the light of the fact that they feel excluded from the urban planning process. They claimed that the tone of the document is ‘exclusionary’ as it alienates slum-dwellers, pourakarmikas, migrant workers, Adivasi community members and others, and the fact that it is in English reinforces this. 
 
 Stating that this excludes community members from filing objections, they said it violates the fundamental rights of citizens. “A remedy to this is to involve BBMP Ward Committees through the Bengaluru Metropolitan Planning Committee, as a democratic process of planning the city, which is also inclusive not just for the urban planning process, but also for urban governance, spatiality, demographics, and access to amenities and entitlements,” their petition stated. Several groups working for the welfare of the disadvantaged came forward to prepare the document.
 
 At least 15 organizations provided inputs to the document.
 
 
 
 
 Namma Bengaluru Foundation (NBF) on Tuesday submitted its objections to the BDA. It claims that RMP 2031 is a “voluminous document and its utility has been severely reduced due to various cartographic errors, inherent contradictions, invalid assumptions”.
 
 Sridhar Pabbisetty, CEO, Namma Bengaluru Foundation, said, “The most important issue with the proposed RMP 2031 is the role of BDA in usurping the mandate of the Municipal Planning Committee (MPC). As per Article 243 ZE of the Constitution of India and the Bengaluru Metropolitan Planning Committee Rules, 2013, it is the duty of the MPC to study the inputs provided by municipalities and accordingly prepare a master plan.”
 
 
