GURUGRAM: Putting into practice what he wants to preach, recently appointed   Yashpal Yadav this Monday began what promises to become his routine — cycling around a particular area of the city to find out, first-hand, civic problems of those areas, particularly in road infrastructure, while also setting an citizens about the importance of cycling — for environmental conservation, as well as an exercise.

 Over Monday and Tuesday, he visited the area around   in Old Gurugram, “I realised most roads in the old city do not have cycling tracks. In some areas, we have scope of widening the roads to develop cycling tracks,” said Yadav. He added he’ll draw up a plan to develop cycling tracks on all roads with his engineering wing.
 
 About how safe he felt while cycling, Yadav said, “I was competing with motor vehicles, which was obviously daunting. I do believe cyclists need some space on the road. MCG can work towards that by developing cycle lanes.” 
 
 In December 2017, a bunch of city business leaders had taken up a challenge — to go car free. Some of these men and women decided to cycle to and from work, to highlight problems faced by cyclists on city roads. Before that, erstwhile MCG commissioner T L Satyprakash had also tried to develop cycling tracks in the city, by tying up with private organisations for their corporate social responsibility funds. However, most of these tracks don’t exist today due to lack of maintenance. 
 
 Yadav believes cycling is the best way for him to identify local issues such as potholes in roads and lack of sanitation. “I decided to visit neighbourhoods on bicycle, not only because it gives me a better understanding of residents’ complaints, but also because given the city traffic, it takes almost the same time as in a car,” said Yadav.
 
 “Some people suggested we should repair the open air theatre in   near Sadar Bazar. This has been delegated to concerned officials,” said Yadav. 
 
 Similarly, he took up the delayed multilevel parking project in Sadar Bazar after experiencing the area’s congestion. He also convened a departmental meeting on Monday after noticing the potholes in Old Gurugram roads, where it was decided they will be repaired within three months.
 
 
