AHMEDABAD: The   has clarified that for 2018-19, students will have to pay   as demanded by their respective institutions, until the case pending before the   is decided, and that once the   sets the fees for a school, it will have to refund any excess collected with retrospective effect.

 Speaking to reporters, education minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama said that the government has moved the apex court seeking clarification and the apex court in its interim order has stated that the Fee Regulation Act will be applicable from the academic year 2017-18. 
 
 Chudasama said that the apex court has also made it clear that schools will be allowed to charge provisional fees until the fees are decided by fee regulatory committees set up following SC guidance.
 
 The apex court had in its February 1 order said that the fee regulatory committee should be headed by a retired high court judge. “We placed on record the issues faced by the state in appointing retired high court judges in all four zones, and based on the request the court allowed us to form committees headed by retired district judges if retired HC judges were not available,” said Chudasama.
 
 The minister said school managements have been asked to send a list of available retired HC judges to the chief justice of the   high court and the final decision on appointment of the head of the committee will be taken by the chief justice.
 
 Chudasama said that the government was asked to print a notification over the fee cap by Feburary28. He said that the caps, which were Rs 15000 for primary schools, Rs 25000 for secondary school and Rs 27000 for primary schools are being reviewed, and the report was to be submitted to the government by Thursday.
 
 Chudasama said that the apex court has also stated that the state level appellate authority for school fee regulation will also have two retired high court judges. The chief justice of Gujarat high court will appoint the second retired judge in the state level appellate authority.
 
 The government has clarified that the limits of Rs 15,000, Rs 25000 and Rs 27000 were just caps on fees. The cut off was to inform the schools that if they want to charge higher fees than these sums, they should approach the fee regulatory committee. “In no way, did the caps set the provisional fees meant to be charged by the schools,” said education secretary Sunaina Tomar.
 
 
