AHMEDABAD : An embarrassed state education department swung into action following the TOI report ‘Sita was abducted by Ram, says Class XII Gujarat textbook’ on Monday, which highlighted glaring factual errors in the HSC Sanskrit textbook.

 Gujarat education minister Bhupendra Chusadasama said an inquiry has been ordered into the ‘typographical bonafide mistake’. “The mistake in the textbook of the class XII general stream English medium Sanskrit textbook is corrected,” the minister tweeted.
 
 A statement from the state government said: “The word ‘abducted’ is misprinted instead of ‘abandoned’. This mistake is only in English version. In original Gujarati medium textbook, this mistake is not found (sic).”
 
  said the mistake was a translation error and not intentional. “A detailed inquiry has been initiated into this and necessary corrections in the online edition of the book have been made. I have ordered to bar the services of the erring translators and proofreaders of the book.”
 
 The class XII Sanskrit textbook published by the   (GSBST), on page number 106, said that “Sita was abducted by Rama” while dwelling on the epic “Raghuvansham” by the famous Sanskrit poet Kalidas.
 
 Nitin Pethani, executive president of   (GSBST), said action will be taken against the panel that gave the final approval to the textbooks.
 
 In the digital copy of the book, the mistake has been rectified by replacing the word ‘abducted’ with ‘abandoned’. A political spat broke out over the textbook blooper, as the   alleged that the mistake about Lord Ram in the book hurts the religious sentiments of crores of Hindus. “The state education department and the textbook board must apologize for hurting the sentiments of Hindus. The textbook board and education department have been tampering with facts by religiously repeating mistakes in books. 
 
 The liability of the erring officials of the education department and the board must be fixed, rather than punishing proofreaders,” said Gujarat Congress spokesman  .
 
 BJP spokesman Bharat Pandya said this was just a mistake of a word which can’t be politicized by the Congress, a party, he claimed “never believed in the existence of Lord Ram”. 
 
 “The mistake in the textbook was just a blunder of one word but the ideology of Congress is stuffed with blunders,” said Pandya.
 
 
