NEW DELHI: After chief minister Arvind   announced on Friday that he will go on a   if the   issue is not resolved by March 31, traders’ associations, while slamming the Delhi CM, said that the government needs to act now. Confederation   (CAIT) has called for a Delhi Trade   on March 13 against the ongoing sealing drive initiated by the local bodies on the directions of a monitoring committee appointed by the Supreme Court.

 South Delhi Municipal Corporation’s sealing drive in Amar Colony market has attracted a lot of criticism and a strong protest from the traders. While the traders claim that the sealing at Amar Colony market is illegal as the stretch is notified under the commercial street and running commercial activity is legal, SDMC, in its clarification, has said that the shops were sealed because of violations of law.
 
 “As per the layout plan of Lajpat Nagar-IV, right of way of road between the blocks is 36 feet while the total space between the blocks is 60 feet. The common space in front of each of these blocks is 12 feet, which is L&DO land. The said common space, which was actually meant for the movement of pedestrians and various other community services, has been encroached by the occupants to the extent of 12 feet in the front and approximately 30 feet in the rear. Large scale alterations/additions have been made by way of permanent and semi-permanent structures in flagrant violation of law and usurping invaluable public land. ,” said an SDMC spokesperson.
 
 CAIT criticised Kejriwal’s announcement of the hunger strike and termed it as “political drama.”
 
 “The trading community of Delhi is not impressed by Kejriwal’s announcement since he is not doing what he is capable of but trying to score political mileage,” said a CAIT spokesperson.
 
 CAIT general secretary, Praveen Khandelwal, said that Kejriwal should honestly work for traders and should pass a bill for moratorium on sealing in the ensuing session of the assembly and forward it to the Centre for approval.
 
 
