DHARAMSHALA:   International Cooperation Agency (JICA) is the main funding agency in Bullet Train project of India. It would be engaging experts to boost the regional economy of the areas where stations would fall en-route between Mumbai and Ahmadabad. This would be done keeping in view the futuristic developmental projects of the country.

 Chief Representative of JICA, India -   told this to TOI in an exclusive talk here on Tuesday. He said that this was aimed under   (TOD) as it will strengthen Delhi Mumbai Industrial Corridor (DMIC).
 
 “Regional economic development is one of the main focus areas in this high-speed rail project. As Ahmadabad and Mumbai were well connected through flights but connecting these two big cities through rail was aimed to give an economic boost to areas in between and for that, we are hiring expertise” said Sakamoto.
 
 It was last year when he had signed the loan agreement for this project on behalf of JICA with S. Selvakumar, Joint Secretary, Department of Economic Affairs, Ministry of Finance, GOI.
 
 He further said that JICA was contributing for the smooth implementation of this High-Speed Railway Project by signing the Memorandum for General Consultancy as a funding agency under which it will provide design and bidding assistance for the public works and systems required for the construction.
 
 Sakamoto said that the distance between both (Ahmadabad and Mumbai) was almost same as it was between Tokyo and   in Japan where bullet train was running from last more than 50 years. “It is about 508 KMs,” he said adding that the core of this project is to consider the stations falling in between for futuristic development projects.
 
 Sakamoto was here to participate in a two days national level workshop that concluded on Tuesday at  . It was organized by the agriculture department of the state on crop diversification supported by this Japanese agency. Projects of about 1200 crores were undergoing at present in state-funded by JICA.
 
