CHENNAI : Prime Minister   likely to visit Chennai to launch the   government’s   scooter scheme on February 24, former chief minister J Jayalalithaa’s birth anniversary.

 The event is being held at a time when a couple of important high court verdicts are set to be delivered by the Madras HC. The PM’s “interest” in the state’s welfare will be on display at Kalaivanar Arangam in Chennai when the scheme will be officially launched.
 
 
 Modi’s visit assumes significance as the HC is expected to come out with a ruling in the case of disqualification of 18 MLAs by the   speaker.
 
 The fate of the one-year-old Edappadi K Palaniswami government hinges on the outcome of the case. Highly placed sources told TOI that the state government officially invited   a few days ago for the event and the PMO confirmed participation on Monday morning.
 
 
 ‘PM advised me on merger due to his affection for Jaya’
 
 A senior minister, who wished to remain anonymous, said, “A tentative schedule has been received by the government. Modi, who will be attending Auroville’s 50th anniversary celebrations and a public meeting in Puducherry on February 25, has agreed to participate in the TN government event in Chennai to be held the previous day. The function will be held at Kalaivanar Arangam at 5.30pm.”
 
 Meanwhile, on Monday, deputy CM O Panneerselvam sought to clarify that Modi had asked him to join hands with EPS to save the government.
 
 “During my visit to New Delhi, Modi asked me about T T V Dhinakaran’s attempt to topple the government with the help of 18 MLAs. When I consulted him about joining hands (merging with the EPS faction), he said it will be good. It reflects the goodwill he has for us,” the deputy CM told reporters in Madurai.
 
 “When parties want to benefit out of creating divisions, Modi has offered advice because of his affection towards the former chief minister. There is no hidden agenda and it only shows his magnanimity,” Panneerselvam said.
 
 His rival, Dhinakaran took a dig at the   leadership, saying the party was controlling the ruling AIADMK.
 
 While the PM’s visit is seen as an attempt to put to rest speculations about strain between BJP and the ruling camp, AIADMK MP   said the visit by PM was to be seen as a goodwill gesture. “He is the PM of the country. This is a programme announced by Amma on her birthday and to inaugurate it on her birthday is a good way of paying obeisance to the departed leader,”   said.
 
 
 
 
