ALAPPUZHA :  , a two-year-old girl from Mumbai who was taking a   with he family, drowned in   near Mundakkal Bridge near Kainakary around 5.30pm on Tuesday evening. Anvitha is the daughter of  ,   that is located near Icon Plaza street in Kalyan (west), Mumbai.

 Alappuzha deputy SP PV Baby said IT professional Shetty (37) arrived at Pallathuruthy on Tuesday noon along with his wife Soumya Shetty (34), son Brahith (7) and Anvitha for a backwater cruise.
  
  
 “Houseboat cruise is not allowed after 5pm and so, their boat, Athen, was anchored near Mundakkal bridge. Anvitha was playing with her parents and brother in the forward section of the houseboat when she slipped from her father’s grasp and accidently fell into the river. Shetty jumped in to rescue her but failed as she went under the boat,” he said.
 
 Sheejo M, a resident, said that Shetty, who was not a swimmer, somehow managed to hold on to a tyre tied on the boat and hence rescuers could save him. “If he did not hold on that tyre, he too might have gone under the boat. After saving him, residents soon tracked Anvitha and brought her up by 5.15 pm,” he said.
 
 Though she was rushed to St Antony’s Mission private hospital, located just 500m away from the accident spot, her life could not be saved. Around 5.45pm, her body was shifted to the morgue of Alappuzha Medical College Hospital (MCH).
 
 There is no road access to the hospital and so her body was taken from the hospital to panchayat boat jetty in a boat. From there, her body was transferred to MCH. Shetty, who suffered minor injuries, was given first aid at the hospital. Villagers tried to console the anguished parents later. Around 7.30pm, they were shifted to a private place in Kainakary by the owners of the houseboat.
 
 “The postmortem will be held on Wednesday morning and the body will be handed over to her parents by noon. If they want to conduct a funeral here, we will make arrangements. We will ensure travel arrangements if they wish to return home,” said Nedumudy police station SI K Prasannan.
 
 
