BHOPAL: In a hit-and-run case, a speeding and unidentified car hit two bike-borne youths at Shivaji Square on Link Road No. 1 from behind and fled the spot on Wednesday night. 

 So powerful was the impact of collision, the bike skidded and crashed into a rotary. The youth driving the bike sustained severe head injury. The youth riding pillion, sustained serious injuries and is being treated at a private hospital in Arera Colony. His condition is stated to be out of danger.
 
 As the emergency 108 ambulance service stayed off road owing to their strike, two were lying at the spot for close to an hour before a passerby, Kamlesh spotted and rushed them JP Hospital. From there, Sanjay was referred to   at 12.40 am— doctors declared him brought dead. From the time of accident, till the youth was taken to Hamidia hospital a crucial one hour had passed.
 
 Sources said after the incident, a passerby Kamlesh rushed them to JP Hospital from where Sanjay was referred to Hamidia and Ashish’s kin reached the hospital and took him to a private hospital.
 
 A case was registered at TT Nagar police station and search is on to find errant car driver.
 
 Investigation officer ASI NPS Baghel said the identity of the youth, who lost life, was ascertained as Sanjay Kushwah, son of Dasai Kushwah. He was a resident of   district. Ashish Pathak, 24, son of Virendra Pathak from the same district, was riding pillion. The two, stayed together in a rented accommodation at Ayodhya Bypass to prepare for competitive exams.
 
 The incident took place around 11.45 pm. Both Sanjay and Ashish had come to Mata Mandir Chouraha for some work and were returning home on Sanjay’s bike. Sanjay was riding his Bajaj Pulsar bike. When they reached near Shivaji Square on Link Road No. 1, the speeding car which came from behind hit their bike and fled the spot.
 
 The bike skidded and crashed into the rotary. Sanjay, who was riding the bike, was not wearing helmet. He sustained severe head injury.
 
 ASI Baghel said Sanjay had completed his graduation and was preparing for banking entrance exams. Upon learning about the incident, his father reached Bhopal on Thursday and took the body to Tikamgarh after post-mortem for last rites.
 
 ASI Baghel said Sanjay was the only son of his father. His father is a farmer. His mother had died when he was a child. Ashish completed engineering and is preparing for UPSC entrance exam. His father is also a farmer in Tikamgarh.
 
