CHANDIGARH: Even though successive governments in Punjab have claimed to have been fight against drug abuse, it is the private de-addiction centers in the state which not just outnumber those in government sector but have also taken the lead in helping addicts wean off drugs.

 In reply to a question by AAP’s Sunam MLA Aman Arora in the state assembly, the health department has confirmed that the budget allocation for the government-run centres has gone down from Rs 150 crore in 2015-16 to barely Rs 6 crore in 2017-18. The actual expenditure made in 2017-18 was Rs 25.74 crore.
 
 During the last five years, 37 government-run and 96 private de-addiction centers have been set up. In this period, the state government also came up with 22 rehabilitation centers while those in private sector were 77.
 
 While 5,159 patients were admitted in government drug rehabilitation centers during the past five years, admissions in the private sector were 17,667 for the corresponding period. The deaddiction centers include ‘Model Deaddiction Centers’ in Amritsar, Patiala and Bathinda that are 50-bedded each. Among the private de-addiction centers, there are as many as 20 in Ludhiana itself. There is, however, none in private sector in Ropar. Similarly, Pathankot and Fazilka do not have any private rehabilitation centre.
 
 The state government has added that   for Deaddiction and Rehabilitation has been constituted in 2014 and the chief minister heads it.
 
 Not satisfied with the reply, Arora said that the board may have been constituted on paper but as per his information, it has not held even a single meeting so far. He added that the reduction in budget for the de-addiction centers showed the lack of seriousness in tackling the menace of drug abuse in the state.
 
 “I have put up another question pertaining to the staff that has been provided to the special task force to crackdown on drug trade. Even though the reply hasn’t come yet but there are reports that it does not have enough manpower at its disposal,” he added.
 
 
 
