Nagpur: The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has attached a property worth Rs3.26 crore belonging to Abhijeet Group chairman Manoj Jayaswal and his son Abhishek in the coal block allocation scam of UPA regime. The attachment is in a case against JLD Yavatmal Energy Limited, which allegedly got a coal block in Chhattisgarh through fraudulent means.   The company was originally promoted by Manoj Jayaswal and Lokmat Group chairman Vijay Darda. Even as both have exited the venture now, the coal block has remained with the Jayaswal family. After a CBI inquiry, the ED too has initiated a case under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act against the company.    The attached property includes a plot and unfinished building having total area of 1,673 square meters at Dhantoli in the city. The property named Growth Infinity is among the personal assets of the Jayaswals. The ED could not find any assets in the company’s name as such.    The amount of Rs3.26 crore is being considered as ‘proceeds of crime’ by the ED. No assets were acquired by the company, so nothing could be attached. In this case, the entire Rs3.26 crore capital infused in JLD Yavatmal Energy was treated as proceeds of crime, against which the property at Dhantoli has been attached.    “ED investigations revealed that Abhijeet Group of companies controlled by Manoj Jayaswal and Abhishek had transferred a huge amount of money to Ms Growth Infinite, a partnership firm owned by the family members. The money with the firm was used to buy the Dhantoli property,” said an ED press release.    Jayaswal, during his term as a director of JLD Yavatmal Energy, had misrepresented facts with an objective to bag the Fatehpur East coal block in Chhattisgarh. It was wrongly claimed that the company was jointly promoted by Lokmat Group and IDFC Limited. It was put up that the company has net worth of Rs2,544 crore, which wasn’t the case. Jayaswal also claimed that it has proposed to set up a 1,200 mega watt power plant using the coal mined from the block. “But for this deception, the company could not have pre-qualified for the recommendation of ministry of power,” said the ED release.    JLD Yavatmal Energy was also supposed to disclose if any other coal blocks were allotted to the company previously. The company had been allotted four other blocks from 1999 to 2005, but the facts were concealed.    Sources said despite the claims of setting up a power plant, no steps were taken to either start the power plant or mine the coal. Soon after CBI filed the case, the coal block was also taken back following a Supreme Court order in the case. This left no assets in the company’s hands, due to which the property of the former directors had to be attached.     