VIJAYAWADA : Proposals for   of canal bunds in the city are worrying for locals here. 

 The state government has plans to develop green spaces along canal bunds by relocating people who have encroached the area. While officials are heading to conduct a survey of residents living along canal bunds, locals are ready to agitate against the move.
 
 Chief minister  , in his surprise inspection to the city in October 2017, directed officials to prepare proposals to beautify canal bunds as they can become a major tourist attraction in the city. 
 
 Officials of  , and water resources department are analysing the number of families residing along these canal bunds.
 
  
 The civic body is working on proposals to relocate the residents of canal bunds to the economic city, which will come up in  . 
 
 Officials are gearing to conduct a detailed study of the houses by using the data recorded during Smart Pulse Survey, to identify the real beneficiaries. 
 
 Government is planning to give priority to residents of canal bunds in allocation of houses in Jakkampudi housing projects.
 
 However, residents of canal bunds are opposed to the decision of relocation as they will have to move away from the prime areas of the city, and possibly lose their livelihood. 
 
 Bandi Subba Rao, a daily-wage labourer, said: “We have been residing in Gundala Madhyakatta for the past 40 years, and we have got attached to this locality. Government officials are trying to convince us to move from here by showing attractive flats in Jakkampudi, which is still on paper, and we are not ready to accept this.” 
 
 Around 1,000 families are residing along Ryvus canal bunds in the city, and residents here are opposing the demolition of their houses in the name of development. 
 
 K Rama Devi, a homemaker, said: “We are not against the state government’s decision of developing canal bunds. But we are against the demolition of habitats in the name of development. Government officials promised houses to   bund residents a year ago, but they have not got the flats in   colony till now.” 
 
 The government should first construct houses in Jakkampudi before demolishing the houses along canal bunds, CPI (M) capital region secretary   said. It becomes a habit for government to take over sites where the poor stay in the name of development, he said.
 
 “Government should create trust among the residents of canal bunds before conducting a survey, and give assurance about relocating them after the demolition of houses,” says Babu Rao.
 
 
