Henceforth, undergraduate and postgraduate students of  , many of whom fail to clear the backlog of subjects even two years after the end of the course, will not get unlimited chances to pass out.

 According to the   guidelines adopted by the university, they will get only two more chances to clear their pending papers.
 
 
 A statement from the university said it adopted the University Grants Commission’s norm to determine a uniform period within which a student may be allowed to qualify for a degree. Under exceptional circumstances, he or she may get another year to clear the arrears but not the unlimited chances the students had been enjoying so far. This rule will be implemented in all affiliated colleges of the university, Sources pointed out that those who studied in Bharathidasan University or affiliated institutions would be regarded as private students if they had to clear the backlog after the course was over. Students whose courses ended in 2017 would get only one more chance to write the exams since they had an opportunity to appear in the November semester exam.
 
 While the   (UGC) had formulated the guideline in 2015, it was not adopted by many universities and many weren’t even aware of it.
 
  was the first to adopt the guideline as part of efforts to restrict students having a backlog for as many as seven years continuing to appear for examinations with the regular students.
 
 “We were preparing too many question papers which were affecting our regular students. Candidates who failed to clear arrears even seven years after the course will now be allowed to write the exams separately and only two more times in February and August 2018,” the official said.
 
 Further, every district will be allocated only one centre to write the exams in the state. “We have now found that only 12,000 out of the 40,000 candidates who applied with arrears to clear are eligible to reappear under the new norm,” said the source. When contacted, higher education secretary   said that   and some other universities had also adopted the guidelines as a resolution but the problem was especially acute in Anna University.
 
