PUNE: A 21-year-old commerce student died after falling off the balcony of his   apartment at Bramha Majestic society on   Road around 8.35pm on Monday. 

 The student,   Kamthe, suffered multiple injuries after the fall and was rushed to a private hospital in the family car. He, however, succumbed to his injuries while undergoing treatment at the hospital around 9am on Tuesday.
 
 Ashish belonged to the family of a former sarpanch, Vilas Kamthe, of Yewalewadi gram panchayat (now merged within   limits). His father is into construction and allied business. 
 
 
  
 
 Senior inspector Milind Gaikwad of the Kondhwa police told TOI, “As per the statement of the victim’s father, Ashish fell off the balcony after losing his balance. His parents and a sister were in the   when the accident occurred.”
 
 The officer said, “We have secured a closed-circuit television (CCTV) footage that has captured the entire incident. We have registered a case of accidental death in this regard.”
 
 Ashish was pursuing second-year Bachelor of Commerce degree course at a college in Kondhwa. His friend, Umesh Kalbhor, from Pisoli who was present at the spot said, “I have known Ashish since my childhood and we used to meet almost every day. On Monday, I spoke to him in the morning. When I met him in the evening, he looked disturbed. When I asked him the reason, he did not tell me anything. It was later that I came to know of his death through a common friend.”
 
 Another friend of the victim, Suraj Takale, said, “Ashish was good in communication and was quite a friendly person. I had last met him on January 5. On Monday, I came to know from my friends that he had met with an accident. His family members have been staying here for a decade now. His uncle, aunt and their children also stay in a neighbouring building here.”
 
 Sonaram Chaudhary, a shopowner, also said Ashish was friendly in nature. “He used to wave at me whenever he passed by my shop. The CCTV footage shows him falling in a horizontal position from the balcony.”
 
 Senior inspector Gaikwad said, “We came to know about the incident on Monday around 9pm. Investigations have revealed that the victim fell off the balcony accidentally. This is based on the fact that he fell exactly below the balcony. If he would have jumped, he would have fallen at some distance away from the balcony.”
 
 The victim’s post-mortem was performed at the Sassoon  . His funeral was performed in the evening. His family members were not available for comments. 
 
 
