Joining a show midway is not easy for any actor as it comes with its share of challenges. But  , who was last seen in 'Meri Saasu Maa', does not see it that way. After the leap, 'Laado' sees a fresh new cast, which includes   as the new lead. He says, “Viewers have enjoyed watching Laado in its first season as well as the second season. So yes, there is a certain challenge in taking the show ahead, but that’s how you enjoy your work on television. However, I am not worried as I have always believed in accepting roles that will stand out.”
Siddharth, who has acted in shows like 'Singhasan Battisi', 'Krishna Kanhaiya' and ' ' is clear about one thing though — he has no intention of being a part of women-centric shows, where the male actor has nothing much to do, except react to dramatic situations. He says, “A woman-centric show is not the problem, but I can’t be there just looking good and doing nothing. I have to be a crucial part of it. There should be enough meat in the character that I take on; so much so the show’s track cannot progress without him. However, much of it also depends on the way you perform and connect with viewers.
 Meanwhile, his role in Laado will require him to build more muscles. He says, “I have always had a lean body. I keep fit playing soccer and tennis. Right now, the focus is to get more muscular. Personally, if you ask me, I don’t like the beefy look. I love the way Akshay Kumar keeps himself fit.”Talking about taking over from   Malhotra, who played the male lead till recently, he says, “Actually, I don’t think I am taking over from Shaleen because that was a different track. Much has changed after his track got over. So, forward is the only way to go.”
 Since he is from Varanasi, Siddharth is happy about the fact that makers are highly inspired from small towns and centre their shows around it. He says, “The ratings of shows are mainly influenced by viewers from small towns. I am proud that I belong to Varanasi; it’s a small town that connects with both the locals and the global tourists.”
 
 
