THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: One of the first critics of the   Central Committee decision on draft political resolution for the Hyderabad party   was Bishop Geevarghese Mor Coorilos of the Malankara   Church. 

 Within minutes of the CC winding up its three-day session and the result of voting was out, the bishop asked in a Facebook post: In which age had the CPM been living in? 
 
 Comparing Sunday's CC decision against having any electoral understanding with the Congress to the 1997 CC decision to deny Jyoti Basu the opportunity to become the Prime Minister,   wrote: "The decision will be a big relief for communal forces, but, it will disappoint all secular forces. It's a decision that will weaken the unity of secular movements." Coorilose's concerns are shared widely by minority community members in the state and their concerns are going to determine the verdict of 2019   election in the state.
 
 Sources in the CPM told TOI that the larger interest of the prominent Kerala faction played a big role in prompting Prakash Karat to press for his hard-line approach that ruled out any relation-direct or indirect- with the Congress. 
 
 
  
  
 
 It is learnt that at one point, in between the several available PB meetings which discussed the political resolution, Karat was ready to compromise, but, S Ramachandran Pillai had argued vociferously for sticking to the original Karat document.
 
  The core argument of the Kerala party that the Congress was its major opponent in the state and any alliance with it will harm the party's prospects in the 2019 poll is likely to fall flat if the concern of minorities in the state translates into votes next year. 
 
 In the 2016 assembly election, the support of minorities helped the CPM win crucial seats in Thrissur, Ernakulam and Pathanamthitta districts. If the Congress-led UDF campaigns smartly succeeds in conveying to the voters that they the real opponents of Narendra Modi and not 'the still undecided guys' in the Pinarayi Vijayan camp, the result will spell doom for the party. 
 
 With the   eyeing a dozen constituencies here, most of the tri-corner fights can sway to the advantage of UDF in the event of an effective minority consolidation.
 
 The notion that the Kerala unit of the CPM is united behind Karat is also wrong. There were dissident voices in all levels, but, those were silenced by the leadership, which unlike the one in centre, still believes in autocracy. "Can you ever think that any debate like that happened in the CC in the Kerala state committee, leave alone the chance of voting," asked a CPM leader on condition of anonymity. 
 
 VS Achuthanandan could convey his dissent in clear terms as he has nothing to lose. On Sunday, T M Thomas Isaac too expressed symbolic dissent by abstaining from voting. It remains to be seen what price he will have to pay for disobedience.
 
 A section of party leaders still believes that Pinarayi Vijayan's indebtedness to Karat was the real reason for the Kerala unit's decision to unwavering toe the Karat line. When the SNC-Lavalin scandal broke out, Karat, as the general secretary, had done everything to ensure that Vijayan continued as state secretary. When the moment came for him to repay the debt, Vijayan did it in style by not only winning the CC battle for his mentor but also setting the stage for repeating such a spectacle in the Hyderabad party congress if the issue goes for voting there too.
 
 
