
 

 The   government’s decision to ban plastic bags can be debated. Is it a good step towards saving the environment or is it a desperate attempt to make up for the shortcomings of the state’s municipal corporations.
 
 It’s still unclear if the states have been able to fully achieve the Swachh cities we were all promised. There’s not much evidence on the ground. We still have leaky public toilets and our rivers and creeks remain clogged with plastic bags and other rubbish. A ban on plastic bags could mitigate some of these problems.
 
  
  
 
 However, let us first analyse the many failures of municipal corporations in dealing with garbage collection and its disposal.
 
 Look at the  . In its attempt to collect more money through property taxes, it has added 29 fringe villages to become the largest municipal corporation in Maharashtra. But has it done any groundwork to improve infrastructure and necessary services in the newly-attached villages? Garbage collection and its management are almost non-existent in the new areas.
 
 The corporation is also understaffed and even if citizens take care to sort garbage into dry and wet bags and leave them outside their societies, there is no one to collect it on time. As a result, stray dogs are having a field day. Later, these torn up bags start flying about. Come rain, they go on to choke vital drainage lines. Mumbai is the best example of this phenomenon because millions of bags are left to fly around. One rarely sees sweepers collecting these bags. Even if one finds a sweeper doing so, he or she will simply heap the garbage into a pile and set it on fire — goodbye, air quality. Plastic is made from oil residue using modern techniques. It has become the safest way to preserve food, liquids, fresh vegetables and fruits. Modern supermarkets have made pre-packed food not only convenient but also safe. Imagine your food items lying in piles, open to pollution, dust, bacteria and dirt when you go to buy them in cloth bags carried by you.
 
 We can even generate electricity from any plastic waste with hardly 1% residue. Do remember that thousands of trees and lakhs of litres of water are used to manufacture paper. Then, the contaminated water is disposed of in the river or sea, polluting the environment. Paper is not free of crime.
 
 Plastic waste is hazardous only if it is not collected and reused. All plastics can be reused. Some plastics can be recycled as many as 12 times. What we need is a change in our habits and rules — make the corporations employ more staff and garbage vans for proper collection, segregation and recycling of waste material.
 
 Today, almost everything is packed in plastic-based material. Grains, fruits, oil, juices, water, medicine and many other items can be preserved hygienically and sealed easily.   is not only recycling all its plastic, but is also importing plastic waste from other countries. The country generates its electricity by burning the plastic to heat water which creates steam to run large turbines.
 
 The smoke is well processed before it is let out in the atmosphere.
 
 Remember the ban on gutka a few years ago? Did gutka simply vanish? No, it is still available... at four times its real value. If the Government is serious about banning plastic, it should shut down factories making plastic material. Otherwise, we are risking the emergence of illegal tactics.
 
 
 
 
