PATNA:   Rajnath Singh said on Sunday some conspiratorial forces were trying to rupture the social fabric and religious harmony by dividing people along caste and religious lines, but the Centre would not allow this to happen.

 “Some forces are active in the country and trying to rupture its social fabric and disturb social harmony by dividing people on caste and religious lines. They want to destroy the unity and integrity of the country, but we will not allow this to happen,” Singh said without taking the name of anyone or identifying any such “forces”.
 
 The closest he came to identifying them was when he obliquely referred to cross-border terrorism, saying in September 2014, Pakistani forces had killed a few of our soldiers, following which the Indian soldiers were asked to make strong counter firing without “counting the bullets”, and added, “I will not do anything for which I have to bow my head in shame.” 
 
 The minister came hard on the Naxalites, saying they were opposed to development and, in fact, were creating obstacles in carrying out development activities. “The government will not tolerate it and all efforts will be made to neutralize them,” Rajnath said.
 
 Addressing the Vijayotsav Mahotsav organized by the state   here to commemorate the 160th year of the victory of Kunwar Singh over the British troops at Jagdishpur in Bhojpur during the 1857 revolt, Rajnath said the core of the national freedom struggle right from the 1857 revolt has been that Hindus and Muslims equally contributed to the attainment of the country’s independence. “If Chandrashekhar Azad finally killed himself to escape the ignominy of being killed by a bullet from the British soldier, Asafullah gladly chose to embrace capital punishment for the same cause,” he said.
 
 Referring to the prevailing trust deficit between Hindus and Muslims in the country, though without recalling the controversy surrounding the use of the phrase ‘saffron terror’, he said, “There are ‘galat (wrong)’ and right persons everywhere. For the presence of a few wrong persons, the entire community should not be painted with bad brush on either side.”
 
 In the backdrop of the increasing number of rape cases, including of minors, and especially in the background of the recent Kathua rape incident in Jammu and Kashmir, he made fervent appeal to people cutting across religious divide not to alienate themselves from the concerns of others. “Do consider that they (rape victims) also belong to you, think that they are from among you,” Rajnath said.
 
 He also said PM   always thinks for the good of all sections of society, including the dalits, extremely backward classes (EBCs) and all others, whatever their religion. “Our government is committed to the development of the poor — this is what the PM had said after taking oath in 2014,” Rajnath said.
 
 Among others who made brief address at the function were Union ministers Ashwini Kumar Choubey and Ramkripal Yadav, as well as former Union minister Rajiv Pratap Rudy, deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi, state BJP president Nityanand Rai and road construction minister Nand Kishore Yadav.
 
 
