NEW DELHI: Pro-Islamic State terrorists have hailed the ‘martyrdom’ of ‘brother’ Essa  , purported leader of an IS-pledged Kashmiri group killed in   on Monday, while calling upon Kashmiris to desire for ‘shahadah’ (martyrdom) and replace every slain IS fighter in the Valley with two. 

 The IS supporters, while reporting death of “leader of the IS-pledged group in Kashmir” via Telegram, urged Muslims of the state to fight rather than participate in demonstrations and also attack members of the separatist factions, according to a post by SITE Intelligence website. 
 
 The website reported that pro-IS terrorists ‘Bakistani al-Mujahir’ and ‘The Anfal’ had, on their respective Telegram channels, identified Fazili as Abu Yahya al-Istashadi, while referring the other two slain terrorists, Syed Owaid and Sultan al-Hyderabadi by the nom de guerre ‘Abu Barra al-Kashmiri’ and ‘Abu Zar al-Hindi’.
 
 Bakistani al-Muhajir wrote: “If anyone among the murtadeen of Hurriyat, UJC (United Jihad Council), LF (Liberation Front) tries to approach the families of our beloved brothers, kill them, deface them and then spit over their dead bodies”. 
 
 ‘The Anfal’ stated: “One thing that makes me sad is so many people giving crying smileys on social media and protesting by throwing stones. What is sad about is that these people will soon get over it. They will get out this emotion and then go back to normal mode.
 
 “It shouldn’t be like this....You should be willing to die in Jihad. Even parents get over the loss of their sons after some time. But these brothers were not end of this war. It will go on and on. It will need blood supply constantly. So we should be willing to supply that blood. When one is killed we should replace with two”.
 
 Incidentally, Al Qaeda affiliate Ansar Ghazwatul Hind, on Tuesday also came forward to claim Sultan-al-Hyderabadi as its own, declaring on Al-Hurr Media that he had come to Kashmir from Hyderabad in 2017 and was among the first in the Zakir Musa-led group’s ranks.
 
 Al-Qaraar Media, information unit of the IS-pledged group and which has rebranded itself as  , had on February 6, 2018, published a photo of Abu Yahya al-Istashadi with fighters in a jungle. Abu Barra al-Kashmiri is the same nom de guerre used by a Kashmiri fighter who appeared in the December 25, 2017, video released by the IS-pledged group.
 
 J&K police sources had earlier claimed Fazili, suspected in the killing of J&K police constable Farooq Ahmed Yatoo last month, was part of Tehreek ul Mujahideen, a small jihadist group active in south and central Kashmir.
 
 Both the Centre and J&K police have so far maintained that IS “has no presence as an organisation” in the state, while conceding that there may be a few individuals or small groups influenced by the IS ideology.
 
