MOHALI: Around 50% of the 15 to 16 housing towers at   in Peer Muchalla, Zirakpur, where a four-storeyed building collapsed on April 12, have not attained completion certificates from the authority, a preliminary investigation has revealed.

 This means the builders had sold the flats without fulfilling all the norms. As people are staying in these buildings, the local administration has ordered structure stability test of all the towers in the locality spread over 10 acres.
 
 Mohali deputy commissioner   said, “Derabassi sub-divisional magistrate is conducting a magisterial probe. Strict action will be taken against the builders if they are found negligent in their work. The SDM has been directed to ascertain the status of completion certificates of the towers already sold and to get structure stability tests reports of the buildings.”
 
 Residents have alleged that the municipal corporation is registering their flats in their names, but the promoters have neither got completion certificates nor building plans approved.
 
 Ajay Kumar, one of the residents said, “How can MC register or transfer flats in our names when the promoters have not completed the formalities. There is a nexus. We don’t know how safe the towers in which we live are?”
 
 The main cause of the under-construction housing society building was sinking of the retaining wall supporting the main structure because of poor foundation. The retaining wall was at the farther end of the building adjoining the edge of the Ghaggar river bed.
 
 The SDM said, “We are checking all the angles, including the attaining of completion certificate, building plans approval as well as stability tests. Everything will be made clear in the inquiry report.”
 
 Police have booked then councillor Ajaib Singh, then estate officer, SE, SDO, architect, building plan approval officer and building inspector.
 
 Builders are still on the run as the Mohali police have booked 11 partners of   on charges of endangering life or personal safety of others, negligent conduct with respect to pulling down or repairing buildings and cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property against a group of 11 builders of Imperial Garden housing society, said investigating officer sub inspector  . The FIR has been registered against OP Singla, Mandeep Singla, Amit Singla, Pawan Aggarwal, Parveen Kumar, Sunil Aggarwal, Pushwinder Goyal, Suresh Singla, Vinod Kumar and two more persons said the police.
 
 
