Nagpur: Teachers who are long dead or have retired decades ago continue to find a place in the Nagpur University’s so-called updated list of PhD supervisors. They include former Lieutenant Governor of Pondicherry Rajani Rai, who passed away in 2013, renowned poet Grace aka Manik Godghate, columnist Praful Bidwai’s father BK Bidwai, noted academician RN Roy, and poet Mansha-ur-Rehman in the faculty-wise PhD guide list.

 While these mistakes are present in the list posted on NU website, the other portal run by MKCL too has outdated data. The list is crucial for PhD aspirants who would be referring the data to identify a place of research and availability of guide.
 
 Pro-VC Pramod Yeole, who is in-charge of PhD cell, didn’t’ answer to TOI’s calls.
 
 NU officials downplayed the issue saying the list is not the one to be referred to by aspirants. The statement appeared justified only until TOI asked about the one to be referred to by 2017 PhD aspirants. As per their clarification, the list was made available along with PET schedule for the year 2011.
 
 TOI found that even in 2011 the PhD supervisor list had names of teachers who passed away or retired at least 20 to 25 years ago.
 
 Then, NU officials said the aspirants need to log on to MKCL’s portal to check availability of place of research and guide. NU and MKCL had severed ties owing to poor services in 2014. However, on the MKCL portal too the subject-wise vacancy data is not just outdated but is also not as per the new Maharashtra Universities Act, 2016 and NU’s new direction for MPhil/PhD. 
 
 The faculties are still grouped as per the old Act while the new one prescribed only four — science and technology, commerce and management, humanities and interdisciplinary studies. Colleges that have been recently accorded place of research status are yet to be included. Earlier, the courses were placed under nine different faculties such as arts, commerce, education, engineering and technology, home science, law, medicine, science and social science. The faculty of medicine has been scrapped after setting up of Maharashtra University of Health Sciences (MUHS) in 1998.
 
 There is mismatch in numbers of seats and scholars enrolled with colleges. Guides are wrongly shown to be registered with colleges other than their workplace.
 
 When this was pointed out, NU, MKCL and Promarc officials said the list was updated.
 
 Since October 22, TOI has been consistently reporting about the NU’s questionable decisions regarding the doctoral programme. While goof-ups in PhD work continues to come to fore, the top brass has been claiming that the process has been streamlined and designed to improve research quality.
 
 “In the name of reforms, only harassment is taking place. The policy should be to make entry easy and exit difficult. But here, it is completely opposite. Besides, there are such blunders in handling the important data,” aspirants said.
 
 
