KOCHI: Giving relief to 85 families living in P and T Colony at Gandhinagar,   ( ) on Tuesday announced that it would rehabilitate these families.

 
 Speaking at a press conference on Monday, GCDA chairman   said that these families would be rehabilitated in an apartment complex to be constructed in 35 cents of land owned by the development agency in the city.
 
 The project would be implemented under the slum alleviation programmes announced in the GCDA budget for 2018-19, Mohanan said. Half the amount required for the construction of the apartment complex can be availed from   of the state government. When local bodies implement Life Mission project, the remaining amount for constructing houses can be allotted from plan fund of the local body. But in the case of GCDA, there is no plan fund allocation. So, the development agency will request the state government to provide the remaining 50 per cent fund also.
 
 The residents of P and T colony had been staging agitations demanding their rehabilitation as their houses would flood in a couple hours’ rain.
 
 “Waste water and human excreta from Thevara-Perandoor canal would enter their houses. So, life in the colony has been miserable. Due to lack of adequate and proper toilet facilities, we are unable to declare Gandhinagar division which includes P and T colony as open defecation free (ODF) division,” Poornima Narayan said.
 
 GCDA chairman C N Mohanan saidthat theGCDA would be allotting Rs 7 crore worth land for rehabilitating the residents. Each family would get 400 sqft house. The plan is to construct four storied apartment complexes for rehabilitating the residents. There are around 280 persons living in 85 families in the P and T colony.
 
 C N Mohanan said that the cage fishing project at Mundemvely has been causing huge loss to the GCDA. A walkway and eateries would ALSO be arranged so that the public can use it as a place for leisure.
 
 The laser show facility at Rajendra Maidan is defunct now. Itwouldbe rectifiedsoon and the public would be allowed to watch the show of free of cost, he said.
 
