PANAJI: Chief minister   and health minister Vishwajit Rane on Tuesday laid the foundation stone for the Rs 500-crore, 520-bedded superspecialty block at   and Hospital ( ), Bambolim. 

 The project will be constructed for the state government by HSCC (India) Limited, a Government of India enterprise.
 
  
  
 
 The block will offer treatment in 11 new superspecialties - endocrinology, nephrology, urology, neurology, medical gastroenterology, pediatric surgery, plastic surgery, neurosurgery, cardiothoracic and vascular surgery, cardiology, and surgical gastroenterology. It is expected to be completed within two years and will allow an increase in the GMC’s postgraduate seats by 22 in the near future. 
 
 The new block will receive Rs 120 crore through the central government’s  , and the state government will contribute the rest. 
 
 Rane said the facility will consist of over 52,000 sqm built-up area and is designed to be patient-oriented. It will be equipped with gadgets such as an automated token-dispenser for the outpatient department (OPD) to reduce patients’ waiting time.
 
 Rane said that in line with this project, digitisation of all patient information will also begin soon at the GMC. 
 
 “Though the cost of the project is Rs 386 crore, finally after all the equipment is acquired across the superspecialties, we will have spent Rs 500 crore on the 520-bed project. We will have all these superspecialties under one roof, and patients need not go to different locations to receive various treatments. We will get maximum (funds) from the central government, but Goa government will also pitch in. If the hospital is ready in the next one or two years, we can start operating,” Parrikar said.
 
 He said that the project was conceptualised in 2014 but was delayed because some of the land where the facility was to be built had been encroached upon. “Because of one small encroachment, the project was stuck for the last 1.5 to two years. Once I returned to Goa as chief minister, I inquired and monitored the project myself and got the encroachment removed,” Parrikar said.
 
 “The GMC will virtually become a medical hub of the topmost quality. It is not only one of the best among government hospitals, but also compares with private hospitals on many counts. Only the load (patients) it receives is too big. After this superspecialty block begins, it will be counted among the best hospitals in the country,” he said.
 
 Parrikar also said that the   district hospital will be functional between May and July this year. He added that the central government has sanctioned another Rs 44 crore to build a cancer block at the GMC.
 
 The new block will receive Rs 120 crore through the central government’s Pradhan Mantri Swastya Suraksha Yojana, and the state government will contribute the rest
 
 
