GANDHINAGAR: With   looming large over Gujarat, the state government, after announcing a   from March 15, has now decided to   to the cities. Accordingly, water supply to major cities including Ahmedabad, Surat, Rajkot and Vadodara among other municipal corporations and municipalities is expected to be cut in the next two weeks’ time.

 In a Cabinet meeting held on Wednesday, chief secretary and top officials of water resources department briefed CM Vijay Rupani and his ministers about the imminent water crisis in the state. Officials presented a six months long drinking water supply plan which proposed to curb drinking water supply to all major cities and municipalities to ensure the limited water stock lasts till the monsoon in June.
 
 “Water supply to Ahmedabad, which receives 1420 million liters per day (MLD) from Narmada and Kadana dams among other resources, is expected to be cut by 200 MLD. Vadodara and Rajkot too are expected to face water supply cuts of around 50 MLD each. South Gujarat has 27% less water compared to last year so there is pressing need to rationalize use of water in Surat which gets the highest water supply per capita, " a top source close to the development told TOI.
 
 Deputy CM Nitin Patel said that it is a fact that the state is grappling with less water this year. “Water scarcity is a reality which we have to deal with this year. We have decided upon many measures to rationalize the meagre water stocks and economise its use through curbing supply to cities and towns as well as reviving conventional water resources like french wells etc,” said Patel.
 
 Gujarat has only 49.8% water of its total storage capacity which is 13% less as compared to last year. One of the major triggers of water crisis is the lowest rain water inflow in 15 years in Narmada catchment areas in MP which has halved Narmada waters in Gujarat, Rajasthan, Maharashtra and MP.
 
 
 
 
 Due to low water storage in 209 dams across the state, especially Narmada, the water resources and water supply department has proposed a series of suggestions to ensure supply of minimum required drinking water in all cities, towns and villages.
 
 These also include rationalizing drinking water supply.
 
 A separate presentation was also been madebefore the chief minister, Vijay Rupani, to decide on further modalities,” said a top source close to the development.
 
 Officials said that all municipal corporations have been instructed to ready their secondary plans for ensuring water supply in summer in wake of reduced water levels in Narmada and other dams.
 
