A few weeks ago, when singer Papon kissed a minor girl contestant in a music reality show, it triggered a row in the small screen industry that made the National Commission for   consider a revision of its guidelines for child participants in television shows. 

 We analyse the situation in similar popular Malayalam shows such as   and Laughing Villa Season 2 to know if these shows have an adverse impact on the children.
 
 Popular television anchor Rekha Menon is of the opinion that these shows objectify children. “Recently, my friend Ravi K Chandran, who is a renowned cinematographer, posted in our friends group in social media about the plight of children even during the shooting of an ad film. He had expressed his grief on the insensitive filmmaking with children having to be on sets for several hours together. The case is not different in Malayalam TV shows either.”
 
 She compares the spike in TV show participation of kids now to the youth fests in the past. “Earlier if it was Kalaprathibha and Kalathilakam craze for the parents, now it is making kids participate in these reality shows. They don’t care much about the content or the scripts given or asked to perform. It, however, puts massive pressure on the little ones,” Rekha explains.
 
 Meanwhile, the crew members of Katturumbu and Laughing Villa say these shows are meant as platforms for talented children. 
 According to Wills Philip, director of Katturumbu, the skits and Dubsmashes performed do not have adult jokes or obscene content. “The show had skits like Maram oru varam which conveyed moral values and the need to love nature. We always cut the vulgar portions when performing a Dubsmash and refrain from using any expletives that would in any way influence a child,” he says. “It is becoming difficult to come up with a good message in every segment with the show completing 140 episodes. However, we will always stick on to our values and now are more careful, even with the costumes of the kids on the show. To run a show with only kids that too aged between four and nine is a lot of hard work,” says Wills. 
 
 Meanwhile, Shamnad Puthussery, programming head of the channel that airs Laughing Villa, says, “The show has film spoofs and skits performed by the children of the age group eight to 13. The skits were themed on old-age homes, the importance of being patriotic etc. The characters played by the kids are of elder people and so their dialogues are no different. However, our message for them is not to behave or talk like this in their real lives.”
 Children now are exposed to a lot of films that have songs, action and drama, says Shamnad. “The majority of the kids in the show are child artistes who work in TV and movie industry. So, we can’t keep them away from such forms of entertainment. Earlier there was a show called   and we had to pull the plug on it as it wasn’t child friendly,” he says.
 
 Actress Pearle Maaney, who had previously anchored Katturumbu, says that words like edi, podi and those that were offensive were removed from the scripts during later episodes of the show. 
 “I have always kept an eye on the scripts so the children don’t have to say it. Even though they perform it on stage, later they use it in daily life. I also found that there is no specific scriptwriter in these shows. It’s treated the same way as any other show and that needs to change,” she says. “There is an audience even for the negativity in children shows, thereby boosting the TRPs, which may be another reason why the makers are turning a blind eye to the inappropriate content.”
 
 However, not all audiences are convinced with the quality of the shows. Anu Rangith, a homemaker from Thiruvananthapuram, says, “I am a mother of a three-year-old. Children love to see such types of shows. However, I sometimes don’t encourage my child to watch them as even I find it difficult to digest the dialogues or scenes that the children perform. I wonder how their parents are all for this even if it’s in the name of entertainment and kids adorn elders’ attires and talk like them. This way we are making them lose their innocence and also the best part of their childhood is spent on shooting sets, filming for hours which is more like child abuse.”
 There are certain norms passed in the Child Labour Prohibition and Regulation Amendment Rules 2017 to regulate the content and working time of child artistes.
 
 Shobha Koshy, former chairperson of Kerala State Commission for Protection of Child Rights, says, “It’s clearly mentioned that no child shall be allowed to work for more than five hours in a day, and for not more than three hours without rest. It is the duty of labour department to routinely check if the norms are followed by the channels.”
 
 Shobha also stresses the need for a TV censorship to check the content, especially of children’s shows. “It is the duty of the channel to ensure that the show maintains the dignity and preserves the innocence of the children,” she says. 
 
 Meanwhile, Rekha mentions that inappropriate content in TV shows can be taken off only if the sponsors of the respective shows put their foot down. “The TRP rating is an important factor for a programme. The sponsors who are corporate companies can also check the content and if it is not child friendly, then they should deny sponsorship. It is also their social responsibility to assure the quality of the show.”
 
