BENGALURU: Chief minister HD  , who took oath on Wednesday, was not just calling on national leaders in the past four days, but was also visiting temples.

 
 The state’s new CM visited nine temples spread over five districts in   and one in neighbouring  . In fact, just hours before his swearing in, Kumaraswamy and his wife   visited   temples in   and Ramanagara, besides visiting the Suttur Mutt in Mysuru. In Ramanagar, he also visited the Balamuri Ganapathi temple, besides going to Our Lady of Lourdes church and the Manqabat e-Hazrat Peeran Shah Vali dargah.
 
 Soon after BS Yeddyurappa resigned from the post of CM on Saturday, Kumaraswamy, along with his brother HD  , left for Trichy in the early hours of Sunday. The brothers visited the temple in Srirangam.
 
 On Monday, they were to arrive at Holenarasipura in Hassan district at 7.30am and visit the Lakshmi-Narasimha temple. However, they arrived only after 9am after Revanna reportedly advised against landing in Holenarasipura during Rahu Kala(7.30am to 9am) as it is considered inauspicious. Next, Kumaraswamy visited three temples — Shiva temple, Mavinakere Ranganatha temple and Yelimalaka temple — in Hardanahalli in Hassan.
 
 The next day, he visited the Sringeri temple and mutt in Chikkamagalur district and Dharmasthala temple in  . After his visit to Sringeri, Kumaraswamy said his family has been visiting the temple for 50 years and that he goes there for “peace of mind”. Incidentally, the family had performed a special puja (maha chandika yaga) before the elections in the same temple.
 
 “You will see a lot of this in this regime. Siddaramaiah may have visited many temples in the run-up to elections, which was purely political, but during his regime he remained rational, clearly separating religion from governance,” said MB Adinarayana, a political observer.
 
 According to reports, Kumaraswamy, in reply to the Suttur seer’s question on his temple run, is said to have replied: “I do need the blessings of god, no?”
 
