MUMBAI:   cases on the city’s suburban railway network increased by 29% last year compared to 2016. Activists said one of the reasons for the rise in number of cases is social media providing a platform for many victims to narrate their stories, thereby nudging authorities to take action.

 Across Maharashtra, too, molestation cases on trains increased 12% year-on-year. There were more cases of rape and molestation recorded under the Mumbai Government Railway Police (GRP) commissionerate than the Pune and Nagpur commissionerates together.
 
 “The reason for the increase in numbers is our zero tolerance policy towards incorrect recording of offences. If we don’t record a case, the offender will never get caught and punished,” said additional director general ( ) Jaijeet Singh. He added that a majority of the cases had already been solved.
 
 Last year, 97 molestation cases were recorded on the city’s railway network and 121 on the entire state railway. Ten cases of rape were recorded on the city’s   in 2017. “Earlier, there was shame attached to the victim of a crime. But the taboo is slowly fading and this is making a big difference to why more women are reporting such crimes,” said Nandita Shah of the NGO, Akshara. “We have worked with the railways on its helpline 182. Initially, the calls received were about lost luggage or   enquiries,” added Shah. “But recently, the helpline has been receiving complaints about flashing, groping or lewd comments. There is also a lot more awareness among women now on how to seek help.”
 
 But disabled rights activist Fatima D’Souza said victims’ experience with the helpline has rarely been satisfactory. “The helpline is rarely able to zero in on the location of the woman in distress and it’s too late by the time help is sent,” she said, adding that women are often harassed in disabled coaches. “Pregnant women are targeted the most in the disabled coaches. I have seen pregnant women complaining to RPF personnel about being stalked,” said D’Souza.
 
 Most women are harassed or feel uncomfortable on foot over-bridges, said Shah. “We have pointed out to the railways that the presence of securitymen is essential for women’s safety. In fact, we had identified the Elphinstone Road over-bridge, which had witnessed a horrific stampede on September 29 that claimed 23 lives, as unsafe for women. On platforms too, we need bright lights and proper signage. If there are large signs on platforms indicating where ladies coach will halt, women won’t have to run around on crowded platforms looking for the compartment, thus reducing chances of harassment,” she explained.
 
 Activist Sameer Zaveri suggested that using technology, like installing CCTV cameras in ladies coaches, could serve as a deterrent. “But nothing works like visible policing. The presence of uniformed cops on platforms during the day and inside ladies coaches at night can bring down crimes against women. Currently, there are only 3,800 GRP personnel.”
 
 
