CHENNAI: An all-party meeting convened by DMK to discuss the   issue urged the Centre to constitute the   with independent powers. A resolution also asked the state government to ensure that Cauvery water is released for farmers during the current kuruvai (short term paddy) season. The meeting was held at DMK headquarters Anna Arivalayam in Chennai and lasted for more than an hour. A total of five resolutions were passed at the meeting. 

 The first resolution thanked people for their support in the protests on Cauvery issue since February when the Supreme Court delivered its final judgment. The second resolution condemned the Centre for not constituting an authority with independent powers. The third resolution wanted the government to take urgent steps to release water from Mettur dam on June 12 for delta farmers to cultivate short-term paddy crop. 
 
 “All party leaders have been stressing that the government must take urgent steps to open the Mettur dam on June 12. But if the government does not respond to the demands, the all party meeting will decide on the next course of action,” said  . 
 
 Apart from the Cauvery issue, the meeting also discussed and passed a resolution against alleged imposition of Sanskrit in school education. “The Centre is trying to re-introduce gurukul system and along with that Sanskrit. This is highly condemnable and a resolution was passed in the meeting against this,” said Stalin. 
 
 Opposition party leaders have been voicing their concern over proposed changes to the civil services exam. “The Centre wants to bring about changes to the IAS and IPS exams. The move, which will decide on selection and allotment of state cadre based on marks gained in the 100-day foundation course to be conducted in Mussoorie, is against social justice and would be unfair to tribals, scheduled and backward classes,” Stalin said. A fifth resolution opposed this. 
 
  chief S Thirunavukkarasar, CPM state secretary  , CPI state secretary R Mutharasan,   chief Vaiko, VCK chief  , Muslim League leader Khader Mohideen and DK leader K Veeramani participated in the meeting. 
 
 
