VIJAYAWADA: Firmly extinguishing any chances of rapprochement with estranged ally   (TDP) before the 2019 Lok Sabha election,   chief   has accused   chief minister N   of acting due to political considerations rather than concern about the state’s development.

 In a nine-page letter addressed to Naidu, Shah has said TDP’s “unilateral” decision has little to do with developmental concerns aired by the CM and says the Centre has not only fulfilled its statutory obligations under the AP reorganisation act, but gone further to ensure the state’s financial health.
 
 Shah described TDP’s decision to pull out of   as “both unfortunate and unilateral” and dropped broad hints about funds diversion by AP government. It’s a decision I am afraid will be construed as being guided wholly and solely by political considerations instead of developmental concerns”.
 
 The BJP chief described Naidu’s charge as untrue that “BJP is not sensitive to aspirations of the people of AP and has not implemented provisions of AP Reorganisation Act”. The Centre has gone far beyond the Act to ensure financial stability of the state, Shah said.
 
 
 Naidu retaliated in the AP Assembly while reading out Shah’s letter. He told the house: “The letter is misleading and is replete with lies and halftruths. Shah is trying to blame the state government and people with concocted facts on AP’s claims and Centre’s support. This letter is not for me. It insults the people. I want everyone to read and react. “If   is blamed for doing injustice through bifurcation, BJP is doing injustice after bifurcation.”
 
 
 Rebutting Shah’s claim sentence by sentence, Naidu said his decision to quit the alliance was not political. He said he took the decision after waiting for four years and in the interest of state’s development. “I visited Delhi 29 times, met the Prime Minister, finance minister and explained to them about AP’s development needs. I have also time and again requested them to lend a helping hand to the state till we reach a level-playing field,” he said.
 
 
 Shah on his part hinted at corruption by TDP government. “Why didn’t your government respond to Centre’s suggestion of setting up a special purpose vehicle for directly receiving NABARD funds as desired by your government. Is it because it poses problems in diverting funds for ‘other’ purposes?”
 
