NEW DELHI: A 200-metre, three-lane   that was to have become the new entry point for both the railway station and inter-state bus terminal at Anand Vihar has pitted the transport and railway authorities against each other. The tussle over ownership and usage of the road led to an ugly showdown on Tuesday night and police had to be called in to pacify the contenders.

 
  
  
 
 
 The road, which is yet to be opened to the public, starts at Chaudhry Charan Singh Marg 50 metres from Anand Vihar   and terminates near the  . The Delhi Transport Infrastructure Development Corporation (DTIDC), which operates the bus terminal, wants to use the road as a secondary entry point to the bus terminal. The railways, on the other hand, plans to use the road as an alternative entry to the railway station there. While the   built the concrete road, DTIDC contends that it owns the land on which the road was laid and so had usage rights to it.
 
 “This stretch of land was lying unused and was contributing to pollution. So the Supreme Court-appointed Environment Pollution Prevention and Control Authority directed that a road should be built here to create alternative entry to the bus terminal given that the main entry remained congested and led to vehicular emission and pollution,” maintained a DTIDC official. “We plan to use the new road as one-way entry for inter-state buses, while the existing entry point will be used by local buses.”
 
 On Tuesday, DTIDC tried to demolish a boundary division on the road to create an entry point towards the bus terminal. Railway officials and Railway Protection Force personnel reached the spot and tried to stop the demolition. As a counter measure, DTIDC officials called in Delhi Police.
 
 The demolition work was halted, and RN Singh, divisional railway manager, Delhi, said DTIDC should have sought permission first before starting to break the boundary wall. “We constructed the road, but now they are claiming it,” alleged Singh.
 
 A DTIDC official retorted, “The railways did build the road but they did without permission after taking over 2,000 square metre of land that belongs to the bus terminal.” He said DTIDC would approach the central government over this encroachment. The corporation’s managing director KK Dahiya said later that they would seek financial compensation for the land used for the road.
 
 Singh, however, countered this by claiming that the land was allotted to it in 2001. “The land was given temporarily to the railways and DTIDC is trying to reoccupy it now despite having given an undertaking that it would be opened for public use.”
 
 Despite the acrimony over the ownership and usage of the land, Singh said that the railways would come up with a way out that would meet the needs of both the train station and the bus terminal. “We are planning to demarcate one lane of the road for ISBT traffic and two lanes for those coming to the railway station,” Singh said. “This should prove a win-win condition for everyone.” He added that a meeting would be held shortly to sort out the tangles.
 
 
