DEHRADUN: After executing one of the most sensational murders the city has seen in recent times,  , 55, accused of brutally killing her stepdaughter, 21-year-old Prapti Singh, and hacking her body into two, claimed she had “no regrets for the act.” Kaur, who was produced in court and sent to jail on Saturday, told the cops that “both Prapti and her father   had made my life miserable for the past 18 years.”
 
  The body of Prapti, an aspiring airhostess, was discovered on Friday from her house in the   area of the city. A few days earlier, Kaur had filed a complaint with the police claiming that Prapti had been missing since February 7.
  
  Pradeep Rai, SP (City) who was involved in Kaur’s interrogation, told TOI, “During our questioning, Kaur admitted to the crime but maintained that she had no qualms over what she did. She added that she did not have children of her own and instead focused on bringing up Prapti. But despite that, Prapti never regarded her as a mother and humiliated her in public for being a stepmother.”
  
  Kaur’s first husband was a doctor who had died in a bomb explosion in Assam a few decades ago. She had thereafter married Singh, a property dealer, whose first wife had died when Prapti was about one year old.
  
  Kaur told the cops that on Singh’s request, she gave up her job as a teacher and focused only on her family. After her husband’s death in 2016, the family’s finances were being managed by Prapti as per her father’s wishes. “Kaur claimed she was given only a paltry sum of Rs 2,000 a month by her daughter to manage her expenses which further increased her frustration and hatred,” Rai said.
  
  On whether it was possible for Kaur to single-handedly execute the crime, Rai said, “Initially, we did not think so but after questioning the accused for hours, it appears that no one else was involved in the crime. Before admitting the crime, Kaur was shy and hesitant but after accepting the murder, she became firm and appeared a completely different woman altogether, confidently asserting that she had no regrets.”
  
  Meanwhile, relatives of the family were shell-shocked at the murder.  , a cousin of Prapti, said, “She was a lively girl who was deeply attached to her father. We can’t believe that her life would end like this.” Her uncle   who works in a bank, echoed similar sentiments. “We were aware there were differences between Prapti and her stepmother but it’s difficult to believe someone could be so barbaric in killing a child.”
  
  The youngster’s posts on Facebook, her relatives added, also reflected that she continued to miss her father after his death. One of her posts on her Facebook page said, “I wish heaven had visiting hours, #mylove #mylife, there is nothing without u! #imissuuusomuch.” She had also made her father’s photo as the cover photo of her Facebook profile.
  
  Her body was consigned to flames on Saturday after a post-mortem.
