PUDUCHERRY:   Kiran Bedi on Thursday hit out at chief minister V   for demanding her resignation, asking him to understand that ‘one resigns from a job, not a mission’.

 Bedi in a WhatsApp message said she is on a mission to make Puducherry a prosperous, clean, water-rich, financially secure, skilled and responsive territory and urged him to join her in the mission instead of asking her to step down if he loves Puducherry.
 
 She said if she is not on a mission why would she spend every weekend with the team Raj Nivas and officers of the departments concerned visiting rural areas (in the last two years) in need of resources and attention such as drains or ponds or rivers or bed dams that needed to be cleaned of filth and garbage. She said the team visited places – like abandoned lakes and water bodies – that can be revived.
 
 She said the team took adequate efforts to ensure that the public money was spent with prudence and not wasted. She said the team took measures to ensure that the poor man’s money was not ‘corrupted/diverted’ and to hold open house sessions daily at Raj Nivas to redress the grievances of the people and prevent exploitation of medical students.
 
 “Whatever is being done is because it is the right thing to do. In fact, we need to do much more. That will happen if you (Narayanasamy) join in. So instead of asking me to stop doing, join me if you Love Puducherry. Become a part of #MissionProsperousPuducherry,” she said.
 
 Narayanasamy on Wednesday demanded Bedi to ‘resign on moral grounds’ as, according to him, the ‘Union government had lost faith in her and overruled her decisions while upholding the cabinet’s decisions’.
 
 He said the Union government in the latest overruling rejected the terms and conditions imposed by Bedi for extending the tenures of chairpersons of various boards and corporations in Puducherry.
 
 Earlier, the Union government had overruled her decision of setting conditions for waiving farm loans. The Election commission of India stayed her order suspending an official over posting an objectionable video in an official WhatsApp group in January last year. She was also criticised for seeking the   to initiate action against the territorial officials for failing to initiate efforts to keep the territory neat and clean.
 
 “This is not the first time the Union government has overruled the administrator’s (lieutenant governor) decision. The administrator’s decisions had been overruled thrice… She must resign on moral grounds. There are several such instances wherein the governors, including the lieutenant governor of New Delhi, had stepped down after losing the confidence of the Union government,” he had said.
 
 
