MANGALURU: The pitched campaigns of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and BJP national president Amit Shah in the coast have decimated the Congress into oblivion in these parts, especially in the key districts of Dakshina Kannada and Udupi. The BJP onslaught left nine sitting MLAs lose by good margins. Of the 19 seats in the three coastal districts of Dakshina Kannada, Udupi and Uttara Kannada, BJP has won 16.

 While six sitting MLAs, including a minister, lost in Dakshina Kannada, a minister and two sitting MLAs lost to BJP candidates in Udupi. The BJP reversed the 2013 trend of the Congress by winning 7-1 in Dakshina Kannada. Congress was only able to hold on to Mangaluru City (U T Khader), among the eight constituencies. The BJP defeated the Congress 5-0 in Udupi district.
 
 Khader was the only saving grace for Congress in Dakshina Kannada, retaining his seat for the fourth time in a row, with S Angara from Sullia winning the ST constituency for a record sixth time. All the sitting MLAs lost against newbies from the BJP: Vedavyas Kamath (Mangaluru City South) won against J R Lobo of Congress, Harish Poojnja (Belthangady) won against veteran Vasanth Bangera and Dr Bharath Shetty trounced sitting MLA Mohiudeen Bava by a large margin. BJP’s Sanjeev Matanduru who lost against Congress candidate Shakuntala Shetty in 2013, won against her in Puttur this time around, as did Umanath Kotian, against sitting MLA Abhayachandra Jain, by impressive margins.
 
 The most telling blow came in Udupi with sitting MLA and minister Pramod Madhwaraj, rated as the best MLA in the state, losing to the BJP’s Raghupathi Bhat. The key constituency of Bhatkal also saw Congress candidate Mankala Subba Vaidya, who had won as an Independent in 2013, lose against Sunil Naik of the BJP. However, Haliyal backed its sitting MLA and minister R V Deshpande against Sunil Hegde of the BJP. It is the eighth victory for Deshpande in Haliyal. He has been winning the constituency since 1983, and had lost to Sunil Hegde once (in 2008). Former minister Vishweshwar Kageri of the BJP won the assembly election for a sixth time in a row from Sirsi. Earlier, he had won the election from Ankola constituency on three occasions, and with Tuesday’s victory he has won from Sirsi for the third time. In Yellapur assembly constituency, sitting MLA and Congress candidate Shivaram Hebbar scrapped through with a narrow margin on 1,483 votes.
 
  who contested in Mangaluru City South and former police officer Anupama Shenoy who contested from Kaup constituency in Udupi district failed to make an impact, getting less than 2,000 votes each.
 
 Observers indicate this to consolidation of pro-BJP votes, with BJP leaders repeatedly raising issues of safety of their workers and by highlighting the murders of their party workers. P L Dharma, a professor of political science, believes that more anti-incumbency happened than was previously estimated, and than the campaigning by Amit Shah and Modi seems to have worked here. “It is not that chief minister Siddaramaih was not supported by the people, but he did not have the base to counter Modi. We have to include a different language of inclusiveness. Perhaps the CM failed in this count,’’ he said, adding that the youth want a good future and do not want politicians to nit-pick on others faults, like the Congress did.
 
 
