MOHALI: The road leading to   village in Nayagaon in Mohali has been dug up and turned into virtual death traps. The residents regret the fact that despite the Punjab and   high court orders to include the area along Karoran and Nada villages under the municipal committee, the residents are still waiting for the implementation of the orders. 

 While parts of area of the villages Karoran and Nada were brought under the ambit of the Nagar Panchayat or municipal committee of Nayagaon, there are still many residents who are not even getting the basic amenities. The plight of the people is pathetic and the residents are suffering at the hands of the local government that has chosen to ignore their grievances for close to two decades. 
 
 Cheranjeev Raturi, a resident of the area said that a number of representations, petitions and writs have been filed from time to time, but the local government is silent on the issue.
 
 The residents believe that they have been living in a place which is situated next to one of the country's best cities, but the residents are at the mercy of the municipal officers, said Cheranjeev.
 
 Shamsher Singh another resident while explaining the HC orders said that on February 20, 2017, the high court issued a notice to the state on the grievances faced by local residents due to non-inclusion of the villages within the Municipal limits. Shamsher said, "Problems like no sanctioned plans for construction of houses, no installation of sewerage plant, no roads, non-provision of basic amenities even after close proximity to Chandigarh and no steps for prevention of diseases were all highlighted in the notice."
 
 Even after all this, the local bodies department did nothing for over 9 months and instead filed an appeal against the order dated May 2, 2017, on the grounds that the state of Punjab lacked necessary funds. 
 
 While dismissing the appeal of the  , the HC opined, "On due consideration, we are of the opinion that the direction given would only enhance public interest as the residents of the area would benefit from development. It is no secret that these areas fall in close proximity to the city Chandigarh. Any hap-hazard development could not be in the interest of the city itself." Now that all facts and figures are in place, it is hoped that the department will not make any further delay and understand the aspirations of the residents. 
 
 
