SHIMLA: Amid protests by residents of  , the Himachal Pradesh government has created a new sub-division at   and one sub-tehsil   in Mandi district.

 The new sub-division would constitute the entire Thunag tehsil along with five patwar circles of newly created sub-tehsil Chhatri and one patwar circle of Balichoki tehsil from Chachiot sub-division.
 
 In an official statement, the state government said the headquarters of the new sub-division (civil) Thunag would be at Thunag. Patwar circles namely Kanda Bagsaid, Shikawari, Thunag, Ropa, Lambathach, Chiuni, Shillibagi, Kaliper, Shivakhad, Shawa, Jarol, Janjheli, Shilhigad and   of Thunag tehsil, Patwar circle Utri-Magru, Dakshini-Magru, Mangarh, Bagdathach and   of newly-created Chhatri sub-tehsil and Gadagusain patwar circle of Bali Chawki tehsil of sub-division (civil) Chachiot have been included in this new sub-division.
 
 The government said for the convenience of people of the area, the sub-divisional officer (civil) Thunag would sit for four days in a month invariably at Janjehli to dispose of urgent works. Similarly, the sub-divisional officer (civil) Chachiot at Gohar in Mandi district would sit for four days in a month at Bali Chawki in Mandi district to dispose of urgent works.
 
 It further said a new sub-tehsil Chhatri has been created including patwar circle of Utri-Magru, Dakshini-Magru, Mangarh, Bagdathach and Baryogi patwar circle of Thunag tehsil with its headquarter at Chhatri.
 
 In a judgment on January 4, the division bench of acting Chief Justice   and Justice   of the Himachal Pradesh high court had quashed June 27, 2016 notification regarding creation of the sub-division at Janjehli and April 21, 2016 notification regarding creation of new sub-tehsil at Chhatri.
 
 The court had said most of the population is towards Thunag. Geographically, Thunag is well connected. Even climatically, it is Thunag which is best suited, the HC had said. During winters Janjehli, quite often, is covered by snow, making things difficult from the viewpoint of administration, the court had added.
 
 
