 TNN

 LUCKNOW: Their happiness about scoring well in the Class XII examinations of   ( ) notwithstanding, most high scorers in the city regretted that they were not able to score a perfect 100 in all five subjects.
 
 
 In most schools, the scene remained the same—students being congratulated, parents gleaming with pride and teachers busy heaping compliments on meritorious students.
 
 Between the high-fives and celebration, students were seen asking about each others’ marks and how short they were of scoring full 500 marks—getting a 100 in all five subjects.
 
 “Just eight marks more and I would have scored a perfect 500. I missed scoring a 100 in mathematics and chemistry by a mark and fell three marks short in English and physics. I got 100 only in computer science,” said   of   (RLB) School, who got 98%.
 
 Another student of the school,   , said “I was expecting that I will fall short of 500 by at least 30 marks but I couldn’t believe when I got 486. I was just 14 marks away from striking five centuries.”
 
 While some students were busy comparing their scores, others were happy with the fact that they got the same number of marks as their friends in all subjects.
 
 “My happiness doubled when three of my friends also scored the same number of marks. We refer to ourselves as the ‘94% club’ when,” said Vedant Agarwal of Delhi Public School, Eldeco branch.
 
 “Just imagine, 16 students from different branches of the same school scored 96 %. We met during an inter-branch competition and talked about how we were preparing but we never thought that we would end up scoring the same number of marks,” said Aditi Gupta of RLB School.
 
 Then there were students who were pleasantly surprised about how the results turned out. “I was scared that I might not be able to get a 100 in mathematics. However, my hard work paid off and I got a perfect 100 in the subject,” said Om Pandey of SKD Academy, who scored 95%.
 
 For Lucknow Public School’s Arshika it was her father who told her that her friend and she had scored the same. “My father said it’s time for us to party together as both of us had scored 95%,” she said. Most high scorers in the city said the that they believed in self study and classroom teaching.
 
 
