Ludhiana: The city gave a rousing reception to its pride, weightlifter Vikas Thakur, who won a bronze medal in the 94kg weight category in Gold Coast Commonwealth Games. But the district administration, sports department and the local politicians remained absent from the victory celebration on Sunday morning. 

 When Thakur’s family and friends reached Ludhiana railway station with garlands and dhol, not a single representative of the sports department or the local administration was present to receive the champion. The family spent Rs 70,000 to welcome him. 
 
 In Glasgow Commonwealth Games in 2014 too, Vikas Thakur, 24, had won a silver medal for the country in 85kg category by lifting a total of 333kg weight. This time, he participated in the 94kg category and lifted a total 351kg weight, 159kg snatch and 192kg clean and jerk, and won a bronze. 
 
 After he made the country proud, the President, the Prime Minister and sports legends like Sachin Tendulkar and Virendra Sehwag congratulated Thakur on Twitter. But the weightlifter and his family did not receive a call from the state government or the administration. 
 
 Thakur reached Ludhiana by Shatabdi at 11.30am to the beats of dhol. As soon as he alighted, his friends lifted him and cheered for him. Special arrangements were made for the celebration at home.
 
 Thakur said, “Before going to Gold Coast, I promised my family that this time I will change the colour of medal. It changed but to bronze. I was confident of winning a gold medal, but the competition was really tough. I am satisfied with my performance.”
 
 “I have been receiving wishes from everywhere. I saw the tweets of some prominent national personalities, but did not receive a single message from the state government or the local administration,” he added.
 
 His father, Brij Lal Thakur, said, “My son has again made me proud. It is unfortunate that no one from the state government, the district administration or the sports department wished us. If it were a cricketer, the reaction would have been different. Such kind of treatment demotivates players.”
 
 Deputy commissioner Pradeep Agarwal said, “I had no intimation about the arrival of Vikas Thakur.” When asked about not wishing the weightlifter and his family even on phone, he replied, “It is ok.” 
 
 MLA (North) Rakesh Panday said, “We had no information about Vikas’s home coming else we would have welcomed him.”
 
 Vikas’ father said he had called up district sports officer Kartar Singh and invited him to the celebration. “Singh had said he would come to welcome Vikas. But he gave the event a miss,” he added. 
 
 Singh could not be contacted despite repeated attempts. 
 
 
