Chennai: The move to install smart traffic system, GPS-driven bus services and ICT based traffic information for commuters under intelligent transport system (ITS) received a fillip as Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) on Monday signed an agreement with the Government of India to fund Rs 500 crores for the project. The project will be set up as part of the smart city project.

 The funding would go to setting up the ITS with three main features- traffic management system, bus systems and traffic information system.
 
 In a release, JICA said that the objective of the project for installation of Chennai Metropolitan Area Intelligent Transport Systems is to construct an efficient traffic system to meet the increasing traffic demands in Chennai Metropolitan area by installing ITS and mitigate traffic congestion and improve economic growth. “Once the project becomes operational, citizens of Chennai and adjacent areas will experience improved travel speed in the city center and reduced queues at intersections,” the release said.
 
 Chennai Smart City Limited is the executing agency of the project. Takemo Sakamoto, chief representative, JICA India office said the project would optimize the way traffic lights work and reduce long vehicle queues at the city’s main intersections. The project will also provide traffic information visual message signs or LED display boards to road and bus users.
 
 “Traffic in Chennai has risen steeply with rapid urbanization and the city is prone to heavy traffic jams. While metro trains are one of the solutions, we are taking another step forward by introducing this new project to enhance mobility through the help of ICT based system,” he said.
 
 The statment further said, “The ITS based traffic control system will benefit all road users, from private vehicle users to users of public transport, cyclists and even pedestrians. This project will be implemented within the right-of-way on the existing road network in Chennai, and will not affect the city’s natural or social environment,” the release said.
 
 Sujan R Chinoy, ambassador of India to Japan and Junichi Yamada, senior vice president, JICA signed the loan agreement at the Likura House of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Tokyo.
 
 JICA had already funded Rs 11,000 crores as loans since 2008 for the development of around 52.4km metro rail system in the city.
 
 eom/tejon
 
 
