Who would’ve imagined that a station on the railway track of Mumbai would bring to mind the fictional world of Themyscira? Yes, you read that right. Just like Wonder Woman’s island home,   Central Railway Station is run by women only. They may not be Amazonian in built, but they are in spirit — enterprising, tough and resilient. 
Known as ‘India’s first all-women run station’, the station lends a quaint charm to the maze of the railway network in Mumbai — often referred to as the lifeline of the city. The city’s railway chief also finds it to be one of the best examples of smooth functioning. “We are proud of these ladies,” says  , general manager of Central Railway, who’s the brain behind this concept. 
 “We keep talking about  , but we have to actually get out there and let the women take charge. And they’ve shown us all that they’re doing a fine job of it,” he adds. Right from its operations to commerce, security and service – the all-women team make sure the station functions like a well-oiled engine. The team, which took up the reins last year, is now fully staffed with a female station manager, ticket checkers, RPF cops, train announcers and more. 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 It’s admirable to see how the team copes with the challenges of the job, especially given Mumbai’s legendary rush hour. From early morning, you will find the staff – 42 in all – in crisp uniform, ready to take on the day’s challenges. Announcer Priya Kattel’s voice comes over the mic right at 7.00 am as she makes the first few calls for arriving trains. “It feels great to be here, 
 ,” she says, snatching some time to talk. 
 The four ticket windows, handle daily footfalls of close to 6,500 passengers. Uma Dangre, Chief Booking Officer, says, “It’s a bit like running a house, and we are used to that kind of responsibility,’ she says. She and her team of two juggle everything — from 24-hour cash collections to accounts tally, sending cash to the bank and dispensing tickets, of course. “We catch up with a chat during the break. 
 and having no men around makes us feel freer,” she smiles. 
 The station manager,  , who’s also known to be   division’s first woman station manager in 1992, says she cannot imagine her life without the railway tracks. “I lived near a station at my mother’s home and was so used to hearing passing trains. Now, my marital home is also near a station, and I think unless I hear and see these trains my day doesn’t start,” she laughs. 
 Working with her all-women team, she says, feels like they’re making a difference to the world around them. “Each morning when we gather together, it feels like we are making a real difference together,” she says, adding that a typical day at work involves making rounds, supervising the staff and goings-on.
 It’s not easy either. “In a day, I go from being a station manager to a home maker. I’m up at 4 am for my kids who are having their exams now. Sometimes I return home at Thane quite late, that’s when I think, ‘Oh god, how will I handle this?’ But I manage,” she smiles. 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
 Tough luck if you are passing by ticket-less here. The women   will round you up. No amount of pleading or excuses works here. Says head ticket collector, Jayshee Sanjay Mane, “
 , but we don’t let them go. Matunga has so many colleges and many of the passengers are students. They tell us, ‘Aunty, 
 ,’ but we don’t pay heed to them, they have to pay a penalty. They must learn that travelling without ticket is wrong,” she says. 
 Anyone behaving indecently is rounded up by the RPF women personnel on duty, Jyoti Singh and her team of women constables who guard the four platforms. “We look out for anyone with any kind of deviant behaviour. There is no question of tolerating that here,” says Jyoti.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 The station functions 24 hours, so does the nocturnal hour pose a challenge? Admits one of the women ticket collectors, “Initially at night, we used to get a little scared in the ticket booth, but we are used to it now.” For some women, this job meant entering new territory. For instance, point-persons Namita Patil and Anita Jawale had never attended accident cases, but have now learnt to deal with run-over cases. “It makes you tougher,” says Mamta. Their life is now centred at this station and there is no place they would rather be than here. “Festivals, weddings, birthdays – all celebrations are here with this family, now” she ends. 
 
 
 
 "The Matunga station is an example of women empowerment. The staff has been handling all operations well and they seem to have streamlined all issues. It is not only a matter of pride for Mumbai, but for every citizen," says 
 Sunil Udasi, Chief PRO, Central Railway.
 
 
 
