India’s magnificent win in the third and final Test of the series will put the team in good heart for the one-day series that starts today. That South Africa will not have the services of   for the first three matches is a further boost to India’s chances of winning the one-day games.

 
 
 
 The batting on a most difficult and unpredictable pitch was tremendous to watch and should dispel once and for ever the myth that Indians can't play pace. The fact of the matter is nobody can play good sustained fast bowling. Even the Don had his problems in the bodyline series and no batsman in the world can put his hand on his heart and say he enjoys playing good fast bowling. At best one can cope with it to the best of one’s ability and that's what the Indians showed at the bullring Wanderers. They showed the gumption, the guts and the determination to take the blows and hang in there. South Africa's batsmen succumbed so can we jump to conclusion and say they can't play pace?
 
  
  
 
 This is what the Indian team selection has to guard against, jumping to conclusions and selecting or leaving out players based on one performance. Theories about pitches and who can bat or bowl on particular surfaces also should be thrown out of the window and the best team selected. The old saying, ‘form is temporary but class is permanent’ holds good as was seen by Ajinkya Rahane’s batting in the second innings of the Test match. That may still not get him a place in the one-day series since he has been slotted as an opening batsman. This is where there's confusion. Rahul opens in Tests but is a middle order batsman for T20 internationals and Rahane bats middle order in Tests but can find a place in one dayers only as an opener. Both may eventually not play but in their interest it's important to tell them that they are flexible players who should be ready to bat anywhere in the order.
 
 
 
 
 
 The Durban pitch is generally good for batting as the ball comes nicely on to the bat. The square boundaries are shorter so the bowlers will have to keep that aspect in mind while bowling. It is a great chance for India to win the one-day series in South Africa for the first time. They have been here for more than a month and so should be prepared for the challenge ahead.
 
