Bengaluru: After drawing flak for describing Asha Devi — mother of Nirbhaya whose gang rape in New Delhi sparked off nationwide outrage in 2012 — as someone with a “very very nice physique”, former Karantaka top cop H T Sangliana said he was misquoted and never said what was attributed to him.

 “If somebody says that I look good or young, I feel nice. Similarly, I was simply complimenting her for God’s gift to her,” Sangliana told TOI on Friday.
 
 Sangliana had made the remark at a March 9 event where Nirbhaya awards were presented to women achievers. Her parents were present at the ceremony. He had said: “When I look at her (Devi), her physique is very, very nice. How beautiful Nirbhaya could have been, if her mother is so well-made by God.”
 
 Speaking minutes after Devi delivered an emotional speech on how nothing much had changed for women even five years after her daughter’s death, Sangliana had said: “If you happen to be so overpowered and you are unable to shout or show any physical resistance, and if it is a question of life and death, you should surrender. Because surrendering will not take your life away, but will help in catching the culprit later on.”
 
 He then proceeded to make matters worse, talking about “people like Nirbhaya, who attracted the attention of miscreants”. The video of Sangliana’s speech has gone viral.
 
 Explaining what he meant a week later, Sangliana said, “These days, women are vulnerable, and must be on the lookout constantly, as miscreants are looking for beautiful women. If it is a life-or-death situation, then the person who is being attacked should surrender as there is a higher chance of them surviving and lodging a case with police.”
 
 “Most of the audience was shocked at the comments and started whispering. Two of the awardees even walked out,” said Anita Cheria, one of the awardees.
 
 “What he said about women and family matters was also irritating. He said, ‘I share opinion and decision-making with my wife. I take into account her opinion, and that is the way it should be. At home, decisions should be taken by both husband and wife, but wives too should be understanding otherwise it doesn’t work’,” she said, quoting him.
 
 ‘Nothing to defend’
 
 Roopa D Moudgil, inspector general of police, home guards and civil defence, who was among the awardees, said, “I was busy attending phone calls and couldn’t hear what Sangliana said. I could only figure out that he said something unusual as a woman next to me wondered aloud what he was speaking. I left early and came to know later about what he had said. There is nothing to defend. What he said was absolutely incorrect.”
 
 
