AHMEDABAD: Amit   and his father Suresh Bhatnagar, the promoters of Vadodara-based Diamond Power Infrastructure Limited — who are accused in a Rs 2,654 crore scam — moved bail pleas before a special   court on Wednesday.   has sought regular bail while his father has filed the bail plea on health grounds. 

 
 In his bail plea, Amit Bhatnagar has said that he was wrongly implicated by the CBI in the case. He argued that there was no complaint or FIR filed against him by bank officials and that the CBI did not follow manadated procedures and registered a case against him. He also the argued that he has so far cooperated in the probe and so should be released on bail.
 
 Suresh Bhatnagar’s bail plea states that he suffers from various age-related ailments so his release should be considered on health grounds. Opposing the bail plea, the CBI submitted that the accused persons’ involvement was established prima facie in the multi-crore scam and as the case was at a critical juncture, their release may affect the probe. The CBI submitted that the accused may flee the country if they are granted bail.
 
 The CBI court may pronounce the order on the bail pleas on May 18. The Bhatnagars have been maintaining since beginning of the probe that the CBI did not follow the right procedures in registering an offence against them. They say the CBI has accused them of cheating 11 banks although there is no complainant. They say it was simply a case of loan default.
 
 The CBI, on the other hand, has invoked the Prevention of Corruption Act in this case, expressing suspicion that bank officials connived with the Bhatnagars in misappropriating public money through bad loans. The CBI said that the bank officials did not report irregularities and illegalities. The CBI said though DPIL’s exaggeration of its projected income to avail of more loans came into the public domain, no official concerned came forward to complain against the company.
 
 It is alleged that  , through its management, had fraudulently availed of credit facilities from a consortium of 11 banks (both public and private) since 2008, leaving behind an outstanding debt of Rs 2,654.40 crore as on June 29, 2016. The loan amount was declared a non-performing asset in 2016-17.
 
 
