Mumbai:   in India gave an average pay increase of a little over 9% during 2017, according to an annual   study by  , a leading global professional services firm. This marks a departure from the double-digit increments given by organisations since the inception of this study. 

 According to a statement, projections for 2018 are also expected to be similar, highlighting increasing prudence and maturity being displayed by companies while finalising pay budgets. The comprehensive study analysed data across over 1,000 companies from more than 20 industries
 
 The study said focus on performance is getting sharper year-on-year. A top performer is getting an average salary increase of a little over 15%, which is about double the pay increase for an average performer. The bell curve, too, is sharpening with a significant drop in the percentage of people in the highest rating. 
 
 Anandorup Ghose, partner at  , said, “Despite an improvement in macro-economic forecasts, salary increases remain at the same level as was projected in the last fiscal. With increasing maturity,   budgets are being realigned towards top performers as opposed to the broader population.”
 
 The study said sectors such as professional services, consumer internet companies, life sciences, automotive and consumer products continue to project a double-digit salary increase for 2018. Consumer internet companies however, over the past three years have seen a significant drop of 250bps (100   = 1 percentage point), from about 13% to a little over 10% projected for 2018. The hi-tech/IT sector, which has gone through a spate of upheavals in recent times, is projecting an average hike of about 10% in 2018. Third-party IT services which provide majority of the employment in India are projecting an average hike of around 6%.“Pay increases are becoming more nuanced. We are increasingly seeing a multitude of factors impacting salary increases such as size of the company, business dynamics within the sub industry, nature of talent requirements and quite obviously, performance,” said Ghose.
 
 According to the report, attrition rate in the country is seeing a continuous downward trend as the overall attrition has come down from an average of 20% in the previous decade to about 16% in 2017.
 
 
