CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and Haryana high court on Monday issued notice to media in charge of the   Randeep Singh   on a plea filed by the Haryana Police seeking withdrawal of additional security cover provided to him by the state.

 According to the state police, 22 guards were deployed with Kaithal MLA Surjewala against the entitlement of 11 security personnel as prescribed in the ‘yellow book.’ The police have also argued that as per the Union ministry of home affairs (MHA) guidelines, a protectee couldn’t be granted double security cover from the state and the Centre.
 
 Justice Amit Rawal issued the notice after hearing an application filed by Maneesh Chaudhary, senior superintendent of police (security), on behalf of Haryana government and the DGP.
 
 Chaudhary submitted that according to the norms, a protectee of ‘Y’ category was entitled to 11 security guards. He submitted as per information received from deputy commissioner of police (SG), New Delhi, through a communication on October 16, 2017, Surjewala was provided 11 security personnel, being a permanent resident of Niti Bagh, New Delhi.
 
 It was stated that Surjewala has also been provided 11 security personnel by the Haryana Police. According to the police, he was having double security by Haryana and a central security agency against the entitlement.
 
 The state has sought directions to withdraw 11 personnel of Haryana Police from Surjewala’s security cover. The state police had to approach the HC for withdrawal of security cover from the Congress leader because Justice Amit Rawal of the HC, in its March 2017, had ordered that in case the Centre or the state deemed it appropriate to change the category of his security cover, permission from the court may be sought.
 
 The matter had reached before the HC after Surjewala had filed a petition before HC demanding security by central paramilitary forces on the grounds that he has threat to his life because of his “proactive role in formation of separate   in Haryana”.
 
 
