PATIALA: The state government is all set to make English (as a medium of learning other subjects) mandatory for the students of primary schools at its upcoming model schools. Following this, the subjects like mathematics and science would be taught in English at all the model schools that are being set up by the state government.

 The move has come at a time when protests with regard to implementation of Punjabi as the first language on signboards at national and state highways are already being held every now and then.
 
 The schools that would be set up in each block would be named as ‘English Medium Schools’ where the students would be taught in the English from the very beginning. The already existing government schools would be upgraded with proper infrastructure.
 
 It was learned that initially, the government had planned to establish four such schools in each block, however, in Patiala the district officials have decided to come up with 10 schools in each block. The meeting in this regard was held on Thursday in the presence of deputy commissioner Kumar Amit and district education officer (elementary)   and other officials.
 
 There are thirteen blocks across Patiala. And with ten schools in each block, the entire district would eventually have 130 such schools.
 
 “We have planned to teach mathematics and science in English to children from the very beginning so that they do not face any problem of terminology in future. Other subjects would be taught in Punjabi,” said district education officer (elementary) Darshan Lal.
 
 “These schools would have better infrastructure, sufficient space and smart classes. We are identifying the schools that can be selected as model schools,” Lal added.Krishan Kumar, Secretary   said, "The decision to teach students in primary classes in the English languages is taken by the Punjab government and we are just implementing it. These schools will be known as English Medium Schools. In each block, these schools will be opened."
 
  Dr Dharamvira Gandhi condemned the move of the state government and called it as unscientific. "The number of research and linguistic scholars have maintained that a child can learn better the other languages if he/she study in the mother-tongue. The children will be able to learn better if they have a base strong enough grammatically in their mother tongue."
 
 
