Panaji: Preparation of the biodiversity database, including a people’s biodiversity register (PBR), for the capital has hit a roadblock and remains in a state of suspension. Nearly two years after The Energy and Resources Institute (TERI) was hired to execute the project for Rs 12 lakh, Corporation of the City of Panaji’s biodiversity management committee has allegedly thwarted the efforts by delaying the inception report submitted by TERI, sources said. After being picked in June 2016 by the Goa state infrastructure development corporation (GSIDC) to prepare the PBR, TERI drafted the inception report and submitted it to the Corporation of the City of Panaji (CCP). The inception report acts as a strategy document which ensures mutual understanding between TERI and CCP’s biodiversity management committee. The inception report also provides a timeline for preparation of the PBR. “In accordance with the sanction order, TERI had submitted the project inception report to GSIDC on August 1, 2016. On request of GSIDC, the report had been immediately sent to the CCP’s biodiversity management committee which asked for clarifications on March 6, 2017,” an official letter written by TERI to GSIDC stated. TERI responded to the comments and suggestions raised by CCP on March 17, 2017, and also sought release of the first installment of the payment amounting to Rs 1,38,574. “Till date, the first installment has not been released. Due to the delay in receiving payment, the project activities have been hampered,” a source said. CCP’s biodiversity management committee has also failed to approve the inception report prepared by TERI. The BMC was headed by former Panaji mayor Surendra Furtado. As per the contract, TERI was supposed to prepare and submit the PBR by June 7, 2017. CCP commissioner Ajit Roy, who is the member secretary of CCP’s biodiversity management committee, confirmed that preparation of the PBR had stopped abruptly. He said that CCP had written to TERI asking if the not-for-profit organization was keen to complete the project.  “It is the responsibility of the biodiversity management committee to get the PBR prepared, but it was GSIDC which appointed TERI to prepare the PBR. I don’t know why TERI stopped after six months of work,” Roy said. Preparation of PBR is mandatory under the Biological Diversity Act, 2002, and is the responsibility of biodiversity management committees or each urban or local governing body. Biodiversity management committees are statutory bodies which have to be constituted by village panchayats and municipal councils under Section 41 of Biological Diversity Act, 2002 and Rule 22 of Biological Diversity Rules, 2004. Infobox * PBR is a register that contains comprehensive information on availability and knowledge of local flora and fauna, their medicinal or any other use associated with the local flora and fauna * Former secretary of the national biodiversity authority C Achalender Reddy said that PBR can serve as evidence in a court of law * GSIDC hired TERI on June 8, 2016, to prepare a biodiversity database, including a PBR * The mayor is chairperson while the CCP commissioner is the member secretary of the biodiversity management committee