KOCHI: CBSE affiliated schools and state board schools usually exist in two different planes with no mutual interaction, especially with the state board and CBSE schools’ managements at constant loggerheads. But two schools have opted another way for the sake of their students.

 Earlier this year, the manager of St Georges High School in   had approached their neighbouring CBSE school,  , to help them with their academic master plan, which aims to improve students’ fluency in English.
 
 Seeing that it would be a great opportunity for their students, Global Public School set up an exchange programme as well as joint activities for their students.
 
 Sreekumar Kartha, dean, Global Public School said initially they are focusing on creating the student interaction system between Class III students. They have planned interactive sessions on weekdays during which the students will engage in activities such as DOLCH wall, Word tree, Say it out loud, Vocab builder, Telltales, AdMad, Citizen Talks, Newsroom, Penpalls, and Choral recital.
 
 "In May, we will have a teacher training session at St Georges High School, which will be followed by a student interactive session,” said Kartha, adding that they plan on setting up meetings between the two school students once every two weeks and they plan to extend the programme to Class IV.
 
 C K Reji, manager, St Georges High School said, “If the students have to benefit then the method must be more organic where they can interact with other students, communicate and build meaningful relationships.”
 
 Kartha also added building relationships with neighbouring schools will also give the student a more holistic understanding of their environment as opposed to being confined to the walls of one’s school.
 
 Deputy director of education ( ), CA Santhosh said that he is not familiar with other collaboration of such sorts between a CBSE and state board school and that it is a great initiative from both sides.
 
 “For primary school students studying in state schools, we had exchange programme called Twinning, which exposed students to different environments and practices,” said Santhosh.
 
 T P M Ibrahim Khan, president of the Kerala CBSE Schools Management Association said that if more schools undertook similar activities it could lead to a positive change.
 
