PUNE: Traffic along Pune-Saswad road crawls, virtually round-the-clock, in the wake of rapid urbanization, increase in the number of vehicles, haphazard parking, illegal vendors, encroachments and the rise in the number of IT companies.

 The worst sufferers are the residents of Hadapsar and its suburbs. They fear that the congestion will increase manifold if widening of roads and the Phursungi flyover is not taken on a priority, keeping in mind the proposed international airport at Purandar.
 
 
  
 
 An official from the civic body’s road department said 50% traffic from Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad will pass through the area once the airport becomes operational at Purandar. “The solution is sixlaning of the existing four-lane Saswad road and construction of pavements,” he said.
 
 Both Pune and rural police are planning to initiate a proposal to improve road infrastructure after conducting a survey of the roads leading to the proposed airport. “Most commuters will travel through Saswad road. We need flyovers, underpasses and bridges to tackle the traffic load. Widening of Saswad road passing through Khadi Machine chowk and the roads between Chakan and Kharadi is also needed,” a police officer said.
 
 Businessman Prakash Shivarkar said, “The congestion will ease only if the   (PMC) removes encroachments from both sides of Saswad road. A ring road from Katraj to Phursungi and Lonikalbhor has been sanctioned, but land acquisition has not taken place at Hadapsar and Saswad.”
 
 Hadapsar police senior inspector Vishnu Pawar said, “A boom in industrial sector will happen at Purandar, Jejuri and Baramati once the work of the new airport commences. Cargo movements will also rise. The roads between Hadapsar and Saswad, Uruli Kanchan and Jejuri and Yavat and Malshiras need to be widened at the earliest.”
 
 The ministry of defence (MoD) has given conditional clearance to the proposed Purandar airport, provided the flight route is re-arranged and other technical issues are resolved.
 
 According to the information provided by a government source, the MoD had raised some concerns on the   (AAI)'s report and followed it up with several discussions with all the stakeholders from the state government.
 
 The detailed project report (DPR) of the proposed international airport is expected by the end of April, while the   would soon weigh the probability of extending the Metro service up to the facility.
 
 Activist Prashant Surse said the mushrooming wholesale garments shops, warehouses, godowns, malls and business establishments were adding more load on Saswad road as the traffic flow has multiplied without any designated parking lots at Tukainagar phata and Ganganagar and Bhekrainagar chowks. Besides, there’s no traffic regulation at Phursungi flyover and Mantarwadi chowk.
 
 He added, “We have urged PMC to install more signals, dividers and speedbreakers and close the punctures along the roads. But till date nothing has happened.”
 
 Balsaheb Harpale, nominated member of the Maharashtra Council of Indian Medicine, said, “The rise in the number of residential complexes has increased population in the area. Vehicles have increased but the width of Saswad road is same as it was a decade ago.
 
 Amol Harpale, member of the Pune district planning committee, said, “The stretch between Alandi and Pandharpur was declared a ‘palkhi road’ in the development plan 25 years ago. But till date the road has not been developed. The ring road project has also remained on paper.
 
 PMC corporator Vaishali Bankar said, “We have requested the   to hand over Uruli Devachi phata road to the civic body for maintenance. We will soon initiate a proposal to improve infrastructure after identifying the bottlenecks to ease congestion on Saswad road.”
 
 Water resources and water conservation minister and   from Purandar Vijay Shivtare said, “We will improve the road connectivity for motorists travelling along Pune-Solapur road, Pune-Satara road and the Kondhwa-Katraj bypass to Purandar. We will also initiate the process for constructing the ring road and farmers, whose properties will be acquired, will be given floor space index. The construction of international airport is one of the major steps taken by the government to develop Pune. The project will benefit people from 15 districts, including Pune.”
 
 JD Kalaskar, senior inspector and in charge of Hadapsar traffic division, said, “We have submitted a proposal to the Pune administration to install traffic signals at Mantarwadi chowk, Phursungi arch and Tukaidarshan to curb congestion on Sasawad road.”
 
 
