BENGALURU: The state capital, which stuck to its reputation of housing indifferent voters on May 12, may have saved the   some embarrassment by allowing the party to maintain its tally even though it lost several seats across the state. Bengaluru Urban constituency, including Anekal, has maintained  , electing 13 Congress candidates, the same as 2013, 11 from BJP, which had 12 last time, and two from JD(S), which saw three candidates win in 2013.

 Two constituencies — Rajarajeshwari Nagar, where polling was deferred to May 28 due to malpractices, and Jayanagar, where election was countermanded after the death of the BJP candidate though no fresh date has been announced — are yet to go to poll.
 
 Although the parties have managed to maintain their tallies, Congress faced a shock with Priya Krishna, the richest candidate in the fray in the state, having lost to veteran politician V Somanna, who had defected from Congress to BJP in 2008 during Operation Kamala. He subsequently lost the 2009 bypolls from Govindarajnagar to Priya.
 
 Political observers, while stating that the 2009 loss had pushed Bengaluru strongman Somanna into oblivion, expressed surprise over his victory this time around. A sitting MLC, Somanna, who had lost multiple times, may have won based on the Lingayat vote consolidation. 
 
 Observers said there was sympathy for Somanna. Having been a minister in multiple governments, he had contributed to the city, but had for many reasons been pushed out after he resigned in 2009. This time, the otherwise strong Vokkaliga bastion failed in adding numbers to Priya, while Lingayats and others together boosted Somanna’s margin.
 
 Umesh Shetty, corporator, Govindarajnagar, said: “We (Vijayanagar and Govindarajnagar constituencies) were charged with match-fixing and allowing the father and son duo of M Krishnappa and Priya Krishna to win. Today, we’ve shown this is not the case. While the sympathy factor worked, it was also a concerted effort from all corporators in the constituency.” Interestingly, M Krishnappa also trailed in the initial rounds of counting, but eventually won with a margin of 8,222 votes.
 
 Congress also lost in Chickpet, with RV Devaraj making way for BJP’s Uday Garudachar. The party, however, offset these losses with victories in Chamarajpet (BZ Zameer Ahmed) and Pulakeshinagar (R Akhanda Srinivasmurthy), both delivered by rebel JD(S) candidates roped in by Siddaramaiah. 
 
 Harish Narasappa, founder, Daksh, said: “Status quo has been maintained in Bengaluru because the same candidates win leaving little choice for the people. Also, a party like AAP is blowing hot and cold with no effort to contest BBMP elections and only half-hearted attempts in the Vidhana Sabha polls.”
 
 JD(S), which lost Chamarajpet and Pulakeshinagar, managed to retain Mahalakshmi Layout, while wresting T Dasarahalli from BJP. Political observer NK Mohan Ram said: “While the roadshows by Congress president Rahul Gandhi and BJP chief Amit Shah in the last phase helped their respective parties, JD(S) had no presence. Also, Congress’ development work, including better infrastructure in some areas, may have helped the party retain some seats.”
 
 
