SURAT: At least 100 parents and students of L P  , Pal, gheraoed the office of district education officer (DEO) here on Saturday. The parents initially approached the school authorities and when they did not get satisfactory answers to their queries, they reached the DEO’s office in Athwalines.

 The parents said the school has refused to declare results of the students who have not paid fees for all the four semesters. The school was to announce class I to IV results on Saturday when the parents arrived. The school gave results of those students who had paid the fees and asked others who had not to deposit them to get their results. 
 
 “We were shocked when the school authorities refused to give the results. The state government is also not doing anything which has put the students and the parents in a fix,” a parent, who took part in the protest at DEO’s office, said.
 
 Some parents have not paid fees for their children for the entire year, while a few had for one or two semesters only. Parents waited outside the DEO’s office for a few hours to meet him. Many had come with their young children. Later, the parents sat in the DEO U N Rathod’s office demanding that he meet him immediately. The DEO came at around 2.15 pm and talked to parents. The parents were asked to handover their demands in writing by Rathod when they asked him to instruct the school to issue them the result immediately.
 
 Rathod told the parents, “L P Savani International School is affiliated to CBSE and therefore we cannot interfere. I can forward your memorandum to the authorities.” Rathod later sent an officer with parents to the school to instruct it to issue the results of students. But the school refused and wanted the DEO’s office to issue the order in writing. “We cannot issue the results until parents pay us the complete fees. Schools have been authorized by the Supreme Court to collect provisional fees. The state government, too, has permitted this,” L P Savani Group vice-chairman   said. 
 
 
