NAGPUR: As a tribute to her performance in the past year, city’s little   queen   was bestowed with The   ( ) in Mumbai on Monday.

 
 The 12-year-old became the Popular Choice in chess during the third edition of the Mahindra Scorpio TOISA, powered by All Out, awards. Divya not only became the youngest sportsperson in the country but also the first player from Orange City to be nominated and claim the honours in TOISA.
 
 While Divya won the Popular Choice award, Grandmaster Harika Dronavalli was named Chess Player of the Year. Nashik-based GM Vidit Santosh Gujrathi and teenagers Vidya Pillai and R Vaishali were also nomiated. To become the Popular Choice, Divya pipped all the three including the 22-year-old Gujrathi, who became the fourth Indian chess player to cross the 2,700 ELO rating points after Viswanathan Anand, Pentala Harikrishna and Krishnan Sasikiran.
 
 No wonder, Divya and her parents were a happier lot after getting the TOISA award, which has already become the most popular sports award in the country after the Arjuna Awards. “I was very happy to be nominated by The Times of India amongst the best in the country and now feel on top of the world after winning this award,” Divya told TOI from Moscow.
 
 
  
 
 
 While the sporting icons of the country from different disciplines came together on a single platform, Divya missed the event as the youngest Women Fide Master of the country was participating in the Aeroflot Open in Moscow. Her mother Dr Namrata received the award on her behalf.
 
 “I never expected to win this award as the other nominees were very strong. I also wanted to be present during the awards ceremony but the tournament was also important,” Divya added.
 
 Divya had a sensational 2017 where she hardly did anything wrong with her little fingers on the 64 chequered boxes. She became the World Champion winning India’s only medal, a gold, at the World Cadet Chess Championship in Brazil. In the Asian Youth Chess Championship held in Tashkent, she won gold, silver and bronze medal too.
 
 “Had I been there, I would have taken autographs and clicked photos with the sporting icons of the country. Actually I wanted to click a picture with PV Sindhu and wanted to ask about her daily routine and the practice sessions. I missed this interaction for the second time in some months, but will surely make it one day,” she said.
 
 “This award will make me more confident as a player. After winning this before my seniors is itself a big thing for me,” Divya added.
 
 After receiving the award on behalf of her daughter, Divya’s mother Dr Namrata too was elated. “It is a very prestigious award. Even getting a nomination itself was an achievement. She was probably the youngest nominee and I am glad that she won this popular award. It would be another source of motivation for her.”
 
 “Collecting the award in front of all the stalwarts was very overwhelming. The event was very well organized and the Times of India took all the efforts to take care of the guests. It was a very good experience,” the proud mother said.
 
 On what Divya told her, the senior Deshmukh said, “She gave me a list for autographs. I managed some but her list was big.”
 
 The TOISA winners were chosen by a six-member jury headed by 2008 gold medallist Abhinav Bindra and the fans themselves in an online poll for their performances in 2017.
 
