PANAJI: The department of cardiology, Goa Medical College, has begun training medical officers at primary and community health centres in the state under a programme focused on improving emergency care for patients suffering heart attacks in remote areas.

 Under the statewide ST-Elevation Myocardial Infarction (STEMI) Programme, which will involve Goa Medical College, directorate of health services and EMRI ( ) 108, early diagnosis and treatment of heart attack will be made available in remote areas to reduce the risk of heart failure, death and other complications arising from an attack. 
 
 Health minister Vishwajit Rane said the programme will help address the “tremendous vacuum in places like Canacona, Quepem, Vasco and Ponda” in cardiac care. “Dedicated cardiac ambulances will take patients to PHCs and CHCs where doctors will be trained to thrombolyse and stabilise a patient and shift him to the nearest district hospital or GMC,” he said, adding that this is a first-of-its-kind system being adopted in the country. Rane addressed reporters after inaugurating five cardiac care ambulances of which two will be made operational soon. 
 
 Dr  , who heads the cardiology department, said the programme will focus on confirming the diagnosis of a STEMI — a heart attack caused by complete blockage of a blood vessel, even in remote areas, using ECG machines that will send the report remotely to experts and receive confirmation. “The doctor on ground will evaluate the patient and thrombolytic drugs will be administered at centres scattered across the state,” he said, adding that nine sites will be set up initially.
 
 “Care will be such that we limit the damage caused to heart muscles by treating the patient early. The ultimate goal is that a patient does not die of a heart attack and is able to return to normal life with the least amount of permanent damage,” he said. 
 
 Government hospitals, including GMC and two district hospitals, treat approximately 120 patients with STEMI every month. 
 
 Rane said the government was thinking of opening a cath lab in the   district hospital or taking the Apollo Hospital cath lab on lease.
 
 Rane said he was also exploring the possibilities of posting senior batches of resident doctors at the directorate of health services, instead of working only at GMC. “Such capable people should be made use of in centres where required. We have to spread out the specialists. That’s how people will have faith in the system,” he said.
 
 “GMC is in the process of starting an in-house pharmacy,” he said, adding that everything, including implants, will be made available there. The project has received the approval of chief minister Manohar Parrikar, he said. 
 
 
