NEW DELHI: After a string of defeats which has left   languishing at the bottom of the points table in the ongoing  , the captain of the team, former India opener  , stepped down from his post on Wednesday. 

 
 
 
 Shreyas Iyer will take charge from Friday's match against the   at the Ferozeshah Kotla. Gambhir’s decision, which one thought was round the corner given his poor form this year, comes as a precedence of sorts and a signal for other struggling Indian veterans in the IPL.
 
 
 
 It is learnt that Gambhir has offered to forego his entire fee he was due to receive as per the contract with the Daredevils. “Gambhir doesn’t mind letting go of the Rs 2.80 crore as he feels he has not done the job he was bought in for. He will take a call on his future as a player once the IPL ends,” sources close to the development told TOI.
 
 While the Daredevils management announced Gambhir will be more of a mentor now, CEO Hemant Dua insisted Gambhir is still in contention as a player. Sources said there were murmurs in the dressing room about Gambhir’s form. The 36-year-old former India opener also conceded that ‘bells had started ringing’ after the struggle in the last match against  . “I have announced Shreyas Iyer as the next captain and this is the right way forward. We still believe that we have got the group to turn it around. This is absolutely the right time. We need to win seven out of eight games, which is possible in this format. Teams have done it in the past and it can be repeated,” Gambhir said while adding, “Sometimes your conscience tells you to put your hand up and take responsibility.”
 
  
  
 
 This isn’t the first instance of a captain stepping aside during an IPL but it is rare for an established India player to take responsibility and step down from his role in the middle of a tournament. Daredevils coach  , who stood down as   captain midway through the season in 2013, highlighted the courage shown by Gambhir which is so rare in Indian cricket.
 
 “I was in the same situation a number of years ago. It’s tough to put your hand up. To know that your performance hasn’t been good enough and there are better players to take your spot. So I definitely like to say well done and congratulate him for putting the team ahead of his own individual thoughts. Nobody in Indian cricket has done this type of thing before and I don’t know if anyone else will do it after this,” Ponting said, lauding Gambhir.
 
 Gambhir was specifically roped in by Daredevils to avail his leadership which saw Kolkata Knigh Riders win two IPL titles. Gambhir conceded that his ageing body and mind have not responded to the challenge. “I couldn’t handle pressure. I was 28 when I took charge of KKR and now I am 36. I was over-eager here. Coming back to Delhi was also very emotional for me. I tried too hard and sometimes when you do that it gets really tough,” Gambhir reasoned. Daredevils are in a spot at the moment but Ponting stressed that it’s now his and Gambhir’s job to make Iyer's job easier and hope to turn things around.
 
