Surat: The Gems and Jewellery Export Promotion Council (GJEPC) has made a representation to Navsari member of Parliament MP C R Paatil regarding banks not providing financial assistance to small and medium diamond units. 

 GJEPC has submitted a letter by the State Bank of India (SBI), Surat branch, denying loan to a diamond unit owner under Prime Minister Mudra Yojana (PMMY) worth Rs 10 lakh. The letter given by the SBI’s Surat branch was submitted to the BJP MP for further action. 
 
 GJEPC office-bearers stated that many small and medium units are facing difficulties in terms of getting finance from public sector banks under PMMY. The industry requires more funds to address their working capital needs instead of investment in plant and machinery. In the recent past, it has been observed that banks offer financial assistance to big units with large amounts and in case of default, they suffer huge losses. 
 
 Regional chairman, GJEPC, Dinesh Navadiya told TOI, “We have represented to the government that the bank finance should be divided in 50:50 ratio between large and small and medium scale enterprise (SME) units in order to safeguard the interest of banks, economy and to support the diamond sector.”
 
 Navadiya added, “The small and medium diamond units are the backbone of diamond industry. Denial of term loan under PMMY scheme will affect many small units. We have strongly recommended to the Centre to continue loan under the PMMY scheme.”
 
 Following the Punjab National Bank (PNB) scam worth Rs 13,600 crore masterminded by billionaire Nirav Modi and Mehul Choksi, public and private sector banks have drastically reduced or squeezed lending in the gems and jewellery sector. Many small and medium diamond units are unable to infuse capital in purchasing rough diamonds, which are sold in cash in Belgium. 
 
 SDA president Babu Gujarati said, “Small and medium players are the backbone of the industry. Without finance, they will not be able to survive. Nowadays, all transactions are done in cash and through the banks. We request public and private sector banks to consider giving finance to small and medium players for sustaining the industry.”
 
 Sources said big diamond companies used to finance small and medium players at a higher rate of 16 per cent. Many companies have stopped giving finance in the industry following banks squeezing the credit lines. 
 
 Diamond analyst Aniruddha Lidbide said, “Most of the small and medium players have been doing job work for big companies. There are diamantaires who are running their units on their own. These people are in dire need of capital to run their units. The banking scam has left small and medium players without finance and this is going to have a big impact on the diamond industry.”
 
 
