In the latest episode of  , Shruti seems to be upset. She informs   that she has brought the gold chain which   did not buy on her behalf.

 Iman is not ready to believe her. Shruti explains that she brought it when Michil was born. She states that she spent her savings for the ornament and wants to give it to Iman’s daughter.
 
 Iman refuses to take Michil’s ornament. She says that her daughter doesn’t need any luxury. 
 
 Iman on the other hand tells her that she should be grateful to Ranajay. Therefore, she must buy him something.
 
 Iman also insults her by saying that such generous acts won’t change her image.
 
 Meanwhile, Shruti tries to explain that Iman has a wrong notion about Ranajay. She also informs that Ranajay loves her. Iman stops her and says that she shouldn’t comment on her personal life.
 
 Shruti also tells Iman to take care of her marital life or else she might regret the same.
 
  Iman asks whether Ranajay is worried about his public image and alleges that Ranajay must have sent her to meet Iman. 
 
 Shruti is hurt. She says that she won’t live long. Shruti also shares that she wants them to take care of Michil.
 
 Before leaving the room she says that Michil would be lucky if Iman becomes his mother in her absence.
 
 On the other hand, the entire family want Iman and Ranajay to reunite. They plan a special function to celebrate their marriage anniversary. 
  requests Iman to be a part of it and she decides to celebrate the day since Ranajay had requested her earlier.
 
  tries to convince Ranajay to come to the function but he refuses.
 
 Shruti gives a beautiful saree to Iman. Rupkotha requests her to take the gift.
 
 Ranajay informs his family members that he is flying to Mumbai. His father asks whether he is visiting Mumbai for official reasons. Ranajay informs that he is going there to consult a doctor about Shruti’s reports.
 
 He says that we will not be available for the celebration. Rupkotha asks him to cut the cake they have arranged. But he refuses to take part in any activity. 
 
 Meanwhile, Ranajay is very upset as Iman behaved rudely with him when he requested her to celebrate their anniversary.
 
 Iman becomes furious and destroys all the decorations and throws away the flowers. 
 
 When Shruti tries to console her she starts shouting and states that Ranajay is committed to Shruti, which is why he is neglecting his family.
 
 In another scene, a relative comes to congratulate the couple and gives Iman an ornament. Iman becomes upset and creates chaos.
 
 Iman becomes very angry when she finds out Michil is playing with her baby.
 
