What if you and your spouse, at no cost whatsoever, could check in to a luxury beach resort and enjoy the seafood and water sports? Or stay at a jungle resort and experience the wildlife? It might seem too good to be true, but a few Malayali couples are already doing this; their trips funded by companies in exchange for sharing their experiences through their blogs, social media accounts or travelogues.

 In the past few years, the travel and tourism sector — both national and international — have been looking for travellers to help market their properties and services. And it’s not the celebrities they are keen to hire these days, but the average Joe and Jane.
 
 
 For Malayali couples who love travelling, budget is usually an impediment; that’s why getting a company to sponsor the trip is a killer deal. However, for that to happen, the couple needs to have a relatively good social media presence or a moderately popular blog. And it’s not that big an ask, says 28-year-old Ebin Ephrem Elavathingal, who along with wife Johncy John, share their travel experiences on their blog Trip Jodi.
 
 “The most recent trend is that companies opt for micro-influencers, people who have about 2k to 5k followers on Instagram or Facebook,” he says. Trip Jodi’s Instagram, Facebook and YouTube accounts have 1.4k, 3.5k and less than 1k followers respectively. However, their individual following too are taken into account. “I have 5k friends in Facebook and 25k LinkedIn connections. So, people who are more ‘social’ have a better chance of landing the deals,” says Ebin.
 
  
  
 The type of content you post holds high value in the competitive hospitality industry, he says. “It’s rapidly evolving. In the beginning of 2017, they were looking at bloggers and by the middle of the year, there was a hype for Instagrammers and now with high-speed Internet, video content is preferred as it can easily be streamed,” he says.
 
 Agreeing with Ebin is 29-year-old Chetan Warrier, who along with wife Ankita Joshi, have a lifestyle blog titled  . Sponsored travel is a two-way street, where the travellers too can approach the hotels to strike a deal as they are offering a service by maximising their publicity, says Chetan.
 “When you are pitching to a small-time resort, they might only look at how many people you can reach with your posts, as they usually don’t have much money to pump into marketing. Bigger players though look at the type of your followers and your travel pattern. If these are similar to their customer base, then they would sponsor the stay. The whacky resorts look at your content,” he says.
 
 
 The benefits of sponsored travel depend on the company, as well as the travellers’ profiles. Ebin says he has done trips where hotels have sponsored their food and stay at a place as low as `2k per night to as high as `23k per night. “We did the latter recently at a resort in Coonoor. We were there for three days and they invested close to `1 lakh. After viewing our video, they invited us to review seven more of their properties,” he says.
 
  
 Due to the popularity of their blog, the couple have also been approached by a dosa company. “The deal was that we had to plug that it’s a packaged item that travellers can have while on the move,” he says. “Also, during the trip to Bengaluru last weekend, they rented a bike free of cost for two days. All they wanted us to do was put up an Instagram post mentioning the company.”
 
 Chetan, meanwhile, adds that travellers shouldn’t expect 100% funded travel all the time. “The resorts should understand that you are adding value and are not going there to stay for free. Sometimes, depending on the size of the property, there would be discounts from 25% to 75%, which itself is a great bargain,” he says. Currently, the tourism departments of countries such as Fiji are also scouting for Indian travellers to write about the destination, he adds.
 The perks are not just limited to accommodation and food. Goutham Rajan, who along with wife Thara started their Malayalam blog titled Clueless Compass two months ago, says that if the travellers are adventurous, then their apparels such as jackets and accessories like trekking boots are also sponsored by select companies.
 
 
 While getting the trip funded beforehand is a good way to keep expenses to a minimum, there are many who prefer to travel first and later cash in on the experience. “This way you are not bound by the restraints of a sponsored travel such as writing only about their properties,” says 30-year-old Goutham Rajan, whose website gets 25 visitors daily and has more than 6k followers in Instagram. The couple are paid to write travelogues for magazines about their trips to Europe and China.
 
 
  
 
 Similarly, 36-year-old Gautham Govind and wife Lakshmi Balachandran, who are based in Delhi and have a lifestyle blog titled The Knot Story, get offers after they return from a trip. “The PR companies of travel websites or hotels approach us and ask us if we can share our experience about travelling to Coorg, Rajasthan or even Singapore on our blogs and also provide a back link to their websites on travel planning,” says Lakshmi. “The sponsors also watch how good you are at exploring places, and that gives us an edge over the already cluttered space of bloggers and Instagrammers. They don’t want tourists, but travellers.”
 
 
 Meanwhile, Ebin and Chetan explain that the good aspect about influencer content is that it seldom veers away from the personality or writing style of the blogger, and hence the bloggers usually have a free hand on which offers to accept or reject. “If I am a funny guy or someone who likes to give gyan, the content will reflect that. It will never be a complete publicity ad,” says Chetan.
 
 The travellers however say there needs to be a certain amount of groundwork done before taking up  . On how Ebin and Johncy go about their project, he says, “We first read up on the place. If it’s a five-day trip, on the day we reach we survey the property and get a script planned. It would then take us a maximum of half a day to shoot content. It will take us about 12 hours to edit it. Then we have about two-and-a-half days left to enjoy,” he says.
 
 Ebin, however, adds that because micro-influencers have a very selective group of followers, “you cannot paint a rosy picture about a shabby resort”. To avoid this, they check out the reviews of the hotels or resorts in advance, and accept the proposals only if they match their style of travelling. “The audience always want to be taken to a fairy-tale place filled with unique experiences. So, we try to ensure that,” he says.
 
