MUMBAI: The Supreme Court-appointed   (CoA), led by ex-CAG  , seem to have different set of rules for different individuals working – on salary or on honorary basis – with the Indian cricket board.

 
 
 
 
 
 The CoA has decided to go ahead and hire the new head for the BCCI’s Anti-Corruption Unit ( ) in  , the recently retired Director General of Police from Rajasthan, at the age of 61.
 
 The announcement, appointing him in place of former Delhi police commissioner Neeraj Kumar – the exiting ACU head – comes on a day when one of Indian cricket’s senior-most administrator, Prof  , is also set to leave office.
 
 March 31, 2018 was said to be Shetty’s last day in office and – “funnily”, as   sources put it – nobody in the Board knew if Saturday was indeed his last day. Just to put it on record, BCCI secretary   has twice written to the CoA requesting that given Shetty’s longstanding experience, he be given a two-month extension. 
 
 On Saturday, sources said, Shetty did not hear from either the CoA or any other official in the BCCI if it was indeed his last day in office. He hadn’t received a formal letter from the BCCI either.
 
 A retired professor in Chemistry from Mumbai’s Wilson College, Shetty has been associated with Mumbai cricket since 1985 and with the BCCI since 1996. “So much for not letting him even know if it was his last day and so much for not even bothering to give him a decent farewell. He’s finished 33 years in the game, 22 years with BCCI alone. Funny what things have come to,” said a prominent stakeholder in Indian cricket.
 
 After coming on board post the January 2017 Supreme Court order, the CoA – as per mandate given by the court was to get the   reforms implemented – has gone on an appointment spree and the processes so far have bordered only on chaos.
 
 As per the CoA’s own directive, all employees of BCCI – they had announced – would have to retire at the age of 60. In the case of Shetty and Kumar, they were both past that age limit before the CoA came on board, only to be told some months ago that they would have to quit office.
 
 “Now, someone please clarify if retirement age is 60 or 65 or any higher? For honorary administrators, it’s 70, right? How is that so clearly mentioned?” ask sources within BCCI, adding that CoA’s style of functioning has simply been disorganised.
 
 Meanwhile, Singh’s appointment now comes at a time when he is 61. When BCCI released a statement on Saturday announcing his appointment, it did not go into the details of his contract, specifically not mentioning the period for which he has been appointed.
 
 So far, the CoA had held the argument that Kumar’s contract – finalised by the BCCI’s old guard – did not mention the period for which he had been appointed.
 
 BCCI’s acting secretary Amitabh Choudhary has not signed Singh’s appointment letter yet and as per CoA’s own directive, all official documents of the Board are stipulated to have the secretary as well as the CEO’s signatures. In turn, setting aside Choudhary’s letter which reiterates an earlier argument saying BCCI office-bearers were not kept in the loop about any new appointments being solely done under CoA’s directives, the SC-appointed administrators wrote back to Choudhary “you have failed to sign the offer letter (for Ajit Singh) and CoA hereby directs that the letter will be signed by the CEO on behalf of the BCCI”.
 
 Members of the BCCI, therefore, remain by their stand that the CoA has merely been taking “unilateral decisions under the pretext of carrying out the SC order. In truth, they’re doing everything except what the court has said.”
 
 
 In a letter addressed to the Committee of Administrators (CoA), BCCI’s acting secretary Amitabh Choudhary said the appointment of new ACU head, Ajit Singh, will not be considered until the approval of the general body. “The services of Neeraj Kumar (present ACU head) have been extended till May 31. Yet, the haste in issuing the appointment letter (of Singh) without compliance of provisions is completely beyond my understanding,” the letter added.
 
 Choudhary, in jest as much as in seriousness, suggested that he must express his “gratitude” to the CoA for having been relieved from the burden of authorising an appointment which is not supported by law. CoA replied to the letter saying it was going ahead with the appointment despite the BCCI office-bearer not signing the contract letter.
 
 
