NEW DELHI: What’s common between world junior shooting champion Devanshi Rana, world number 83 tennis champion   and India number two women’s singles tennis player Karman Kaur Thandi? They are a few of the many national and international sports champions produced by Delhi Development Authority’s Siri Fort  .

 Located in the heart of south Delhi and spread over acres of lush greenery, the complex is much sought after by not only budding athletes but also sports champions for its wide range of facilities. Opened in 1989, it offers facilities in 27 sporting disciplines. With an annual membership of Rs 8,000, apart from coaching fees, DDA feels the charges are quite affordable keeping in mind the facilities provided.
 
 At the state-of-the-art 10 metre shooting range that has 15 bays, 18-year-old Devanshi is a picture of calm as she aims her air pistol towards the target. The daughter of famous shooter Jaspal Rana, she recently won two gold medals at the World Junior Shooting Championship held in Sydney, Australia and is now preparing for another championship in Germany. She has been training at the sports complex since she was eight.
 
 “Though shooting ranges in other countries are more advanced, this facility is also very nice. I practice here from 8.30am to 3pm every day,” said the first-year BA (Programme) student of Lady Sri Ram College.
 
 Devanshi also practices at the Dr Karni Singh shooting range, but the location of   Sports Complex makes it the winner. “The Karni Singh range has an electric target system, but Siri Fort is closer home,” she added.
 
 Bhambri, who is currently India number one singles tennis player, is ranked 83 in the world and is one of the few Indians to make it to the world’s top 100 in singles.
 
 “I was born and brought up in Delhi and have been practising at the tennis courts at Siri Fort Sports Complex since I was 15. From golf to swimming, basketball and cricket, I have played different disciplines here since I was a kid, but took up tennis seriously later,” said 25-year-old Bhambri, whose elder sisters are also tennis champions and have trained at the same facility.
 
 He added, “This sports complex is one of the best in the country and there are very few places in India with such a wide variety of facilities. DDA has done a very good job in developing this facility.”
 
 The sporting facilities at Siri Fort Sports Complex include synthetic and clay courts for tennis, basketball, golf driving range, an indoor badminton stadium and playing facilities for squash, table tennis, billiards, cricket, football, hockey, aerobics, yoga, taekwondo, multi-gym, swimming, mini-golf course, jogging, croquet, skating, shooting, Reiki, naturopathy and children’s park. Training facilities are also provided for Krav Maga, western dance, ballet and jazz.
 
 Thandi (19), who gets her training at Mouratoglou Tennis Academy near Paris, France, trains at Siri Fort when she is at home in Delhi. “It is one of the best facilities in Delhi and for me, it is like home. The atmosphere is nice and with all the greenery around you really enjoy the game,” she said.
 
 At present, 200 athletes, mostly youngsters, train at the tennis courts while there are 83 regular users at the shooting range. Currently, permanent memberships are closed, but temporary memberships are available. Also, there is an option of “pay and play” for those using the facilities for a day, a DDA spokesperson said.
 
 
