Anyone who likes   agrees that if a particular dish is delicious, it is quite likely to be bad for health. It’s the reason eating out too frequently is an unhealthy yet popular habit. Even home cooks know that adding more   to the food preparation will enhance its taste. A while back, studies demonstrated that saturated fats commonly found in   oil were strongly associated with heart disease. This led to the marketing of   containing mono-unsaturated fatty acids (MUFAs) and poly-unsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs). Scientists are now saying that cooking oils rich in PUFAs may actually promote laziness, thus increasing the risk of diabetes.

 The study evaluated age, dietary habits, sedentary activity and prevalence of diabetes data in girls who were 11 years of age, and women who were 25 years of age, in a total of 23 countries. Data was then adjusted to account for differences in socioeconomic status, environmental factors and climate. The results showed a strong association between sedentary behavior, defined as more than 2 hours of TV per day and presence of PUFA in the diet of young girls. There was a weak association between dietary PUFA and elevated blood sugar in adult women. These results indicate that regular cooking oils rich in PUFAs, such as corn oil, sunflower oil and soy oil which are commonly used to prepare potato chips, burgers, crackers etc., may contribute to sedentary behaviors and laziness. This sedentary lifestyle ultimately leads to an increased risk of heart disease and diabetes. Such an association would prove detrimental for people who are trying to get fit without altering their intake of dietary fat. Therefore, a closer look at dietary fats is necessary for a more effective fitness regimen.
 
 Does this mean that one should avoid cooking with oil containing PUFAs altogether? On the contrary, these results highlight the need to identify healthier alternatives to the usual cooking oils. 
 
 
 
 1. Pither J, Botta A, Maity C, et al., PLoS One. 2017 Mar 29;12(3):e0173084.
 
 
 , MD (BOM), MRCP (ENDO) (UK), D. DIAB (UK), FACE (USA), Consultant Physician Endocrinologist, Specialist in: Diabetes, Thyroid, Obesity & Other Cardio-Metabolic Disorders, Fulara Medicheck Centre, Mumbai 
 Email: drsahil.fulara@gmail.com
 
 
 
 
