RUDRAPUR: The industrial capital of Uttarakhand’s   region,  , wore a deserted look on Sunday as all the city markets were shut in protest against the ongoing anti-encroachment drive by civic body. Traders of the city have announced an indefinite 'bandh' against the drive, during which they alleged that several legal constructions were also being bulldozed in a “dictatorial manner”.
 
  All the markets in Rudrapur, including   market, Seble Cinema road and Manihari market were shut due to the ‘bandh’.
  
  Alleging that the civic body is conducting the drive in an “unplanned manner” which has hit them adversely, scores of traders also took out a protest march on Sunday evening.
  
  Sanjay Juneja, president of the city traders’ union, alleged that no rules are being followed by the civic body during its anti-encroachment drive.
  
  “We cooperated with the municipal corporation, and most of the traders had removed their encroachments themselves. But, when the civic body officials entered Vidhwani market, Seble Cinema road and Manihari market on Saturday, they shelved all the rules and arbitrarily removed the structures. It has caused huge losses to the traders. Not only the parts of legal structures were razed, but sewer pits also were broken,” Juneja said.
  
  However, when contacted, commissioner of the municipal corporation, Jay Bharat Singh, said that no legal structure was demolished in the drive.
  
  “We are going by the court’s order and the encroachment will be removed at any cost. Only the illegal structures have been demolished,” the commissioner said.
  
  On March 23, the Uttarakhand high court had issued a contempt of court notice against   district magistrate and Rudrapur municipal commissioner on a petition alleging that they failed to remove 1,319 encroachments in the city despite a court order.
  
  The court also directed both the DM and commissioner to appear before it on April 25 only after removal of the identified encroachments. In compliance with the court order,   launched an anti-encroachment drive from April 7.
  
  But, later, the court gave the traders a breather of one month and asked them to remove the encroachments themselves.
  
  Now, the drive has been launched again.
  
   , a trader from Punjabi market, said: “The corporation officials are biased. A few markets have been deliberately targeted, while some others are spared. We will not settle till the administration redevelops these places.”
