NEW DELHI:   chief  's decision to okay an alliance with tribal outfit Indigenous People's Front of   ( ) despite misgivings in sections of the party was crucial in sealing a stunning electoral win that ended the Left's long monopoly over power in the state.

 The proposal for a tie-up with IPFT was strongly mooted by Assam leader  , who along with party general secretary Ram Madhav has emerged as a key political strategist for the BJP in the north-east. Sarma argued that an alliance with IPFT, despite the risk that it might provoke a backlash from Bengali voters, was a risk worth taking if it could undermine  's hold in a significant vote.
 
 There were concerns that IPFT's ability to deliver the tribal vote faced some tough competition and the decision to offer nine seats to the outfit was also discussed at length. But Shah decided that while the political options were challenging and even uncertain, a bold move to snatch the tribal vote and tap its perceived disenchantment with the Left was needed to beat a well-entrenched CPM government.
 
 The pitch worked and while there was a backlash, it was contained as urban seats of Agartala went the BJP way even though the party did not do well in rural areas with large Bengali populations. The saffron party's pitch against Bangladeshi illegals did not impress this section of the vote, including Hindus, who have settled in the state and are resentful of being tagged as “outsiders”.
 
 While aligning with the tribal sentiment of alienation was important for BJP in Tripura, in Meghalaya, it entered into an “undeclared” alliance with sub-regional outfits in order to maximise the gains of parties opposed to Congress and CM Mukul Sangma. The outreach to these parties began well in advance of the polls but the BJP leadership's preoccupation with Tripura where the battle royale was raging made the task more demanding.
 
 BJP held discussions with United Democratic Party (UDP) and the parties fielded candidates in a manner that reduced the possibility of mutual damage. Hill State People's Democratic Party (HSPDP) chief Ardent Miller Basaiawmoit lost the election and this proved to be a lucky break for BJP's efforts to back a non-Congress government in the state. Basaiawmoit had serious reservations about BJP but an electoral loss weakened his position and made it easier for two HSPDP candidates to offer support.
 
 The moves led to Conrad Sangma-led NPP receiving the invitation from the governor to form the government in Meghalaya, sealing a 3-0 victory for the NDA. The decision of UDP and HSPDP turned the tables on incumbent CM Sangma who was left stranded with 21 MLAs in a House of 60. 
 
 
