What is the trigger for the recent decision by various gurdwara managements in Canada, US and UK to ban entry of Indian diplomats in gurdwaras in their official capacity? Is it the outcome of alleged interference of Indian diplomats in Sikh affairs abroad, the handiwork of pro-Khalistan groups who want to fan anti-India, or the knee-jerk reaction to a face-off in a gurdwara in Australia?

 To many in the Punjabi diaspora, the move is surprising as it has been a common practice among gurdwara managements to invite Indian consulate officials to gurdwara events and even seek their help in various issues faced by the community.
 
 Intitially, it was propagated that gurdwara managements had decided to ban the entry of officials of Indian consulates, which didn’t go down well within the Sikh community. Following this, clarifications were issued that anyone including officials of Indian consulates could visit gurdwaras to pay obeisance.
 
 The ministry of external affairs has dismissed this move as the handiwork of fringe elements who were irrelevant in the Indian context.
 
 The ban has however damaged the community’s image.
 
 Talking to TOI on Saturday, North American Punjabi Association (NAPA) executive director Satnam Singh Chahal said, “One of my white neighbours who used to think that gurdwaras are very liberal and anyone could go there can’t understand these curbs.”
 
 He claimed that the genesis of ban was the alleged objectionable behaviour of some officials of Indian high commission which had irked many Sikhs. But he was quick to add that these officials also help in time of need.
 
 US-based chairman of Punjab Foundation Sukhi Chahal said, “This ban is deeply concerning, unfortunate and not in favour of the Sikh diaspora. It has only caused confusion.”
 
 “There is a valid concern among the Punjabi people who have sought asylum abroad that they may face difficulties in getting Indian visa or passports due to this decision,” he said.
 
 He said he had not heard of any incident where any Indian government officials may have caused disturbances spoken anything negative from any gurdwara stage.
 
 Many see the face-off in Tarneit Gurdwara of Melbourne as the catalyst for this. On November 18 , 2017, a group Sikh youth obstructed the Indian High Commissioner A M Gondane from entering the shrine. This video went viral on Internet. They were protesting against arrest of Sikh youths in Punjab.
 
 On December 30, 2017, the managements of as many as 15 gurdwaras held a meeting at Jot Parkash Gurdwara, Brampton, in Canada, and resolved to bar officials of Indian High Commission. Many gurdwara managements in UK and USA followed suit.
 
 While agreeing that the managements of gurdwaras invite officials of Indian consulates, American Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee co ordinator   said, “We can’t allow gurdwara stages to be used for delivering India’s agenda.”
 
 A prominent Indo American Sikh said the issue was brainchild of pro-Khalistani groups.
 
 Vice president,  , Switzerland , Harvinder Singh Khalsa, said they had banned use of their gurdwaras for politics in 1999. ”
 
 Referring to alleged interference, president of Shiromani Akali Dal (Amritsar )   said they had even lodged a complaint with Canadian police about the alleged interference of Indian diplomats in Canadian affairs, including the National Democratic Party leadership race.
 
