PATNA: The   on Tuesday created ruckus in the legislative assembly and council on the second day of the budget session and demanded apology from the BJP for initially not accepting that  , the accused of mowing down nine schoolchildren in Muzaffarpur district, was its member and then removing him from the party. 

 The agitated members demanded Baitha’s immediate arrest. He, however, has been absconding, with the allegations that he had caused the accident in drunken condition in the state that has been declared totally dry. 
 
 Even the presentation of the state budget by deputy CM and finance minister   in the state assembly in the second half witnessed unprecedented noisy scenes with the opposition members entering the well of the house, shouting slogans against CM Nitish Kumar and Modi. The CM was present in the house.
 
 The opposition, led by leader of opposition   and former ministers   and Tej Pratap Yadav, alleged government’s protection to Baitha and sought apology from Modi and also demanded adjournment of all proceedings to discuss the ghastly road accident. 
 
 Assembly Speaker Vijay Kumar Choudhary had to adjourn the house in 15 minutes in the pre-lunch session.
 
 In the council, RJD members trooped into the well which led to the adjournment of the house within ten minutes.
 
 Former chief minister Rabri Devi requested deputy chairman Haroon Rashid to look into the matter. RJD MLC Subodh Kumar demanded adjournment of the house.
 
 Congress MLC Dilip Choudhary also demanded adjournment over Bihar School Examination Board’s decision not to allow students to wear shoes and socks inside the examination halls. Choudhary called it a Talibani act.
 
 Later, talking to media persons, Tejashwi and Rabri criticised the BJP leaders for organizing Holi party when the entire state was mourning the innocent children killed in Muzaffarpur accident. 
 
 On being asked if RJD would continue to obstruct the functioning of state legislature, Tejashwi said: “We want a debate on this issue and our motive is to help the family members of the deceased children get justice. I am carrying out my duty as the leader of opposition.”
 
 Tejashwi also thanked Congress president Rahul Gandhi for raising his voice on this issue.
 
 Rahul had tweeted on Monday evening: “An intoxicated BJP leader killed 9 innocent children in ‘liquor-free’ Bihar! Nitishji, is this the reality of your prohibition? Who is your conscience protecting today — the accused BJP leader or the truth about liquor in Bihar?”
 
 Rabri criticised the state government for delay in Baitha’s arrest and claimed that his photographs with BJP state president Nityanand Rai, CM Nitish Kumar and senior BJP leaders were viral on social media. “The delay in Baitha’s arrest is due to government pressure,” Rabri alleged.
 
 However, JD(U) spokesperson Neeraj Kumar rubbished the allegations. “The government neither traps anyone nor helps a culprit,” Neeraj said.
 
 
