KOLKATA:   maintained their impressive record against Kolkata Knight Riders as they notched up their eighth consecutive win, second in last three days, against them by 102 runs at the Eden Gardens here on Wednesday. KKR’s meek surrender saw them slip out of the top-four position on the points table for the first time in   as MI not only caught up with them at 10 points from 11 matches but the huge margin of victory also helped them rise to fourth.

 
 
 
 It was   (62, 21 balls, 5x4, 6x6) who took the match away from KKR on Wednesday after Dinesh Karthik won the toss and put MI in. The KKR pacers haven’t fared well in the Powerplay this season. It’s been their spinners who have consistently pegged back the opposition in the middle overs to keep the rivals’ totals under check. But for the first time this season, the script unfolded differently as MI plundered 75 runs between the 10th and 15th overs thanks to the youngster from Jharkhand.
 
 
 
 The visitors made a sedate start before it rained sixes and fours courtesy Ishan’s bat as MI finished on a hefty 210 runs, 70 percent of which came in boundaries, losing six wickets.
 
 KKR were never in the game as they lost wickets at regular intervals to be reduced to 67 for six inside the first 10 overs. The hosts, for the first time in this IPL, were bowled out, for 108 runs in 18.1 overs.
 
 Ishan took charge and cut loose after openers Evin Lewis and Suryakumar Yadav departed in consecutive overs off Piyush Chawla. The left-hander smacked Kuldeep for four consecutive sixes as the left-arm spinner went for 25 runs in his third over. Ishan reached his 50 off 17 just balls with the help of five fours and four sixes.
 
 Ishan and   added 82 runs off 34 balls for the third wicket to set the platform for Ben Cutting to finish things off with a flourish. The Australian allrounder hit Chawla for two sixes and one four in the last over of the MI innings, that cost 22 runs. MI collected 98 runs in the last seven overs of their innings.
 
 However, Rohit’s bad patch this season continued as he struggled to get his timing right and even survived two lives before becoming Prasidh Krishna’s first IPL victim for 36 (31b, 2x4, 1x6).
 
