GUWAHATI: In an endeavour to restore the legacy of   Srimanta Sankardeva, experts from   (TU) have restored the century-old life-size wood carvings installed at the kirtan ghar (prayer hall) of the Batadrava Than in Bordowa, the birthplace of Srimanta Sankardeva. 

 Batadrava Than, the revered holy shrine located in central Assam's Nagaon district, was founded by Sankaradeva in the 15th century and is an important tourist destination. The shrine is known for significant wood carvings depicting many interesting facets of the Vaishnavite movement. While many scholars regard the wood carvings as the 'finest specimens of the entire range of wood carvings in the subcontinent', some of the carvings have faded away with the passage of time and were in urgent need of attention.
 
 "The largest of the wooden sculptures, a gadur pakhi, the bird from Hindu mythology measuring about two metres in height and three metres in width, painted with Hengul-Haital colour, was dated 1833. Another similar but slightly smaller sculpture of gadur pakhi and two wooden sculptures of Hanuman were set up subsequently. 
 
 Though all the wood carvings were initially painted with traditional pigments, all of them became dirty and unattractive in the course of time. In the last seven months, the TU experts-led mission has restored the priceless life-size wood carvings, which are now on display for public," said  , the TU public relations and information officer, on Tuesday.
 
 TU professor  , an expert in traditional dyes and pigments, and his colleague Swapan Kumar Dolui, an expert in adhesives and polymers, both from the chemical sciences department, led the initiative to return the historical site to its original form with Hengul-Haital (vermilion and yellow arsenic, used traditionally in Assam for colouring of wooden instruments, walls, traditional masks) and other traditional pigments. The initiative was also driven by a broader idea of reviving the unique but dying tradition of painting wood carvings with Hengul-Haital. 
 
 The professor duo was helped by  , an expert in the traditional art forms of Assam in ensuring the sanctity of the traditional art aspect, who made periodic visits to the site
 
 Besides, resource persons from various places like Majuli, Nagaon, Tezpur and TU were involved in the cleaning, preparation of the paints by grinding and mixing gum with elephant's apple and water, application of the paints, the final art works and application of a final thin coat of natural sap (la charowa) in three phases. A team of chemists, led by Pinku Gogoi and Rajkamal Mohan, PhD students of TU, supervised the entire work starting from cleaning to ensuring safety in handling the toxic pigments.
 
 
