KOLKATA: With the northwesterly wind making a strong return, Wednesday turned out to be the season’s coldest day so far with the mercury plunging to 13.7°C — just a shade below the 13.8°C recorded on December 26. But unlike last week, the Met office said this time the   will persist. 

 On Wednesday, the city was more windy than it had been over the past week. With no low-pressure system or cyclonic circulation in the region, barring one in north Bengal that is moving away, the path was clear for the chilly winds to blow in from the icy parts of Kashmir and  . On Thursday, the mercury could dip further to around 12°C. 
 
 “We expect the mercury to remain a little above 12°C on Thursday and it should stay there at least till the weekend. This is set to be the longest chilly spell in the city so far,” said G K Das, director, Regional Meteorological Centre (RMC). The lone low-pressure trough in the region, which existed in   till Tuesday, has moved towards Sikkim and north Bengal. And, according to the  , it is set to move further away towards the northeast.
 
 “The trough will have no further impact on the weather. With nothing to come in the way, the northwesterly should turn stronger over the next 48 hours and bring in chill. It should help keep the mercury between 12°C and 13°C for the next three-four days,” said Das.
 
 The day time temperature is set to climb down further. While it had been around 26°C so far, the maximum temperature could spiral down to 24°C by the end of the week, the weathermen said. With the northwesterly getting stronger, the chill will be felt throughout the day.
 
 “The chill factor in the east is dependent largely on the northwesterly wind. Once it starts flowing in, the mercury drops. Generally, the second and third weeks of January are the coldest periods in Kolkata since the systems usually move away then. This is exactly what has been happening this time. We are approaching peak winter and the mercury will plunge,” said a weather scientist.
 
 
