KOLKATA: Unable to find takers for almost a year, the   has let go of the idea to generate revenue by using trolleys for advertisement. The airport has gone back to the old way of expenditure-based contract system where the authorities will pay a company to manage trolleys — maintenance, upkeep and salary of the retrievers. Even after floating multiple tenders since July last year, none showed interest in advertising on trolleys.

  
  
 As the airport authority is now responsible for the all expenses, they have decided to cut down on manpower. Earlier this month, they floated a tender seeking a contractor who require to pay the salary of 64 employees. The airport now has 71trolley retrievers as they sacked 10   who were above the age of 58. The authorities seeking a contractor to manage 64 handlers implies that more handlers will be barred from the system soon.
 
 “We are abiding by the government recognized labour law policy. The pay structure as well as the retirement age is also clearly in accordance to the same policy. So, those past their retirement age will be let go,” said a senior airport official.
 
 A supervisor of the trolley handlers said they can deploy 10 men on arrival and 10 men on departure section for each shift, given the present strength. “It means that on any given day, we need at least 60 persons with 11people on rotating roster holiday. If the number comes down to 64, we will be in trouble,” the supervisor said. He added that at least five persons will be past the age of 58 in the next six months and the airport authorities are trying to strike them off the roster.
 
 “Since the authorities will be forced to manage the expenses now, they are cutting down manpower to manage the cost. But we cannot allow this, we will write to the authorities to consider our situation,” said one of the handlers who will turn 58 soon.
 
 Since 2016, the airport was earning from trolley advertisements. The authorities were being paid a rent by the contractors who sold the display space to the advertisers. This way, the contractors would pay for the trolleys’ maintenance and also earn their own revenue. The idea was to ensure timely retrieval of trolley by the contractors who wanted flyers to see the ads.
 
 But the scheme failed because of the heavily unionised work force coupled with poor work culture. The contractor — Century Ventures — put a stop to this in July last year, before the completion of their contract period. Shashi Chowdhary of Century Ventures had said: “It was very difficult to work with the incompetent Kolkata staff who demanded a lot of money.”
 
 Since then, the authorities had been trying to find a new contractor but failed. “We are going back to the expenditurebased system and have floated tenders regarding the same. Till then, NIS — who manage the housekeeping staff at the airport — will be in-charge of the trolley retrievers. We are paying them and they are paying the trolley retrievers,” the airport official said.
 
 
