BELAGAVI: It is 10.30am. A bungalow at Jadhav Nagar in Belagavi is full of visitors. The man who they are waiting for arrives from outside and the visitors surround him. As he makes himself comfortable on a sofa in the portico, they go to him, one by one, and touch his feet before explaining to him the purpose of their visit.

 
 Nobody dares to sit in front of  , Congress MLA, unless he tells them to do so. Satish patiently listens to their problems and gives instructions to his personal staff to follow up on them. At the end of the meeting, the visitors make it a point to take a photo with their leader on their mobile phones.
 
  
  
 Satish Jarkiholi, one of the ‘powerful’ Jarkiholi brothers who control the district politics, is seeking re-election from Yemakanmaradi, a constituency reserved for Scheduled Tribes, for the third time and is facing 39-year-old Maruti Astagi of BJP, who runs a tutorial in Belagavi.
 
 Astagi had surprised many by garnering 46,000 votes against Satish in 2013. “BJP will fare better in Lingayat pockets. This time too Astagi will give a tough fight to Satish,’’ says Mahesh of Mavanoor village.
 
 But Satish is confident, so much so that he has decided not to campaign from the day he filed his nomination. Instead, he wants to spend most of his time in Badami where chief minister Siddaramaiah is in the fray. “People of Yemakanmaradi have seen my work and they will ensure my victory,” he says.
 
 Satish, an AICC general secretary, also has the responsibility of ensuring his party wins more seats in Belagavi and North Karnataka. “We had won six of the 18 seats in Belagavi in 2013. We are aiming for 10 now. There are some problems but we will sort them out and reach our goal.”
 
 In the neighbouring Arabhavi segment, Satish’s younger brother and fourtime BJP MLA Balachandra is taking on former KAS officer Aravind Dalwai of Congress. Dalwai had tasted defeat at the hands of Balachandra in the 2008 by-poll held after the latter switched to BJP from JD(S).
 
 RTI activist Bhimappa Gadad, who unearthed irregularities in compensation provided for crop losses in Arabhavi, is also in the fray as an independent. While Balachandra is banking on his family clout and development works he is claiming to have done and BJP’s popularity, Dalwai is promising the constituents freedom from what he says are the excesses of Balachandra.
 
 In Gokak, Ramesh Jarkiholi, the eldest of the Jarkiholi brothers and Belagavi district minister, has locked horns with Ashok Pujari of BJP. People consider Pujari a formidable candidate given the presence of the huge Lingayat population, but they are sceptical about his ability to take the fight to the finish. “Pujari enters ‘understanding’ politics at the last minute. That is the problem,” said Vinayak, a car driver from Gokak.
 
