NAGPUR: Traders will no longer be required to visit tax offices and they can get electronic way bill generated on the portal for movement of goods which will also save time, said Suresh Rayalu, superintendent of   and  , on Thursday.

 Rayalu and Prashant Warkar, also CGST and Central Excise superintendent, cleared doubts of the business community at a seminar on E-way Bill organized by   at MIA House. The officials gave a demonstration on how to use the web portal so that industrialists could get a clear picture and understand legal provisions involved therein.
 
 Captain CM Randhir and Sachin Jain, president and additional secretary respectively of MIA, were seated on the dais.
 
 Highlighting the benefits of E-way Bill which will be made compulsory in the coming months, Rayalu said, “As we are in the world of digitalization, traders can generate the bill on their computer or android phone. The average waiting time at check-post will reduce drastically as this move is also aimed at cutting down on corruption.”
 
 Rayalu said that the Bill, a key element of the Goods and   (GST) regime, is an electronically generated document required to be carried by a person in charge of the conveyance carrying any consignment of goods of value exceeding Rs50,000. This has been mandated by the government vide section 68 of the   Act read with rule 138. It is generated from the GST common portal by registered persons or transporters who cause shifting of goods of consignment before the commencement of such movement. 
 
 Rayalu said, “While generating an E-way Bill, there are a few items to be mentioned such as customer’s details, transporter name, products supplied along with HSN and rate, besides others. Entering these details every time you generate an E-way Bill will be a tedious and time-consuming job. To avoid repetitive efforts, the concept of ‘masters’ has been introduced. A user can maintain master of the heads like products, clients, suppliers and transporters so that every time their initial is entered, the rest detail is auto-populated.”
 
 Members of MIA attended the session to seek solution to their business related queries. The E-way Bill, which was supposed to roll out across the country on February 1, faced many technical glitches on the first day itself, leading to its extension for both, inter and intra-state movement of goods.
 
 
