NEW DELHI: As league stage toppers Sunrisers Hyderabad face Kolkata Knight Riders in the second Qualifier today for a place in Sunday’s   final, their mentor   has backed the franchise to put aside them the loss to Chennai Super Kings three nights ago. 

 
 
 
 A narrow last-over defeat to CSK in Tuesday’s first Qualifier was SRH’s fourth successive loss - and third in a row to CSK this season - but looking back at the defeat, Laxman felt the franchise could take “great pride” in the fight it put up in pushing the seven-time finalists down to the last over. 
 
 
 
 
 
 “It didn’t help that we lost our captain and most consistent batsman of the tournament,  , as well as Shakib Al Hasan to catches down the leg-side. As a team, when two key batsmen get out in such fashion, it is easy to start feeling that the rub of the green isn’t going your way, but our campaign has been characterised by a positive approach and attitude,” wrote Laxman in his column for The Times of India. 
 
 “Yusuf Pathan first, and then Carlos Brathwaite in grand fashion, showcased those virtues though, at the break, we felt that 139 was about 20-25 runs too few. We have great confidence in our bowling, and like the consummate professional that he is, Bhuvi once again led the way. Fully recovered from the mid-season injury, he got the ball to swing. Our only chance was to take wickets, and after Bhuvi provided the breakthrough, the rest chipped in to dent Chennai’s chase,” wrote Laxman, who played 22   matches between 2008 and 2011. 
 
 After losing four wickets inside seven overs, SRH were pushed to 139/7 by Braithwaite’s 29-ball 43 not out, and then their pace bowlers and Rashid Khan rocked CSK to leave them in tatters at 62/6. It was then that South African captain Faf du Plessis calmly guided them home with an unbeaten 67 from 42 balls, a stunning innings that came when CSK needed 43 runs from three overs. 
 
 “Chennai’s batting has been like our bowling. Where we have found means to defend low totals, they have unearthed different batting heroes, and this time, it was the turn of the experienced Faf du Plessis to put his hand up. Chennai have tended to take the game deep and refused to blink in adversity, trusting themselves to get the job done. Faf symbolised that and played a brilliant knock under the circumstances,” wrote Laxman. 
 
 SRH have a second shot at the final as they play KKR at Eden Gardens. 
 
 “I know we have now lost four games in a row, but in a knockout situation, that doesn’t mean anything. We start Qualifier 2 against Kolkata Knight Riders with a clean slate, knowing that it will be a huge challenge but we are also excited at the prospect,” wrote Laxman.
 
