KURNOOL: Continuing with his relentless attack on Prime Minister   and the government at the Centre, chief minister N   on Sunday said the   is trying to obstruct the growth of Andhra Pradesh as it fears that the state will overtake Gujarat in development.

 
 Addressing a public meeting at   in   district as part of the Nava Nirmana Deeksha, Naidu said the BJP government cheated AP and looted the state. “The party is now conspiring against the state, as it fears that AP will beat Gujarat and people will again vote for me,” he said. 
 
 He warned that with   nowhere in the scene, the BJP will face a similar situation in the next elections as it has done injustice to the state. “It’s time to teach a lesson to people who didn’t do justice to the state,” he said, adding that both the Congress and the BJP cheated AP. 
 
 While the former played a key role in the unscientific bifurcation of the state, the latter promised much but gave little, leaving the newly-formed state to fend on its own. The chief minister further said that despite his best of efforts he could not get much from the Union government and had no option other than leaving the alliance for the sake of the state’s prestige.
 
 He reiterated that the state government is ready to complete the Polavaram project by 2019 if funds are released. Describing Polavaram as the “lifeline for AP”, Naidu asserted that despite the obstacles the project will be completed. 
 
 He announced that 55 per cent of the project works have been completed and so far 22,000 people have visited the Polavaram work site.
 
 The BJP will not come to power at the Centre in the 2019 elections, he predicted, adding that regional parties will play a major role in government formation at the Centre in the coming elections. He sought the blessings of the people for success in getting special category status for the state and fulfilling all the promises made in the AP Reorganisation Act of 2014. Naidu has also warned the opposition parties in the state no to do politics on sand mafia. “The YSRCP, on Nava Nirmana Deeskha day, has taken up cheating deeksha,” he said, and also announced that 200 Anna canteens will be set up in urban areas of the state very soon.
 
