MUMBAI: Seven persons, including two Chembur residents operating an illegal   in Vinegaon, near Khalapur, Raigad, have been  . The eighth accused is absconding. Khalapur police took action against those operating Better Life Foundation and handed over the inmates to their parents and relatives after a complaint by a Navi Mumbai resident.

 The son of the Navi Mumbai resident, admitted four months ago, was allegedly beaten up along with other inmates with a cycle chain, cricket stumps and steel rods.
 
 Those booked included Chembur resident, Pradip Patel (53), who ran the centre, his son, Mira Road resident Malhar Patel (29), and six other Mumbai residents under IPC sections 326, 324, 323, 34 and Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2000, with amendments in 2015, and sections 75 and 82. The other accused include Mangesh Sonai (26), Mukesh Serve (30), Pravin Koli (30), Srinivas Devendra (40), Shubham Roy (21) and Akash Kaspille, who is absconding.
 
 The FIR said six Mumbai residents, apart from the minor from Navi Mumbai, were beaten up by the caretakers and owner of the centre.
 
 Inspector Jameel Shaikh said, “A Navi Mumbai resident had complained that her 14-year-old son, addicted to cigarettes, was admitted to the centre around four months ago. When she visited the centre, she found that he was beaten up and took him to the police station to lodge a complaint. The de-addiction centre did not have permission from the gram panchayat, police, Food & Drugs Administration and district health officer among other regulators.”
 
 Social activist   said, “The centre owner and its staff forced inmates to cut vegetables and help in cooking. When five objected to it, stating that their parents were paying for their stay, they were beaten up. Inmates said the 14-year-old had fallen unconscious after the beating.”
 
 Havaldar Subhash Patil said, “During our raid, 19 inmates were found. Their parents and relatives were called and after medical check-ups they were handed over. The accused have been remanded to police custody till Saturday. A hunt is on for the eighth accused.” The FIR says the accused were apprehensive about the inmates fleeing from the centre; therefore, the owner and six others beat up the complainant and others.”
 
 
