NEW DELHI: East Delhi Municipal Corporation has obtained the nod of the Central Pollution Control Board for two new landfills in the Yamuna river zone, or the ‘O’ zone.   had appealed to   for immediate handover of land for landfills as the one at Ghazipur had become a safety hazard. 

 NGT had then directed   to assess the viability of these alternative sites — in Ghonda Gujran Khadar and Sonia Vihar.
 
 CPCB, in a note to NGT which has been accessed by TOI, states that “a portion of Ghonda Gujran (50 acres) can be allotted to EDMC because it’s in no-flood zone. Besides, approximately 100 to 150 acres of land, which is in no-flood zone, can be allotted near Sonia Vihar”. It added: “Bth sites shall undergo environmental clearances and qualify the criteria for site sensitivity index (SSI).” 
 
 The Sonia Vihar site is just 1,500 metres away from Yamuna. Ghonda Gujran is 1,950 metres from the river. This could pose a serious ecological crisis, environmentalists and Yamuna activists have been warning since 2016.
 
 “Both sites are in zone ‘O.’ How can they have landfills near the river? As far as we are concerned, it’s an absolute no-no because they are in the floodplain. The water table is very high here. Toxic leachate from the landfills is going to pollute the underground aquifers for all times. This is absolutely illegal and against the solid waste management rules. We will oppose this,” Manoj Mishra, convener of Yamuna Jiye Abhiyan, said. 
 
 The site being in the river bed, Mishra claimed, “violates all legal provisions in the country that one can think of, including the Water Act, 1974, The Environment Protection Act, 1986, the Waste Management Rules, 2016, The Ganga Authority Notification 2016, The NGT judgment dated January 13, 2015, in Maily se   case, the DDA Act and The Zonal Plan for Zone O (river zone)”.
 
 Balendu Shekhar, the advocate representing EDMC, said the issue was urgent. “We had appealed in NGT that no land be delineated for any government project before a sanitary landfill site is allotted to EDMC. In fact, former NGT chairperson Swatanter Kumar had also directed that first land be allotted for SLF before any other commercial project. This order still stands.” 
 
 
