PANAJI: Union finance minister  's move to reduce by half the customs duty on imported   nuts to 2.5% has come as a relief for local cashew processing units. Though the move will benefit the 10-15 major cashew processing units in the state, the industry sought for complete withdrawal of the duty which was imposed in 2016-17.

 Speaking to TOI, industry stakeholders said that the reduction of the basic customs duty on cashew nut imports would allow cashew processing units to remain operational for a longer duration in a year and thus lift rural employment.
 
 “We had requested for total exemption, but even this will provide some benefit. Local production has gone down and if units need to keep their workers, processing units have to import cashew nuts,” president of Goa cashew processors association, Madhav Sahakari said.
 
 The cashew processing industry in Goa comprises about 30-odd units, equally divided between large units and small units. While there are a few cashew nut exporters like   and Zantye Cashew, most established processing units prefer to cater to the domestic market.
 
 Goa processes between 15,000 and 18,000 tonnes of cashew nuts per year, and the shortfall is made up through cashew imports from Indonesia,   and other African countries.
 
 “For Goan cashew processors, this reduction won’t benefit much. As per the least-developed countries (LDC) agreement, no customs duty is imposed on raw cashew from countries like Tanzania,” secretary of Goa cashew processors association Rohit Zantye said.
 
 Globally,  , Nigeria and Ghana together account for 25% of the cashew trade and states like Kerala and Karnataka import from these countries.
 
 Sources said that a delegation from Goa cashew processors association had met Union minister for commerce and industry Suresh Prabhu in December 2017 asking for the import duty to be rolled back.
 
 “This will help generate additional employment in the rural areas.   are employed in this Industry,” chairman, national council for MSME Manguirish Pai Raikar said.
 
 Currently, due to shortage of domestic cashew nut production, some processing units import nuts in October, November and December to keep their units running. While large units like Zantye’s remain operational for 11 months, other cashew processing units remain active for 10 months of the year.
 
 
