Panaji: The high court of Bombay at Goa has held that a man cannot be convicted for   for having sexual intercourse with a woman by “a misrepresentation of fact”, when there is evidence of “a deep love affair” between the two.

 The high court set aside a seven-year jail term and Rs 10,000 fine awarded by a trial court against the accused for raping a woman after giving false promise to marry her. The accused had appealed against the order in the high court.
 
 In 2013, a passing acquaintance between two casino workers turned into a love affair. One day, chef Yogesh Palekar took the woman home to introduce her to his family. His family was not at home and she stayed back for the night. They had sexual intercourse and the next morning he dropped her home. Later, too, they had sexual intercourse at his residence on three or four occasions.
 
 But, he refused to marry her as she belonged to a lower caste. The woman then filed a complaint of rape against Palekar and stated that she had agreed for sexual intercourse as he had promised to marry her. 
 
 In the course of the trial, it was also revealed that the survivor provided Palekar with financial support.
 
 Justice C V Bhadang held that the evidence clearly showed that “the   could not be said to be based only on the promise” made by Palekar, “but, was out of love affair” between the two.
 
 “Even after this incident, their relationship continued,” the court noted and said, she “used to provide the appellant financial help for his daily needs and both of them had sexual intercourse on about three to four occasions” at his residence. “It can thus be clearly seen that there was a love affair” between the two and “there was a clear consent, on the basis of which,” they “had physical relationship”.
 
 The woman also “went to the extent of withdrawing” the complaint by filing an affidavit. She took this step as the man was undergoing treatment at the Institute of Psychiatry and Human Behaviour (IPHB) in Goa for depression. She had said that she wanted to withdraw the complaint due to emotional and personal reasons, the court said after hearing advocate Arun De Sa, who appeared for Palekar.
 
 “This would clearly show that there was deep love affair between the two. It cannot be said that the consent given by the woman was on account of any promise of marriage made by the appellant,” the court said.
 
 “Had the intention of the appellant (Palekar), since inception, been to exploit the prosecutrix (the survivor), he would not have apprised her about his family background and particularly, about his delicate financial condition and the fact that he was not having a house of his own,” justice Bhadang said.
 
 As she had helped Palekar financially, it cannot be accepted that he was in a position to dominate or that he used any such position to exploit the woman sexually, the court noted.
 
 The high court also set aside the conviction and sentence imposed under Section 376 read with Section 3(1)(xii) of the Scheduled Castes and the Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989.
 
 
