BHOPAL: The week-long   concluded here on Saturday. The participants of Kala Utsav have set an example on how to make the best of available resources by using their creativity.

 Children at the  , where the event is being held, could be seen readying their costumes and props for their performances. The team from Kanpur who showcased the folk dances of   like Sumi dance, War dance and Zilong dance had designed their costumes with the help of their teacher and choreographer, Poonam Verma.
 
 Ayush Tiwari, a student of Class 9 told TOI that their dresses were all handmade. The boys had to specially learn hemming and stitching for this, he said, adding, “Our teacher gave us some innovative ideas to make dresses like those worn by the natives of Nagaland during the dance. We learnt stitching, crafts and painting specially for the event.”
 
 Using colourful plastic brooms for the headgear, the students mad the best possible use of everyday items to make their costume. A plastic vegetable basket was set atop a small wicker basket, which was covered with cloth pieces in red and black. The brush of the broom was attached on top to give the headgear the final finish. The students also used dinner mats and sections of white drawstrings to make the skirt accessories and used garden-hose for necklaces. Similarly, the schoolkids from Chandigarh, wore gunny bags and leafy headbands while performing Tarpa and Dhol dance of Dadar and Nagar Haveli.
 
 Sukhjinder Kaur, who choreographed the dances said, “It was difficult to get the original material so I looked for some ideas and after some research I asked the children to decorate their gunny-bag dresses with paint and use Ashok-tree leaves for the bands.”
 
 Roshan Verma, leading the Patna team said, “We had to do alot of research to get the costumes and dance-moves right, and we learned a lot about the culture of Tripura in the process. After coming here we felt closer to the students hailing from North-East as we understood the challenges they face and also got to know about their traditions.”
 
 The event aims at facilitating a cultural exchange between the students from different parts of the country.
 
 Visual art from different states, folk theatre and music performances also encouraged children to interact with each other and try and understand the varied customs and traditions of the country. Students from Nagaland, Puducherry, Sikkim, Tamil Nadu, Talangana, Tripura, Meghalaya and West Bengal presented their music forms of their respective states in the festival while those form Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Arunachal Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Dadra & Nagar Haveli, Daman and Diu, Goa, Jammu Kashmir, Karnataka and Mizoram showcased their dramatic talent.
 
