Nagpur: A day after TOI reported how Tadoba-Andhari Tiger Reserve (TATR) faces isolation with upgradation of surrounding roads by PWD, Roadkills, a Citizen Science Initiative to collect data on mortality of wild animals on roads, has shown that at least 161 roadkills were recorded in 28 days on Chandrapur-Mul Road, which is also proposed to be widened. “In 28 days of field work we found 161 roadkills, including 10 amphibians, 13 birds, 31 mammals, and 107 reptiles. If you just extrapolate the statistics to 365 days, you should get 2,100 roadkills on Chandrapur-Mul Road alone,” says road ecologist Milind Pariwakam. “The deaths were recorded after five days of sampling by travelling on the stretch over past few months. These deaths are bare minimum. Many kills go unnoticed as carcasses are scavenged. Once the road is expanded, sans any mitigation measures, death toll will only increase,” Pariwakam said. The Chandrapur-Mul (NH-930) Road is part of the 128km to be expanded till Murumgaon in Gadchiroli. But PWD executive engineer Vivek Mishra says, “We are just upgrading the existing road by increasing its width. In forest patches, there will be no expansion.” In the entire Tadoba landscape, state highways are being upgraded without any mitigation measures. These roads will eventually be handed over to NHAI for four-laning, and toll tax will be charged. On the most controversial Chandrapur-Mul (45km) Road expansion, Mishra said, “Of this, we will not expand 26km road in forested patch, which also falls in the eco-sensitive zone (ESZ). We will just overlay bitumen, while 14km road will be cemented for smooth flow of traffic. As it is under right of way (ROW), we don’t need sanction under Forest (Conservation) Act 1980.” “This is like laying of foundation for four-laning by NHAI later, which will include wildlife mitigation measures,” he added. “A tender to prepare DPR and appoint a consultant for sensitive Chandrapur-Sindewahi-Talodi-Nagbhid stretch has also been floated. This forested road will also be expanded soon,” Mishra said. It is learnt that at a joint meeting of NGOs, contractors, and PWD officials convened by Chandrapur CCF Vijay Shelke on April 10, there was a suggestion to construct wildlife underpasses as the road stretch is close to Tadoba. However, PWD officials said they will not expand road in forest patches.  Chandrapur NGO Eco-Pro’s Bandu Dhotre said, “For the time being, till clearance under FCA is received, we have demanded rumble strips at every 2km intervals on Mul-Chandrapur road. If underpasses are not constructed during four-laning, we will approach the courts.” Meanwhile, PWD has also submitted a proposal under FCA for diversion of 141 hectare forest land for Chandrapur-Murumgaon Road. The proposed diversion falls on Gadchiroli side. On Tuesday, TOI’s report on four-laning of Nagbhid-Bramhapuri road stirred up debate on how forest officials allowed expansion of 3km crucial forested stretch sans mitigation steps. As per WII report based on collared tigers, the said 3km stretch is used by big cats to move towards Tadoba, Umred-Karhandla and Navegaon-Nagzira, and Armori.