VADODARA: Vicky Kanojia, a resident of Wadi was murdered allegedly by four persons late on Monday night at   locality over a  . Two persons were arrested in connection with the murder on Tuesday evening.

 The accused Raju Pawar and his two sons Vishal alias Langdo Pawar and   and his sister’s son rushed to Gajrawadi locality in Wadi with swords on Monday night when the Kanojia was playing cricket with his friends. 
 
 Police said that the accused attacked Kanojia with sword and when his friend Jaideep Thakkar tried to intervene, Vishal and Dhaval attacked him as well. 
 
 Thakkar, who received minor injuries, tried to escape from there. But when the duo tried to follow him on bike, he went near Gajrawadi ward office and informed people from his locality about the attack.
 
 The group then went to the place where Kanojia was lying unconscious. They rushed him to a private hospital where doctors declared him dead after brief treatment. 
 
 Meanwhile, locals of Gajrawadi went near Dhundiraj Ganesh Temple where the accused live to find them. But when the enraged mob did not find the four accused, they damaged vehicles parked in the locality.
 
 Later, Thakkar registered a complaint of murder and criminal intimidation against all four at Panigate police station. Police arrested Raju and his son Vishal on Tuesday evening and have continued their search for the other two.
 
 Cops said that accused attacked   because he and Dhaval had got in a scuffle on Dhuleti. “Dhaval had made a comment as Kanojiya was driving his bike very rashly following which they had got into a fight then which got settled. But on Monday night keeping a grudge of that fight they went to Gajrawadi and attacked Kanojiya,” a police official said.
 
 Kanojiya used to earn his living by selling groundnut in old city area.
 
 According to police sources, Raju was arrested in the past too in connection with three murders. While in two cases in which Chhotu Kahar and a GEB employee Vishwas Rao were killed in 1990 and 1992 respectively, Raju was acquitted. While in the murder of Dinesh Pathak, an editor of a newspaper, in 1993 he was sentenced to imprisonment for 10 years.
 
 
