BATHINDA: Nearly a month before the sowing of cotton starts in Punjab, the issue of   has sent alarm bells ringing in the state agriculture department. Many  , which have started reaching Punjab markets from Gujarat, are either spurious or not recommended, said sources in the department.

 On Friday, 137 packets of BT cotton seeds, without batch number and date, were recovered by   ( ) activists from the railway tracks at Khokhar Kalan village in Mansa. Before this, on March 6, a case was registered against an agent of input dealers in Bathinda for keeping spurious seeds.
 
 The two incidents have alarmed the agriculture department, as the sale of spurious seeds in 2015 caused huge damage to the cotton crop. Farmers had to bear big losses and the state government had to face lot of heat due to farm protests as huge swathes of the crop were ravaged by whitefly on account of fake seeds and spurious pesticides, which proved ineffective in countering the pest attack.
 
 The state agriculture department has also issued an advisory to its district units, asking them to be vigilant about the unrecommended cotton seeds coming from Gujarat to Punjab. In Punjab, the most common cotton seed is the genetically modified (GM) bollgard-II BT seed. A 450gram packet of this seed costs Rs 800 and two packets are used in an acre.
 
 Some dealers and even farmers are bringing BT cotton seeds from Gujarat at lower rates. Cotton sowing picks pace from April 20, after the harvest of wheat in Punjab. Cotton was sown in 3.82 lakh hectares in Punjab in 2017.
 
 The Mansa chief of BKU (Ekta Ugrahan), Ram Singh Bhainibaga, said they had handed the spurious seeds found near railway tracks at Khokhar Kalan to the police. “These incidents point to spurious seeds being put on sale. Police need to investigate who threw these packets and why,” he said.
 
 When contacted, Punjab agriculture department joint director Sukhdev Singh said the department was serious about stopping the sale of spurious and unrecommended cotton seeds. “We have asked district authorities to keep a strict vigil. It is a matter of concern that some persons are bringing seeds from Gujarat in trains,” he said.
 
 He said the department was preparing a list of varieties of seeds recommended by Punjab Agricultural University (PAU), which would be made public in a couple of days. He said 38 varieties of cotton seeds were recommended for sowing last year, and these varities might increase in the coming seasion.
 
 
