CHANDIGARH: Despite being exempted from paying  , the cash-strapped   (MC) has issued notices to defence personnel, both service and retired.

 There are around 10,000 defence personnel settled in the city. The Chandigarh administration, in 2015, had exempted defence personnel from paying house tax. Those owning residential property upto 300 square yards are exempted from property tax. The benefit is not applicable on part of the property which is rented out. Defence personnel have been pressing for complete exemption from house tax on the pattern of Punjab.
 
 The civic body, which is on a spree of sending property tax notices to city residents, has not spared the defence personnel. 
 
 78-year-old AK Rishi, who retired from Indian Air Force as sergeant, received a property tax notice for his residential property below 300 squareyard. “I was shocked when I got the notice,” said Rishi. “When I visited the MC office, the staff told me that I will have to pay the tax for the last three years.” H M S Dhaliwal, a resident of Sector 35, who retired as master warrant officer from Indian Air Force, stated that he refused to pay the tax and along with other defence personnel has submitted a representation to the MC.
 
 Unhappy with the treatment being meted out to defence personnel, Air Marshal (retired) Randhir Singh said they are being harassed due to failure on part of the corporation to maintain proper record. “MC is struggling with funds and are on a mission to generate revenue. They are just concerned with revenue and are not bothered about the residents,” said Randhir Singh.
 
 Additional commissioner   maintained that the defence personnel having house upto 300 square yard are exempted from property tax and said they should not have got the notices. “I will get it checked and ensure that no notices are sent to them,” assured Garg.
 
 Since the concept was introduced in 2013-14, the MC is collecting the tax through network of 18 e-Sampark centres, 11 e-Sampark kiosks, and 14 Gram Sampark centres. The residents have been complaining about receiving notices despite paying the property tax regularly.
 
 Due to corrective measures not taken over the years, the fixed deposit (FD) of the MC decreased from Rs 448 crore to around Rs 54 crore, while its revenue fell from Rs 169 crore to Rs 107 crore from 2013-14 to 2017-18.
 
 
