NEW DELHI: In an effort to pave the way for the inclusion of the ‘persons with disabilities’ in the mainstream, the government has decided to introduce a chapter on the differently-abled sportspersons in the school curriculum from the next academic session onwards.

 
 
  
 
 
 In a first such initiative by the government, the chapter, which will focus on the “sports activities and opportunities available under various schemes of the government for persons with disabilities”, will form part of the   (National Council of Educational Research and Training) textbooks from the 2019-2020 academic session.
 
 NCERT guides the Centre and the state government on school syllabus and text books. All the Central Board of Secondary Education ( ) affiliated schools follow the NCERT curriculum.
 
 
 
 
 Not only this, the name of the subject ‘Health and Physical Education’ in the NCERT textbooks may be changed to ‘Health, Physical Education and Sports’ in the school curriculum from next year.
 
 A meeting in this regard was recently held here between the top bureaucrats of the ministry of social justice and empowerment (Department of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities), ministry of human resource development (HRD) and the officials of the Sports Authority of India (SAI), Paralympic Committee of India (PCI) and Special Olympic Bharat (SOB).
 
 “One chapter on the sports activities and opportunities available under various schemes of the Government of India for persons with disabilities may be incorporated in the school syllabus. The ‘Team Division’ of the SAI will prepare the draft study material in consultation with concerned federations which will be forwarded to the HRD ministry through a letter from secretary sports (Rahul Bhatnagar),” say the minutes of the meeting, a copy of which is with TOI.
 
 It’s been learnt that the concerned ministries have ‘in principle’ consented to include the chapter. The modalities will be finalized soon. According to an official, the chapter could form part of the curriculum from class 5 to 9, but a final decision hasn’t yet been taken.
 
 “It’s an important step towards educating the society about the various welfare schemes available to the differently-abled people in the sports ecosystem.”
 
