CHENNAI: With tunnels built well ahead of the deadline and construction of the elevated corridor going on in full swing, the facility to connect   is taking shape as the installation of tracks will begin soon. Chennai   Limited ( ) has called for tenders to install, test and commission tracks in the elevated, underground sections and the depot at Wimco Nagar. The 9km phase-1 extension project, launched at an estimated cost of Rs 3,770 crore between   and Wimco Nagar, is expected to be ready by 2019.

 Metro rail officials said according to the contract, the company taking up the job has to install ballast-less tracks of standard gauge within a year to get the metrorail lines ready on time for opening by mid next year. 
 
 Efforts are also simultaneously on to find a contractor for design, manufacture, installation of the overhead equipment (OHE) that will supply power for the operation of trains. 
 
 “Once the tracks are installed and tested, other electrical and electronic systems like the OHE and signalling systems will be installed one by one, while the stations get ready. They will also be tested and certified before we decide on trial runs,” an official said.
 
 CMRL is expecting to complete OHE installation in about 18 months on the entire stretch and the depot. The company that installs and tests the OHE is also expected to train personnel for maintenance support. 
 
  CMRL is also building an elevated maintenance depot at Wimco Nagar that will cater to servicing the expanding fleet. 
 
 It will, however, handle small day-to-day maintenance work while the depot at Koyambedu will fix major faults in the trains.
 
 In about a year after the project was launched in July, 2016, the first tunnel between Washermenpet and   was completed in September 2017, followed by the second tunnel in October, 2017. 
 
 CMRL officials said they could complete tunnel building, which forms the major part of the construction work, ahead of the deadline as the soil condition was favourable for faster tunnel boring. 
 
 Simultaneously, work to build the pile foundation to assemble the viaduct for the seven-kilometre elevated corridor between Korukkupet and Wimco Nagar also began.
 
 
