MUMBAI: A consortium of   and Italy’s Astaldi will build the 10-km Bandra-Versova sealink in five years. The state government on Friday awarded the Rs 6,994 -crore project to the consortium though the bid, lowest among the five in the fray, was Rs 1,477 crore higher than the Rs 5,516 crore estimate made by the government in November 2016 while inviting bids.

 Construction of the sealink, expected to reduce the Bandra-Versova travel time to around 10 minutes, is likely to begin in October. The smooth drive will come at a premium for motorists as the minimum toll will be Rs 130 when the sealink opens by 2023. 
 
 “The letter of acceptance has been issued to the joint venture,” said Radheshyam Mopalwar, MD of  , which is in charge of the project. P 4
 
 The MSRDC board on Friday cleared the bid which quoted Rs 6,994 crores – Rs1,477 crores higher than the authority’s estimated cost of Rs5,516 crores for the civil works of the project. However, the engineers said the bid cost is absolutely reasonable and relevant as the cost of Rs 5516 was first estimated in NOvember 2016 when the tender was floated almost two years ago. 
 
 VBSL is an important part of the coastal road project, as it proposes to connect south Mumbai to the western suburbs via upcoming coastal road to be built by BMC and existing BWSL. It is expected to be complete by 2023.
 
 Reliance Infra has already been awarded the bid for 32.32-km-long Wadala-Ghatkopar-Thane-Kasarvadavali Metro. For VBSL Rinfra has partnered with an Italian firm. The other bidders for the project were joint ventures of ITD Cem-Hyundai Engineering and L&T Infrastructure-Samsung C&T. 
 
 Earlier in January this year, MSRDC had appointed a US company, Louis Berger, as the consultant for the 18 km sea link at a cost of Rs109 crores. Meanwhile, MSRDC has received all the permissions needed for construction. Connecting the Bandra Worli Sea Link, the bridge will have interchanges at Otter’s club in Bandra near carter road and Juhu Koliwada apart from an exit at Versova.
 
 This sea-link project, worth about Rs 7000-7200 crore, is expected to be completed within five years. In 2016, this same project was worth Rs 5,500 core. In December 2017, the Anil Ambani-led Reliance Infrastructure had replaced its Chinese partner for the sea-link project. Reliance was one of the five companies that had bid for the sea-link work. Like Reliance, other Indian companies had gone for a joint venture too. This project was first proposed in 2009, but after the idea of coastal road was floated, it was abandoned. Now, this project has gained momentum, since there is a delay in the coastal road project due to opposition from environmentalists and Juhu residents. However, since then, the cost of the project has gone up substantially, almost 1400 cr.
 
 For motorists, the sea link will be costlier proposition than the same coastal road stretch by Rs 3,500 crore. The additional minimum Rs 250-300 one-way toll in the case of the new sea link will be a burden on commuters for nearly 30 years minimum. Earlier, the proposal was to build the sealink through private investment through build, operate and transfer (BOT) as coastal road on the same stretch was the priority. But MSRDC sent a fresh proposal to build the link with borrowing and government funding as coastal road was being opposed by the residents since they said it would damage mangroves and fisherfolks’ areas.
 
 "A tunnel for the coastal road at Juhu chowpatty could have beene risky. The sea link will have two cable-stayed bridges, akin to the existing Bandra-Worli sea link (BWSL). These bridges will not come in the way of Juhu airport runway's flying path or funnel. In the case of the sea link’s connectors at Juhu, Bandra and Versova, MSRDC needs high court permission for building above mangrove patches. Had BMC taken up coastal road, it would have taken even more to get fresh CRZ and environment clearances and thus delayed the entire project,” said an official while justifying government decision to go ahead with link rather than coastal road along bandra-versova coast.
 
 
