GHAZIABAD: The health condition of TV journalist   continued to be critical on Monday a day after he was allegedly shot at by bike-borne men near his home in  . Following a four-hour surgery at the Yashoda Hospital in Nehru Nagar to extricate the bullets, Anuj has been admitted to the ICU where he has been placed on ventilator support.

 The scribe’s family members have alleged that the police did not act on an application submitted in March in which Anuj had said that Rs 10 lakh has allegedly been paid to contract killers in order to eliminate him. “The application was submitted to former SSP   who in turn passed it to Kavi Nagar police station SHO Samarjeet Singh. In 2004 too, the main accused, Shekhar Chaudhary, had attempted to murder Anuj. He had opened fire on Anuj who escaped narrowly. An FIR had been registered against Shekhar,” Anuj’s brother-in-law, Deepak Tomar, told TOI.
 
 According to Anuj’s family members, his elder brother Sensar Pal, had been gruesomely murdered nearly 25 years ago in which Shekhar’s hand was also suspected. Sensar Pal had been hit on the head and then burnt alive but no FIR had reportedly been registered as the matter had been settled by village elders.
 
 Doctors at Yashoda Hospital said Anuj has suffered a lot of blood loss and has been placed under constant supervision of a team of doctors. “The patient is critical. He is on ventilator support and life-saving drugs. The next five to six days are crucial for his survival. The bullets were extricated after a four-hour long surgery. His blood pressure levels are fluctuating and chances of infection are high,” hospital spokesperson,  , told TOI.
 
 On Monday, the police registered an FIR against Shekhar Chaudhary, who is in jail for the attack on BJP leader   in August 2016, along with eight other members of his family including three women. Shekhar’s two wives, his son Vishal as well as Vishal’s wife are among the nine persons named as accused in the FIR. The FIR has been registered under sections including 147 (rioting), 307 (attempt to murder) and 120B (criminal conspiracy) of IPC. The family members have alleged in their complaint that a plan to eliminate Anuj had been hatched by Shekhar from Dasna jail where he is imprisoned.
 
 Meanwhile, a delegation of journalists submitted a memorandum to district magistrate Ritu Maheshwari as well as SSP Vaibhav Krishna on Monday demanding immediate arrest of the culprits. The police have recovered some CCTV footages and are also examining the call details to trace the culprits.
 
 “No arrests have been made so far. An inquiry is underway to ascertain as to why the application made by Anuj expressing an imminent threat to his life was not taken seriously. We have ample evidence at our disposal and have identified the locations of some suspects who will be nabbed very soon,” SSP Vaibhav Krishna told TOI.
 
 
