CHANDIGARH: The Punjab government has given a clean chit to two IAS officers   and   arrested by the state vigilance bureau and later suspended in corruption cases during the SAD-BJP regime.

 In a recent decision, the state government decided not to further pursue Janjua’s prosecution sanction case with the central government for allegedly accepting Rs 2 lakh bribe from a Ludhiana industrialist in November 2009.
 
  In Garg’s case, the state government has decided to drop the chargesheet against him in the 2012-Patiala land scam for allegedly selling 6,000 sq yds of government land worth Rs 250 crore at Rs 6.3 crore, showing it as private land in files.
 
 A 1989-batch IAS officer, Janjua is now posted as principal secretary of department of welfare of freedom fighter and printing and stationery department. The 1998-batch IAS officer Garg is secretary of the agriculture department. A senior officer privy to the development said that, “The state government has decided not to further pursue the cases against Janjua and Garg.” It is learnt that Janjua has now applied with the state government for proceeding on deputation in the central government.
 
 Then Punjab director of industries department, Janjua was arrested by the state vigilance bureau on November 9, 2009, for allegedly accepting Rs 2 lakh bribe in his office from a Ludhiana-based industrialist for transferring government land located near the industrialist’s unit. A case under the prevention of corruption Act was registered against Janjua at the Mohali vigilance bureau police station. Later, he was put under suspension and the state government had on April 27, 2010, granted prosecution sanction in Janjua’s case. 
 
 It was in January 2015 that the Mohali trial court had directed the state vigilance bureau to get prosecution sanction from the central government as the state could not grant prosecution sanction in case of an IAS officer. Janjua was later reinstated by the state government after he was granted bail by the court. Thereafter, the state government had written to the central government for granting the prosecution sanction but the case was pending till date. Now, the state   government has taken a decision that there is no need to pursue the case with the central government for seeking Janjua’s prosecution sanction.
 
 Then Patiala DC, Garg was arrested by the Punjab vigilance bureau in March 2013 from New Delhi but was later released on bail by the Patiala court in June 2013 after the vigilance bureau had failed to file a chargesheet within the required time of 90 days. 
 
 Later, Garg was reinstated. It was in May 2012 that Garg, along with five other revenue officials, was put under suspension by the state government after the alleged scam came to the fore. The case was registered at Patiala vigilance bureau police station on November 9, 2012, under the prevention of corruption Act against Garg, five revenue officials and some other individuals.
 
 
