Nagpur: Krazy Castle amusement park owner Haldiram Foods has been asked to produce documents to substantiate its claim of Rs162 crore compensation for vacating park land before the contract expires. In the meeting held on Sunday, Haldiram had sought a month’s time to produce them but divisional commissioner Anup Kumar asked the owners to submit the papers as soon as possible. Kumar also said that there was no need for legal vetting of the agreement between Haldiram and Nagpur Improvement Trust (NIT). A chartered accountant would be asked to go through the documents and fix the compensation. However, it was not clear even after the meeting as to who would pay up, NIT or MahaMetro. Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari had constituted a three-member committee headed by Kumar to calculate the compensation amount. While the decision was taken in February-end, the committee first met on May 20. The NIT has decided to terminate Haldiram’s contract on May 31 and hand over the park land to MahaMetro on June 1. Haldiram’s contract with NIT is till 2022. The concessionaire wants compensation for revenue loss for this period. In September 2017, MahaMetro had sought only 25% of Krazy Castle land. It had offered to shift the rides at its own cost. However, Haldiram turned down the proposal claiming that a truncated park would lose its charm and hence revenue. In January, MahaMetro asked NIT to hand over the entire land, which Gadkari approved. MahaMetro plans to develop another amusement park on Krazy Castle land in the space that will remain open after constructing Nagpur Metro viaduct. A source in MahaMetro said that a consultant had been hired for preparing a financial model for developing the park. “We want the concessionaire to provide us upfront amount, which we will use to pay land cost to the NIT,” he added. The source further said that lot of commercial space would be created in the park complex. “Our share in this space would be proportional to our financial contribution in the project. We will provide the land while the concessionaire would create the infrastructure. As this park is not a part of the detailed project report (DPR), we will have to ensure that we don’t spend a single penny on it from our pocket,” he told TOI.