BENGALURU: The ministry of corporate affairs (MoCA) found that at least 11% of all registered firms in Karnataka violated norms and initiated action against them.

 According to information accessed from the Registrar of Companies (RoC), in the year after Prime Minister   announced  , at least 11,286 companies have been struck off, the fifth most in the country after Delhi and Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh-Telangana and Tamil Nadu.
 
 Overall, more than 2.26 lakh companies have been struck off at the end of December 2017, but state-wise classification is available only till July 2017.
 
 There are 1.01 lakh companies registered with the RoC in Karnataka, of which 11,286 (11%) were found to be operating as either shell companies or not carrying out any activity.
 
 
  
  
 
 “Prima facie, all of them had not filed financial statements or annual returns for a continuous period of two or more financial years and were not holding any business,” the RoC said.
 
 The finance ministry has also been cracking the whip and bank accounts of all companies struck have been restricted. This is in line with the   on black money, which, among other things, had pointed out how companies with poor financial fundamentals raising capital is a red flag.
 
 The RoC action is under the provisions of Section 248 of the Companies Act 2013. Also, with the   (CIN) of these firms now invalid, the money in these companies’ bank accounts will be frozen and scrutinized by the government.
 
 J Crasta, executive member, Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry, said: “This is a great move, and the industry needs some cleaning up. Several of these directors were helping politicians or other influential people launder money even as the firms did not do business. They even attracted FIIs and FDI, but the money was not going into the system or helping the economy.”
 
 K Ravi, president, Federation of Karnataka Chamber of Commerce and Industries, also welcomed the move: “The important thing about being struck off by the RoC is that they cannot operate their bank accounts which will give the government access to assess  .”
 
 Both Crasta and Ravi were in favour of stringent punishment as they believed such firms dent the image of Indian industry, while hurting the economy.
 
