KOLKATA: The   is planning to go high tech to deal with the long vehicle queues at major traffic junctions in the city.

 Additional CP (I)   said the city cops have proposed to introduce an inbuilt algorithm based on the using the Google line traffic data that can calculate the traffic queue at an intersection and predict the exact signal cycle according to the shifting real-time needs.
 
 Goel was speaking at a national conference on the Urban Road Traffic management and safety on Thursday.
 
 So what is the system all about? According to Goel, Kolkata police has phased out standalone signals in which calibrations were cumbersome due to varying clock timings.
 
 Linking individual signals to a system was very difficult in the old system. It has now shifted to a Wi-Fi system with technical help from Siemens. “Now, there are three ways to set the traffic signal cycle real time, based on the flow of traffic. We can use now the CCTV cameras to keep a check on real time developments. Earlier, it was difficult to check the queue length. Secondly, we could have used underground induction loop sensors that can count the number of vehicles. But then, unwanted digging will affected the system. Hence, we decided to use the  ,” he told TOI.
 
  
  
 “We found that the data uploaded on Google Maps regarding traffic congestion on the corridors is almost real time and the images captured through satellites show the volume. It is crowdsourced and rarely manipulated. Moreover, since Google uses a GPS-based system, the location of the roads is accurate,” Goel said.
 
 “We, therefore, decided to use this application to assist us in traffic management. For instance if the Google line traffic data indicates that there is a queue beyond 100 metres, immediate alerts will be sent to the control room and the concerned traffic guard to initiate corrective action,” he said.
 
  sources said the process will also evaluate data in real time. A separate software has been developed to determine the nature of vehicles as well. A team from Lalbazar will monitor the congested corridors. The concerned traffic guard will submit a report to the team about the congestion and the steps taken to improve the flow of traffic. This will include a report on how long the signal had to be operated manually to bring the situation under control,” an officer said.
 
