New Delhi: The huge disparity in the salaries of the coaches of state teams has created a lot of heartburn among the coaches. There is no structured payment as such and each state pays the coaches according to the demand or reputation of the said coach. This has created a sense of insecurity among the coaches of the   teams.

 
 
 In a meeting of the state captains and coaches in Mumbai on Monday, the coaches requested   to fix the coaches’ salaries so that none of them is left to the whims and fancies of the state associations.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 With some coaches demanding better representation of Indian coaches in the   setup, it wasn't clear if BCCI could actually come in and set the house in order.
 
 To make domestic cricket a little interesting, however, there were suggestions from BCCI to reward the top 10 domestic run-getters and wicket-takers who don't have IPL contracts with cash awards. “There should be more money in the domestic circuit to make it profitable,” a source told TOI.
 
 
 
 Meanwhile, all associations hosting IPL games have been told to improve their facilities and infrastructure while Kolkata’s   was praised for improvement on most counts.
 
 They said Eden Gardens had the best facilities in terms of entry and exit to the stadium. The state associations were told to focus on cleanliness with proper seating arrangements for spectators and cleaner toilets.
 
 Source said that the staging associations have been told to have a system of recycling waste like water bottles and other plastic waste. Through a presentation, the state bodies were also told to maintain a clean kitchen and overall hygiene.
 
 Some IPL teams have often complained about the manner in which state bodies have been maintaining their stadiums and on how the IPL outfits had to have a separate budget to install new seats and cleaning the stadium to make it match ready.
 
 “It is also the responsibility of the associations hosting the IPL games to ensure that IPL teams don’t have too many complaints after the stadium handover is done,” a source told TOI.
 
 
