HYDERABAD:   Pradesh   Committee (TPCC) president N Uttam Kumar Reddy has appealed to all the opposition parties in Telangana particularly the Telugu Desam party leadership to save democracy by voting for  , the tribal candidate fielded by the Congress for the Rajya Sabha elections against the TRS candidates. 

 "I have already urged TDP MLA Sandra Venkata Veeraiah to cooperate in the RS polls. All those MLAs who contested on Congress ticket should vote for the Congress candidate. Even the two MLAs, Komatireddy Venkat Reddy and Sampath Kumar who were expelled, will vote in the Rajya Sabha elections," Uttam said.
 
 Senior Congress leaders, including Md Ali Shabbir, Uttam Kumar Reddy, Sampath Kumar, Revanth Reddy and Komatireddy Venkat Reddy, met at the residence of leader of the Opposition K   here on Tuesday and discussed the party's future strategy, the ensuing RS polls and expressed happiness over the High Court directions to the   not to notify elections to the two   segments for the next six weeks.
 
 The meeting was unanimously of the opinion that the expulsion and suspension of Congress MLAs was a part of conspiracy by the TRS. "The Congress would have raised issues in the Assembly and would have exposed the TRS government's failures before the people. Nowhere in India have such expulsions and suspensions of all members of the main opposition party done by the ruling regime," Uttam said and demanded that they be given a copy of the video footage of council chairman Swamy Goud being injured. 
 
 Komatireddy Venkat Reddy said that KCR should learn simplicity from Mamata Banerjee and say good bye to the lavishes of Pragati Bhavan and his farm House, and start working towards fulfilling the promises he made to the people.
 
 "It is a joke that KCR is talking about federal front. Mamata Banerjee has told KCR in a polite and appropriate tone about her keenness for a non-BJP front that would include the Congress. How could KCR think that Mamata would out-rightly support him while the ruling TRS has supported the Modi government in GST and demonetisation and its MPs are not allowing the no-confidence motion against the Modi government by raising a din in Parliament?" he asked.
 
 
