Ludhiana: More than a week after the Chief Minister Captain Amrinder Singh spotted illegal mining at Satluj riverbed in Nawashahar from his chopper, the city police commissioner R N Dhoke on Wednesday dismissed SHO Police Station Meharban for not acting on one such complaint and threatening the complainant with the dire consequences. 

 The top cop took action agaisnt the SHO using rare powers under article 311 (2) (b) of the Constitution of India, with immediate effect. 
 
 The Inspector was already under suspension since March 12, for deriliction of duty and being allegedly biased in a complaint regarding encroachment. 
 
 On March 12, the Sarpanch of village Boothgarh Amrinder Singh Soni lodged a complaint with CP Dhoke along with an an audio recording showing the inspector being rude to him and threatening to lodge an FIR against him after the Sarpanch shared information about illegal sand mining with the cop. 
 
 Sarpanch Soni said, “On Sunday Night I noticed some trucks and tractor trolley of sand crossing by my village. When I called up the SHO to inform, instead of taking any action he started misbehaving with me and also threatened me with dire consequences.”
 
 He added, “I have been complaining to Meharban police about the illegal mining in our village which is located near Satluj River. The police either would remain reluctant in conducting raid or would ask us to accompany and help them arrest the accused.” 
 
 Following his complaint, Dhoke had marked a probe earlier this week on Monday. 
 
 When contacted, the Commissioner of Police, RN Dhoke said, “Inspector Jarnail Singh, SHO at police station Meharban has been found guilty for not responding to the information received by the him against the illegal sand mining through local people and for threatening them with dire consequences. For his misconduct of not responding to the complaints, I have dismissed him using rare powers under article 311 (2) (b) of the Constitution of India.”
 
 These provisions give rare power to an authority to dismiss, remove or reduce a person in rank, without holding in inquiry. 
 
 
