NAGPUR: For the second consecutive year, just before the onset of summer, water level in   has dropped to an alarmingly critical level in the first half of February itself.

 The river flow as measured on Wednesday morning at the upstream Beena confluence was 129MLD, which is far less for   (WTP) to operate at full capacity. This has already adversely affected the morning water supply in the north and eastern parts of Nagpur city and the situation may remain so for a few more days.
 
 Due to scanty rainfall in 2017 and commissioning of Chaurai dam in the upstream of Totladoh dam in neighbouring  , the water storage level in dams is less than 30%.
 
 Orange City Water (OCW) pumps 640-660 MLD water from both   river and Pench reservoir (200 MLD from Kanhan and rest from Pench reservoir).
 
 The water level in Kanhan begins to drop in April every year and like 2017 it happened this year too in February itself. “It happened in March 2016,” an NMC official from water works department told TOI. 
 
 In view of the approaching summer and demand for water, NMC-OCW had requested district collector   for release of additional water in the Kanhan river. 
 
 Following Kurve’s instructions, the water resources department, Pench irrigation, has released 50 Cusecs of water from chainage 19.4km on right bank canal (RBC).
 
 The released water from the RBC escape gate will flow through 32-km drain and river channel to reach at the Kanhan intake well in another 72 hours from Wednesday till February 10. OCW-NMC has planned for controlled supply during this period so that the adverse effect on the water supply in north and eastern parts can be minimized.
 
 OCW-NMC has started vigilance for elimination of any kind of obstruction (trench, temporary weir or diversion) and ensure normal flow of released water on this 32-km pathway to reach the Kanhan intake wells.
 
 At Kanhan WTP, the river water has been completely re-channelized towards the intake well and a temporary weir has been built to ensure no amount of river water flows downstream.
 
 
