KOCHI: The emergency council meeting convened by the Kochi corporation to discuss the Ro-Ro imbroglio on Saturday witnessed high drama. Opposition councillors picketed mayor Soumini Jain in her chambers demanding an apology for the failure to operate Ro-Ro. Police had to intervene to get her out of office to the safety of her official car from where she slipped out after it was blocked by opposition councillors.

 
 Later, the mayor who complained of physical discomfort was admitted to a private hospital.
 
 The opposition councillors have alleged that they were assaulted by the police during the ruckus. “SI Sunumon stamped on my chest. Circle inspector   also assaulted me. Our women councillors were also attacked by the police,” said  , secretary, LDF parliamentary party, Kochi corporation. After a while   fainted and a colleague took him to   general hospital. Standing committee chairperson Poornima Narayanan, CPM councillor   and LDF councillors Ambika and   alleged that they were assaulted by male cops.
 
 The corporation council witnessed unruly scenes several times during the council session which started at 2 pm. The opposition councillors who took part in the discussion wanted the mayor to step down owning up the responsibility of failure to operate the Ro-Ro service and conducting the inaugural ride “without proper licences and trained crew”. When mayor was replying to the queries raised by the councillors, opposition members trooped to the well of the council hall shouting slogans expressing dissatisfaction over the reply. Councillors belonging to the ruling front joined the melee in a bid to challenge the opposition. When the mayor tried to retreat to her chamber, a group of LDF councillors tried to block her in vain.
 
 In the mayor’s chamber, the LDF members picketed Jain demanding an apology for Ro-Ro failure. Later, the mayor convened a meeting of LDF leaders and standing committee chairpersons to break the stalemate. The mayor said that she would not tender an apology as there was no need for it.
 
 As the opposition continued the agitation, police discretely managed to take the mayor to her official car parked in the corporation office premises. The opposition councillors who rushed to the ground floor laid siege to the mayor’s car, but amidst the commotion she managed to open the door and made it to the road. It took the councillors some time to realise that mayor was missing. Some of them tried to follow the mayor but the police blocked them and this led to scuffle between police and LDF members.
 
 
