CHANDIGARH: Taking cognizance of a petition accusing the   Police for harassing people in relation to cases registered following violence that had erupted after conviction of dera sacha sauda (DSS) chief   in rape cases, the Punjab and   high court has asked the Punjab government to produce the status of all such cases.

 “The government shall apprise the court about number of FIRs which are under investigation at the moment which were registered as an aftermath of the arrest of dera chief and stage of investigation thereof. It would also be ensured that investigation is conducted strictly as per law and no harassment is made to any individual,” ordered the court. 
 
 Justice Rajan Gupta passed these orders while hearing a petition filed by   alias Bittu, a resident of district Muktsar, demanding an independent probe from any agency, including  , into all such cases registered related to the dera violence. 
 
 Petitioner in the case submitted before the HC that he is one of the persons who were alleged to have been involved in certain incidents of violence after arrest of dera chief-Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh. 
 
 He argued that he and several other similarly placed persons were being harassed by the police even now. 
 
 “Petitioner has been implicated on the plea that he instigated the mob to commit arson and violence. The investigation of the cases related to violence be entrusted to some independent authority or a premier agency such as CBI,” argued the counsel for petitioner before HC. 
 
 The matter was heard on January 25 by the single bench of Justice Rajan Gupta.
 
 The case would now been fixed for February 12 for further hearing, when the state has to file reply petitioner’s contentions. 
 
 Following the conviction of DSS chief Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh on August 25, 2017, by a CBI court in Panchkula, large scale violence took place in the states of Haryana and Punjab.
 
 While Haryana had suffered maximum loss of around 42 lives and property, Punjab had not suffered any casualty but had suffered damage to private and public property. 
 
 As per a status report, submitted by Punjab before the HC on August 26, 2017, as many as 51 incidents were reported in Punjab and 39 FIRs were registered related to the violence. 
 
 
