THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The state has decided to undertake the cleaning of six water bodies, including three rivers and three lakes, under the national hydrology project funded by the   ( ).

 This includes the major polluted rivers Pamba, Periyar and Bharathappuzha and the backwaters  , Sasthamcotta and Vembanad. A preliminary discussion in this regard was undertaken by the water resources department officials and the WB officials.
 
 “Our lakes and rivers are highly polluted and are not safe either for human beings or animals. We have selected those water bodies that are top on priority list and had preliminary discussions with the World Bank team w ho have agreed to our proposal. We will kick-start the formalities at the earliest,” additional chief secretary (labour and water resources) Tom Jose said.
 
 The WB has sanctioned Rs 42 crore to the state to prepare the detailed project reports and other preparatory works for the project. The WB project was launched across the country for which the Union cabinet had given clearance to the proposal in April 2016 itself. Of the total outlay of Rs 3,679.76 crore, 50% of the amount (Rs 1,839.88 crore) would be WB loan which would be repaid by the Centre. The remaining 50% would be the central assistance from the budgetary support. Both the components, the WB loan component and central assistance to the states, shall be given to the states as grants. This would mean that the states will not have any financial burden due to the project.
 
  
  
 Desilting of the dams and the cleaning up of the water bodies have been two major tasks that the water resources department was asked to undertake immediately after the new government came to power. Water resources department sources said that the amount that would be received by the state for undertaking the cleaning up mission will be decided by the WB on the basis of the detailed project report. Among the three rivers, Pamba and Periyar have been cited as the most polluted. While Periyar has been facing heavy increase in the chemical content from factory effluents, Pamba has been getting polluted mainly from the plastic and faecal wastes, especially during the Sabarimala pilgrimage season.
 
 All the three lakes, Vembanad, Sasthamcotta and Ashtamudi, that are of international importance and have been classified as Ramsar sites, have been found to be heavily polluted. While various studies have found that micro-plastic content is very high in Vembanad, Ashtamudi lake has been a deposit location of the wastes from Kollam town.
 
