GHAZIABAD: The father of  , the   IX student of  , who was found   on April 16, has said he suspects “a bigger racket” behind the plot to kill his son and questioned several aspects of the sequence of events mentioned by police.

 Pramod Sharma (42), a manager to former Delhi MP and Congress leader Jai Prakash Agarwal, also objected to the term “friend” used by   police to describe the two accused who allegedly drugged his son Ayush and then smashed his head with stones before dumping the body in a muck-filled ditch in Greater Noida’s Ecotech area. The accused also tied stones to the body to prevent it from surfacing.
 
 Ayush was killed on April 16 and his body lay in the ditch for four days before the police traced the prime suspect— a 19-year-old youth identified as Virat — who led them to the spot on April 20. Police said that Virat and Ayush had met just “12-13 days” ago through a 17-year-old Class X student who was a common friend. Virat decided to kidnap Ayush because he desperately needed money and killed him when he refused to call up his parents and tell them that he had been abducted, police had said.
 
 Virat’s name had been mentioned by Ayush’s father when he lodged a missing person’s complaint at Indirapuram police station on April 17. 
 
 “My son was very open with us and we knew all his friends. But he never said anything about these youths whom he had met just 10-12 days back. The names of Virat or the Class X boy never cropped up in our discussions,” Sharma told TOI. “I am not questioning the police investigation, but I have my doubts. I feel a bigger   is behind the crime.”
 
 Sharma said he would meet senior police officers on Monday and seek a clarification on the sequence of events. According to police, Ayush had been asked by Virat to meet him outside Vaishali metro station on April 16. The two, along with the Class X student, then rode a bike to Ecotech area.
 
 Sharma said police had not told the family anything about Ayush’s slippers or his spectacles. “It seems quite implausible that three kids were on a bike and no traffic policeman stopped them during their 50km journey. A fourth accused was also mentioned by police. Where is he? I hope he is caught soon,” he said.
 
 “If my son was kidnapped as claimed by police, why did I not get any ransom call? The number from which Virat had called my wife on April 16 is also registered in Jharkhand. The number is now switched off,” he added.
 
 The father said although Ayush was not much interested in studies, he excelled in computer programmes and wanted to become an ethical hacker.
 
 Ghaziabad SSP Vaibhav Krishna said: “A hunt is on to arrest the third accused. A detailed investigation in the case is underway.”
 
 
