Last month at the Global Investors’ Summit titled Magnetic Maharashtra Convergence 2018 — a curious mashup of Powerpoint presentations, Bollywood actor cameos and Chhatrapati Shivaji impersonators — you could have divided the audience into two just by watching them react to the heavily-dropped word ‘disruptive’. For the laptop-trolley-wielding, blazer-clad front-benchers, this shiny synonym for ‘ground-breaking innovation’ was a precious inhouse high-five but the rest in not-so-smart casuals only seemed to tolerate it as a periodic gust of corporate hot air in a very cold room.

 Freshly rehabilitated by bean-bag-favouring millennials as a positive adjective, ‘disruptive’ belongs to a bloating swirl of management flourishes which ambushed the country during its recent spate of global economic summits. To lay visitors at these conferences, it appeared as if businesses had collectively tired of “synergising, incentivising and leveraging” and had decided to “disrupt” the market with “sustainable systems” and “scalable models” to boost the “ecosystem” with lots of “traction” in a bid to have an “impact”.
 
 Besides, in cold meeting rooms, “every investor is now chasing the ‘unicorn’,” informs Harsh Snehanshu, co-founder of writing and video content platform YourQuote, referring to the term for a startup with a valuation of US$1 billion or more. 
 
 For the innocent outsider, such alienating terms indicate that the path to trillion-dollar economies and unicorns not only entails suffering through spirit-sapping pyramids and pie-charts but also profitable alliterations and empty expressions accessible only to your HR department. Words like “basis points” and “rightsizing”, for instance, remind reformed banker and writer   of a long-running campus in-joke: “MBA is the acronym for ‘Manne Baddu Aavde Che’ (Gujarati for ‘I know everything’)”. For IIM alumnus and writer Rashmi Bansal, who believes ‘your product should speak for itself’, such aggressive pitches have the same effect as “hearing someone say ‘I’m very beautiful’.” 
  
 Call it the verbal equivalent of a tribal handshake or a lucrative entrepreneurial selfie, the fact is that such lulling management speak refuses to be laughed off. From the time the guys at Silicon Valley imagined a box outside which the world was urged to think till the time bosses decided they want to “touch base” with employees who in turn “revert” to them, self-important bureaucratese has sneakily persisted and discriminated for long. 
 Trouble is, unlike the snobbery of artists who “juxtapose”, judges who quote Shakespeare in judgments and literary figures forever itching to “change the discourse”, this verbal corporate confetti is not only hard to escape but also taken seriously.
 
 Even discerning minds aren’t above its vacuous spell. So, you now have newspaper editors asking reporters to “broadbase” their stories without a smirk and daycare-centre owners establishing “systems and processes” (read Whatsapp updates for parents) to keep an eye on toddlers. Routinely, Kunal Maheshwari, co-founder of a mobile app, called All Is Well, catches himself saying “incentivise” while talking to his wife about treats for his kids after they have finished their homework, and is even guilty of having asked a teacher who wanted him to enroll his kids for an extracurricular activity: “What is the ROI on this?”
 
 Unsurprisingly, in the West, revenge against the stultifying business prose has not only spawned comedy — Charlie Chaplin mocked corporate “scientific management” through a 1936 film, cartoonist Scott Adams satirised office jargon in his famous comic strip ‘Dilbert’ and sitcoms like ‘The Office’ punished it with awkward pauses — but also triggered a plain English campaign. A British newspaper recently advocated calling out such nonsensical managerial terms with a full-fledged “anti-bullshit movement”. Closer home, though, as economic summits and startups proliferate, we’re stuck with the bizspeak.
 
 
 
 : A way of describing technology that displaces another but given that everyone wants to disrupt an existing market, this term is used for just about anything which might sound new. Which means disruptive ideas are very rarely taken seriously.
 
 
 : Revert actually means reversing or undoing. So if you are reverting to a mail, you aren’t replying so much as unsending it. 
 
 
 : Used to peddle just about any rehashed idea. As abused as “unique” or “never-before”.
 
 
 : Blatantly abused fancy word for “use”. Example: I want to leverage sales force to drive revenues.
 
 
 : Not to be confused with the legal term which would mean you’ve done something wrong, it refers to a plan that can be executed. Of course, many use it just to sound intelligent. When the startups get down to the nitty gritties of the plan, an insider says, “the real actionable picture looks very different”.
 
 
 : A word both investors and pitchers are newly sentimental about. Scalable model refers to one that is capable of being easily expanded on demand. Mostly an exaggeration as there is no way to predict what part of your product would actually have more demand. But then, “expand” is so 90s.
 
 
 : Used to describe even the most basic code or software. When someone is saying “I leveraged proprietary algorithm”, he is really saying: “I used my code”.
 
 
 : It means the number of users on your platform or service. You can’t just count your friends for this.
 
 
 : Be it a literary festival or a climate change discussion, this one’s a default panel favourite. Favoured by the e-commerce industry and social entrepreneurs who use it to describe a business that earns and survives on its own, this one ends up being a convenient exaggeration.
 
 
 : A highly overrated term for an event where no one wants to buy and everyone turns up only to sell. Startups profit more through personal introductions to the big fish than networking events.
 
 
 : One of the most recycled adjectives, this prefix makes your business look eco-friendly even if it could actually be hogwash. For instance, if your firm converts ethanol into petrol, the carbon used to produce the ethanol defeats any claims of it being environment-friendly.
 
 
 : The newfangled cousin of downsizing that means cutting a firm down to its right size. Essentially, an excuse to fire people.
 
 
 : To motivate employees by dangling carrots or incentives. Aggregators give a lot of incentives to the end users. They call it incentives but they are actually a cost businesses incur to make their product a success as compared to their competitors. There would have been no incentives if there were no competitors.
 
 
 : The swish cousin of “attention”. Translation: ‘Are you thinking about us?”
 
 
 
 : A business analyst’s classic way of washing his hands of any personal responsibility while drafting reports.
 
 
 : When startups change their entire business model because it wasn’t working out but don’t want to embarrass themselves by admitting failure, this phrase offers a cover-up. However, people now seem to be reverting to the neutral “change”.
 
 
