BHOPAL: Representatives of the   (QCI), who were going around the city on Sunday to assess sanitation and hygiene conditions in the state capital were pleasantly surprised by the ‘tehzeeb’ in the city of lakes.

  
  
 
 The team will cover 300 locations for physical verification of   in the city under the third Swachh Sarvekshan. On Sunday afternoon, the survey team walked into an alley in the walled city. A member went out to a kid, who was dressed in a Pathani suit. “How would you assess cleanliness in your area,” QCI member quizzed the kid. The teenager offered to reply only if the team agreed to sip Sulemani Chai. “If you have tea with us, we will reply,” he said.
 
 The team, needless to say, was visibly touched by the hospitality. The kid along with his friends took members of the team to narrow alleys. “I hope you find it clean to your satisfaction,” the child questioned. Typical Bhopali bluntness took the QCI members by surprise as the children’s parents invited them to have a quick meal. The team politely refused.
 
 The QCI has been roped in by the Union ministry of housing and urban affairs to encourage large-scale citizen participation and create awareness among all sections and strata of the society about the importance of working together towards making towns and cities a better place to live in.
 
 BMC official said team members would visit around 300 locations. Around 100 locations were covered till Sunday evening and the team visited zone 3, 13, 14 and 15 on Sunday.
 
 “The response forms validation of efforts of the civic body,” said an official. The QCI team will be in the city until February 28.
 
 The survey offers a comprehensive assessment of cleanliness level and level of a municipal body's preparedness to help government mentor and guide cities on the basis of needs and gaps. Negative marking will also come in play in case a civic body gives wrong info.
 
 Bhopal, which stood second in the ranking last year, is expecting to go one better and earns the tag of the cleanest city in India.
 
