CHANDIGARH: The scientific instruments, lying idle in the science and engineering departments of the Panjab   (PU), will soon be shifted to the University Centre of Instrumentation and Microelectronics (UCIM/CIL), so that these can be utilised as a common facility. 

 These instruments will be accessible to all the departments for carrying out experiments and will help in generating income for the university. This was decided in a meeting recently, where the former dean of research promotion cell mooted the proposal considering that several scientific instruments are not being used by various departments.
 
 The UCIM/CIL will maintain the instruments and equipment and then, the make them available for use by other educational institutions on certain charges, so that revenue is also generated. “There are many scientific equipment that require high maintenance. This high maintenance costs a lot and not many departments are able to maintain this high-end equipment. So, they lie unused in the departments. The idea is to get these instruments at one place in the UCIM/CIL, so that these can be maintained and departments can make full use of them,” said former dean of research promotion cell Prof O P Katare, who mooted the proposal. 
 
 The matter of the old and unused equipment and machines has been earlier discussed in the meetings of the senate and syndicate. In one of the senate meeting, held on October 9, 2016, it was decided that a committee would be formed to enquire about the expensive old machine and equipment that had been lying unused or in  . The decision had come following the discussion on the matter of writing-off an ICP Plasmascan Model 8410 procured by the geology department of the varsity in 1988.
 
 The machine was procured at a cost of Rs 9 lakh under a DST project. A meeting of the committee to write off obsolete articles/equipment/apparatus was held in April 2016 to decide on writing-off this machine, since the machine had become non-functional and obsolete. 
 
 The committee had discussed, in detail, to write-off the machine and members said that the machine could not be made functional due to the non-availability of spare parts, electronic components and the supplier company of   has stopped dealing with such equipment.
 
 Like this ICP Plasmascan Model 8410, there are equipment and instruments lying unused in the science and engineering departments, which would not be put to use by the UCIM/CIL. 
 
 
