Erode: They headed out for trekking to celebrate their 100{+t}{+h} day of their marriage. But it ended in husband losing his life and wife battling for her life with 90% burn injuires at a government hospital on Sunday. R Vivek, 27, of Mahatmapuram in Kavindapadi, married his college mate and lover Divya three months ago. A diploma holder, Vivek was working in a private company in Bengaluru. He got a job in Dubai a year ago. Divya was a housewife but later she was working in a private company. After the marriage, Vivek left for Dubai leaving his wife in his house. He found a new house in Dubai and wished to take Divya with him. Vivek came to his village from Dubai to take his wife along with him while returning on March 28.  Before going to Dubai, the couple had planned to celebrate their 100{+t}{+h} day of their marriage by trekking on Western Ghats and they had approached a club in Chennai for the same.  Vivek asked his friends T Tamilselvan, 26, of the same village, and S Balaji to accompany them for trekking. While Balaji refused, Tamilselvan agreed to go with them.  “Tamilselvan also initially refused to go with them. But, I don’t know when he accepted their request,” Balaji said. “I came to know that Tamilselvan also went with Vivek only after seeing their photos on Facebook,” Balaji added. Vivek, who got stuck in the forest fire, succumbed to his burn injuries on the spot while Divya died at the government hospital without responding to treatment. Tamilselvan also died in the forest fire. Family members of the victims have rushed to Theni to receive the bodies.  Talking to TOI, Vivek’s mother R Thavamani said her son Vivek married Divya about three months ago. “Both have wished to celebrate their 100th day of their marriage life,” she said.  Vivek belonged to Mudaliar community and Divya ‘Vanniar’ community. Initially both their families did not accept to their marriage. However, Vivek’s family convinced at last and performed the marriage and reception. “But, Divya family did not support the marriage,” Balaji said.  Tamilselvan’s father Thangarasu, 57, is running a cycle selling shop in Kavindapady and his mother Poongodi, 52, is a housewife.  Along with these deceased, G Kannan, 26, of Kavindapadi, M Prabhu, 30, T Senthil Kumar, 38, his wife Kavitha, 35, daughter Neha, 9, from Chennimalai have also gone to Kurangani for trekking. They were rescued with burn injuries and they were getting treatment at the government hospital.