BENGALURU: With 13 cops coming under attack in the past week, Bengaluru City police officers are drawing flak from their political bosses, including home minister R Ramalinga Reddy.

 Taking cognizance of the development, police commissioner T Suneel Kumar convened an emergency meeting of senior police officers on Friday night to discuss the issue and boost confidence among the police personnel.
 
 The attacks on policemen took social media by storm, with many fearing the safety of ordinary people. Minister Reddy told TOIthat the home department was taking all possible steps to bring lawbreakers to book. He directed the police top brass to act against anti-social elements.
 
 Adding to the embarrassment are photographs and videos of attacks going viral online. The latest incident is the snatching of a rifle from a constable by miscreants at Tatanagar, near Kodigehalli. This apart, a woman police sub-inspector attached to Jeevanbima Nagar police station, has alleged she was harassed by some men whom she had chided for smoking in a public place.
 
 
 
 
 The issue of attacks on cops surfaced on Friday following reports of two Banaswadi constables being attacked allegedly by miscreants. The instances are: JAN 11: Banaswadi police head constable Manjunath and constable Bhootaiah assaulted allegedly by a sixmember gang on Kammanahalli Main Road. Two arrested JAN 12: HAL police SI Naveen Kumar and police constable   attacked allegedly by threetechiesin front of Brookfield Mall, near KundalahalliGate. Allthree arrested JAN 15: KG Halli head constables Mallikarjun and Ravindra, constables Anand Shirol and Basavaraj Tonape attacked allegedly by two Congo nationals at HBR Layout. Both arrested JAN 15: Bagalagunte head constable   and constable Harish attacked allegedly by three men in T Dasarahalli. Two arrested JAN 16: JJ Nagar constable   assaulted at Obalesh Colony. No arrests JAN 17: Kodigehalli police constables Mahadevappa and Siddappa attacked at  , rifle snatched. No arrests; rifle still not found.
 
