New Delhi:   and   have   to   being announced to provide   from the  . Asserting that they are not being consulted, citizen groups have claimed that measures like amending the master plan will only lead to extra load on existing infrastructure and compound parking, waste disposal and drainage problems.

 DDA’s decision to allow just three days for filing objections to the proposed amendments — instead of the usual month-and-a-half — has not gone down well the RWAs. The Confederation of NCR RWA, Dwarka Forum, United Residents Joint Action, East Delhi RWA Joint Front Federation, Delhi RWA Forum and Delhi Residents Forum are among the groups that have demanded a more “consultative and structured process” to provide amnesty to traders.
 
 
  
 
 Chetan Sharma, general secretary the Confederation of NCR RWA, said such “ad hoc and haphazard” measures couldn’t provide lasting solutions. “Governance can’t be this haphazard. A monitoring committee came into play in the first place because civic bodies and DDA failed to stop violations. Now, the law breakers are being rewarded. It will only lead to a clash in the interests of traders and residents. This backdoor entry of amendments will lead to parking, pollution and infrastructural problems.” Sharma wondered how a master plan of 20 years could be amended in three days.
 
 Rajiv Kakria, a member of GK-I RWA, claimed that the problems being faced by Delhi today were largely caused by a flawed master plan that allowed commercialization in residential areas. “All these years, civic bodies allowed illegal construction. They misguided the Supreme Court and reduced Delhi to a mess,” he alleged. V K Arora of Delhi Resident’s Forum echoed the sentiments, saying the corporations “kept relaxing norms to allow more and more construction”. 
 
 The United Residents Joint Action (Urja) — an apex body of Delhi RWAs — termed the manner in which the amendments were being pushed as “unmindful and unacceptable”. Ashutosh Dikshit, who currently heads Urja, said: “Now that people are being denied the opportunity to be consulted, the process has become even more opaque. While a solution to the problem has to be found, it also has to be considered why these violations were allowed in the first place. How can government officials be allowed to go scot-free? We are opposed to these amendments as they will add to infrastructure problems.” 
 
 The mood among east Delhi residents is similar. B S Vohra, president the East Delhi RWA Joint Front Federation, said two of the three days provided to the public to give feedback were Saturday and Sunday. “Is it realistic to send your response in such a short time?” Vohra said the proposed amendments would allow such establishments not only on the main streets, but also in inner colony roads. “Basement godowns will come up all over the place, and the city will be in an even more mess. How can just paying money be justified to override the basics of the master plan,” Vohra said. V N Bali, president, RWA Federation, Delhi East, agreed: “The initial urban plan discouraged mixed zones. But rules were violated and haphazard commercialization took place by illegally converting residential units into shops.” 
 
 Some residents claimed that DDA had buckled under political pressure. Rejimon C K, president of Dwarka Forum, said such “regularization” would ruin Delhi. “A person buys a highly subsidized residential plot, then in connivance with police, DDA and the corporation, he converts it into commercial units to earn huge profits. And, now, the government is bending rules to protect this greed,” he alleged.
 
 
