MUMBAI: In the lead-up to the  , armyman  , said that during training, he focused a lot on speedwork. He would do 20-25 reps of 400m at a speed of 62-65 seconds with a minute’s rest between each run.

 
 All those countless runs in training paid off in the last 200 metres of the 42km run on Sunday. Thonakal and his rival  , competing in the Indian men’s category, were running alongside each other throughout the course. But with only 200 metres from the finish line, Gopi broke away and just sprinted. He used up all his reserve energy to win gold by 0.3 seconds (2:16:51).
 
 Rawat had to be content with silver and   of Andhra Pradesh winning bronze. Bugatha clocked 2:23:56.
 
 Though Gopi and Rawat finished three minutes slower than their target of 2 hours 13 minutes, they were content with their performance. “I was actually aiming for the course record and till 30km I was running well. But the last 12kms saw the pacer also running slow, which caused a disruption in my plans. After 32kms we were on our own,” said Gopi.
 
 The duo did admit it was hot towards the end of the race, and that may have affected their performance.
 
 Rawat, the India course record holder, said he suffered from cramps halfway through and perhaps that was the reason he could not push harder in the final stretch. “The last part of the race depends on one’s explosive power and the person who has more of it wins the race. I tried hard but couldn’t manage to match Gopi,” Rawat said.
 
 But he has no qualms about losing to his friend and one-time training partner. After all, this is his first marathon since his disastrous run and subsequent injury at the 2016 Rio Olympics.
 
 “I had a lot going on my mind. I was happy with my time. Now I am aiming for the Delhi Marathon. If I get a good timing there then I can qualify for the Commonwealth and Asian Games,” Rawat said, adding that he also hopes that his performance here will help him get back into the national training camp.
 
 “It all depends on them (national selectors). My job is to run, so I am running,” he said.
 
 In the women’s full marathon (Indians),   won the race, with a disappointing timing of 2:48:32. Jyoti Gawte (2:50:47) and Parul Chowdhary (2:50:47) came second and third respectively.
 
 Despite 2004 New York marathon winner Hendrick Ramaala being their pacesetter, the women couldn’t set a good timing.
 
 “He (Ramaala) tried his best to spur us on, but the heat affected us,” said Sudha.
 
 
