CHANDIGARH: Taking cognizance of a petition filed by a woman information commissioner of   accusing the state government of forcing her to resign from the post, the Punjab and   high court on Tuesday issued notice to the state. 

 The petitioner, Viney Kapoor Mehra, a professor in the department of law at Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU) Amritsar, was appointed as information commissioner in September 2016 by the previous SAD-BJP government for five years. In her petition, she has sought directions to set aside the Punjab government’s communications, issued on May 24, 2017, July 3, 2017, November 7, 2017 and January 3, 2018, through which she was “being forced to resign from the post”. 
 
 She has alleged that the move of the Punjab government is beyond the Right to Information Act, 2005, and the terms and conditions of her appointment in the  .
 
 According to the petitioner, she had taken due permission and extra-ordinary leave, initially for one year and now extended till September 2019, from GNDU, in view of her appointment as information commissioner. She has also given undertaking that she would not claim any salary or other benefits from university during her tenure in the commisoon.
 
 Arguing for her before the HC, senior advocate   submitted that shockingly, secretary of the department of governance reforms had started pressuring the petitioner to resign from one post either of GNDU professor or state information commissioner.
 
 “In response to the objections, petitioner had clarified that she is not holding the ‘office of profit’ and under duress said that if the government wished her to resign, she is ready to resign as Professor, GNDU, Amritsar,” Mittal told the court.
 
 Counsel further stated that on November 7, 2017, the state authorities asked her to resign from the university against which she submitted representations to the Punjab governor, chief minister and governance reforms department. She had requested them not to force her to resign from the post of Professor, GNDU, Amritsar. 
 
 “To the utter shock and surprise of the petitioner the representation of the petitioner has been rejected by the department’s under secretary, vide order on January 3, 2018, without considering any of the submissions and without assigning any reason. This is pre-determined attempt of the state government to remove her from the post of state information commission,” argued the counsel seeking quashing of all government decisions.
 
 
