NEW DELHI: The BJP-TDP relationship might get back to a more even keel with the Centre deciding to provide funds to   despite CM  's allegations that financial demands for reconstruction and development were not being met. The Centre is set to channel financial support by working out an "extra-budgetary" route to provide funds required for projects the state is demanding as part of commitments made when Andhra Pradesh was divided. 

 
 TDP's ties with   have become increasingly strained with the former claiming the state's needs for overcoming the fiscal pangs caused by AP's partition, and loss of Hyderabad as capital, had been ignored in the Budget, leading to bickering with state BJP leaders. The state had initially suggested the externally aided projects (EAP) route but this was found to be somewhat time-consuming as it would require sanction of agencies such as the   and Japan International Cooperation Agency. The state also proposed possible funding through Nabard, but this would have reduced the government's borrowing space as the funds would be added to its balance sheet. 
 
 The Centre is now likely to fund the state's plans through special dispensation for AP that allows a central assistance of 90:10 instead of the usual 60:40. The funds will be tagged for specific projects that the state has argued have been pending despite assurances in the past. TDP's urgency is clearly linked to a desire to deliver results ahead of the 2019 assembly elections that coincide with the LS polls, and further spurred by tardy progress in the construction of a capital in Amaravati and the failure to fully utilise funds to build government and judicial buildings. Several welfare schemes announced since 2014 have added to the financial strain. 
 
 Making a brief intervention in the  , finance minister   said on Tuesday, "I think a solution by which an amount can be given through an alternative mechanism is being worked out. I have asked the expenditure secretary today to immediately call the finance secretary of AP to Delhi and work out procedural formalities..." His remarks came after TDP MPs trooped into the well of the House, raising slogans over the delay in implementation of the AP Reorganisation Act.
 
