MADURAI/CHENNAI: Former chief minister J Jayalalithaa’s aide Sasikala may not have been at the side of her nephew   when he floated a new political outfit in Madurai on Thursday, but her namesake, Rajya Sabha MP   expressed solidarity with TTV by attending the event. The lone member from Parliament, stood along with 21 MLAs, including 18 disqualified legislators, in a show of unity to the Sasikala clan.

 Sasikala Pushpa made headlines for all the wrong reasons in August 2016, when she alleged that her party leader slapped her and forced her to resign. Minutes after her sensational claim, Jayalalithaa sacked her for anti-party activities. She visited Dhinakaran’s residence recently, so her presence at the event was not surprising. Rumours were abuzz that Lok Sabha MP (Coimbatore), P Nagarajan, another TTV supporter, was switching sides. But, he was conspicuous by his absence at the venue, but a section said he was attending Parliament session.
 
 The leaders seemed thrilled at the large gathering at the venue. Kallakurichi MLA A Prabhu, the last to join hands with Dhinakaran, said he was surprised by the turnout. “It only reiterates the popularity of TTV. Even film stars Rajinikanth and   do not pull crowds like TTV despite their star status,” he said. Other than disqualified MLAs, the others present included   E Rathinasabapathy and Vridhachalam MLA V T Kalaiselvan. 
 
 Party sources said Dhinakaran was likely to announce the office-bearers for the new outfit shortly. After being sidelined by the Edappadi K Palaniswami-O Panneerselvam-led camp, the rebel leader ran a faction, AIADMK Amma and contested the first R K Nagar bypoll in April last year necessitated by Jayalalithaa’s death. “Now with Election Commission recognizing the EPS-OPS faction as the real AIADMK and giving them the party name and symbol, TTV has to appoint new office bearers to keep up the morale of the cadres and supporters,” said a senior leader. While Dhinakaran submitted three names to the Delhi court to choose from, he settled for  . 
 
 
