The Deputy Commissioner’s office in Gurgaon’s Mini Secretariat is usually a quiet place during the weekends. This Saturday, however, the walls of the office turned canvas for some students from a city school. Nine students from   in Sector 83 – under the guidance of two art teachers – painted two of the walls at the entrance of the DC office with artwork depicting women empowerment, and unity and diversity. The students – from class VII to X – started their work early in the morning and finished by late afternoon.

  
  Students put finishing touches to the painting on unity in diversity at a wall in the DC office
 
  The first wall painting depicted a woman breaking free from chains, holding a rupee symbol with light emanating from it. “This shows that when a woman is financially independent, she can light the world around herself and make a change,” said Nikhil, a class IX student. The other painting showed people from different parts of the country holding hands in a circle. Shreya Yadav, a class IX student, who painted the second artwork, said, “This shows that we cannot achieve everything alone, but when we join hands, sky is the limit.” The kids had been preparing and rehearsing for this for some time. Nritu Luthra, a class IX student, told us, “Our teachers had given us the concept beforeheand and explained the painting that we would be making. We like it because it is a beautiful way to spread a good message.”
  
   , Additional  , Gurgaon, interacts with the students
 
  Towards the end of their paintings, the students were paid a visit by Additional Deputy Commissioner RK Singh, who congratulated the kids on the paintings and also interacted with them about the concept behind them. Deputy Commissioner   himself could not visit to watch the paintings being made but sent his best wishes to the young artists. “The students have done a commendable job with the  . It is enriching to see the perspective of these students and how simply they have portrayed their feelings. It is important that children speak their mind through art or other means because they are our future. I am glad to be able to be a part of such an initiative,” he said.
 
  
  Gurgaon can never have too much graffiti!
 
