Pune: Engineering firm, Thermax India, is trying to position itself as a global brand. Its ongoing journey from Thermax India to Thermax Global has seen its share of global revenue grow from about 10% in early 2000s to over 30% now. In an interview with TOI, the company’s managing director and CEO,  , speaks about the company’s strategy behind the transition and the current business environment. Edited excerpts:

 What is behind the company’s better performance in the last couple of quarters?
 
 It is because we have started focusing on the global markets. In the initial part of the year, we have taken an unprecedented 49% (though not repeat) of our orders from the international markets. We already have a target to increase our global share of the revenue from 30% now to 40% by 2020. From there on, we will target a 50:50 ratio.
 
 But what about the low margins.
 
 Two factors are responsible for that. First, the market has not turned around. So, when you pick orders in a buyers’ market, he dictates the price. Second is that in the last one year, commodity prices have gone up — starting with steel that has seen a 40% rise. About 80% of my material consumption is steel and steel derivatives. We have done enough and more to ensure that we do our design engineering in a better way to absorb a part of the increase and try and pass a part of it to the market. Margins will be under pressure, but will improve as we go ahead as demand picks up.
 
 What is driving the company’s global strategy?
 
 It was necessary for stability of the organisation. There was the need to diversify and not depend on one geo-polity. Therefore, we thought it will be necessary to diversify to smoothen the spikes in our business.
 
 Why are you not focusing on exporting then?
 
 One is that it helps us create brand equity and the same for India as country is not that great. It also helps us in beating protectionism and a lot of import duties that are placed on other countries.
 
 What has been the impact of GST on your business?
 
 The GST implementation did cause a setback mainly due to the unpreparedness of small and medium scale supply chains as well as inadequacy in the infrastructure support envisaged by the government. In my opinion, India is through with a majority of the glitches presented by the tax reform and is expected to stabilise in the next three quarters. Thermax was no exception to the teething troubles of GST implementation. Our revenues were impacted in the last financial year, however, we expect to recover in 2018-19. However, this regime has been much faster in adjudicating refunds.
 
 Do you think it has become easy to do business now? 
 
 We definitely see a substantial improvement in attitudes as well as in the approval process at the state secretariats and the central government. However, this approach is yet to percolate to the ground level.
 
 Why do you think there is resistance in the industry to extend statutory benefits to contract labourers? 
 
 Majority of the Indian corporates are willing to extend statutory benefits to contract labourers. There are some sections who still exhibit this exploitative trend, which will soon become punishable under the recent stipulations. Even at the level of industry bodies, we advocate the provision of minimum salary and commensurate benefits such as canteen facility, transportation, uniform as well as environment, health and safety protection for the contract labours.
 
 
