Clean-shaven is passé- sporting a   seems to be becoming a fad in namma Coimbatore. At a recently held contest exclusively for bearded men in the city, youngsters were in full attendance with their coiffed facial hair. These youngsters state that it’s time beards are not just relegated to facial hair but looked at as a style statement. CT spoke to some of these bearded men who consider their beards a symbol of self-esteem and why youngsters are opting to grow beards.

 
 
 Arun Prabhu, a freelancer at an advertising firm, tells us, “I used to read many books on Osho as a child and always dreamt off growing a beard like him. If you look at the biggest revolutionaries and great minds in the world, be it Karl Marx or Periyar- they all sported beards. That’s where the inspiration came from. ” Navin M, a gym trainer, on the other hand, wanted to look different from the other gym instructors. “There is a perception among people that gym trainers are all clean-shaven . I wanted to break the stereotype and hence, grew a beard.”
 
 
 
 Though Arun is quite proud of his long beard, he says that he doesn’t have it easy. “It’s not easy to grow beard in our society. If they see a guy growing beard, the first question they pose is if he has had a breakup. The second question is if he is on drugs. This perception has to change. People should understand that a guy can grow beard as a style statement.” Babu Kissme, who is employed at a car accessories shop, on the other hand, says that he has to stay away from his house when guests come over. “I have to answer a barrage of questions from my wife and parents every time I step outside the house. “
 
 
 Musician Jeffri Ambrose, who has been growing a beard for the last two years, says that growing a beard is no easy task. “Anyone can grow beard. Each beard is unique and requires a different kind of maintenance. A beard says a lot about your personality and hence, grooming is essential. Today, there are many products in the market exclusively for beards.” It’s important to clean your skin every day. “Else, you could end up with beardruff (beard dandruff). Your skin might also become flaky. The only hitch I face is I can’t sleep the way I want to as the beard might get out of shape, says Babu. “Arun Prabhu adds that he avoids frothy food. “It’s difficult to drink something like a coffee or milkshake that has lot of froth. I use the tea spoon instead. The beard gets messy and I can’t let that happen.”
 
 
 
 C Srinivasan, hair stylist, says that’s that there are different cuts for beards. “There is a V cut, U cut, classic look cut and more. If you are serious about grooming your beard, you need to first get hold of a good grooming kit. This includes a trimmer, beard oil, shampoo, conditioner, serum, and wax and fragrance oil. It’s essential to visit your stylist regularly. You can get a beard that suits the shape of your face and hair. As far as Coimbatore is concerned, people born after the ’90s, especially the millenials are quite experimental with their beards and are wearing their facial hair as an accessory.” Arun says, “The scruffy, unkempt, smelly beards are all long gone. Men are investing time, money and energy in grooming beards.”
 
 
 Gaffar Sheriff, a marine engineer, says that one can get really creative with their beards. “What began as a dare from a friend became a new-found interest. I first experimented with the hair on my chin. It takes a lot of precision and patience as both sides of the chin need to have the exact same design. Even if you make a small mistake, in terms of length or design, you need to shave off your bead.” 
 
