NAGPUR: Though the news of   
  has shocked the entire country, for a 54 year-old city schoolteacher it hit home hard.   was a Bollywood   in the mid-80s and he recalled his association with   on the sets of ‘Mr India’. 

 “The most vivid memories I have is from when we were filming the song ‘Hawaa Hawaai’ at  . It took 10 days for the song to be complete and we would shoot for minimum nine hours daily,” said Mudliar. He also played a cameo in another Sridevi starrer ‘Roop ki Rani Choron ka Raja’. 
 
 
 
 
 In the ‘Hawaa Hawaai’ song, Mudliar plays the role of one of villain’s men. He can be seen standing near Ajit Vachani (Teja seth),   (Daga seth) and Bob Christo (Mr Wolcott) as Sridevi effortlessly glides by in the dance sequence right in front him. 
 
 “Though I was a junior artiste I managed to strike a rapport with Sridevi because of our Tamil connect and I was very close to her two male cousins who accompanied her to the sets,” said Mudliar. He would run small errands for her directly, or sometimes at the behest of the producer   (whom she married in the 90s). 
 
 “I was pretty thick with   and you can call me his chamcha,” laughed Mudliar, speaking straight from the heart. “Sridevi was staying at Hotel Sea Rock at that time but did not like it too much. Boney would ask me to run over there and inquire from the cousins what issues they were facing. Soon she was shifted to Hotel Centaur and ultimately to a private bungalow, all courtesy Boney who cared for Sridevi a lot,” said Mudliar. 
 
 Though she was a superstar at that time, there were no tantrums. “She ate the same food as other artistes but was conscious about eating healthy. I remember clearly that she avoided samosa and tea. Later when she shifted to a bungalow, she started getting home-cooked food,” said Mudliar. Her professionalism stood out despite her star status. “At sharp 9am, Sridevi would be at the sets ready for the shoot. She neither gossiped on the sets nor threw tantrums, setting a great example for all junior artistes,” said Mudliar.
 
 
  
  
 
 
