CHANDIGARH: In its fifth interim report,   has recommended cancellation of 17 FIRs including those against Punjab leader of opposition Sukhpal Singh Khaira and his supporters and a sedition case registered against Shiromani Akali Dal (Amritsar) president Simranjit Singh Mann registered during the SAD-BJP regime on “political considerations”. The case against Khaira was registered in 2007-2008 and against Mann in 2015.

 In its report submitted to chief minister   on Friday, the commission has also recommended action against the police officials responsible for registering false cases. Out of the total 240 cases decided, Justice Gill, a retired judge of the Punjab and Haryana high court, has recommended action against police officials or complainants in 47 cases.
 
 The commission has also found eight cases falsely registered against Sukhwinder Singh alias Mithu, a member panchayat of Kaunke village in  , after he had filed complaint against relatives of his Canada born-wife Jaswinder Kaur Jassi of murdering her in June 2000. The commission has found 182 police officers guilty of trying to frame Mithu in false cases to pressure him to withdraw his complaint against his deceased wife’s relatives. The commission has recommended action against all those officers. The commission has submitted that the court had acquitted Mithu in all the eight cases but his wife’s mother and maternal uncle, along with some police officials, were convicted of murder.
 
 In Mann’s case, the commission has found neither he gave any speech nor did he utter a word at the   held to protest against the desecration of Guru Granth Sahib in Bargarhi village of Faridkot on November 10, 2015. “The sedition case was falsely slapped against Mann by the Akalis and Bibi Jagir Kaur,” the commission has found.
 
 Till date, the commission has decided 895 of the 4,349 complaints received by it. As per the commission, the district magistrates and district attorneys of Bathinda, Faridkot, Hoshiarpur, Jalandhar, Ludhiana, Moga, Patiala, Sangrur, Mohali and Tarn Taran have submitted their action taken reports on commission’s earlier recommendations. Whereas district magistrates and district attorneys of Ferozepur, Gurdaspur and Kapurthala have been directed to send the compliance report in the cases immediately.
 
 
