Surat: Bharat Diamond Bourse (BDB) has planned a cricket tournament to re-energize the diamond fraternity reeling under the Rs 12,000 crore fraud carried out by millionaires Nirav Modi and Mehul Choksi. 

 For the first time, the BDB will be organizing Bharat Diamond Sports League (BDSL) to promote brotherhood, goodwill and sportsmanship among its members. The cricket matches will be played from April 8 to 15 at Wilson Gymkhana in Mumbai and the matches will feature 12 teams with players from leading diamond companies from Surat and Mumbai. 
 
 BDB vice-president Mehul Shah told TOI, “The main objective of this cricket tournament is to encourage brotherhood and sportsmanship spirit among the diamond industry members comprising owners, employees, staff, workers, all playing and cheering together. We have seen bank defaults by industry bigwigs, which have impacted the image of the industry worldwide. But, through the cricket match we want to re-energize the lost confidence of people in the sector and bring the diamond companies together.” 
 
 The tournament will feature players from companies like Asian Star, Ankit Gems, Bharat Diamond Bourse, Mahendra Brothers, Blue Star, Palanpur Samaj Kendra, Jewelex, Venus Jewel, Shree Ramkrishna Exports, GIA, Rosy Blue and Jasani. Each team will play at least three matches, followed by semi-finals on April 14 and final on April 15. Matches will be played based upon the T20 tournament format as per international standards and with leather ball. 
 
 Asian Star chief operating officer and managing director Vipul Shah said, “I believe this is an excellent platform to bring together the diamond fraternity and to encourage team spirit. It will not only inculcate qualities of discipline and focus, but will also motivate us to put forth collective needs ahead of individual interests.” 
 
 Ankit Gems director Arun Shah said, “This cricket tournament will be a great launching pad for the industry. This will provide us with a level of togetherness, honesty, positive killing instinct, joy of doing right move at the right moment, bonding of employer with employees, teaming up and sharing with similar business houses and above all enticing young blood into the stunning business of diamonds. This tournament will help us to keep the level of game and diamond business high.” 
 
 
