She has been missing in action from the Kannada film industry for a couple of years, busy with her political pursuits, but there’s no stopping the queries about why she isn’t doing films every time she is in Bengaluru. Almost a year after moving to Delhi, where she took charge of the   communications wing for a national political party,   visited us at our office for a chat like old times. Here are excerpts...

 
 
 It’s been 10 months since I left Bengaluru and moved to Delhi. It has been very, very dramatic, challenging and I have loved it so far. I do miss Bengaluru sometimes and I haven’t really formed an opinion of Delhi because I haven’t had the time. I’ve been swamped with work. But with the Karnataka elections around the corner, I keep coming to Bengaluru and it is nice.
 
 
 
 I’m taking taking care of the social media and digital communications. In fact, we have a very strong social media team here in Karnataka and they are doing a fantastic job. So, there’s not much for me to do other than to support and guide them.
 
 
 
 I never shied away from trying something new and experimenting. I am a very curious person and am always with the times. I wanted to learn 
 something new and be with it. I didn’t want to get confined to the past. 
 
 
 
 There’s a big difference there. To be honest, when I was first called to take charge of the social media for the party, I was surprised. While I did use the platform earlier, it wasn’t a field that I was an expert in. There’s a lot more to it than just posting stuff online. But I think that because I like to learn, I took it up as a challenge, as it is a very dynamic field and keeps me on my toes. Initially, I was a little overwhelmed and there was criticism as well, with people wondering how an actress could do this and questioning what I knew about social media. There was some resistance from people who were in the team earlier and I did face some difficulties in trying to overcome that. Along the way, I told them that I was not going anywhere and that we have to work together. We got along and got more women on the team and now everything is good. 
 
 
 
 Initially, I was very sensitive and would get really affected by it. But now I realised that these people are paid to troll you. People get paid to abuse you. I don’t pay much attention to it, and we are also trying to fight it. India does need an anti-troll policy like some other countries in the world have. India needs it because, right now, social media platforms are mostly dominated by men and if you’ve observed, most women have private settings or they have a scenery as their display picture. They are not very vocal online and there is an imbalance. I want women to be more vocal and give their opinions, because they form a very integral part of India. Their idea for the vision also matters. So, as women on social media, we must fight for more space online. 
 
 
 
 Along the way, you also realise that you’re not really in control. You can say what you want to say, but things will happen when they will happen. You’re not the sole change-maker, so to speak, and there are a lot of other factors involved when real change happens. I will say what I have to say, but I won’t expect the change to happen. I’ve learned to be a lot more patient. 
 
 
 
 To be honest, electoral politics is really not my cup of tea. It is not something that I enjoy. People who contest are in it to do a tremendous job. I believe that if you want to make a change and be that catalyst, electoral politics doesn’t have to be the only way to do it. There are other ways of effecting change. I am happy being on social media and I enjoy working in the organisation, as I believe in the ideology of the party. A lot of people want to get into electoral politics, but not many want to do organisational work. I’m happy doing that without a fancy designation or position in the party. 
 
 
 
 I think it is also because I was doing films and there was this privacy that I wanted for most of my life. I was always in the limelight or being questioned or photographed or asked for opinions with the microphone in front of me. I got tired of that and didn’t want to do that any more. I like this. Nobody knows me in Delhi. I can dress the way I want to. I don’t have to wear makeup. I don’t have people asking me for photographs. I can be myself and I am enjoying this phase, because for many years of my life I did all of that. 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Would I come back to movies? No, I don’t think so. I’m over it. I can’t think of wearing makeup again or facing the camera. I find it quite funny now. 
 
 
 Yes, it still is quite a lot when I come back here. But I don’t miss it, maybe because I was never really attached to it even when I was an actress. I took it for what it was. But when 
 people get attached to it and that defines their existence, then when it goes away from you, you feel less important and it makes you feel insecure. It has never happened to me. But I think it is still very sweet that every time I come back, people want to meet me and talk to me. I wonder how they still recognise me, because I have changed so much. 
 
 
 
 It is something that goes beyond the physical aspect. It is beyond who I am as a social media in-charge of the party. What matters to me is what goes beyond what you can see. I think 
 we are all one and the same and we are all manifestations of the universe and are here to live our lives. I see myself as someone who is beyond my role here in life. 
 
 
 
 I’ve realised through Vipassana and all that I’ve read that I’m insignificant in the larger scheme of things. You take yourself seriously and hold on to everything from birth to death. You think you are in control of things and want to latch on to relationships, positions or your career. After my father’s passing, I realised that nothing really lasts. We are all so busy clamouring after life and chasing success. But it’s all gone in a second. There is life beyond that, but we don’t pause, reflect, introspect or think about it. We’re all rats, going after so many different things. 
 
 
 
 Well, you take life as it comes. I don’t have a grand illusion about what life has in store for me. I always take life as it is. I’m in the present, not carrying baggage from the past and not even thinking about what’s going to happen next. I’m all here now, and that is the best way to experience life — to be wherever you are and to be present. Otherwise, you miss out. 
 
 
 
 I don’t have any free time. I am usually working all the time, and when I get some free time, I sleep. I haven’t even had enough time to spend with my dogs in Delhi. I’m hoping for some of that after the Karnataka elections.
 
 
 
 One of the biggest problems that we face today is that we were late entrants on social media. In 2014, we didn’t effectively use social media. So, one of the biggest challenges I have been facing is undoing all the false propaganda online. One of the problems online is that when you’re honest and speaking the truth, it is always simple and short. It is only when you need to lie that you need to weave stories and fabricate stuff, because it is still being made up. Today, the way people consume information, it is not enough to just tell them that it is a lie. They want to know why it is a lie and they demand another story. They find the truth very simple and boring — plain vanilla. Gossip and fake news spreads faster online. Our objective is to talk about how a pluralistic and inclusive society is the way forward. This is basically what we want to achieve when we are talking to people about our propaganda for the elections. 
 
 
 
 I actually do. I think creative writing is the need of the hour (laughs). Seriously though, when Mr (Rahul) Gandhi told me that he wanted me to take charge of the social media for the party, I asked him what we should do and what our blueprint should be like. He just told me to stick to the truth, no matter what. This has defined the foundation of what we do at the social-media office. While creative writing is the need of the hour, truth always stays. 
 
