Surat: The crackdown by Goods and Services Tax (GST) and central excise authorities on angadia firms in Mumbai for tax evasion has sent shock waves in the world’s largest diamond cutting and polishing centre in Surat.  Angadias, the traditional informal couriers, have stopped accepting supply of valuable goods, including diamonds and jewellery articles, from traders and manufacturers not having GST registration following the crackdown on Thursday.  Sources said teams from GST and central excise departments carried out a major crackdown on over 200 angadia firms suspecting huge amount of tax evasion by diamond and jewellery firms in Surat, Mumbai, Ahmedabad and Bhavnagar. Diamond and jewellery parcels to the tune of over Rs 1,000 crore, which were in transit from Surat to Mumbai, were seized by the officials at Mumbai Central railway station, expecting tax evasion to the tune of over Rs 300 crore.  Sources said the angadias, providing courier services, fall in GST tax bracket of 18 per cent. The angadias have to charge 18 per cent for supply of valuables on their services. On the other hand, polished diamonds attract three per cent GST.  The angadias have two systems of supplying valuable diamonds from Surat to Mumbai and beyond. The first system is of insuring the valuable goods with the angadias and the second arrangement is that of delivering the goods by charging on the total value of consignment Rs 70 per Rs 1 lakh.  Gems and Jewellery Export Promotion Council (GJEPC) has made a representation to Union finance minister and GST Council. The GJEPC has urged the government and the GST Council to ensure that the parcels of genuine suppliers are released at the earliest. GJEPC regional chairman Dinesh Navadiya told TOI, “For a few black sheep, the department can’t put the entire trade in shock. We have requested the central government to act proactively and ensure that the parcels of genuine suppliers, who are registered under GST and had paid GST, be released.”  A diamond industry leader Kirti Shah told TOI, “The law should be equal for everyone. If eight out of 10 traders and manufacturers are paying GST, the rest have no right to flout the norms. Most of the parcels seized by the department in Mumbai are without invoice and GST registration.”  Surat Angadia Association president Mahendra Patel said, “We are service providers and are least bothered with the seizure of the goods. The genuine goods will be released. We are deducting 18 per cent GST for our services. From now on, we are not going to deliver goods without GST registration.”