In the latest episode of  , Dr Veer tells   that   has some mental problem and they should start her treatment soon. 
 
 Anika tells Dr Veer Pratap Chauhan that Shivaay will get to the root of the problem. Shivaay is seen doing the same and he joins the dots. 
 
 Veer goes to his room where he has access to the CCTV in Shivaay's room but he says Shivaay cannot get to the truth. 
 
 Shivaay says that a woman did come and may be she was aware of the CCTV cameras. Veer is keeping an eye on Shivaay but he gets a call from someone. 
 
 Shivaay comes to know that someone is keeping an eye on them. He wonders why is someone doing that and trying to prove that Anika is mentally ill.
 
 Veer says Shivaay cannot understand his plan and he cannot do anything. Veer says he will prove Anika mentally ill in front of everyone and Shivaay won't be able to do anything about it.
 
 Veer asks Monali to make her special soup for Anika. Veer again stresses on the fact that Anika has some mental problem, Shivaay says this is not true. Veer insists on starting treatment for her. When Anika refuses to have the soup, Monali tries to feed her but just when she is about to take the first sip, Shweta throws a ball in that direction sendind the bowl toppling over.
 
 Veer gets annoyed and he shouts at Shweta for foiling his plans. He walks away after sharing a meaningful glance with Shivaay. Keep watching this space to know what happens next.
 
 Veer had earlier told Monali that they will mix something in the soup to make Shivaay believe that Anika is mentally unstable. 
 
 Gauri picks up the phone and when she is about to answer the call, she overhears someone planning to kill Shivaay's mother, Pinky. 
 
  Gauri comes running to Om and she tries to tell him about something bad happening in the party. Gauri asks him to cancel the party but Om says this party is important for their business. 
 
 Tia comes over and finds Om standing there. But since she is pretending to be blind she speaks against Gauri. Om asks Tia to not say anything against Gauri.
 
 
