GURUGRAM: The release of ‘Hello!’ has given the   movie industry its latest star — filmmaker Priyadarshan’s daughter Kalyani. But it is Vikas Prajapati, a computer operator in Gurugram, who is paying the price of that stardom. 

 “Hi, can we talk? I’m your fan!” Hundreds of men screeching in excitement have been lavishing Prajapati with praise every day since December 22 when ‘Hello!’ hit theatres. The calls have ended abruptly after Prajapati’s own ‘hello’ — the male voice being the first dampener and his exasperation at being asked about Kalyani the second.
 
 Prajapati’s tryst with fame, one that he was entirely unaware of, happened through a Rs 100 note on which was scribbled the number of the character played by Kalyani in the movie. It took no time for Kalyani’s fans to scribble it down and start dialling. That was the beginning of Prajapati’s miseries.
 
 The private firm employee is now suing the makers of ‘Hello!’ for damages, saying the neverending barrage of calls from Kalyani’s male fans has destroyed his personal life. At work, said Prajapati’s lawyer, his constantly ringing phone has annoyed his bosses. At home, it has led to domestic strife because Prajapati and his wife haven’t been able to have any conversation in these past weeks. He hasn’t been able to devote time to his two children either. Whenever his phone is on, it rings endlessly.
 
 “She (Kalyani) is beautiful but her fans have unfortunately made my life miserable,”   told TOI on Tuesday. “The use of my number in the movie has led to this. It’s destroying my personal and professional life.” Prajapati did not change his number, which he said he had been using for five years and was circulated to all his friends and professional contacts, hoping the calls would stop in a few days. But there has been no let-up.
 
 His lawyer Narender said they served a legal notice to the filmmakers on January 19 and sought compensation of Rs 50 lakh for mental harassment of his client. “We will submit evidence showing how these phone calls have almost destroyed Vikas Prajapati’s life,” Narender said. ‘Hello!’ is a romantic action thriller directed by superstar  , and his son   leads the cast alongside Kalyani, who made her silver screen debut.
 
 The mobile number appears on the currency note when Kalyani’s character writes it down for her friend, the character played by Akhil, to find her. It took them a while to find each other but Kalyani’s fans found Prajapati in a flash.
 
 In reply to Prajapati’s notice, the producers of the film informed they had sought permission from the telecom company for using the mobile number flashed in movie. The telecom company denied giving any such permission to the movie makers.
 
 “I had never heard about the movie or the actress. Initially, I thought some people had a wrong number, but when the calls did not stop, I looked up on Google and discovered what all this was about,” Prajapati said. “He’s unable to work in office due to the constant calls,” said Narender. “His wife has now asked him to change the number as soon as possible.”
 
 
