The   in association with   (AICA) recently organised a seven-day long 13th International Theatre Festival and 28th All India multi-lingual drama, dance and music competition. The event saw several international and national artists from  , Bangladesh, Iran, Delhi, Mumbai and Jharkhand showcase different acts. The chief guest of the event was   Mayor   and ex-MP Praveen Singh Aron and National President of   JC Paliwal and Director of AICA Sayed Siraj. The artists of Haray Ladies Ethnic Music Band from Iran gave a rocking musical performance. 

  
  Bonding in Bareilly!
 
  
  Ghazaleh, an Iranian musician performing at the fest 
 
 Other events included kavi sammelan, multi-lingual classical and folk dance, drama and musical performances, among other activities. On the last day of the fest, Rang Yatra, a theater procession was carried out across the city, where participants exhibited their culture and tradition on Bareilly roads. The groups from Sri Lanka, Bangladesh and Iran were a part of this procession, holding their respective national flags and spreading messages on cleanliness and saving the girl child.
 
  
  Theatre actors   and Nadu
 
  
  Iranian beats: Nooshin 
 
  Rajini Gupta, an audience member, said, "It was for the first time we got to see International theater fest in our city. Their plays were quite musical, peppy and full of drama and emotions. I liked the play, ' ', staged by a group from Bangladesh. It depicted the problems related to education and safety as well as globalisation, all in a musical way."
 
  
  Rang Yatra, a theatre procession was carried out on Bareilly streets on the last day of the fest
 
   , theatre director and performer from Sri Lanka, said, "We came to Bareilly for the first time, and it was an enriching experience. We were overwhelmed with people's hospitality and love. They watched our plays keenly and were inquisitive about several issues addressed in our acts. We are taking back some lovely memories of this place and would love to come again."
 
  
  Students of a Delhi-based group gave a colourful performance
 
  Pratima Gupta, another audience member, said, "I joined the theatre procession; it was more like a roadshow. It was a colourful display of the culture and traditions of different regions."
 
  
  Om Sai dance group from Chhindwara, Madhya Pradesh performing at the fest
 
 
 
