MUMBAI: In a bid to grow its deposits,   has hiked interest rates on term deposits by up to 100 basis points (1 percentage point). Following the increase, the bank is offering a flat return of 7per cent on all maturities of over one year, while senior citizens can earn up to 7.5 per cent and bulk depositors (Rs 1 crore and above) get even more.

 
 With a deposit base of 7.9 lakh crore, HDFC Bank has a marketshare of 7 per cent of the country’s bank deposits. SBI had increased   by up to 50bps in February. Other banks are also expected to hike their deposit rates. This is because deposit growth is not keeping pace with the expansion rate in credit. 
 
 According to data released by the Reserve Bank of India ( ), bank deposits, as on March 30, 2018, stood at Rs 115 lakh crore — an increase of 6.7 per cent as against a growth rate of 15.3 per cent in the previous fiscal. Against this, bank advances grew 10.3 per cent to Rs 87 lakh crore, higher than 8.2 per cent in the previous fiscal.
  
  
 An increase in deposit rates results in higher lending rates as well, since the marginal cost lending rate ( ) is now linked to the change in cost of funds. However, since the new rates will apply only on renewals, the transmission will be gradual.
 
 One reason for the slowdown in bank deposits is the continued remonetisation as customers carry on withdrawing cash from banks more than a year after demonetisation. The increase in currency in circulation has resulted in a corresponding decline in bank deposits. As a result, surplus liquidity in the banking system is also vanishing. The pressure on interest rates is coming not just from shrinking liquidity but from the likelihood that the RBI will increase rates to control inflation. 
 
 
 
  chief economist Prithviraj Srinivas said the government has so far been very restrained in increasing minimum support prices for foodgrain. As the country closes in on important elections, there is a risk that this key discipline would be compromised to address poor farm sector realisation. “Some expansion in public spending ahead of elections is not unusual, but the degree matters this time, especially since another benevolent factor — ie, low oil prices, which supported them through early part of their tenure — has turned.”
 
 According to a report by Deutsche Bank economist Kaushik Das, the regulator is likely to tighten policy rates sooner than expected. “The growth-inflation mix, coupled with rising risks to fiscal and a widening of the current account deficit beyond 2 per cent of  , would in our view give enough justification to the RBI for delivering a 25bps rate hike in June, particularly in the backdrop of higher crude oil prices and 10-year US treasury looking to break the psychological 3 per cent mark,” said Das.
 
 Adding to inflationary pressure is the weakening rupee, which has slid over 4 per cent this year, pushing up prices of all imported items.
 
 
