PATNA: Pitching for reforms in marriage laws of Muslim community in the country, deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi (SuMo) on Sunday appealed to PM   to also bring new bills and make law for the abolition of polygamy and ‘nikah halala’ in the Muslim society for greater gender parity.

 “I appeal to PM Modi to bring bills that become law to finally abolish the practice of polygamy and ‘nikah halala’ from the Muslim society,” SuMo said, adding the “progressive sections among the Muslims should come forward in support of the reforms in their marriage laws to end polygamy and ‘nikah halala’.” 
 
 SuMo said country’s first PM   had called the changes he had brought in the Hindu marriage code through the Hindu Marriage Act as his greatest achievement. Nehru had also said the time was not ripe then for reforming the marriage laws of Muslims, SuMo said, adding: “The time is ripe for bringing out these changes.”
 
 Speaking at a function organized by the party to felicitate health minister and former state BJP president Mangal Pandey for successfully organizing the party campaign in the   state assembly elections, SuMo came hard on the   on Shah Bano case, saying: “My personal view is that late PM Gandhi committed a sin by making constitutional amendment to overturn the Supreme Court order for alimony to Muslim women. This he did under the influence of the Muslim clerics.” 
 
 Among others who addressed the function were party’s state president Nityanand Rai, Rajya Sabha member and former Union minister Dr C P Thakur, road construction department minister Nand Kishore Yadav, cooperative department minister Rana  , former minister Sukhda Pandey and the party’s Digha (Patna) MLA   Chaurasia. For his part, Pandey recalled his experiences from the Himachal Pradesh elections.
 
 Referring to the Congress’s stand on the triple ‘talaq’ bill in the Rajya, SuMo said, “The Congress seemed to somehow support the bill in the  , but it completely changed its tack in the Rajya Sabha. The Congress is ambiguous on the matter and its stand is unclear.”
 
 He said the Congress, its president Rahul Gandhi and former president Sonia Gandhi have an opportunity to wash clean the sin committed by former PM Rajiv Gandhi. The party should support the triple ‘talaq’ Bill.”
 
 He said the Centre has increased the quota for the haj pilgrims from India from 1.36 lakh in 2014 to 1.70 lakh, and has also facilitated the journey for Muslim women to Mecca alone.
 
 SuMo said the party’s victory in Himachal Pradesh was expected, but the elections to the Gujarat assembly were “tougher,” as the state did not have a leader of the stature of PM Narendra Modi and there had occurred social unrest on the issue of reservation for Patidars, besides the mobilization of dalits by Jignesh Mewani, apart from confusions caused in the minds of people by the Congress on the issue of GST and note ban.
 
 
