GURUGRAM: Nearly 700   are miffed with builder   for not handing them possession of their flats at   Rangoli, Dharuhera, even two years after the first deadline. More than two dozen of them converged at the office of Avalon Group in Sector 38 on Saturday and protested against the builder for “giving false assurances and dragging its feet over” giving possession.

 Homebuyers alleged that on Saturday, they were invited via an email by the builder for handing over of possession of flats. “But even today, they did not hand over the flats,” said one homebuyer. “This township has 10 towers. The builder has divided the project into Phase 1 and Phase 2 with five towers in each. Today, they were supposed to hand over possession for flats of Phase 1. However, none of their senior officials are present here. They deliberately skip these meetings.”
 
 According to homebuyers, Avalon Group has not got occupation certificate from the senior town planner (STP) as the work on the township is incomplete – a charge that the builder strongly denied in its communique to TOI, marshalling all relevant documents to support its contention. 
 
 Buyers said that they had purchased the flats in 2011 and made nearly 95% payment. “I booked my flat in 2011,” said Pradeep Sharma, a resident of  . “The deadline for possession expired on February 2016 but we have not yet been given possession of the flats.”
 
 Sharma said that residents had been meeting regularly with the builder but the builder only gave them false assurances. According to homebuyers, the builder applied for completion certificate with the district town planner in January 2017. “They were supposed to get the certificate within 60 to 90 days,” Manoj Saini, another homebuyer, said. “But it was not given which, simply means, they did not get requisite NOCs.” Another homebuyer said that last year, when the builder applied for occupation certificate, it was denied the same as it had not built flats for Economically Weaker Sections.
 
 Buyers added that the Avalon officials had been putting the blame on the government, alleging that it wasn’t furnishing relevant certificates before possession could be given. TOI spoke to Ajay Aggarwal, managing director, Avalon Group, who rejected all the allegations of homebuyers. “We have completed everything on our end. The documents are pending approval from the government.”
 
 The officials of district town and country planning (DTCP) also said that the OC was in consideration in higher offices.
 
 
