CHENNAI: The Tamil Nadu government on Saturday sought to clarify that it had put forth its arguments strongly before the water resources ministry that "framing a scheme" as ordered by the Supreme Court to settle the inter-state Cauvery row was nothing but constitution of the Cauvery Management Board (CMB) and   Regulation Committee as prescribed by the Cauvery tribunal. 

 The reaction came amid concerns raised by the opposition about the fate of the CMB as Union water resources secretary U P Singh had said on Friday that the SC, in its February 16 order, had not set a six-week deadline to set up the CMB.
 
 The state government issued an official statement soon after chief minister   held a meeting with chief secretary   and other officials in the secretariat. The officials apprised the CM of the deliberations that took place in New Delhi on Friday. The statement said the TN team had clarified to the Centre and other state representatives that as per the court order, "scheme" meant nothing but formation of the board and regulatory committee. Also, the Centre was bound by the tribunal's award, the statement added.
 
 The statement said the "scheme" as referred to by the Supreme Court was clearly explained in Section 6 (A)(2) of the Inter-State Water Disputes Act. As per the Act, the Centre must frame a scheme for establishment of an authority for the implementation of the tribunal award. It also talks about the composition, jurisdiction, powers, and functions of the authority. "The court also states that apart from the modifications effected (reducing the TN's share of water), there should not be interference with the determination and findings recorded by the tribunal. It said that monitoring the working of the monthly schedule (of water release) should be done with the help of states concerned and Central Water Commission," the government said in the statement.
 
 Palaniswami had requested Prime Minister  , during his Chennai visit recently, to set up the mechanism within the deadline set by the court.
 
  He also gave a representation to the Union water resources minister Nitin Gadkari to abide by the court's deadline. 
 
 The state government also sought an appointment with Modi for an all-party delegation from Tamil Nadu to meet him. The appointment never came through.
 
 Meanwhile, deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam said in Trichy on Saturday that the state government was firm on its stand that the Cauvery Management Board should be set up within the six-week deadline fixed by the apex court.
 
 
