NEW DELHI:  , chief minister Arvind   who has been   for alleged   in allotment of  , told a   on Friday that the   against him was  . He claimed that Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) had arrested him only to tarnish Kejriwal’s image and harass his close relatives. 

 Filing a bail plea before additional sessions judge Sanjay Khanagwal, Vinay’s lawyer, Mohd Irshad, said the allegation of Kejriwal influencing officials of the public works department (PWD) to award the accused a tender was false and frivolous as the bid opened on January 19, 2015 when Delhi was under the President’s rule. The Kejriwal government came to power on February 14, he added. 
 
 Vinay had nothing to do with the drain work as his late father, Surender Bansal, was the proprietor and he was just a partner without any instrumental role in the firm’s workings, the lawyer argued. ACB had registered FIRs against Surender and Renu Constructions, owned by him. 
 
 The plea also pointed out that the contract was given to M/s Renu Constructions (proprietorship firm) and no work was issued to M/s Renu Constructions (partnership firm) in which Vinay held 50% shares as a director.
 
 The late Surender’s firm had received the tender and as far as the allegation of non-completion of work goes, it was finished on November 23, 2015, the plea added. “A completion certificate was issued. The fact that the work has been duly executed can also be established by visiting the site itself. Officials of IIT Roorkee had inspected the site from time to time.”
 
 AAP Delhi’s chief spokesperson, Saurabh Bharadwaj, claimed in a press conference that Vinay, the son of Kejriwal’s late brother-in-law, was arrested on the basis of false charges. “The tender was given to his father a month before Kejriwal became CM in 2015,” he said while sharing documents from IIT Roorkee and SriRam Labs in which the work was found to be properly completed. 
 
 Vinay, his lawyer argued, did not receive any payment from PWD in his individual account or in the partnership firm. Irshad also alleged that Surender had died as a result of sustained interrogation by the investigating agency and after facing severe humiliation and trauma.
 
 The court on Friday issued a production warrant for Vinay’s presence after the Tihar authorities failed to produce him. 
 
 
