BHOPAL:   leaders started the second phase of ‘Nyay Yatra’ from Kamadgiri temple near  , where Lord Rama is said to have spent 12 of the 14 years of his exile. Before setting off, Congress leaders Arun Yadav and Ajay Singh offered prayers at Kamadgiri temple and appealed to people to “end Congress’ 14 years of exile.”

 “In Madhya Pradesh, farmers are humiliated, not respected. When they protest for their rights, chief minister   orders police to fire on them so that they can be suppressed,” said PCC chief Arun Yadav, alleging that under BJP rule “there is no justice for women, labourers and youth who are anguished and distressed”. 
 
 “It is now the time for Congress exile to end. A government should be formed that looks after people’s interests and ensures justice for all,” Yadav said at the public meeting. He joined LoP Ajay Singh in circumambulating Kamadgiri temple — doing so is said to be fulfil one’s desires and aspirations.
 
 Singh said that even the state assembly was adjourned sine-die to avoid discussion of minister Rampal Singh’s daughter-in-law Priety Raghuvanshi’s suicide. “Issues that are important to people of the state could not be discussed as assembly was adjourned. Everyone feels cheated. Farmers are not getting fair price for their produce even when the crop is acquired by the government. There is no power supply but thousands of rupees are being charged as dues,” Singh said.
 
 The victory in Chitrakoot bypolls last year is the beginning of the end of Congress’ exile, the LoP said. “The Shivraj Singh Chouhan government is so arrogant that no appeal gets heard and all doors of dialogue are closed. The BJP government has gone blind, deaf and dumb to people’s problems,” Singh said.
 
 ‘Nyay Yatra’ will continue till the BJP government is voted out, the two leaders said. “Congress party’s Nyay Yatra is for all those sections and communities who are fighting for their rights,” the LOP said. Both Arun Yadav and Ajay Singh told the gathering that if Congress comes to power in the November assembly elections then all corruption charges against BJP will be probed. “And if Shivraj Singh Chouhan is proved guilty, he will go to jail,” they said.
 
 The second phase of ‘Nyay Yatra’, which will travel through all the assembly seats in Satna, Shahdol and Umaria districts, will conclude on Friday. On Monday, the yatra passed through Raigaon, Birsinghpur, Gairaiya and reached   in the evening, where the two leaders addressed another public meeting. In the first phase-on April 5 and 6-the yatra started from Udaipura in Raisen and reached Bhopal. Congress had raised the issue of Preity’s suicide.
 
 
