HYDERABAD: In a match that saw the respective sixth over yield plenty -   conceded 20 for the Sunrisers and Avesh Khan returned the compliment with 27 for Delhi Daredevils - the hosts were well served by their batsmen fully aware of the course they needed to take in order to log 14 points from seven wins out of nine games.

 
 
 
 
 Alex Hales (45; 31b, 4x3, 6x3) made capital of Khan's second over after   (33; 30b, 4x2, 6x1) opened the floodgates with a six off a free hit. And, in realizing 76 for the first wicket, the duo ensured it was the Sunrisers' best opening partnership in five matches here in this edition of  .
 
 It took a beauty from  , a delivery that spun across the face of the bat to peg back the off stump, to get rid of Hales and a frustrated Dhawan also perished giving the leg-spinner the charge. But Mishra's brilliant two for 19 from four overs was just not enough on Saturday, when leggies revelled at the Rajiv Gandhi International Stadium.
 
 
 
 
 The Sunrisers whittled down the chase to 62 runs from the last 36 deliveries, 28 from 12 and 14 from the last over. But the solid foundation, skipper  's calm influence and  's pyrotechnics ensured the hosts reached 164 for three to complete a seven-wicket win. The first 10 and the last 10 overs yielded 82 each for SRH, a contrast to Delhi's 163 for five that saw 95 in the first 10 and 68 in the second half.
 
 Prithvi Shaw put Delhi on a sound footing after  , promoted to open the innings, was run out by   while backing up too far at the non-striker's end.
 
 Kaul's expensive over swelled the powerplay total to 60 for one after   won the toss and packed the side with five players who at one time in their career plied their wares for the Sunrisers - Naman Ojha, Vijay Shankar, Daniel Christian, Amit Mishra and  .
 
 None of them made an impression with the bat, but Shaw's class stood out in his 36-ball 65 (4x6, 6x3). The diminutive opener made his intent clear with positive strokeplay that was a delight to watch on a day when the difference between him and the rest was stark.
 
 Shaw so dominated the 86-run stand for the second wicket with Iyer that he contributed 41 runs to the first fifty of that partnership and would have cost the Sunrisers a few more had he not chanced his arm and miscued a shot off Rashid Khan, who struck immediately after changing ends.
 
 Delhi suffered for want of momentum after Shaw's departure.
 
  
  
 
 
 
