JAIPUR: The wait seems to be getting longer for residents living in unregularised colonies to procure lease deeds. There is no ray of hope that   ( ) will organise camps to regularise these colonies in near future. 

 After   puts a ban on regularisation process without preparing a zonal plan, the JDA has decided to prepare 16 zonal plans of area falling in its jurisdiction for improved development.
 
 The JDA is not only preparing these zonal plans at a snail's pace but also procedure to get the plans approved, which were recently prepared has not started. "Out of 16, the JDA has prepared only eight zonal plans. The plans that are prepared will be approved in authority meeting, chaired by the urban development and housing (UDH) minister. However, the meeting is not scheduled for next one month. Once the approval is provided, the JDA will invite objection and suggestions from the public. The process is time consuming, but work is moving at a slow pace," said a JDA official. Sources said, the JDA has written a letter to UDH minister to call a meeting. But, this will only be possible after the bypoll as minister is   election in-charge for Madalgargh. Moreover, the budget session will start from February 5.
 
 Officials further said that JDA has also decided to postpone the camps proposed to organise for regularising the colonies developed on agriculture land by private developers. "The state government on October 26 released orders and directed the development authorities to prepare the zonal plans. Regularisation process will not be carried out till the time zonal plans are prepared," said an official.
 
 These zonal plans which are been prepared are in sync with the master plan 2025, developed on the basis of 13 points.
 
 An official said, "Apart from sector roads, these zonal plans will highlight the land-usage, facility areas (police stations, parks, sewerage treatment plants (STPs) etc."
 
 Explaining about zonal plans, an official said, "The master plan is drafted for carrying out development planning of the entire city . However, zonal plans are drawn for planning of smaller areas. The facility areas will be highlighted in zonal plans and after reading them, residents can identify facility areas that will be earmarked to develop parks, water tanks etc."
 
 
