Coimbatore: Coastal shipping of cotton from Gujarat to Tamil Nadu (TN) on a largescale basis would soon be a reality with the union government relaxing the cabotage rule for cotton transport. The union ministry of shipping has relaxed the cabotage rule for transportation of cotton along with several other products by issuing a ‘General Order’. The move would help textile mills to cut transportation costs, industry officials said. Transporting cotton through ships would cost mills Rs 550-650 per bale (a bale is 170 kgs). In contrast, road transportation charges work out to Rs 750-850 per bale. Cotton is now being almost entirely transported through road from Gujarat, the largest producer of the crop in the country, to TN. Cabotage is the transport of goods between two places in the same country by a transport operator from another country. Foreign flag vessels would be in a position to offer a competitive rate as large number of empty foreign containers are being transported between the ports in Gujarat and Tamil Nadu, said P Nataraj, chairman, Southern India Mills’ Association (SIMA). “This initiative would greatly benefit cotton farmers in Gujarat and the spinning mills in Tamil Nadu,” he said. TN produces only 5-6 lakh bales of cotton per year against its annual requirement of nearly 130 lakh bales. Textile mills in the state procure nearly 60 lakh bales of cotton from Gujarat, the largest producer of the crop in the country. The textile industry here has been demanding relaxation of cabotage rule for transporting cotton from ports in Gujarat to ports in Tamil Nadu and use foreign flag vessels to carry the cotton. Permitting foreign flag vessels to transport cotton and textile goods in EXIM containers from Gujarat ports to either Tuticorin or Cochin port would be beneficial to mills, industry officials said. During peak cotton season the lorry freight per bale between Gujarat ginning factories and spinning mills in TN, which account for 47% of the spinning capacity in the country goes up to Rs 1000 per bale. Incidentally, the transportation cost for imported cotton from countries in West Africa to the spinning mills in Tamil Nadu is only Rs 400 per bale. Though the union shipping ministry provided incentives such as exempting fuel used by Indian flag vessels from central excise and offered 40% discount in port handling charges, the costs remained high as fuel attracted high sales tax and Indian flag vessels were levied seafarer tax. “In addition, only one or two players extended the service during the last three years charging high rate,” SIMA said. “The cost difference worked out to 10% to 15% lower than lorry transport. While the lorry transport mode takes 3-4 days, the sea route takes around 15 days. Therefore, only larger mills could utilise this facility,” it said.