JAIPUR:   with   are always at a higher risk of giving birth to an infant with birth defects in comparison to normal women. Aiming to minimise the chance of foetal malformation, the health department is alert on it and has categorised such pregnancies with epilepsy as high risk.

 “Whenever a case of pregnancy with epilepsy is reported in the hospital, we immediately put her in high risk category. It helps in providing her treatment for preventing birth defects in infants. Such pregnant women need proper care and treatment for birth of healthy baby,” said Dr  , professor gynaecology, Sawai Man Singh (SMS)  .
 
  
 Dr Meena said that they provide folic acid tablets to pregnant women. “We prescribe folic acid tablets for initial three months in normal pregnancies but for  , we give folic acid tablets for entire pregnancy period to prevent any sort of complications,” said Dr Meena. The state government is providing free-of-cost folic acid tablets to pregnant women under free medicine scheme. 
 
 According to the neurology experts, epilepsy is most frequently encountered neurological condition in women after migraine. A city-based neurologist, former professor neurology,   Dr RK Sureka conducted a study on pregnant women with epilepsy. “In our study we compared the obstetrical and neonatal outcomes of women with epilepsy with similar matched control subjects. It showed that women with epilepsy have increased risk of fetomaternal complications. The most important observation in our study was the increased frequency of congenital malformations in the offspring of women with epilepsy. In our study we have found cases of infants born with deformity to women with epilepsy,” said Dr Sureka. 
 
 He said it is a myth that epileptic women cannot bear children or are infertile. The percentage of infertility is not very different from normal women. Similarly all women should continue to take the antiepileptic medicines during pregnancy and should not fear that taking medicine would produce epilepsy in their children.
 
 The study found that the pregnant women with epilepsy were given five mg of simple vitamin tonic – Folic Acid which was started from the initial stage of pregnancy, prevented fetal malformations as compared to those women who did not take folic acid.
 
 Dr Sureka expressed the need for pregnancy registry which looks after the health of pregnant epileptic women throughout India. Very few registries are functioning in the country.
 
 
