'
 ' established itself as a bona fide winner at the Indian box-office right off the bat when it grossed the highest opening day collection on Friday. With a staggering figure of Rs 31.33 crore, ‘Avengers: Infinity War’ left behind the likes of ‘Padmaavat’, ‘ Baaghi 2’ and ‘Sonu Ke Titu Ki Sweety’, this year’s 
 . 

 
 
 So far, the third instalment of the superhero film franchise has registered the eighth highest grossing opening day collection of all time; following in the likes of ‘Baahubali 2: The Conclusion’, ‘Prem Ratan Dhan Payo’, ‘Sultan’, ‘Happy New Year’ and ‘Tiger Zinda Hai’. Continuing the amazing trend, ‘Avengers’ collected Rs 30.25 crore on Saturday, taking its total tally to Rs 61.58 crore in just two days, reported BoxOfficeIndia.com
 
 The report added that the film has already beaten recent Marvel films ‘Thor: Ragnarok’ and ‘Black Panther’ as far as the box-office collection in India is concerned. ‘Avengers: Infinity War’ displayed a small drop from its Friday’s collections, but the numbers could rise on Sunday (holiday), and followed by Monday and Tuesday, which are also non-working holidays in some parts of India. 
 
 
 
 ‘Avengers: Infinity Wars’ is already on its way to become the second highest grossing 
  in India, after 2016 animated film ‘The Jungle Book’. ‘The Jungle Book’ grossed around Rs 180 crore which is the highest non-holiday grosser after ‘Baahubali 2 - The Conclusion’ and ‘Avengers: Infinity War’ will be looking to cross the former and the way it has performed over the first two days, it might beat the collection of ‘The Jungle Book’.
 
 The film sees the Avengers fight along with the Guardians of the Galaxy and Doctor Strange (Benedict Cumberbatch) to fight one common enemy - Thanos (voiced by Josh Brolin). The Avengers comprises of Iron Man (Robert Downey Jr), Thor ( ), Hulk ( ), Captain America (Chris Evans), Black Widow ( ), War Machine ( ), Spider-Man (Tom Holland), Black Panther (Chadwick Boseman), Vision (Paul Bettany), Scarlet Witch (Elizabeth Olsen), Falcon (Anthony Mackie) and Bucky Barnes (Sebastian Stan).
 
 Meanwhile, Star-Lord (Chris Pratt), Gamora ( ), Drax (Dave Bautista), Rocket (voiced by Bradley Cooper), Groot (voiced by Vin Diesel), Nebula (Karen Gillan) and Mantis (Pom Klementieff) make up the Guardians of the Galaxy.
 
