BHOPAL: A 27-year-old   in  ,  , who believed in dreams and rebirth, killed himself by jumping into the  . He did so apparently after a premonition that by doing so he would save his ‘gay’ partner from death. His body was found floating in the lake on Sunday morning.

 In a note found from his room and addressed to the scientist community, Neelotpol, a strong believer in Goddess Kali, wrote: “ To understand dark matter, understand ‘Shiva’. If you want to understand Black-Hole understand Kali and if you want to understand Big Bang understand the language of Om.”
 
 How well he planned his suicide could be judged by the fact that he tied a tag on his wrist mentioning his name, local address and mobile number. “It seems he wanted his body to be identified and sent to family members as soon as possible,” said sub-inspector Rajkumar Gupta, posted at Talaiya police station. 
 
 Investigation officer ASI KC Sahu said that before leaving home, Neelotpol posted on Facebook around 10.04 pm and also shared a link of a video ‘Final Note’. The 5-minute video featured all his notes on the walls of his room. As the video was seen by his friends and family members, they panicked and tried to call him, but to no avail. After learning that Neelotpol was missing, his mother wrote on his Facebook wall, pleading him to return home as his father was very ill and bed-ridden.
 
 In the video he posted, “On Diwali 2016, ie on October 30 2016, I had a very beautiful dream! Goddess Kali appeared. What she said was eternal bliss. I had to keep that a secret till today because the day I speak up to the whole world it will be my final day! Watch it till the end to know why is that so? What is the dream about? Why final note? You will get all yours answers! Please pray for us, thank you!”
 
 Describing his meeting with Goddess Kali, he posted that She told him that he would meet his soulmate -- his true love -- within a year.
 
 “When he will enter my life, I will be at eternal bliss. He wouldn’t have sex with me but we would do everything possible to keep each other at peace. But there will be a massive situation. The day I will propose to him, I will die and the day he will realise I'm the one, he will die. To nullify this, I requested Goddess Kali to never let that happen, whosoever he is. I don't want him to be hurt. I'll take everything on my head. I can never let that happen to him. Is there any solution to it? I want to marry him. Kali Maa said that you both will meet in this life but in your next life you will definitely marry him. And I thank goddess for that.”
 
 Nobody in his family knew about his sexual orientation. Neelotpol belongs to an affluent family and his father Nirmalendu Sarkar is an assistant general manager posted in Bharat Heavy Electric Limited (BHEL), Haridwar, while mother is a doctor. His sister is pursuing graduation from Amity University.
 
 Neelotpol resided here in a rented accommodation in Saket Nagar and was a research scholar with the CSIR-AMPRI Bhopal. A missing person case was filed by his landlord   on Saturday after he went missing for two days.
 
 In his note, he wrote that after the dream, he went to Kamakhya Devi temple in Guwahati, Assam, to make a wish to marry his soul mate 'as she is the goddess of all desires'. He is learnt to have attempted suicide in Guwahati after visiting the temple but was saved, after which he was taken to a psychiatrist by family members who prescribed him some medicines but he never took the medicines.
 
 In another note, Neelotpol wrote in Hindi that his last wish is that only his soul mate should set fire to his pyre. 
 
 
 
 
 Neelotpol’s friend Ajay Mandal said he was a good student, although he was an introvert. He was very religious and mostly wore black clothes. “It was shocking for us when we came to know he has committed suicide,” he added.
 
 His landlord Sahu said, “Neelotpol moved into our house in September. He was a religious man and strong believer in Goddess Kali. He used to have dinner at our house. Although he used to pay rent on time but this time he delayed, citing some family problems. His uncle Amelendu paid the rent when he came looking for him.”
 
 
