NEW DELHI: External affairs minister Sushma   on Monday ruled out the possibility of starting the comprehensive bilateral dialogue process with Pakistan in the current circumstances even as she acknowledged that the NSAs were talking and Track II Neemrana Dialogue was recently held between the two countries. Speaking at her annual press conference, Swaraj said India is not against talks with  . 

 
 “We have never said that we don’t want to have dialogue with Pakistan but then there’s a caveat. Comprehensive dialogue and terror can’t go together,” said Swaraj. The minister said India’s position had nothing to do with the upcoming elections in Pakistan. “Dialogue doesn’t make sense when there are bodies piling up at LoC and when infiltration continues unabated. As for the NSA dialogue, we agreed to it because we believe we have talks ‘on’ terror with Pakistan,” added Swaraj. 
 
 Swaraj also attacked Pakistan for the recent promulgation of   order which, she said, sought to turn the region into another Pakistan province. India had registered a strong protest with Pakistan on Sunday but Islamabad responded by accusing India of making “legally untenable” statements and by claiming that the entire state of J&K was disputed. 
 
 “Pakistan which doesn’t believe in rule of law is trying to teach us history but when I saw their reaction, I felt like saying ‘look, who’s talking’,” said Swaraj. The minister was angered by a question which accused the government of “flip-flops” in its position on Pakistan and accused the correspondent who asked the question of acting like a “spokesperson of the   party”. 
 
 “The fact is that our Pakistan policy has led to its isolation among the international community and now it is under a lot more pressure (on the issue of terrorism),” said Swaraj. A visibly upset   also attacked Congress on Monday for the suggestion that she had been marginalised by the PMO and that her role was confined to handling Twitter for the external affairs ministry. 
 
 “How is it that I’m able to answer all your queries if I know nothing about foreign policy,” she said in what appeared like an emotional outburst. Swaraj said MEA during Congress rule was an elitist ministry and had nothing to do with the common people. “My Twitter is doing the job of connecting MEA with commoners,” she said.
 
