NOIDA: Four residents and a few guards of   in Noida’s Sector 74 have been booked for allegedly beating a   to death last week, based on a complaint by an animal activist.

 Pragati Khanna, a member of the Maneka Gandhi-headed  , had lodged the police complaint after a few residents of the housing society informed her of the dog being allegedly beaten up on the night of March 29. Khanna said though she did not see the dog being attacked, her complaint was based on a WhasApp conversation where the four residents had vowed to rid the society of strays. The outburst on the WhatsApp group came after a child in Supertech   was bitten by a stray dog on March 28.
 
 Khanna said the dog that was beaten up had been sterilised recently and posed no threat to any human being. “It is not clear if the dog that was killed had attacked the child. Some dog lovers in the housing society informed us through an email about the stray being attacked. Maneka Gandhi’s office forwarded us the email in Noida and we rushed to the apartment. We found the dog had been badly beaten up and was unable to walk. She collapsed frequently,” Khanna said.
 
 While three of the residents named in the complaint declined to speak to the media, one of them said he had been framed in the case.
 
 The injured dog was first taken to a veterinary hospital in Noida and then referred to Delhi when her condition did not improve. “A medical examination revealed she had suffered multiple fractures on the spine. She succumbed to the injuries during treatment on March 30,” Khanna said. A postmortem report mentioned the cause of death as “internal bleeding”.
 
 Khanna lodged a complaint at Sector 49 police station on Saturday, pointing out how some of the Capetown residents had written on a WhatsApp group about “killing” dogs in the compound after the child had been bitten. “When a lion becomes a man-eater, he is killed, this is merely a stray dog. Enough is enough,” one person had written. Another responded that “the issue” must be fixed.
 
 The animal activist also claimed to have seen a clip in which one of the residents can been seen pointing to a “mad” dog and directing a guard to chase it away from the compound. Based on the complaint, an   was registered against the four residents and some guards under provisions of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act.
 
 One of the four residents accused of killing the dog wondered why his name had been dragged into the case. “I am a dog lover and have adopted one for the past four years. I support adoption of stray dogs, why should I be involved in this?” he asked.
 
 He said the Capetown residents had appealed to the   for sterilising the dogs in the compound after one of them bit a child. “The society residents had called a meeting and submitted an application to the Noida Authority for sterilising stray dogs. I had just signed the application,” he said.
 
 Tapan Das, a Supertech employee responsible for maintenance at Capetown, said the guards had denied any knowledge about the dog being beaten up.
 
 Pankaj Pant, the SHO of Sector 49 police station, said a case had been registered under provisions of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act, 1960, and Sections 429 (mischief by killing/maiming cattle) and 12B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC against those named. “It is not clear how the incident took place. We are investigating the case and will take necessary action,” he said.
 
 
