HYDERABAD: Moved by a letter written by 11 girls who are victims of child marriages,   has taken up their cause as a public interest litigation (PIL). This is with the twin objectives of inspiring the administrative mechanism of the state to effectively prevent child marriages, on one hand, and to assist those girls caught in such marriages that are inflicting serious health problems both on them and their children, on the other. The child brides wrote the letter to the Chief Justice of Hyderabad High Court.

 The letter, written by child marriage victims B   and 10 other girls (all aged 15-19), highlights the various forms and ill-effects of this social evil widely prevalent all over Telangana. The high court has noticed that these minor brides are deprived of their human rights and are suffering untold miseries after the marriages.
 
 
 
 
 Several such young girls are conceiving at tender ages and are dying either at the stage of pregnancy or during delivery. In case they survive the ordeal, their children are plagued by health problems. This is in addition to severe health problems the minor mothers develop. Several social protection schemes are not available to these brides. Even at the all-India level, benefits of such schemes are reaching only 18% victims. There are no shelter homes for such victims; they are forced to go back to their in-laws, where they are subjected to drudgery, violence and abuse. Their parents are not in a position to fight court cases to ensure they get government benefits. Even if some make it to courts, they are finding it difficult to make several rounds. As a result, they are feeling frustrated and intimidated, the HC said, converting the letter to a PIL.
 
 The PIL framed by the authorities says all child marriages should be declared null and void. It adds that there should be 5% reservation of seats in all educational institutions for child marriage victims. Special skill or job-oriented skills’ imparting centres have to be started and these child brides should be supported financially till they become entrepreneurs through such training. Both the integrated child development scheme and   must extend   to the  . The case may be heard next week.
 
