GREATER NOIDA: While students of classes X and XII who appeared for the first UP   on Tuesday seemed relieved due to the “easy” Hindi paper, officials received complaints from two inter-colleges at Kasna and Sakipur for poor visibility due to low power bulbs in the centres.

 The Gautam Budh Nagar district magistrate and the SSP inspected the centres and ordered “corrective measures” after students there were forced to write the exam in semi-dark conditions on a cloudy day.
 
 District magistrate BN Singh admitted that he noticed lack of visibility during an inspection of Shri Amichand Inter College, Kasna, and Nehru Smarak Inter College in Sakipur and said he had directed the centre superintendents to install high power bulbs before the next exam so that the students were not forced to face the same situation again.
 
 “It was felt that more bulbs are required at around three to four centres and it was directed to ensure the same,” he told TOI.
 
 In fact, students could be seen writing exams in poor visibility in the 16 functional rooms at the Nehru Smarak Inter College, Sakipur, and 14 functional rooms of the Shri Amichand Inter College, Kasna. Poor electricity connection created problem in another centre.
 
 “We had already installed 100 watt bulbs in each of the rooms but after the DM and other officials pointed out that light seemed insufficient, we immediately procured 200 watt LED bulbs and got them installed in each of the rooms,” said Ashok Kumar Dwivedi, centre superintendent, Shri Amichand Inter College.
 
 Shiv Sharma, centre superintendent, Nehru Smarak Inter College, Sakipur, said while they had already installed one bulb in each room, they have ordered another bulb to be installed in each of the 16 functional rooms.
 
 In the Shaheed Bhagat Singh Inter College, Surajpur, poor electricity connection was noted due to which light remained off for a few minutes. Tarachand, centre superintendent, said the connection was fixed soon after the DM’s visit.
 
 
