HYDERABAD: Only 50-55% of the total 2.75 crore targeted Public Distribution System (PDS) beneficiaries are actually consuming the rice they buy at   of Re 1 per kg from fair price shops in Telangana, with around 30-35% beneficiaries selling it at Rs 10 in the  , according to officials of the civil supplies department.

 The remaining 12-15% ‘BPL’ families holding food security cards (ration cards) are not buying rice from fair price shops and till recently the unsold rice was being smuggled out of the country to West African nations via Kakinada and Mumbai.
 
 
 Subsequently, officials of the Telangana civil supplies department cracked down and stopped the smuggling through GPS tracking of trucks and recovered unsold PDS rice worth Rs 828 crore.
  
  
 
 “Our field survey and analysis indicated that 12-15% of cardholders are not buying the subsidised rice and may be using their ration cards for the health scheme and as proof of identity. We installed GPS on 1,383 trucks transporting PDS rice, did geo-fencing of 18,000 routes and started monitoring from the command and control centre at Hyderabad, which helped curb the diversion of rice. Control rooms are being set up in each district to track vehicle movement through GPS and CCTV cameras are being set up in each corporation godown,” civil supplies department commissioner C V Anand told TOI.
 
 “Earlier, fair price shop dealers were not showing the closing balance of the left over. With tracking and computerisation, it has become mandatory for them to show the 15% closing balance. As a result, the state has saved Rs 828 crore in the first year.”
 
 After the introduction of   in 17,200 shops in 31districts of Telangana in the last 20 months till December 2017, at least 4.58 crore transactions took place, saving 1.94 lakh metric tonnes of rice valued at Rs 521crore.
 
 Before the introduction of technology, ration dealers, department officials and traders connived and diverted the leftover rice to the black   were tampered with to show the ration as delivered to the beneficiaries.
 
