VELLORE: An unidentified man, who was mistaken for a thief, was bludgeoned to death by a group of villagers at Parasumarampatti in Vellore district on Saturday night. The Gudiyattam police arrested eight people in connection with the murder.

 Police said people spotted the   man, aged around 30 years, wandering near the village in the night. Since there was a rumour that a gang of north Indians involved in human trafficking and robbery was on the prowl, the villagers mistook him for a thief. They chased and attacked him with logs.
 
 The man, who sustained grievous injuries, started to bleed profusely. Some villagers contacted the 108 ambulance service and moved him to government hospital in Gudiyattam where he died around 1am on Sunday.
 
 Gudiyattam police inspector   and his team conducted an inquiry in and around Parasumarampatti village. “There is no evidence to prove that the victim was a thief. We assume that he was a man with learning difficulties. He might have reached Gudiyattam by train and was wandering in and around the town,” said the inspector.
 
 It was a case of “misunderstanding” and “mob justice”, the police said, adding that the villagers had gathered in large numbers and attacked him mercilessly.
 
 Based on a complaint by village administrative officer Muniyappan, the police registered a case under Sections 147 (punishment for rioting), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapons), 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt), 324 (voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons or means), 506 (II) (if threat be to cause death or grievous hurt, etc.) and 302 (punishment for murder) of the IPC and arrested Venkatesan, 46, Vasu, 55, Dharman, 44, Yoganathan, 42, Vinayagam, 35,  , 26, Vinod, 27, and Tamilselvan, 28, all residents of the village.
 
 Vellore superintendent of police P Pakalavan said if the public found an unidentified man or a woman moving in a suspicious manner, they should either inform police or hand him or her over to police. “The act of the villagers is totally unacceptable and is a crime. We will take stern action against them as per the provisions of the law,” he said.
 
 The SP added that they had been trying to establish the identity of the deceased.
 
 It may be recalled that a 19-year-old youth was killed by a group of villagers near Cheyyar in Tiruvannamalai district on April 22, mistaking him for a thief. The Cheyyar police had arrested seven people in Sumangali village for stoning S Sadasivam to death and inflicting injuries on two of his friends.
 
 
