Mumbai: The Punjab National Bank ( ) stock closed nearly 10% lower on the   on Wednesday on news of the Rs 11,000-crore fraud. In the process, it also dragged down most other banking stocks. 

 At close of session, the Bank of India stock was almost 8% down, while Corporation Bank was down 4.8% and   was just over 4% off its previous close. Market players fear that Indian banks, already under tremendous pressure due to rising bad loans, will be further affected by the contagion effect of the PNB fraud.
 
 As a result of the day’s strong selling in banking stocks, investors in these lenders were left poorer by about Rs 31,500 crore with the market capitalisation of all the listed banks in India now down to Rs 17.8 lakh crore from Rs 18.1 lakh crore.
 
 A report by   noted that for the previous quarter, Indian banks have reported an earnings decline of about 60% on an annual basis, mainly due to high non-performing assets and provisioning for the same. “Margins continue to decline for most banks as continued slippages as well as competition put pressure on yields,” the report said.
 
 On Wednesday, after PNB reported to the exchanges about its fraud (worth about $1.8 billion), investor sentiment on   suffered further, dealers said. The mood was already at a low ebb after the recent global bearish moves that had pulled down indices by nearly 5% in less than two weeks. As a result, the sensex, which had opened higher following a steady trend in global markets the previous day, witnessed a sell-off in late session and closed 145 points lower at 34,156 points. The banking index on the BSE closed 1.6% lower.
 
 The day’s selling was once again led by foreign funds with a net outflow figure of Rs 729 crore. So far in the month, foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) have take nearly $1 billion out of the Indian stock market, official data showed. 
 
 The sensex laggards included Yes Bank, down 4.4%, along with SBI and  . Top gainers were  , up 2.5%, and Bharti Airtel, up 2.4%.
 
 
