FAZILKA: The police have booked eight people for the murder of 19-year-old Sarabjit Singh, son of sarpanch Darshan Singh of   village in Fazilka district. The accused include a former sarpanch and his accomplices. The teen was attacked on Thursday while he was returning from his college.

 Sarabjit sustained sharp and blunt injuries which led to his death, stated doctors who carried out his postmortem examination on Friday. Following the autopsy, his body was handed over to the family.
 
 Meanwhile, police have booked eight people for murder, including a former sarpanch, three brothers and one woman. They have been identified as Jasbir Singh, Jagtar Singh and Mukhtiar Singh (brothers), Baljinder Kaur (Mukhtiar’s wife), Kulwant Singh, Piara Singh, former sarpanch   and his son Sandip Singh, all residents of Gharuka.
 
 In his statement to the police, Darshan said his son Sarabjit was studying at Shaheed Udham Singh College in Mohan Ke Uttar village under Guru Har Sahai sub-division of Ferozepur. On Thursday, when he was returning home on his motorcycle after taking an exam, he was intercepted by the accused, who beat him with iron rods, alleging he harassed their daughter, stated the complainant.
 
 On getting the information, Darshan rushed to the spot to save his son. Seeing him, the accused fled from the spot, leaving behind Sarabjit in a pool of blood, alleged Darshan. He said his son was taken to the civil hospital in Fazilka from where he was referred to another hospital as his condition deteriorated.
 
 “The doctors on duty referred him to the medical college in Faridkot but we took him to   in neighbouring Rajasthan where he succumbed to his injuries on Friday,” Darshan told the police.
 
 Sources said political enmity could be the reason behind the killing as Narinder, former sarpanch, was nursing a grudge against Darshan, who owes allegiance to the Congress. On getting the information of the murder of young son of sarpanch,   MLA from   visited the bereaved family to offer condolences. Assuring justice to the victim’s family, he asked the police officials to arrest the accused at the earliest.
 
 
