Abhishek.Shukla2@timesgroup.com

 With more than three decades of experience in film and television, actor  , who has critically acclaimed films like  's ' ' and Saeed Mirza's' Salim Langde Pe Mat Ro' to his credit, says he is now being noticed for his acting. The 'Nukkad' actor, who was shooting for  's 'Abhi Toh Party Shuru Hui Hai' in Lucknow till recently, shared with us his craving for a celebrity status, about getting recognition in Bollywood and his experience of Lucknow.
 
 
 Saeed Mirza was the only person who gave me work as a lead and I would forever remain indebted to him ki woh mujhe hero ke bracket mein laaye. Baaki jitno ke saath maine kaam kiya woh khud strugglers thay. They themselves were looking for stars to back their projects.
 From 'Nukkad' to this film, jitna bhi kaam mila hai, it has come on its own to me. Fortunately I haven’t had to ask people for work. The role in' Nukkad' came to me when the person who was about to do it, rejected it. 'Salim Langda'... was not written keeping me in my mind, it was a coincidence that I got it. But yes, when I find articles on the internet saying that people still don’t know my name even after 32 years in the industry, it hurts. There have been many incidents when a fan has come up to me and said sir aapki 'Salim Langde Pe Mat Ro' dekhi hai, in Black Friday you were awesome and ' ' as the coach you did a fantastic job, in 'Road to Sangam' I didn’t recognise you. Now, he is mentioning all that and suddenly he asks, what is your name sir? Toh mujhe bada ajeeb lagta tha. One director friend told me that it is an achievement because they remember you by your character. Now, whenever I go to a function I introduce myself saying I am Pavan Malhotra. Coming to your question, I received the National Award for Fakir, and so many more, even international ones, but Mumbai mein aaj tak mujhe koi award nahi mila. 
 
 
 Of course. Anybody who says my work is appreciated but I don’t give a damn about recognition, is lying. As an actor, we entertain the audience and we need that recognition. There is a certain faction in the society which writes about me that the actor has not got his due in Bollywood, this means that faction believes in me. But that doesn’t mean ki bas ho gaya aur hamein aur kuchh nahi chhaiye. Woh behta paani hai, content hona zaruri hai par ambition hi khatam kar doge toh kaam kaise karonge. Like others, I too crave celebrity status and people's attention.
 
 
 
 Yahan ki tehzeeb and khana kamaal ki hai. This is the first time I am exploring this city. Recently I went to a friend’s house Lakhnavi tehzeeb se rubaroo hone ke liye aur usey mehsus karne ka mauka mila. Their hospitality was amazing. Then I saw the Imambara. Decades ago, I had come here with my mother, when I was a kid and the only thing I remember is she tore a piece of paper and I could hear the echo at the other end of the corridor. Whatever I have seen till now, I can only imagine what kind of place it would have been in its era. I have thoroughly enjoyed my stay here in Lucknow. 
 —  .Shukla2@timesgroup.com
 
 
