HYDERABAD: ‘To pee or not to pee’ is often a dilemma faced by commoners when they feel the urge to use public toilets that are generally filthy and unfit for use. A Hyderabad-based company,  , intends to change this with its novel concept of luxurious washrooms —‘Loo Café’— that will dot the streets of Hyderabad this year.

 
 The Loo Café, set up in just 170sft space, consists of three washrooms (one each for male, female and disabled), a café and a space allocated for  . The space has been allocated to the company by  .
 
 “One need not pay to use the washrooms. We will maintain the facility through the revenues generated by the adjoining café,” Ixora FM founder and CEO Abhishek Nath said.
  
  
 The first Loo Café, that was inaugurated by   IT and industries minister, KT Rama Rao, in  , has been set up at an investment of over Rs 10 lakh.
 
 Providing details about the facility, Nath said that the structure is made of pre-fabricated-wood which is fire proof and insect-proof and CCTV cameras will be installed around the Loo Cafes to strengthen the security.
 
 He pointed out that in one year, the company plans to come up with 100 Loo Cafes across Hyderabad and each Loo Café will be unique as it will offer various services. “We want to power these units with technology to take care of the security aspect. At some areas, we can have pharmacies, cobbler shops along with washrooms, which will generate revenues,” he said, adding that the company intends to take the concept of Loo cafes to other cities such as Mumbai, Indore, Pune, Chennai and Mohali, among others.
 
 “Loo Cafe aims to ensure hygiene, waste management and sanitation across the nation. The goal of   is to achieve open defecation free cities by 2019,” he added.
 
 The company, which is into facilities management and was set up around two years ago, had clocked revenues of around ?20 crore in FY18 and is eyeing a five-fold jump in revenues this fiscal. The company has business in nine cities and will be expanding operations in four new cities this year. Ixora FM manages over 100 facilities in the country.
 
