AGRA:  , which has been in the news for carrying out around 900 encounters in 2017, killing over 30 criminals and injuring hundreds of others, has another face to it. Glimpses of this face have been seen in several cases in recent times. For instance, instead of waiting for an ambulance, a head constable in Agra took a road accident victim to hospital on his back. A sub-inspector in Sonbhadra district spent Rs 1 lakh from his personal savings to ensure that a child who was hit by a train could walk again.
 
  More recently, a bunch of Etawah cops took an 11-year-old boy to a village fair. The child was majorly upset with his father for not taking him out. Senior officials say that while it is difficult to counter crime with such soft gestures, the new crop of policemen in the state is conscious of their public image and are working to improve the same in their own ways.
  
  In another such case, an inspector in Mathura took a pledge to bear the monthly expenses of a family whose sole breadwinner was thrown out of a bus and killed. Inspector Bharat Bhushan Tiwari, SHO of Robertsganj police station who spent his own money on a child who had suffered a train accident, said, “Shiv Vishwakarma, 11, lost his legs in an accident while crossing the railway track. He was accompanied by his mother, who was killed in the incident. I saw the child during routine patrolling last year. He was dragging himself to some place. His courage to survive in hardship touched me and I decided that I will ensure that he walks on his feet one day.”
  
  Tiwari took the kid to BHU hospital and got him artificial limbs. For this gesture, UP Police felicitated him. In another case, in-charge of Raya police station in Mathura district, inspector   not only arranged a proper funeral for a poor labourer who was thrown out of a bus, but also gave Rs 2 lakh to the affected family. “It happened in October 2017. I just couldn’t stand the pain Ravinder’s wife   was going through. She had three small children. They were so poor that they didn’t even have money for his cremation. I just decided to help them,” Sharma said. His gesture was lauded on social media platforms and also by his colleagues in police.
  
  Similarly, in Agra, head constable   took a road accident victim to hospital on his on January 1. On IG’s recommendation, he was felicitated by Agra SSP.
  
  DGP public relation officer, Rahul Srivastav said, “The new crop of policemen in the state is conscious of their public image. It is a very god thing and the department appreciates such gestures.”
