BHOPAL: You may have not noticed it, but many, particularly children, do miss the juicy chocolates at 297 railway stations of West Central Railways (WCR). 

 Vendors at these 297 stations, including 63 major ones, under the jurisdiction of WCR don't keep chocolates for sale. The reason they cite is that they don't have the permission to sell chocolates while railway officials have a handy excuse that nobody ever sought permission for their sale.
 
    railway station has around 32 food stalls and Habibganj 15. According to vendors, there is a huge demand for chocolates at platforms, especially from kids. "Even though we have   flavoured biscuits, but children ask for chocolates. But we are not allowed to sell them," they said. 
 
   , a food stall vendor at Bhopal railway station, said: "We sell food products to around 250 passengers daily, and over 200 of them ask for chocolates. We are forced to refuse them as we don't sell chocolates. We have sought permission from our supervisor several times, but he says that railways has not approved chocolates under the permitted list of food products that can be sold." 
 
 S K Das, chief commercial manager of WCR, said: "There is no restriction from the railways on sale of chocolates. We have set policies regarding it and have separate contract with each vendor. Vendors can sell products of the brands, which have been approved by the railways. At present none of the chocolate brands has been approved by the railways as no vendor has approached us for it. We only approve a product, if a vendor or stall supervisor approaches us and wants to sell it at the railway station."
 
 He said, "After we receive the application, we check the product's quality and if we find it up to the standards and are satisfied then we include it in the licensed products. Either vendors have not approached us, or if they have applied then it may have not been approved according to standards. Still they can come and apply for chocolate brands and if the product is not harmful for passengers, we will approve it."
 
 
