HYDERABAD: The Forum for Good Governance alleged that the CID probe into the Bhoodan land scam has not made any headway even three years after it commenced investigations. 

 An   reply from the CID to FGG revealed that the Bhoodan land scam case is still under investigation. The   made a detailed inquiry on the irregularities committed in Bhoodan land and submitted the report to the government. In 2015, the then government transferred the Sinha report on irregularities committed by chairman and members of the AP Bhoodan Yagna board to the CID for taking necessary action.
 
 Retired IFS official and FGG secretary M   said, "The Telangana government in December 2014 appointed SK Sinha as chairman of the task force to verify the appropriateness of land allotments made previously as it felt that in a number of cases, the land alienated by the government were not put to the intended use. We have obtained the report." 
 
 "Keeping in mind that there were many cases, he requested for extension of time which the government refused. The committee then submitted its findings and was wound up abruptly," he said.
 
 He added, "There are allegations regarding Bhoodan land to the extent of 145 acres in Ibrahimpatnam. The government-issued memo in March 2015 recommending that action be taken against some staff of the collector's office as well as criminal prosecution of G Rajender Reddy, chairman of the   from December 2012 to July 2014. In July 2015, the government directed the RR collector to initiate criminal action against the chairperson and some employees of the board. The government also recommended that a thorough inquiry be conducted into the affairs of the Vinobha Nagar Development Society."
 
 According to Padmanabha Reddy, "When the SK Sinha report is clear and complete, why is the CID dragging its feet to complete the inquiry and raising doubts about the intention of the government in taking action against those who were involved in the allotment of government land to influential people." When contacted, CID additional DG   refused to comment.
 
 
