THIRUVANANTHAPURAM:   (KSACS) has decided to go with 4th generation   test, instead of nucleic acid-based test, to detect HIV in the window period. A study conducted by the society has found that the Elisa test was more effective than nucleic test.

 HIV screening had become a matter of concern following the detection of the virus in a kid, who underwent blood transfusion at Regional   Centre. Now, National AIDS Control Organisation has informed that it would supply Elisa test kits to the state.
 
 "For the time being, we have supplied enough kits to all government medical college hospitals and Regional Cancer Centre. Moreover, Kerala State Medical Services Corporation (KMSCL) has also been asked to procure the kits, which will be supplied to all the blood banks and hospitals with blood banks,'' said Dr R  , managing director of KSACS.
 
 As per the study, in the nucleic test the virus could not be detected even for a week after the blood is collected. "But Elisa test gives more accurate result even during the first one week window period,'' said Dr Ramesh.
 
 In the past one year, KSACS collected 4 lakh blood units, of which 300 were detected with HIV using the third generation Elisa test. "In the past four years, we might have collected about 25 lakh blood units and only in one case it has gone undetected (in the   incident). Hence our testing facilities are accurate. With this 4th generation test, we can assure 100% safety and accuracy,'' he pointed out.
 
 Now, KSACS has decided to go for a wide-spread campaign for voluntary blood donation since it is the only safe way for collecting the blood units. 
 
 "We have achieved only 60% in voluntary blood donation and the remaining is still replacement blood donation. The latter is always risky,'' he said.
 
 Catch 25, a campaign to encourage youths in the age group 18 to 25 for voluntary blood donation will be launched by KSACS. 
 
 "We have found that most of high-risk groups are above 30 years and hence it would be safe if we could promote voluntary blood donation among youngsters below 25 years,'' said Dr Ramesh.
 
 
