Hyderabad: After a turbulent 2017, the fog of uncertainty finally seems to be lifting from the information technology sector,   president R Chandrasekhar told newspersons here on Thursday.

 “There has been a lot of turbulence in the industry...last year for the first time we deferred our industry guidance by three months because of the heightened uncertainties. But to some extent now they have settled down. It is not that the uncertainty has disappeared but the level of uncertainty now is far better understood,” Chandrasekhar said on the sidelines of the WCIT-NILF 2018 curtainraiser. He said the apex IT body would be sharing its industry guidance for 2018 during NILF 2018 in Hyderabad.
 
 Admitting to the rapid changes facing the sector and the urgent need for skilling, he said Nasscom has taken up the `Skills of the future’ initiative as part of which it has identified eight technology areas including AI, Big Data, Data Analytics, Machine Learning, 3D printing, among others. 
 
 It has also set up a CoE on AI and Data Sciences in Bengaluru with the Karnataka government and with the Telangana government too focused on these areas Nasscom is in discussions with them for setting up a similar CoE in Telangana too, he said.
 
 Pointing out that the IT sector along with the financial sector was among the most impacted by technological changes, he termed these changes as necessary and batted for government policies that are in tune with the changing times. “Techology itself is changing the nature of work…IT is the cause of it and IT is also impacted by it…and we will see some acceleration going forward…given this change in both, specific sectors and nature of jobs, it becomes necessary to have policies with regard to labour, employment and lot of other associated things…policies which are conducive to that change, recognize that change and enable that change, otherwise the policies of the country can become an impediment to the transition that is happening...we certainly look forward to these changes, we believe they are necessary and we will certainly continue to work with the government to help come up with more future ready policies in these areas…,” he said.
 
 Talking about Nasscom’s budget expectations, he said the industry body has shared its expectations with the finance ministry that are basically centred around the ease of doing business, challenges with regard to GST, issues with regard to taxation and the environment for the startup ecosystem, including for example the angel tax issues. “It is essentially about streamlining the business environment, it is not about sops,” he said.
 
 On the H1-B visa issue, he said the existing status quo continues as the anticipated changes being talked about were only reports in media. “There were certain reports in the media about possible changes. Those changes have not taken place...so the status quo continues,” he said.
 
 
