Nagpur: The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has slapped two notices on Young Men’s Christian Association (YMCA), directing it to demolish the restaurant constructed in its club premises in Civil Lines without getting sanctioned building plan. Fire and emergency services department is yet to take action though the restaurant does not have a NOC. TOI had on January 5 highlighted that YMCA constructed a restaurant in its club premises without any sanctions. A kitchen and a shed has been constructed in front of the badminton club. Another shed has been constructed on the left side of the club. Tables and chairs etc had been stored in the premises to open the restaurant. Assistant commissioner from NMC Dharampeth Zone told TOI YMCA cannot open the restaurant and will have to demolish the structures. “Notice under section 53 of Maharashtra Regional and Town Planning (MRTP) Act has been served directing it to demolish pucca constructions within 30 days. Notice under section 55 of MRTP Act was also issued directing it to demolish temporary structures within 15 days. NMC will take action in case YMCA fails to comply with the orders,” he said. As per the city’s development plan, YMCA Club falls under public and semi-public zone, where NMC cannot sanction building plan for commercial restaurant. Chief fire officer Rajendra Uchake said inspection was pending for lack of sufficient staff. “Preliminary inspection was conducted and found no NOC from our department. Also, no fire preventive and safety systems were installed at the restaurant. We have only one officer designated for conducting inspections. Too may cases are pending with the officer, so inspection got delayed. Action will be taken as soon as possible,” he said. As per fire department norms, any restaurant/hotel/eatery with height of 15 metres and in space of 150 sq m requires an NOC from the fire department. These types of establishments cannot be constructed and opened without installation of systems suggested in the NOC. Earlier, YMCA general secretary Niraj Singh had told TOI all procedures will be followed to operate the restaurant.