JAIPUR: The state finance department has proposed to impose 50% of the ‘resumption charges’ on those who have purchased plots in government   but have failed to carry out minimum construction as per the norms.

 If the proposal is implemented, the residents will have to shell out 35% more price. At present, the urban development and housing department (UDH) imposes 15%   charge on residents who don’t carry out minimum construction on their plots. 
 
 A senior UDH official said, “Recently, the UDH department has forwarded a proposal to the finance department to increase the resumption charges from 15% to 20%. However, the finance department has recommended to increase the charges from 15% to 50%. The finance department reasoned that the move will not only increase the revenue of UDH, but also motivate genuine buyers to purchase plots in residential schemes.” 
 
 The official further said, “People who purchase plots through auction or lottery have to carry out minimum construct on the vacant plot in a stipulated time. As per the provisions, the allotment of the plot is cancelled if the owner fails to adhere to the norms. Once the allotment is cancelled, the owner has to deposit the resumption charge for the re-allotment of the plot. This charge was earlier 15% of the reserve price of the area.”
 
 According to JDA sources, though the state government is planning to increase the resumption charges, it has not understood the root cause as why people are not constructing houses in schemes developed by the civic bodies. 
 
 A number of plots in housing societies are found unoccupied as allottees avoid construction due to lack of infrastructure development. Moreover, in absence of power supply, sewerage system and water supply in the upcoming colonies, allottees avoid construction. 
 
 Since 2005, the JDA has launched 31 housing schemes. But there is no habitation in most of the colonies. Sources further said that the JDA should only start colonies in far-flung areas after seeking no-objection certificates (NOCs) from the water and electricity departments. “Both these departments have locked horns with JDA over the issue of development charge. Also, these departments claim the colonies are far away and it is not feasible to provide water or electricity as a huge capital is required to develop infrastructure,” the official said.
 
 
