CHENNAI: Upkeep of hygiene and sanitation across   is facing a serious crisis as the state is unable to recruit sanitary inspectors. This is because there is a dispute regarding the recognition of the institutes that provide the sanitary inspector certificate, a necessary qualification for the post. This comes at a time when the state has a 40% vacancy of sanitary inspectors. 

 As a result of this, the commissioner of municipal administration has been unable to fill up 110 posts in various municipalities across the state, an advertisement for which was given in December last year. The Madras high court on February 7 gave an interim stay on releasing the results of this appointment based on the petition of 20 students from WASH institute in  . The institute offers a PG diploma in environmental sanitation science course.
 
 As per the recruitment notification, the sanitary inspector certificate must be awarded by the director of public health, Mumbai, or   (GRI) in Dindigul.
 
 The students' contention is that their institute is affiliated to the   (MKU) and the degree is nationally recognised by the Union government's department of drinking water supply and sanitation ministry. MKU has also recognised their degree as per proceedings of their academic council.
 
 However, the CMA's notification for the recruitment does not recognise the institute's degree, thus giving a raw deal to these students. This comes even as the directorate of public health (DPH) and the municipal administration department has formed a committee to analyse the recognition of this degree and to decide whether it is equivalent to the degree offered by GRI.
 
 "The notification was issued before a final decision regarding the eligibility and equivalence of the certificates has been taken by the government," the students counsel has told the high court.
 
 However in October, MKU had issued a statement that they have withdrawn the equivalence certificate stating that WASH institute had obtained the certificate from MKU without informing GRI.
 
 The HC in its order has directed the municipal administration department not to publish the results of the recruitment notification until further orders as the students are entitled to submit their application for consideration.
 
 This directly impacts the citizens of the state on the ground as sanitary inspectors are responsible for co-ordination of conservancy work, ensuring hygiene in hospitals and upkeep of sanitation in local bodies. Government sources say that municipalties are the worst-hit because of the lack of sanitary inspectors.
 
 
