NAGPUR:   playback singer   stole the hearts of his fans as began his concert with ‘Musafir Hoon Yaaron’ on the second day of Khasdar Sanskrutik Mahotsav at   ground, on Sunday.

 Abhijeet warmed the hearts of the audience on the wintry night and a few quips on kachoris had the fans amused as they swayed to his songs.
 
 As the emcee announced Abhijeet’s arrival at the venue, fans hopped from their seats to get a glimpse of the singer from a distance. When the orchestra strummed the tunes to the title track of Shah Rukh Khan-starrer ‘Baadshah’, the audience roared in excitement.
 
 The cultural festival was inaugurated by actor   on Saturday while union transport minister   presided. Playback singer   and some legislators were present. Khan made a brief appearance and presented ‘Main hoon hero tera’ to lift the audience’s excitement.
 
 ‘Tan Tana Tan Tan Tan Tara’ turned out to be the most eagerly awaited number the fans wanted   to perform. To keep them yearning for their demand, the singer kept teasing them with some his hits and joked “Nau se bara karna shayad allowed nahi hai” (Staying out from nine to twelve might not be allowed).
 
 Abhijeet said he had a chance to savour some homemade kachoris at Gadkari’s residence earlier in the day and jestingly offered some to his band members. The anecdote served as a running joke throughout the performance.
 
 ‘Musafir’ and ‘O Majhi Re’ were a tribute by Abhijeet to  . “Many singers had tried to copy Kishore Da’s style of singing and were successful because music producers wanted that in the 1980s. I, on the other hand, failed to copy the legend but went on singing in my own way. Glad it worked out,” the singer said.
 
 The audience perhaps connected best with the singer when he pointed out the thrill of a live musical performance. “I don’t believe playing recorded music in a live concert as it does give justice to the audience. Musicians may make a few mistakes while performing live but it shows their respect for their audience,” said Abhijeet.
 
 
