RANCHI: Sharp rise in students' suicide across the state is likely to figure in  's country-wide '  on February 16. The programme has been slotted for telecast across the country on  ,   and government websites from 10.30 am to 12 noon. 

 According to the Union home ministry, 142 student suicides were reported in 2014 from the state which rose to 233 last year. The rise has been attributed to examination stress among others. Though Jharkhand is ranked 13th at the national level, in terms of total number of suicides in one year, the increasing trend is alarming as it is close to 80%.
 
 Modi is likely to take up this worrying trend and advise the students on how to deal with the stress.
 
 To make the programme available to students and all stakeholders, the state school education and literacy department has made arrangements with the IT department for its telecast on jhargov.tv, the state government's web portal. 
 
 "We want to ensure that every child in every government school gets a chance to listen to the PM. We have directed all the district superintendents of education and the district education officers to ensure the same," school education and literacy department secretary Amrendra Pratap Singh said. According to a Union government circular, the programme should be telecast in all the schools having students from Class VI and above. 
 
 The children also got a chance to send in their questions to the PM directly online, the last day for which was Sunday.
 
 Sachin Kumar, coordinator of school education department said, "We had circulated a notice in all the schools having students from Class 9 to 12 regarding sending of questions to the PM. While we don't have an exact figure of how many questions are sent from government schools, we are expecting at least one thousand."
 
 Meanwhile, CBSE has also issued direction to all its affiliated schools to make necessary arrangements in the school to enable the students watch or listen to the telecast.
 
 Ram Singh, principal of the Delhi Public School, Ranchi said, "The programme is to be telecast from 10:30 am to 12 noon and we will ensure that all children from Class 6 to 12 are able to watch it. We have also encouraged our students to send questions to the prime minister."
 
 
