MADURAI: The government’s sudden increase of the bus fare overnight shocked many commuters, who were regular travelers. Many of them resorted to blocking the buses at the   bus stand in Madurai, protesting the steep hike in bus fares. Thideer Nagar police arrested some persons for protesting.

 The   operates about 700 city buses in the Madurai division, which is mostly used by villagers, and college goers, while the school students travel for free. On Friday, only the school students looked unperturbed while all others were angry.   of Usilampatti, was seen arguing with the conductor, telling him that their strike had resulted in the government hiking the fares affecting all the people.
 
 A Asokan, of   said that the government’s claim that cash crunch was the reason for the bus fare hike was unacceptable. “MLAs travel in SUVs and luxury cars and never in buses. They have free passes too, but their salary has been hiked to Rs one lakh. Daily wagers do not see Rs one lakh in their entire life, now they will suffer more because of the hike,” he said.
 
 K Chandran of  , a fruit vendor, said that he and his wife come to Madurai to sell fruits on a daily basis, while their sons go to work by bus. Till yesterday, the travel expenditure for his wife and him was Rs 60 per day, while their sons together spend Rs 80 on their daily travel. They set aside Rs 5000 every month for travel. “Our monthly bus expenditure was Rs 4200 but today it doubled, and our fare alone without luggage worked out to Rs 108 for the return journey and our sons paid Rs 160, so now we will have to set aside Rs 8400,” he said. This family’s collective monthly income is less than Rs 20,000 and the fare hike will definitely burn a hole in their pockets. Their daily luggage costs twice that of an individual ticket, which has also gone up steeply.
 
 “I rushed to purchase a Rs 50 daily ticket, which enables me to travel on many trips as needed in 24 hours in the city buses. The conductor who usually has the stock said that the those passes were not available today,” said  , who comes from   to   on a daily basis, he spent Rs 33 against the old fare of Rs 16 on this one way journey.
 
 A TNSTC employee said that bad management with the government and never reimbursing the transport corporation for all the free passes including for students, media, and differently abled, among others was one of the reason for the loss. If this was given they would be able to tide over.
 
 
