MUMBAI: A financial company executive out jogging near   on Thursday saw three young women being harassed by five bike-borne youths around 5.20am. 

 He tried to report the incident to patrolling cops but couldn’t find one. He called up the police emergency number ‘100’, but a cop got back only at 7am, an hour-and-half after the incident. 
 
 “We are not aware of any incident of harassment as the women did not lodge an official complaint,” a senior IPS officer told TOI. 
 
 The police are likely to go through CCTV footage on the stretch to verify the alleged incident of harassment and absence of policemen. Ashit Shroff, 57, a Churchgate resident, jogs on   every morning. 
 
 “I was going towards   and had reached Mafatlal Bath around 5.20am. A group of three young women was coming from the opposite direction. Five men on two motorcycles passed me and went to where they were walking. They said something to the women. I heard one of the women say to another that she had addressed the youths as ‘bhai’ (brother) but they were still insisting that she part with her phone number. She yelled at them following which the men left,” said Shroff. 
 
 As it was dark, Shroff couldn’t note down the registration number of the motorcycles. Near Taraporewala Aquarium, the women hailed a cab and left. 
 
 “There is always a patrolling van making rounds of Marine Drive and cops are posted every few feet. Iwas surprised to not find any patrolling personnel that day. Itook a U-turn and continued to jog towards Nariman Point. At Sunder Mahal junction, I noticed a police bus and told a constable about the incident. He said he belonged to the ‘Elite-2’ team. I asked whether he could broadcast a message on his walkie-talkie or whether I should call up the Marine Drive police station.
 
 He said he would send a message. This was at 6am. I did not find any patrolling cop right up to NCPA. On my way back to Churchgate, I called up the Marine Drive police and told the on-duty officer, Pawar, about the incident. He said a patrolling van would be sent. At 6.22am, I left a message on the police emergency number ‘100’ because I couldn’t see any patrolling cops at Churchgate,” said Shroff. He finally got a call from a policeman at 7am, and reported the incident.
 
