CHANDIGARH: City residents can now construct houses without getting the building   approved from the building branch of the estate office.

 For convenience of general public, the UT administration has decided to introduce the concept of self-certification for passing the building plans of residential properties. The administration has already introduced the concept for commercial and industrial properties.
 
  
  
 
 UT administrator V P   on Monday accorded approval for extending the benefit to owners of residential properties up to 500 square yards. The decision will benefit residents who before the launch of online building plan had to undergo tedious and time consuming process of getting the building plans approved.
 
 There are a total of 56 sectors in Chandigarh that have been further divided into four parts (A, B, C and D) by V4 road. Roads in Chandigarh have been classified into seven categories called 7 Vs. Depending upon the size of sector, there are 3,000 to 4,000 houses in each sector.
 
 Sharing details of the process, a senior official said owners through their registered architects will have to submit a certification stating that the plan adhere to the requirements as laid down under building rules, including zoning and architectural control. The applicant will give a 15-day notice to authorities for granting approval along with requisite fee. If the department concerned fails to convey any objection within notice period, the applicant can start  .
 
 However, in case violations are noticed during inspection carried out at any stage – during or after completion of construction – the applicant will be subject to penal action prescribed in the rules. Wrong submission will also lead to cancelation of the plan.
 
 Getting building plans of residential properties approved under self-certification will get expensive as the administration has increased different types of existing fee to be charged from applicants. There has been an increase in security fee, compounding fee and fee for sanctionable changes. Scrutiny fee to be charged from owners has also been introduced.
 
 The implementation of much-awaited self-certification scheme for approval of commercial building plans has been marred by delays. Since July last year, the estate office has put on hold approval of commercial building plans after it made self-certification mandatory. On an average, the building branch of the estate office receives around 50 applications for approval every month. After toiling hard, the estate office worked out the modalities, fee and prepared performas to be used for self-certification of commercial building plans.
 
 J S Gogia, general secretary, Federation of Sectors’ Welfare Associations Chandigarh (FOSWAC), said self-certification will be of great help to residents. He, however, said the administration should not delay the implementation in case of commercial and industrial properties.
 
 
