CHENNAI: Faced with a fund crunch to implement welfare schemes, the Tamil Nadu government on Wednesday sought the support of the NDA government at the   to release pending dues under the 14th   in the category of “basic and performance grant” to the tune of Rs 1,950 crore for urban and rural local bodies in the state. The Tamil Nadu government has been exerting pressure on the Centre for funds to ensure that construction of integrated storm water drain network at Kosasthalaiyur basin is taken up before next monsoon. 
 
 During his visit to New Delhi, municipal administration and water supply minister S P   called on Union ministers, Arun Jaitley (finance), Hardeep Singh Puri (housing and urban affairs) and Narendra Singh Tomar (rural development, panchayat raj) to seek necessary assistance from the ministries. 
  
 The visit comes in the wake of the Centre’s directive to the state “to pursue the court case regarding the local body elections and appraising the ministry before the second instalment of the basic grant for the current fiscal is considered.” The minister detailed the efforts of the state in conducting the civic polls, including setting up delimitation commission programmed to complete the process by March. 
  
 “As you are aware, the financial year is ending, the urban and rural local bodies are in need of funds for the execution of basic amenities and non-release of the second instalment of 14th finance commission’s basic grant and the performance grant will cause serious financial constraint on the local bodies,” Velumani told Jaitley. 
  
 The state also sought the support of finance ministry for availing loan assistance of Rs 4,268 crore from Japanese government to set up 400 MLD capacity   for Chennai. The project is estimated to cost Rs 6,078 crore. The state felt the storm water drain network should be strengthened at a cost of Rs 1,785 crore, in veiw of the 2015 floods that wreaked havoc in the city. 
  
 In the case of rural local bodies, the urgency stems from the fact that the village panchayats have taken up development work based on the village panchayat development plan. The projects are in an advanced stage and require further fund to settle the balance bills. 
  
 “The 14th finance commission grant is one of the major sources of revenue for village panchayats to provide basic and essential services to the public,” the minister said. Election to the local bodies are held up   to multiple litigations and the government is awaiting orders of the high court and Supreme Court to conduct the election, despite the terms of the previous councils lapsing in October 2016. Both the state government and main opposition, DMK have locked horns over the conduct of local body polls, especially delimitation of wards and reservation for scheduled tribes. 
  
  
