JAIPUR: Rajasthan Lokayukta   has been granted extension of three years in office by Governor  . An ordinance has been promulgated to amend section 5 of the   and Up-Lokayukta Act, 1973, in line with the   Act of Uttar Pradesh, to enable extension in Kothari’s term of five years that was to end on Saturday.

 Sources said the process to grant extension to Kothari moved in an unusually swift manner on Thursday, with the state government getting cabinet approval for the ordinance through circulation in the day and the governor signing the notification for ordinance by late midnight. The BJP central leadership played a role the development, said sources. 
  
 
 In what speaks about Kothari’s functioning in past five years, the former   judge has been granted extension by a BJP government though he was appointed Lokayukta by a Congress government. Kothari assumed Lokayukta office on March 25, 2013. In the past five years, the Lokayukta handled high-profile corruption cases like the Mathur commission files and the illegal mine allotments, both of which embarrassed the Vasundhara Raje-governments’ previous (2003-2008) and present tenures. Kothari completed investigations in 185 cases of irregularities in mine allotments in 15 districts under the present Raje-government and recommended action against 32 public servants, while initiated probe against public servants found prima facie guilty in 80 other cases in five districts.
 
 The Mathur commission files were sent to the Lokayukta office on the directions of the high court. Kothari disposed of 1800 of the commission files and submitted a comprehensive report to governor Singh on January 31this year. Besides recommending disciplinary action against 25 public servants on these files, Kothari cancelled land-use changes/land allotments in 38 matters and ordered removal of encroachment in 28 cases, while actions were initiated by courts/police in 27 matters. The state government recovered Rs 20-cr as revenue based on the Lokayukta findings on the Mathur commission files.
 
 In the past five years, the Lokayukta office received 23,982 complaints of which 23,754 cases have been disposed of, which is said to be a record in the state. While 2315 complainants were granted relief, action was initiated against a total of 1239 public servants of different ranks. Annual reports of the Lokayukta office were submitted to the governor’s office in all five years under Kothari.
 
