For the next 40 days, Jacquelin, a second year student at St Teresa’s College, will stay away from the restaurants and hotels that temptingly surround her happening campus. 

 Why? She is on  , and when she tried to think of the one habit that should be probably abstain from till Easter, she could easily identify ‘eating out’. “I stay in a hostel and there is generally a tendency to spend a lot of time and money on restaurant food, among hostelites. We either eat from outside, or starve. It’s a habit that’s tough to give up and it’s not easy on our pocket or health either. That’s why I felt I should challenge it, through the holy period of lent,” Jacquelin says.
 
 While the basic idea of lent is self-denial and giving up luxuries to replicate the sacrifice of Jesus, most often it’s just equated to staying away from non-vegetarian food. However, many among the millennials, who care to observe lent, now take it as a time to challenge themselves to stay away from habits, which they know, aren’t good for them in the long run. “Earlier, I had tried to stay away from sweets and television and thanks to lent, I am not obsessed with them anymore. That’s why I tried to take the route again, to curb my unhealthy eating habit as well,” Jacquelin says.
 
 Mary Antony, who works as a stylist, is abstaining from something that she says she is totally nuts about — wearing nail polish! “There have been times when I styled my nails even twice a week — from changing the colours to shapes; it’s been something I was crazy about. As that’s what I love the most, I guess it qualifies to be my choice of abstinence for lent,” she says.
 
 It’s an often mocked fact that our homemakers cannot simply stay away from their daily dose of sitcoms. Well, a few are planning to challenge that during the period of lent. Sonia Cherian from Kochi says she has decided to turn her face away from soap operas. “Though I have not been a serial addict, a few of them have become hard to stay away from. I don’t know how far I would be able to execute my decision to not check them out during lent, but I feel it’s something worth trying,” she says. In the same vein, many quote social media, constant checking of cell phones and overuse of technology as things they want to stay away from. Techie Chris Thomson says, “I am planning to give up the constant chatting via online messengers. I happened to use an app to track my phone usage and lately, the duration it shows has been shockingly high. I felt that lent would be a good time to convince myself about the need to curb this.”
 
 Meanwhile Issac Sunny, a media professional, has bid goodbye to two of his obsessions — watching movies and having rice! “I am hoping that staying away from movies should be easier, as compared to saying no to rice! It’s definitely a big temptation for me but it’s time I learnt to check it,” he says. 
 
 Staying away from sugar is high on priority on the list of many lent observers and for them, it's as detailed as having tea or coffee without sugar to putting on a brave face in front of all things sweet. Priya Joseph, a techie, says, "I used to be a compulsive snacker at office and even had a 'snack rack' at my workspace which was always filled with edible stuff. I am abstaining from baking too, which I hope will help me cut down further on sugar. Another major point is abstinence from eating the leftovers at home. This may seem funny, but it's a fact and I guess it would help many moms like me to try it during lent."
 How many of them would be able to continue the new practices, post lent? “It might not be always easy to curb it forever,” Chris says, adding, “However, lent is an opportunity to try anyway. Most often, the habit will at least not come back with the same intensity and will leave you having more control over your unhealthy obsessions.”
 
