CHENNAI: The state health department is translating text books of unani medicine from Urdu to  , which it will soon submit to the Central Council of Indian Medicine (CCIM), an apex body that regulates traditional forms of medicine. So, undergraduate and postgraduate courses in the state can be held in Tamil.

 The course is offered in Urdu and English, but 60% of the terminology is in Urdu. So many students from the state don’t apply but if the course is offered in Tamil, it will attract many more, said commissioner of Indian medicine K Senthil Raj. “Our aim is to ensure that more people opt for this stream. At present, a majority of students are Muslims. Many don’t join the course because they don’t know Urdu. We wanted to remove the language barrier,” he said.
 
 Some colleges in Delhi and other parts of north India offer   in Hindi and English instead of Urdu and English, a move welcomed by many senior unani practitioners. 
 
 At present   has one Unani college offering 60 seats, compared to 10 homeopathy, six siddha, five ayurveda and four yoga and naturopathy colleges. This year, the state will adding one more siddha college in Palani. “Knowledge of Urdu is mandatory to join the Unani course. If students haven’t done it in school, they should study it separately and clear an exam based on class 10 syllabus,” said joint director Dr P  .
 
 In most traditional systems of medicine local herbs are used in medicines, which are referred to by the regional names and that is why many courses are bilingual. In the ayurvedic system, many names and procedures are in Sanskrit and in siddha they are in Tamil, whereas in the unani system it is in Arabic/Persian or Urdu. 
 
 A committee, under senior unani practioners and medical officer Syed Azeez Basha Hussain, has completed translating about two text books. “Once the work is complete we will seek permission from the CCIM to offer the course. We are hoping to complete the process soon. If so, we will start the course in the upcoming academic year,” Parthiban said.
 
