BENGALURU: The forthcoming assembly polls in   will witness a rash of smaller parties making a foray into electoral politics.

 From film stars like Upendra, whose   was much publicized, to experienced but nondescript politician, B Gopal’s Praja Parivarthana party, this assembly elections will see a number of new faces.
 
 Considering that even highprofile parties like BSR Congress, floated by   MP, B Sriramulu, and former chief minister B S Yeddyurappa’s KJP failed and their founders had to return to their parent party, the founders of these new parties are aware that they are a drop in the ocean and are bound to be buffeted by big political outfits. Still, it has not dented their hopes.
 
 Their poll promises appear audacious.   (JSP), which comprises north Karnataka farmers, academicians, littérateurs and activists, promised to reduce property tax to Rs 10 per month for 30x40 sqft and 20x30 sqft sites in Bengaluru.
 
 Speaking to TOI, Dr Ayyappa Dore, president of JSP and a former vice-chancellor of Alliance private university, said he and his team worked on the “winning quotient” and are confident of making inroads in the current political scenario of the state.
 
 “The party has its primary base in north Karnataka and will look to explore those constituencies which have longstanding public issues, including those of interstate river disputes, water woes and lack of development for farming community in the region,” Dore said. JSP is planning to field at least 100 candidates despite it being launched as recently as three weeks ago at Kudala Sangama in Bagalkot.
 
 Former DySP Anupama Shenoy is also entering the political fray with her new outfit, Janashakthi party.
 
 “There is a lot of intent among people to ring in change,” Shenoy said, who could contest from Kapu in Udupi. “This can happen only if there is a honest approach. While I admit that it is unrealistic to come to power on our own, we will definitely send a message to politicians who have taken public for granted.”
 
 Gopal, who had previously made an unsuccessful effort from Anekal, said: “We are looking for clean candidates in and around Bagalkot region. We will contest 30 seats.”
 
 The Aam Aadmi Party is planning to contest as many seats as possible and is looking for a “mahagathabandhan” (grand alliance) with independents and like-minded parties apart from the Congress, BJP and JD(S).
 
 
