Cosplay might still be a nascent art in India, but members of the country's small cosplay community have been making waves globally of late. Two of them from Delhi have now added a big feather in their hats by earning the chance to represent India at the biggest cosplay championship in the world. The two-member team of Delhi girls,   and  , emerged victorious at the Indian prelims of the World Cosplay Summit 2018 held in Bangalore last week. The duo will now be representing India at the World Cosplay Summit in  , considered to be the premier cosplay championship in the world. We caught up with the pair – who call themselves Star Guardians – post their win and talked about the preparations for Japan, cosplay culture in India, and the idea of cosplay as a career.

  Aorin, 26, is a professional cosplayer, for whom it is more than just a hobby or a passion. "It’s my full-time job. I earn my living off it," she says. She started cosplaying for fun, before being hired by a gaming company a few years ago and eventually ended up doing full-time cosplay for them around the country, making her one of the very few professional   in the country. Akanksha, 25, is a designer by training and the NIFT graduate is known for her skills at creating costumes – not just for herself but other cosplayers, too. The two live together in Chhatarpur, usually cosplaying together at events and competitions across India.
 
  
  STAR GUARDIANS IN CP:   Sachan as Homura Akemi and Aorin Shariyari as   (BCCL/ Ajay Kumar Gautam)
 
  "We met during events and conventions and over the years, became friends. The cosplay community in the country is small, so almost everyone knows everyone here," says Aorin.
 
  
 Even though competition in Japan is still six months away, the two friends and partners are wasting no time and will begin their preparations soon. Akanksha says, "We have to wear four different costumes each for the competition. So we have to decide on eight characters, get the material for all those eight costumes and make them. That’s a huge task, and given the kind of competition we will be facing at the international level, we better be prepared well."
 
 
  
  
 
  After finalizing their characters, the duo will visit Seelampur and markets in Old Delhi to buy fabric and material for their costumes. "An advantage of being in Delhi as a cosplayer is that you get the best and cheapest material here," says Akanksha. However, the one flip side of cosplaying in Delhi is dealing with the 'aggressive' crowd. Aorin elaborates, "In Delhi, people are too aggressive when it comes to clicking pictures, getting close to cosplayers, and touching us needlessly. I mean, some amount of harassment happens at all events in India, but in Delhi, the crowd is a bit rowdier."
 
  
  
 
  
 Since cosplay is a largely unknown genre in India, limited to comic cons and events, the two girls say that they often invite quite a lot of attention and even ridicule when they cosplay. "People don't know what cosplay is. It’s a very new culture and of course, Comic Con is there but in India, cosplay is limited to events. In US or Japan, people go out in cosplay – not in full costumes, but the odd wig or a costume – and it is no big deal. Here, if you even try that, you are branded a freak. People don’t understand what we do is serious and not fancy dress," says Akanksha. 
 
  
  (BCCL/ Ajay Kumar Gautam)
 
  For Aorin, the questions are even sharper as she often ends up defending her choice of career. "People often ask, 'Why don't you have a normal job?' I say cosplay is art. You make costumes and play that character. It is like any other artform and I take solace in the fact that all unconventional artists face such barbs and questions. This is what I love doing. This is what I am good at, and I make decent money doing this too. That's why I don't have a 'normal' job," she says.
 
  
  (BCCL/ Ajay Kumar Gautam)
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
