JOHANNESBURG Since the murder of her daughter   by  ,   has become a full-time activist. She appears alongside people such as Winnie Mandela in a book - 200 Women: Who will change the way you see the world.

 
 She spoke to Mirror on violence against women, The   and, of course, Pistorius....
 
 
 
 
 Because we believe there is so much bullying against women. Younger and younger women are getting bullied. That's what we're doing from an education point of view. We're saying, 'Stop domestic violence', is this man controlling you, taking away your car, taking away your freedom. You are asked constantly, 'where are you going, who did you talk to, why did you do this.'
 
 The bullying begins at a very early stage because of the breakdown of families. There are just not normal mummy and daddy at home. Violence begins at home.
 
 On the day of her death, Reeva was going to speak on violence against women in a Sandton high school. She could not.
 
 When they were seeing each other, she could not make up her mind. She phoned me to say, 'mummy, I don't know about this man.' At that stage, she was very unhappy because he was critical of her.
 
 She was so beautiful, so fun-loving. I think he was jealous of the attention that she was getting.
 
 
 
 
 Yes, February 14, 2013. She was a big part of our life, an amazing person. She loved us, doted on us. We doted on her. In the sadness about missing her, I'm continuing her work. I want to stop other women from dying.
 
 
 
 Yes, but we have not forgotten her. We get up every morning by 3.15. It was the time she was shot dead. I and Barry (June's husband) get up and look at her painting done by an artist. It is a beautiful picture.
 
 
 
 
 If a rhino is killed in whatever circumstance, you go to jail for 15 years. No questions asked. Oscar killed Reeva and he initially got six years. First it was for culpable homicide. When we went to the High Court, the charge became murder.
 
 
 
 
 The chapter is finished now. I'm not dwelling on Oscar anymore. My focus is on the foundation. That's helping me survive this. Two families have been destroyed.
 
 
 
 
 There will never be justice for Reeva as she is not coming back, no matter what the sentence.
 
 
 
 
 No. He used to walk past me every day. Once he wanted to speak, I think. I did not feel it necessary to speak to someone who has killed our precious daughter. She will never have her wedding, she will never wear the wedding dress, she will never have my grandchildren. He did apologise in open court.
 
 
 
 
 He kept saying there was an intruder. There was no record of anybody. An intruder does not come and lock himself up in the bathroom.
 
 
 
 
 The evidence showed the first shot went through her arm, then it went through the hip. That brought her to the ground. Wouldn't anyone be screaming? How painful could that be?The neighbour ( ) said she heard screams, but the judge said sorry that was 'unreliable witness.' The neighbours said they heard them arguing at 1.30 in the night. Advocates Gerrie Nel and Andrea Johnson fought in the case. They never called her the deceased, they referred to her as Reeva.
 
 
 
 
 She phoned me one day to say 'mummy, he is driving like a lunatic.' He was driving at a speed of 260 (kmph). So I told Reeva to give the phone to him. I told him if you hurt my child I will not keep quiet. He immediately slowed down. There were some other charges against him apart from the murder.
 
 
 
 
 You can't take that away from him, what he did with the disability. He would fall, get up and go again. He had no legs and he became a world champion and world famous.
 
 When he was beaten by another athlete, Oscar was upset and said the guy's prosthetic legs were longer than his. A lot of people were unhappy with that. He played cricket and football at school.
 
 I have got no feelings of revenge against him. That's not me. It doesn't mean that he can't pay for what he has done. Forgiveness comes, that's what God tells us to believe.
 
 
 
 
 Children are being bullied and it is becoming enormous. Bullying is escalating by the day. We're seeking legal remedies also. We're going to work with the government. I met a girl who said her father is molesting her. A girl must be proud of her body. She must have dignity of her body.
 
 I am not running men down generally but it is a malice. Girls have to build the relationship with family members. We've got amazing people as the trustees, we have got attorneys and advocates. I've taken the education route, teaching boys and girls. Boys and men must respect women. Women must teach their sons. We had a media campaign, told the girls to go out and tell the people who abused you.
 
 There has to be awareness in your country also.
 
