HYDERABAD: The ongoing tiger census in   may not have yielded tremendous results, but a centuries-old stone and mortar structure with an arch, possibly dating back to the   period, was discovered in the jungles of Nallamala.

 Located a little distance away from the ghat road leading to Srisailam, the old dilapidated structure has only a wall with an arch left. There is a defunct step-well inside the arched entrance that is filled with mud and debris.
 
 
 According to heritage experts, it could have been a massive structure constructed during the Qutub Shahi period. Heritage experts are now calling for a thorough excavation of the region to study the grand structure and its historical, architectural and cultural significance.
 
 The structure was found about 6km from Vatavarlapally village and 46km from Mannanur. The thick forest had covered the structure all these years and it was exposed perhaps due to felling of trees or denudation. There may also have been massive leaf fall, resulting in its exposure.
 
 Interestingly, heritage experts in Hyderabad are not aware of the existence of such a massive structure in the midst of Nallamala jungles. Post bifurcation of the state, the tiger reserve, which is home to a variety of flora and fauna, has been divided between   (Nagarjunasagar-Srisailam tiger reserve) and Telangana (Amrabad tiger reserve).
 
 “It is a typical Islamic arch with a defunct well. The place is dotted with structures and is worth exploring as the architectural style is of importance. A thorough excavation of the site would perhaps throw new light on the former royal kingdoms,” said city historian Dr Mohammad Safiullah.
 
 Dr Imtiazuddin of Muslim Educational, Social and Cultural Organisation ( ) took photographs of the structure during his visit to Srisailam forests on January 15. “It is a beautiful arch on the left side of the ghat road. It is located about five or six km from Vatavarlapally dhaba, which is 10km from   safari gate (Mitti ka Sher). About eight to 10km after the structure comes the ‘Octopus’ entrance on the right side,” he told TOI.
 
 INTACH Telangana coconvener P Anuradha Reddy said the structure may have been part of a private estate and needs to be explored to zero down on its exact age. City historian and author   said the structure should be protected from vandalism. The area was under the rule of the Qutub Shahis before it fell into the hands of the Moghuls and Asaf Jahis. Earlier, it was under the control of the Kakatiyas.
 
