BHOPAL: In a passionate appeal to Union minister for external affairs  , a middle-aged Indian woman married in   has sought her help to facilitate her a visa to visit to India.

 In a six minute WhatsApp message sent to her younger sister, who lives in   district of Madhya Pradesh, the woman  , who now lives in   became emotional while recording her message.
 
 Talking to TOI over phone from Lahore, Gouhar Khan, 38, said, “All my documents are ready but officials in India raise objections leading to denial of visa from Indian embassy in Islamabad.”
 
 “I am daughter of India and how can I be denied a visa. India is my country and I want to visit my country,” she said.
 
 “My brother living in Delhi has completed all the formalities and annexed all the documents demanded by Indian embassy in Pakistan but the visa has been denied.”
 
 In the video message sent to her sister, Gouhar is seen weeping while making an appeal for help to the minister. “Now my father is seriously ill, and I need to visit him urgently. I have not been allowed to visit India for the past 11 years. Please help me get a visit visa,” she says.
 
 Covering her face with a pink dupatta, she said, “Born and brought up in India, I did my education in the country but my kismat took me to Pakistan. And, now I am unable to visit India.” People like me should be allowed to visit India at least for a month each year, she said.
 
 Her sister Ashna Khan in Sagar said, “Gouhar got married in 1998 and since then she visited India only thrice. Her husband is a businessman.”
 
 Her father lives in Delhi with her younger brother. Gouhar is one of the ten siblings and except her all others live in India.
 
 “My father needs throat surgery and is serious and Gouhar wants to visit him. Whenever she talks to me she weeps remembering our father,” Ashna said.
 
 Gouhar was married in Jamnaka city of Aligarh to a family whose roots are also in India.
 
 Family of her father-in-law still lives in Aligarh, she said.
 
 
