JAIPUR: The jail has always been crucial to larger-than-life Bollywood narratives and an integral part of potboilers. 

 The ‘Tiger’ is no stranger to the ‘territory’ and has spent 14 days in three stays previously in Jodhpur central jail. He made a quiet entry inside the jail after conviction on Thursday.
 
 In the process, he became Qaidi No. 106 and has the rape-accused, self-styled godman Asaram Bapu, as his neighbour, with only the wall separating the two.
 
 Senior officers of the Jodhpur jail told TOI that Khan would be kept isolated from other prisoners, with extra security at his new address at Ward No. 2 of the jail.
 
 “He has been housed alone in a 10x10 room in Ward No. 2,” said DIG (jail) Vikram Singh, who is also the jail superintendent, over the phone from Jodhpur.
 
 “We asked him if he was feeling low or depressed and whether he needed any medicines. But he responded in the negative. He said he was fine. ‘I have been inside this jail before,’ he said reassuringly. Later, he requested us to allow his night dress, toothbrush, undergarments inside the jail,” Singh said.
 
 As soon as he entered the jail, Khan was hounded by some young home guards with requests for autographs and pictures. But he politely turned them down with folded hands. “He appeared shocked,” said a home guard.
 
 The Bollywood star will be served the regular dinner cooked for all inmates of the jail, including Shambu Lal Raigar, the infamous hate-killer of Rajsamand; and others such as  , the former   and an accused in the murder of A N M  .
 
 “We have ‘channe ki dal’, ‘patta gobi sabzi’ and ‘chappati’ for inmates. Salman is yet to have his dinner. He will be served in his ward,” said Singh.
 
 On Khan’s security inside the jail that also houses Lawrence Bishnoi, a gangster who had threatened to kill the actor, and some of his men, the officer said, “Adequate arrangements have been made for in the jail. Since he is a public figure, he can’t be put in barracks with common undertrials and convicts. He is being kept in isolation and separate from the other inmates,” the officer said.
 
 
