Kota: Chief minister Vasundhara Raje on Sunday called for 10 to 15 years of rule for total development in the state as five years were insufficient to take the developmental projects and schemes to every nook and corner. 

 Raje was speaking as chief guest at the 11th convention of Akhil Bhartiya Kirad Kshtriya Mahasabha Maha adhiveshan, which was presided over by Madhya Pradesh CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan. Prior to this, Chouhan inaugurated Dharnidhar Bhawan at Dharnidhar garden in Rangbadi area of   city. 
 
 Five years of rule is not sufficient to take the developmental projects and schemes to every nook and corner, CM Raje said, claiming if one wanted to see total change in the state, it requires at least 10 to 15 years of rule as in Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh.
 
 “My government inherited a huge debt of Rs 3,000 to 35,000 lakh crore but through skilful use and management of resources in last four-and-a-half years we have ushered the state to development and progress while relieving the farmers from debt,’’ she said.
 
 The state government has given about Rs 62,000 crore as crop loan to farmers till Feb 15 and by the end of this year crop loan would reach about Rs 80,000 crore, Raje claimed.
 
 Interest rate on crop loan has also been reduced to 5.5% from earlier 12%.
 
 Moreover, Rajasthan is now a Lagaan-free state, she added.
 
 For the relief of farmers, state government has set up Rajasthan State Agriculture Loan Relief Commission, Raje said, adding a committee chaired by Gulabchand Kataria has also been set up that would in next one month announce measures to give farmers relief from loan. 
 
 Shivraj Singh Chouhan while addressing the gathering recounted his journey as a schoolboy to politician. His mother inspired him to do something different in life in his early childhood and the same inspiration led him to work differently for society, Chouhan said.
 
 “If one really wants to progress in life, one must develop abilities and capacities”, Chouhan said, claiming nothing can be achieved without striving and struggling.
 
 “We are not alive to raise population on earth but to do something for humanity and society,” added Chouhan.
 
 Referring to Vasundhara Raje as his sister, Chouhan said Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan are closely associated with each other.
 
 
