GURUGRAM: Parminder Dhull, the INLD MLA from Julana, on March 6, raised a ruckus in the Assembly, questioning the alarming rise in number of deaths due to   in his constituency, and by association the state, forcing Haryana health minister Anil Vij to present state-wide figures in the Assembly the next day. The figures are alarming.

 In the past three years, Gurugram district, among the least affected, saw 468 people die of cancer. Yet, the cancer wing at the   has been inoperative for two years. Patients diagnosed at government hospitals are referred to the government hospital in Rohtak for treatment.
 
 The health department’s numbers show 11,754 people died of cancer in Haryana between 2015 and 2017. The figures for Gurugram are 149 deaths in 2015, 180 in 2016 and 139 in 2017. But at the   of Gurugram’s General Hospital in Civil Lines, instruments are rusting, and some have already become unusable. Meanwhile, the cancer ward has been converted into a surgery ward.
 
 The 18-bed cancer ward at the hospital was launched in November 2006 — a first for a government hospital in the state — at a cost of Rs 40 lakh. At the time, around 50 patients battling cancer used to come for consultation every day, including patients from other states like Punjab and Rajasthan. Between 2007 and 2015, 365 cancer patients were operated upon.
 
 Cancer specialist Dr   who was earlier posted here, said a majority of Gurugram’s patients suffered from breast, head and neck cancers. At least two dozen patients underwent surgery every month. “Most are diagnosed at a late stage. If treatment is provided at the right time, least 30% people can survive. Many patients need specialised surgery to remove the cancerous part, which does the trick,” said Dr Bhanot.
 
 Two years ago in April 2016, the district’s sole cancer surgeon took voluntarily retirement. Since then, the post has been lying vacant. Meanwhile, Gurugram patients who are diagnosed in government health facilities are referred to Pandit Bhagwat Dayal Sharma Post Graduate Institute of Medical Sciences (PGIMS), Rohtak. 
 
 However, there are many who are too ill or weak from chemotherapy to undertake the 100km journey. They end up in private hospitals or stop treatment when they can no longer afford the expenses. Notably, Fine Needle Aspiration Cytology (FNAC), biopsy and pap smear for early detection of cancer, are performed free of cost at government hospitals in Haryana.
 
 The district health department says they are working towards re-establishing the cancer wing. 
 
 “Dr  , a government surgeon from Gurugram, has now been sent to Rohtak to receive training in cancer surgeries and treatment. He is expected to join the General Hospital in mid-April, after a six-month-long training. Also, we’re providing free bus passes to cancer patients, so they can travel to Rohtak for treatment,” said Dr B K Rajora, chief medical officer, Gurugram.
 
 However, health experts say it’ll be an uphill task reestablishing the cancer ward, as the existing equipment will have become too old to be used, what with the wing no longer being used for cancer treatment. Infrastructure will have to be refreshed after the doctor returns from training, and the entire process will take a few months at least.
 
 
