Indu Nagar’, extending over 300 acres and located 5km away from Ooty, was always considered the pride of Ooty. Besides the massive film and X-ray manufacturing unit (HPF),   housed over 500 staff quarters, Kendya Vidyalaya School and a VIP guest house. With the unit, which manufactured ‘INDU’ brand of films and X-rays, being closed, Indu Nagar has been reduced to a mere locality now.

 Wednesday was a doomsday
 
 for the remaining 167 employees of HPF.
 
 General secretary of employees union (CITU) Jayaprakash told TOI: "It was a shock for us when we saw the closure notice displayed in the factory today. The government while closing the PSU unit - a one of its kind, could have considered on humanitarian ground to relieve us on date." He added, "Relieving us as on June 30, 2016 was a shock to us."
 
 According to him, salary was paid to the employees till December 2016. Now the salary for six months from July to December 2016 was deducted from their VRS benefit. "So we are deprived of salary from July 2016 till date. It is rarest of rare kind in the history
 
 of India."
 
 The employees of HPF never saw a wage revision after 1987. VRS was calculated based on 2007 notional pay scale.
 
 General secretary of Officers’ Association of HPF Kumar said, "Many of the officers and employees have been left with empty hands after this ‘forced’ VRS as six months’ salary, advance salary and TDS were deducted from the VRS benefit." He added, "We had won a case in the high court in connection with advance salary deduction. However, the management went for an appeal. And the case is pending in the court."
 
 According to him, employees with over 30 years of service received between Rs 2.5 lakh and Rs 4 lakh as their final benefit.
 
 "Now we cannot search for another job as many of us have crossed 50. And our children are in the mid-level of education. We are going to experience difficult times," said Jayapraksh.
 
 P Subramaniam, who took VRS over a decade ago said, "HPF was once considered as a prestigious PSU of the country. Seeing it reduced to nothing makes me very sad. Surely, our country cannot see another unit of this kind of sophistication in future." He said, "The government could have taken serious initiative to upgrade the technology to keep the unit alive."
 
 
