BENGALURU: The release of Congress’s first list of candidates – expected on Friday – has been put off by a day, in an apparent indication of a tussle within the party on the distribution of tickets. Some reports said senior leaders had also objected to CM   contesting from two constituencies – Chamundeshwari and Badami.

 Siddaramaiah was keen on releasing the list on Friday since he considers 13th an auspicious date for him – he took over as CM on May 13, 2013. He attributed the delay to a lack of consensus in finalising the names of a few candidates. “We will hold another round of meeting on Saturday with senior   leaders and the   ( ) members before releasing the first list,’’ Siddaramaiah told reporters in New Delhi.
 
 His remarks came in the wake of reports that some senior   leaders, including   M Kharge, have objected to the CM’s decision to contest from two constituencies. They are believed to have cited the example of SM Krishna’s disastrous move in 2004 when he opted to contest from Chamarajpet assembly constituency in Bengaluru, leaving Maddur which he had won in 1999 before becoming CM. “It proved to be costly as the JD(S) made the best use of it and won 58 seats then,” a party source quoted senior leaders as saying.
 
 The differences, sources said, forced the party to put off the announcement though the CM was keen on releasing an early list to give candidates an edge over their rivals. A daylong meeting of the CEC, held on Thursday at the residence of UPA convener Sonia Gandhi too remained inconclusive.
 
 Sources in the CM’s Office, however, maintained that it was the party tradition to release the list a day or two after the CEC meeting.
 
 Among the other contentious seats are those of KPCC president G Parmeshwara and minister HC Mahadevappa who is planning to leave his T Narsipura constituency to his son Sunil Bose and opt for another seat, preferably Nanjangud. Party sources also said there was discontent among minority leaders also as the party leadership was considering a change of candidates in some constituencies where the Muslim electorate has a huge presence. “The explanation is that the minorities will be taken care of if Congress returns to office. There is a sense of over-confidence that the votes of minorities will not go to anyone but Congress,” a source said.
 
 
 
