GORAKHPUR: Allegations of EVM tampering against the BJP and the demand to conduct voting using VVPAT or paper trail was put into question on Sunday during the   after scores of VVPAT machines failed in the rural areas. SP alleged that the   did not have to hack EVMs but instead "hacked the administration" and ensured that voting remained low in rural belts where there was support for it. 

 
 
 DM Gorakhpur Rajiv Routela, when contacted, said he was busy and will respond to the allegations later.
 
 “BJP is rattled with the coming together of SP and BSP in this election. Why is it that only machines in the rural areas failed? At one place where a machine had failed six times, I threatened the officer on duty that he would not be allowed to leave if the machine failed again and sure enough, it did not fail,” said Sanjay Nishad, president of the Nishad Party and father of SP’s candidate   
 
  “We will demand a CBI inquiry into these incidents. Weren’t these machines checked before being used,” said Sanjay Nishad, president of the Nishad Party and father of SP’s candidate Pravin Nishad. Pipraich, from where a large number of complaints poured in, has a significantly high population of the Nishad community, the vote of which SP is banking upon to pull off a victory against BJP. Support from BSP, whose Dalit votebank is also concentrated in the rural belts, was also expected to push SP’s vote share up.
 
 
 At Sandar Khurd in Pipraich, where the VVPAT machine stopped for more than an hour, the officer on duty forced voters to stay back so that they could cast their votes once the machine had been replaced. Khurshid Ansari, who was trying to cast his vote when the machine malfunctioned, said that it started showing an error and did not register his vote.
 
 “I have been waiting for more than an hour to explain to senior officials what happened when this machine stopped working,” he said. At the next village, Pokhar Bhinda, about 20 men and women waited in the sun as the machine there too had stopped working.
 
