MEERUT: Confronted with a growing number of cyber crimes, UP police are planning to revamp the cyber cell wing. According to sources, a fund of Rs 5 crore has been released to improve the infrastructure of the department.
 
 With as many as 2,639 cases, Uttar Pradesh had recorded the highest number of cyber crimes in the country, according to the NCRB data of 2017. The crimes saw an alarming jump of 34% from the previous year.
  
 Close to 130 candidates from the police force have been interviewed and shortlisted for undergoing a specialised training, which will be imparted by central agencies like the   on a regular basis. Apart from the technical expertise, now the department is also planning to ensure a retention period for the cops deployed in the   wing. “Earlier, cops who underwent training were deployed in the field without their skills being put to test. The department is now planning a fixed retention period for sleuths in cyber crime wing after they undergo the training,” said  .
  
 “The new wing will be supervised by an officer of the rank of inspector general of police (IGP) and an officer of the rank of superintendent of police (SP) in the cyber police stations,” said  , PRO to the DGP.
  
 “In most cyber fraud cases, the victim, the perpetrator and the middleman are traced to different locations, which necessitates the presence of a nodal body that can help in coordination,” a senior STF sleuth with the cyber crime division said.
  
 As of now, there are two cyber police stations active in the state, one in Noida and the other in Lucknow. Apart from this, cyber crime cells in the office of deputy inspector general of police (DIG) provide technical assistance to other smaller cyber cells in the rest of the state. The cyber cells in almost every district of the state have consistently been plagued by a resource crunch, delaying the quick response time (QRT) of the department in such cases.
  
 According to officials, with the proliferation of internet and Seoul media in the remotest corners of the country, cyber frauds have become very common, and are fast emerging as an organized network. This has increased the likelihood of people falling into cyber traps. “Jaamtara district in the Naxal-infested Jharkhand is home to rackets that have been running online fraud cases in the most organised manner. We had little success in joint operations of Delhi police and UP STF but that has hardly been a deterrent," an STF sleuth in Lucknow said.
