LUCKNOW: Despite the farm   being launched by   government with much fanfare soon after assuming power, only over half of the total amount sanctioned for it in its first budget has in fact been disbursed to farmers under the flagship scheme. 

 Farm loan waiver was one of the key poll promises of   in 2017 assembly elections. According to records tabled in UP legislative council in response to a query from SP legislator   on Tuesday, the government has disclosed that it disbursed Rs 20,600 crores of the total Rs 36,000 crores sanctioned for the scheme, which works out to 57%.
 
 Records show that the government could reach out to about 34 lakh farmers even though 86 lakh small and marginal farmers were proposed to be covered under the scheme. And in the parched   region, infamous for farmers' suicides, only 2.5 lakh farmers benefited from loan waiver of Rs 1,545 crores.
 
 The revelation comes months after reports of farmers getting loan waivers of just 19 paise had put question marks on the scheme. Official sources in the state agriculture department said that the scheme essentially covered only crop loans taken by small and marginal farmers up to Rs 1 lakh by March 31, 2016.
 
 "A number of conditions, including farmers having Aadhar card, possession of agricultural land in same district and quantum of loan had to be considered. The checks were designed to ensure that only genuine farmers benefited from the scheme," said an official.
 
 Sources said that the loans declared as non-performing assets (NPAs) by banks also posed a serious challenge for the waiver scheme. In October last year, the state cabinet gave its nod to clearance of NPA loans to the tune of over Rs 6,000 crores to give relief to around 16 lakh farmers in debt. Agriculture minister Surya Pratap Shahi said on the floor of the House that the scheme was only for the loans taken 'only for crops'. He said that the state government was committed to giving benefit of loan waiver to farmers and had been working in good intentions.
 
 
