CHANDIGARH: The injury suffered by a female midday meal (MDM) worker after a pressure   exploded in the MDM kitchen of Government Model Senior Secondary School, Sector 44, Chandigarh on February 8, has once again brought into focus the safety of MDM workers.

 They prepare food for students but each MDM worker is paid a meagre amount of Rs 2,600. They are also deprived of any proper insurance plan, which has become a necessity following the incident.
 
  “These people not only cook food in huge quantity but also carry it to different floors of the schools. The kitchens where they work have many cylinders and therefore their lives are always at risk. Almost 18 workers’ lives were at stake when the incident occurred. Workers were prompt to turn down the regulators and lock the room with other cylinders. But it has left them with a sense of fear,” said school principal Asha Rani.
 
 An MDM worker from the same school, requesting anonymity, said, “We are only paid Rs 2,600. This is not even enough to pay the room rent. This incident has scared us and makes us wonder whether it is justified to risk our life for this amount of money.”
 
 Various teachers’ unions have also come out in support of the MDM workers.  , president Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan Teachers Welfare Association, said, “They must be provided healthcare insurance so that in case of any mishap at the workplace, they do not have to suffer.”
 
 Swarn Singh Kamboj, president, UT cadre educational employees union, said, “We have been raising this issue with the former education secretary but no solution has been found. This accident should act as an eye-opener for the department.”  , chairman, united front of government teachers, UT, said, “We will be taking up this issue with the education department. The director, school education, is on leave this week. We will meet him on Monday.”
 
 Meanwhile,   secretary BL Sharma, said, “We can consider insurance aspect keeping in mind the nature of their job. The matter needs examination. These are part-time employees but since they work for Chandigarh administration, I will look into the matter.”
 
 
