PUDUCHERRY:   MLAs V Saminathan, K G Shankar and S Selvaganapathy, whose nominations by Lieutenant Governor   to the legislative assembly of the Union territory of   were upheld by the Madras high court last week, were denied entry into the House on Monday after Speaker   maintained that their nominations were not valid.

 The trio who reached the assembly on Monday morning to participate in the budget session were prevented by the security personnel at the main gate. Their attempts to gain entry by producing the high court order upholding their nomination turned futile as security personnel categorically said they were executing the direction of the speaker.
 
 The three MLAs squatted on the floor in front of the gate braving the heat and staged a silent protest. They carried a placard demanding that the Puducherry government honour the high court’s verdict. Within a few minutes, Shankar swooned. He was rushed to the Indira Gandhi Government General Hospital and Postgraduate Research Institute.
 
 Vaithilingam on Sunday said there would be no change in his earlier decision not to recognise their nomination. 
 
 The Madras high court on March 22 upheld their nomination after a prolonged confrontation between the lieutenant governor and the Congress government headed by V Narayansamy, a tussle that had precipitated a minor constitutional crisis.
 
 In a terse two-page letter dated March 25 and addressed to the three MLAs, Puducherry legislative assembly secretary A Vincent Rayar conveyed to them the decision of the speaker.
 
 Rayar’s letter “reproduced” Vaithilingam’s decision that he was “carefully scrutinising” the high court order with legal experts and would give his decision soon. “Until then, there will be no change in my earlier decision (dated November 12, 2017) in this matter,” said Vaithilingam.
 
 He was neither heard nor made a party in the writ petition, Vaithilingam said. “The principles of natural justice have not been followed. The order of the honourable high court has been passed without hearing me. As such, there is infirmity and lack of constitutional clarity in the order of honourable high court,” he said.
 
 In an order dated November 12, 2017, Vaithilingam said the legislative assembly would not recognise the nomination of the three MLAs as members. He said their nomination was made by “an incompetent authority and without jurisdiction and hence void.” 
 
 Bedi administered the oath of office and secrecy to three   at Raj Nivas in June last year.
 
 
