MANGALURU: Minister for food and civil supplies U T   urged party   not to get carried away by statements being made by BJP leaders on Sunday.

 His advice followed a statement by Ravi Kumar, general secretary of the BJP, who had on Saturday told a gathering in Bengaluru that Khader and B Ramanath Rai, Dakshina Kannada district minister, were no less than terrorists.
 
 Khader said the BJP workers were trying to provoke block-level   workers, so that they get carried away and do something, which can earn the BJP political mileage. “Since the saffron party has no issue to flag against the Congress, they are resorting to such gimmicks,” he said, adding he doesn’t want to attach any importance to them.
 
 He said the BJP may show Congress leaders in bad light on social media as well. He cautioned booth-level workers to steer clear from controversies. Making a veiled reference to Kumar, Khader said a few leaders in the BJP had lost their mental balance.
 
 Questioning the patriotism of the BJP leaders, he asked why a party which has always been emphasizing on its patriotism had allied with separatist parties such as the People’s Democratic Party in Jammu and Kashmir, Bodoland People’s Front in Assam, National Democratic Progressive Party in Nagaland and Indigenous People’s Front of Tripura in Tripura.
 
 “If the BJP is so nationalist, let it step down from power in all those states where it has allied with separatist powers,” he challenged.
 
 Changes in Indira Canteen
 
 Khader said he had visited an Indira Canteen outlet and found out that the beneficiaries sought some changes in the menu. He said he had taken cognizance of the changes suggested and would take a decision during the meeting to be convened on Wednesday. The canteen serves white rice, curd and puliyogare for lunch. He said while white rice was essential because of the presence of migrant workers from North Karnataka, boiled rice will also be introduced, as its the staple food of the people here. He said he was also considering providing pickle, as people wanted it with curd rice.
 
 Khader said a committee will be formed to oversee the efficient functioning of Indira Canteens. The structure of this committee is yet to be formed, he added.
 
 
