PATIALA: An assistant sub-inspector ( ) here has been suspended for negligence in duty on the orders of Ambala superintendent of police (SP)  . 

 The move has been taken after a person identified as Randhir Singh (40) of Mahuwa Kheri village was murdered by three to four persons at 8.30am on Sunday. 
 
 The deceased, Randhir, was on his way home in his car when the incident took place. He had gone to drop his wife and children to Radha Swami Satsang Bhawan in the district. 
 
 In 2013, one of Randhir's friends (Gurdeep) was murdered at Mahuwa Kheri village. Randhir was one of the main witnesses in that case. 
 
 The parents of the deceased were seen blaming the police for negligence as Randhir was receiving threats from some unknown persons. Randhir had also filed complaints in this regard at Naraingarh police station.
 
 The parents of Randhir demanded the registration of a case against ASI Shyamlal for negligent behaviour. The parents said if Shyamlal would have acted timely on the complaint of Randhir and given him police protection, he would not have lost his life.
 
 "Randhir also used to carry a licenced weapon with him, but on the day of the attack, he did not get any chance to use his weapon on the attackers," the SP said. 
 
 On the complaint of Pooran Chand, uncle of Randhir Singh, the police have registered a case against the accused Mohit and Rajwinder, who are lodged in Yamunanagar jail in relation to Gurdeep murder case, under section 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon), 149 (every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence), 302 (punishment for murder) and 303 (punishment for murder by life-convict) of the Indian Penal Code. 
 
 The cops have also booked some other unidentified persons in this regard.
 
 The investigation of the case has been handed over to the crime branch I and II teams of Naraingarh police station. 
 
 Inspector Narendra, head of crime branch I team, said, "We have constituted six teams to nab the culprits and our teams are raiding suspected locations in the state. The teams are already deployed to track the murderers, we have identified almost every member of the gang which has killed Randhir."
 
 "The crime branch teams have been put on duty in this case and ASI Shyamlal of Naraingarh police station has been suspended for negligence in duty. 
 
 "Our teams are working hard to arrest the accused and they will be taken into custody soon. We suspect role of inmates in Randhir's murder, as the accused of Gurdeep murder case had an old rivalry with Randhir, who was prime witness in Gurdeep's murder case," the SP said.
 
 
