COIMBATORE: Sulur has witnessed two break-ins in as many days with unidentified miscreants targeting a wholesale steel shop at Kannampalayam area on Monday night and a house at   on Sunday night.

 While miscreants took away Rs 2.50 lakh from the shop Premier Steel, the house was looted of gold ornaments weighing 25 sovereigns, a television and a microwave oven.
 
 According to police, the wholesale steel shop belonged to M Jayaraj, 58, of Chinthamanipudhur. On Monday night, Jayaraj reportedly shut the shop around 7pm and left for his house. “When he came to the shop on Tuesday morning, he found that the lock was broken open. As he entered inside, he found that Rs 2.50 lakh was missing from the locker, which was opened using its key,” an investigating official told TOI.
 
 Jayaraj immediately informed the police, who pressed fingerprint experts and a dog squad into service. The police suspect that the theft might have taken place when the security guard fell asleep. Also, the locker was not broken open. 
 
 “The robber took the key from a table draw and used it to open the locker. The CCTV camera at the shop was non-functional and we are yet to get any lead,” the investigating official said. The shop, the official said, has in total 9 employees.
 
 The house at Kangeyampalayam was, meanwhile, burgled when its owner  , 65, a retired official, had gone to his native village at   on Sunday. “When he returned on Monday morning, he found that the front door was broken open and gold ornaments weighing 25 sovereigns, television and a microwave oven were missing from the house,” a police official said. 
 
 In both the cases, victims have lodged their complaints with the Sulur police station. Superintendent of Police Paa Murthy said they had formed special teams to nab burglars. “Twenty days ago, we nabbed a big gang and recovered 57 sovereigns gold. We are confident that we can solve these cases as well at the earliest. We have beat officers who are taking several preventive measures,” he said.
 
 
