KOLKATA: Transparency of hospital bills remains a contentious issue a year after a payment dispute shook the city’s private health sector and led to the formation of the West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission.

 Though some patients’ families alleged they were sprung with an astronomical bill, several leading private hospitals claimed they would regularly communicate with the families about amounts, but the latter often refused to collect updates and denied payment when they ran out of funds. Every hospitalization is now followed by a clinical and financial counselling session where patients’ kin are reportedly informed about the possible expenditure. A sudden surge in bills, like the one which allegedly led to a patient being detained for weeks due to nonpayment at a private hospital, had effectively been ruled out, hospitals claimed though some admitted to occasional lapses.
 
  
 A south Kolkata private hospital, which faced several ransacks in the past year, said they sent patient parties bill updates every alternate day. “We hold a counselling session during admission, especially if it is a critical case that might need prolonged hospitalization. So, patients’ families are aware of the possible cost. But some still don’t tell us about their financial constraints before discharge. We are forced to forego a major part of the bill that made us lose over a crore in the past year,” said a hospital representative.
 
  claimed regular bill updates got them fewer complaints. “None can say our bill has shot up overnight or without reason. We provide regular, itemized updates and they can seek explanation. This is preceded by a financial counselling. It has helped eliminate allegations of inflated billing, though a few exceptions are there,” said Alok Roy, chairperson, Medica.
 
 Ruby General Hospital, too, claimed to provides regular bill updates. “Accident victims often need long hospitalization and multiple surgeries. So, the cost escalates. It is imperative to keep patient parties abreast of the day-to-day bill. We also insist on regular payments so that families find it easier to arrange for money and know where they stand. A huge bill at the time of discharge often turns unmanageable,” said Subhasish Dutta of Ruby, adding the hospital has medical boards for critical cases to interact with families.
 
 At  , patients receive an update every three days with the option of clearing dues. But payment is not a must before discharge. Counselling and medical boards have made a difference at AMRI, said CEO  . “Emergency cases are often unpredictable. If there is a resource constraint and it’s possible to move the patient, we recommend a shift. There have been cases where we have treated people despite realizing the bill may not be paid in full,” said Barua.
 
 A hospital CEO pointed out no hospital can deny families regular, itemized bill updates.
 
 
