NAGPUR: Shouting aloud the slogan ‘I support, you support, we all support the Right to Write’, Eminence Arts and Education Pvt. Ltd. (EAEPL) organized world’s first global   drive titled ‘Right to Write’ on January 23 in which people from all corners of the world participated. With nearly 1.5 lakh people participating in this online campaign, it was listed in the Golden Book of Records. Jaishree  , the managing director of EAEPL conceptualized the drive.

 On the day of the drive, everyone in support of this social cause, regardless of their age, wrote minimum 50 and maximum 100 words in any language and font, clicked their pictures or took live videos while writing and posted it on the official Facebook page of the campaign — Right To Write. 
 
 “It’s sad when directors and principals of the schools say that there’s no time for handwriting owing to the immense academic pressure. The world truly is turning into a massive digital biosphere which can soon eradicate the habit or writing which makes the situation very alarming thereby making the drive even more significant,” said Chhabrani while speaking to TOI.“The campaign had started since September and people have already started posting pictures. Various schools, colleges and organizations tied up with the event which will be a global cause to spread the vision and mission of retaining the handwriting skills on this planet for the generations to come,” she said.
 
 Jaishree has written several volumes of handwriting books and the books are already being used to master the skills by thousands of students all across. With this event she wished to kindle an awareness drive about the importance of handwriting.
 
 Golden Book of Records covered the entire event and Eminence was successfully listed with a global record of ‘Largest handwriting awareness online campaign (24hrs)’. Union minister   and mayor   also supported the drive.
 
 Diffusion Engineers ltd. were the brand sponsors and are extended their support to help reach out to the less fortunate making them a proud participant of this world event by gifting them Eminence Handwriting Books. Crossword book store Nagpur and   also hosted the event at their store.   ‘Grady International’s entire national and international network extended their entire support for this wonderful initiative. Special mention was made for   from Malta who also immensely supported the drive.
 
 
