GANDHINAGAR: After the Comptroller and Auditor General ( ) of India’s observations about massive losses to the state exchequer due to irregularities in calculation and use of the   (  or ASR rates) for land, the BJP-led state government has initiated a review of jantri rates, which have not been revised since 2011.

 The CAG report submitted in March 2018 observed that, “According to the instruction from the   high court, the government has planned an annual review of actual market rates of related areas through surveys and various tools, to decided what the annual statement of rates should be for a land prices in a particular year and by extension for revenue through registration charges and stamp duty. To help those connected to them, the government of Gujarat failed to apply annual statement of rates from 2012 to 2017. Due to this non-compliance with the annual statement of rates, the government of Gujarat has lost a huge sum of money (Rs 25,000 crore according to the Congress’s claim).”
 
 Kaushik Patel, the state revenue minister, said, “The government has initiated the process of reviewing jantri rates and all discrepancies will be corrected. The government received representations from various stakeholders and the review process will consider all such suggestions.”
 
 PAC recommendation to form jantri authority ignored
 
 The public accounts committee (PAC) of the state assembly, in its report submitted in March 2016, had criticized the state government for its jantri policy and recommended forming a platform (a cell or authority) for citizens to raise grievances about irrationally high or low rates. The state revenue department has not yet acted on the recommendation.
 
 The PAC also commented that jantri rates were abnormally high in certain areas and very low in others.
 
 The PAC report noted that, “The committee suggested in its first report to establish a cell or an authority to decide jantri rates, like in Maharashtra. The authority will decide jantri rates from village to district level, by consulting experts, local traders, local trade associations, leading citizens, public representatives, people’s groups etc. The jantri rates will be reviewed every year. At present there is no authority where people can register grievances about jantri rates in their areas.”
 
 
