GURUGRAM:   is the richest corporation in the state but still does not have its own office building till date. Formed in the year 2008, the corporation has been planning to get its own office for long time but failed to get one due to various reasons.

 Since 2015, the corporation is functioning out of a leased building in Sector 34.
 
 In 2011, the corporation had finalised the plan of a new office building that was supposed to spread over an area of 12 acres in Sector 32 but it got stuck in a litigation that was pending in the   and Haryana high court.
 
 According to the initial plan, the headquarters was supposed to come up in Silokhra village, which is very close to the Delhi-Gurugram expressway. The corporation had planned a multilevel building, which was to be constructed by any private company and use half of the space. But the plan did not take off as it was stuck in Chandigarh.
 
 In July 2013, the MCG commissioner wrote to the urban local bodies department to transfer the Silokhera land to the corporation for the construction of office as various departments under MCG were operating from different locations which caused lot of inconvenience to the residents.
 
 By December 2013, the Silokhera plan was kept on hold and the chief town planner directed the chief engineer to review possibility of constructing office on   land and prepare a report in this regard.
 
 In May 2014, the MCG commissioner revived Silokhera plan and wrote a reminder letter to director of ULB department to transfer the land to MCG but it did not happen.
 
 Recently the former MCG commissioner V Umashankar shortlisted a site near Vyapar Sadan for building its new office and the process reached upto the design stage. But later the corporation started looking for alternative sites located closer to the heart of the city and more accessible for the residents.
 
 Sudhir Chauhan, senior town planner of MCG said the proposal for new office on 7-acre land near Vyapar Sadan on   has been sent to the engineering wing and it is working on it. 
 
 A senior MCG official said the corporation has enough land bank and the budget isn’t a problem but it is still functioning from a rented office and paying Rs 2.5 crore annually for the premises.
 
 Anand Mohan Sharan, principal secretary ULB said the department has not received any proposal and once it is received, the necessary action will be taken. The municipal corporation of Gurugram needs its own office for effective functioning, he added.
 
 Apart from this, the previous commissioners have also raised the issue about accommodation to the MCG employees but it did not gain support from the government. 
 
 “There is acute shortage of accommodation for employees of MCG, this affects the morale and working of staffs it is most motivating factor for government employees”said a former MCG commissioner. The MCG had demanded approval for multi-storey houses on Silokhera land. 
 
 
