Legend has it that Vasco Da Gama, just before returning to Portugal in 1499, had asked the   ruler of Kozhikode if he could take a pepper stalk with him. “You can take our pepper but you cannot take our rain,” said the astute Zamorin, well aware of the importance of the twin monsoons in Kerala to the crop and also the prevalent temperate climate of Europe.

 Such was the attention paid to   patterns and climatic conditions by Malayalis in the past. Since Cyclone   hit the Indian peninsula the past November, there seems to be a renewed interest in terms of weather among those in the State. We gauge if weather has indeed become a more vital part of our daily lives.
 
 
 
 Mahesh Palawat, chief meteorologist of the country’s premier private weather services company, agrees. “Right now, there are extreme weather variations that affect people on a daily basis,” he says. “People now have access to weather apps and routinely check what the weather would be like for the entire day. Most importantly, the accuracy of weather prediction has increased over the years and that’s what has led to this shift in mindset.”
 
 For 32-year-old digital consultant Harikrishnan P, checking the weather has become a routine affair at Thiruvananthapuram. “You have the Facebook weather app and most phones show what the day would be like by default,” he says. “It helps a lot because I know what footwear to opt for and if I should carry an umbrella.”
 
 However, KG Thara, former head of Disaster Management Centre, says that though weather information is readily available, people who actively seek it are still a minority. “Even they check the conditions only for personal purposes – as in when they plan a trip or a function. It’s not like they use the information to go out of their way to warn others of danger,” she says. “When that too happens, the change would be complete.”
 
 
 
 
 The seasons are an indispensable part of Kerala’s culture and lifestyle, so much that its festivals as well as agriculture were entirely dependent on it. Abhilash S, assistant professor, Atmospheric Sciences Dept, CUSAT, says, “The njattuvela cycle of cultivating different crops, factoring in the climate changes and its impact is the prime example. In Kerala, especially, our lifestyle has been heavily influenced by the monsoon.  , which is essentially a harvest festival, is celebrated right after the monsoon.”
 
 Similarly, all the temple and church festivals are held from February to April and winds up just before the arrival of monsoon. “There’s this saying that fireworks bring rain. That’s because the chemicals used aid in the condensation of clouds and eventually lead to rain.”
 
 However, blindly following these traditions, without accounting for climate change, can also cause more harm, says a highly placed official from State Disaster Management Authority, on condition of anonymity. “Take the Thrissur Pooram for instance. It has always been held in the peak of summer. However, 50-60 years ago, only about 20,000 people would congregate but now you have close to a million people. The heat becomes intolerable for even the animals on the ground,” the official says.
 
  The rate of urbanisation in Kerala, which is five times the global average, has also made managing the upshots of changing weather difficult. “Earlier, we had paddy fields, open spaces, lakes, ponds and wells that could accumulate the water from the floods,” says Thara. “However, now flooding in urban spaces due to concrete structures and roads have become routine. The authorities must account for the climate changes to make cities safe.”
 
  
 
 
  Since Ockhi in November, the Arabian sea has seen three more depressions, the latest leading to Cyclone  . “If this pattern had occurred in the Bay of Bengal, there would have been nothing to worry about. However, it happening in the Arabian Sea is an anomaly because of the climate change,” says the SDMA official.
 
 However, the source asks people not to worry about the varying weather. “We now have technology that can predict hyperlocal weather patterns. We can predict the time, intensity and location through satellite imagery as well as updated weather models,” the official explains. “Weather updates are disseminated frequently and people are also told what to do and not during certain situations, which have helped.”
 
 However, the official warns that forecasting or nowcasting weather – especially of tropical zones that are more prone to changes – is extremely tough despite the advancement in meteorology. “Two years ago in Maryland, USA, a sudden depression had developed, and it rained continuously for two hours. Within six hours, the entire city was flooded,” the source says.
 
  That said, even academically there is a rise in interest. Abhilash says, “In the past, only Andhra university and CUSAT had department for atmospheric sciences. Now, every major institution has a department of climatology or oceanography or meteorology. This highlights the importance that weather has assumed in our day-to-day lives.”
 
