GREATER NOIDA: The Yogi Aditya Nath-led government’s decision to allot   to the   in   in the recent   has ignited speculation that the facility could soon be recognised by the Medical Council of India.

 Conceived by the Mayawati government, the institute was completed during the   regime in April 2013 with a budget of Rs 533 crore. An additional amount of about Rs 227 crore was spent on developing medical infrastructure.
 
 However, classes are yet to start to start in the first medical college of the state in the absence of recognition from the  . The institute lacks adequate number of doctors and the procurement of necessary equipment has been slow, officials said.
 
 An MCI team had visited the   in November last year and another visit is slated later this month.
 
 “We hope to get the recognition this time. In that case, we should be able to start classes from September,” said Sangita Aneja, the director of the institute.
 
 Officials, however, said getting the MCI recognition might be easier said than done, given that the 500-bed hospital has only 30% occupancy at the moment owing to the lack of infrastructure. 
 
 As of now, the hospital provides only regular OPD services in around 10 departments, including gynaecology, pathology, biochemistry and microbiology. Only the departments of ophthalmology, gynaecology, surgery, ENT, orthopaedics, medicine and pediatrics are admitting patients on a regular basis.
 
 While officials termed them “teetering problems”, they admitted it had taken the institute long to develop the medical infrastructure, such as a fully operational intensive care unit, which made it difficult to treat specialised cases.
 
 “There have been teetering problems, but you cannot compare a baby to an adult. We are still a new institution,” Aneja said.
 
 While the hospital was envisaged with 150 ICU beds, 300 doctors, 250 nurses, 450 pharmacists and about 1,000 faculty members, it cannot start classes for medical students until the MCI approves it.
 
 Some officials pointed out that the allotment of 100 seats would work only if the MCI found the current faculty at the institute on a par with that in other medical colleges.
 
 “We know it has taken time in making all the departments and the ICU fully functional. But we are working hard on this,” the director said, adding that the state government’s allotment of seats would definitely boost the institute’s prospects for the MCI recognition. 
 
 
