THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The future of   depends on how successfully the God’s own Country can penetrate into the emerging source markets in   including China, Japan and Korea, said United Nations World Tourism Organisation’s ( ) Asia/Pacific regional director  .

 Unfortunately, Kerala, the shining success story of India Tourism in the conventional source markets in the Europe, is little known among the strong international travellers from these Asian countries. “The major challenge is to diversify your source markets, and when you do that it’s not just about making a policy shift but also a product shift,” Jing told TOI during his visit to the state for attending UNWTO’s annual executive training programme on ‘Tourism Policy and Strategy’.
 
 “I can’t believe why your land is not flooded with Asian tourists, the people from oriental Asia. I have already spoken to Kerala tourism secretary and the director here on conducting some technical seminar to provide information and to chalk out strategies to penetrate these emerging Asian markets,” he added.
 
 While making a policy shift, a major thrust should be on understanding the different tastes of Oriental Asia. “Asian people may not spend their time in a bar sipping a beer. They might be very much into other activities the Europeans might never even think of. The Asian are more active, taking photos and posing for selfies. They finish their meals in half an hour and are always on the run. So you need to fit into their requirements,” Jing pointed out.
 
 In tourism, bilateral political issues are never a big constraint, Jing said. “The real issue is lack of awareness about the destination. Here you have fantastic food, and everything linked to gastronomy will be one of the attractions to any Chinese traveller besides Ayurveda,” he said.
 
 According to Jing, tourists from these markets, especially China, are now travelling to Maldives and  . “People in Maldives never believed that Chinese tourists would come there. They thought that Chinese women were scared of water and that they never preferred a sun tan. Currently, China accounts for 40 percent of international tourists in Maldives.”
 
 ‘Enrich evenings’
 
 Taking a cautious approach on ‘nightlife’ which is being projected as necessary ingredient of a successful tourism destination, the UNWTO regional director said he would rather prefer to stress the need for ‘enriched evenings’. “We need to enrich the activities for tourists in the evenings. And these activities should be linked to cultural performances, showcasing your heritage,” he asserted.
 
 There are many places where monuments are opened during evenings, Jing pointed out. “These evenings should also be linked with gastronomy. It’s about how you entertain tourists in the evenings. We need to respect the local society and should think of enriching evenings with activities based on the particular culture,” he added.
 
