AHMEDABAD: Rajiv Kumar,  , visited Gandhinagar on Sunday morning and conducted a meeting with   and   including chief secretary J N Singh. After taking charge, it was Kumar’s first official visit to the state. He, however, had come earlier as part of delegation for high-speed rail corridor.

 Talking to reporters, Kumar said that one of the issues discussed was minimum support price (MSP) provided to the farmers.
 
 “It has been the central government’s policy to ensure at least cost plus 50 per cent for the farmers. I got to know about the procurement of 8.5 lakh ton groundnut in Gujarat. We are providing choice to every state - they can choose from support price, payment of difference between procurement and market price or the model where traders are incentivized for the procurement. We want to ensure that the farmers get MSPs from this Rabi season and the system functions smoothly from Kharif,” said Kumar.
 
 He added that they are not in favour of a uniform national policy in the matter and have given freedom to the states to choose the right amount to be disbursed at the right time for procurement.
 
 Kumar said that Rupani told him about the state’s demand of setting up Coastal Economic Zone (CEZ) between Kandla and Jamnagar. “The issue was discussed with my predecessor. I have assured him of the support from our side to take the issue to relevant ministries,” he added.
 
 Talking about the current water crisis - which he attributed to about 50 per cent cut in Narmada water supply - Kumar said that he got to know about the state government’s water desalination plant with daily capacity of 100 million litre potable water. He said that he is pushing for such projects in each coastal state.
 
 “While Gujarat ranks high on counts such as industrialization, infrastructure and power, it lags behind in sectors such as healthcare and education. I have been told by the officials that the budget of 2018-19 has increased the allocation. Moreover, the officials have also been asked to focus on issues such as child malnutrition and MMR,” said Kumar.
 
 Kumar said that they would try to increase the allocation for the apprenticeship scheme which has target of providing Rs 1,500 to 1 lakh youths.
 
 
