The   in   is buzzing with aspirants these days. While Open Day sessions at DU see hundreds of aspirants each day, the   Resource Centre wears a desolate look. The centre, not far from the Arts Faculty, is aiming to provide personal counselling sessions to transgender students for the first time. However, there are no aspirants lining up with queries. Three days into the counselling sessions, no student had come at the Transgender   Centre, which is under the Department of Adult Continuing   & Extension.

 
  
  
 
  Rajesh from the department, who has initiated these sessions, tells us, “We have created WhatsApp and FB groups. We have also informed members of the transgender community who work with us about our counselling sessions, but we have only received two calls till now and no aspirant has visited us personally. They hesitate to come out. They have still not found the positive atmosphere in our educational institutions. They either take admission in the open system (SOL) or they withdraw. They say that they do not wish to take admission in the colleges because they do not have transgender-friendly washrooms.”
 
 
  
  
 
 The professor, who works with the community, adds that the department will now work on reaching out to aspirants who hesitate to approach them. “This is a very silent community and it is very difficult to get them out of their comfort zones. We are going to organise a programme for them in   by the end of this week so that they do not have to leave their work and travel to campus for any queries. We will approach them on how to take admission or how to get any problem resolved by our counselling unit. We will have a series of programmes for teachers and students once the admission season is over,” he explains.
 Summing up the idea behind these sessions, the professor concludes, “We are not looking for a magic figure of transgender students in DU, but we are hoping to inform as many people as possible. Humein number pe nahi jana, we should reach out to them so that an enabling environment is created for them.”
 
 
