He was four and a half years old when he debuted on celluloid. Master   was a name that became a familiar name on the credits of films in the late 80s and early 90s. “I got into films by chance. To be frank, it never struck me that I had become so popular even when I was part of some of the biggest films like Gowri Ganesha, Kindari Jogi and Muthina Haara,” shares actor and television personality Anand. 
He confesses that in reality he secretly hoped to be a cricketer. “I had stopped doing films in between to concentrate on studies. When I entered college, I remember my classmates whispering unto themselves about my “star status.” Even then I didn’t actually take it seriously. I was trying to convince my father to let me pursue cricket because I was a huge fan of  . He in turn told me,” Anand, in this country, there are only three careers that can fetch you limelight — politics, acting and sports. You already have made a name in one of them. Why chase something afresh? Continue doing what you’re already good at, that conversation with my father set the tone for my future,” states the actor. 
 It was during college that he once again made his presence felt on the silver screen and was seen in films like Friends, Devaru Varavanu Kotre, Mani, Sajni and Pyaarge Aagbittaite among others. Anand also delved into television in 2010 by directing SSLC Nan Maklu which was followed by   and Robot Family. Then came Bigg Boss. What made Anand enter the show? “I had no clue what it entailed. I had watched a couple of episodes of the Hindi version and through it all, I had only seen them fighting. Meanwhile, in  , the makers of the show had been calling me to be a part of it from season one. I didn’t have any more excuses to give so I said yes when they called me again for Season 3. It was an experience that I can never forget in my life,” avers Anand. He has also won Dancing Stars Season 2, hosted Comedy Khiladigalu and is currently hosting Drama Juniors Season 2.
  But the highlight of his career now is helming a thriller called   for the small screen. “I’ve been associated with comedy all my life. People have this perception that comedians can’t do much else. But I’d like to say that a comedian doesn’t just make people laugh; he has the ability to portray every kind of emotion on screen. That is what I’ve done with Nigooda Rathri. I wanted to show people that I can work on any genre. I’m also playing a cop for the first time and that is being explored in this serial,” says Anand. As for the future, he says it’s all about TRPs and he will go with the flow. “But yes, I’m enjoying helming thrillers and hope to do another soon,” wraps up Anand. 
 
