LUDHIANA: Encroachers in Rajiv Gandhi Colony and Khokha Market in Vishwakarma Colony will be shifted to flats in Mundian and Giaspura, but MC requires around Rs 6.25 crore for the completion of these flats. Deputy commissioner Pradeep Aggarwal, MC commissioner  , and area MLA Sanjay Talwar visited both the sites on Wednesday to observe the condition of the flats. It is in Rajiv Gandhi Colony that MC had tried conducting a demolition drive, but encroachers had allegedly pelted stones on the MC team.

 There are 1,700 flats available in both the locations. Talwar has recommended the shifting of 600 encroachments from Rajiv Gandhi Colony, and 500 encroachments from Vishwakarma Colony, while the rest of the 600 flats have already been allotted by MC. Civic officials claimed some works were still pending at both the locations, and in the absence of funds, they could not complete them.
 
 Talwar said   (Glada) owned prime land in Vishwakarma Colony whose value was around Rs 50 crore. Therefore, Glada has been asked to pay some amount to MC to complete the construction of pending flats, and also construct a few more. He said they had visited the sites, but rehabilitation would take some time, after which MC would be able to conduct a demolition. 
 
 Jaskiran Singh said: “Site visits were planned in Mundian and Giaspura for review of the condition of flats. We require funds for the construction and repair of the flats, and only after that can people be shifted there.” He said they had more than 2,500 flats available in three locations, including about 800 in  .
 
 MLA Sanjay Talwar, top MC officials and others also visited the site where a leisure valley is likely to be developed in 23 acres of land. This leisure valley will be for residents in ward numbers 1, 9, 10, 11, 12, and 13 at a cost of Rs 8 crore. Talwar has recommended the formation of a committee for the development of leisure valley headed by the zonal commissioner of Zone B Poonampreet Kaur. In this committee, the SDM East, MC’s municipal town planner (MTP), superintendent engineer of   (LIT), executive engineer of Building and Roads department, and area councillors will be the members. 
 
 
