Margao: Chairperson of   Municipal   (MMC),   Angle Prabhudessai, on Wednesday said that the   recovery drive initiated by the council has begun to show desired results. Within 50 days of the exercise, MMC netted a revenue of Rs 1.77 cr by way of house tax   and sanitation tax. 

 Prabhudessai told reporters that since December 4, when the drive for revenue recovery commenced, MMC’s coffers have seen a steady flow of revenue. 
 
 Besides, MMC has also succeeded in getting a couple of fuel stations in the city to pay their rentals arrears for the municipality-owned land occupied by them. 
 
 “Following our consistent efforts of engaging the fuel station dealers in a dialogue for the last eight months, we have managed to prevail upon them to pay up their arrears. With this, the total revenue recovery figures have gone up to Rs 2.34 crore,” Prabhudessai said, adding that demand notices have been sent to other fuel stations that have failed to clear their dues. Fuel station rentals will now be increased by 10% annually, she said. MMC will enter into fresh lease agreements with petrol pump dealers, following approval from the directorate of municipal administration. 
 
 Replying to a query, chief officer Johnson Fernandes said that he has set a target of mopping up revenue arrears to the tune of Rs 5 lakh by the end of the financial year. 
 
 “Once that is done, we will be targeting other areas for recovery, like trade tax and rentals,” he said. 
 
 Admitting that the single window system started by MMC has evoked poor response, Prabhudessai said that action would now be taken against those found plying their trade without licence. “We will also work out a mechanism to issue trade licences on as-is-where-is basis on temporarily to help them regularize their trade,” Prabhudessai said. A number of party halls operating in the city will also be targeted by MMC soon to bring them under the trade tax net, she added. 
 
 As regards the GIS survey that is underway in ward number 14 on a pilot basis, Prabhudessai said that nearly 70% of the work is complete and that the survey is likely to be completed by February-end. The data collected in the GIS survey data will be interpolated with GPS mapping that would help determine the exact location of a unit. This would enable MMC to identify establishments functioning without paying house tax or obtaining trade license. 
 
 
