PATIALA: In an attempt to make crop residue management and other agro machinery available to state farmers at a click of a button, the state government has decided to launch a mobile app that would help farmers have ready information about the availability of the agro machinery in nearby areas that can be hired for agricultural purposes. 

 Chairman of the   (PPCB) K S   said the availability of agro and residue management machinery and its information was a relevant issue that had been raised by a number of farmers across the state. He said that in the era of mobile apps, where technology has leveraged resources for optimum use, it was a high time that the state introduced this concept in agro machinery also. He said that a need was felt to develop software and undertake data feeding of all available agro machinery in the state so that information becomes available to the user through the process of data mining just at the click of a button.
 
 Pannu said that the   Remote Sensing Centre (PRSC), Ludhiana, had developed such software which was further changed according to requirements by the department of cooperatives. “I learnt that data feeding of agro-machinery available with cooperative societies had started and shortly data related to machines with farmers will also be uploaded on the software.” He said that the app was almost ready and the government was going to launch it soon. It would come in handy for the farmers to arrange agro and other stubble management machines.
 
 Manmohan Kalia, joint director, agriculture, said the department officials and engineers had handed over all data related to agro and crop residue management equipment that was available in the state up to the village level to the PSRC, which would help in providing geospatial availability of the machinery to the state farmers. He said that as for the estimates the department was expecting to upload details about the availability of equipment that can be hired by farmers from time to time. He said that the department was also in touch with the department of cooperatives to club additional data.
 
 
