NAGPUR: To clamp down on illegal hawkers — who evade action by operating at night — the Nagpur city traffic police has decided to launch an anti-encroachment drive. 

 According to a 2016 Nagpur Municipal Corporation survey, around 547 major stretches across the city are encroached upon by hawkers. To make these roads congestion-free,   was supposed to provide hawking zones and non-hawking zones at these stretches. However, the civic body has failed to even create a town vending committee and regulate the hawkers. 
 
 As a result, hawking menace has increased manifold. With no action after 5pm, most of the major roads and footpaths turn into street-food zones and the hawkers who primarily operate at night create hindrance for the pedestrians and motorists. 
 
 “Many citizens complain that after 5pm most footpaths and streets are encroached by illegal food stalls and hawkers. Since there is no NMC staff that time, the hawkers have no deterrent. Currently, NMC takes action against illegal hawkers between 10am and 5pm,” said the official.
 
 The traffic police has received many complaints that these hawkers are hindering the free flow of traffic in several parts of the city. “So, the traffic police has set up a cell to take action against illegal hawkers at night in five zones,” said a senior police official. 
 
 According to police official, recently special squads were formed in all the five traffic zones following a directive by deputy commissioner of police   S. The traffic police will also write to NMC’s enforcement department to provide staff. Every day all squad members will form a team and conduct surprise raids.
 
 Jayesh Bhandarkar, senior inspector of zone-II traffic branch, said, “We have already started initiating action in the evening. On Tuesday, the traffic police personnel from this zone took action against food joints set up on footpaths along Shankar Nagar garden patch, while on Wednesday the eviction drive was launched at Telangkhedi Lake vicinity. 
 
 The officer said citizens can call on 0712-2564550 and also register a complaint on WhatsApp number 9011387100 about such illegal hawkers and food stalls. These complaints will be forwarded to special squads for immediate action.
 
 
