PUNE: A car driver suffered a fractured nose after three persons, allegedly drunk and riding a bike on the wrong side, assaulted him for demanding compensation after their two-wheeler dashed into the vehicle he was driving at   in Undri on May 2 night.

 
 
  
 
 The   police registered the FIR after the injured driver, Dattatraya Gaurishankar   (32), from   was discharged from a private hospital on Sunday. Two suspects,   (20) and Raju Hanumant Jadhav (24), from   were later arrested.
 
 Narone told TOI over phone, “The car belongs to my employer, a retired army colonel. I was on the way to his residence at Mohammadwadi to return the car when the three men riding triple seat on a motorcycle suddenly came from the wrong side and hit the car.”
 
 He said, “I got down from the vehicle and sought explanation for causing damage to the car but the suspects in a fit of anger abused me. One of the suspects pushed me, while the two others brutally attacked me.”
 
 Narone suffered a fractured nose and sustained injury on his face. A fourth person intervened in the dispute.
 
 “I then called my boss and he reached the spot immediately. On finding me bleeding, he got me admitted to a private hospital at Wanowrie.”
 
 Sub-inspector Vivek Padvi of the Kondhwa police said, “Narone had informed the police about the incident on the same day, but his statement could not be recorded because he was not in a position to talk for the fractured nose. We had made an entry about the incident in the station or general diary register. Narone turned up at the Undri chowkey after he was discharged from the hospital.”
 
 Padvi said, “Narone gave the first names of the two suspects and the vehicle registration number of the bike, following which Ashok and Raju — both labourers — were arrested on the charges of voluntarily causing grievous hurt and damaging the vehicle.”
 
 He said, “The suspects told the police that there was no third person involved in the accident. The complainant had wrongly named the third person because a huge mob had gathered at the spot. They have denied of driving the bike in an inebriated state. They claimed that the incident occurred because Narone was allegedly drunk, but there was no evidence in this context,” he added. 
 
 
 
