AJMER:   is a wake-up call for   as they have now swung into action at different places of the district to check illegal  .

 In Roopanagar, a team of police and administration seized domestic cooking gas cylinders from Lucky Dhaba of Sursura. “We are checking each shop for refilled or non-commercial gas cylinders,” said Kartar Singh, a patwari.
 
 In Pisagan block, two cylinders and a burner were seized. The team also rushed when they came to know about refilling of gas cylinders in a house on Beawar Road. It was found that one Ramniwas was refilling cooking gas cylinder in cars. “We seized two cylinders and refilling pump from his house,” added an official.
 
 District collector Gaurav Goyal and police officials on Monday directed officials to check the misuse of domestic gas cylinders in refilling in cars and this should be followed strictly. Goyal directed that this should be taken as a campaign and strict action against those who are refilling and misusing cooking gas must be taken.
 
 He directed officials to form teams to check regularly against misuse of cooking gas and seized the pumps used in refilling. Sub-divisional officials have been instructed that they will form teams under their direction.
 
 Meanwhile, chairman of Rajasthan Revenue Board V Shriniwas who has been appointed to probe the incident has called a meeting on February 21 where officials of different departments will participate to probe the matter. Registrar Suresh Sindhi said that officials of different departments have been directed to attend the meeting to initiate inquiry in this matter.
 
 The wake-up call has brought bad news for ‘chaiwallahs’ on the footpaths. They did not work on Monday after the teams came out in the market in Kishangarh and left for their homes. “Almost 80 per cent vendors are using domestic cooking gas cylinders and therefore, they fear their cylinders will be taken away and action against them will be initiated, therefore they did not come to the market,” said a source.
 
 In Beawar too cylinders were seized from tea vendors outside Amrit Kaur Hospital.
 
 
