KOCHI: The city celebrating the   of the arrival of the   at the   on Saturday had a   this weekend.

 
 Julien Desmier, who had left for England from Cochin on a cruise liner 60 years ago, was back at the port with his son to reminisce about the city from where he left his homeland.
 
 Originally from Tiruchirappally, Desmier settled down in Surrey with his father and his six brothers.
 
 “I was just 10 when I arrived at the port and still clearly remember the day. There was this big white ship and it was amazing to see as I had never seen a cruise liner before. The Cochin Port was quite small then. There were only two cargo ships there other than the cruise liner, which we boarded,” says Desmier.
 
 The ship ‘Neptunia’ of an Italian cruise company, Lloyd Christiano, took the family to Genova in 1958.
 
 Desmier’s family then took trains to reach England and settled down in the county of Surrey. Desmier, with Tamil, French and Portuguese roots, set up an electronics company in England and later married Heather, an English woman. He says that though all his children were brought up in the English way, he tried to keep their Indian roots alive.
 
 “My wife cooks ‘Sambar’ and my son’s favourite dish is biriyani. Our family is a mix of cultures. My son married an English woman while one of my two daughters married an Iranian man. I do miss India though. The extra care that the elderly get in India is something that is lacking in England. I am retired now and I am planning to visit India more often in the coming years,” said Desmier.
 
 Desmier looks young and energetic even at the age of 70. He says that this trip is exclusive to share the experience of Kochi with his son.
 
 “When I was a kid, I along with my family used to visit Kochi often. The city has changed a lot now. Though it is a small city, it is quite a busy one now,” said Desmier.
 
 Desmier took his son Alain Desmier to the port during the weekend to show him the place where he boarded the ship to Europe. Alain says that Kochi offered a great vacation.
 
 “Dad wanted to take a train journey here, so we went to Alappuzha via train. The mall at Edappally is as big as anything that you would see in England,” said Alain who was worried about missing the Liverpool game in the Champions League finals as the father-son duo is set to fly back on Sunday morning.
 
