Nagpur: The Nagpur bench of Bombay high court on Friday stayed the controversial order, issued by state’s chief wildlife warden AK Misra, to tranquillize and capture tigress with four cubs in Girgaon area of Bramhapuri division in Chandrapur. TOI on Friday reported how the local committee of experts and forest officials had suggested the capture and subsequently tranquillizing order was passed ignoring the fact that the tigress had not harmed humans. This is the third order issued by Misra which was challenged and stayed by the high court. The order was challenged by city-based environmentalist Swanand Soni, through counsel Akshay Naik, by filing a public interest litigation (PIL). The matter came up before a division bench of Justice Bhushan Gavai and Justice MG Giratkar. Justice Gavai immediately instructed the petitioner to give notice to the forest department and issue instructions that they will hear the matter at the end of the daily list. Naik presented the petitioner’s views that the tigress has not caused any conflict and the capture order is premature in nature. Counsel for the forest department Mehroz Pathan said the tigress has charged at humans twice and killed a wild boar and cattle. Naik countered this saying wild boar is a natural prey of tiger. Justice Gavai then questioned forest department by asking how many humans have been killed or injured to which there was no answer. After hearing the arguments, Justice Gavai directed that efforts to capture the tigress should be stopped while the department was free to continue measures to mitigate man-animal conflict. The department promised to file a reply by March 28. The matter has been listed the same day. Meanwhile, wildlife conservationists questioned the committee members’ role and competence in hastily arriving at the capture decision without following the protocols of the National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA). Rajesh Gopal, secretary-general of Global Tiger Forum (GTF), termed the decision to capture tigress with cubs as completely unwarranted. “It is really sad. When there is no record of any human attack, why capture the animal. It is against wildlife management principles,” Gopal said. Bramhapuri deputy conservator and chairman of the committee Kulraj Singh said, “It is true that there were no human attacks, but huge crowd had gathered when the tigress strayed out. The decision was taken as a matter of precaution.” Wildlife lover Sarita Subramaniam asked, “Why police help was not taken to impose Section 144 to control the crowd. Are the committee members trying to mitigate or increase the conflict?” “It is really an irony that despite the Integrated Tiger Habitat Conservation Programme, supported by International Union for Conservation of Nature and German Development Bank (KfW), being implemented to strengthen the corridor, tigers are being captured from the same area,” she said. Subramaniam also sought to know that if capacity of the forest department has been really beefed up to tackle conflict under the massively-funded ongoing IUCN-KfW project in Bramhapuri. Interestingly, a couple of committee members that okayed capture of the tigress are part of the IUCN-KfW project which envisaged corridor conservation and tiger population outside PAs. The committee also recommended removing habitat cover where the tigress took cover. Wildlife biologist Milind Pariwakam said, “It is natural for a tigress to be protective about cubs and she might show some aggression. Mere presence of a pugmark or a tiger should not be defined as conflict.” Another biologist Aditya Joshi said, “Tiger, being free-ranging animal, uses fields and nullahs in between forest blocks as pathways, especially in fragmented forests.” Sources said the NTCA has demanded a status report on the issue from Maharashtra forest department in the light of the controversial decision.