HYDERABAD: Stating that the twin Telugu states of   and   will benefit in the long run if they invest their efforts today in preventing   and instill a sense of fear and responsibility in the minds of students, the   on Tuesday directed the two states to take effective steps to herald an era of good standards in education by driving home the message that hard work alone pays.

 The bench of acting Chief Justice Ramesh Ranganathan and Justice G Shyam Prasad was dealing with a public interest petition filed by Guntupalli Srinivas of Eluru, which charged the officials of the education department for complete failure in preventing malpractices in examinations.
 
 The bench of acting Chief Justice Ramesh Ranganathan and Justice G Shyam Prasad was dealing with a public interest petition filed by Guntupalli Srinivas of Eluru, which charged the officials of the education department for complete failure in preventing malpractices in examinations.
 
 
 
 
 The bench, which had earlier sought affidavits from both the states, was told by Telangana that it had invested heavily in installing CCTV cameras in as many as 400 exam halls across the state. However, AP claimed its helplessness in this regard citing its poor financial condition.
 
 The bench urged the two states to display some will power and prosecute errant individuals. “Do not show any misplaced sympathies even towards the students. You have the AP Education Act 1982 and the   Public Examinations (Prevention of Malpractices and Unfair Means) Act, 1997. Implement them. If you do not want to implement them, better remove them,” the bench told Andhra Pradesh and Telangana.
 
 While directing the petitioner to suggest ways to prevent copying, the bench, however, declined to give any direction to the states because measures like installing CCTV cameras involve huge financial expenditure, which cannot be directed through a mandamus by the court. Turning critical towards parents for bringing undue pressure upon children for getting more marks, the bench asked them to be more patient towards their kids. “Better tell the kids that there is no problem even if they get less marks. It is better than getting more marks through wrong practices. What is wrong if they lose an academic year in the process?” said the bench. The case has been posted for hearing to January 23.
 
 
