Mysuru: Even as the state is facing flak from Tamil Nadu over the Cauvery water sharing issue, the   Consultative Committee (ICC) has decided to spare water for irrigation from the  . The ICC has decided to release water when the state will go to the polls.

 The   from the dam, for tanks and irrigation purposes during elections, had been termed as a political gimmick by   of the region. 
 
 PWD minister H C Mahadevappa, during the recently held ICC meeting, had directed the Cauvery Neeravari Nigam Limited (CNNL) authorities to release water from the Kabini dam, on and off, for irrigation purposes. 
 
 The Kabini dam which is located in H D Kote, will irrigate parts of H D Kote, Nanjangud, T Narsipur and Kollegal taluks. Chief minister Siddaramaiah had offered traditional bagina to the Kapila river at Kabini reservoir, as the reservoir reached its maximum storage level after two years, due to failure of monsoon, in September . 
 
 As per the decision, water from the dam will be released to the right bank canal and to tanks, in instalments. 
 
 The CNNL authorities will release water for a continuous 10 days, which will be stopped for the next 20 days. CNNL chief engineer Manjunath said this process will be continued till the arrival of monsoon, which is expected to start from May. “Water will be released from February 5 to 15. Instalments of water will also be released from March 5 to 15 , April 5 to 15 and May 5 to 15,” he added.
 
 The Kabini Right Bank canal is 202 km in length, which will be divided into three divisions. As per the decision, water will be first released to the third division, which is the Kollegal division, which is at the tail-end, by shutting down the canals, which supplies to the other two divisions, said sources. “Water will be released to the Hullahalli-Rampura canals in the first week of February,” he said. 
 
 Farmer leader and state Surgarcane Growers Association president Kuruburu Shantakumar told TOI that releasing water to tanks and for irrigation is purely a political gimmick by the state government. 
 
 “Congress leaders are playing vote bank politics by announcing to release water from the Kabini dam. Farmers were demanding water from July for their crops in this region, but then the government did not release it, citing a shortage of water. But as elections are nearing, they have decided to release water,” he said. 
 
 Kabini dam executive engineer Jagadeesha told TOI that at present the Kabini dam has around 7 TMC of water, of which 3 TMC can be used for irrigation. As per the weather reports, we are expecting rainfall by May, he said. 
 
 
