Cleared

 Chennai: After recording severe losses in the day-to-day operations of its 22,500-strong fleet across the state, the Tamil Nadu government hopes to rake in 30% increase in its daily revenue with revision of bus fare. Observers point out that the delay in the move to revise bus fares has been blamed on Tamil Nadu’s vote-bank politics and poor fiscal management. Before the Friday fare revision, the state earned Rs 22 crore a day, which was “unable to wipe out the mounting debt and huge statutory payments” to retired and serving employees.
 
 A look at the bus fare of the neighbouring states show that Tamil Nadu fare was far less. The mofussil/ordinary bus fare of Andhra Pradesh is 63.7p/km since 2015, while it is 59p/km and 64p/m in Karnataka and Kerala respectively. After the hike, TN’s fare is 60p/km. “It has been revised after much deliberation to ensure that the transport corporations improve their services and efficiency and make it financially sustainable,” said a senior officer, seeking anonymity. “We hope to get 30% more of earnings now,” he said. 
 
 Faced with criticism from the opposition, the department increased ordinary services to 2,744, adding 198 on Monday, and another 64 super deluxe services as express in six transport corporations. But, an increasing number of commuters preferring trains is cause for concern for the state.
 
 In Chennai, the MTC increased its ordinary service to 1,000 from 831 earlier -- by reducing the express and deluxe services, the fare for which is four-fold. In all, 3,377 ordinary services were operated on Monday. The government is of the view that the revision would help in better financial management of the resources and help the corporations to come out of financial distress.
 
 The corporations had recorded a cumulative loss of Rs 20,488 crore despite the state offering subsidized diesel worth Rs 12,059 crore in the last seven years – the price of diesel rose over 50% during this period and the previous Jayalalithaa regime gave fare revision a miss after 2011. Former chief minister J Jayalalithaa rolled out one revision in December 2001.
 
 In a first, the state also introduced cess from bus fare for accident compensation, accident prevention measures and toll fees, following the footsteps of Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh. Transport unions say the hike in bus fare would drive commuters to other means of transport. This may even result in government not achieving desired results. 
 
 “The losses the corporations suffer are only due to operation of services in uneconomic routes, especially in the rural areas providing the much-needed connectivity, and the concessions offered to various sections, including students and elderly,” said CPM-affiliated CITU general secretary A Soundararajan. “The government could reimburse the loss incurred by these corporations. When the successive chief ministers repeatedly said that the corporations are not commercial ventures but public service, it is inappropriate to look at profit and loss” he said.
 
 EOM 
 
 
