CENTURION:   is breaking a One-Day batting record almost every second day at the crease. Just that while he’s busy walking out there, he doesn’t know which one is he accomplishing this time. In the process, the last two weeks, he broke South Africa’s confidence like no other batsman in recent history, leaving them in a state of absolute helplessness as the six-match series concluded with a massive India win at the SuperSport Park on Friday.

 
 Kohli crossed 9,500 one-day runs in India’s eight wicket-win to become the first batsman to score 500 runs in a bilateral series. The India captain ended up being the highest scorer in that and if all of it wasn’t enough, the second and the third highest run-getters in this series — Shikhar Dhawan and Rohit Sharma — put together were still falling short of the runs he had put on board.
 
 In doing so, the India captain raced to another ODI century, his 35th, in a manner that was convincing, threatening, reassuring and soaked in absolute self-belief.
 
 To put this series between India and South Africa in a batting perspective, Kohli’s own self-belief is one that the hosts found simply too hot to handle. It wasn’t anymore about who was the bowler they deployed and what was the length they bowled to Kohli. The batsman controlled the innings and the match with an iron grip that South Africa just couldn’t shake off.
 
 India had won the toss and elected to field, this being the same venue where they had defeated South Africa by a whopping margin in the second match, handing them their worst defeat at home. Between that game and this one, the only difference remained that the hosts had managed to put more runs on the board, a relatively better 204. Between that game and this one, Kohli remained the same, chasing targets with aplomb.
 
 This was the India captain’s 21st century in chase after openers Rohit Sharma (15) and Dhawan (18) departed before India could reach the first 100 runs.
 
 Even mistimed strokes went to the boundary as Kohli and Rahane went about putting a century stand for the third wicket. Every shot to the boundary, barring two sixes off   towards the end, were ground strokes. The domination was absolute.
 
 Earlier in the day, Shardul Thakur — coming in for an overworked Bhuvneshwar Kumar — picked four wickets after South Africa showed some bit of spark in the first five overs. It was Thakur’s first match of the series.
 
 The wicket turned out to be a gift for batsmen, except that the state of mind South Africa have been in, no wicket anywhere in the world would do their batting any good right now. It was sheer lack of confidence that resulted in the hosts crumbling from 105/3 to all out in the next 99 runs. From   to AB de Villiers and even their young captain Aiden Markram, they all fell on deliveries they shouldn’t have. De Villiers, for instance, moved way across the line — one he ends up playing his cut — expecting the turn to be in line with the ball.   simply bowled a straighter one flipping through and South Africa’s best batsman could do little.
 
 Khaya Zondo, playing his second match, provided the respite with a 74-ball 54 that would eventually help South Africa get past the 200-run mark.
 
 Beyond that, it was only Kohli’s innings that kept the Centurion crowd busy, one that was as breezy as an African evening. South Africa could only watch, like the rest of the world.
 
 
