NEW DELHI: The Directorate of Education ( ) did not pay heed to the representations regarding service benefits like pension, PF and arrears of three blind teachers under the Sixth Pay Commission, it has emerged, after a Delhi court slammed its officials for “administrative negligence”.

 A DoE official informed additional district Judge   that the file with the teachers’ representations had gone missing. However, it did not go down well with court, which said, “Even if the said file was not traceable, efforts should be made to reconstruct the file by seeking a copy of the representation from the plaintiffs (teachers) so that the decision should reach a logical conclusion. The case was put to an end by the DoE officials on the ground of the missing file. It is highly absurd and objectionable.”
 
 More importantly, prima facie, the court noted that the DoE deputy director, in order to “cover up lapses”, had intentionally not disclosed true facts regarding either the processing of the teachers’ representations, or the missing file. He has accordingly been summoned with a written explanation. “Deputy director concerned, who filed the written submission, intentionally did not disclose true facts to cover up or hide the lapses. Accordingly, he is directed to appear in person…with an explanation as to why action should not be recommended against him,” it directed.
 
 In addition, for the court a more “sensitive approach” had be to be adopted especially because the case pertains to disabled people. “The three plaintiffs are   persons and when no decision was taken on their first representation, they filed another one in 2015, but prima facie to no avail,” it observed.
 
 The school, where the trio taught, has been functioning since 1986 and was recognised as an unaided school in 1991, and subsequently got its recognition for being an aided school in 2010. The teachers, however, claimed that despite their representations — June 5, 2012 and January 28, 2015 — to the DoE, their service period was not counted for grant of benefits such as a pension, PF, etc, either from the dates of recognition or their appointments. They claimed that they had been working with the school from before it had received recognition.
 
 The DoE on the contrary contested the case, saying the plaintiffs — three teachers and one staff — with Andh Vidyalaya or the Institution of the Blind at Lajpat Nagar, had not genuinely moved court and their suit was not maintainable. The DoE counsel also argued that according to a provision of the Delhi School Education Act, 1973, a civil court had no jurisdiction to try and entertain the case. The court, however, held that its jurisdiction was not barred and the suit was maintainable.
 
 During the course of arguments, DoE deputy education officer disclosed that the though the teachers’ first representation was processed in their department, the file had remained untraceable for a time. “Normally a government office is supposed to function in a transparent and responsible manner, and if any record is missing, it should be communicated to the higher officers,” judge Laka said.
 
 Commenting how the plaintiffs were “running from pillar to post”, the court recommended several actions to be taken by the DoE. In one such recommendation, the court said that the DoE in its reply did not mention about the missing file in addition there was any reference to the processing of the teachers’ representations.
 
 
