NEW DELHI: A   architect was verbally abused and   by a rickshaw driver outside New Delhi railway metro station after she refused to board his vehicle on Thursday evening as he was allegedly overcharging her for travelling to Paharganj. In a social media post, the woman claimed that the man was drunk and had even tried to force her into boarding the vehicle.

 Two policemen, ASI Shibu and head constable Chander Bhan, were suspended on the victim’s allegation that she got no help for almost an hour after calling the women’s helpline.
 
  
  
 
 The incident occurred around 6.30pm near gate number 1 of New Delhi railway metro station. While she was walking away from the rickshaw, the driver, Khursheed, ran and grabbed her hand. “He was drunk and abused me. He then said ‘ab to tu mere saath hi chalegi’ and tried to drag her to the vehicle,” the woman said in her complaint. “I turned around and smashed my water bottle against his face and then dragged him to the police post nearby, but there were no policemen there,” she added.
 
  
  
 
 She tried calling the PCR, but failed as her phone’s battery ran out. A few youths helped her dial the helpline, which was answered by a policeman who promised that a team would reach her within five minutes.
 
  
  
 
 In the meantime, the woman forced open the police kiosk and locked the driver inside. “I got a call from a policeman after some time and even he repeated that someone would come within five minutes. No one arrived even after half an hour,” said the woman.
 
 The rickshaw driver kept saying that she should let her go as no one would come to help her. Passersby clicked photographs of the man and stopped him from escaping.
 
 After 45 minutes, the woman lost her patience and beat up the man with a stick after which he started bleeding. “I didn’t want to stop, but after sometime the human inside couldn’t hurt him any longer. I threw the stick and walked away,” she said in her social media post. She tagged   in the post following which DCP (PRO)   alerted his counterpart, DCP (railways) Parvez Ahmed.
 
 “We requested the woman to record her statement. We checked the number on which she had called for help and found that the policemen on duty were busy with other work. They have been suspended for not performing their duty and an inquiry has been initiated against them,” said DCP Ahmed.
 
 Khursheed was identified from a picture clicked by the woman on her phone. He was found to be a native of Darbhanga in Bihar. He was driving the rickshaw on rent. He used to stay on the footpath near  . A case of outraging the modesty of a woman has been registered against him.
 
 “I am happy with the action taken by police and hope to get a better response next time,” the woman told TOI.
 
 
