Bhopal: Soon as the polls closed in Mungaoli and Kolaras on Saturday, BJP state president   said that the party would wrest both the assembly seats from Congress. 

 Chauhan also refuted the allegations that the saffron party had put pressure on the chief election officer (CEO) or the election commission during the bypolls.
 
  “We did not put any pressure on the CEO or the election commission during the bypolls. BJP never believes in politics of pressure. We are sure to win both Mungaoli and Kolaras seats because of our development agenda”, Singh told TOI.
 
 He said four factors would play a major role in the BJP’s victory — chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan’s popularity, BJP’s development plan, public confidence in the government and Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s name and image.
 
 Talking about the violence and attacks during the campaign period, Chauhan said that Congress’ bid to disrupt elections has failed before and after the polling. 
 
 He blamed the media for instigating the matter. BJP MLA from   was attacked when he was returning from his campaign and CRPF also did not find anything objectionable from him. “Still the matter was flashed by the media in a biased manner. Congress, however, failed in its tactics”, said the BJP state chief.
 
 “Highhandedness by Congress leaders created an ugly situation. Jyotiraditya and   also threatened BJP workers, but they were spared. We took to social media to convey our messages and information regarding the campaigning", said Singh.
 
 He thanked the people of Mungaoli and Kolaras for peaceful voting. “They played a crucial role in upholding the democratic values and exercised their mandate to keep the democracy alive. We also thank employees and jawans for their dedication”, said Singh.
 
 The Congress party will win both Mungaoli and Kolaras assembly seats with huge margins. Despite use of government machinery, money, muscle power, the ruling party will lose both the bypolls. The results will spell doom for the BJP.
 
 
