GAYA: The three-day-long general strike called by the local residents and traders to protest against the new   regulations including ban on entry of all categories of four-wheelers in a radius of about 1 km from the Mahabodhi temple (Buddha shrine) - high on the terrorist radar - for security and environmental reasons, concluded on Sunday.

 The ban came into effect on February 20. Initially two-wheelers, motorised as well as pedalled, were on the ban purview. Officials subsequently exempted two-wheelers, provided the vehicles were not parked in the prohibited zone. All activity is likely to be revived from Monday morning onwards, said traders. 
 
 However, the stand-off between the district officials and local people continue with both sides adamant on their respective stands. No more concessions can be given, say officials, while locals reiterated their demand for status quo till the finalisation of an alternative route plan. 
 
 Asked about the future plan of action, Dharmendra Yadav, a local stakeholder said a decision on the issue will be taken at the general body meeting of all people affected by the new arrangement. Local business, particularly the hospitality sector, suffered huge losses and a sizeable number of foreign tourists rescheduled their plan making an early departure. According to Arun Kumar Ojha, a prominent tour organiser, domestic tourists have deserted Bodh Gaya. A sizeable number of foreign tourists too have made an exit and gone to places like, Nalanda, Rajgir and Varanasi.
 
 It is bound to have a long term effect on tourist inflow also. Terming the new traffic plan as non-pragmatic, Ojha hoped that better sense prevailed on both sides. “The officials should take the real stakeholders into confidence,” said the tour organiser.
 
 Earlier, the officials made some changes in the original plan to accommodate some of the demands of the strikers. The concessions made include exemption granted to bikers from the ban purview and allow loading and unloading in the restricted zone between 9 pm and 5 am.
 
 Sources also said that the local businessmen are now contemplating judicial remedy for their grievances. However, a final decision on whether to approach the court for the annulment of the traffic plan or not would be taken after Holi. Meanwhile, the formal denial about any immediate plan to demolish existing structures within 500 meter radius of the shrine outer wall to create a buffer zone as recommended by UNESCO at the time of notifying Mahabodhi temple as world heritage site, has brought some relief to the local population.
 
 With neither side ready to blink first in the ongoing war of nerves, the crisis is unlikely to be resolved soon, feel Bodh Gaya watchers.
 
 
