Coimbatore: About 20 passengers on board a town bus, on its way to Palladam, had a lucky escape on Sunday morning after Kamarajar Road opposite the Singanallur Bus Stand caved in, trapping the vehicle. Bus no. 105A, which was carrying several ESI staff, was near the bus stand around 11am, when the front portion of the bus sunk. “The driver managed to get down from the bus and ensured that all the passengers got out. The pit had a pool of water into which the bus began to sunk. City corporation officials and engineers soon reached the spot,” said TNSTC Palladam manager K Ravichandran. The bus was pulled out of the pit after two-and-a-half-hour effort, using cranes. A truck, which was right behind the bus and had also got stuck, was pulled out using a crane. Kamarajar Road was dug up a day ago to lay underground drainage pipelines for one kilometre distance from Singanallur Junction to Varadharajapuram Medu. The pipelines were laid at night and the dug up area was covered with debris. “It was extremely dangerous. We were not aware of the work done by the corporation overnight. There were neither any caution boards nor barricades. Not just did the incident affected traffic for hours, but also put the lives of public in danger,’ Ravichandran told TOI. A site engineer at the spot said the work was carried out at night so as not to disrupt traffic. “There was a borewell water pipeline under the road, about which we were not aware of. That pipeline developed a leak and water began to overflow. This resulted in the road cave-in,” the engineer said. Singanallur MLA N Karthik said the borewell water pipeline was laid more than two decades ago to supply water to the Government Polytechnic College from Singanallur Lake. “There is no necessity for such a pipeline now, as a borewell can be dug at the college premises itself. I had informed senior officials about it and will write to the government to remove the pipeline and set up a borewell in the college,” he said. Meanwhile, residents in the area said the officials were well aware that heavy vehicles plied on the road, especially with a bus stand located there. “They have undertaken underground drainage work everywhere. After the works, roads were not relaid properly, causing such cave-ins,” said Kumar, a local resident. Eyewitnesses also said that they were afraid of driving through such roads. Corporation officials said they have instructed the contractor to patch up the road. Good Shed Road, Big Bazaar Street, Sowripalayam Road, R S Puram and other parts in the city had also caved in in the past, raising questions about the quality of work carried out and road safety.