BAREILLY: Nine people were killed in the district in the thunderstorm on Sunday night. According to officials, five persons of a family were killed in   after a mosque’s minaret collapsed on them. Four more casualties were reported from   tehsil area. According to district officials, an ex-gratia of Rs 4 lakh each was being given to the families of the deceased.
 
  Among 25 districts affected by storm on Sunday night,   reported the highest number of deaths, which also included two kids. Across the state, 51 people were reported killed.
  
  On Monday, district magistrate VK Singh and senior superintendent of police Kalanidhi Naithani reached the post-mortem house where they met the kin of the deceased. Officials also visited the affected families in Banjariya village.
  
  Officials said that in the village under Sheeshgarh police station area, minaret of an under construction mosque collapsed on an adjacent house following burying nine people under the debris. Police and villagers launched the rescue operation pulled out the bodies after three hours.
  
  Five family members, including two children, died while four others sustained serious injuries. The deceased were identified as Raima, 3, Alija, 4, Parveen, 40, Rafi Ahmed, 18, and Mobin Jahan, 30. 
  
  In another incident, that took place in Sadar area, Lakshman Singh, 48, lost control over his motorbike in the dust storm and collided with a four-wheeler. He died on the spot while his friend Sivam Sharma sustained serious injuries.
  
  In  , one Sonu Sharma, 22, had taken shelter at a religious place as soon as the storm started. The wall of that place collapsed on Sharma. He was rushed to a hospital where he died during the treatment. Similarly, in Mission Compound, taxi driver Davis P Lal, 50, succumbed to his injuries after falling into a drain. 
  
   , 22, was killed in Sadar area after she slipped from her terrace and fell on the ground. She was taken to a hospital where doctors declared her brought dead.
  
  “Four injured people have been admitted in a private hospital at Rampur Garden and Sheeshgarh. Besides, some other injured are admitted in the district hospital. Administration will bear the expenses of their treatment. Meanwhile, we have withdrawn money from treasury to provide immediate relief to the families of victims and informed the government,” DM VK Singh said.
  
  In Chaupur Danda village of   district, around 50 houses were gutted in a fire caused during the storm. However, no one was killed or injured. Sub-divisional magistrate Dipendar Yadav stayed with his team in the village through the night to run relief operation.
