Gurgaon: The National Green Tribunal ( ) has sent notices to all RWAs, seeking their response to an application that has accused various stakeholders of a collective failure in segregating municipal and biomedical waste in the city — a laxity that poses a major threat to public health at large.

 The panel has also slapped notices on the ministry of environment and forest (MoEF), Central Pollution Control Board, Haryana State Pollution Control Board, MCG and Ecogreen Energy — a private firm responsible for waste management in the city — who have been made party in the application for allegedly not following the Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016.
 
 “Issue notices to the respondents, directing them to file their response within two weeks from the date of receipt of the  ,” states an order (a copy of which is with TOI) issued by the NGT last week while hearing the application filed by city resident Jitender Yadav.
 
 In his petition, the applicant said, “It will have far-reaching, irreversible impact due to the failure of the respondents and the authorities to implement the Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016. Moreover, the Plastic Waste Management Rules, 2016, and the Bio-medical Rules, 2016, are also not followed.”
 
 Advocate Akash Tyagi, who is representing Yadav in the matter, said residents were equally responsible for degradation of the environment. “They have been failing to dispose of municipal solid waste in a proper manner,” he added.
 
 “RWAs have an obligation to segregate waste,” he added.
 
 The applicant has named 14 RWAs in the plea. But there are over 1,000 registered RWAs in Gurgaon and a majority of them doesn’t follow the rules.
 
 RS Rathee, RWA president of DLF Qutub Enclave, said, “Right from waste generators to waste managers, everybody has to take the responsibility.” 
 
 Nilesh Tondon, RWA president, Fresco, said, “We have been segregating at least 50 per cent of the waste generated in our society for the past one year. However, waste collectors mix the segregated waste while collecting.”
 
 
