Kolkata: Chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s attempts to hardsell   received a huge boost on Tuesday, with India Inc’s most recognised faces — Mukesh   and Lakshmi Niwas Mittal — promising to help her make West Bengal “Best Bengal” and the former putting his money where his mouth was.

 At the end of day one of the state’s flagship investment conclave, Bengal Global   Summit (BGBS), Reliance Industries Limited chairman Ambani had committed to raise his planned investment in the state from Rs 15,000 crore to Rs 20,000 crore, of which Rs 5,000 crore of fresh investment was earmarked for non-Jio operations. Reliance plans to set up digital service centres in five districts of the state to bring government-to-citizen (G2C) services within easy reach.
 
 Ambani took centrestage immediately after the ceremonial lamp was lit, with state finance minister Amit Mitra referring to him as the Tiger Woods of Indian business.
 
 “Every time I come here, I see a new Kolkata and a new Bengal, more vibrant, more dynamic, more beautiful and more optimistic than before. Bengal has said goodbye to the slow growth rate of the past. It is now embracing the future with the grace and agility of the Bengal tiger. Today, West Bengal is the fourth-largest state economy in India, growing at 15.64%. This is much higher than the national ave-rage,” Ambani said.
 
 Referring to the ease of doing business in Bengal, where his company had initially committed investment of Rs 4,500 crore but then tripled it to Rs 15,000 crore, Ambani said a miracle had happened in the state. “Bengal today means business, Bengal knows that it must prosper, not just for its own sake, but for the whole of India. Didi, under your leadership, West Bengal is becoming Best Bengal! Biswa Bangla (Convention Centre) is a testimony to your vision and mission,” Ambani lauded.
 
 In two years, Reliance has emerged as one of the largest investors in Bengal. Jio initiatives have delivered sustained new employment opportunities — both direct and indirect — to over 100,000 people in the state.
 
 Mittal, who flew down from the UK to attend the inaugural ceremony, said the city he grew up in was still his favourite. “I used to attend a small Hindi-medium school here and dreamt of joining St Xavier’s. The principal of Xavier’s told me that my English was not up to the mark and I couldn’t match their standard. However, I worked hard and won the first challenge of my life not just by entering the school but also passing out from it with flying colours. That gave me confidence to pursue my dreams,” he recounted.
 
 Though he did not commit any investment, Mittal said Bengal had all the ingredients for a business-friendly environment: political stability, physical-cum-social infrastructure investment, skilled manpower and smooth bureaucracy. “Mamata-didi’s initiatives are already yielding results on the global stage. Heathcare and primary education (new schools) are the two sectors where the state has started taking steps. I feel very optimistic about the outcome,” he said.
 
 RP-Sanjiv Goenka group chief Sanjiv Goenka, who has major business interests in his home state, said people had begun to understand the value of time and wanted to do business in Bengal. “Bengal is in buisness,” he said, before announcing plans to invest Rs 1,000 crore in power distribution over the next 18 months apart from a hospital next to Woodlands in Kolkata and a new specialty carbon black plant in Durgapur.
 
 Kotak Mahindra Bank executive vice-chairman and managing director Uday Kotak, too, heaped praise on Bengal’s CM. “Earlier, the notion was that the east had resources but not the mindset. I feel it has changed completely in Bengal,” he said.
 
 Future Group chairman Kishore Biyani announced on the podium that his company would increase its staff strength in the state from 10,000 to 15,000 in one year. “We will employ 95% from the below-25 age group and 35% of them will be plus-two passouts. The best thing that I did in my life is that I had started all my businesses from Bengal,” Biyani said.
 
 
