Nagpur: There is little doubt on what will be the most debated topic on April 19 when the city junior college principals and education officials meet regarding online admission process for Std XI.

 A majority of the colleges want bifocal admissions to be completed before filling up seats for general science, as had been the practice in Nagpur ever since the Centralized Admission Procedure (CAP) began in 2004.
 
 This system changed last year when CAP was shifted to a completely online platform and the software only gave science stream admissions while the college filled up bifocal seats based on merit.
 
 Madhusudhan Mude, office bearer of the Headmasters Association (Nagpur district), said, “It will be better if we stick to the pattern followed in Nagpur for over a decade. We hope the education department will consider the issue and make relevant changes for a smoother rollout of online CAP 2018.”
 
 The major issue for students, and by default the colleges, is that they seek admission in bifocal stream only. Till 2016 in Nagpur, the admission process was partially online and this allowed colleges to first fill up bifocal seats. Students benefitted as they went “college-shopping” till they got their desired bifocal branch. After this, colleges filled up their general science seats. 
 
 The new completely online system is a double whammy for students, not only because they have to first take admission in their software allotted college but also because there is no guarantee they will get a bifocal seat there.
 
 A principal told TOI, “If it’s a top college then bifocal admissions close at 97% plus and once the student misses it, he cannot move out. The CAP system does not allow student to change college after allotment is done.” Students are allotted colleges according to the preference list they submit in application process.
 
 Education officials did not want to comment on the issue as the decision will come from Pune HQ.
 
 An education official told TOI on condition of anonymity, “So far we have not been intimated about changes to CAP as the same system is operational in Mumbai and Pune. If a change is to be made, it will have to be implemented statewide.”
 
 
