NASHIK: A Criminal case has been registered against the witness who turned hostile during the trial in the sensational murder of a woman and her six-year-old son in the Satpur area in 2016. 

 "The registrar of the district and sessions court,  , registered the case against Subhash Rajput. He will be tried in the court of chief judicial magistrate Satyawan Doke," sources in the principal and district sessions court said on Thursday. 
 
 Principal district and sessions judge Suryakant Shinde, on April 26, handed over the death sentence to   for the twin murders.
 
 Rajput had stated in front of judicial magistrate first class Kranti Pingle that the convict called him on his mobile phone and said that he killed the mother-son duo. 
 
 Rajput, however, turned hostile during the trial and sought to disclaim his written statement given in front of the JMFC. The court then called JMFC Pingle in the witness box and asked her to inform if Rajput had admitted to have received the call from Shinde in writing. She produced records and witnesses about Rajput's claim.
 
 Following this the court while giving its judgment on Ramdas Shinde, also observed that Rajput had turned hostile and ordered for prosecuting Rajput for his act. If proven guilty Rajput faces a maximum term of seven years behind the bars. 
 
 The victim, Pallavi Sansare, lived with her family -three daughters, a son and husband - in a house owned by the Shinde's father and had spurned his advances.
 
 On the night of April 17, 2016, Shinde approached Pallavi again and demanded sexual favours. The woman, however, again rejected his offer. In a fit of rage, Shinde went to his house, brought a knife and stabbed Pallavi and her son multiple times and left after shutting the door. 
 
 The incident came when the victim's husband, Kachru, returned home after work the next morning. 
 
 The case did not have any witness as the lone witness Rajput turned hostile. The special court, however, relied on extra judicial confession, spectrography and circumstantial evidence. 
 
 
