THANE: The citizens’ community has joined hands to spread awareness on the ban on plastic bags and products and have switched to social media to widen their reach and inform locals about the alternatives to plastic and the harmful impact of it to the bio-diversity.

 From forming WhatsApp groups to discussing cheaper alternatives, uploading posts on  , these groups are doing everything to make people aware about the ways to avoid plastic. Some have started plastic waste collection drives and have also uploaded pictures on social media sites of vegetable vendors who are using cloth or paper bags. 
 
 NGOs, citizen and environmental activists have taken the online world by storm to advocate the ban on plastic.
 
 Dipti Sawant, a resident of   1 and who is associated with a city-based  , said, “We have formed a WhatsApp group wherein we put up posts about our upcoming collection drive of plastic waste. As of now, around 35 societies in Thane are part of this group and we are trying to reach out to more. Nowadays, a majority of people don’t have the time to actually be a part of any social cause. Since almost everyone uses WhatsApp, we thought this platform would bring like-minded people together. We can only hope that such people would carry the initiative further and urge others to take part in the social cause.” 
 
 While some have formed WhatsApp groups, many have created Facebook pages to reach out to people. 
 
 “We have recently started a Facebook page to make people aware about the ill-effects of plastic. We will gradually encourage them to use cloth bags. Accordingly, we have even approached self-help women groups to come up with different alternatives to plastic. We have upload all these pictures on our page so that more people can come forward in support of the ban,” said  , a citizen activist. Taking inspiration from YouTube tutorials and WhatsApp videos that have been doing the rounds since the last couple of weeks, many denizens are making their own garbage bags out of paper.
 
 Harsha Pongurlekar, a resident of  , said, “I came across a video a few days ago where they showed how to make a paper bag for garbage disposal. Earlier, I used to use plastic bags given by vegetable vendors and reused it to throw the dry waste. But after seeing the video I have started making my own bags every morning.”
 
 From forming WhatsApp groups to discussing cheaper alternatives, uploading posts on Facebook, these groups are doing everything to make people aware about the ways to avoid plastic. Some have started plastic waste collection drives and have also uploaded pictures on social media sites of vegetable vendors who are using cloth or paper bags
 
 
