GAYA/PATNA: The National Investigation Agency (NIA) and National Security Guard (NSG) teams reached   on Saturday to assist the   Police’s probe into the recovery of three high- intensity improvised explosive devices (IEDs) in three metallic containers and a low intensity blast near the world-famous Mahabodhi Temple in Bodh Gaya on Friday evening.

 While one container was found at the entrance of the Buddhist temple, two others were lying near the Sri Lankan monastery situated adjacent to the Tibetan monastery where Buddhist spiritual leader Dalai   has put up since January 2.
 
 The live bombs, weighing about 10kg each, have been kept in the bed of Falgu river for neutralisation by the NSG team.
 
 Sources said security personnel from NIA, NSG and state police are working on what is said to be a ‘solid lead’ provided by the CCTV footage of the area where the blast took place. However, officials refused to divulge details.
 
 Gaya SSP Garima Malik denied any detention or arrest. “Revealing anything about the progress of the investigation will be counter productive,” she said.
 
 A police officer, however, confided that Indian Mujahideen (IM) was the main suspect, but involvement of a Chinese organisation or Myanmar-based Rohingyas too could not be ruled out. “The serial blasts in Bodh Gaya in July 2013 were caused by a Jharkhand-based IM module. The saboteurs this time may too have   or Chhattisgarh connection,” the officer said, adding the state police was in touch with the police in the two states.
 
 Meanwhile, Bodh Gaya on Saturday was limping back to normal. Security has been beefed up near the Buddhist shrine and the Tibetan monastery.
 
 A large number of Buddhist monks and Buddha devotees from across the world are currently gathered in Bodh Gaya to attend the Dalai’s sermon sessions, which will continue till February 2. Even before the recovery of the IEDs, the township was on high alert and the security bandobust for the month-long Buddhist congregation involved 3,000 police personnel.
 
 
