The latest episode of   proved that breaking any rule in the house is taken seriously.

 In the previous episode, Harshad Khanvilkar entered the house as a wild card entry. She told everyone about the image they have created in the outside world. She was very blunt with   and   as their relationship isn't being taken well by the viewers.
 
 The episode started with a discussion between the housemates about the things that were told to them by  .
 
 Resham and Rajesh felt that they haven’t done anything wrong. It’s the perspective of the people who are taking it in the wrong way.
 
 The next day in the house started with the song ‘Yaara Yaara’. Everyone was happy with the entry of the new member.
 
 Jui told Harshada that even she feels Rajesh and Resham’s behaviour in the house is wrong. But she couldn’t express it earlier.
 
 Bigg Boss then called everyone in the living room, and announced that Smita's captaincy was over. So they had to appoint a new captain of the house.
 
 Bigg Boss asked the two teams from the task ‘Thembe Thembe Tale Sache’ to announce the name of the best member from their team.
 
 One team announced Pushkar’s name and the other team declared Sushant’s name.
 
 Bigg Boss gave a new captaincy task to the housemates. Bigg Boss asked the two candidates of the captaincy task to decorate the garden area which was allocated to them. They had to decorate it with flowers.
 
 The other members in the house were asked to support either of the two candidates and to protect the garden of the member whom they were supporting.
 
 But during this task, Pushkar and Rutuja got injured.
 
 So after it was done,   and Rajesh were punished by Bigg Boss for breaking the rule of the house. They tried to play with physical strength during the task because of which Pushkar and Rutuja got injured.
 
 Bigg Boss asked the two to do all the household work, from washing clothes to cleaning toilets and cooking for everyone in the house.
 
 Bigg Boss then asked Harshada to be the host of the new task, wherein the housemates were divided into two teams and were asked questions related to general knowledge.
 
 
 The episode ended with completion of the task by both the teams. 
 
 
