KOLKATA: A 24-year-old engineering pass out, who was on his way to the airport in an app cab with his father to catch a morning flight to Hyderabad to report for his first job at a multinational corporation, met with an accident early on Tuesday morning and is now on ventilation. Police said the driver possibly dozed off and rammed the vehicle into a stationary container near  .

 Akashdeep Roy, who was sitting at the rear, suffered multiple clots in his brain and underwent a four-and-a-half hour operation at a city hospital. “Doctors said his condition is extremely critical and they will have to keep him under observation for the next two days,” said Sumit Dey, Roy’s cousin.
 
 Roy’s father Sourav, 53, also suffered facial wounds with a broken nose and jaw and severe injuries on his eyes. He was admitted to the intensive care unit of the same hospital. The driver, Rahul Singh, received the maximum injuries and underwent a surgery for multiple fractures all over his body at   and Hospital. Doctors said his condition, too, was extremely critical till late on Tuesday.
 
 Police said the accident happened at 3.34am when the car rammed into a stationary container at Baguiati Joramandir while travelling at a high speed. “It looks like the driver had possibly dozed off as he hit the container parked on the left side of the road. The three were first taken to RG Kar Hospital where the driver was admitted but Akashdeep and his father were taken to a private healthcare unit by their kin,” said an officer of Baguiati police station.
 
 Relatives of Roy first took the father-son duo to a nursing home in Bagbajar from where they were shifted to a hospital off EM Bypass. “Both of them were bleeding profusely. My brother had sustained severe injuries on his head and eyes and uncle had his face distorted at the impact of the accident,” said Dey.
 
 Relatives said Roy had booked the cab from their home at Keshtopur on Tuesday to take Go Air’s 6.40am flight to Hyderabad. “Roy’s mother had been insisting to accompany them till airport. Since she had to return home alone with her husband scheduled to fly to   with his son, she changed her mind,” said Goutam Dey, another relative.
 
 The Roys are from Chittaranjan near Asansol, where Sourav is a senior mechanical engineer at the Chitraranjan Locomotive Works. The family had shifted to a friend’s house at Keshtopur three months ago since Akashdeep, who had completed engineering from  , had been undergoing training at Unitech Info Space.
 
 Jadrith Choudhuri, GM of Ola, Kolkata, said: “It’s unfortunate. We are in touch with the families of the commuters and driver partner. We are also extending our support to the local authorities to investigate the matter.”
 
 
