Noida is all set for Holi.   have been bought, gujiyas have been ordered, and most importantly, post-Holi appointments have been made at cosmetic clinics/beauty salons. Celebrating   with organic or home-made colours might be ‘in’, but it seems like Noidawallahs are willing to spend time and money in beauty salons for treatments before and after Holi, rather than do away with colours. If the number of customers visiting salons for skin treatments immediately after Holi is anything to go by, then there are very few people in the city who celebrate with organic colours, say   owners and  . “Each year after Holi, there is around 20-30% increase in the number of clients who come for herbal facials and pedicures. For those who have to attend weddings right after Holi, pre-bookings have been made for body-whitening and body-polishing,” says Sada, Senior Manager, Geetanjali Salon, Sector 18.

 
  Srishti Bhagat from Ramjas College shows us how colour-loving Noidawallahs would rather spend hours at the salon than give up their colours on Holi
 
 
 
 While gulaal is "for the elders in the family", for the younger lot, Holi is not complete without pakka colours, and beauticians say that chemical colours are the most difficult to remove. Raishu Singh, the owner of Affinity Express, Sector 137, says, "Every year, post-Holi, our footfall increases by almost double. Noidawallahs like to play Holi with pakka colours, and once the festival is over, they don’t mind shelling out money on beauty treatments. More women come in for pedicure, manicure and body polishing to get rid of Holi colours. The skin tends to get more sensitive after one has played Holi, so we go easy with our clean-ups and facials. We check the skin type first before recommending any facials. Sometimes, we get clients with hypersensitive skin, so we suggest some home remedies and organic ways of getting rid of the colours, like ubtan made with besan and gulab jal, kachha doodh, honey and aloe vera, among others."
 
  
  
 
 
 
 And the ongoing wedding season has added to the number of clients for salons. Raishu adds, "Since the wedding season is also on, our clients have already enquired about skin-whitening procedures, crystal pedicures and manicures, to be done after Holi. And it is not just women who take care of their hair and skin, men too head to a salon for spa and facials after Holi."
 Dermal facials, skin-whitening, pedicures and manicures post Holi
 Sonia Chauhan, the manager of Looks Salon, Sector 18, says, "The colours go off only in due course, and there is no immediate solution for that. But after Holi, our clients go in for dermal facials, which range between Rs. 3,500 and Rs. 4,500. Some of them go in for ocean-whitening facial, which helps in cleansing dry and pigmented skin. For those who have an extra-sensitive skin mostly opt for organic skin radiance clean-up, where we go completely natural and use organic ingredients."
 
  
  
 
 
 Dr Alia Rizvi, Dermatologist and Cosmetologist, who runs a clinic in Sector 41, says, "After Holi, people come to us for treatments for skin rashes, allergies, itching, burning, etc. While there is no foolproof cosmetic or allopathic method of getting rid of Holi colours instantly, we suggest our clients to play Holi with only natural colours to avoid any harm to skin and hair. We examine the skin type of our clients and have special treatments to clear, revitalise, exfoliate and stimulate skin for a glowing skin. From radiance therapy to facial rejuvenation and skin whitening, there are different facial treatments people opt for, depending on their need and skin type."
 
 
 
 The money that you might have to spend on a post-Holi salon session depends on the salon or beauty clinic that you choose and the kind of treatment you need. Packages including body exfoliation, body polishing, hair spa, etc can cost Rs. 4,000-7,000, and if treatments involving laser or peeling are required for colour removal and skin repair, the price can easily cross Rs. 15,000. Rajesh Parmar, Area Business Manager, Lakme, Sector 18, says, "We start getting calls for reservations right after Holi and our footfall increases by almost 30%. Most queries come for facials because once you get exposed to chemical colours, your skin starts getting dehydrated, resulting in pimples and breakouts. Many also go for hair spas, which helps in hair rejuvenation. After playing with pakka colours, people want to get rid of it immediately and so, they opt for body polishing. Our basic packages include facial, detanning, pedicure and manicure that start from Rs.4,000 and go up to Rs. 15,000, which Noidawallahs don’t mind paying, since many a time, customers require three to four sittings to bring their skin tone back to normal."
 Seema Nanda, who runs Nomadic Salon with many outlets across NCR, says, "As people use chemical colours, the skin gets harsh and the residue settles down in the nails. So clients come to us for body-polishing, manicure and pedicure. For nails, we give lemon pedicure and also use hydrogen peroxide to remove the colour from the nails. And since dry colours settle in your scalp, clients ask us for hair spa and oil message to reduce the damage caused by chemical colours."
 
 Aditi.Pancholi@timesgroup.com
 With inputs from Richa.Sharma1@timesgroup.com
 Vibha.Maru@timesgroup.com
 
