Though the advent of e-books started surfacing as a replacement for the paperbacks, a bibliophile can’t survive without the smell of rustic pages. A lot of books are abandoned every year and are converted into pulp by the publishers and recycled. Some are discarded when people move out from their old houses to the new ones. However, sanitation workers from Ankara, Turkey took this responsibility of picking up these old books from heaps of garbage and preserve them which resulted in a more than 6,000-book library. According to the reports, the massive library is entirely made up of abandoned books and serves their community now.

 The garbage collectors from Ankara’s Çankaya district decided to collect books so that the fellow workers and their family members can borrow and read them which lead to the initiation of this massive project. Soon, everyone noticed that the collection is increasingly growing, therefore other people started showing interest in the growing list of fiction and non-fiction books. “We started to discuss the idea of creating a library from these books. And when everyone supported it, this project happened,” the Mayor of Çankaya, Alper Tasdelen, told 
 .
 
 In 2017, 
  of Turkey pointed out that there is only one public library for every 70,000 people in Turkey whereas according to Library Map of the world, the European Union hosts one public library for every 6,200 people.
 
 The books have been properly divided into categories and subcategories ranging from romance, economics, fiction. The collections keep on growing everyday as the sanitation workers are always on a collection spree while they are on their shifts. People have even started sending in books through mail for the further addition. 
 
 According to Agence-France Presse, the huge collection of books is harboured in a former brick factory which is also a community social hub. It also includes a barber shop and cafeteria. This hub even includes the furniture (some of which are furnished) and office equipment which were found in the trash and rescued by the workers. 
 
 AFP reported that the workers also plan on creating a bookmobile to send the books to local schools.
 
