NEW DELHI: The Delhi   on Monday   any   to a   of one of the   in Walled City where the court has ordered corporation to act against  .

 A bench of acting Chief Justice Gita Mittal and Justice C Hari Shankar made it clear to the owner that it won’t entertain any plea for a stay against sealing taken by the north corporation.
 
 “Have you seen the photographs? This is not renovation,” the bench told the counsel for the builder who tried to convince the court that there was no illegal construction going on in the building, which is a heritage property.
 
 The counsel then urged the bench to make Heritage Conservation Committee (HCC) a party to the proceedings so that it can re-examine the constructions raised and give an opinion.
 
 But the bench was unmoved. “Usually even before a request for impleadment is made by a lawyer, we do it, but not in this case,” the bench told the owner, asking him to first place the building plans and other key documents of his property on record before it hears the plea further.
 
 The owner had filed an application challenging the north corporation’s action, which itself was taken after the high court cracked the whip last week.
 
 Alarmed that many properties, including Haksar Haveli, the centuries-old heritage building in old Delhi, faced threat from builders and rampant unauthorised construction, the bench had ordered immediate physical inspection of these by the commissioner of North Delhi Municipal Corporation and sought a report.
 
 High court acted on a plea that alleged illegal construction was being carried out in the area that housed famous heritage properties such as Haksar Haveli where India’s first Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru married Kamala Nehru.
 
 The court had also sought a report from the corporation to explain how such illegal construction was being carried out in these properties, including two heritage buildings, and demanded to know the action taken against officers under whose jurisdiction such action was carried on. 
 
 On Monday, the high court posted the latest plea by one of the building owners for April 13 when it will consider the report.
 
 
