PATNA: As most scholars and faculty members of 100-year-old   (PU) remain deprived of academic exposure in reputed institutions in India and abroad, a sort of “inbreeding” has crept in the   academic system.

 
 Not that there is dearth of talent in the university, but the environment is not conducive enough to ensure their sound academic growth. Hardly any PU scholar gets a chance to pursue PhD or post-doctoral work in a foreign university. Almost 90% PU scholars have obtained their PhD from their own university during the past two decades, according to a senior academic.
 
 Till the late 1970s, a large number of PU scholars used to avail of various scholarships offered by PU and other organizations. As many as 60 PU scholars were awarded scholarships from   Trust Fund between 1934 and 1968 for pursuing higher studies in India and abroad.
 
 The beneficiaries of the Ganesh Dutt scholarships included Vasudeo Narain (PU VC and Patna Medical College principal), Ram Sharan Sharma (eminent historian), Lala Suraj Nandan Prasad (eminent paediatrician), Dr Sreenivas (cardiologist and philosopher), B P Srivastava (ophthalmologist), R P Verma (director, science and technology, Bihar), R P Roy (head of PU botany department and Jawaharlal Nehru Fellow),   (paediatrician), Chedi Chaudhary (ophthalmologist) and Anmola Sinha (gynaecologist). 
 
 The Hathwa Raj Scholarship Trust also used to help the poor and meritorious scholars to carry out higher studies in reputed institutions.
 
 Earlier, PU scholars and faculty members used to take advantage of Fulbright Scholarships of the USA, Cambridge-Nehru Fellowships of the UK and Humboldt Research Fellowships of Germany, but few scholars these days are being awarded these scholarships. 
 
 Till the late 1970s, a number of PU faculty members, including G P Sinha (labour and social welfare), S N Das (chemistry), K M Tiwary (English), Chetkar Jha (political science), Y D Prasad (history),   (botany), J B P Sinha (sociology) Jagannath Thakur (physics), N K Mishra ( zoology) and Hetukar Jha ( sociology) were awarded Fulbright scholarships. All these scholars did pioneer work in their respective fields, said PU history department former head Y D Prasad who has also been a Fulbright scholar. 
 
 In April 2012, PU entered into a tie-up with Fulbright-Nehru fellowships with a view to allowing the university teachers to visit the US universities for upgrading their knowledge and honing their teaching skills. But hardly any PU faculty member visited the US following this agreement made under faculty exchange programme. 
 
 The old system of awarding scholarships to poor and meritorious students enrolled in different academic programmes of PU is almost dead. Not a single scholarship has been given to any scholar in the last 25 years. 
 
 Till the late 1980s, hundreds of talented boys and girls admitted to different colleges and postgraduate departments used to receive the national merit scholarship, state merit scholarship, merit-cum-poverty scholarship and national loan scholarship, depending on the marks they obtained in the last qualifying examination. 
 
 However, the system of scholarships was stopped due to reasons best known to the state government and the universities, and many talented students were compelled to discontinue their studies owing to financial crunch, said   principal Radha Kant Prasad.
 
 PU VC Ras Bihari Prasad Singh has of late initiated steps to revive all the dead scholarships and endowments in the university.
 
 
