PANAJI: The Union ministry of mines has invited objections and suggestions for the draft national mineral   (DNMP). The policy, which states that the private sector will be encouraged to take up exploration, also spells out that the government intends to grant   ‘industry’ status. 

 “Mining needs to be carried out in an environmentally-sustainable manner, keeping stakeholders’ interest in mind,” it states. “It shall also be ensured that the regulatory environment is conducive to ease of doing business with simpler, time-bound procedures for obtaining clearances.” 
 
 “Since mining contributes significantly to state revenues by way of auctions there is a need for an efficient regulatory mechanism with enabling e-governance systems to prevent illegal mining.”
 
 An inter-ministerial body, with members from the ministries of mines, earth sciences, environment, forest, and climate change may need to be constituted to institutionalise a mechanism to ensure sustainable mining with adequate concerns for environmental, social, and economic issues in mining areas. 
 
 “Steps shall be taken to facilitate financing of mine development and also exploration being integral to the mining project for which efforts shall be made to grant mining the status of industry,” stated the union ministry of mines in the draft policy.
 
 It also states that in order to ensure the enforcement of mining plans, the Indian bureau of mines ( ) and state directorates of mining and geology will be strenghtened with adequate manpower and equipment. Skillsets, too, are set to be upgraded. 
 
 While government agencies would continue to perform survey and exploration tasks, the private sector too would be encouraged to take up these activities. Government agencies will expend public funds particularly in areas where private sector investments are not forthcoming due to reasons such as high uncertainties.
 
 The policy states that efforts shall be made by the government to establish a mining tenement system, which would primarily involve automating the entire concession life cycle using state-of-the-art IT system.
 
 The ministry of mines said that the conservation of minerals shall be construed not in the restrictive sense of abstinence from consumption or preservation for use in the distant future, but as a positive concept leading to augmentation of the reserve/resource base. There shall be an adequate and effective legal and institutional framework mandating zero-waste mining as the ultimate goal and commitment to prevent sub-optimal and unscientific mining.
 
 The policy also states that mining infrastructure requires a special thrust as the economic efficiency of evacuation of minerals from pit mouth to user point or port or rail head is closely linked to the end use value of the mineral and of the viability of the industry producing and using the mineral. While local evacuation networks will be encouraged to be built in an integrated manner along with developing the mineral block, dedicated mineral corridors shall be planned to facilitate transport of minerals from mining areas in hinterland.
 
 It states that extraction of minerals impacts other natural resources like land, water, air and forest. It is necessary to take a comprehensive view to facilitate the choice or order of land use keeping in view the needs of development as well as needs of protecting the forest, environment and ecology, it says.
 
 
