THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: When the driver of a private bus chose to ignore traffic signal and jumped a red light, he ended up taking the life of a 74-year-old pedestrian. The incident happened on the busy MG Road stretch near the Overbridge Junction on Thursday morning.  , hailing from  , is the deceased. The police have taken the driver of the bus, Ramachandran, into custody for causing death by negligence. 

 It was only a week ago TOI had reported that majority of pedestrians killed in road accidents were senior citizens and rash and negligent driving was the cause of accidents. 
 
 According to city traffic police, the accident happened at 9.40am on Thursday. The accident was caused by the bus 'MAR Travels' that was conducting service between   and Pappanamcode. 
 
 Raveendran was crossing the road when the bus that was coming from   direction jumped the red light and proceeded towards Thampanoor direction and in the process knocked him down and ran him over. Raveendran was immediately rushed to the nearby SP Fort Hospital. But, by 10.20am the doctors declared him dead.
 
 City traffic circle inspector (South) T Anilkumar said that the police could not get more details of the deceased other than his name, age and place. The body is kept in the mortuary of the   after conducting inquest. Post-mortem examination will be conducted on Friday. 
 
 In another accident reported in the district on Thursday, a 73-year-old woman was run over by a train while she was crossing the railway track. The mishap occurred near Parassala railway station outside the city around 10.30am. 
 
 The police said that Yasodha, residing near Parassala railway station is the deceased. The mishap occurred while she was returning home after visiting a hospital. The body of the deceased was handed over to the family after conducting post-mortem examination. She leaves behind sons, Murugan, Biju and Saji. 
 
 In an accident that occurred near Malayam under Nemom police station limits, three men riding on two motorcycles suffered injuries after their vehicles collided around 7.45pm on Thursday. 
 
 
