KOLKATA: Getting the tipple of your choice from retail liquor outlets may get increasingly difficult over the next one week as many distributors have stopped buying fresh stock in anticipation of a change in how the trade runs.

 The liquor trade is waiting for the   State Beverages Corporation ( ) to take over the distribution part of the business from January 18. All districts expect Kolkata have already switched over to the new system, in which this state-run corporation has rep-laced private distributors.
 
 There is no official word from the state excise department but a large section of the liquor trade in Kolkata says excise officials have “told them to be ready for this change”. “We have been told that January 18 might be the switch-over date when the state-run agency takes over distribution of liquor,” a prominent city distributor said. “So most of us have stopped buying fresh stock as we do not want to be saddled with bottles that we cannot sell,” he added.
 
 “There has not been any official communication. We are monitoring the situation,” a senior state excise department official told TOI.
 
 “The government has, anyway, decided on the switch from private distributors to a state-run agency and this has already been implemented elsewhere in Bengal. So, if distributors think that a switch-over is imminent, one cannot fault them,” he said, adding that an official communication would be issued shortly.
 
 December and January are high-consumption months, with the average consumption of liquor in January being 11-13 lakh cases and 21 lakh cases for beer (a case has a dozen 750-ml liquor bottles and 650-ml beer bottles). There may be a marginal decline in consumption because of this proposed switch, say officials, but they are confident that this is a temporary hiccup.
 
 Bevco will have two warehouses in   and  , from where retail outlets will have to buy their stock. “The consignments, which come after the planned switch, will go directly to these two warehouses,” a distributor explained.
 
 What may have also affected the trade is that the Government Receipt Portal System (called GRIPS in short) will be non-functional for maintenance from Saturday evening to Tuesday morning; it is this portal through which excise, fees and other taxes are deposited.
 
 Liquor consumption spiked by 30% in December 2017 compared to December 2016 and the expected revenue from liquor sales is around Rs 420 crore for this month.
 
 
