HYDERABAD: The rape of a 35-year-old woman at   ( ) on Thursday exposed the poor security set-up at the state-run health facility. The situation is so pathetic that recently some patients and attendants, who had stayed at  , were found dead in a sleeping posture. Ironically, hospital staff discovered the death only after the body started emitting a stench..

 Two days before the horrific incident, Hyderabad police had a meeting with OGH authorities and insisted that they improve security, including installation of closed circuit television (CCTV) cameras at the waiting hall. However, their fears came true and the incident took place on the premises.
  
  
 During the meeting, which was attended by assistant commissioner of police, Sultan Bazar, Chetana Mylabhutala, Afzalgunj inspector P Gnanendar Reddy, OGH superintendent Dr B Nagender and other officials, police had flagged three important issues —.installation of additional CCTV cameras, improving lighting at dark spots and change the security agency.
 
 “We specifically wanted CCTV at the waiting hall since many patients and attendants, due to various reasons like chronic illness, died at the waiting hall. We registered cases under Section 174 (suspicious death) of the CrPC. We also suggested that CCTVs should be in place at several other locations, including out-patient block,’’ sources in Hyderabad police told TOI. Ward boy B Nagaraju took the woman from the waiting hall on the ground floor and violated her on the first floor.
 
 The officials said several areas, including OP, were not used during the night and would be without lighting. Police suggested that grills be set up to deny entry for anyone during night-time, improve lighting near mortuary and change the existing security agency.
 
 When contacted, OGH superintendent Nagender said, “We had a security meeting with police the previous day. We will put in place new security measures soon. We will hold one more meeting with police to decide locations where CCTVs need to be set up and lighting to be improved,’’ he added.
 
 
  
 
 
