The much-awaited film policy of the UP government was finally released a few days ago at the UP Investor’s Summit in Lucknow. A booklet detailing the policy was released in the presence of Dr Neelkanth Tiwari, minister of state for Law and Justice, Information, Sports and Youth Welfare,  , chairman Film Bandhu and producers-directors Sudhanshu Vats, Subhash Ghai,  ,  , Anurag Kashyap,   and actor-turned politician Ravi Kishan.
With several new heads added to the previous one, the new film policy makes it even more attractive for filmmakers from across the world to shoot in  . "This policy aims at promoting talent and generating employment and revenue in the state," says Awanish Awasthi, principal secretary Information and head of Film Bandhu, adding, “We are following the basic rule of Vasudev Kutumbakam in which we have made a provision of granting subsidy to regional films also which will be shot in the state. So if a Telugu or a Tamil film is shot anywhere in UP, that too will be eligible for subsidy. Foreign films shot here will also be elgible for subsidy."
 Awanish adds, "Similarly for the non-resident Indians from UP, if they make a film on the state here, they too will be given a subsidy. So if someone from Mauritius wants to make a film here, after a careful verification, we will provide subsidy to him/her also. There are a lot many things that we have added in the film policy and I’m glad that filmmakers are warming up to it."
 Apart from providing financial aid to filmmakers, the film policy also aims at making provision of state-owned guest houses, rest houses and hotels for filmmakers during shooting in the state. Filmmakers, after requisite permissions and nominal fees will also be able to make use of government airstrips, if the story demands so. Interestingly, the new film policy also includes an annual film award for the films shot in the state organized apart from film festivals, seminars and also the formation of a film development council. Till now, the most attractive scheme of the UP government had been the financial subsidy provided to filmmakers who shot in the state. The same has been included in the film policy too. The new UP Film Policy (2015) offers 50% subsidy of the total cost, for Awadhi, Braj, Bundeli and Bhojpuri films and a maximum of 25% of the total cost for Hindi films and also foreign language films shot in the state. A subsidy of `1 crore will be given if half the film has been shot in UP and with two-thirds of it will make a filmmaker eligible for a subsidy of `2 crore.
 Casting five or more main actors from the state will also fetch the producers a subsidy of upto `25 lakhs, having an all UP cast will fetch the producer `50 lakhs as subsidy.
 Hailing the new film policy of the state, producers and directors from Bollywood say the revised policy will encourage more filmmakers to come to the state to shoot films here, which will in turn generate employment and opportunities for local talent to emerge and be utilised. A few also welcome the move to include use of government owned properties for the film crew’s accommodation and promotion of tourist destinations. 
  
  (L-R) Dr Neelkanth Tiwari, Subhash Ghai, Boney Kapoor, Ravi Kishan and Rahul Mittra at the UP Investor’s Summit, Lucknow (BCCL/ Farhan Ahmed Siddiqui) 
 
 
 SUCH POLICIES EMPOWER FILMMAKERS
 As a producer I know what difficulties a filmmaker faces while shooting a movie. But such policies of the state governments empower us. I don’t think any other state in India provides these kind of facilities to filmmakers. I will any day happily shoot all my films in UP. In fact my next film 'Sultana Daku', with   in the lead, will be shot in UP. Randeep and I will be coming to Lucknow soon for a recce.
 — 
  who’s shot all his films in the state, including 'Bullett Raja'
 
 MAKE A TALENT POOL
 No doubt the policy is very good. It encourages filmmakers to come and shoot in UP, which in turn generates employment and revenue for the state. But it will be even better if the government also makes a talent pool of actors, singers, writers and music composers in the state. Mumbai mein zyaadatar talent UP se hai. Aur na jaane kitne kalakar Mumbai jaate hain aur koi unhe guide karne wala nahi hai aur koi hum filmmakers ko unke baare mein batane wala nahi hai so their talent goes unnoticed. 
 — 
 , producer-director
 
  
  Subhash Ghai (L) and Rahul Mittra at the UP Investor’s Summit, Lucknow (BCCL/ Farhan Ahmed Siddiqui) 
 
  
    (L) and Satish Kaushik (BCCL) 
 
 NO OTHER STATE OFFERS SUCH FACILITIES
 I'm the lucky one to be signing the first form for subsidy for my film 'Main Zinda Hoon; that will be shot entirely in UP. Such policies provide a lot of support to filmmakers. We rarely get this kind of infrastructure and support anywhere else except in UP. That’s why it is becoming a hub of film shoots now. 
 — Producer 
  the first producer to submit a proposal since the new policy came into force, for his film to be shot in UP
 
 OUR STATE IS THE BEST PLACE TO SHOOT A FILM
 Yahan ke jaisi facilities toh kahin hai hi nahi. UP can easily become a centre for shooting. It has good topography, good locations, good connectivity, good hotels and now this film policy. It’s exactly what a filmmakers requires to shoot a film smoothly and without any hassles. Now that the film policy also talks about the development of lesser known tourist destinations for film shoots, I think it’s amazing! People can now see what a beautiful state ours is. Besides this is going to be so profitable for the state. It will generate so much 
 employment and revenue.
 — 'Iss Raat Ki Subah Nahin' filmmaker
  
 
 
  
  (L-R )Madhu Mantena and Boney Kapoor at the UP Investor’s Summit, Lucknow (BCCL/ Farhan Ahmed Siddiqui) 
 
 BOLLYWOOD NOW HAS CONFIDENCE IN SHOOTING IN U.P.
 The Film Bandhu encourages filmmakers like me to shoot here in UP. It’s heartening to know that as of now nearly 43 films are being shot at different places in UP. That shows the kind of confidence filmmakers have in the state and the government. It reflects the ease of shooting in the state. That’s why I shot two of my films here and will be shooting another one as soon as I get the right script. It is this policy which has also made me invest this amount in the state and develop a film studio in Uttar Pradesh.
 — Producer
  has signed a ` 200 crore Memorandum Of Understanding (MoU) with the state government for developing infrastructure for film production, recording and film studios
 
 INDIA’S MOST EXPENSIVE FILM TO BE SHOT IN UTTAR PRADESH
 This film policy has given me the encouragement to shoot one of India’s most expensive film in UP. We have planned to shoot an extensive part of the film at locations around the state. The budget of the film, as of now, is `500 crores. I have signed an MOU with the UP government to this effect and I have been assured of all support from the government for this.” 
 — 'Udta Punjab' co-producer
 , part of whose next mega tri-series film 'Ramayana', will be shot in UP
 
 
 
 
