MUMBAI:A manager with a leading advertising firm was gypped of nearly Rs 1.4 lakh after his cellphone was allegedly cloned and bank details fraudulently accessed. 

 The victim,   (38), a Versova resident, said that his ordeal was far from over after his money was siphoned off as he had to make three trips to the police station—including a late-night one with his wife and toddler—to get an FIR registered. And now, the bank, after conducting an enquiry, has refused to revert the money, stating that there was no deficiency in service on their part. 
 
 Das, a Kolkata native, who works in the eastern suburbs, said that around 4.45am on February 26 he woke up all of a sudden and checked his phone out of habit. He was taken aback to find a flurry of text messages relating to transactions made through his account that he has with the Kolkata branch of a bank. 
 
 The first message was received at 12.45am for regenerating the   (netbanking password). A one-time password (OTP) had been sent to his phone number and the IPIN had been changed. The next text was sent at 1.20am for adding a beneficiary named Arvind Kumar for a fund transfer, along with an  . This was followed by a text at 1.24am to add another beneficiary, also named Arvind Kumar. The third text was received at 1.32am to add a beneficiary named Arvind Sharma. Half an hour later, a text was received initiating a transfer of Rs 50,000 to Arvind Kumar along with an OTP. The transfer was successful. Two more texts followed, at 2.04am and 2.10am, for fund transfers of Rs 50,000 and Rs 41,000 to Arvind Kumar and Arvind Sharma. All the transfers were made to different private bank accounts in Pune. There was also a missed call from the bank at
 2.30am. The bank blocked Das’s netbanking thereafter. Das then called up the bank’s customer care and was instructed to lodge an FIR and fill a dispute form. In the morning, he rushed to Versova police station, where the cops accepted an application about the fraud. Around 6.15am, Das received a call back from the bank’s customer care and the executive told him that their team had suspected something amiss with his netbanking transactions and had hence, called him at 2.30am. Bus as Das did not answer their call (he was asleep and his phone was on vibration mode), the customer care team blocked his netbanking account to prevent further misuse. 
 
 “My husband again went to the police station in the evening but the cops seemed reluctant to lodge an FIR. At night, we decided to go for the third time and not return till an FIR was registered. We had to take our two-year-old child along as there is nobody to look after her. We returned at 3am after all formalities were completed,” Das’s wife, Paromita, told TOI. 
 
 “After the incident, the bank did not respond for over a week. They told us to wait till March 15 for an enquiry. Finally, my husband received a mail from the bank stating they had followed all procedures, such as sending OTPs to his phone and calling to check if the transactions were fraudulent. They suggested his bank details as well as mobile has been compromised and we may have knowingly or unknowingly shared the details. We haven’t shared anything and cops have been unable to track the culprit,” she added. A senior police official said a probe was on.
 
