NAGPUR: While strongly opposing bail plea of six accused in the multi-crore irrigation scam, the state Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) pleaded before the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court that they may tamper with evidence. In its affidavit filed on Monday, ACB also said it apprehended the accused may influence the witnesses and create hurdles during the trial, if released on bail.

 Justice Vinay Deshpande then adjourned the hearing till March 12 after additional public prosecutor VA Thakre sought more time. He, however, extended the interim protection from arrest granted to all six accused by a week. 
 
 ACB’s affidavit was in response to the accused’s petition challenging Nagpur sessions court’s orders of rejecting their bail plea. They included RJ Shah Company owners Tejaswini and Kalindi Shah (sisters), D Thakkar Construction’s directors Vishal and Jigar Thakker (brothers), their father  , employee  , and technical head Ramesh Kumar Soni, having power of attorney. Of them Jigar (41), committed suicide on February 27, by shooting himself inside his car near Marine Plaza Hotel in Mumbai’s Marine Drive.
 
 While praying for rejection of their bail plea, ACB reiterated its accusations against the petitioners, charging them with rigging the tender process and cheating VIDC. “Applicants didn’t have a joint venture (JV) registration certificate, neither had partnership deed for the Mokhabardi Lift Irrigation Scheme’s (LIS) tail branch canal work, when they bid for it and thus violated the entire process.”
 
 Quoting contents from charge sheet, ACB said petitioners failed to disclose that they were doing Dagadparwa project under VIDC while bidding for the Mokhabardi tender. They also submitted false undertaking while submitting pre-qualified documents that no VIDC work was pending with their firms.
 
 Further quoting the memorandum and Articles of Association and balance sheet of JV partners   and D Thakkar Constructions, the ACB said two directors, Pravin and son Jigar, were not only common, but also controlled a majority of shares in both companies. “They control all affairs in these firms and hence it is clear that sister concern had participated in the tendering process, thus violating the principle of secrecy and fair competition,” it said.
 
 ACB added that even the earnest money deposit (EMD) of third competitor Shrinivasa Construction was paid from bank account of D Thakkar, thus defying very purpose of floating tender. Moreover, the work experience certificate submitted by JV are sub-contract works of other competitor SN Thakkar and no legal permission was taken from the competent authority before giving a sub-contract. The competing partner— SN Thakkar— used same experience certificates on VIDC’s other tender process.
 
 ACB claimed that D Thakkar’s staffer named Matkar had signed as representative of SN Thakkar during bid submission and opening process on same day. Though both firms claimed to have separate entities, their letterheads have same telephone (25124255) and fax (25115921) numbers of MTNL. “D Thakkar’s director Gupta is even supervising SN Thakkar’s work. Hence, it is very clear that both firms have many things in common and can’t be said as competitors, and there is no free and fair competition in the tendering process,” the ACB said.
 
 
