JALANDHAR: After a gap of three years, the   (PTU)  , has got a full-time vice-chancellor (VC) with appointment of Ajay K Sharma. He was working as the director of   (NIT) Delhi so far and also had the additional charge of NIT, Hamirpur.

 With a doctorate in studies on broadband optical communication systems and networks, Sharma remained professor of electronics, communication engineering and computer science at NIT Jalandhar for over 15 years.
 
 His appointment has come at a point when PTU is in the news for the wrong reasons as his predecessor   was recently arrested by the vigilance bureau for alleged irregularities in appointments and some financial transactions. Arora had relinquished the charge in January 2015 after completing two terms of three years each, and after that for two years more during the SAD-BJP regime.
 
 For a little less than one year, the   government continued with the ad hoc arrangement of giving the charge of VC to secretary of technical education department.
 
 The notification of Sharma’s appointment was issued by J M Balamurugan, office secretary to   governor, on Monday which said that he was being appointed for three years. The governor is the chancellor of PTU.
 
 Sharma did his graduation in electronics and electrical communication engineering from Guru Nanak Dev Engineering College, Ludhiana, in 1986 and then masters in electronics and control from   (BITS) Pilani in 1994. He complete his PhD in 1999.
 
 His major areas of interest are broadband optical wireless communication systems and networks, dispersion compensation, fiber nonlinearities, optical soliton transmission, WDM systems and networks, Radio-over-Fiber (RoF) and wireless sensor networks and computer communication. He has published 272 research papers in the international/national journals/conferences and 12 books. He has supervised 18 PhD and 48 MTech thesis.
 
 He is technical reviewer of reputed international journals like: Optical Engineering, Optics letters, Optics Communication, Digital Signal Processing. He had been appointed as member of ‘Technical Committee on Telecom’ under IASTD Canada for the term 2004-2007 and he is life member of Indian Society for Technical Education (ISTE) New Delhi.
 
 
