
 It’s exam season and pressures is high everywhere. While it is no news that the onset of semester examinations is accompanied by unreasonably high stress and anxiety, figures show that with the increasingly competitive nature of academics and industry employment, these unhealthy manifestations of exam nerves are only getting worse. Things aren’t all bleak though, and there are several top universities across the globe that are being supremely mindful of their students’ wellbeing and are, thereby, taking some unique and liberal steps to help ease their pressure. It’s time more colleges in our country adopt a similar attitude. Here are a few things they can do to help students overcome stress...
 
 
 
 A rather popular option among student-friendly campuses, canine therapy is quickly becoming a rage. Having the company of a furry friend for even a short period has proven to be an excellent method to soothe frayed nerves; dogs are reliable and friendly animals to offer this support to students. Another kind of therapy being offered in several universities is free massages that not only help students get rid of any mental strain, but also serve as a refreshing physical break from being hunched over mounds of papers. 
 
 
 
 Also termed ‘nap zones’ or ‘snooze rooms’, colleges like the   and   have piloted the idea of having allocated spaces on their grounds for students to take quick power naps between their hectic study schedules. “Since most students prefer to study in campus libraries, these areas are wonderful places to set up such napping stations in, giving students the chance to guiltlessly take a much-deserved respite from their work,” says Ayush Goel, a second year student of Commerce at Christ (Deemed to be) University.
 
 
 
 It goes unsaid that it is one of the primary responsibilities of colleges to take steps to ensure the comfort and welfare of the students on their roster. Several universities already employ full-time counsellors to provide guidance and support to students. “However, during exams, these measures need to be amped up, and regular communal sessions or seminars on managing stress will go a long way in improving students’ mental health,” says Varun Dinesh, a sophomore student of Psychology and Communication Studies at Christ (Deemed to be) University.
 
 
 
 Regarded as one of the best ways to keep your mind and body healthy, yoga has been the go-to for busting any mental unease — especially in India. Offering students weekly classes in yoga for free, therefore, can be a great step to help alleviate their mood. An additional benefit from this practice is that several asanas in yoga have been known to contribute to memory retention and concentration, so these classes will also then help students perform optimally in their tests.
  
  
 
 
 
 Another good idea to take students’ minds off from their stress and workload for a while is to arrange outings for them, ideally on a comfortable date before the onset of the exams. One-day trips are fun, and being in the company of friends in new places is sure to serve as a stress-buster for students. “If all-day getaways are not a viable option, alternatives like movie nights or picnics and campfires will undoubtedly do the job,” offers Anjana R, a second year student of Design at  .
 
 
 
 Almost everybody looks back on their childhood as the days of ‘real fun’, where no worry or tension could touch us. Going by this idea, colleges can offer the best kind of pick-me-ups for their students by setting up ‘De-stress Stations’ — that is, tables or common spaces equipped with board games, puzzles, colouring books and maybe even bouncy castles, intended to transport the students back to their carefree days, at least temporarily.
 
 — Sanjana Sindhe
 
