LUCKNOW: A year after it carried out UP’s first terrorist encounter in Lucknow, the Anti-Terrorist Squad claims to have de-radicalised seven UP youths who were allegedly radicalised by nine   recruiters, including Saifullah.

 On March 8 last year, UP ATS had gunned down Saifullah after a 12-hour operation in Haji colony of Dubagga on Lucknow’s outskirts. The tip-off was provided by Telangana cops.
 
  
  
 
 In subsequent action, ATS sleuths had nabbed remaining eight aides of Saifullah from Kanpur and Etawah.
 
 Among those were Atif  , ISIS in charge of UP, and  .
 
 The accused were active in radicalising UP youth and recruiting them for the international terror group ISIS.
 
 The case was later taken up by the National Investigation Agency ( ).
 
 All eight accused are currently lodged in jail in Delhi and the trail is on.
 
 IG ATS   told TOI that they have de-radicalised seven youths from different parts of the state in the past one year.
 
 The de-radicalisation programme was initiated by ATS for youth who were found influenced by Saifullah and his aides, said Arun.
 
 Explaining the programme module, SSP ATS Umesh Srivastava said they kept a watch on online activities of the radicalised youths after Saifullah’s encounter.
 
 “A sub-inspector was made in charge and family members of such youths were taken into confidence. These youths were not found involved in any terror activity and had merely been influenced by ISIS ideology,” said ATS SSP.
 
 “The ATS sleuths also took the help of clerics to prevent these youths from going astray. The youths belong to low-income group and efforts are on to provide them employment, added Srivastava. Arun said SPOT (Special Police Operation Team) was also set up after the encounter for keeping watch on terror modules that target youth on social media and in the state.
 
  and Saifullah had translated ISIS literature in Roman script and Hindi from Arabic and Persian and circulated it on social media.
 
 NIA in its chargesheet stated that Muzaffar had admitted that they had shot dead a retired school principal, Ramesh Chandra Shukla, in Kanpur in 2016 as a shooting practice with .30 calibre pistol.
 
