GAYA: Elaborate security arrangements have been made for the three-day   celebrations beginning Sunday.

 The main function will be held near the shrine sanctum sanctorum on Monday morning. Governor Satya Pal Malik will be the chief guest. Buddha Jayanti symbolises the triple coincidence of Buddha’s birth, enlightenment and salvation (death) taking place on the same day of the summer full moon.
 
 Gaya   Garima Malik said about 400 police constables and 70 officers of different ranks would be deployed for the event. “Besides regular policemen, two quick response teams of the central police forces will also be ready to meet any eventuality. Anti-sabotage teams too have been constituted,” the SSP added.
 
 Sources said tight security arrangements have been made this time on the basis of inputs received from different agencies. Low intensity blasts, allegedly engineered by terrorists, have rocked   twice in the last five years. The first blast took place on July 7, 2013. It was followed by another blast in July last year at  , a short distance away from the main shrine.
 
 A tent city has been established on the western outskirts of Bodh Gaya for accommodation of Buddhist devotees reaching here for the celebrations.
 
 Bodh Gaya Temple Management Committee ( ) officials said representatives of Bodh Gaya-based foreign monasteries have also been roped in to make the event more meaningful and diverse.
 
 While the ordinary Buddha followers, known as laity, will be accommodated in the tent city, separate arrangements have been made to accommodate 7,000 monks in the Kalchakra Maidan to the northwest of Buddha’s seat of enlightenment.
 
 District magistrate Abhishek Singh has asked the officials concerned to ensure uninterrupted water and power supply during the three-day event. BTMC will also arrange free e-rickshaws for old and differently-abled devotees. Altogether eight e-rickshaws have been requisitioned for ferrying the devotees in the restricted zone, where entry of motorised vehicles is banned. Two air-conditioned buses will also ply between Gaya railway station and Bodh Gaya for the convenience of the devotees.
 
