At several major intersections in the city, it doesn’t take much to spot vehicles on the   of the road. Laxity in enforcement of   rules by police officials and tardy action against offenders have added to the problem. Commuters usually don’t pay heed to traffic rules to save a few minutes and some drops of fuel. But in some areas, long detours aren’t helping, forcing people to take the wrong side. 

 
 
 
 Driving on the wrong side is the trend for vehicles coming from Moulsari Avenue at DLF 3 to reach Ambience Mall. Commuters who are trying to reach Ambience Mall from the opposite side (NH 8) are forced to travel an additional five km towards Delhi and take the U-turn at   on the Delhi-Gurugram expressway. 
 
  
 Vinod Kumar, a DLF 3 resident, said, “Every third vehicle which is coming from DLF 3 side invariably takes the wrong side to reach Ambience Mall. Why would anyone travel an extra four kilometres till Rajokri when they can simply take the wrong side and travel 500 metres on the Ambience Road to reach the mall?” 
 
 To solve the problem, NHAI is planning to make a U-turn at the exact place at Sirhaul where the toll collection point was. The detailed project report for the same will be out this month and then the process of planning the U-turn at Ambience Mall will start, which is expected to solve the issue of wrong side driving at this point.
 
 
 
 
 Residents of societies such as Green Home CGHS Limited are not willing to take the right U-turn towards Sector 52 to go towards Tau Devi Lal Bio-Diversity Park. 
 
 Navdeep Kaur, a Sector 52 resident, said, “A major accident is waiting to happen at the bio-diversity park intersection. People coming out of the societies turn right and come face-to-face with vehicles going towards Sector 52. They don’t even want to travel 500 metres to take a U-turn. Even though no accidents have taken place yet, commuters who are going straight often get caught in huge jams with criss-cross traffic.” 
 
 There hasn’t been any deployment of traffic police officers at the bio-diversity junction to stop vehicles from taking the wrong side.
 
 
