NEW DELHI: Around a week after TOI reported about a non-functional public   complex at   in east Delhi, the 84-seater facility has been re-opened. 

 The report, carried on December 26, had highlighted how women in the area had to face problems as due to safety concerns, they needed to be escorted by a woman family member while relieving themselves out in the open. At night, they avoided going out at all as anti-socials in the area used to make their MMS and harass them later. 
 
 The complex was closed after its water motor stopped working around six months ago.
 
  councillor Kuldeep Kumar said on Friday, “Around 200 women are now using the complex every day. For slum dwellers, re-opening of the toilets is like a blessing.” He claimed that he had been trying to convince the authorities to get the motor repaired or replaced for a long time. 
 
 The complex is located close to a cluster of jhuggis housing hundreds of people who do not have household toilets. Although many of them are ready to spend their savings for constructing a toilet at home, they can’t do so as the area is not connected with a sewer line.
 
 In 2017, East   (EDMC) constructed a number of public toilets and renovated many others to stop people from defecating in the open. All toilet complexes are free. 
 
 The civic body declared east Delhi open-defecation free in October. In some places, the corporation had even took help of civic defence personnel to force people not to defecate in the open. 
 
 The complex at Khichripur is clean and well maintained with all doors having locks. However, a couple of toilet complexes that are counted among the existing infrastructure are dysfunctional, with some of these premises being used for parking vehicles or stocking vegetables, or as godowns. 
 
 Shahdara (south) deputy commissioner Atik Ahmad said, “We have decided to hand over the toilet complex to the users for running it. A committee headed by the Kalyanpuri councillor will be formed for this purpose. Besides an EDMC official, locals will be made members in this committee.” 
 
 The committee members will keep the keys and take steps to run and maintain the toilets, he said.
 
 On Saturday, an awareness programme will be conducted in the Khichripur slums to urge people to use the toilet complex.
 
 
