Two days after praising former PM H D Deve Gowda, Prime Minister   on Thursday did a Uturn, calling upon the people of Karnataka not to waste their votes on the JD(S).

 
 "No matter what political pundits say, JD(S) can only limp to third position. It will not form the government on its own. It cannot remove the Congress. Such being the case, should the wise voters of Karnataka waste their valuable vote on JD(S)?" Modi told a well-attended rally at Kengeri, on the outskirts of Bengaluru on Thursday.
 
 Kengeri is considered the gateway to the Vokkaliga heartland of Ramanagara and Mandya, the JD(S) bastion.
 
 Modi alleged that JD(S) has joined hands with communal forces and supporters of terrorism to win elections. "By doing so, it has not done any good to the people of Karnataka," he added.
 
 Referring to pre-poll surveys that predicted a fractured verdict in Karnataka, Modi said whenever there was talk of a hung assembly,   had emerged victorious and Karnataka would not be an exception. "It is the Congress which is spreading the word about hung assembly. It means BJP is going to win and the enthusiasm of the people also suggests the same," Modi said.
 
 Earlier in Kalaburagi, Modi sought to whip up Dalit sentiments by highlighting how Congress had dumped its seniormost leader   by choosing   over him for the chief minister's post.
 
 "The Congress only pays lip sympathy to Dalits, to gain political mileage. It sings about Dalits in the runup to the polls, but look at what the Congress has done to its big leader Mallikarjun Kharge (leader of the opposition in Lok Sabha)," Modi said, and added: "Kharge was not made chief minister of Karnataka in 2013 despite being promised."
 
 In the same breath, Modi targeted Kharge. "When Congress comes to power only a few families benefit," he said, throwing a poser at the crowd: "Do you know how much wealth Kharge has? Has it helped the Dalits?"
 
 
 
 In his half-hour speech at the Bengaluru rally, Modi mounted a scathing attack on the Siddaramaiah government, highlighting issues such as the scrapped steel bridge project, frothing Bellandur lake, vanishing lakes and the involvement of Congress MLA N A Haris' son Mohammad Nalpad in an attempt to murder case.
 
 "Congress has spoilt the name of Bengaluru in the eyes of the world. They (Congress) have turned the Silicon Valley of India into a valley of sins, the computer capital into a crime capital, Garden City into a garbage city, startup hub into a pothole club and from having a cosmopolitan culture to a culture of chaos," Modi said.
 
 Referring to the steel bridge project the state government had to drop owing to a public outcry, Modi said: "It was not a steel bridge, but a steal bridge. It was meant to siphon out money to the residences of Congress minsters. But vigilant Bengalureans and BJP workers opposed it tooth and nail, and ensured the project was stalled."
 
 
 
 While trying to prove a point that Congress has been insulting the "sons of Karnataka" for decades, Modi recalled the incident of Gen KS Thimayya being taken to task by Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru after the 1948 victory over Pakistan. "When India won the war against Pakistan in 1948 under the leadership of Gen Thimayya, PM Nehru and then defence minister Krishna Menon repeatedly insulted Thimayya," he said.
 
 What escaped Modi's mind was that Menon was defence minister from April 1957 to October 1962. Swaraj Party founder Yogendra Yadav tweeted: "No sir, Krishna Menon was Defence Minister from April 1957 to October 1962. General Thimmayya was Army Chief from May 1957 to May 1961. Sir can't the PMO afford a fact-checker? It's so embarrassing!"
 
 
 
 Prime Minister Narendra Modi found himself in the middle of a controversy on Thursday when he shared the dais with one of the Reddy brothers in Ballari.G Somashekara Reddy, younger brother of tainted mining baron G Janardhana Reddy and BJP candidate from Ballari City, was on the dais with Modi. A case was filed against Somashekara Reddy for allegedly threatening conservator of forests UV Singh when he visited Ramgadh reserve forest area in Sandur taluk in 2009, in connection with the illegal mining investigation. Modi claimed the Congress is insulting the people of Ballari by portraying it as home to only thieves and looters. Soon, Siddaramaiah tweeted, "In Bellry (sic) you are asking for vote for a candidate who is the brother of the mining mafia kingpin G Janardhana Reddy who brought shame to Ballari & the state. And you say Congress has insulted Bellary. Pray, how?"
 
 
