KANNUR: Rubbishing CPM’s allegation that there is huge difference of opinion among those supported the agitation by ‘Vayalkilikal’ and that communal forces have hijacked their campaign against the NH bypass which would bisect their paddy fields, the local activists of   said they would never compromise on their ideological stand against what they called ‘development extremism’. 

 “We started our agitation for a cause and we will fight till we win. We will not yield to any political agenda to hijack our campaign, though we accept the support of all parties and groups who approve our stand,” said  , who is at the forefront of the agitation.
 
 “Though the agitation has been going on for quite long, the government or the authorities have not come forward for any discussion, even after the residents and organizations like Sasthra Sahithya Parishad (KSSP) mooted some viable and environmental-friendly alternatives,” he said.
 
 “In this condition, if the government and the authorities are adamant on their stand and they do not pay heed to our demands, we may also think of organizing a long march like the farmers of Maharashtra did,” said Suresh.
 
 Reiterating that their model for this agitation was the successful fight against the airport at  , he said the political parties like BJP and   had joined hands there.
 
 “The effort to brand us as ‘Sanghis’ is a conspiracy because know the world has come to know about the ‘financial game’ behind this development agenda, and some vested interests aim to get huge money from demolishing hills to fill the land and also mining the clay from the fields,” said Suresh.
 
 The second phase of the agitation, which began on Sunday, has the support of various political parties and environmental groups. What upsets the CPM was the support extended by the BJP. The CPM has also launched a counter campaign, terming those who oppose the bypass anti-development elements and saying that extremist groups were supporting it.
 
 But the stand of   is that development should not be at the cost of environment.“Even the proposal for the elevated corridor through our paddy fields is not acceptable to us because there are alternatives, which the so-called campaigners of development do not want to explore,” said Suresh.
 
 
