AURANGABAD: Taking cognizance of the frequent complaints of torture in police custody, all the police station chiefs have been briefed about the precautions they should take to avoid incidents of   of the arrested/detained suspects.

  (headquarters) Deepali Dhate Ghadge held a closed door conference at the commissionerate on the issue on Saturday.
 
 Ghadge said, “Custodial torture and deaths are kind of cases that bring down the morale of the force. This session was a kind of a refresher course, wherein police station chiefs were briefed about the existing procedures as well as the latest guidelines in terms of arrest, detention and interrogation of the suspect.
 
 The guidelines have been given by the apex court, different high courts, as well as the central and state governments.
 
 The briefing was carried out by head constable  , who is a faculty for the state police’s in-service training programme for officers, and a key member of the city police’s conviction cell.
 
 An officer who attended the session, said, “Fearing that the suspect named in the FIR may run away, many a times our men detain him first and then register the FIR, which is in contradiction to the laws.”
 
 During the session, even minute things such as definition of arrest were explained and elaborated, apart from asking them to focus on detecting cases the smart way, participants in the conference said.
 
 Citing the Supreme Court’s landmark judgment in the case, DK Basu versus West Bengal, the faculty asked the officers to ensure that they as well as their sub-ordinates follow the 11-point guideline while arresting a suspect.
 
 As per the guidelines, the officer should introduce himself and display his identity while arresting a suspect, inform him about reason for arrest, inform his kin, take his friend or family member as one of the witnesses in the arrest form, take him for medical check-up, if need be, help him get a lawyer of his choice, interrogate him in the presence of his kin or friends, and so on.
 
 
