THANE: The   (MACT) awarded a compensation of Rs 30.8 lakh to the family of a   (TMC) driver who was mowed down in 2014 in Padgha. 

 The judge directed the two respondents - Sanjay Wagh of Nashik, who owns the car involved in the accident, and   - to make the payment with interest at 8% per annum since the date of filing of the claim.
 
 The widow and two sons, both above 30, of  , 54, had sought a compensation of Rs 50 lakh after submitting that he used to earn a salary of Rs 37,000 per month. K D Vadane, the judge, said though the sons are earning, it does not deter them from getting compensation for the accidental death of their father.
 
 The court was told that on October 24, 2014, at about 7.15 pm, Chavan was standing in front of a company's gate on the   near Kukse village when a speeding car rammed into him and fled. He was taken to the   in Bhiwandi, where the doctors declared him dead. A criminal offence was registered with the Padgha police station against the car driver.
 
 The insurance company contested the claim and denied that the accident occurred due to rash and negligent driving by the man at the wheel of the car. Pointing out that an autopsy had shown the presence of alcohol in the victim, it claimed Chavan had lost control and come in the way of the car.
 
 But lawyers of the Chavan family said mere presence of alcohol could not be grounds to hold that Chavan had been negligent. There was no evidence presented to show quantity and percentage of liquor contents found.
 
 Agreeing, the judge said: "...merely alcohol being detected in post-mortem report is not sufficient to hold negligence on the part of deceased". He added that police papers on record show that the car was being driven at high speed, and in a rash and negligent manner, at the time of the accident. Moreover, after hitting Chavan, the driver fled, which itself amounts to negligence. The judge said 80% of contributory negligence was on the part of the car driver and 20% on Chavan's part.
 
 When the counsel for the car driver pointed out that the sons were earning and thus, not entitled to any compensation, the judge said the sons are legal heirs of the deceased and are entitled to compensation along with the widow.
 
 
