PATNA: Raj Bhavan is likely to appoint the vice-chancellors and pro-vice-chancellors for the newly created Patliputra, Purnia and Munger universities by mid-March.

 Sources said suitable candidates have been shortlisted for interaction with the respective search committees and interviews have also started.
 
 As many as 34 selected candidates were interviewed for VC and pro-VC of   on Tuesday and 36 candidates interacted with the respective search committee for Patliputra University on Wednesday.
 
 The search committees headed by former UGC chairman Ved Prakash is learnt to have submitted to the chancellor’s office separate panels of five names each recommended for the post of VC and pro-VC in both the universities (Purnia and Patliputra). The interaction of shortlisted candidates for   is likely to be held on March 10. 
 
 Sources said after the submission of names by all three search committees on March 10, the Raj Bhavan will initiate the process of final selection of candidates. 
 
 The state government has already announced the functioning of new universities from the upcoming academic session (2018-19). To start with, the places of functioning of these universities have also been fixed. While Patliputra University (carved out from the  ) will function from MU’s present branch office at Kankarbagh in Patna, Purnia University will functioning from Purnia College building and Munger university from R D and D J College, Munger. 
 
 Besides these three new universities,   (NOU),   Arabic and Persian University (MMHAPU) and Veer Kunwar Singh University (VKSU) are also likely to get new VC or pro-VC soon. 
 
 As many as 88 applications have been received for the post of pro-VC in NOU, while 83 have applied for pro-VC in VKSU. Only 28 candidates have applied for the MMHAPU VC’s post.
 
 While almost all the posts of VCs and pro-VCs in different universities in the state were filled up in the last week of January last year, a few remained vacant. These posts were advertised recently along with those of VCs and pro-VCs in the three new universities.
 
 
