 of one kind or another was the cause of most of the genocide of the twentieth century. Flags are bits of coloured cloth that governments use first to shrink-wrap people's minds and then as ceremonial shrouds to bury the dead.” None other than Man Booker Prize winner Arundhati Roy said this during a speech in 2002, triggering a controversy, expectedly. While most are likely to dismiss the writer’s view as an extreme one, though thought-provoking, the usual lament is that the spirit of nationalism is generally on the wane. A case in point is the controversy surrounding the national anthem, which was made mandatory in movie theatres but after objections were raised, the rule was relaxed.

 This  , we pose the question to prominent personalities from different walks of life – Is nationalism dead or more alive than ever?
 
 
 
  
 
 
 Nationalism is a natural feeling. It has been with us ever since we evolved into community living. At the same time, we always wanted to expand our domain either by befriending or by conquering other communities. It has therefore been a conflicting concept. The conflict has been between remaining where you were and expanding your territory.
 
 For survival, this emotion played a big role. But the desire, when associated with narrow feelings of caste or religion, works against the very survival.
  Nationalism has always been a feeling stemming from identities such as caste and religion. So there is always a danger of it acting as a divisive factor internally and also result in us becoming irrationally selective when it comes to external relations. I am afraid both the dangers are present in Indian nationalism today. It may prevent us from being peaceful at home and getting into associations with others in the world dispassionately.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Among the young generation, the spirit of nationalism is on the increase, in my opinion. Just look at the number of national flags on vehicles on Independence Day or Republic Day. It is much higher than, say, 15 years ago. True, there was some resistance to the national anthem being played in movie theatres but it is a very small minority that harbours such extreme views. Ninety five per cent or more will happily stand up while the anthem is being played and will even be ready to sing along.
 
 If you consider the aspect of giving something back to the society, here again, the younger generation scores over their parents. The earlier generation would donate to temples, churches or mosques, even to political parties, but they were not so keen to contribute to a cause or charity. The younger generation, especially the IT crowd whom I am familiar with, does more by donating or even working as volunteers. These people have contempt for politicians but the main difference is that they contribute without expecting anything in return. The earlier generation who used to be part of service organisations would pool in money to donate to the less privileged but would organise a function so that they get some publicity.
 
 The concept of   has changed for the new gen professionals who would have no problem working along with a Pakistani in a foreign country because they believe that all people are good, only the netas are not. It is in the interest of the leaders to keep the problem simmering in Kashmir, so that they can mobilise people against the ‘enemy’.
 
 
 
 
 As a society, we have never had a strong sense of nationalism. We were a group of warring kings who came together only because of the British. But in France, for example, they have a long history of nationalism and even today, they hate any language other than French being used there. But we are too diverse in India and were never united, originally.
 
 For the present generation, it’s all about the world rather than about India, because the world has become smaller for them, owing to the internet. They have no interest in learning about the freedom struggle either and this is reflected in our poetry and songs. I have published a book of my patriotic poems in the past but no one wants that anymore. It’s probably because such poems, songs and films have a message; the youngsters don’t like to be told anything today, they think they know everything.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 I believe India is a union of many identities, belief systems and ethnicities. It cannot have a single nationality; instead it should be a combination of many. So, a feeling of togetherness should be brought in, without hurting the feelings of any. What we see now is that there is a strong urge to impose the idea of a singular nationality. There is a hard line right wing effort to codify nationalism into a feeling that there is only a singular stream of national feeling with absolutely no pluralities. I don’t think it will work here, simply because it is not the truth about India. We have to redefine the idea of nationalism to develop our own brand of a confederation of identities. The idea of ‘One India’ is actually about understanding and embracing the many Indias that exist within our society. It’s time we redefined and reinvented the age old motto of ‘Unity in Diversity’.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 I feel the importance of being an Indian when I go abroad. That is when we long to come back home, to our land. Our country is the most beautiful of all, rich in values. But within our country, there is division, between North Indians and South Indians, which goes against nationalism.
 
 Every time I hear the national anthem, I get goose bumps. I don’t mind reciting it aloud and stand up wherever I am, be in theatres or in any other event. I don’t think nationalism is diminishing in our society. We can’t expect a teenage girl to be nationalistic but it grows with age, along with your level of maturity and understanding. As you mingle with other cultures or with people from other nations, you understand what is nationalism.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 II believe everyone has that patriotic spirit and the youth must grow up with it regardless of their caste, religion or language. Nationalism loses its spark only when you politicise it. Take for instance, the national anthem being played in theatres or film festivals. I have observed that there are always a few who don’t stand up, just to show their protest. But why give them a reason to revolt by forcing such rules on people? If you pass an order making the National Anthem mandatory, it must also be implemented properly; else you are just mindlessly playing with an important aspect of the country. Ultimately, a theatre is a venue for entertainment; let it stay that way.
 
 When I went to the US, I was amazed by what I saw. Every house has a national flag. In India, to hoist our flag, there are so many laws – it has be raised before sunrise and brought down before sunset. I think the flag should be set free; allow people to carry the flag around proudly and say aloud that they are Indians.
 
  If you look at Bollywood, there are at least two movies about national integration being released. But in Malayalam, till Keerthichakra was released, people weren’t bothered much about what was happening in the border or what the soldiers were going through for the country. When films showing the firing at Kashmir or the insurgency at Assam border come out, it automatically makes people love their country more. However, in our film industry, once you start making such films they start bracketing you as an army director or a war-film director. Most filmmakers don’t want to venture into that territory for fear of that. I am a strong believer that such a segment of filmmakers should exist. In my films, I don’t make the protagonist say Bharat Mata Ki Jai; but that’s the sentiment evoked in the audience through scenes showing the soldiers’ bravery. I believe cinema has to be used positively to kindle patriotic feelings.
 
 
 
