Being in the industry for 37 years does not stop Michelin Star   John Wood from learning, and that’s what he believes in. Bangalore Times caught up with John, who is currently in Bengaluru, for a quick chat where he talks about his love for food, why he thinks   gastronomy is slowly fading out and how people are returning to their roots across the world. Excerpts…

 
 
 I have been here before several times before, both on leisure and business trips. I have done a lot of charity motorcycle runs in south India. In addition to that, I’ve also recruited young chefs from India while I was in Dubai. How can you not like India? Everybody is so friendly and welcoming here and I love the hospitality here, which I feel is absolutely genuine and heart-felt. There’s something very different about India.
 
 
 
 The great thing about Indian food is that it is being recognized everywhere and it is changing a lot of things across the world. UK has a lot of Indian restaurants and Indian food is very popular there. We also have Michelin Indian restaurants in UK now. People now know what Indian food is and are looking for more authentic Indian flavours and have been travelling to India to know more about it.
 In India, people are now going back to their roots, their traditional dishes and they are celebrating that which is fantastic. There are several chefs in Bengaluru and Delhi, who are celebrating local cuisine and are actually going back to history to find those dishes and bring it back. Apart from having great hotels and restaurants, it’s the authenticity that’s making a comeback, which is how it should be.
 
 
 
 Globally, a lot of people are again exploring and going back to their roots. There are several different cuisines that are coming out, including Mexican, South American, Peruvian and more. In India too, several non-Indian restaurants are coming up and that’s where some of the lesser known cuisines come into the picture. People want to try different cuisines and tastes and that’s where I feel it’s all about being authentic. If I go to a Mexican restaurant, I want proper Mexican food with Mexican spices. There’s a slight move away from fine dining and white table, though there is still a need for that. But there is a lot of street food, local flavours and more casual dining that is coming up.
 
 
 
 In the right hands, it is very good, but then it went crazy because a lot of chefs like Heston Blumenthal were into it. The problem is, in the wrong hands, it could be awful. People need to understand the mechanics of it. People like Heston have spent years and years developing one single thing on a plate and lot of people think, ‘Oh I can take that idea and reproduce it’. People are now realizing that it doesn’t work like that and you need to understand molecular gastronomy very well, including customers who feel that it isn’t working well. There are some people who are still doing that and are famous for that and they should continue to do that because when it is done well, its brilliant. But there’s a move away from molecular gastronomy and people are going back to authentic ways of cooking.
 
 
 
 It’s moved on a lot since my last trip. There were a lot of traditional dals and curries that I had last time I was here, but now it has moved on to more of the marinated food. There are a lot of marinated dishes, including grilled meat and marinated stuff and the combination of that is what I like. The easiest way to explain Indian food is that it’s just an explosion of flavours. Previously, the notion was that Indian food is just hot and spicy, but it’s not, there’s so much more than that. If done properly with the right ingredients, there’s a huge amount of difference in terms of   combinations that adds a depth to it, making it one of the best cuisines in the world.
 
 
 
 I love it. I’ve been in the business for 37 years and I’ve worked in some great places. I feel it’s my responsibility to help young chefs. I’ve always had an obsession with training and making sure that tomorrow is secure from a chef’s point of view. It’s about growing and protecting the hospitality industry in the future, because there is a huge demand for chefs. It’s like if you are a chef, you’re never going to be without a job anywhere in the world. We need to nurture more people in the industry and make sure when they enter the industry, we keep them there.
 
 
 
 Anything is possible if you really want it. If you work hard and dedicate yourself to it, commit to it and learn as much as possible, you can do anything. Don’t chase money, fame or anything else, just chase your dream and learn as much as you can.
 
 
