Mohali: The Zirakpur Municipal Council and the fire department of Derabassi are not in sync with each other, as the civic body has no data of the safety certificates the latter has awarded to the 40-odd marriage palaces in the township.

 The marriage palaces operate from both open and closed venues on the Zirakpur-Kalka national highway. Zirakpur civic body executive officer HS Grewal said: “We have no data relating to the fire NOCs (no-objection certificates) issued to the marriage palaces of Zirakpur. The fire department has never cared to share these figures with us.” The fire department also failed to produce any data relating to the fire NOCs to these wedding venues. Sources in the Derabassi fire department said that none of the marriage-palace owners had approached it for the certificate.
 
 A major tragedy was averted on Sunday night when just an hour before the arrival of the bridegroom, the ‘pandaal’ (marquee) at Aura Garden marriage palace in Zirakpur was destroyed in a major fire. “The fire broke out because of short-circuit,” Zirakpur station house officer (SHO) inspector Pawan Kumar said. The guests were yet to arrive, or there would have been major causalities.
 
 The fire tenders arrived 30 minutes after the call, even though the nearest fire stations at Derabassi and Panchkula are just 9 kilometres from Zirakpur. The fire department blamed the delay on heavy traffic.
 
 BOX
 
 Inquiry marked, report in 10 days
 
 Taking a serious note of Sunday’s fire incident at a marriage palace in Zirakpur, deputy commissioner Gurpreet Kaur Sapra has marked an inquiry to Derabassi subdivisional magistrate (SDM) Paramdeep Singh. He is required to check the fire-safety compliance of all marriage palaces in Zirakpur and submit a report within 10 days. All three SDMs will check the fire NOCs in respective jurisdictions. The marriage-palace owners not adhering to the norms will be warned to upgrade their premises or face legal action 
 
 BOX
 
 Pabhat to get fire station 
 
 During the Zirakpur Municipal Council house meeting on Monday, the agenda items for a new fire station as well as a stray-dog sterilisation centre were cleared unanimously. House president Kulwinder Singh Sohi led the proceedings in the presence of Derabassi legislator N K Sharma and the councillors. The 20-point agenda passed unanimously included building a fire station at Pabhat village. Sohi said: “There is an acute need for a fire station at Zirakpur, since even in case of a small fire, the town is dependent on help from Derabassi, Mohali, or Panchkula.” Legislator N K Sharma said the station was a long-pending demand of his constituents and now that the house had approved it and land had been set aside, “we will get the project approved from the local government department of Punjab and be quick with construction”.
 
 
