NEW DELHI: After an   the  , who was   to the union  , alleged irregularities in several projects, AAP’s chief spokesperson   attacked the BJP-led   on Wednesday for allegedly allowing corruption right under their nose. 

 Pointing out the “irregularities” cited by the official in land acquisition in Khyber Pass and Rani Jhansi flyover projects, he said that the BJP, LG and chief secretary should say where the public money has gone. “Land is a subject controlled by the BJP-appointed lieutenant-governor of Delhi, Anil Baijal,” he said.
 
 Meanwhile, the newly-appointed north DMC mayor, Adesh Gupta, has asked a three-member committee to inquire into the allegations and submit a report within a month. “The committee, under the chairmanship of additional commissioner SK Bhandari, will investigate the allegations...After submission of the report, we will take action as per the findings,” said Gupta. He said people were found guilty, they won’t be spared. “We have zero-tolerance against corruption.”
 
 “The BJP-led MCDs are notorious for being hubs of corruption. In the past few months, AAP has exposed the BJP leadership's role in looting the MCDs,” Pandey claimed. Referring to the letter, Pandey said: “The officer has flagged the brazenness with which large sums of money were given out to private individuals under the garb of acquiring land for the Rani Jhansi flyover project despite the fact that the land belonged to the Government.” 
 
 "AAP will not allow loot of public money and we will take this scam to the people of Delhi – this issue will be forcefully raised in forthcoming Delhi Assembly session as well,” said Pandey. 
 
 Senior leader of the party and former advisor to the deputy CM, Atishi Marlena, said: “The same MCDs which have no funds to pay salaries of teachers or safai karmacharis allowed 95 acres of their land to be transferred for the benefit of a private builder without any questions being asked? Who is the beneficiary of this transfer?”
 
 Reacting to the AAP onslaught, the leader of the opposition, Vijender Gupta, said the matter should be investigated before coming to any conclusion. “AAP is always trying to politicise issues and they have a habit of attacking BJP, LG and chief secretary. The matter should be investigated as the allegations come from a former additional commissioner and it should be handed over to CBI.”
 
 
