AMARAVATI: TDP will hold its annual three-day Mahanadu conclave in Vijayawada this year. The decision was taken at the party coordination committee meeting on Wednesday.

 
 TDP supremo N Chandrababu Naidu congratulated party members for making the April 30 meeting in Tirupati, where the party was able to expose BJP’s betrayal and YSR Congress’ conspiracy politics, a big success. He said the party will hold 12 such rallies across the state, with the next meeting to be held at   in the third week of May, ahead of the Mahanadu. The last meeting would be held in  , when TDP would bring all its ranks to the capital to expose how Prime Minister Narendra Modi had betrayed the state by not extending financial support to build the capital city.
 
 The CM said the party’s fight against BJP for betrayal had increased peoples’ satisfaction from 67 per cent in March to 73 per cent in April. He wanted party leaders to intensify agitations seeking justice for the state. Stating that people are happy with the performance of the government, he blamed leaders for low performance.
 
 “I am not responsible for your failures. I am doing my best as chief minister. It is for you to improve your work and win the confidence of the people,” he told party leaders. “I started my career as an activist and have come to this stage with hard work and dedication. A leader should have commitment and do hard work to taste success. A successful leader can win even if the party is weak.”
 
 He asked party leaders to explain to the people reasons for breaking the alliance with BJP, the injustice by the Centre and the conspiracy of YSR Congress. He asked party workers to completely expose BJP and   nexus in the next 12 meetings. He told them to prepare for the Mahanadu, where the party will determine it’s agenda for the future.
 
 TDP   unit president K Kalavenkata Rao, Telangana unit president  , ministers and party leaders were present at the meeting. Naidu addressed TDP’s district unit presidents over video conference.
 
