PANAJI: Sahas Shailesh Kamat, a student of Miramar’s Dempo Higher Secondary School of Science (PACE), has the highest combined score in Physics-Chemistry-Mathematics (PCM) at the Goa Common Entrance Test ( ) 2018, the results of which were declared on Monday. With a score of 204 out of 225, Kamat emerged the top candidate for an engineering seat in Goa.

 A resident of Vasco and son of doctors Shailesh and Namita Kamat, Sahashas also secured an all-India rank of 999 at the IIT JEE-Main, an alltime best from the state, so far.
 
 Chandor boy Ravindra Abhay Kudchadkar of Panaji’s Mushtifund Aryaan Higher Secondary School, has earned the second rank in the engineering aspirants’ list, with a PCM score of 195.
 
 Both students will decide on their institute of choice after the IIT JEE-Advance results. While Kamat wants to pursue research, Kudchadkar saidhe aimstobag aseatin either computer science or electrical engineering at one of the old IIT campuses.
 
 The GCET was held on May 8 and 9 this year as an entrance test to the engineering and pharmacy degree seats in Goa. The exam saw 4,169 students register for it, of which 3,994 and almost a similar number appeared for the Physics and Chemistry papers, respectively, while only about 3,000 students sat for the Mathematics test.
 
 “More than 35% of the students that appear for GCET bag an engineering seat in Goa, a reason to cheer for parents. At national-level tests like IIT JEE, only one per cent of those who appear are able to secure a seat,” said education secretary Daulat Hawaldar. There are 1,230 engineering degree seats on offer in the state.
 
 Kudchadkar scored the highest marks of 70 out of 75 in Chemistry and Kamat topped Physics, scoring 68 out of
 
 75. Arsh Korgaonkar, also a student of Mushtifund Aryaan Higher Secondary School, had the best score of 71 out of 75 in Mathematics.
 
 Mushtifund Aryaan Higher Secondary School director Vynkatesh Prabhudesai said, “Five of the top six scores announced at GCET for Physics and Chemistry are from our school.In Chemistry, the top four ranks are from our school or our affiliate, the Aryaan Study Circle.Allthese students intend to either join an IIT, BITS or NIT and are unlikely to go for a state engineering college.”
 
