PANCHKULA: What happens when you want to reach the police and dial 100 in Panchkula? You end up talking to Ambala  , who hang up on you. This is precisely what happened when   commissioner of police (CP) A S Chawla recently dialled 100 from near Sector 28.

 Chawla wanted to check if the flurry of complaints from residents about not getting through to Panchkula police after dialling the emergency number, especially from border areas, were true. As Chawla made the call, the phone got connected to   police control room. As he started inquiring whether he was talking to Panchkula police, the cop at the other end told him rudely that he was talking to Ambala police and disconnected the phone.
 
 An angry CP re-dialled the number and pulled up the   cop, telling him he should be helping the callers wherever they are calling from.
 
 “I was aghast. What if someone in Panchkula is in real emergency and dials 100, only to reach Ambala cops, who don’t even listen to you. It’s a grave problem and needs to be urgently addressed,” Chawla later told TOI.
 
 Besides giving instructions to Ambala control room officials to connect the complainant with the right control room if they get connected to them wrongly within two-minutes of the call, the CP also appointed assistant commissioner of police (ACP) Noopur Bishnoi to coordinate with Chandigarh and   police to sort out the problem which complainants facing at a major level.
 
 “Complainant only knows about the 100 number and for them it is going to connect with the control room concerned. If the complainant gets connected wrongly, the control room official should keep the person on hold and should connect the person with the control room concerned as soon as possible,” said the CP.
 
 According to local residents, even when they dial woman helpline number 1091, it gets connected to neighbouring states.
 
 Meena, 28, a private accountant, a resident of Sector 19, said, “Some people entered our house forcefully and I called up the 1091 woman helpline number in emergency but it got connected with   police, which advised her to call 100 if she needs some help.”
 
 The problem of cross-connection is not limited to Panchkula alone as Chandigarh and Mohali face the same issue.
 
 Chandigarh, Panchkula and Mohali police have their own separate police control rooms and people usually get connected to the other control rooms and their complaints remain non-attended.
 
 Experts informed that the police control rooms are meant to take emergency calls and if a victim is in emergency, the control room officials should not be reluctant to avoid the call. The control room officials should be trained well to tackle the problem. Tricity cops should work as one to get people’s complaint gets registered.
 
 
 
