NEW DELHI, MELBOURNE, Australia and SINGAPORE, April 4, 2018/PRNewswire/ -- First-of-its-kind partnership enables enterprise success with digital transformation   Unity Technologies, creator of the world's most widely used real-time development platform, and Appearition, provider of augmented reality solutions for enterprises, today announced a partnership to launch the first-ever Unity Center of Excellence (CoE) for enterprises in Australia. Corporations worldwide looking to introduce innovative solutions now have an augmented reality-focused CoE as a resource to address corporate pain points.   "Since Unity's inception, our mission has been to democratize development, solve hard problems and enable success. We're excited to partner with Appearition because the company shares our passion through its dedication to the development of augmented reality solutions," said Hubert Larenaudie, President APAC, Unity Technologies. "We hope corporations that are tackling issues with digital transformation benefit from the solutions and support from partners like Appearition who are using Unity's technology to enable the success of enterprises."   The Unity CoE highlights the enterprise demand and growth of augmented reality solutions and the move towards digital transformation. The partnership is a significant step forward for both companies enabling corporate digital transformation and fostering an ecosystem to encourage knowledge sharing of best practices.   "Appearition's mission is to enable the success of others, a mission that we gladly share with Unity. We pride ourselves on building innovative products to help enterprises succeed," said Vivek Aiyer, Founder and CEO of Appearition. "Appearition is delighted to partner with Unity to launch the first-ever Center of Excellence in Australia. With our global presence, we are excited to continue to deliver end-to-end-deployment through the entire business technology lifecycle." About Unity Technologies   Unity is the creator of the world's most widely-used real-time 3D development platform, giving developers around the world the tools to create rich, interactive 2D, 3D, VR and AR experiences. The company's 500+ person engineering team keeps Unity at the bleeding-edge of technology by working alongside partners such as Google, Facebook, Oculus and Microsoft to ensure optimized support for the latest releases and platforms. Games and experiences made with Unity have reached ~3 billion devices worldwide and were installed more than 24 billion times in the last 12 months. Unity's renowned flexibility gives developers the power to target and optimize their creations for Unity employs an "write once, publish everywhere" approach, enabling developers to target 25+ platforms including Xbox One, PlayStation 4, Gameroom (Facebook), SteamVR (PC & Mac), Oculus, PSVR, Gear VR, HoloLens, ARKit (Apple), ARCore (Google) and more. Unity also offers solutions and services for connecting with audiences including Unity Ads, Unity Analytics, Unity Asset Store, Unity Cloud Build, Unity Collaborate, Unity Connect and Unity Certification. For more information, visit www.unity3d.com and to see the latest games and experiences created in Unity, go to https://unity.com/madewith. About Appearition   Appearition was established with the vision to enable its customers' success by developing and deploying Virtual Reality (VR) and Augmented Reality (AR) software solutions across verticals. Over the years, Appearition has developed and constantly improved what it calls 'Green Spot Process' for digital transformation projects, to deliver and obtain user acceptance of the proposed solutions. On a more technical front, a proprietary, cloud based platform, Enterprise Management System (EMS), has specifically been designed for the B2B and B2B2C segments. The EMS features a state-of-the-art SDK as well as an API to connect to multiple data sources and make developers' lives easier. It ultimately delivers dynamic and personalized experiences in AR and/or VR environments in real-time. Appearition's team of global experts in their respective fields, share the ambition to be the leading supplier of immersive technologies and services to the global market. A dedicated, in-house R/D team operates out of Melbourne and entertains various international research partnerships with leading universities. Appearition is headquartered in Melbourne, Australia with offices in the US, as well as in India. Opening of additional global offices to be announced later this year. It is part of the HC Group, established in 2005. For more information, visit www.appearition.com. Media Contact Shilpa Narani Shilpa.narani@bm.com +91-9873301657 GBM Source: Unity Technologies PRNewswire  OS OS