BENGALURU: With police insisting only on ISI-marked helmets, politicians, ever on the lookout to woo voters with polls looming, have smelt a fine opportunity. Supporters of housing minister M Krishnappa and his MLA-son,  , are distributing helmets free of charge at an event in   on January 26.

 The  , a voluntary organization in Vijayanagar, revealed that it would distribute the helmets at an event organized on January 26 to celebrate Republic Day and Netaji   Bose’s birth anniversary. The Sangha plans to distribute at least 1,000 helmets to the needy.
 
 “The event is being organized with the blessings of our leaders Krishnappa and Priya Krishna,” said Babu HMR, president of Netaji Seva Sangha. “We will distribute coupons from January 23 and helmets will be distributed to those with coupons at the function on January 26.”
 
 The coupons will be distributed at the sangha office in   on a firstcome first served basis. “Those wanting to make use of this opportunity should produce vehicle registration documents, driving licence and Aadhaar card. Income proof will not be sought,” sangha members said.
 
 Each helmet costs more than Rs 350 and organisers claimed that Krishnappa and Priya Krishna chipped in with funds. Krishnappa represents Vijayanagar constituency in the state assembly, while his son was elected from the adjacent constituency of Govindaraj Nagar. The two-term MLAs are considered formidable candidates in the forthcoming assembly elections, but the helmet freebie indicates that they want to do everything possible to keep their constituents in good humour.
 
 Krishnappa, however, denied that the helmet distribution was a poll gimmick. “They are our supporters and there’s no doubt about that,” he said. “The organization has voluntarily planned the event. We will attend only because it is being organized in our constituencies.”
 
 However, K Harish, the secretary of the sangha, had a very different take. “We are fortunate to have leaders like Krishnappa and Priya Krishna, who have social concerns,” Harish said. “The beneficiaries will be poor people from the two constituencies. We planned this thinking many of them have helmets which are going to be invalid and they cannot afford to buy new ones.”
 
 He said his organization would plan similar events in future and volunteers have been asked to moot innovative ideas. The move is just another incidence of politicians doling out freebies in the run up to assembly elections. Politicans across party lines have distributed free sarees and shirt fabric and have sponsored trips to pilgrim centres like Om Shakthi, Dharmasthala, Tirupathi, Murug Mulla dargah in Kolar district, Ajmer in Rajasthan and Velankkanni.
 
