JAIPUR: Mild to moderate showers accompanied with hailstorm occurred at many places in the western Rajasthan on Saturday. It has again worried the farmers in the state as they have been witnessing abrupt spell of rainfall in February and March for last two years that had affected crops. However, mercury took an upward swing across the state. 

 Attributing the climatic change to the active westerly disturbances Jaipur met office said that similar conditions will prevail in the state in the next coming days. 
 
 Jaipurites woke up to a warmer morning as a minimum temperature of 18.2 degrees Celsius, almost 5 degrees above the normal notch. It was followed by a sultry afternoon as a maximum temperature of 33.5 degrees Celsius; almost 5 degrees above the normal notch was recorded. In the evening cloudy conditions prevailed in the city which did not covert into rainfall. A few places in the outskirts of Jaipur also witnessed dust storm and mild showers in the evening.
 
 In the past two years, the farmers in the southern Rajasthan, including Kota, Baran and Jhalawar witnessed the worst phase due to the rainfall and hailstorm in February and March. Thus, the sudden rainfall at many places has again worried the farmers. However,  , Delhi said that unlike previous years the northern India including Rajasthan will not get moderate to heavy rainfall in the month of February and march. “Conditions are favourable for the onset of summers in the state. Majority of the places have already got its minimum temperatures above 15.0 degrees Celsius which is clearly indicating that winters have vanished,” said a senior officer of IMD, Delhi. 
 
 Meanwhile, Bhilwara remained coldest in the state where a minimum temperature of 12.5 degrees Celsius was recorded. 
 
 It was followed by Sriganganagar where a minimum temperature of 14.4 degrees Celsius was recorded, Udaipur 14.8, Jaisalmer and Bikaner 16 each, Pilani 17.3, Jodhpur and Churu 18 each, Kota 20.2, Ajmer 20.5 and a minimum temperature of 21.1 degrees Celsius was recorded in Barmer. 
 
