NAVI MUMBAI: The discharge of toxic effluents from the Taloja common effluent treatment plant (CETP) into the Vashi creek at Kharghar-end has worsened since March 1 this year. The biochemical (BOD) and chemical oxygen demand (COD) levels have increased further, implying less oxygen for flora and fauna in the water body even as   is trying to finalise tender for a partner to operate and maintain the plant for close to a year.

 The   website on Saturday showed Taloja CETP BOD at 1250 mg/l and COD 2832 mg/l. As per the MPCB report uploaded on its website on March 1, 2,128 mg/l COD was released against the norm of 250mg/l into the Vashi creek and the biological oxygen demand (BOD) at 1,100 mg/l was discharged against the 30 mg/l norm. This is one of the highest discharge levels among all the CETPs.
 
 Taloja CETP continued to top the chart of 25 most polluting CETPs under MPCB watch, but the other two—Roha and Tarapur CETPs did not deteriorate further. MPCB had ordered MIDC to take over Taloja CETP in March, 2017. Taloja is among the seven of the 13 CETPs in   that MPCB has ordered for takeover by MIDC.
 
 MIDC is evaluating the tech bid of three parties that have bid and will post pre-qualification and then evaluate the finance bid. Earlier, two attempts have failed to get more bidders in the fray. “We are evaluating the technical bid of three companies. The finance bid of the terms of cost quoted by the selected bidders for operating and maintaining the plant will be done among the ones that qualify the qualification to operate it. In case only one qualified for the tech bid and quoted prices for operation and maintaining the plant at a rate higher than that fixed then it will be rejected. But this time we are hopeful of competitive bids.” The Taloja CETP bid has two aspects— the increase in capacity for treatment from 22.5 MLD to 27.5 MLD and the operation and maintenance. The capital investment of CETP is shared in a ratio of 50:25:25 by the central government, MPCB and MIDC industries. he cost of O&M will be done by MIDC as it will pay from the treatment charges it collects from the industries.
 
