LUCKNOW: It was peer pressure which forced him to join a master’s course. Close to home and convenient to him,   got himself enrolled in Shakuntala Misra National Rehabilitation University’s MSc (applied statistics) in 2015. Two years since, he stands as the university topper. A recipient of the chancellor’s gold medal—awarded to the best student across faculties—Vipin has scored 87.74%, the highest among all students. The university announced its medal list on Saturday.

 An average student all through, Vipin said that the turning point in his life came after seeing his differently abled batchmates.
 
 “There were visually impaired, hearing-impaired and physically handicapped students around me, struggling each day. They could use laptops and typewriters well. I thought that if they, who have 100 reasons to not attend college, are working so hard, why can’t I? They inspired me and I was regular to classes,” Vipin said.
 
 Now he is pursuing research in the area of upliftment of the differently abled.
 
 
 Age and disability are no barriers to education. Forty-two-year-old Anju Kumari is not only dedicated to pursuing her dream to study after a gap of 19 years, but has also scored the highest among differently abled students enrolled in PG courses.
 
 An accident at the age of 10 damaged her right hand but not her determination. For one year, she practised writing with her left hand. She completed school and subsequently BA from   in 1998 without a scribe. After that, she got married and raised two kids. In 2015, she joined MA (Hindi) for which she is getting a medal with a score of 79.6%. Now, she has joined MA in Bhojpuri at SMNRU.
 
 
 She lost 80% of her vision but used the remaining 20% to excel. daughter of a farmer in Basti, Jyoti Mishra emerged as the winner among all differently abled students enrolled in UG courses at SMNRU. That apart, she has scored the third highest marks overall in BA.
 
 “I used my mobile phone camera to magnify the words and read them. With the help of sound recording, I learnt my lessons and reproduced them to my writer in exams,” said Jyoti, who scored 80% in class   examinations in Basti. Purusing BEd now from SMNRU, Jyoti wants to become a teacher.
 
 “While sending me to Lucknow, my father told me to study hard. The medals are for him,” she said.
 
