JOHANNESBURG: For the first time since the six-match 50-over series began early this month in South Africa, India’s batting underwent a reality check at the Wanderers on Saturday, especially with   not at the crease for 217 of the 300 balls India faced here.

 
 From 178/2 in 31.1 overs — when a prolific second-wicket stand between Kohli and an impressive   came to an end — to the eventual 289/7 at the end of 50 overs, India’s batting went from looking impenetrable to incomprehensible, an effort that should leave the team management with a few questions to answer.
 
 Barring opener Dhawan’s less than run-a-ball 109, and Kohli’s sparkling 75 off 83, the remaining 111 runs off 16.4 overs was a scratchy effort.
 
 Right at the top,   departed early yet again – five runs from 13 balls – caught and bowled off good pace from Kagiso Rabada. With 40 runs from four matches at an average of just 10, Rohit is only putting more pressure on himself with each passing game.
 
 At No. 4 walked in  , 19.5 overs left ahead of him, and India 22 runs away from double hundred. The occasion was perfect for him to play the anchor as Dhawan kept firing at the other end. Under obligation perhaps to keep the run-rate going at the same level as Kohli and Dhawan had, Rahane went for a risk-shot – very unlike his style of play – and holed out to deep square leg.
 
 Playing only his fourth One-dayer,   — coming in place of   — looked patchy throughout but so did the highly experienced  , who scored 42 not out off 43 balls.
 
 The veteran wicketkeeper-batsman has clearly not been in his elements and his Saturday innings was yet another stark reminder of how badly his near-perfect hand-eye coordination has been betraying him lately.
 
 In conditions crippled by bad light, setting South Africa a target of 290 here at the Wanderers wasn’t a bad effort. But the effort, for most part of it, was a result of yet another Dhawan-Kohli partnership.
 
 The rest of India’s line-up faces many questions. In the third ODI in Cape Town too, it was Kohli’s massive 159-ball 160 along with Dhawan’s 63-ball 76 that set the pace for India as the rest of the batting crumbled.
 
 On Saturday, it began to appear yet again that barring Kohli’s confidence – one that makes him look like he’s batting on a different wicket altogether – most of the others have yet to begin clicking for this Indian team if 2019 happens to be their target over the next 15 months.
 
 
