AHMEDABAD: After   showing a group of policemen in plain clothes thrashing up two brothers who were manning an eatery on   early on January 31, four constables have been suspended by the   on Friday. Sarkhej police, however, said that the four are yet to be arrested in the case.

 Rajendra Asari, SP, Ahmedabad Rural, told TOI that the decision was taken on the basis of CCTV footage of the incident and the details of the   with Sarkhej police. “Such behaviour is unacceptable from a policeman, who citizens entrust with their security. The four constables have been suspended with immediate effect as their whereabouts on that morning are being probed,” he said.
 
  
  According to a complaint by Gaurav Chaudhary, 19, who works at Hotel Dwarkadheesh on SP Ring Road near Ambli, he and his brother Ankit were at the eatery at 3.45am on Wednesday. Mukeshdan Gadhvi, Pradyumnasinh, Sadik and Harpalsinh, all working at Bopal police station, approached the eatery and asked for parathas. They were regulars at the eatery as the owner knew them.
 
 “Chaudhary told them that the eatery was closed but he could provide tea. The group then demanded Rs 10,000 for them to go and eat elsewhere. When Chaudhary refused to pay, they abused him verbally. On him telling them not to, they dragged out and started beating him up. When his brother tried to intervene, he and his brother were beaten up and flogged with the belts of two of the cops. The entire incident was captured on CCTV camera,” said an investigator.
 
 The cops then made the brothers do sit-ups outside the eatery and threatened them, telling them to “leave the area or be ready for the consequences”. Chaudhary had to be hospitalized because of the injuries.
 
 P R Ramani, inspector of Sarkhej police station, was not available for comment.
 
 
 
 
 With the suspension of these four constables, the count cops suspended in the last seven days goes up to eight. Five are from Ahmedabad rural police and three from city police.
 
 Constables Lalsinh Harisinh, Jogendrasinh Pravinsinh and Dharmendrasinh Bhavubha, all working at Satellite police station, were suspended for letting Rajendrasinh Vaghela, one of the accused involved in the arson on January 23, leave the police lock-up. Soon after, Sonaji Popatji, a constable with Sanand police station, was suspended when it was found that he was in touch with Vaghela and helped him evade arrest.
 
 
