LUCKNOW/KANPUR: No Uttar Pradesh city—either Lucknow or Kanpur feature in the list of Indian Premier League matches during the event which gets off with the match between Mumbai Indians and Chennai Super Kings at Wankhede stadium, Mumbai, on April 7. The list was released on Monday evening.

 This further dents the chances of Green Park stadium hosting any matches this season. Though, according to reliable sources, Delhi Daredevils are interested in making the ultra-modern Ekana stadium in Lucknow their second home.
 
 But, the final decision to host the matches at Ekana stadium will be taken by an IMG technical team, which will be here in the first week of February. This was confirmed by  , MD of  , the owners of the stadium.
 
 He further said: “We have everything in order, and hope to get the nod from the IMG team.”
 
 As IPL chairman   said on Friday, that no side has shown interest to play matches at the iconic Green Park stadium in Kanpur, but the city cricket aficianados are still hopeful of some action.
 
 “Green Park has a rich history of organizing international matches and the Delhi side may rethink of making Green Park their second home after   stadium (if Ekana is not given the clearance),” said an UPCA official under condition of anonymity.
 
 In 2016 Neeta Ambani, owner of Mumbai Indians had visited Green Park during the IPL match and was impressed by the fans there. She had later expressed her desire to conduct one her team matches in Kanpur. Similarly, Preity Zinta, owner of  , had desired to host a match in Kanpur. He said: “Green Park is ready and we are sure that we will get at least a match.”
 
 A life member of UPCA and the chairman of its pitches and grounds committee Gulam Mohiuddin opined Rajiv Shukla has the right to shift any match here as IPL commissioner in case any venue finds it difficult to host the game.
 
 
 
 
 “Yes, logistically Kanpur is losing out as we lack in not having an airport and proper hotels, but I am still optimistic,” he added. “If IPL matches could be shifted from India to South Africa within a month, due to general elections here, we still have time and I am keeping my fingers crossed.” Gujarat Lions had hosted two matches each at Green Park in season 2016 and 2017. The Lions and Rising Pune Supergiants had come up as replacement teams for Chennai Super Kings and Rajasthan Royals, who were banned for two years. Now with Chennai and Rajasthan back in the eight-team competition, Lions and Pune are out of the fray.
 
