BALLARI: Born into a family with limited means,   has surmounted many odds. The daughter of a brick factory labourer and an agricultural worker, she has made not only her parents but the entire state proud with her stellar performance in the II PU exams. The girl from Rampura village near Kottur in Ballari district has secured 595/600 (99.1%), topping Karnataka in the arts stream.

 She studied at Indu Independent PU College in Kottur, which is 6km from her house. Even the second and third arts toppers — Ramesh SV (593) and Goravara Kavyanjali (588) — are from the same institution. Swathi secured a perfect 100 in history and education. “I made it a point to study every day and am more than satisfied with the result. I have secured more than what I got in the   (576/600). I expected to be among the top ten but bagging the number one spot is exhilarating,” she said.
 
 
 “Unscheduled power cuts were a major problem in the village, and most of the time, I studied in the light of a kerosene lamp or mobile battery,” she told TOI. With her parents collectively earning Rs 300 a day, Swathi has never had it easy. “She wanted to study in an English-medium institution and we could not afford the fees, so the college paid half of it,” said Swathi’s mother Rathnamma S, who’s an agricultural labourer.
 
 The college sent a car to ferry the family on Monday. “We were surprised to see the car. That’s when we realised Swathi has topped the state,” said an ecstatic Rathnamma. She never went to school but her aim was to ensure her children are educated. “Despite facing several challenges, we decided to give priority to our daughter’s education and she has made us proud,” she added.
 
 The second topper S V Ramesh, a resident of Agalure village, Siruguppa taluk, was elated. “My mother’s eyes teared up as I told her,” said Ramesh. His mother S Varalakshmi is an anganwadi worker. Ramesh’s village is 160km from the college and initially, he was homesick as he had to stay away from home. “I was lonely but got used to it after a while,” said Ramesh, who wants to be an IAS officer.
 
 Goravara Kavyanjali, the third arts topper, is the daughter of a tailor. She has two sisters. “We are supporting all three girls in getting higher education. I want Kavyanjali to become a KAS officer,” said her father G Paramesh.
 
 ‘Our students have topped arts stream for 4 years’
 
 H N Veerabhadrappa, principal of Indu college, said the collective efforts of students, parents and lecturers have yielded results. “Churning out toppers for the fourth consecutive year isn’t easy,” he said. Even in 2015, 2016 and 2017, the state arts toppers were from the college.
 
 
