MUMBAI: Municipal commissioner Ajoy Mehta has recommended that   liability be pinned on the owners of   Compound at Lower Parel for the December 29 fire that killed 14 people, saying they were equally responsible for negligence.

 In a report submitted to chief minister Devendra Fadnavis on Thursday, the   chief also recommended a full-fledged departmental inquiry against 10 more civic officials, including two ward officers (assistant municipal commissioner). 
 
 For the first time, the BMC has suggested fixing criminal responsibility on the architect and the interior decorator who carried out illegal works at the two restobars,   and Mojo’s Bistro.
 
 According to the report, there could be violations of development control rules as well floor space index (FSI) in Kamala Mills as the owners had allegedly built commercial area way beyond what was permitted. Mehta said these violations should be verified within three months. The CM had ordered the civic chief to carry out an inquiry soon after the December 29 tragedy.
 
 The report says the mill compound owners, Ramesh Gowani and Ravi Bhandari, allotted the whole premises to Royal Traders, in which Gowani is a partner. Royal Traders leased out spaces to others, including Mojo’s and 1Above. The report pointed out that as Gowani had his office on the third floor of the building in which the fire broke out, he cannot escape his responsibility by saying he was not aware of the violations by the two restobars. 
 
 The BMC chief’s report, submitted 20 days after the two restobars were gutted, says the “tragedy took place at the intersection of greed fuelled by impunity and utter contempt for rules and failure of various agencies to ensure compliance”.
 
 A textile businessman who was present at 1Above gave his account of the tragedy to the commissioner on the condition that he not be identified. He provided the 1Above bill to support his claim. He said he had cleared the bill and was chatting with friends when the fire started from Mojo’s and spread to 1Above. According to him, “1-Above staffers were not trained to handle the crisis as he had to force the bouncers and staff to open the exit leading to stairs which can be the easiest escape route.” It saved the witnesses and many others.
 
 Pointing the finger at more civic officials besides the five already suspended, the BMC chief has proposed full-fledged departmental inquiry against 10 more civic staffers, including officials of the building proposal department, G south ward and fire brigade. A senior civic official said, “The two assistant commissioners facing inquiry would be Prashant Sakpale who was transferred from the ward after the tragedy and Bhagayshree Kapse, during whose tenure in the ward the two restobars had come up.” 
 
 In his statement to the BMC chief, a suspended sub-engineer, Dinesh Mahale, has said that on August 2, 2017, they had stopped demolition action against the two restobars mid-way on telephonic order of Sakpale.
 
 In his report, the BMC chief has also proposed a slew of measures to revamp the licensing system for existing eating houses and monsoon-shed permission procedure. He has recommended provision of heavy penalties for those running business without license and violating license norms. A month after an eatery is issued licence, the assistant engineer (building and factory) and the fire compliance officer should visit the premises and check for structural and fire safety, the report says.
 
 It has proposed introduction of a clause that licence will be cancelled automatically if three inspection reports for violations are issued or a seizure action is taken twice a year.
 
 According to the report, in an attempt to use more area for business operations of restaurants, open spaces and passages leading to escape routes and staircases are compromised. In case of 1Above and Mojo’s, where the fire erupted, the access routes were found blocked, making it difficult for firemen also to reach on time. Therefore, there should a mechanism to ensure that the ground reality is in keeping with the approvals issued.
 
 Besides— as reported by TOI a few days ago—the report also says compliance appears to be the weakest link, so a separate wing for compliance needs to be created in Mumbai Fire Brigade. The force on Thursday nominated 34 of its officials to carry out inspections for compliances in coordination with the local civic staff.
 
 
