KOLKATA: Director of health services ( ) Ajoy Kumar Chakraborty, the seniormost health department officer in Bengal had to personally appear at a   division bench on Wednesday to argue against a singlebench order and explain his government’s stand on an administrative issue, thanks to the unprecedented crisis at the high court, where   have been on   since February 19.

 On March 8, the high court had released Vali Faraz, a medical postgraduate, from an indemnity bond he had signed to work for two years in a state facility, failing which he had to pay Rs 20 lakh. Faraz, who argued his case himself, had said he wanted to pursue higher studies but was being held back because his original degree certificates were with the state, which it was refusing to release. In the meantime, he was shortlisted for counselling for all-India entrance tests, which were to begin on March 12. He told the HC that without the certificates, he could not enrol for any course.
 
 
 
 
 While Faraz argued his case in detail, the state wasn’t represented. When quizzed why he had chosen to inform the state that he wanted a release from the bond after four months of getting his appointment letter, Faraz said his mother was diagnosed with cancer and his father had to undergo a cardiac surgery during this period, which is why he couldn’t join even for a single day. The HC, subsequently, allowed the student to get back his original certificates from the state provided he repaid the Rs 20-lakh bond. The HC order, therefore, recorded the fact that the copy of the affidavit and a notice was served on the state. It also dismissed the writ petition.
 
 The state, fearing this would set a precedent, chose to appeal this order in the division bench. State advocategeneral  , himself a member of the  , wasn’t at hand to argue the matter. On Wednesday, director of health services Ajoy Kumar Chakraborty and Amitabha Das, the health department’s senior law officer, appeared before the bench of Justice Sanjib Banerjee and Justice Rajarshi Bharadwaj. Chakraborty told the court that 4,000 posts remain vacant, and if candidates go through the subsidised education provided by the state and throw some money on the face of the state after completing the initial education, rural health services would suffer.
 
 Chakraborty refused to speak about it to 
 . His argument was not lost on the HC bench. It held that the order could not be regarded as “recognising an absolute right of a candidate to exercise his choice whenever he wants to obtain discharge of his obligation under the bond that he executes in favour of the state”.
 
 
