NEW DELHI: Retired civil service officers have written an open letter to the government and Prime Minister  , asking for “firm action against perpetrators of hate crimes” against minorities in the country.

 The letter, signed by 67 retired officers, highlighted the murders and acts of violence against people belonging to minority communities in April 2017, starting with the lynching of Pehlu Khan allegedly by cow vigilantes in Alwar, Rajasthan.
 
 The retired civil servants registered their “deep concern at the continuing incidents of mindless violence in the country, especially those targeting the minorities, and the lackadaisical response of the law enforcement machinery to these attacks”.
 
 The letter listed similar acts of violence month-wise and how in every case, the accused had either not been arrested or were let off easily. It said the killing of  , a migrant worker from   in Rajsamand, Rajasthan, on the 25th anniversary of the demolition of the Babri masjid had “deeply shaken each of us”.
 
 “The recording of the brutal act on video and the circulation of the justification for the killing over the internet cuts at the roots of an inclusive and pluralistic society drawing its inspiration from the teachings of Buddha, Mahavir, Ashoka, Akbar, the Sikh Gurus, Hindu sages and Gandhi,” it said.
 
 The officers added, “The violent incidents in Udaipur in support of the alleged killer are a pointer to how deep the sectarian poison has spread among the population of this country.”
 
 The incidents listed in the letter included the death of  , who “opposed the naming and shaming process” to make Pratapgarh free of open defecation, the attack on 16-year-old Junaid Khan on a train from Delhi, the deaths of two teenagers after they were attacked while transporting cattle in West Bengal, a similar attack in November on Umair Khan and his friends while they were transporting cows in Alwar, and finally the murder of Mohammed Afrazul in Rajsamand.
 
 It also pointed out how home-owners discriminated against Muslim tenants, referring to a recent case in Meerut where residents of a locality stopped a Muslim buyer from taking possession of his house.
 
 The letter highlighted how Christians were targeted in UP and Rajasthan in the weeks leading up to Christmas.“We seek now and without delay a clear response from the PM and his government on these issues,” it said.
 
 
