PACHPADRA (BARMER): The ruling BJP and chief minister Vasundhara Raje scored over a point by the massive show of strength in the first major political event of the election year.

 Despite the fact that Tuesday’s event turned into a   show, which was yet another testimony to his immense popularity, the state BJP gained much from it. PM patting Raje’s back over refinery and praising her is being read by the state leadership as party backing her ahead of the 2018 assembly elections. It has boosted the confidence of the state leadership.
 
 Senior party leaders believe that Modi’s statements and praise for Raje should wash away any doubts over her leadership skills.
 
 “Driving the point about her bargaining hard for the refinery, he said that it is rare that a chief minister gets so stubborn for the welfare of the state. He also said that   and drought are twins which always show up together. Water comes to the state when Raje comes to power. Isn’t the message clear?” said a senior cabinet minister who attended the event.
 
 Modi in his speech also reached out to the locals and the aggrieved sections of the society, much to the benefit of the state BJP. He talked about Bhairon Shingh Shekhawat as the first person to vision a refinery in this area and prayed for an early recovery for senior party leader  , which won him huge applause from the crowds.
 
 Remembering the sons of the soil, he talked about Major Dalpat Singh Shekhawat for his contribution in World War I to free Haifa in Israel along with Gulabchand Salecha, a freedom fighter from Pachpadra. With large number of locals from the desert districts employed with the army, his elaborate mention of one rank one pension too served its purpose.
 
 “I have not seen a war in which the heroes from Rajasthan have not contributed,” he said to the cheering crowd.
 
 The references to the local Rajput leaders and heroes is believed to his way of reaching out at the Rajput community in the state, which has announced to boycott BJP in the forthcoming bypolls over Sanjay Leela Bhansali’s ‘Padmaavat’ and Anandpal encounter case.
 
 The state BJP, knowing well how crucial the event was, had stretched itself to the fullest to make it a grand success. Reports suggest that the elected representatives from Barmer, Jaisalmer and Jodhpur had clearly been told that their political career and chances to get an election ticket in the next polls depends on the number of people they can bring to the venue.
 
 With much at stake and eager to showcase its strength for the PM, much was at stake for the state party unity, which makes it less surprising that it resorted to such tactics. Senior leaders including Raje and state president   were personally overseeing all arrangements, including crowd management. Despite all the efforts put in, the large crowd presence is attributed to PM’s popularity. The echoes of Modi chants in the large pandal proved that. ``Modi’s popularity is BJP’s win,’’ justified a senior leader and on that note, state BJP steps confidently into the election year.
 
