Ever since she made her debut with Kadhal Kan Kattudhe,   Ravi has been a busy bee. The 23-year-old actress from Coimbatore, who made her debut in 2017, has already acted in three films and is currently working in two. We caught up with the actress for a brief chat. 
“All the movies that I have done and I have signed are because of Kadhal Kan Kattudhe. It has just been a year since my debut and I have done two important roles and I have signed two more films, which is a big achievement for me,” says the actress, who is working in Naadodigal 2 and  .”
 
 Athulya adds that the industry has become extremely competitive these days. “Five years ago, there were only a bunch of women artistes who were doing very well. But, now that is not the case. There are so many talented people and opportunities for everyone. The industry has evolved and the audience is not going to theatres looking at the cast of the film. Only if the script is good, people watch a film.”
 
 Though Athulya began her acting career with a homely role in  , she immediately went on to portray a bold, ultramodern role in Yemaali. The actor faced a barrage of criticism when her fans saw her in the new avatar. “I was selected for   without even taking part in any auditions. When I entered cinema, I told people I am not going to do glamorous roles, but modern characters. When I came to know of the character I was going to play in Yemaali, I was reluctant to do it, because I had no hope that I will be able to pull off that role. I have never been that modern in real life either. I spoke to my family and my friend Shivaraj, director of Kadhal Kan Kattudhe. They encouraged me to take up the role. I didn’t expect that my fans would be so captivated by my homely avatar.”
 She adds, “I am comfortable with homely characters. I am getting versatile roles now. I play a girl from the slum in Suttu Pidikka Utharavu and a village belle in Naadodigal 2.”
 Talking about Naadodigal 2, Athulya says, “The film is in its later stages of completion. We were planning to complete the whole film in one schedule — 60 to 70 days. But because of the Kollywood shutdown, we had to stop the shoot.” Sharing the experience of working with   and Sasikumar, she says, “When I was working with   sir in Yemaali, he appreciated my performance and told me that we would work together soon. But, I didn’t expect him to cast me in Naadodigal 2. I saw the chemistry between   sir and Kani sir live while working in the film. It is so natural. They know exactly what is happening and what they expect from each other. It has been wonderful working with both of them.”
 And, on working with Suseenthiran and   in Suttu Pidikka Utharavu, Athulya says, “I never expected Suseenthiran sir to be so funny. He made the entire set laugh during the shoot. I am yet to act with Mysskin sir. We will be shooting together in the upcoming schedule. I am looking forward to it.”
 
 
 
 
