PATIALA: In what could be a pioneering research in the field of quick wound healing for diabetics, the biomedical engineering wing of the   (IIT), Ropar, has developed a potential targeted therapeutic procedure which can go a long way in benefiting diabetics undergoing surgical procedures or having suffered injuries.

 Recognising the work of  , assistant professor, biomedical engineering department of  , as an important innovative research which is highly significant to the human race, the   of Indian Origin (AAPI) awarded her at its 11th annual Global Healthcare Summit (GHS) held at Kolkata, recently.
 
 The summit was organized by the association in collaboration with the Overseas Indian Affairs division of the Union ministry for external affairs and the Union ministry of health and family welfare.
 
 Durba, who is working on the project in collaboration with the experts from the Ohio State University of the US, said the new-age technology which has shown promising results when tested on small animals, including rats, can prove beneficial for lakhs of diabetes patients and also help medical professionals offer better treatment to the patients. She said the technology uses the biological material (ribonucleic acid and locked nucleic acid bases) to directly help healing of the skin without any side effects.
 
 Elaborating on the research,   said high blood glucose level in diabetic patients was detrimental to the healing of wounds. However, following injury, a transient down regulation of miR200b, which is a specific non-coding RNA (ribonucleic acid which is a polymeric molecule essential in various biological roles in coding, decoding, regulation, and expression of genes) can be used as a potential therapeutic target for diabetic wound healing that can help in hastening the restorative process.
 
 She said the high expression of miR200b in diabetic wound endothelial cells cause for its dysfunction, leading to healing impairment. The research carried out at the IIT shows that diabetic wound can be healed by delivering anti-miR200b locked nucleic acid bases (LNA) at the wound edge. This is the first evidence showing miR200b as a potential therapeutic target for diabetic wound healing, Durba said.
 
 Durba said undergoing surgeries can poses problems for ‘sugar’ patients as well as for the medical professionals conducting these procedures. But once her research is approved following clinical trials, it would bring down the medical complications arising from delayed healing of wounds in the diabetic patients.
 
 Recent statistics mention that more than 500 million people across the world suffer from diabetes. Approximately 25% of these diabetic patients develop foot ulcers during their lifetime. Thus, huge diabetic population can benefit from faster wound healing using targeted delivery of anti-miR200b at the wound edge by   technology.
 
 
