Illegal constructions have long haunted every government in power. I use the term ‘haunted’ because those ruling are still unaware as to how to project their stance on such structures. Recently, there was a news article about how the Mumbai Municipal Corporation will use satellite surveillance on such properties. In another article, a planning authority announced it will use drones to keep an eye on such structures. However, the problem is two-fold. First, why are such constructions allowed and secondly, why announce plans of keeping an eye on this issue? The government is busy defending illegal constructions, so why waste money in ‘keeping an eye’? Look at all the constructions in and around Pune. Who is taking steps to stop the illegal structures? Recently, I got to read an article about a petition filed by an NGO challenging the state’s decision to regularize illegal constructions till 2015. In its first hearing, a court had questioned, what yardstick was applied to the 2015 deadline? This very government is now busy defending their love for illegal constructions. We have thousands of educated unemployed educated youngsters. Why can’t we use this force to strengthen the anti-illegal structures drive by forming a special squad at every city? The problem is not of adequate infrastructure or manpower. The anti-illegal construction squad is weak amd people can construct banned buildings easily. This has two results. First, most builders are in some way related to some political party, so the “karyakartas” are happy. Secondly, the homes or units in such buildings are cheaper than legal buildings, so buyers are happy. Whenever there is an order from a court to demolish illegal buildings, the government through the civic bodies or collectors starts citing reasons like inadequate staff or infrastructure to take action. The court then issues a notification to regularize the illegal buildings, as that’s easier option. Since 1995, every government has kept extending the deadline of regularizing illegal buildings. This is done to keep securing a vote bank. Frankly, such prohibited buildings are the outcome of the governments’ failure in providing affordable housing. The government is turning a blind eye to illegal constructions. On the one hand, the state frames near impossible policies in real estate. And on the other hand, when the poor home buyers can’t afford to buy the legal homes, the government not only allows illegal buildings but eventually regularizes the same. This in turn kills the legal property business. The author heads a real estate firm in Pune