AGRA: Intensifying their protest against the attack on an   (AMC) engineer who was allegedly assaulted by Fatehpur Sikri   Chaudhary Udaybhan Singh’s son   on Thursday, a group of sanitation workers on Saturday dumped a large heap of garbage outside the sweet shop owned by the legislator. An FIR was earlier lodged against Devender Singh Chaudhary for allegedly abusing and manhandling Amit Kumar Sonaar, whose team was removing an illegal hoarding of the sweet shop.
 
  Continuing their protest for the second day, employees of AMC and Agra Jal Sansthan skipped work on Saturday demanding the arrest of the MLA’s son. They were joined by the local contractors who too demand immediate action into the matter. The agitators threatened to discontinue all sanitation work and regulate water supply if the local police did not act against the accused within 24 hours.
  
  Vice-president of UP Sanitation Workers’ Association Sundar Babu Chanchal said, “The engineer and his team were doing their duty by removing the illegal hoarding. They were abused and assaulted by the MLA’s son. We will not tolerate this and will protest in every possible way. Authorities must ensure immediate action against the accused.”
  
  A senior civic body official, who did not wish to be named, said, “If sanitation workers go on strike, the entire city will be covered with heaps of garbage. From February 26, a survey commissioned by the central government will be conducted in the city to evaluate the state of sanitation and hygiene. We have been working hard for a good ranking and our work will go in vain.”
  
  “We had directions from the Allahabad High Court to ensure that all illegal hoardings within 50 metres of roundabouts are removed. The ‘Shanti Sweet Shop’ hoarding did not have a licence number and nor did it have a contact number mentioned on it. While our staff was pulling it down, Devender came in an SUV with four men, dragged me to an isolated spot and assaulted me,” Sonaar had said on Friday. After the incident, he was taken to the district hospital for examination and his medical report confirmed eight minor injuries on shoulder, hip, lower limb and ears.
