The IPL auction held in Bengaluru over the weekend created crorepatis out of many young and unknown faces. One of them is India’s U-19 fast bowling sensation, Noida boy  , who was bought by the Kolkata Knight Riders for a whopping `3 crore. The 19-year-old fast bowler has been a revelation in the ongoing Under-19 World Cup in New Zealand, where he has bagged eight wickets at an average of 14 in just four games, and set the speed gun on fire by bowling at over 90 miles per hour.

  
 As soon as the news of his monumental bid spread, Shivam's house in Noida Sector 71 was swarmed by well-wishers and friends, who kept pouring in all through Sunday to offer their congratulations. His father Pankaj Mavi, who works as a government contractor with Noida Authority, says, "Till now, Shivam was known as my son. Now, I am Shivam Mavi's father. There can’t be a prouder moment for a father when he is known to the world because of his son’s achievements."
 
  
  Shivam Mavi at Billabong Academy in Noida (BCCL/ Ranjit Kumar)
 
 
 The cricketer’s family, however, has been unable to speak to Shivam at length, who is currently in New Zealand, training for the all-important semifinal against Pakistan, which will be played on Tuesday. "Coach Rahul Dravid has instructed all the players to switch off their phones for the next five days so that they are not distracted by media or family phone calls before the semifinal and then the final. He called us on Sunday to tell us this and talked to his sister briefly. He said that he was very happy about the IPL auction but his focus is now on the Pakistan game," says his father.
 
  
 Shivam has been training at Noida's   ever since he started playing cricket almost a decade ago. The head coach at the academy,  , says he had expected IPL franchises to bid big for the boy but was surprised at the eventual number. "He bowls with good pace and has swing too. His performances have been talked about in the media as well, so we were hopeful that franchises would go after him. I expected something around a crore for him but this was beyond all expectations. But he has earned this, it is his talent that has got him this," says Sharma.
 
 
  
  
 
 
  Shivam, an alumnus of Noida’s City Public School, will now be rubbing shoulders with some of the best speedsters in the game in the Kolkata team. Apart from his U-19 teammate Kamlesh Nagarkoti, the squad also has Australian fast bowlers   and  . Phool Chand Sharma feels that Shivam has been given a golden opportunity to learn the art of fast bowling at a very young age. "I believe he will get to play a lot of games but even if he doesn’t, just by being in the squad with Starc and Johnson, he will learn so much. These two are masters of fast bowling and I think what they will teach him will be more valuable than the money he has earned," he says.
 
  
 Shivam’s family believes that he is level-headed enough not to be swayed by the fame and money so early in his life. His father Pankaj Mavi tells us, "Money has never been an incentive for him. He just wants to play well and that he will continue to do. Seedha ladka hai. Inn sab cheezon se usse farak nahi padega." 
 
  Pankaj goes on to add that he hopes this achievement doesn’t distract the young fast bowler from his immediate goal - winning the U-19 World Cup. "Now that the IPL auction is done, we hope he can focus on the job at hand - the World Cup semifinal. We are expecting him and the team to win the tournament and return home as world champions. That will double the cause of celebration. I know he has it in him. But regardless of what happens, it will be a royal reception for him when he comes home next week," says Pankaj Mavi.
 
 
  
 
