BENGALURU: A 22-year-old employee of a   was killed and three others, including a woman and her three-year old child, were injured after a two-storey building collapsed following a cylinder explosion at Bapuji Circle in Kadugodi near Whitefield on Sunday.

 Kadugodi police have identified the deceased as Syed Afsar Pasha, a resident of Kadugodi. He was employed by Khalid at BAK Gas Distributors, a private gas agency which operated out of the ground floor of the building. Khalid also operated a bicycle mart from the premises.
 
 One of the 22 LPG cylinders exploded around 10.30am, police said, and the building crumbled under the impact. Four people — Pasha and his colleague Saleem aka Kallu aka Pradeep and Sultana and her son Syed Zain — were trapped in the debris. While Pasha and Saleem were on the ground floor at the time of the explosion, Sultana and Zain were on the upper floor.
 
 Police and fire and emergency services personnel pulled Sultana, 25, and her son Syed Zain out, and the two were ferried to a nearby private hospital for treatment. The mother and son are out of danger, police quoted doctors as saying.
 
 Emergency personnel rescued Saleem, from West Bengal, at 4pm — six hours after the explosion. He is being treated in a private hospital. Pasha was alive when he was rescued from the debris, but succumbed to injuries in the hospital.
 
 Preliminary investigation revealed that Khalid’s son Parvez, who is the building owner, has a licence for the gas agency, but police have registered a case against the duo and detained Parvez. Khalid is still at large.
 
 Police said they are waiting for Saleem to recover to question him on what led to the tragic incident.
 
 “He is in the ICU and we are waiting for the doctor’s nod to record his statement,” a police officer said.
 
 The officer added that a case has been registered against Khalid and his son Parvez under various sections of IPC, The Liquefied Petroleum Gas Act (Regulation of Supply and Distribution) Order and Essential Commodities Act.
 
 Locals allege Khalid and Parvez were illegally refilling LPG cylinders at the outlet.
 
 “We will investigate to find out if this is true,” a police officer said. “We don’t know how many cylinders exploded. That will be clear once the debris is cleared.”
 
 
