 has come to Delhi for numerous concerts and performances, but he says that performing for the students of   is always special. The singer was in the city recently to perform at yet another   college. "It is interesting that I have performed so many times in different colleges in Delhi, but the crowd is such, that each time I am inspired to do something different. The students always want to see something new. When I do unplugged concerts, they are mostly for people who understand music and who often judge you while listening to your music, but students, while they also understand music, they don't judge you. They enjoy all kinds of music, but that doesn't mean that they don't know how to differentiate between good and bad music. Before coming to Delhi, I was checking my social media pages and they were flooded with requests from students. Some songs that are always in demand are 'Chhaiyya Chhaiyya' and 'Fashion Ka Hai Yeh Jalwa'. Also, when I am on stage, my priority is to entertain the crowd, I don't dance as I am not a dancer, but a performance on stage, especially for students, should be a complete package," says Sukhwinder.

  
  Sukhwinder Singh
 
 
 Sukhwinder could not spend too much time here on this visit, but he says that before coming to Delhi, he always has his list of to-dos ready, and having chhole-kulche is an important part of that list. "Whenever I am in Delhi, I make it a point that I have chhole-kulche. When I don't get time to visit any popular eating joint, I just stop my car wherever I spot a hawker selling chhole-kulche. Dilli ki road pe chhole-kulche khaane ka ek alag hi maza hai," he says.
 
 He adds that the spirit of people here is what makes Delhi special. "Delhi is a very colourful place and I think it is rightly described as 
 . People are very positive here, you tell them about any work or problem and they say '
 '. People are always charged, loving and very naughty. I also love those things written on cars here, ‘
 ’. I find it very cute and charming," he says.
 
  
  
 
 Sukhwinder says that in the last two years, he deliberately chose to do limited work, but this year, he has a lot on his plate. "I have sung for 'Thugs Of Hindostan' and 'Zero'. Apart from that, there are a lot of other songs coming up. I took a little break in the last two years because I wanted to go for quality work and not quantity. I am not against the use of technology in music, but technology can’t replace your original voice and talent. There is something called auto-tune, and it works very well with besuras. Today, anyone can sing a song and it can become a hit also, but how long will that person last in the industry? Some think that the use of technology can make anyone a singer, but they can only lip-sync on stage. I am not dependent on technology so much. People have also started concentrating more on their personality instead of their talent. Talent creates glamour, not vice versa," he says, adding that he is strictly against the use of derogatory words in songs and 'cheap lyrics.'
 
  
  
 
 "I think that like we have a censor board for films, we should also have it for songs. I don’t consider this entertainment. One should be greedy for work and fame, but up to a certain limit. You can't write anything just to get popular. I met a director two years back and I told him that there were a lot of abuses in his film, and he told me that I should upgrade myself. I told him that how did actors like   and   never use abuses and still gave us some of the most iconic scenes of Bollywood? Using cheap lyrics or abuses just to make something popular is not good," he says.
  
  
  
 
 
  
 
