NEW DELHI: An   found dead at their house in   last month were   by their  . He was a   and had been   to buy narcotics. 

 The man, Abdul Rehman (22), is an animation designer with a diploma in the subject. He had fallen in love with a woman he met on Facebook and had married her. But he was addicted to heroin. To do drugs and to stay married, he needed money. 
 
 He was employed with a BPO but the money was never enough as all of it used to go in buying drugs. So Rehman would bother his parents, Shamim Ahmed and Taslim Bano, to give him money. 
 
 But this was Rehman’s second marriage. His first marriage had ended in a divorce a year and a half ago. When his parents were found murdered, he had implicated his ex-wife, saying that she had abetted their suicide. He had even registered such a complaint against her. 
 
 Later, he appeared before the media and claimed that his father had been booked for rape due to which he was suffering from depression.
 
 The police found that his versions had gaping holes. AIIMS doctors had by then confirmed to the police that the couple hadn’t died of poisoning as Rehman had claimed. Also, police had learnt through phone records that he was awake all night talking to his associate Nadeem Khan and one Guddu, whom he had roped in for the crime for Rs 2.5 lakh. 
 
 DCP (southeast) Chinmoy Biswal said Rehman fled to Kanpur where he started working at a call centre. When the police had tried to reach him there, his lawyer had confronted them and alleged that the police had been harassing his client after his parents’ death. 
 
 “Then a team led by ACP NFC Jagdish Yadav and SHO Jamia Sanjeev Kumar was formed to interrogate him. He confessed to having murdered his parents,” said DCP Biswal. 
 
 Rehman said that he had reached his house around midnight with Khan and Guddu and smothered his parents as the duo pinned them down on the bed. While leaving, Rehman engaged the autolock on the door and shut it. He then called up his relatives to say that his parents were not opening the door. They came and helped in breaking open the door. 
 
 
