At a time when the picturesque tribal belt of   —Bastar is witnessing Naxalite activities, which makes tourists wary of travelling there, more than 1000 tribal women of   region recently came together in celebration of freedom and strength. The annual festival of t he village —Didi Mandai—saw women coming out of their comfort zones and making their voice heard. Suppressed for a long time, tribal women of all ages shed their inhibitions and used art forms like dance, music and theatre to display the strength of their feminism.   gives you an insight of this unique celebration.

 The main tribes of Bastar include the Gond, Abujmaria, Bisonhorn, Maria, Muria, Halba, Bhatra, Parja, and   communities and they are known for their artistic and cultural diversity. According to sociologist Dr Kavita Banerjee,   is about saying no to all forms of suppression. “These women have been suppressed by men, forces and Naxalite for a very long time. I remember the time when I had gone to Bastar, the village women felt scared of speaking out. They covered their faces to hide their identities. But now things are slowly changing in the interiors of the village. Women are finding their voice and Didi Mandai is a fine example of this change.”
 
 Women of bastar, who were suppressed for many years are now finding their voice to highlight their plight using performing arts. Didi mandai is an example of just that.
 
 The joy and feeling of freedom in the air during the two-day celebration was palpable. As part of the festival, tribal women sang songs of enlightenment, joy, feminine strength and also performed short plays depicting their struggle. A tourist Ayushi Bansal witnessed it all first hand as she says, “Even though travelling to Bastar region is a risky business, my friends and I travelled there for a day. I consider myself lucky to have witnessed celebration of feminism. We could hardly see any men there, it was like women came out with a force to speak against suppression and overcome hardships.”
 With the exception of a few incidents recently, Bastar is no more perilous than other places. Raipur and Jagdalpur are as safe as any other Indian city. One sees the hustle-bustle of a regular small town city in Jagdalpur, the heart and capital of Bastar district. During festivals like the Bastar Dussehra season, you will also find members of the tribal communities taking to the streets but this was a rarest of the rare occasion to see a large crowd of women. One of the tribal women of the region Nagam told a tourist in Gond language that Didi Mandai has given them a voice which they had been deprived of for years.
 A student of sociology Gaurav Bhatt who witnessed the festival says, “The experience to witness an open theatre, listening to tribal songs and eat food cooked by them was simply out of the world for me. They have no electricity, no mobile phones and modern lifestyle is unheard of here. Yet their message was universal and applies everywhere. It was a display of rising above suppression and finding their voice.”
 
