Gurgaon: The problem of   at   has been temporarily taken care of by setting up barricades and deploying   cops at the spot. 

 However, according to road safety experts, while efforts at enforcement are commendable, there has to be a change in the mindset of residents to make this permanent.
 
 After TOI reported on May 9 about wrong-side driving near the Rajiv Chowk flyover, the traffic police finally woke up to the problem and enforced some positive changes. Nearly four days ago, barricades were set up at the busy junction to prevent commuters from taking the wrong side. Traffic   have also been assigned at the spot.
 
 Earlier, many regular commuters from Delhi and Sohna, using the expressway and Sohna road, on reaching Rajiv Chowk, drove on the wrong side to take the Beri Road and reach residential areas such as Shivaji Nagar, Om Nagar and Shanti Nagar, Hans Nagar and Khandsa. Instead of heading all the way to Old Railway Road, they would take a left from Rajiv Chowk on the wrong side, then a right towards Shivaji Nagar and head for these areas, reducing travel by 4-6 kms. 
 
 When the TOI team visited the spot on Friday, a traffic   was seen ushering people to take a U-turn from under the   flyover which is 2kms away from the Rajiv Chowk junction on the NH8. The U-turn was opened to commuters around three months ago and it takes them to the Beri road, without having to take the wrong side. Though it is a longer route, it helps to avoid the grid-locked Old Railway Road which has a number of public offices along it and is also the road taken by traffic headed for Sadar Bazar.
 
 However, a road safety expert based in Gurgaon said, “If the traffic marshall is removed, commuters will start taking the wrong side again, and since the spot is now narrower because of the barricade, it will create further chaos.”
 
 GN Sharma, a resident of Shanti Nagar, expressed his disappointment at the change. He said the decision of placing the barricade was taken in haste and was not a permanent solution. “The Hero Honda U-turn is 2kms away and adds 4kms to the route, which a commuter cannot afford daily,” he said.
 
 According to commuters, the authorities concerned should have considered the issue when the Rajiv Chowk flyover was being built and extended it so that they could take a turn towards Beri road from under it. “If they did not consider the issue while building the flyover, they could have at least built exits towards the colonies when the underpasses were being made,” said Sharma.
 
 “We are trying to guide people to the right direction by deploying marshalls. Taking an U-turn from Hero Honda Chowk is the only solution here. Earlier, this U-turn wasn’t there but now it is mandatory to take it,” said a senior traffic official.
 
 
