Pimpri Chinchwad: Thousands of commuters from Pimpri Chinchwad using the Dapodi-Bopodi road can hope to get rid of the daily traffic congestion as the Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation (PCMC) will be constructing a parallel road. 

 The Dapodi-Bopodi road provides an alternative to commuters from Pimpri Chinchwad who use the Pune-Mumbai highway but face traffic near Harris bridge while going to Bopodi, Aundh, Pune university and other areas.
 
 The traffic from Sangvi to Dapodi gaothan also use this road to reach the Pune-Mumbai highway near Bopodi chowk or to go to Aundh. As a result, the vehicular traffic has increased on Dapodi-Bopodi road.
 
 Aniket Shinde, a resident of Bhosari, said, “There is traffic congestion on the Dapodi-Bopodi road passing from Shivaji chowk to VB Patil bridge as the stretch is narrow and only two four-wheelers can pass. This necessitates the widening of the road to double its width so that vehicles can pass faster.”
 
 Kailas Jadhav, a resident of Pimpri said, “The stretch has a number of turns and must be straightened so that vehicles can move faster.”
 
 Dilip Mane, a resident of Phugewadi, said, “The PCMC-run Bhagat Singh Primary and Secondary School is near the Dapodi railway crossing and Swami Vivekananda School and Junior College is near Dapodi gaothan. A lot of students and parents are on the road when the schools open and close, causing traffic congestion. So, there is a need to widen the Dapodi-Bopodi road or construct an alternate road.”
 
 BJP corporator Asha Shedge said, “There is a 30-metre-wide and 1.5km-long road in the development plan (DP), from Babasaheb Ambedkar statue in Dapodi to VB Patil bridge near Dapodi crematorium. The award for land acquisition was declared and the land has been acquired, but the land is encroached upon by 219 huts. People residing in 110 of those huts can be rehabilitated as it is a declared slum. I will be meeting the municipal commissioner to demand that residents of the remaining huts be provided houses under the Prime Minister Awas Yojana (PMAY) scheme.”
 
 He added, “We will construct the road without affecting Babasaheb Ambedkar’s statue. A tender process has to be conducted to start a transit camp for the people to be shifted for the road project. The construction can easily begin as there are additional funds from another project. We expect the work to begin in six months.”
 
 Shirish Poredi, the spokesperson of the engineering department the PCMC, could not be contacted despite repeated attempts.
 
 
