Surat: Amid tall claims of supplying International Organization for Standardization (ISO) standards water to the Surat’s citizens, the Surat Municipal Corporation (SMC) has spent lakhs of rupees for quenching thirst of its senior authorities and civic staff with bottled water every year.

 SMC is grappling with worst-ever water crisis and trying hard to maintain the quality of water infested with water hyacinth along with heavy release of industrial and other waste water in river Tapi. 
 
 Information sought under the Right To Information (RTI) Act by a city-based activist has revealed that SMC spent close to Rs 12 lakh for purchasing bottled water in the last two years. Though the RTI activist had sought information on the money spent on bottled water in all the seven municipal zones, only three zones reverted with the details explaining the exact amount spent on purchasing bottled water in the year 2015-16 and 2016-17. 
 
 The other four municipal zones turned down giving information stating the petitioner will have to deposit Rs 2 per copy as they have many pages to share. 
 
 Many questions have been raised on the civic authorities for spending lakhs of rupees on the bottled water when they themselves claim that the water supplied in the city confirms to the WHO norms of drinking water and is rated with ISO certification. If this is the case, then why the civic body is spending lakhs of rupees for bottled water and wasting the tax payers’ money. 
 
 RTI activist Rajesh Modi said, “Do all these officials purchase packaged drinking water at home for their families? If not, why do they need packaged drinking water in offices? We are forced to drink stinking water for 4-5 months in a year, but no one cares! Then why officials fear of drinking water supplied by SMC?” 
 
 Modi added, “All the municipal zone offices have water connections. All political visitors and ministers should be offered SMC drinking water at event in refillable bottles. As such 60% of Surat’s population drinks tap water without purification, then why do SMC officials want special treatment?”
 
 A senior health officer, asking anonymity said, “Most of the zone offices in the city have purification plant and the water bottles and jars are purchased during the events and programmes in the zone offices.”
 
 
