MUMBAI: Two more witnesses have been declared hostile in the trial of the 2005 alleged   of   case on Tuesday. This takes the total count of hostile witnesses to 38 out of the 55 witnesses who have deposed so far in the case.

 The duo who came from Gujarat for the hearing were panch witnesses who were to depose on the “handwash” proceedings conducted on Shaikh. The hand wash proceedings are conducted to ascertain if there was gun powder residue on the hands. It was alleged in 2005 that Shaikh was armed when the encounter took place.
 
 The prosecution moved to declare the witnesses hostile after they told the court that they were not present during the actual proceedings conducted by the cops and had only later signed on the panchamana of the proceedings.
 
 The witnesses had contradicted the version allegedly given to the   in 2010. The CBI statement states that on November 26, 2005, they were on their way back from a temple, when they were stopped policemen in civil clothes and informed that an accused “Sohrabuddin” was killed in the police action. The statement further states that they were asked to act as panch witnesses for the hand wash proceedings. It also said that that the duo was then taken to the post mortem room at the Civil Hospital, Ahmedabad where they were shown Shaikh’s body. The witnesses further told the CBI that during the hand wash proceedings, a police officer first took a wet cotton ball and rubbed it over the left hand of Shaikh and then repeated the procedure on the right hand. They allegedly had said that on both occasions, the cotton balls were put in a plastic container, sealed and paper slips containing their signatures were pasted on them.
 
 When asked on Tuesday if any of the police officers present at the hospital were present in court, the witnesses declined recognising anyone.
 
 Meanwhile, the court directed defence advocates to pay Rs 2000 to two other witnesses who had arrived in court but could not depose in their absence. The costs were to reimburse the loss of their daily wages, travelling and other expenses from Gujarat to the city. The money was handed over to the witnesses in the court. The matter will now be heard on Wednesday.
 
 
