AMRITSAR: Ahead of Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau’s Amritsar visit, Sikh separatists in Canada and the UK have ‘cautioned’ him not to mince words in India with respect to Sikhs.

 On Friday, Sikh separatists took no time in reacting over unconfirmed media reports suggesting that Trudeau had no plans yet to meet   chief minister Amarinder Singh during his Amritsar visit.
 
 In an email, national press secretary of the   UK   said that every word Trudeau would speak about the experience of the minority Sikhs in India would be closely ‘watched and dissected’ by the community not only in Canada, but other parts of the globe.
 
 Sikhs For Justice (SFJ) legal adviser Gurpatwant Singh Pannu in an email sent to media claimed, “Canadian Prime Minister’s decision if he sticks to this should be an eye opener for Punjab chief minister.” SFJ website and Facebook page are already banned in India for pushing Khalistani agenda.
 
 Sukhminder Singh Hansara, president Shiromani Akali Dal (Amritsar), Canada East, which is supporting Sikh   movement, said “I applaud the decision of   to stay away from those politicians who previously threw jabs at our Canadian ministers.”
 
 At the same time, stating that such media statements had no relevance in Punjab since these fringe elements had almost no base in India, Sikh intellectual and a professor in the political science department of Guru Nanak Dev University (GNDU) Kuldeep Singh said, “I don’t think that the Canadian government would decide whether PM is to meet Punjab CM or not entirely on the basis of appeal of separatists. The governments don’t function in this manner or reacts to such groups.”
 
 However, he said if Punjab CM had any reservation then it was something else as he had earlier refused to meet Canadian defence minister Harjit Singh Sajjan. Prof Singh said people of Punjab, especially Sikhs, wouldn’t be happy that the Canadian PM didn’t meet the CM. “They will be happy if Trudeau meets the Punjab CM and something tangible comes out of this meeting,” he said.
 
 Welcoming Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau to Punjab and to Darbar Sahib ( ), Sikh group Dal Khalsa has written a letter to him stating that unlike visits of other leading dignitaries, there was a deliberate attempt to embarrass him on the basis of imagined “fears, lies and subterfuge.”
 
 In the letter to Trudeau, Dal Khalsa spokesperson Kanwarpal Singh said they would like to express gratitude to the Canadian government for the respectful status of the Sikhs in the North American country. “Undoubtedly, Canada leads as an example of multiculturalism in the world,” he has written in the letter.
 
 Trudeau is scheduled to pay obeisance at Darbar Sahib on February 21. Recently, the Punjab CM said he would like to meet Trudeau.
 
 
