COIMBATORE: Two Pollachi-based firms — Vinayaga   Producers Company and Coimbatore Coconut Producers Company — will soon submit proposals for setting up neera processing and packaging plants in the district. Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami had on Friday given licence to tap and market neera to the farmer producer companies and also to one in   district.

 Chairman of Vinayaga Coconut Producer Company PK Padmanabhan said the firm had applied for the licence about three months ago. It has been tapping neera and making neera sugar as part of research, he told TOI. “We had been conducting trials by supplying neera to local outlets in juice dispensers to keep it cold. We plan to introduce neera in tetra packs so that cold chain transportation would be easy,” he said.
 
 There are two methods to arrest the fermentation of neera and prevent it turning into toddy. One is to keep it in cold storage and the other is to add an anti-fermenting solution to the drink, which would make it possible to store it in room temperature. “Both the farmer producer companies in Coimbatore have opted for the cold chain process, as adding the anti-fermenting solution would alter its taste,” said an official from the agriculture marketing department.
 
 Padmanabhan said the company would need at least two acres to set up the plant. “We would need the equipment for cold storage and packing. Setting up a plant would need at least Rs 2 crore,” he said. 
 
 “A coconut tree can yield up to 5litres of neera depending on its health and age. At present, a litre of neera is being sold for Rs 125,” he added.
 
 Chairman of the Coimbatore Coconut Producer Company RA Sakthivel said the company consisted mostly of small farmers, who found it difficult to tap neera and store it in cold conditions. “As we have now acquired the licence for producing neera, we hope the   would be benefited,” he said. The company has more than 1,800 farmers under it while Vinayaga Coconut Producers Company has more than 2,000 farmers.
 
 The companies have been asked to submit proposals for setting up the plant to the horticulture department this week. The proposals would be forwarded to the collector. After the collector clears them, the proposals would be sent to the secretary of the horticulture department. Officials of the department said they were planning to get funds for the companies from the National Horticulture Mission.
 
 The chief minister, in a release on Friday, said that value-added products such as neera sugar, neera jaggery, neera honey, neera chocolates and neera cakes would provide employment in rural areas and also increase farmers’ income.
 
 
