MUMBAI: The state’s   has issued a directive asking colleges to complete   by  . But, over 60% commerce teachers had not assessed a single paper till January 2.

 The directive is currently issued only for   papers, which have the highest number of examinees. Assessment of papers from other courses is said to be going on at a smooth pace, with   papers nearing completion.
 
 A circular issued by the joint director of higher education, Mumbai division, on January 2, stated, “Of the 2,224 teachers from the commerce faculty tagged for online assessment of papers, 1,399 have not assessed a single paper till date.” Exams got over in November and assessment process commenced in December. The circular further states the department had decided to intervene since tardy assessment was likely to hit students.
 
  
  
 
 Of the 12.8 lakh answer scripts currently slated for assessment, 50% are from the commerce faculty, followed by technology. Data from the university shows only 1.78 lakh of the 6.2 lakh commerce answer scripts have been assessed so far and only a little over 17,000 have been moderated.
 
 The letter from the joint director’s office states principals, in their capacity as heads of examination centres and CAP (centralized assessment process) centres, should ask teachers who are already tagged by the online software to assess papers. Secondly, the department has asked colleges to identify teachers who are yet to be tagged and get them to register on the software.
 
 The department has asked colleges to ensure assessment of commerce papers is completed by January 10.
 
 The directive comes close on the heels of the Christmas vacation which saw low turnout of teachers at CAP centres. “The numbers mentioned in the circular do not seem accurate. The number of non-reporting teachers could be a little exaggerated,” said a principal.
 
 Another principal said if teachers completed at least 500 of the papers assigned to them, the target could be achieved. “But January 10 is an unrealistic  . Also, the student-faculty ratio for commerce is skewed,” he added. There are too many students taking commerce and allied courses, but most colleges run do not have the desired number of teachers,” he said.
 
 An official from the department said assessment had picked speed after the circular was issued to principals and more papers are being assessed every day as compared to what was achieved last month.
 
 While the university had earlier claimed the delay in results of the November exam may not have an impact on students’ careers as it is a mid-term exam, most principals are worried about its cascading effect on the April-May exam.
 
 
