PUNE: Maharashtra is the hottest state in the country this April so far, India Meteorological Department ( ) data shows. Meteorologists attributed the heat to clear skies and strong solar radiation. 

 Chandrapur, Wardha, Malegaon, Brahamapuri, Akola and recently Parbhani were the six locations with high temperatures. 
 
 
  
  
 
 Chandrapur on April 20 recorded the highest day temperature of this summer at 45.9 degrees celsius. One or the other of the six stations bore the ‘hottest’ tag for 16 days, and Chandrapur was consecutively the hottest from April 16 to 21.
 
 Most of April has been so hot in parts of the state that locations in Maharashtra became the hottest in the country on 16 out of the 24 days in the month up till now. Bhira is no longer taken into account.
 
 Maharashtra has also had the highest number of stations in any state to record the hottest day temperatures in the country this April. 
 
 Stations in hotter states like Rajasthan like Phalodi, Churu and Barmer recording the highest day temperatures only on six days during the month, while stations in east Madhya Pradesh were the hottest on a couple of days during this period. 
 
 Gujarat stations like Amreli and Surendranagar were the hottest in country on a couple of days as well during this period.
 
 AK Srivastava, head of climate monitoring and analysis group at IMD, told TOI that usually central parts and peninsular India tend to have higher temperatures during April than the rest of the country. 
 
 “The heat belt will gradually shift to the north in May and to Pakistan in June. Also north India was relatively cooler with frequent thunderstorms in western Himalayas, Jammu & Kashmir, Uttarakhand, Punjab from April 6 to 13, which kept the temperature cooler there in comparison to Maharashtra,” Srivastava said.
 
 Meteorologist and All-India Internet Weather Radio Station founder J R Kulkarni said the region which stretches from Ahmedabad to Odisha, which also includes adjoining Madhya Pradesh, Vidarbha, parts of Telangana and Andhra Pradesh, is where air subsidence takes place, which is unfavourable for the formation of mature clouds, which exacerbates heat conditions here. 
 
 “Skies have been clear, which has been causing direct impact of solar radiation. Also, the local variability of the regions such as soil and vegetation cover also influence temperatures,” Kulkarni added.
 
 
