Ludhiana: From now on, using drones for any purpose in the city has been banned by the local police, following guidelines issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs. On the violation of orders, the person will be booked under different sections, and punishment for the same can extend up to two years of imprisonment.

 On Friday, Ludhiana police issued ban orders stating it had been noticed that people use drones for shooting of marriage functions and rallies. However, anti-national elements can use it to create a threat to security. The matter was taken up with the Ministry of Home Affairs that had banned the usage of drones without permission.
 
 Deputy commissioner of police (DCP) Dhruman Nimbale said the government identified the movement of such drones near border areas and security installations. Moreover, any anti-national element can misuse drones to attack public places, airports, bus stands, railway stations, and security installations like Mini Secretariat, jail, any headquarter, or to attack a VVIP. Therefore, the government has banned the used drones without permission. 
 
 The DCP added that if anyone was found flying drones in a 30km area around the commissionerate and a 5km area around the residence of any VVIP, the person would be booked under sections 287 (negligent conduct with respect to machinery), 336 (act endangering life or personal safety of others), 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) and 338 (causing grievous hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) of the IPC, punishment for which can extend up to two years of imprisonment. The official added that the ban orders also supports the right of privacy and ensures a woman’s safety.
 
 Further, DCP Nimbale said: “Anyone willing to take permission to fly a drone can approach the deputy commissioner or the commissioner of police at least 15 days in advance. If the reason his genuine, only then would the application be moved for approval. However, the final approval will be given by the Ministry of Home Affairs. Besides, anyone finding any person violating orders can immediately report to the police station concerned.” 
 
 
