Three city colleges organsied an equal number of events during the weekend that saw a melange of activities. From music and dance performances, exhibition of innovative projects to fashion show and sports meet, it was one helluva weekend for college-goers in Hyderabad

 
 
 Popular Indi-pop singer Baba Sehgal was the star attraction at the Annual Day celebration of   of Engineering and Technology, Kompally. The ‘Power Singer’, known for his hits Gabbar Singh, Mr Perfect and Jalsa, among others, enthralled the students with his high-octane performance and got the crowd to groove with him. Speaking about his performance, the singer said, “I have been invited many a time to perform at the college. It’s always wonderful to perform in and around Hyderabad and the energy of the crowd is very contagious. I have sung close to 100 songs for Tollywood and I have a good rapport with fans here." 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 The 16th anniversary celebrations of  , Meerpet was a grand affair that the students will cherish in times to come. The three-day gala event kick-started on Thursday with a sports meet. A fashion show, held in the evening at the college auditorium, saw enthusiastic students walking the ramp showcasing traditional attire, much to delight of the audience. A Bollywood musical night enchanted the students on Friday evening as popular singers belted some latest chartbusters making the crowd sway to their beats. Curtains to the festivities were brought down on Saturday with the ‘Grand Finale’ that featured a number of traditional and modern dance performances.
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 Project Expo 2018’, held at  , Medchal recently saw enthusiastic students showcasing more than 100 projects at the gala annual event. The event gave the students a unique platform to showcase their innovative creations and get feedback from some of the best names in the industry. Aimed at honing the skills of the students and provide them an interface with the industry, the event saw students identifying problems and later coming up with solutions through user-friendly and economical ways. The valedictory function held in the college saw meritorious students being felicitated with prizes.
 
  
 
  
 
