PATNA: Union minister of state for health and family welfare Ashwini Kumar Choubey on Sunday inaugurated eight new departments at All India Institute of Medical Sciences-Patna (AIIMS-P). 

 He also inaugurated three other facilities, including new outdoor patient department (OPD) building, blood bank and indoor patient department (IPD) in block-D of the hospital. 
 
 The new departments inaugurated include gastroenterology, neurology, burn and plastic surgery, transfusion medicine and blood bank, surgical gastroenterology, oncology haematology medicine, surgical oncology and psychiatry. With the inauguration of the two new IPD blocks, the number IPD beds in the hospital has increased from 196 to 400. 
 
 Choubey said with the new departments at AIIMS-P, patients from Bihar wouldn’t have to visit other states for treatment. “Most of the patients visiting AIIMS-New Delhi are from Bihar and Uttar Pradesh (UP). With these facilities at AIIMS-P, people from nearby states can also visit AIIMS-P and receive treatment as well as healthcare,” he said. 
 
 AIIMS-P director Dr Prabhat Kumar Singh said emergency services would also be started at AIIMS-P soon. The new departments would be an addition to the existing 22 departments at the hospital. AIIMS-P started its operation in 2012, but it did not have the facilities such as blood bank or emergency services.
 
 Choubey also announced funds to the effect of Rs2,000 crore that have been approved for setting up health and wellness centres in various villages across the country. The heath and wellness centres to be set up under the National Health Mission (NHM) would provide a package of 12 services towards preventive, promotive, curative and rehabilitative care. 
 
 The state government is also trying to establish more than 500 health and wellness centres by converting the existing health sub-centres where better treatment facilities would be provided. “With Ayushman Bharat (Modi Care), nearly 10 crore families or 50 crore people would benefit from the scheme by getting healthcare insurance,” Choubey added.
 
 
