GURUGRAM: The city witnessed a 35 per cent dip in PM2.5 levels on Monday as compared to Tuesday, thanks to increase in wind speed and better sunlight. The highest level of PM2.5 on Monday was reported at 107.99 micrograms per cubic metre. On Sunday, the highest level of PM2.5 was recorded at 167 and on Saturday, it was nearly 137. 

 The Air Quality Index (AQI), however, increased from 245 to 333 which falls under the ‘very poor’ category as a result of the increased concentration of PM2.5 on Sunday midnight.
 
 Officials of   (HSPCB) said that a slight increase in wind speed and sunlight during the day led to the dip in PM2.5 levels. “It is good news that the PM2.5 level is decreasing in Gurugram. We are expecting the level to come down further within the next 24 to 48 hours. Now, there is no need to implement emergency measures. However, we are following anti-pollution norms for the ‘poor’ category air as per the graded response action plan (GRAP),” said a   official.
 
 However, according to experts, the city is still engulfed by fog and a decrease in the concentration of PM2.5 for a day doesn’t make much difference. “It can’t be said that pollution is under control because PM2.5 concentration has dipped for a day or two. The dip was witnessed due to better sunlight, but the level will go up again on a foggy day. So, there is an urgent need to stop all man-made factors causing pollution,” said  , a retired environmental engineer.
 
 On Monday, the minimum temperatures in Gurugram city rose to 8 degrees Celsius and maximum temperatures rose to 22 degrees Celcius. On Sunday, the minimum and maximum temperatures were at 7 and 21 degrees Celcius, respectively. Officials at the Regional Weather Forecasting Centre (RWFC) said that the city is likely to experience hotter afternoons as the week progresses. According to officials, the rising mercury will ease the fog and make it shallower. Meanwhile, visibility is likely to improve as winds pick up pace.
 
 The RWFC officials said that the warmer trend would continue this week, before the temperature nosedives again. They have ascribed the change to an approaching Western Disturbance, which is likely to result in rains and snowfall in the mountainous states of Jammu & Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh. According to officials, such a system is normally accompanied with rising temperatures in neighbouring states. They said the maximum temperatures were likely to rise to 24-25 degrees Celsius in the next 48 hours, with warmer conditions during the day time. The minimum temperatures, too, will increase slightly to 8-10 degrees Celcius. However, colder conditions will grip the city after the winds stop.
 
 
