LUCKNOW: After she drew a blank in the 2014 Lok   polls and had to rest content with a humiliating score of 19 seats in last year's UP assembly contest, many pundits seemed inclined to write   off. Apart from political diminution, she also faced corruption charges, including that she would auction BSP support to the highest bidder. 

 On Wednesday, however, she proved wrong all those who had proceeded to pen her political obituary, by helping   pull off stunning victories in both   and Phulpur.
 
 The results, which ended the aura of invincibility around BJP, should quell doubts about her ability to take her Dalit constituency where she would like them to go. In this instance, she got them to vote for Samajwadi Party despite the hostile equations they have shared with Yadavs, the mainstay of Samajwadi base, for decades.
 
 Though the animosity between the two sections pre-dates the rise of BSP, it has acquired the dimensions of a blood feud after the attack on her at a state guest house by Samajwadi Party workers in 1995.
 
 It took just one call from Mayawati to her supporters to bring down the wall of distrust, clearing the way for a social combination which along with Muslims will be a source of worry for BJP in the run-up to the 2019 polls. Political pundits who claimed that alliance between the two parties would not work even for 10 days were proven wrong. So was perhaps UP chief minister Yogi Adityanath, going by his acknowledgement that BJP was guilty of underestimating the strength of SP-BSP understanding.
 
 This is perfectly in keeping with BSP's playbook. The party has used its grip over Dalits to build successful combinations with other castes-both at constituency and state levels.
 
 BSP was not in direct contest and Mayawati was not active on the ground. Neither did she campaign nor did she come in front of the media. But she had her ears to the ground every hour after she deployed her party's first-time MLA from Chillupar Vinay Shankar Tewari in Gorakhpur and party's Rajya Sabha member Ashok Siddharth. Son of Brahmin strongman Harishankar Tewari, Vinay settled scores with Yogi and the Math. He had contested the 2009 Lok Sabha election against Yogi and was defeated. But this time, he found an occasion to settle old scores by ensuring that a big section of the Brahmins voted for the SP candidate rather than fellow Brahmin and BJP candidate Upendra Shukla.
 
  "The BSP voters swarmed polling booths as early as 6.30 am and voted with vengeance," was the observation of a senior SP leader.
 
 Just after the Yogi government came to power, there were bitter caste riots in western UP with Dalits at the receiving end, he adds. Besides, when this government went ahead with a sudden ban on slaughter houses and meat shops, citing NGT orders but without an alternative plan, Dalits became as much victims as Muslims, he added.
 
 What added to their ire was appointment of OP Singh as UP DGP. He was the SSP of Lucknow when there was a assault on Mayawati in 1995. 
 
 The "silent" voters of BSP, a fraction of which was supporting lotus in the past two polls, got united to shock Maya's political rivals. 
 
 
