CHANDIGARH: UT administrator V P Singh Badnore’s address to the MC House — a first in the civic body’s history— is being seen as a crucial political and administrative move of the new  , Davesh Moudgil, and his mentor, former Chandigarh MP  , especially in a time when the city BJP has been riddled with infighting. 

 Sources confirmed that since Moudgil would not get any cooperation and support from most of his fellow councillors, Monday’s move had paved the way for having fruitful relations between the UT administration and the civic body. “It will ensure smooth functioning of the MC. Also, UT administration might now provide additional support and help to Moudgil during his tenure,” said sources.
 
 Since city MP   and Jain, who has also been holding the crucial post of additional solicitor general of India, had openly supported Moudgil in the mayoral poll against party president Sanjay Tandon’s group, the new mayor could find himself in challenging situations in near future, said sources. “City mayor will have not to only deal with issues related to the MC, but also with councillors of his party. Therefore, it is really crucial for him to get full support of the UT administration to run the MC smoothly. Though he has made a good beginning, keeping all this up will be challenging for him,” said sources.
 
 The source added Moudgil would be expecting more support from Kher and Jain. “They will not leave any stone unturned to ensure his mayoral tenure is a successful one; it is a fact that both these senior leaders will work as a bridge between the MC and UT administration. Jain recently took Moudgil to meet the Vice-President, M  . Thus, it is clear Moudgil will have parallel support from his political masters,” the source said. 
 
 In what could be as signs of the rift widening within the BJP, all councillors from Tandon’s group kept away from filing papers for the civic body’s finance and contracts committee (F&CC). “Now, the same group members visited New Delhi to complani against Moudgil, but they did not get a concrete response,” the source.
 
 
