MADURAI: The unexpected hike in   bus fares has upset the travel plans of many people who had been looking forward to spending a long weekend beginning Republic Day. They had been denied an extended holiday for Pongal as the festival fell on a Sunday this year. With private buses already being booked in spite of being expensive, many have had to change their plans. 

 P Panchu of   said that she had been eagerly awaiting her brother’s customary annual visit with his family. “They are a family of six for whom   was the cheapest mode of travel as booking in advance was always a problem. They always set aside Rs 7,500 for this annual journey from Chennai, but now with SETC fares having gone up to Rs 515 per person for a one-way journey, they have called off the trip,’’ she said. 
 
 With no action being taken to stop private carriers from jacking up fares during the festival season, the fares in these buses had increased many fold. Many of the regular private services are already fully booked — the tickets are usually booked through online sites. The exorbitant fares being charged by the new services are now visible with ticket prices ranging between Rs 1,200 and Rs 1,800 for travelling from Madurai to Chennai on January 28.
 
 K Sugumar from Usilampatti, working in Bangalore, said that he was lucky enough to travel with a friend driving down to Madurai from Bangalore on Thursday. “I took the day off and came, but now booking a return ticket is a big problem since the bus fares in private carriers are very high,’’ he said. Now, he has decided to travel back a day in advance on Saturday.
 
 C Ramesh of   says that it would be better to avail of leave and come on working days as the loss of pay would be lesser than the bus fares on many routes. ``Booking in advance and travelling by train seem to be the cheapest mode of travel now,’’ he said.
 
 While long-distance buses have turned very costly, even those plying to Coimbatore and Nagercoil — which are less than half the distance to Chennai — have risen steeply on private buses.” It was earlier just Rs 125 from Coimbatore to Madurai by TNSTC, but after the hike it has gone up to Rs 180. Now, private buses are charging up to Rs 800 for Sunday,’’ said  , a student in Coimbatore. However, the problem was that all   buses would be overcrowded throughout the day on Sunday. ``TNSTC journey to Nagercoil from Madurai is Rs 230 now but private buses will double the fare at the end of the long weekend,’’ says C  . RTO sources said that they would conduct inspections on January 28 for long-distance buses to ensure that the passengers were not being fleeced.
 
 
