HYDERABAD: With eateries atop the Tirumala hills continuing to fleece devotees despite a directive to the   management to stop it, Hyderabad High Court on Tuesday pulled up the authorities and questioned why they are failing to instil the fear of God in the minds of the hoteliers.

 “Put the fear of God in them. Ask your authorities to involve the task force and the vigilance wing, to conduct flash raids, keep monitoring and launch repeat raids till you see the fear in them. If you cannot do this in the Lord’s premises, where else can you do that?” a bench of acting Chief Justice Ramesh Ranganathan and Justice K   told the TTD counsel.
 
 The bench was hearing a public interest petition filed by Parihara Sevasamithi President Dr.   who questioned the official apathy despite the hoteliers fleecing devotees for selling food items. The intervention of the court had bettered things to a large extent and TTD has even decided to introduce a special mobile phone app to enable the pilgrims to lodge complaints but, according to the petitioner, much more needs to be done.
 
 Summing up the current scenario at Tirumala, petitioner’s counsel Chandramouli on Tuesday told the Bench that the TTD has cancelled the licences of several hotels rendering them defunct. “The process of entrusting the running of these hotels to new traders did not even commence. In the name of implementing court orders in respect of controlling the greedy hoteliers, the TTD is seemingly bringing the situation back to square one with its dodging ways for the last two months. Now, we are facing a situation where we have only two or three hotels at Tirumala. Thousands of pilgrims throng them. No price boards. They do not even give bills indicating charges. No evidence to prove the exploitation. Hence the question of pilgrims lodging complaints does not arise. Huge money is being made by these hoteliers. Since billing is not there, there is no GST and this results in loss to the exchequer. And the commercial taxes counsel did not even appear before the court to explain their efforts.”
 
 TTD counsel   told the court that   (TCS) which was entrusted with the task of developing a mobile app has completed its task. “Maybe in the next two days, we will make it available to the people to use it. As far as food is concerned, their gigantic Annadaan programme is catering to the food needs to a large extent and that they will finalize the tender process for all the commercial hotels soon,” he said.
 
 The bench asked him not to give them philosophical replies and told him to brief the specific steps to curb the menace. “How many checks have you conducted? What action have you taken on such hoteliers? What are you proposing to do to throw out repeat offenders and punish them? Pilgrims are generally worried about darshan and not about your bills. It is your duty to serve them well. File an affidavit stating all these,” the bench told the counsel. The case will be heard after two weeks.
 
 
 
 
