GURUGRAM: The district administration has decided to install retro reflective sign boards ahead of   and Khandsa villages on NH-8 to curb road accidents in the area. The decision was taken by deputy commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh at a meeting he held with officials from other departments, including MCG, PWD and  , on Thursday.

 TOI had in January reported that Narsinghpur, a village of around 15,000 located on either side of NH-8 near Kherki Daula toll plaza, has seen the highest number of fatal accidents in Gurugram over the past few years, mostly involving people trying to cross the road. Locals say 40 to 50 people fall prey to hit-and-run accidents every year.
 
 Asserting the state government is serious about the ‘vision zero’ campaign to reduce accidents on roads, the deputy commissioner said retro reflective sign boards would alert motorists travelling on NH-8 that a village is around.
 
 The district administration, along with the city’s   police, is also planning an audit of all the underpasses in the city as well as creating an action plan for evacuation in an emergency situation. The deputy commissioner said the departments related to road engineering have been asked to make an evacuation plan within 10 days and share the same with the police and public.
 
 DCP (traffic) Deepak Gahlawat, who also attended the meeting, also asked officials to install streetlights and high-mast lights at Rajiv Chowk, Signature Tower Chowk, IFFCO Chowk and Bilaspur Chowk.
 
 “Traffic pressure at these junctions is high. And in the absence of sufficient lighting, there is risk of accidents at these junctions,” he said. The DCP also instructed the NHAI and MCG to ensure proper lighting in the footover bridges.
 
 The vision zero’s programme manager and road safety associate   apprised the DCP of the accident spots where speeding is a major concern. The DCP instructed the NHAI to increase the patrolling frequency and also asked traffic cops to coordinate with NHAI on the same.
 
 “The district’s accident rate will come down if the departments coordinate between each other,” the deputy commissioner said.
 
