NAGPUR: A villager, on behalf of 56 families from the little-known Awarmara village in   tehsil of Nagpur district, has knocked the judiciary’s doors for immediate rehabilitation of the entire village as it is facing the serious threat of submergence due to rising waters of the   dam project.

 A division bench comprising justices Bhushan Dharmadhikari and   issued notices to the Union ministry of water resources and river development and State Water Resources Department (WRD) asking them to reply by June 13. Nagpur collector and executive engineer of Gosikhurd project are other respondents in the PIL filed by Kawadu Wanjari, a farmer, through counsel Prakash Randive.
 
 The remote village is surrounded by water bodies from three sides — Kanhan river is in the east and north while a big canal flows on the southern side. Over a thousand inhabitants faced the threat of submergence in case any wall of the dam breaks or during heavy rains. The children need to travel over 40 kms to Navegaon to attend school and it is the same for villagers wanting medical help.
 
 A majority of farmers travel on boats to go to their farms and they find it difficult to carry equipment, fertilizers and other heavy machinery every day. They also faced several health problems due to stagnant dam water which has become a breeding ground for mosquitoes. 
 
 The polluted water has also percolated into septic tanks and, worsened the sanitation condition and made the toilets non-usable. To add to the woes, even the well from where they used to fetch drinking after, has become contaminated due to the dam water and its level has also increased.
 
 After villagers complained, Kuhi tehsildar and the Umred sub-divisional officer (SDO) visited the village on June 2, 2016. Both officials concluded in their report that the dam walls would pose danger to the village in case of a breakdown. Also, on account of heavy rainfall the rise in water levels can cost severe losses to economy and lives of the inhabitants. 
 
 The residents took up the issue with guardian minister Chandrashekhar Bawankule and also approached chief minister Devendra Fadnavis. However, after failing to get any response from either they approached the HC. As of date, 99 villages affected by the Gosikhurd dam have been rehabilitated and provided with civic amenities as per Section 10 of the Maharashtra Project Affected Persons Rehabilitation Act, 1999, they contended.
 
 The aggrieved petitioners prayed for immediate steps to rehabilitate the whole village to a convenient place and provide all basic civic amenities. They demanded directives to the respondents to enquire about losses caused to them regarding their properties and agriculture fields and provide them with adequate compensation. They also want a district level committee to be set up that would include health experts who would take cognisance of all the geographical and health problems they were facing.
 
