SECUNDERABAD: Scores of passengers commuting from the city have been going through a harrowing time for the past few days with several trains of the South Central Railway (SCR) running off their schedule.

 It has become almost a daily affair for authorities to postpone some important trains or cancel them partially on the ground that the corresponding trains (or paired trains) are running behind schedule. Even special trains, rolled out to earn additional revenue by accommodating waitlisted passengers, have also been hit by delays.
 
 Complaining about the matter,  , a commuter, said, “I had booked tickets for the special train to Raxaul, which was to depart from   at 9.40pm last Tuesday. I reached the station with my family almost an hour in advance. The enquiry counter informed us that the train had to be rescheduled to 2pm as its pair was running late.”
 
 On April 11, people had to spend as many as five hours at   station as the16353 weekly express bound for Nagercoil chugged out at 9.15 pm. “The train was supposed to leave Kacheguda at 4pm, but railway authorities announced that they had deferred its departure by five hours. The delay in train services is making us reach our destinations late,” said a passenger Mahesh.
 
 On Thursday, SCR partially terminated Pune-Nizamabad passenger and Nizamabad-Pandharpur passenger between Nizamabad and Purna stations due to the late running of their corresponding trains. This drew flak from miffed passengers who had to cancel their trips to the   district of  .
 
 Recently, a H S Nanded-Medchal passenger train was cancelled. While train no 57593 (Medchal-H S  ) departed from Nizamabad, its corresponding train no 57594 was cancelled between Nizamabad and Medchal.
 
 Railway officials said delay in train departures because of paired trains running late can happen sue to various reasons. “If the corresponding trains reach the originating destinations for return trips, passengers will get respite from such delays,” an official told TOI.
 
 Meanwhile, on April13,  , which was scheduled to depart Hyderabad at 6.25am, will now leave at 10.25am because its corresponding train is running late.
 
