KOLKATA: Love is in the air, and there’s no getting away from the love bug with   just three days away, especially if all the mush promises to fill up the cash coffers. The most romantic day of the year is almost here when retailers and   are planning to cash in on the power of love.

 Many in the leisure-spending trade are expecting good business throughout the V-Day week because this is in a sense first occasion after the   where leisure spending may experience traction. From cafes and nightclubs to florists and eateries, everybody has spread out lavish offers.
 
 Everyone is trying to board the V-Day gravy train. If hotels are offering special discounts for overnight stays for couples, mobile companies are proposing attractive prices for combo offers. Online stores are conducting sales. “The situation has improved and people are willing to spend. We are hoping that the floodgates open on Valentine’s Day,” said Nitish Saraf of Tipsy Bull on Burdwan Road. He has designed a special menu for V-Day along with some groovy music by DJ Harish. There will be a 15% discount for those who were born in February.
 
 Even when saying it with flowers, people are planning to do it in style. “Orchids are the big favourites this year,” said   of Petals in  . “We have also received orders to decorate rooms at private residences.” The Bridge at Floatel has slashed its buffet prices to Rs 899 for V-Day while Afraa Lounge in City Centre is hosting a V-Day carnival. 
 
 
 
 
 
 At Archies in New Market and Kankurgachi, big discounts are the bait for young buyers and small spenders. “Stuffed toys, junk jewellery, greeting cards and other accessories are in good demand,” said an official.
 
 “Emotion is the key,” says marketing consultant Sandip Bhagat. “Emotional needs drive the market, especially during V-Day. This is the reason behind the market growing so big in India. In Kolkata I have seen children giving V-Day gift to parents and grandparents and vice-versa. This shows the occasion has becomes more Indianised and the market is growing,” said Bhagat.
 
 Love birds have already planned how they will be spending the festival of love. “We have made reservations for a pool-side dinner at a star hotel in the city,” said Veronica Gupta, an advertisemnet professional. 
 
