SHIMLA: Chief minister Jai Ram   on Saturday launched three schemes for the welfare and development of the state — Jan Manch for redressing public grievances in an effective manner,   aimed at providing assistance to youth of the state for self employment ventures and   for ensuring women empowerment and environment conservation by providing gas cylinder security and gas stoves to women who were not covered under the Ujjwala Yojana launched by the Centre. 

 He said all these schemes were launched on the occasion of completion of four years of Union government. He said that Jan Manch would go a long way in prompt redress of public grievances. Thakur further said that this programme would not only ensure that the schemes launched for the welfare of the people were completed well in time, but also ensure that the desired results were achieved. 
 
 He said that Swavlamban Yojana would provide self-employment opportunities to the youth of the state. He said that youth in the age group of 18 to 35 years would be provided 25% investment subsidy for purchase of machineries and inputs on a loan amount of Rs 40 lakh. He said that for women this subsidy would be 30%. In addition, 5% interest subsidy will be provided for three years, he added.
 
 The chief minister said the Himachal Grihini Suvidha Yojana was aimed at empowerment of women and environment conservation. He said that women would be provided gas connections and it be would ensured that every house has a gas connection. He said that a package of Rs 3,500 would be provided under this scheme, which would include a gas cylinder and gas stove. He said that with this   would become the first state of the country with every household being smoke-free kitchen. 
 
 Meanwhile, former chief minister Prem Kumar Dhumal said that the present state government was not only fulfilling its promises, but also going a step ahead by launching several ambitious schemes for the welfare of the people of the state. He also appreciated the endeavours of the state government for initiating 30 schemes for the people of the state.
 
 
