CHENNAI: Against the state transport department’s claim that the increase in government bus fares would bring in more revenue, government records accessed by 
  suggest that transport corporations continue to incur losses, at least ₹4 crore a day.

 Since January 19, when the revised fares came into effect before being partially rolled back, the daily footfall in government buses has reduced from 1.82 crore to nearly 1.60 crore, the data shows. Nearly 16 lakh passengers, who were using buses regularly, have now switched to trains and share autos.
 
 
  
  
 
 Corroborating this, data from Southern Railway shows there was an increase of 7.95 lakh passengers on Chennai suburban trains between January 20 and 26, which corresponds to an additional revenue of 1.96 crore. Nearly 70 % among them purchased monthly seasonal tickets, indicating a long-term switch from buses.
 
 
  
 Demand for share autos, too, has shot up in Chennai, particularly along routes in which express services are operated by  , said  , a CITU representative of share auto drivers. "Share autos which usually ply in the suburbs extended their trips to core areas in the city," he said. 
 
 After the bus fares were increased by a maximum of nearly 67%, for the first time in more than six years, protests erupted across the state, mainly by opposition parties and students, forcing the government to announce a reduction in fares in selected services. As a result, the expected daily revenue came down from 35 crore to 36 crore to 31 crore to 32 crore. But, the actual revenue was only around 28 crore a day, show state transport department records. 
 
 Since increasing fares, the transport department has only managed to bring down daily losses from 9 crore to 4 crore, government records indicate.Responding to this, a senior transport department official said, "The (revenue) figures are increasing of late and things would be set right soon."
 
 Transport minister   admitted that they were incurring losses till date, but refused to reveal more info on these lines.
 
 Members of transport unions say the government must change its thinking about transport corporations. "Losses are inevitable as government buses are operated along 8,000 uneconomical routes. Instead of looking it as a revenue model, it should be treated like any other service sector company," said K   of the  .
 
