NEW DELHI: The government on Tuesday indicated it would come up with separate norms to deal with insolvency proceedings against small and medium scale enterprises (MSMEs) to protect their interests.

 “What do you do with the MSME sector? With regard to the MSME sector, the   has already been looking into this issue as to whether we require a separate set of regulations to deal with them. They have been asked to give the report within three months and once that recommendation comes, we will apply ourselves to it and if necessary, come back to this House if any changes are required to deal with the MSME sector,” finance minister   said while responding to suggestions from Congress leader   during the discussion on the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code (IBC) (Amendment) Bill.
 
 The Rajya Sabha unanimously approved the bill which aims to keep defaulting promoters out of the resolution process of insolvent companies. The   had earlier approved the legislation. Initiating the discussion, former finance minister   said the changes in the law may keep out a large number of domestic investors and more foreign investors will take advantage. He said the “over-exclusion” may reduce the number of bidders.
 
 Chidambaram said very few people in India will be eligible to bid and there is a possibility that asset-reconstruction companies and alternative investment bodies registered abroad will turn out to be the bidders.
 
 “Most Indian companies, which go through a resolution process, will pass from the hands of an Indian management to a foreign management. I have no objection to foreigners coming into India and investing. But I think a level-playing field should have been created for an adequate number of Indian companies, adequate number of Indian investors to bid for these assets rather than excluding them by this very over-inclusive ordinance which will keep out, in my view, a large number of potential Indian investors. The danger is, most of these companies will go to the control of foreigners or foreign companies or multinationals,” the former FM said.
 
 Both Chidambaram and Ramesh from Congress and other MPs from opposition benches wanted to know whether there was a benchmark of how much haircut (waiving off of loan) the lenders can take while resolving insolvency cases.
 
 Responding to these queries, Jaitley said it’s for the committee of creditors to take the decision and they have the liberty not to accept any bid if they are not satisfied. Fresh bids can be invited in such cases, the FM said.
 
