MANGALURU: Mangaluru City police on Tuesday arrested five men on charges of   and attempt to  . The accused are Dheeraj Kumar alias Dheeru, 23, from Padil, Pranesh Poojary, 21, from Vamanjoor, Neekshith Poojary, 21, from Kannur, Preetham Poojary, 22, from Bajal, and Nithin Poojary, 20, from Arkula.

 Police said on April 15, the gang allegedly forced Glanson, a resident of Jalligudde, on one of their bikes from Bikarnakatte to Adyar railway track and held him to ransom there. They snatched his cellphone worth Rs 15,000 at knife-point. The gang later called his family members and demanded Rs 1 lakh for his release. They then took Glanson to Kelarai and led a murderous assault on him.
 
 Police said all the accused have a criminal background. They have recovered Glanson’s cellphone and his motorcycle that the gang had fled with. Two two-wheelers used in the crime have also been recovered from them.
 
 Two cellphone thieves held
 
 The city police on Tuesday arrested a cellphone thief and recovered five gadgets worth Rs 39,000. They also arrested the owner of a cellphone shop who bought the stolen phones.
 
 Police have identified the accused as Mohammed Irfan, 21, a resident of Kasaba Bengre, and shop owner Samshuddin, 32, a resident of Pandeshwar.
 
 According to police, Irfan and a minor, robbed cellphone users at Milagres, Hampankatte, Falnir, Dongarakeri and Kankanady. In all the five thefts, the duo rode on two-wheelers and snatched the gadgets from the owners while they were engaged in phone conversations on the roadside.
 
 The duo then sold the cellphones to Samshuddin who runs a cellphone outlet near Central Market here. According to police, Samshuddin used to buy the phones from the duo at a lower price, reasoning that they had been stolen. However, he sold them at a much higher price.
 
 Both the operations were led by inspector Maruti G Nayak and team from Mangaluru East police station.
 
 Two  
 
 Police personnel of central sub-division of Mangaluru city police recently nabbed two vehicle lifters. The accused, Praveen Monteiro, 22 of Kulur-Panjimogaru, currently residing at III Block in Katipalla, and Bipin aka Vijay, 20 of Padavinangady, currently residing at Bolugudde, had allegedly stolen a motorcycle parked near Light House Hill Road on March 29. 
 
 Acting on a tip-off, police arrested Praveen near New Chitra Furniture Studios while he was riding a motorcycle without a number plate. Based on his information, police nabbed Bipin.
 
 
