CHENNAI: In addition to the Amma Maaligai office in  , all 15 zonal offices will soon get vending machines dispensing sanitary napkins along with incinerators for sanitary waste, civic body officials said.

 The Amma Maaligai building that stands behind Ripon Building and houses various departments of the corporation already has installed   vending machines in some women’s toilets with almost all of them rendered useless due to lack of maintenance.
 
 In the latest   meeting held last week, approval was given for the installation of 17 such machines in offices along with incinerators.
 
 “One   and incinerator will be put in each of the zonal offices and two more in Amma Maaligai toilets. This will be done at a cost of Rs 9.77 lakh,” said a senior official in the civic body.
 
 Users can get a napkin by inserting a Rs 5 coin and have to dispose of the used napkin in the incinerator.
 
 According to senior officials in the corporation, the civic body is waiting on the approval from the state government for segregated collection and separate handling of sanitary waste generated from homes.
 
 “Sanitary waste should ideally be treated as biomedical waste as it involves waste blood from a human body but we still have no guidelines on how to treat or handle such waste. The TN Pollution Control Board that deals with the generation, handling, storage and disposal of biomedical waste generated in the state should have guidelines for dealing with sanitary waste as well,” said another corporation official. “The measure to install incinerators at our buildings for handling sanitary waste generated in our premises is one step by the corporation to tackle sanitary waste ourselves,” the official added.
 
 As per the Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016, “sanitary waste” means waste comprising used diapers, sanitary towels or napkins, tampons, condoms, incontinence sheets and any other similar waste. Sanitary waste should be wrapped securely and placed the same in the bin meant for non-biodegradable waste.
 
 “This means filling the landfills with potentially hazardous waste,” the official noted.
 
 
