GHAZIABAD: The   ( ) has recommended that GMC impose penalties on several building material suppliers for violating air pollution prevention norms. Penalties of Rs 50,000 each have been recommended for eight building material suppliers in a list sent to the municipal corporation on January 8 in accordance with directions issued by the   (NGT).

 The board also recommended penalties of Rs 5 lakh each to be imposed on two real estate development projects in Vasundhara as per NGT norms. The UP Housing & Development Board has been asked to impose the penalties on these projects.
 
 The total quantum of penalties due from all 10 violators is Rs 14 lakh.
 
 UPPCB regional officer Ashok Tiwari told TOI, “The list was compiled after conducting massive spot inspections throughout the district. It was found that the major source of air pollution in Ghaziabad pertains to construction activities. Major industries in the district have also been directed to undertake regular sprinkling of roads and open areas around their premises at their own expenses. We have subsequently identified around half-a-dozen other construction sites. Their penalties will be to the tune of Rs 6 lakh. This list will also be sent for necessary action.”
 
 Ghaziabad had recently been placed at the top in the list of most polluted cities in the country, owing to poor air quality index. GMC officials said the civic body is gearing up to tackle construction-related air pollution.
 
 “We have formed teams of officials. A plan of action is being chalked out. The GMC will extract penalties from violators in accordance with the pollution   recommendations,” municipal commissioner Chandra Prakash Singh told TOI.
 
 The penalties have been issued upon directions issued by NGT in December 2015 in the air pollution case of   versus Union of India & Others. On January 8, district magistrate   also issued an order empowering the city magistrate to impose penalties on air quality norms violators upon the recommendations of the pollution control board or the housing & development board.
 
 
