 is just around the corner and lovebirds across the city are trying to do something special for their loved ones. And chocolates, cakes and sweet treats continue to rank among the most desirable gifts on V-Day. And if you are looking to take your special someone on a dessert date, we have you covered with our pick of some of the most unique   available in the city. Cold, creamy or completely over the top – there’s something for everyone. And in case you’re single this year, worry not, with desserts like these, you won’t need another  .

  
  
 
 
 
 You’ll find one of the freakiest shakes in town on  . This power freakshake made with chocolate buttercream, hazelnuts, almonds and then crowned with donuts, whipped cream, chocolate sauce and biscuits, will leave you both in sugary heaven. And thanks to its size, you’ll both be spending some quality time together while you finish this freak shake.
 
  
  
 
 
 Tender coconut ice cream topped with jelly, nuts, berries, grated tender/dry coconut and more, served in coconut shells – this one is not to be missed if your partner loves coconut. Available in various combinations at a dessert parlour in  , you might want to try them all. 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Offering an unusual take on waffles, this dessert parlour on MG Road presents waffles on a stick. Doused in chocolate syrup and dotted with gems, rainbow sprinkles and a choice of other toppings, this is a great substitute to the lollipop. 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 If you are in the mood to experiment, a dessert parlour in Viman Nagar offers what they call pizza ice cream. It features a cake base topped with layers of ice cream, jelly, sauces and cheese too, this one is available as a whole pizza or by the slice. 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Looking for something to last through a long date? Try the red velvet smoothie pitcher available at a cafe in  . Served in a 1.5 litre pitcher, this one comes loaded with pieces of red velvet cake and a generous topping of strawberries. And if strawberries are not your thing, you could also choose from other options like their cold coffee pitcher. 
 
  
  
 
 
 — Moumita.Chakraborty@timesgroup.com
 
