Just like the   controversy that rocked Hollywood and led to the #MeToo campaign, model-turned-actor and social media sensation,   is all set to kick up a storm and start a movement of her own, right here in Tollywood. In what can be called her own version of #TimesUp, Sri has been shouting from the (virtual) rooftops and telling anyone who cares to listen, that “No, Telugu girls in showbiz will no longer put up with sexual harassment.”
“This is not my fight alone. Today, any girl who comes to the (film) industry looking for work is openly asked to sleep with the producer, director. That’s why you don’t see so many Telugu girls getting opportunities.This ugly practice must be eradicated completely from this industry. And I will not stop until the word ‘casting couch’ is completely removed. I want to tell these producers that Film Nagar is not a red light area where you can start a prostitution ring. Actresses must be treated with respect,” says a furious Sri Reddy, lashing out at Tollywood’s “leading producers” whom she accuses of being involved in a casting couch racket. The actress, who has worked in films like   2, Zindagi, and Nenu Nanna Abaddam, went on to tell us that she has been at the receiving end many a time. “The first time I encountered this was when I went to Chennai for a shoot. A leading producer, who I trusted a lot, sent me with his friend. Since he was this producer’s friend, I felt safe to travel with him. However, at night, he got drunk and began saying inappropriate things. He told me that he will introduce me to top producers and directors, and added that he always liked me a lot. He then started misbehaving with me. Even though I managed to wriggle away and locked myself in my room, he wouldn’t stop banging the door. That night was a miserable one, and I didn’t sleep a wink. I was so scared I couldn’t even reach out for help,” the actress recalls, adding that this incident was just one of the many nasty encounters she’s had. 
 Letting us in on the modus operandi, Sri Reddy, says, “Commitment, compromise and adjustment are the three code words they use to demand sex for work. From morning till evening, these are the only three words that I hear. As such, only North Indian women are given opportunities here, while Telugu girls are body shamed and dismissed as being too dark or too fat. With a scarcity of opportunities, many of the girls 
 are desperate. So they are exploited by filmmakers.”
 Many of Sri’s detractors have rubbished her comments as a publicity-seeking stunt, and some have even said that there is a political undertone to her statements, given her support for Telangana CM  . Dismissing any such notions, she says, “How can you say that this is a publicity stunt? For a girl nothing is more precious than her maanam (modesty). I have come here out in the open to tell you all that I have myself been a victim of this ugly practice.”
 “I’m trying to help others. If you don’t believe me, then why don’t you go to Film Nagar and see for yourselves? Casting couch is not a myth, it’s very much a reality,” aads Sri. 
 However, the actress admits that she’s had trouble convincing other victims to come forward and join her fight, and expressed her disappointment about it. “Unfortunately, the situation today is such that when I called up some of the victims, who I know have faced this issue, and asked them to come out in public about their ordeal, they tell me ‘Sri, if we speak up, people will think we have also been sexually exploited, like you. We can’t deal with that humiliation’. If this is the mentality of the victims, imagine how much it will embolden the perpetrators,” she says.
 While she refuses to reveal any names yet, she says top actors are equally responsible for the plight of Telugu women in the film industry. “Why doesn’t   speak up for Telugu women? Why doesn’t he say that he will only act with Telugu girls and give them a chance to flourish? I’m a big fan of his, and I would urge him to speak up. Today, the heroes are the reason Telugu film industry is languishing behind. They are the ones who dictate terms on the set with their demands. They choose their heroines, villains, and the script. Directors are reduced to rubber stamps thanks to these arrogant heroes,” she alleges. 
 Despite struggling to garner support from other victims, Sri Reddy vows to keep her fight going and promises to instill fear in the minds of the bigwigs involved in the alleged racket. “Today, these top producers are sitting in their Film Nagar mansions and feel that they cannot be touched. They think a woman like me cannot do anything to them. However, I will take this matter up with CM KCR if required and will not stop until Telugu girls get justice, and are allowed to work with dignity again,” she says.
 
