GUWAHATI: The Union finance ministry has cleared external funding for the proposed   connecting   to  . 

 "The screening committee of the department of economic affairs of the Union finance ministry had cleared it in February this year," CEO of the Guwahati Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) M Angamuthu said. The project outlay is estimated at Rs 1,890 crore, of which the BRICS New Development Bank (NDB) will provide Rs 1,512 crore. "The state government will do the rest. Till now, a fund of Rs 250 crore has been provided by the state government for preparation of DPR (Detailed Project Report) and preliminary costs like land acquisition and rehabilitation, among others," Angamuthu added. 
 
 The proposed bridge will serve as a link between North Guwahati and the city, in a big relief for commuters. It will also help plan the growth of Guwahati Metropolitan Area and expansion of the city to the  .
 
 The GMDA has engaged SMEC consultant group, a subsidiary of Singapore government, for preparation of the feasibility study and the DPR. The feasibility report is completed and the DPR is near completion.
 
 The total length of bridge on the river is 1.6 km measured from the south bank to the north bank. Out of this, 1.24 km will be designed as a multi-span extradosed bridge with individual span length of 200 metre between consecutive pylons. "The extradosed bridge has been considered because of the superior technology, which brings down the high number of foundations in the river over the conventional bridge design, good aesthetic view and less construction time," a statement issued by the GMDA said.
 
 The project has already received clearance from   (IWAI). The Environmental Impact Analysis is proceeding as per the Terms of Reference received from State Environmental Impact Assessment Authority, Assam. The Kamrup district authorities have already assessed the necessary land required for the project.
 
 Angamuthu said that the project will be executed through a Special Purpose Vehicle under Guwahati Development Department Advertising for recruitment of experienced Project Management Unit on process. The bridge construction period will be four years for which Engineering, Procurement and Construction mode of global tender will be invited. 
 
 
