CHANDIGARH: A person was killed and seven other injured when a truck hit a car in Sector 38 on the intervening night of Friday and Saturday. Two of the injured have been admitted to PGI in critical conditions. After hitting the car, the truck fled from the spot. Sector 39 police have registered a case against an unknown person and have started probe. No arrests have been made so far.

 Rajdeep Singh, SHO of Sector 39 police, said the deceased has been identified as Manoj and the injured were Balbir, Vinod,  ,   Sharma, Ram Avtar, Rambran and Vikas Kumar.
 
 Seven natives of Madhya Pardesh were returning from   temple,   in a Ertiga car, when a speeding truck hit their car near the lightpoint of Sector 38/38 (west) around 1.30am on Friday night. A passer-by informed the police about the accident, after which the police control room (PCR) reached the spot. After hard work of one-and-a-half hour, police and fire brigade team were jointly able to rescue Manoj from the damaged car and took him to PGI, where doctors declared him brought dead. 
 
 Other injured were sent to three government hospitals of the city. The conditions of Vinod and Rajinder were critical. Doctors referred them to PGI and they are still under treatment. Three person Vikas, Rambran and Rajesh were discharged after treatment and two other injured are under treatment at GMCH-32 and GMSH-16, police said.
 
 Based on the complaint of Rajesh, who was driving the car, police have registered a case against an unknown truck driver and started probe. Police are scrutinising CCTV footage of the route of the accident to get clues about the truck driver.
 
 FATALITIES THIS MONTH
 
 March 12 | Sagar, 26-year-old Ambala resident, was killed while crossing the road at Industrial Area, Phase I late at night. Police said a speeding car fled from the spot after hitting him
 
 March 9 | A 28-year-old call centre employee was killed and a car driver sustained injuries after a Range Rover hit their car on the road dividing sectors 48 and 49
 
 March 5 | Dwarika Parshad, a 26-year-old carpenter was killed after a car hit him while he was crossing the road near Sector 20
 
 March 4 | Sunny, 24, died in PGI after a biker rammed into his motorcycle near a dumping ground and fled from the spot
 
 March 3 | Randhir Singh, a 34-year-old resident of Kalka, was run over by a truck at the Transport Chowk in Sector 26
 
 March 2 |  , 27-year-old resident of Sector 29, died near the Centra lightpoint after his scooter slipped
 
 March 2 | Ram Kishore, a vegetable-seller, was killed in a road accident as a car driver fled after hitting his auto near the Sector 42 lake
 
 March 2 | Dhan Bahadur, a resident of Sector 43, died while he was trying to cross the road. A speeding car fled after hitting him near the ITBP campus
 
 
