Vadodara: On Aprl 16 morning, Alpesh left his house in his Honda City car and then called up Hina at 12 noon and asked her to be ready. When Hina asked her as to where they were going, Alpesh told her not to ask any questions. Alpesh returned home at around 12.15pm and was visibly tense. He left his house with Hina and went on the Halol highway. They had ‘lassi’ at a restaurant and then he drove towards Jambughoda.

 Hina told the police that Alpesh parked the car on the side of the road and tilted the driver’s seat to sleep. After a few minutes, he suddenly got up and started driving again telling her that they should go to see their children. Alpesh took Hina to her parent’s house in the city where they had coffee. At this time, Alpesh showed Hina a WhatsApp chat group ‘Alwida (bye)’ that he had formed. Alpesh had added builders as well as Gaurav, Mehul and Tarun, the trio working with him, in the group.
 
 On the chat, Alpesh had written a message stating that he was not getting several payments and only promises were being made to him. It added that he had paid exorbitant amounts as interests but still completed the work of the builders. The message pointed out that he had paid Rs 3.5crore interest for work he had done for Kasata Hometech, Ambani Builders and Akshar Group and continued to do so. He also wrote that could no longer pay and was exhausted and and he was going to end his life with Hina. 
 
 Alpesh later went towards Sindhrot and Padra. From Padra, he bought some poisonous substance. At the instance of his wife, he also bought a soft drink so that the poison would not taste bitter. Hina tried to divert his attention by asking him to go any buy some wafers too.
 
 When Alpesh stepped out of the car, Hina mixed two sachets of poison in the soft drink and hid the others. She drank the poison so that she would die and Alpesh could live. But Alpesh returned to the car and found the packets himself even as Hina started feeling weak and had called her brother Himanshu to come and stop Alpesh. Himanshu reached there but even Alpesh had consumed poison by then.
 
 
