GURUGRAM: Over half of the students of classes V and VIII in   in the city are not learning well, while the students of Class III are faring better in comparison. This was revealed by the results of the National Assessment   (NAS) carried out by the National Council of Educational Research and Training ( ) in November last year. While Class III students achieved an average score of 65.15% in mathematics, it was less than 50% for Class V students, and Class VII students scored an average of just 37.76%.

  
  
 
 The survey, designed to provide information about the learning achievement of students in the elementary section in government and government-aided schools, was conducted on students of classes III, V and VIII across the country last year. NCERT released district-wise data of the survey in January, but is yet to release the analysis of the state and national reports. Subjects covered included language (with reading comprehension), mathematics, environmental studies (EVS) and social studies. According to NCERT, NAS is key to knowing how much students are learning in classes.
 
 In Gurugram, 1,071 Class III students across 61 schools were surveyed. In  , only 39.63% of students were able to estimate and measure length and distances. Half of the students (51.41%) could fill a given region leaving no gaps using a tile of given shapes. In Hindi, the kids scored an average of 70.75%.
 
 Only 54.40% of the 1,143 Class V students surveyed in 60 schools could clear the EVS exam. A mere 28.25% of students were able to establish a link between terrain, climate and resources, while around 50% of the students could describe the interdependence among animals, plants and humans. In the language (Hindi) assessment of Class V, 55.50% of students could read and comprehend storybooks, news items, headlines and advertisements. When it came to maths, 49.54% of Class V students cleared the exams. Only 29.13% students were able to apply operations of numbers in daily life situations.
 
 The data showed that Class VII students scored lesser in Maths than the lower classes. Only 37.76% of the 931 Class VIII students across 49 schools could clear the maths exam, while 39.10% scored below 30%.
 
 Students lagged behind in science as well, with only 41.80% able to clear the exam. Over 30% of students scored below 30%, with only 21.05% able to explain and construct modules, and 32.01% able to classify materials and organisms based on characteristics and properties.
 
 NAS is conducted under the Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan. Till last year, NCERT conducted the survey once every three years, but from 2018-19, it will be held across the country every year. The survey will reveal students of which state boards are performing well, NCERT officials said.
 
 Professor Indrani Bhaduri, head of the educational survey division, NCERT, and national coordinator, NAS, said: “NAS is a large-scale assessment exercise designed to determine educational standards across the country. It uses a representative sample of students and must be carefully designed to fit the group being assessed. The survey is not an examination. It checks the general health of the education system, NAS doesn’t test individual students.”
 
 She added, “The findings will be used as inputs in policy and planning, as well as designing pedagogical intervention to improve the students’ learning outcomes at district, state and country levels.”
 
 Bhaduri said Gurugram students didn’t perform well because they were not able to exercise their thinking properly. “This survey focuses on the collective assessment of a child, and many students in the city were not able to correlate to the competency levels. Students need to develop problem solving methods. Obviously, some work needs to be done in teaching the kids well too. A change in the teaching-learning process might be beneficial to students,” she added.
 
 Asked about the reasons behind Gurugram’s dismal performance, district education officer Ram Kumar said, “There are many migratory students in Gurugram. This is the reason kids have not performed well. Most of them join school in between academic sessions, and some leave the school early. There was a shortage of teachers in government schools earlier as well, which has now been fulfilled.”
 
 City schools expressed similar opinions. “In Gurugram, most of the students attending in government schools are from the daily-wager community. They are not able to study properly at home. Many students are from Rajasthan and Bihar. They struggle to understand even Hindi, and so can’t grasp things quickly,” said Suman Sharma, principal, Government School, Sector 4/7.
 
 “The students in government schools are not serious in their studies. Most of them don’t attend school regularly. Moreover, when they go home, they don't study at all,” added Ansu Singhla, principal, Government Senior Secondary School, Bhondsi.
 
 
 
