LUDHIANA: In a good gesture by legendary Bollywood actor,   has applauded the book titled “Raga Ratan-Pearls of Celestial Symphony” of city-based photo artist  . The author of the book, a pictorial renderings of 31 principal ragas of Sri Guru   based on the visuals of Sri Harimandir Sahib, Amritsar, had sent the same to Amitabh Bachchan by post and the actor reciprocated with an appreciation letter.

 In his letter, Amitabh Bachchan writes, “Art is magical! Straight-away the ideas flow in upon the artist, directly from God, making them not only to see distances themes in the mind’s eye, but clothing them in the right forms harmonies and orchestration. Only art penetrates what pride, passion, intelligence and habit erect on all sides- the seeming realities of this world. A beautiful literature springs from the depth and fullness of intellectual and moral life, and from an energy of thought and feeling. This work- the pictorial renderings of 31 principal ragas of Sri Guru Granth Sahib based on visuals of Sri Harimandar Sahib, Amritsar, is a labour of love and enduring in quality and contents, and totally justifies the popular adage, “nothing lives in literature, but that which has in it the vitality of creative art”
 
 He further adds, “Thank you so much. For me, this book is a treasure and a keepsake which has the power to transcend the human follies into the serene spiritual realm.”
 
 While speaking about this noble gesture of Amitabh Bachchan, Tej Partap Singh Sandhu said that he wanted to share his art work in the form of book titled “Raga Ratan” with the legendary Bollywood actor since he has been his fan since childhood. He said that he had sent his book by post and received the reply within a week.
 
 “At first, I could not believe my eyes when I got the letter signed by Mr Amitabh Bachchan,” an elated Sandhu said. He added that Raga Ratan was initially published in Punjabi language and now, it has been published by Punjabi University Patiala in English.
 
 “This book has been translated from Punjabi to English by noted Theologist and Historian Mr Anurag Singh” said the author.
 
 Tej Partap Singh Sandhu has already been honoured by the state languages department by the   Government in 2010, Dr M.S. Randhawa Award and   Award, among other awards.
 
 Sandhu’s previous books include Camera Di Akhh Boldi (on social, road sense and environment issues) Bara Maha (Majh) and Bara Maha (Tukhari).
 
