KOLKATA: Rare books and priceless periodicals, including some from the 16th century, were found at   early this year while clean-up was in progress for an imminent prime ministerial visit. Destined for the dump yard, scrapped and packed in 20 sacks were titles like  , published in 1665, and the first volume of the first edition of 15th century poet Maulana Rumi’s gem Masnavi-e-Rumi.

 Timely intervention by chairman of the “weeding-off committee” of the society, professor Sachindranath Bhattacharya, saved the treasure trove, which is now being classified and restored by research scholars of Calcutta University’s museology department at Metcalfe Hall.
 
 “The earliest book found is Philosophical Transactions, published in 1665. Besides, the first volume of the first edition of Maulana Rumi’s Masnavi-e-Rumi, a 15-volume work published in Lahore, was also found,” said Bhattacharya.
 
  
  
 There are many such gems like Proceedings of the Royal Society of London, 1877, Minutes of British East India Company at Fort St George, Madras, Report of Zoological Survey of Indian Subcontinent and Fauna of British India, Including Ceylon and Burma. Most of the books are in a sorry state: pages have turned brittle and date of publication and cover page are irretrievable. “There might be older publications, for which we need to study more after the preservation work,” Bhattacharya added.
 
 On the occasion of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s visit sometime late this month or early March, a “weeding-off committee” was set up at Asiatic Society under the chairmanship of professor Sachindranath Bhattacharya, former head of department of Museology at Calcutta University and Board of Trustee member at Indian Museum.
 
 Professor Isha Mohammed, president of Asiatic Society, said: “We stumbled upon the rare books and periodicals. Now, we will preserve and digitise them so that scholars can access them without turning the brittle pages of these rare books.”
 
 Professor  , an eminent zoologist from Calcutta University, who came rushing to see the treasure trove, was in awe. “This shows why the British could rule us for so long. They prioritize knowledge above everything. These documents and this   is testimony to that,” she said, while retrieving a hand-drawn book on Indian fish.
 
 Right now, Bhattacharya and his team have immersed themselves into sorting and restoring the treasure trove. “I am grateful to Asiatic Society president Professor Isha Mohammed and general secretary Professor Satyabrata Chakraborty who readily accepted my proposal for preservation and issued funds,” he said.
 
 However, there is lot to be done before the books and documents can be digitized. The works include disinfection, deacidification, fumigation, consolidation, rebinding and finally digitization. But the doctoral students of museology are more than happy to do this as they would not get such opportunity very frequently, said Bhattacharya.
 
 
