The theatre scene in Mumbai has seen a rise in the number of physical performances of late. Director  , who has directed plays like ‘This Is All There Is When There Is All This’, ‘Moonfool’, ‘Unselfed’ and ‘Agent Provocateur’, which all include not just episodes of physicality, but are entirely movement-based, says, “Theatre director   was once asked about how cinema and TV have killed theatre, to which he responded, “I don’t think it has killed theatre; it has in fact set it free.” What he was trying to say is that it no more has to serve the function of upholding realism and a mirror to the society, and it can finally be free to be what it was always meant to be – a space of imagination. Theatre can be a lot more imaginative, metaphorical and doesn’t have to limit itself to being literal and realistic.” 

 
  
 Talking about what drove him towards physical theatre, he says, “I have nothing against realism, but I find this format a lot more challenging and interesting to make. I got bored of having furniture on stage and people talking and there being a beginning, middle and an end – an introduction, a complication, a solution.” While he agrees that the awareness on the form has seen a gradual increase, there’s still a long way to go. “People are doing it more out of interest than actually exploring the form and it’s catching on more as a fad. But any change is great and welcome; no complaints whatsoever. I have noticed that even the older groups, who are used to working in a straight way, are curious about it. Many are including interesting bits, but it’s still at a nascent stage,” he says. 
 
 He insists that India needs to have more performances centred on physicality, given the history. He elaborates, “India and South Asia’s tradition of theatre has been physical and more performance-based when compared to the West, which has been more of a writing tradition. Considering we’ve had Kathakali, Koodiyattam, Peking Opera and Japanese theatre, which have all focused on the performer, I would imagine a lot more of it.” 
 
 
