BHOPAL/INDORE: There wasn’t much cheer for MP in the   (NIRF) list released by the   on Tuesday. Except for  , most other top campuses of the state slumped down the table — including  ,  , NLIU and IIFM.

 MANIT shot up the ranks from 74th place last year to 55. In overall rankings, IISERBhopal secured 56th rank, up from 98, while School of planning and architecture (SPA) was placed 5th among architecture colleges. That is where the good news ends. Bhopalbased NLIU, which was the seat of relentless turmoil last year, is out of the top 10. IIFM has slipped from 34th tank last year to 41. IIT-Indore was ranked 14th top engineering college in India, one position up from last year’s. 
 
 Director: Good research work helped IISER improve ranking
 
 Indian Institute of Technology-Indore scored 57.95 in the ranking and is placed behind IIT (School of Mines) Dhanbad.
 
 Indian Institute of Management-Indore, too, fell by one notch to 11th rank in top management institutes in India. It scored 60.28 and found itself behind XLRIJamshedpur. DAVV’s department of pharmacy, which was ranked 31in 2017, tumbled to 45th, behind Smt. Kishoritai Bhoyar College of Pharmacy, Kamptee (Maharashtra).
 
 DAVV vice-chancellor N K Dhakad told TOI that the pharmacy department “still tops the list in Madhya Pradesh”. “In the national ranking, the competition gets tough,” he said.
 
 IISER-Bhopal got 48.25 points to secure 56th rank. It scored 61.55 points out of 100 in teaching, learning and resources, 62.83 in graduation outcome parameters and 63.71 in outreach and inclusivity parameter. But it was done in by 26.60 in research and professional practice and a mere 7.86 points in perception.
 
 Director, IISER-Bhopal, Prof Vinod Singh said strengthening research work and excellent infrastructure made it possible for the college to improve its ranking.
 
 “We are working hard to be in top 10 in the next two years,” said Singh, adding that they hope to improve on perception parameter next year. SPA has scored top position in teaching, learning and resources. Head of the department, Prof Sanjeev Singh, credited it to team effort.
 
 “We have excellent students and teaching staff. We came into existence in 2008 and within such a short span of time, this college has secured a place among top 5 institutes in the country,” said Singh. 
 
