ARA: Veer   ( ) at Ara will hold its first ever students’ union election on Sunday.

 Paras Rai, dean, students’ welfare, who has been made the chief election officer, said about 1 lakh students would exercise their franchise to elect their leaders out of 800 candidates. The elections will be held for five key posts – president, vice-president, general secretary, joint secretary and treasurer as well as college representatives.
 
 The election will be held in all the 17 constituent colleges of VKSU spread over four districts – Bhojpur, Buxar, Rohtas and Kaimur – and also in Maharaja Law College and BEd college on the university campus and at the PG departments of the university. One polling booth has been set up per 1,000 voters.
 
 The results will be declared on Monday. The second phase of election will be held on February 27, under which the elected representatives will elect the office-bearers at the university level of the students’ union.
 
 VKSU vice-chancellor   said the university has requested the SPs and the DMs of all four districts to provide adequate number of police personnel for holding free and fair election. “Students’ union election will make it easier for the university administration to address the grievances of the students in a systematic way, as various groups claiming to represent the interests of the students, frequently visit the VC office and at times disrupt the functioning of the university. We will now know whom to talk to in order to solve the problems of the students,” the VC said.
 
 Regular classes and session and availability of books in the college libraries are on top of the agenda of different candidates. Drishti Raj, a candidate for the president post in Jain College, said she would raise the issue of acute faculty crunch in her college, while Priya Kumari, who is contesting for the president post in Mahila College, Ara, said she would make sure that all the necessary books are available in the college library.
 
 Ranjan Kumar, who is contesting for the college representative post, said he would try setting up a gender sensitization committee against sexual harassment in all the colleges for the safety of girl students. Kanhaiya Kumar, who is fighting for the post of president of Maharaja Law College, said his prime agenda would be to get the LLM course started in the college. 
 
 
