SHIMLA: The   high court on Tuesday directed the deputy commissioner of Una to identify areas at Chintpurni Devi which can be used as waiting areas for devotees. 

 The court has asked the DC to identify areas close to the shrine, which gets nearly 4 lakh devotees during Navaratra, and file a reply within two weeks.
 
 The court has also impleaded sub-divisional magistrates of Bharwain, Una, Amb, and Dehra; and executive engineer (PWD), Bharwain, as respondents.
 
 A division bench of Chief Justice (acting) Sanjay Karol and Justice Ajay Mohan Goel passed these orders while hearing a petition taken up suo moto on a letter written by Punjab resident  , who highlighted "discrimination and corruption" created by police officials and priests deployed at the shrine. 
 
 The court said there was a heavy turnout of devotees at the shrine even on weekends. It said the amicus curiae had given suggestions to manage the rush better, but there was no response by the respondents and the state government. 
 
 "From the affidavit filed by the temple officer, who is the deputy commissioner of Una, we notice there is no reference to the major facilities being provided to pilgrims. The affidavit is conspicuously silent with regard to proper place where such huge number of pilgrims can wait, in heat or rain, for their turn to have darshan at the shrine," court observed in the order. 
 
 The court said it was of the view that there must be certain dedicated holding areas where devotees could conveniently and comfortably wait for their turn to pay obeisance. "There are encroachments on the road from Bharwain up to the shrine. It appears that provisions of the Himachal Pradesh Road Side Control Act, 1990, have not been given effect to," it added.
 
 Before passing any orders on the suggestions given by amicus curiae, the court has directed the SDMs of Amb and Dehra to visit the area and ensure all encroachments on the road from Bharwain up to the shrine were removed and provisions of the Act enforced in letter and spirit. "If necessary, superintendent of police of the district should depute adequate force," it said.
 
 
