GURUGRAM: Besides CCTV footage, the   chargesheet has revealed another key witness who has strengthened their case. Several other testimonies provide supplementary proof to CBI’s case. 

 The key witness, who police investigation said was named by   as a friend who had asked him to wait near the ground floor water cooler, denied having spoken to Bholu that morning. 
 
 
  
 
 According to the CBI probe, this friend had already entered the school at 7:33:10, almost a minute before Bholu arrived at the school’s main gate at 7:34:05, contradicting Bholu’s alibi for being on the ground floor during the “relevant time on the day of the incident”.
 
 The friend also revealed that on September 15, he received a call from Bholu on his cousin’s number, telling him that police could visit his house and show him CCTV footage of the fatal morning, before telling him what Bholu had already told police — that he was waiting near the water cooler, and requesting him to stick to the same facts while answering police.” 
 
 However, the friend told CBI he had told police that neither had he met Bholu, nor asked him to wait near the water cooler.
 
 Analysis of CCTV footage revealed Bholu was on the ground floor between 7:35:05 and 7:39:37, during which he had taken a left turn towards the water cooler. 
 
 Around 47 seconds later, he emerged from the washroom and went towards the conference hall. At 7:37:34, he is seen with Prince “walking very closely with the child” towards the reception. 
 
 Seconds later, Prince is seen entering the washroom, followed 20 seconds later by Bholu. CCTV records also show him rushing up the stairs at 7:39:38, giving him exactly 1 minute and 15 seconds inside the washroom with Prince.
 
 In his statement to CBI, Bholu confessed to committing Prince’s murder, also revealing the shop from where he had bought the knife. “He described how he had lured Prince on pretext of taking his help to the washroom”. He also confessed to assaulting Prince “from behind, threw the knife in the toilet and rushed out”.
 
 Bholu also said he only came to know the school was closed after he had written the exam and reached home, and had “felt relaxed police had arrested Ashok” on TV news. 
 
 He also did Internet searches on how to remove fingerprints from a crime scene, but “did not purse it since it advised one to damage his own hand by charring or putting acid”.
 
 CBI officials also made Bholu open his personal e-mail ID to recover his search history. The chargesheet said “the search/access of Internet, before and after the commission of murder... throws light on Bholu’s conduct before the crime, his intention to commit the crime and his conduct after the crime, to escape law”.
 
 
 
