NEW DELHI: There was a security alert around the airport after armed robbers opened fire at a police team when they foiled their bid to snatch an SUV on the flyover near Sanjay T-point. 

 The incident occurred around 5pm on Thursday. A policeman involved in the chase said four of them from   police station were deployed there in a private vehicle to stop people from parking on the flyover. The team spotted a white SUV parked on the flyover. But as they were about to move towards it to tell the driver to move, a white   stopped near it. There were four 20-something men in it. Three of them came out and pointed a pistol at the driver. Seeing that, the policemen came out of their car and challenged the men. The men pushed the policemen aside and got into their car to flee. 
 
 As the car began to move, a policeman ran after it. Someone from inside fired at him. The policemen got into their car started chasing the Swift, which headed towards the domestic terminal. The policemen radioed all nearby units. To shake the police off their tail, the driver of the Swift started driving dangerously. He braked hard, which resulted in the police vehicle crashing into the Swift’s rear. They sped on and took a sharp turn near a Hanuman temple towards Palam. While pulling off this stunt, the Swift hit a motorcycle rider. 
 
  
  
 Police officers said that the men managed to give the policemen the slip. Later, their car was found abandoned on the road with a burst front tyre. It had hit a divider. As the policemen reached the spot, they saw the four men in the distance running away in different directions and disappearing. 
 
 A crime team that arrived later found an empty 7.62mm cartridge with ‘S&B’ engraved on it. Confirming the incident, DCP (southwest)   said the police also found the weapon and have identified one of the perpetrators. 
 
 A case under the Arms Act and IPC sections was registered. The Swift has been impounded and its registration has been found to be from   transport authority, registered three months ago. CCTV footage from the area has been obtained to ascertain the identity of the accused and figured out the exact sequence of event. The SUV driver has also been questioned to find out if the accused were known to him. 
 
 Police suspect the men are part of an interstate gang.
