NOIDA: The construction for the   international airport in   will begin by October this year and the first phase of the project will be operational by 2022,   officials said on Thursday. Though an Yeida survey has revealed no major green bumps on the project, a clearance from the Union environment ministry is still awaited before it goes for a global bid. However, officials said, the project is likely to displace some 1,900 families.

 “The clearance from the Union ministry of environment, forests and climate change is expected within two months. And if all goes well, we will float the global bid in June. It will appear on all major international publications. We will also make it available online on www.etender.up.nic.in. Several leading airport construction companies globally are being considered for this project but the names can’t be revealed at this stage,” Yeida CEO Arun Vir Singh told TOI.
 
 “Our timelines are very ambitious at the moment. We want the deal to be signed by September and the construction to start by October. By 2022, the first phase of the   has to be functional,” he added.
 
 The first phase is expected to have only two runways. The land cost for the same has been estimated at Rs 5,000 crore, while the building budget is Rs 15,000 crore. “As many as 1,905 families will be displaced during the process of land acquisition for the first phase of the Jewar airport project. A rehabilitation plan for these families is being worked out,” said Singh.
 
 At present, YEIDA is engaged in floating a global bid for the construction and development of the airport. The consultancy for the selection and execution of the bidding process is being handled by PriceWaterhouseCoopers (PWC). The technical consultancy for the bid process is being provided by Meinhardt group, the constructors for Changi airport, Singapore.
 
 PWC has projected that the airports in Delhi and Jewar will cater to over 300 million passengers annually by 2050. In fact, in the first phase, the Jewar airport will have two runways and will cater to a passenger count of 80 million when it is likely to get operational, two years before the   reaches its threshold traffic handling capacity, according to PWC says. Hence, all passenger traffic from IGIA will be diverted to the airport at Jewar.
 
 While all initial responsibilities for the erection and development of the Jewar airport at this stage is being executed by YEIDA, in future, a joint ventured company with representation from UP government and the Authority is being mulled. “A joint company will be floated in future for the maintenance and long-term execution of the airport project, though nothing has been finalised as yet,” another official said.
 
 
