Chennai: In old liquor  , a tea tray, worn-out furniture —all regular stuff you find in any home. But these can turn into works of art if you are a little crafty. With information and workshops galore, Chennaiites are discovering the magic of  .

 In this art form, you decorate an object by gluing it with coloured paper cut-outs, followed by  , gold leaf and varnish to create artefacts. It is believed that Marie Antoinette, Madame de Pompadour, Matisse and Picasso were practitioners of the art.
 
 "People do not need expertise in art to learn. It just requires patience and a basic sense of aesthetics," says Aarthi Sivaramakrishnan, who began learning it four years ago on YouTube.
 
 But since the videos mostly featured American and European practitioners speaking about products available there, Aarthi found a woman practitioner in Bengaluru who taught her the tricks.
 
 "We use a central image which is printed, and transferred to the surface of the object we want to decorate. Then we paint around the image to make it look like a seamless work of art," says Aarthi. This is followed up with layers of sealants and varnish. "Though it was traditionally done on wooden surfaces, now many people are doing it on bottles as well as MDF boxes and trays," she adds.
 
 "There are lots of printed tissues and papers available in the market. People are also collaborating with graphic designers to come up with new patterns," says Aarthi, who has been conducting decoupage workshops since December 2017 through her outfit, The Colour Company. "Though traditionally, art workshops are popular among women, I get a good number of men in every batch," she says.
 
 Grace Lavanya, who learned decoupage a long time ago, has recently begun teaching it. "At my third workshop we used two MDF products — a tea tray and a chopping board," says Lavanya, who sells her work online and in neighbourhood shops.
 
 Some of Aarthi’s students have gone on to start their own businesses. Dinesh Kumar, 34, who learned the art two months ago, recently launched Slay’D, a gifting business. "For me, it is a stressbuster," says Kumar, who sells his works through Facebook and Instagram. "I create theme-based decoupage bottles and come up with customised prints," says the freelance health and safety trainer, whose bottles are priced between `800 and `1,500.
 
 Vaishnavi Raghavan, 33, who learned decoupage in January this year, is a stay-at-home mom, now toying with the idea of turning her passion into profession. "I work with old bottles as well as wood, and gift it to friends and family. With the positive response I am getting, I am thinking of selling my work," she says.
 
 
