Despite knowing all the requisites of a healthy lifestyle, we still fail to achieve a disease-free life . An analysis of the data collected by SRL Diagnostics also showed a worrisome trend. Dr B.R Das, Advisor and Mentor - R&D, SRL Diagnostics shared, "We have noticed an alarming level of Vitamin D inadequacy in the country. And this finding is in sync with the findings of other medical research studies conducted in the country earlier. Of the total samples analysed, 79.12 per cent had either Vitamin D deficiency or insufficiency. While women were more commonly Vitamin D insufficient, men showed more cases of Vitamin D deficiency. Similarly, an analysis of Kidney Function Test results showed that 10.40 per cent had abnormal values of Blood Urea Nitrogen (BUN), Serum Creatinine or both. The results also showed that there was a rapid rise in abnormal KFT values in the ages above 60 years." 

 The analysis of Lipid Profile results meanwhile indicated that 34 per cent of the population had abnormal values for one or more of the four parameters - HDL, Triglycerides, LDL and Total Cholesterol. While men have more deranged LDL, HDL and Triglyceride levels than women, on an average the total Cholesterol level was found to be higher in women. Another worrisome trend came from the analysis of glucose tests, which are conducted to establish the inability to process sugars correctly – precursor to diabetes. In pan India analysis on samples received mainly from urban areas, 19.22 per cent of individuals were observed to be either pre-diabetic or diabetic, with men accounting for 20.80 per cent and women, 17.36 per cent. 
 
 On the occasion of  , we have mentioned a few essential   that can help you  . These are basic yet effective tips that you must follow to lead a healthy lifestyle. 
 
 
 : Stay hydrated. Drink minimum 2 litres of water every day. Water helps in energizing your body and helps you get going throughout the day.
 
 
 : Indulge in your food - enjoy and eat! Avoid eating junk, fried and processed food as these foods do more harm than good. Eat healthy and stay healthy.
 
 
  Work out for at least 45 minutes 3 days a week. It is as important as any other essential activity of your life.
 
 
 : Cut out all your distractions before bedtime. This will help you to get a sound sleep. 
 
 
  Say no to social media post 10 pm. Also, avoid drinking or smoking.
 
 
  Meditation is the key to manage stress and depression. Whenever you feel stressed out, try to indulge in your favourite activities that can help you divert and relax your mind.
 
 
 STOP going to work without the most important meal of the day. Breakfast is essential as it keeps you energetic throughout the day.
 
 
 Get them done once every 3 or 4 months. If you experience any sign or symptom of any disease, consult your doctor as soon as possible.
 
 
 Wash your hands after using toilet and before eating food. Sanitize, take a bath, wear clean clothes and eat clean food. 
 
 
  Avoid sedentary lifestyle. Go for a short walk or stand up once for every 2 hours of sitting.
 
 
  
  
 
 
