VADODARA: The   (SOG) arrested a family of three that used to   to   in the city.

 The accused used to buy   from Uttar Pradesh and sell them for profit to the customers. SOG sleuths said that the accused had been indulging in the business for last few years. 
 
 Fortwin is used for reducing pain ahead of surgery and it is available only on prescription. But the injection that is available for nearly Rs six per piece is sold illegally for a high price. 
 
 “We had received a tip-off about this family’s drug business following which we followed their movements. We got information that Naina Pathak would be arriving by train in the city on Saturday with the injections and kept a watch near the railway station,” said H M Chauhan, police sub-inspector, SOG. The cops had learnt that Pathak’s son Samarth and his wife Mpnali would be arriving to pick her up.
 
 The police arrested the three and questioned them about their business. “We learnt that the entire family used to deal in drug injections. Naina used to visit Farooqabad in UP and buy Fortwin injections from a lady called Maami. She used to buy the injections for Rs 70 to Rs 75 and then sell it to customers here for Rs 100 to Rs 150,” Chauhan told TOI. Naina used to sell the injections from their home in Atladara area but later her son and daughter-in-law started delivering the injections to their customers near a canal in Atladara.
 
 The police said that Samarth too was a drug addict so he was in regular touch with other addicts making it easy for him to find customers. Sources in the police claimed that Naina’s husband, who died some years ago, used to sell liquor as well. Samarth told the cops that he is an engineer and does visa consultancy business for a living. The police will now try to track down the lady who used to sell these injections to Naina.
 
 The police said that the accused carried drug trade through a fixed network. "Their set of customers was fixed and the accused sold the drugs to only those who came through some common reference," Chauhan said. 
 
 
