TRICHY: As the recent rain recharged the groundwater table in the delta districts, farmers have exuded confidence that the monsoon this year will be sufficient for them to start kuruvai cultivation. Anticipating a good yield, many farmers in Thanjavur and Trichy districts have already begun kuruvai paddy cultivation, irrigating land using pump sets.

 
  officials in Thanjavur district said that the recent rain would be good for the standing kuruvai crops and cotton farming in Thanjavur district. They have grown crops over 37,500 acres of land after groundwater table was recharged in many parts, they said.
 
 “We have been receiving moderate to heavy rains for more than two weeks in delta district. The recent phenomenon is unseasonal, there is about 65 per cent deficit in the rain compared to the usual rainfall between January and May. However, the recent rains could rechargegroundwater to some extent,” said  , joint director of agriculture department, Thanjavur district.
 
 This year, farmers have used pump sets for irrigation and took up paddy summer crop cultivation over 35,000 acre of lands. Going a step further, they have completed harvesting over 12,000 acres of land, with the remaining crops, expected to be matured in a week, set for harvest soon, he s As for Trichy, nurseries were built in Lalgudi for kuruvai cultivation after the recent rains. Agriculture officials said the farmers have just begun the paddy cultivation and they are expected to use around 2,000 acres of land for the same this season.
 
 “Many in Lalgudi have started kuruvai cultivation as the recent rains have raised the groundwater level in that block. We have commenced the distribution of a new variety of paddy seed CoR 51. As the variety provides the expected yield, we request all the farmers to sow the recommended seed as the variety is known for pest resistance. The agriculture department distributes paddy seed on 50 per cent subsidy,” said a senior official from agriculture department.
 
 As the rain brought immense hope, farmers in the rain-fed blocks such as Manapparai, Marungapuri, Thuraiyur, Musiri, T Pettai and Pullambadi have ploughed the field, aerating the land before seeds are sown.
 
 The government is providing a subsidy to farmers under MSDLA scheme (Mission on  ) in a bid to encourage the farmers. The scheme would cover around 12,500 acres in five clusters, such as Marungapuri, Vaiyampatti, Thottiyam, Thuraiyur and   in the district which were all rain-fed areas without access to water from   or Kollidam rivers, officials said.
 
 
