The tax department may end up being a speed bump for the Indian  , which like its counterparts across the world has marched to multiple records in the past year.

 Brokerages including Kotak Securities say the Modi government may make it harder for investors to claim exemptions on capital gains from equity investments by implementing   (Long term capital gains tax) when the   is announced on February 1. The implementation of demonetisation and GST have hurt demand and revenue, forcing the government to borrow more.
 
 “The government has to find avenues for generating additional revenue to bridge the fiscal deficit,” Shefali Goradia, partner at Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu India LLP, said in an interview in Mumbai. “Tweaking the long-term capital gain break is a low hanging fruit.”
 
 Even so, the government may shy away from doing so -- any change may spook individual investors, who’ve flocked to   since Modi swept into power in 2014. The BSE   soared 28 per cent last year as domestic funds bought a record $19 billion of shares -- more than double the inflow from overseas. The note ban accelerated the shift to financial assets, taking the sheen off gold and property.
 
 Assets with money managers reached a record Rs 23 lakh crore in December, with equity plans making up 38 per cent of the pie, data from the Association of Mutual Funds in India show.
 
 “Long-term capital gains tax break has led to better participation in equity markets,” said Nilesh Shah, Chief Executive Officer at Kotak Mahindra Asset Management Co., which has $19 billion in stocks and bonds. “And it is not that this participation comes for free. Investors pay a securities transaction tax.”
 
 
 
 
 Skeptics point out that seemingly every   brings talk of the return of the levy, which was replaced by a transaction cost (  or Securities Transaction Tax) -- applicable when stocks are bought and sold -- in 2004. A remark in December 2016 by Modi that people who profit from equities should pay more taxes unsettled investors, prompting Finance Minister   to clarify then that the government had no such plans. Finance Ministry spokesman D.S. Malik declined to comment.
 
 “The debate starts before the event each time and everyone gets sensitized to it,” Hiren Ved, chief investment officer at Mumbai-based Alchemy Investment Management Ltd., told Bloomberg Quint. The tax is “low-probability event” as the government may not want to “disturb the apple cart” given its on-going asset-sale program, he said.
 
 Kotak Securities says the government may remove the tax break on stock investments held for more than one year or raise the holding period to claim long-term tax exemption to three years from one. The STT, which brought in about Rs 8,000 crore last fiscal, is just one-tenth of what LTCG tax can potentially earn, Deloitte’s Goradia said. Incremental collections could rise by $5 billion to $10 billion per year if the exemption is taken away, according to CLSA India Pvt.
 
 The government may chose to extend the holding period, while maintaining the rate at zero, said Sampath Reddy, chief investment officer at Bajaj Allianz Life Insurance Co.
 
 “This may not hurt sentiment in a buoyant market and we believe investors can easily digest this,” he said.
 
