BENGALURU:   ,  , who has been overseeing BJP organizational activities in Maharashtra, in an interaction with TOI, was optimistic of the party securing a majority in Karnataka and forming the next government in the state.

 
 
 
 The BJP’s main strength is our PM Narendra Modi, the chief ministerial candidate B S Yeddyurappa and the antiincumbency wave against  .
 
 If we analyze the last election results, despite having three chief ministers the BJP could have easily secured a comfortable majority if we had stayed united. The three-way split with the emergence of BSR Congress and the KJP under Yeddyurappa proved fatal. Our estimates had put us at 90 to 95 seats in 2013, but with a united front we could have easily secured 115 to 120 seats.
 
 
 
 No. While the Mahadayi issue has favoured the BJP — we have put our best efforts into it and the Congress are the culprits — the Lingayats have all consolidated and rallied behind the BJP. I shall in fact thank chief minister Siddaramaiah and the Congress party after these elections. I would say Congress leader Shivaraj Patil also needs to be thanked
 
 
 
 
 There is no comparison between Modiji and Siddaramaiah. The PM is in his own league and cannot be compared to the Congress chief minister. On paper, due to the ineptness of AICC president Rahul Gandhi, it may look like that. But at present there is no leader in the Indian polity to be compared to Modi. 
 
 He (Patil) also put in efforts on the same issue in Maharashtra and the Congress lost in that state.
 
 
 
 
 That is definitely not going to happen. I will not discount the JD(S) getting no seats, but there is a wave in the country favouring the BJP. The previous elections, including those in the northeastern states, have given us a mandate. Besides, the common phenomenon between the Congress and the JD(S) is caste, money and family. In our case it is lagan (effort), prathiba (caliber) and mehanat (hard work). Our leaders, including Modi and President   are products of these three factors. Ninety-nine per cent of our leadership does not have a caste factor, no political lineage and no money power.
 
 
 
 
 Our focus will be a mixture of local and state level issues. We are concentrating on issues related to every constituency and limited to that segment. While in Belagavi the issues are related to the potato crop, in Davanagere it is related to cotton and maize crops. Elsewhere, in Hassan it is related to Hemavathi and in Malnad region it is the arecanut growers. So we have asked our leaders to raise these local issues in the segments concerned. State-level issues will include Congress goonda raj and corruption within this government.
 
 
