The author of   discovered the reason for his trickling income was that due to fraud.

 The famous author said he's noticed his income had dwindled for several years. He had blamed multiple factors, including piracy and problems at his publisher, for the decline in earnings. However, it was found that an accountant at his agency has been embezzling money from the company.
 
 Darin Webb was an accountant at Donadio and Olson in New York. On 15th May 2018 he was charged with “defraud[ing] a literary agency during his engagement as that agency’s bookkeeper, by converting funds that belonged to the agency and its clients to his own use”. According to the charge, he admitted in video interviews that he prepared monthly financial reports and sent emails to the agency’s clients “that contained false and fraudulent representations, in order to accomplish the theft and evade detection”. 
 
 The firm represents several known authors, including the estates of Mario Puzo and Studs Terkel. Chuck   opened up about the incident in a post on his website. He explained his income had been dwindling and, "More recently, the trickle of my income stopped." 
 
 There were always reasons as to why the money was delayed and the thought of theft crossed his mind; he was reluctant to consider it as he'd worked with "the same team of people since 1994".
 
 "To suspect anyone was stealing, I had to be crazy." 
 
 He admitted the "chain of events leaves me close to broke," but he ended the post positively, listing all the ways he's been helped in this situation and ending with, "On the plus side I'm not crazy. Nor am I alone."
 
 Darin Webb has been arrested and is currently in custody. FBI assistant director William F. Sweeney Jr said in a statement: “As alleged, Darin Webb was responsible for the financial welfare of the agency whose accounts he oversaw, but instead of upholding his fiscal responsibilities, he spent his time swindling more than $3.4m from his victims. Cooking the books rarely pays off in the long run, as the defendant has learned today.”
 
