BENGALURU: In a move to whip-up   sentiment and pride ahead of assembly elections, chief minister   strongly defended his government’s decision to adopt a separate flag for the state and insists that it is not inconsistent with India.
 
 “My identity as a proud   is not inconsistent with my identity as a proud Indian. Taking pride in Kannada identity doesn’t make Kannadigas any less Indian,” Siddaramaiah wrote in a lengthy Facebook post on Thursday.
 
 aking exception to a section of electronic media for painting his government’s decision to have a separate flag as an anti-Indian stand, Siddaramaiah said: “Whether one likes it or not, the states of India were organized on linguistic basis. Many of the languages and cultures of the states predate Indian identity. So, in   when we speak about primacy of Kannada, argue against imposition of Hindi language or call for adoption of a state flag, we are confident we are contributing to building a strong India. So the nervousness of anchors in Delhi studios about our assertion of identity is therefore misplaced.”
 
 He also used the opportunity to ask why southern states are getting a raw deal in devolution of central taxes and grants from the Centre. “Historically, South has been subsidising the North (sic),” he wrote. “Six southern states contribute more taxes and get less in return. For every one rupee of tax contributed by Uttara Pradesh the state receives Rs 1.79. But Karnataka gets just 47 paise for every rupee of tax it contributes. While I recognize the need for correcting regional imbalances, where is the reward for development?”
 
 He also batted for a greater say for states in formulating the country’s economic policy. “The economic policy that affects India’s commerce also affects the states and yet states have no say in making economic policies,” Siddaramaiah wrote. “The Centre’s trade policy has been encouraging agricultural imports and discouraging agricultural exports. This is affecting the profitability of our farmers who have a marketable surplus. So, on the lines of  , we need a standing mechanism for discussing Centre’s trade policy and agrarian issues.”
 
