PUNE: The alignment of the Metro route from the Civil Court to Ramwadi would be changed.

 The Metro will run via RTO-Raja Bahadur Mill Road-Pune station route instead of the earlier proposed route via   and Pune railway station’s main entrance gate, a   official said on Thursday.
 
 The MahaMetro authorities claimed the route alignment had been changed on request by the railway administration. The latter stated that it wished to utilize the space at the main entrance of the station and the alignment of Metro line would lead to further chaos. Instead of the main entrance, the railway administration proposed realignment from the Raja Bahadur Mill Road entrance.
 
 “The proposal was discussed by the authorities of MahaMetro and railways. It was amicably decided to realign the Metro route. The Metro will have a connection with railway station at the Raja Bahadur Mill Road entrance. This will assist commuters of railways and Metro to switch services,” another MahaMetro official said.
 
 
  
 
 According to the plan, the Metro will start from Civil Court and travel up to   junction. It will cross the railway line and hit the Old Pune-Mumbai Highway near Sangam bridge.
 
 The MahaMetro plans to construct a bridge on the river parallel to the existing Sangam bridge to cross the river and further travel towards Pune station. The official said the length of the route would remain almost the same even after the change in alignment. The entire route would be elevated up to Ramwadi.
 
 The railways and MahaMetro have signed a memorandum of understanding to ensure coordination while implementing the Metro project. Similar joint efforts are planned at   for smooth interchanging of services among Metro, railways, MSRTC and PMPML.
 
 The MahaMetro authorities also claimed that they had completed all necessary surveys of the Civil Court to Ramwadi route. The tenders of the route are likely to be floated next month.
 
 Earlier this month, MahaMetro started constructing the first station at Sant Tukaramnagar on Pimpri-Swargate route. The approximate cost of constructing the station is Rs50 crore. Its construction work is expected to be over by December 2019.
 
  The pedestrians will be able to use the FOB freely to cross the Pune-Mumbai highway. The entry into the Metro station will be restricted to people having Metro tickets.
 
 MahaMetro is constructing the 16.589km-long Pimpri-Swargate Metro route for connecting twin cities of Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad. Of it, 11.57km stretch would be elevated and the rest would be underground. Around 8km-long elevated stretch from Pimpri to Harris bridge (Dapodi) would be in the   limits.
 
 
