BHOPAL: On the occasion of World Bicyle Day on Sunday,   group began their ride at 4.30 am. The two-hour event, which ended at  , saw a good number of cycling enthusiasts— who seem to have discovered their passion beyond fitness.

 
 This new simple, reliable, clean and environmentallyfit sustainable means of transportation — the bicycle — has cut across the professional barriers and brought toghether top government officials, professionals from various fields and businessmen.
 
 “Many of us are out to become   or non-competitive, time-limited long-distance cyclists. Some are even braving to become super randonneur, a title earned by any rider, who completes a series of brevets (200, 300, 400, and 600 km) in the same year,” said some members of Bhopal Randonneurs group.
 
 “A lot has changed over the past year, especially for us cyclists. There are various groups, who meet on a regular basis during their free time to explore new horizons,” said Sundararam Ramchandaran, a businessman.
 
 “Our group forms about 50 active riders. Some are more regular than others, but an inspiration to perform a feat is always encouraging to replicate,” said  , businessman.
 
 They were not far behind on Sunday celebrating the first official UN World Bicycle Day. “The movement has been propelled to a large extent by smart city project on public bike sharing (PBS) in Bhopal,” said Bhopal smart city, CS, Yogesh Khakre.
 
 Last June, Bhopal launched India’s first PBS system that requires zero manpower for giving bicycles for renting. Bicycles can be rented using mobile application, RFID customer cards (can be integrated with existing cards used in public transport), call centre and also via typing mobile number onto the on-board computer. Capital cost of PBS is about Rs 2.95 crore, compared to Rs 350plus crore invested in BRTS and proposed Rs 9,000 crore for metro rail phase I for Bhopal.
 
 Khakre is part of a growing group, who are members of   (AIR)— an all-India organisation of randonneurs. It is recognised by Audax Club Parisien (ACP) for conducting and overseeing all Brevets de Randonneurs Mondiaux (BRMs) and Audax events in India.
 
