CHANDIGARH: Hours before the deadline for filing nominations for   lapses on Wednesday, factionalism and confusion continues to plague the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party ( ) camp. The party enjoying a majority of 20 councillors in the house of 26 is yet to finalise the names of candidates for the three posts — mayor, senior deputy mayor and deputy mayor — for which elections are held every year.

 The party is divided into two groups led by local MP   and Chandigarh BJP chief Sanjay Tandon. For the past couple of weeks, both the groups have been involved in hectic parleys, pushing name of their respective candidate for the coveted post.
 
 Kher is backing former senior deputy mayor Davesh Moudgil, while Tandon is pressing for former mayor Arun Sood. Moudgil also enjoys support of former MP   and senior leader Harmohan Dhawan.
 
 Tandon had last week sought opinion of the councillors about the candidates for all the three posts. If party insiders are to be believed, a substantial number of councillors are not in favour of giving Sood another chance, who held the post in 2016. They are of view that other councillors should be given an opportunity.
 
 Fearing possibility of cross-voting, the party is open to consider other names, if both the factions fail to reach a consensus. In the past there have been instances of cross-voting by party councillors. To avoid such a scenario, the party may go for the senior most councillor — Rajesh Kumar Gupta, considered a neutral candidate. 
 
 According to sources, the party is also contemplating giving a fresh face a shot at the post. “If the party does so,   and Ravi Kant Sharma will be among the top contenders,” said a councillor. 
 
 Talking to TOI over phone from Delhi, MP and Chandigarh in-charge   refused to divulge any detail, saying the final names will be selected on Wednesday morning. “Names will be selected after taking feedback of all the councillors,” Jha said.
 
 Despite repeated attempts, Kher and Tandon were not available for comments.
 
 
 
 
 
 The fate of voting rights of nominated councillors, which were declared invalid by the Punjab and Haryana high court, will be decided by the   on January 5. In the past, votes of the nine nominated councillors were the deciding factors in the mayoral elections. The voting rights were quashed by the HC following which the nominated councillors and Chandigarh administration challenged the orders.
 
 
