NEW DELHI: Did Rio Olympics bronze medallist   lose out on a possible gold medal at the Senior Asian Championships in Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan due to Indian coaching staff’s casual approach?
 
 
 The turn of events during her opening bout against China’s   in the 62kg category suggests so. The delay on part of the women’s freestyle coaches in noticing and challenging an oversight by the referee during the first quarter of the three-minute bout between Sakshi and Xiaojuan led to the Indian losing it despite leading the contest at one stage. Sakshi ended up winning bronze.
 
 In the last few seconds of the first quarter (three minutes) when Sakshi was dominating her opponent 6-0, Xiaojuan went for a ‘piledriver’ where she pinned down Sakshi holding her up in the back to belly position. It immediately earned the Chinese two points as the timer showed end of three minutes.
 
 Surprisingly, Xiaojuan didn’t release Sakshi from her clutches and went for a similar attack. It resulted in the referee awarding another two points to Xiaojuan which reduced the margin to 4-6.
 
 Thereafter, the referee realised that the three-minute time was up and directed the two wrestlers to separate and go to their corners. This led to a 30-second break before the start of the second and final quarter of three minutes.
 
 And this is where the Indian coaching staff failed to bring to the notice of technical jury that the Chinese continued to hold Sakshi despite the regulation time having ended. While it could be argued that the referee was at fault originally, the mistake on part of Indian coaches cannot be ignored.
 
 According to the   (UWW) rules, the coaches have the power to challenge the decision of a referee if a point has been mistakenly awarded to an opposition wrestler. For this rule to apply, the coaches have to bring to the notice of jury the points mistakenly awarded to a wrestler “within five seconds” of the timer showing it. The jury could overturn the decision if the challenge returns successful. The Indian coaches did nothing of that sort.
 
 In the second quarter, Xiaojuan levelled the scoreline at 6-6 and was subsequently declared the winner on technical superiority, leading to Sakshi fighting the repechage round after the Chinese reached the final. In the repechage round, Sakshi overcame the challenge of South Korea’s Jiae Chio before putting across Kazakhstan’s Ayaulym Kassymova.
 
 A   (WFI) official informed that the matter has been taken note of and the coaches will be asked to submit a detailed report in this regard.
 
 
