With   around the corner, it’s the season to celebrate phulkari. Now that handmade/ handwork are fashion buzzwords, the age-old Punjabi stitch is experiencing a resurgence of sorts. And this time round, the motif has gone global – from New York to Paris. Last year, designer   spoke about the resurgence of   at  : “Phulkari is deeply entrenched in the cultural fabric of Punjab, the details that define it make it a versatile craft. From flowy dupattas to saris and modern silhouettes, phulkari can be translated and transposed into the modern wardrobe with great ease. With such a profuse vocabulary, I do believe that phulkari is being discovered on the global platform.”

 The time-consuming embroidery has been a staple on odhnis (traditional heavy dupattas) but is now becoming popular as a décor accent – via cushion covers, table cloths and even wall hangings. Known for its use of colours — the vibrant, the better — the traditional threadwork with gota highlights is anything but subtle. With the fashion landscape peppered with phrases like ‘slow fashion’ and ‘haath ka kaam’, phulkari is finding favour with the stylish set. 
 
 
 For the uninitiated, phulkari is threadwork that uses linear stitches to create intricate flower-like patterns. The finished work is known as bagh (or garden) and worn by women in Punjab during marriages and festivals. Women embroidered on khaddar (coarse cotton) on the wrong side of the fabric using silken threads called pat da dhaga. Usually, it was used by them or their family members, but was never for sale. Now, phulkari is moving away from clothes and is being adapted for sofas, chairs, curtains, etc. 
 Art historian and restorer Alka Pande, who has been working on reviving, restoring and celebrating the craft, says what is needed is to push phulkari out of Punjab for a wider appeal. “We have been promoting it by making it more visible, through exhibitions, displays and marketing. We need to take it beyond Punjab, as has happened with chikankari from Lucknow or kantha from Bengal – because whenever an art form is brought into the contemporary market, that in itself makes it come alive,” she says. A part of the cultural identity of Punjab and punjabiat, Pande acknowledges the need to find commercial viability to make it sustainable. To this end, she has been curating ‘Mela Phulkari’ for the last five years. 
 
 
 Phulkari revivalist Kirandeep Kaur says that the embroidery is an expression of a woman’s being. She says, “If you see the old patterns of baghs you will realise before Partition and the green revolution how close phulkari was to each and every woman of Punjab.” For instance: ‘kaudi bagh’ symbolised fertility and prosperity; ‘chope’ wrapped in its motifs blessings of a grandmother for her granddaughter; darshan dwaar, sainchi, vari da bagh, surajmukhi (all bagh patterns) had a story to tell. “The art of making phulkari is a symbolic representation of the love and blessing of a mother for her daughter. The symbolism still remains even though the baghs aren’t made by the family. Over the last 14 years we have tried to elevate the quality of phulkari being made in Punjab,” she adds. 
 
 But if phulkari revivalist Harinder Singh is to be believed, the struggle to restore and modernise the threadwork has been a challenge. Singh has collected around 250-300 old bagh from various sources to document them for their patterns, fabrics and age. “We have started digitising the old vintage patterns rather than just keeping them recorded on paper or the soft media,” he mentions. Using this technique, his team has created authentic phulkari products that are wearable and fashionable. And what better way to celebrate the spring than some phulkari florals – be it as dupattas or in décor?
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  Phulkari uses linear stitches to create intricate flower-like patterns. The finished work is known as bagh (or garden)
 
  
  Stitching tradition: A shot of a phulkari embroidery in action (above); and various ways to use the work in your home
 
