Will the   bring down taxes? This is probably the most-asked question in the weeks before the Finance Bill is tabled in Parliament. This year, the expectations of a taxpayer-friendly budget are very high, given that five states have assembly elections in 2018 and another three in 2019. We asked experts from the financial services industry to suggest measures they would like to see in the Finance Bill, 2018. Some of these measures will have an impact on revenue collections. But most other steps will only make life easier for taxpayers, investors and consumers without denting the exchequer.

 
 
 
 Under Section 80E, the interest paid on an education loan from a qualified lender can be claimed as a tax deduction. But this benefit is available only for a maximum of eight financial years. “When this deduction was introduced in 2006, a four-year engineering course cost around ₹3-4 lakh and a medical degree cost around ₹5-6 lakh. Today, an engineering course costs ₹8-9 lakh and a medical degree roughly ₹12-14 lakh. An MBA can cost up to ₹25 lakh,” points out Raj Khosla, founder and managing director of Mymoneymantra.com, Khosla says the EMI for a loan of ₹25 lakh for eight years comes to around ₹40,000. The average borrower may have to extend the tenure well beyond eight years to afford the loan. “The tax deduction should be available for the full tenure of the loan,” he says.
 
 
 
 
 Another suggestion relates to the tax benefits on the NPS. Under Sec 80CCD
 
 (1), there is a cap on the tax deduction that self-employed taxpayers can claim on contributions to the NPS. The 2017 Budget had increased this cap from 10% to 20% of gross income, to bring in parity between salaried and self-employed taxpayers. However, for self-employed taxpayers this comes under the overall deduction limit of ₹1.5 lakh under Sec 80CCE. On the other hand, a salaried employee can claim deduction for up to 10% of his income under Sec 80CCD(1) within the overall limit, and a further deduction of employer’s contribution of up to 10% of salary under Sec 80CCD(2), without any limit.
 
 Experts feel the overall limit for selfemployed taxpayers should be raised to match the benefits available to salaried employees. “The budget should raise the limit under Section 80CCE to say ₹5 lakh or 20% of gross income. This will encourage self-employed taxpayers to invest more in NPS,” says chartered accountant Ashish Gupta.
 
 
 
 An RBI report says only a small number of Indians above 65 years of age have saved in private pension plans and a large segment of the total population has not taken any steps to ensure adequate financial coverage during retirement. “One reason for this is the taxability of pension plans. Right now, if an investor does not buy an annuity on maturity, 66% of the corpus is taxed. Even the pension from the annuity is treated as income and taxed accordingly. Both these tax rules should be relaxed to encourage people to invest in pension plans,” says Tarun Chugh, managing director and CEO of Bajaj Allianz Life Insurance.
 
 Also, the tax treatment of the NPS needs to be reviewed. While 60% of the corpus can be withdrawn at the age of 60, only 40% is tax free and the remaining 20% is taxed as income. “The government should review the current provisions for taxing the NPS if it wants people to join the scheme,” says Divya Baweja, partner, Deloitte India.
 
 
 
 
 Equities have given speactacular returns in recent years, but not everyone has the appetite for risk. Many investors still go for small savings schemes and FDs to save under Section 80C. Now that rates have been cut, they are looking for options that promise better returns, relatively lower risk and the same tax advantage. “For conservative or first time investors, the best alternative is hybrid funds. They offer higher returns compared to traditional options and are less volatile than equity oriented funds. Hence, the Sec 80C tax benefit should be extended to this category, with a lock in of three years like ELSS,” says Radhika Gupta, CEO of Edelweiss Mutual Fund.
 
 
 
 
 Term insurance is the best and cheapest form of life insurance but many people think it is a waste of money. “In India, tax benefits often drive financial decisions. A separate limit for term insurance plans is likely to encourage a lot of taxpayers to buy these plans,” says Adhil Shetty, CEO and co-founder of Bankbazaar.com.
 
 
 
 
 The dividend distribution tax (DDT) discourages companies from paying dividends, which dampens investor confidence. The DDT should be removed to improve investor sentiment. “There is also a need to amend Section 14A, Rule 8(d), which seeks dis-allowance of expenses. Inclusion of divided in ‘exempted’ income is misleading and untrue because dividends are already taxed under DDT,” says K. Suresh, president of the Association of National Exchange s Members of India.
 
 
 
 
 The tax laws need to be changed to allow donation and gifting of securities, such as listed stocks and mutual funds, without tax implications. Right now, the process of gifting or donating an amount invested in securities involves liquidating them and transferring the cash amount. The process leads to the investor incurring capital gains tax. “The value of the gift or donation could be calculated as the fair market value of the securities on the date of actual transfer. This would give the donor or gift giver two benefits: exemption from capital gains tax on the securities; and tax-deduction on the amount from their income,” suggests Kunal Bajaj, founder and CEO, Clearfunds.com. He says the change would not only promote the practice of gifting investments, but also allow people to donate to worthy charities without worrying about taxability.
 
 
 
 
 Insurers also want the GST rate on insurance products to be reduced. “Hiking the tax from 15% to 18% has made insurance products costlier. Ideally, pure protection life insurance and health insurance should be considered as “essential” services and completely exempt from tax,” says Ashish Srivastava, managing director and CEO, PNB Metlife India Insurance.
 
 
 
 
 Medical inflation is growing at 18-20% per annum and the healthcare expenses of the average household can easily exceed the medical allowance limit of ₹15,000 per year. “Companies usually cap the medical allowance at the tax free limit of ₹15,000. If this limit is revised upwards, companies will also be encouraged to hike the allowance,” says Sandeep Patel, managing director and CEO, Cigna TTK Health Insurance.
 
 
 
 
 Although it is essential, home insurance is not seen as a priority in India. “The government should make home insurance compulsory and incentivise home buyers by providing income tax benefit for the premium paid towards a policy. This will not only ensure protection against financial loss for customers, but will also aid in deepening insurance penetration in the country,” says K.G. Krishnamoorthy, managing director and CEO, Future Generali India Insurance.
 
 (TEAM ET WEALTH)
 
