SURAT: A 23-year-old   and a  , who had eloped from Vapi and caught at  , were arrested on Wednesday for   of Rs 98 lakh cash on Wednesday. 

 The cash was allegedly stolen from the house of woman’s husband in Valsad. The couple was planning to go to Dubai via Kolkata and Nepal. They had eloped on Sunday, but traced to Mumbai airport after the woman’s mother lodged a missing person’s complaint. 
 
 The Vapi police detained the woman Preksha (23) (name changed) and Salman Shaikh at Vapi police station on Monday and handed her over to her parents after questioning.
 
 On Tuesday, the woman’s husband, who is into transport business in Valsad, lodged a complaint with Valsad city police station against her and Shaikh for stealing Rs 98 lakh cash from his house. She allegedly stole Rs 98 lakh cash and gold jewellery from her house on Tithal Road in connivance with Shaikh. During questioning, the police got to know that they had given the cash to a person named Haji Nathani in Mumbai, who was to transfer the money to Shaikh in Dubai. A police team went to Mumbai and recovered Rs 91 lakh from him.
 
 The husband alleged in his complaint that his wife, who knew Shaikh since her college days in Mumbai, had continued friendship with him even after marriage and planned the theft with him. 
 
 On Sunday, Preksha, who was married to the businessman as per her parents’ wish in November 2017, told her husband that she was going to meet her ailing father in a hospital at Vapi. During the day when husband contacted her, she could not give her exact location. Suspecting something fishy, her husband personally went to Vapi, realizing that she was giving wrong information about her location and later when she stopped answering his phone.
 
 As the woman was untraceable, her mother approached the police in Vapi and lodged the complaint. Meanwhile, the police got some specific leads and she was traced at Mumbai airport from where she was planning to go to Kolkata with Shaikh and from there they were preparing to go to Dubai via Kathmandu, the police investigation revealed.
 
 “We brought her back along with the man with whom she had gone. We also recovered the money from a person in Mumbai,” deputy superintendent of police, Vapi, S B Kumpawat said. 
 
 The woman’s father is in property business, while her husband’s family is into transport business. 
 
 
