PUNE: Residents will be able to enjoy free Wi-Fi service from Friday at 150 spots in the city.

 The   (PMC), in association with   (PSCDCL), will launch the free service. A statement issued by the both said the service would be provided to citizens under the “Pune Wi-Fi’ network. It will ultimately cover 199 locations.
 
 “Currently, we have tested 150 locations. Based on the commitment of the contractor, we can launch the service at these sites on a pilot basis to test the speed, uptime, network and secure feed from the users as well as demographics and the pattern of usage. This would help us in scaling up for the remaining sites,” some PMC and PSCDCL officials told reporters on Thursday.
 
 
  
 
 The statement claimed that the service was being provided with no time restriction. It can be accessed both from smartphones as well as laptops. People within the range of the network will be able to tap free Wi-Fi following a simple log-in process by entering the OTP sent to their cellphones. The users can get more details about the locations on www.pmc.gov.in/en/wi-fi.
 
 Residents welcomed the move.  , a software professional, said, “The free Wi-Fi zones would be a big leap towards making Pune a smart city. The youngsters of the city will simply love it. But the officials should ensure that the free service has no security issues.”
 
 The officials claimed that PMC had plans to integrate all public places on a single platform to aggregate the Wi-Fi hotspots to allow access with one-time authentication. Free Wi-Fi in gardens and schools is a part of the project under the Smart Cities Mission.
 
 The civic body had promised Wi-Fi connectivity in PMC limits in the 2006-07 fiscal. It had joined hands with a global computer chipmaker and a Chennai-based Wi-Fi service provider for the project called ‘Unwire Pune’. The project was supposed to be implemented in phases. The phase-I of the project had a target of providing connectivity in a 20sqkm covering Deccan Gymkhana, Sambhaji Park, Aundh, Baner and Model Colony. Free Wi-Fi service was launched at Sambhaji Park and the PMC building, but the project eventually fizzled out. The users had raised questions about the security of the network.
 
 Rajendra Jagtap, the chief executive officer of PSCDCL, said efforts had been made to resolve these issues. “All necessary security measures are in place for this network. The guidelines given by the government to provide such networks have been followed. It includes banning the websites sharing harmful content,” he said.
 
 In April 2016, Pune became one among the 10 railways stations in the country where free Wi-Fi service has been was made available to the public by the Indian Railways..
 
 The internet service powered by   on Railtel's infrastructure will benefit over 3 lakh visitors daily. It is a part of the tech company's effort to This is a part of the announcement made by Google, last year, to provide free, high-speed Wi-Fi at 400 railway stations across the country. 
 
 
