CHENNAI: Days after the 2004 tsunami, when a pair of parakeets flew down to feed on rice scattered on his   in Pycrofts Road, camera mechanic C Sekar never thought that in the years to come he would be feeding thousands of them daily. At least 2,000 parakeets during the summer and 6,000 during the winter make their way twice a day to feed on water-soaked rice laid out by Sekar.

 But the birds may now have to find another place for feed as Sekar, who has been a resident of the building for 27 years, has been given eviction orders. The landlords have decided to raze the 50-year-old structure. Known popularly as the ‘Birdman’, Sekar fears that the parakeets may never gather in such large numbers again if the building is demolished.
 
 Every other week, Sekar receives birdwatchers from around the world who are baffled by the daily arrival of the sensitive birds in the noisy and polluted environs of  . The parakeets flutter away at the noise of a loud horn but within seconds come back to nibble on rice laid out on carefully positioned wooden planks that accommodate thousands of birds at a time.
 
 Sekar says, “For 15 years I have been feeding the parakeets twice a day. They have never missed a meal.” Sekar, who spends nearly half his earnings on bird feed, was invited by the governor of Meghalaya in February to help him increase bird population in the north-eastern state. “I had to turn down the invitation as I cannot leave my duty of feeding the birds,” says Sekar.
 
 Also, the largest collection of antique cameras in the country, the ‘Birdman’ is fighting to retain the building in its current state and has even made an offer to buy the building. “I am willing to give away my collection of 4,500 priceless cameras to anybody who will come to my aid. My savings may not be enough to pay for the building,” says Sekar. The camera mechanic spends half his day working and the rest half hosting the birds.
 
 Madras Naturalists Society president V M Sudhakar, an avid birdwatcher, says that he has never seen such a large gathering of parakeets in the city before. “The daily visit by the parakeets must be the result of years of sustained conditioning. The birds will visit in such large numbers only if they are assured of feed at the same place at the same time every day.”
 
 The   resides in the building along with four other occupants who have all been told to vacate. A joint owner of the building, Neethiselvan says, “We are willing to sell the building to anybody who wants to buy it in the interest of preserving it for the birds.”
 
 
