KOCHI: Members of India Singers' Rights Association ( ) has demanded that FM radio stations, television channels and online mediums including YouTube should pay the singers a small amount as royalty whenever their songs are played or used for commercial purposes. 

 
 ISRA is a non-profit organization formed in 2013 to fight for the royalty rights of singers. The  , 2013, states that a singer as a performer shall be entitled for royalties from those using their voices for commercial programmes. 
 
 At ISRA's first-ever meeting held here on Thursday, Sanjay Tandon, CEO of ISRA, said while film producers and music companies have been getting their share of profit from the electronic media and online platforms, singers were being rewarded comparatively lesser than their counterparts.
 
 "Singers here said they don't get a penny as royalty. But things have slowly started changing. On April 14, 2018, for the first time, the ISRA collected and distributed around Rs 51 lakh as royalty to popular playback singers in the country. We hope the Rs 51 lakh we received as royalty will grow ten-fold if radio, television channels and mobile companies (for ringtones and caller tunes) start paying us. Right now, only   teams, amusement parks and gyms, are paying the royalty amount", Tandon said.
 
 "We are at present holding talks with media companies to educate them about the importance of paying royalty to singers. If discussions failed to create a positive impact we will approach court to obtain royalties from them", he said.
 
 Singer Srinivas termed the development a step in the right direction. "The law has given us the right to royalty. As singers we are entitled to it by all means. It's like pension to us. A time will come when we grow old and our voices would deteriorate," he said.
 
 Singer   contested the notion that playback singers were receiving a good remuneration. 
 
 "Unlike the previous generation of singers, the careers of singers these days are short-lived as new voices and talents are emerging every day. There are singers who have sung just one song. They are also playback singers," he said.
 
 Veteran singer   hoped that royalties would support singers struggling to make ends meet.
 
 Singer Jyotsna Radhakrishnan said though singers got good amount from stage shows and programmes, all singers won't get such shows.
 
 
