Trichy: There is nothing unusual in students coming back to their alma mater and contributing to its development. In contrast, it was a group of retired teachers of EVR Periyar College in Trichy who came together on Tuesday on the college premises. They recollected their good old days and resolved to actively contribute to its development.

 As many as 120 retired teachers from various departments congregated on the college premises and decided to meet every year twice on May 1 and October 2. Ku Pa Ganesan, now 75, who retired from the college 17 years ago, said that they had been planning for such a get-together for the past six months. “It was disheartening to find that we were unaware of the demise of some of our former colleagues and senior teachers when we started to create a database of former teachers,” said Ganesan who resides close to the college. “Realizing that we could have met long ago, we decided to meet as soon as possible and thus spread the message by word of mouth and telephone to meet at the college on May 1,” he said.
 
 “Of the total 145 people, we could manage to bring together 120 which was indeed surprising for us,” said Raja Muthu Irulandi, the first registrar of Bharathidasan University and a retired teacher of the college. Saying that it was time for them to give back to the institutions which had given them a career and an identity, S Viswanathan, former director of physical education, said that they had decided to groom the students in all possible ways though their contribution. 
 
 The event was organized on a voluntary basis by the retired teachers who were yet to come together under an association or organization. However, it was decided at the meeting to create a forum to unite all the retired teachers. “We are planning to form an online forum to expand the number of retired teachers and organize events for the students, to train the present students of the college for competitive exams and provide other necessary guidance,” said Raja Muthu Irulandi.
 
 
