PATNA: The sultry weather conditions are here to stay for at least another three days even though the weatherman on Saturday forecast isolated   in   and other districts of   from Monday to Wednesday.

 
 The meteorological office has in fact predicted that the thunderstorm activities may increase in intensity and occur in scattered manner on Tuesday and Wednesday due to a cyclonic circulation over the state and neighbouring areas. As a result, the maximum temperature may fall from 40-41 degrees C at present to 37 degrees C by next Wednesday.
 
 “We are expecting a slight plunge in the temperature from Tuesday owing to thunderstorm activities. Till then, however, the maximum temperature is likely to be in the range of 40-41 degrees C in central Bihar, including Patna, and 42-44 degrees C in south Bihar, including Gaya. In northeastern districts like Purnia, it will be in the range of 35 to 37 degrees C,” said a   official.
 
 The official attributed the sultry weather conditions to high temperature and moisture level owing to dominant moist easterly winds. Humidity level is being measured in the range of 40-60% at most places in the state these days.
 
 Weather experts also said the prevailing hot and humid weather was creating conducive conditions for the onset of southwest monsoon in the region. The India Meteorological Department’s all-India weather bulletin on Saturday morning said the southwest monsoon advanced into the south Andaman Sea, parts of the   and the Nicobar Islands.
 
 It further said conditions were favourable for further advance of monsoon clouds into parts of the south Arabian Sea, Comorin-Maldives areas, more parts of the south Bay of Bengal, Andaman Sea and Andaman and Nicobar Islands during the next 24 hours.
 
 The normal date for the onset of monsoon in Bihar through the northeastern districts of Purnia and   is June 10. It hits central parts of the state, including Patna, around June 13.
 
 The weather experts said the monsoon might arrive early in the state this time. “Southwest monsoon is likely to make an early entry into Kerala within the next four days. If the forecast holds, monsoon will arrive this year at least three days ahead of normal date. Accordingly, the rain-bearing winds may blow over Bihar around June 8-10, but it will depend on certain local factors as well during the advancement of rain-bearing winds,” said Pradhan Parthasarathy, a scientist at the   and secretary at the Indian Meteorological Society.
 
 
