CHENNAI: The Tamil Nadu government is planning to launch mobile libraries facility for schools in 12 district of the state. The vehicles carrying books will visit two schools in a day for one-hour reading session for students. 

 School education minister   said on Friday that the government will issue an order in this regard soon.
 
 “In the morning and evening, these mobile (buses) libraries will visit schools so that students can read the books. To improve reading habits, we will begin an initiative through which, with approval from the head master we will conduct a one-hour reading session every week,” Sengottaiyan said.
 
 The minister was speaking during a national conference on 'global trends and innovations in libraries and information centres' at the  . 
 
 Sengottaiyan said of the 312 full-time libraries, 119 will be digitalised soon adding that in all major libraries in 32 districts, the government will soon begin training for IAS, IPS aspirants.
 
 “Rs 5 crore have been sanctioned for maintainance of the Anna Centenary Library where rare palm-leaf manuscripts are kept. For the Yazhpaanam library which was damaged during the civil war in Sri Lanka, the CM will soon gift 1 lakh books. Cess for education has also been increased by 4%. This revenue will be used to improve the functioning of libraries. The education department will start collecting funds for it from local bodies. We have set a target to enrol one lakh members to the libraries in the state,” Sengottaiyan said.
  
 While the government is carrying out training programme for the National Eligibility cum Entrance Test (NEET) on one hand, it is also assuring aspirants to seek an exemption from the exam this year. 
 
 “The government is firm in its decision to seek an exemption for the state from the NEET exam. The chief minister has already met Prime Minister, the home minister and the President in this regard. 
 
 The minister said thousands of students are participating in the NEET training. 
 
 “In a few days, in all of the local bodies, 412 training centres will begin to function. Additionally, the 72,000 students who have enrolled for the training will get free laptops. During this training, students will be assessed every week through mock tests and toppers will get special training in four selected colleges in Chennai,” he said.
 
