Trichy: Bharathidasan University is looking for major infrastructure boost through strategic funding under Rashtriya Uchchatar Shiksha Abhiyan (RUSA) - a centrally funded scheme.

 Discussions are on to prepare a comprehensive proposal to claim a fund of Rs 40 crore under RUSA in the second phase. The proposal is being prepared in view of the National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC) accreditation assessment for which the university has to appear. 
 
 The central instrumentation facility at the university will get major infrastructure boost in terms of vital equipment under RUSA. This apart, an international hostel will also be set up as part of the university’s initiative to attract NRI students to the university.
 
 However, there aren’t any significant steps in terms of progressive research in the university, claims a section of the university faculty for there isn’t any focus on inter-disciplinary research, which is vital for future growth.
 
 Under the RUSA scheme, funds would be directed through the state government and the Centre will give 60% of the funds to execute the projects submitted by the university in the form of a proposal. This is the second phase of RUSA funding to the tune of Rs 40crore to each university. Unless 75% of the grant from RUSA in the first phase was not exhausted, universities cannot claim funding in the second phase.
 
 Claiming that   has submitted the report for spending 75% of the funds in the first phase, Vice Chancellor P Manishankar said that this time planning is based on NAAC requirement. The inter-disciplinary instrumentation facility at the university is essential to score in NAAC accreditation process. The centralised facility would house high-end equipment to be used by various university departments, he said.
 
 These apart, a large number of computers are to be procured in the university as part of the process to up-grade them. Besides this, the whole university would be brought under CCTV surveillance with solar lamps, he said. Taking steps to attract NRI students to the university, an international hostel would be set up on the university campus.
 
 Meanwhile, senior faculty members in the university are of the view that inter-disciplinary research is not being encouraged in the university. There has to be a multi-disciplinary approach in research with inter-departmental collaboration to claim funding of over Rs 100crore under UPE (University with Potential for Excellence). However, such collaboration seems to be lacking in the university and RUSA funds could be utilised in this area," said a senior faculty.
 
 Bharathidasan University had failed twice in getting UPE status after the proposal it submitted to UGC was rejected for lacking focus. The university must gain popularity in terms of research either in a particular field or in inter-disciplinary research to become progressive.
 
 Moreover, the proposal is also being prepared in a hurry because of the less time given by the union government.
 
 
