With summer at its peak, people happily hit the nearby lakes to find some solace in lap of nature and of course, to exercise. And even though   Lake is one of the favourite spots for many fitness lovers and bird-watchers, the new phenomenon, Ambazari   (circumambulation) has given them an opportunity to explore this place in a different light…

  For Ambazari Parikrama, one has to start from Swami Vivekanand Smarak. “You have to walk around 12.5 km to complete the parikrama,” says a   enthusiast, Shakal Shukla adding, “I have been coming to Ambazari Lake, on almost every weekend of late, to circumambulate. In fact, many of my friends are eagerly waiting to join me for the parikrama. Though the terrain is a bit raw for cycling, I hope I manage to complete the journey on my bike soon.”
 
  The activity has become a huge hit among the   and birdwatchers too. A dental student, Sagarika Limaye, who recently did the parikrama shares that the activity gave her an opportunity to get up close with the nature. She adds, “I have been to Ambazari Lake several times before for bird-watching but I didn’t know that we can also take a tour of the entire periphery of the lake. I don’t mind coming here on weekends along with my friends.”
 
  At 89, a fitness enthusiast, Nilkanth Mathurkar too is hooked to this exciting activity. “As it is I walk around 6km every morning and evening. But recently when I walked almost 12km around Ambazari Lake the experience was quite an enriching one,” says he.
 
  Another frequenter of Ambazari Lake especially for parikrama,entrepreneur Rashmi Kulkarni feels that this initiative will also highlight the deplorable state of the lake. She adds, “The lake is extremely beautiful and serene. Also, during our recent trail, my friends and I even found a space, which is ideal for night camps. But the sight of broken bottles and plastic waste at the shore is quite heart-breaking. I hope NMC take cognizance of this issue; we are ready to lend our full support to the authorities.”
 
 
