BHOPAL: No horsing around in Bhopal this wedding season. The   corporation ( ) government on Saturday banned movement of horses, mules, and donkeys within the city and out of its borders to check the spread of the deadly Glanders disease, which can kill humans too. 

 The blanket ban on movement of horses will impact wedding ceremonies in the city. A groom astride a horse is one of the most glamorous features of Indian weddings - and much sought after in Bhopal.
 
 BMC commissioner Priyanka Das confirmed the ban and said, "Since it's a communicable disease, any horse can spread it." BMC has notified the city as a "controlled area" after a horse was diagnosed with the potentially fatal equine Glanders disease. It belongs to  , a resident of Qazi Camp.
 
 Das issued the ban, citing the district collector's report that a blood sample of the horse, sent to Indian Council for Agricultural Research-National Regional Centre for Equines (ICAR-NRCE) in Hisar, tested positive for Glanders.
 
 The corporation announced an embargo on movement of these animals, saying: "No carrier of goods or animal shall carry any animal of the equine species (donkey, horses and mules) from or out of a controlled area, free area or infected area."
 
 This order prohibits the movement of animals belonging to the equine species from the place where they are kept to any other place within or outside the municipal area and also prohibits the holding of races, fairs, exhibitions, games and gathering of such animals in the municipal area of Bhopal.
 
 Samples are being collected from horses in a 10km radius of Kazi Camp. Officials have initiated proceedings to cull the infected horse. Those infected salivate excessively and lumps erupt in their body.
 
 "Rehman will be compensated Rs 25,000 for the culling of his horse. The local administration and police have been informed.   are on to collect samples from other horses in the vicinity," said Dr D K Rai, deputy director veterinary services told TOI. 
 
 
