MUMBAI: In a move that will test the bankruptcy law,   on Monday agreed to acquire Binani Cement for Rs 7,266 crore, three days after a Dalmia Bharat-led consortium said its Rs 6,350-crore bid had won the support of the debt-laden company’s creditors.

 
 Industry observers said that UltraTech’s move will put the insolvency code to trial and also raises the question whether a counter offer can be considered after a court-appointed insolvency professional had closed the bidding process and supported one of the bidders.
 
 UltraTech Cement, controlled by  , entered into an agreement with   to acquire its 98.43% shareholding in Binani Cement. The pact, however, is subject to termination of insolvency proceedings against Binani Cement. 
 
 On Monday, Binani Industries moved the National Company Law Tribunal ( ) in Kolkata to terminate the insolvency proceedings in relation to Binani Cement after UltraTech agreed to issue a ‘comfort letter’ of Rs 7,266 crore in return for selling its stake in its cement unit. To terminate insolvency proceedings, Binani Cement will have to pay off the liabilities. Binani Industries approached UltraTech for funds, which the latter agreed to provide with the understanding that it would acquire Binani Industries’ shareholding in the cement company.
 
 On March 16, after the Dalmia Bharat-consortium — backed by   Credit and Piramal Enterprises — said that its bid had the support of Binani Cement’s creditors, UltraTech moved NCLT in Kolkata, alleging lack of transparency in the auction process. It had sought cancellation of the creditors’ support in favour of the Dalmia Bharat-led consortium’s bid. Besides the Rs 6,350-crore cash offer, the consortium has offered a 20% stake to Binani Cement’s lenders.
 
 
  
 The tribunal on Monday directed Vijaykumar Iyer of Deloitte, the resolution professional, to file his statement on the selection of the Dalmia Bharat-consortium as the lead bidder for Binani Cement. The matter will be heard on March 22.
 
 Atul Daga, CFO of UltraTech, said that the aim of the bankruptcy code is to maximise the interest of all stakeholders. UltraTech, which currently has a cement production capacity of over 92 million tonnes, will see its capacity increase by 6.3 million tonnes if it manages to acquire Binani Cement.
 
 Sameer Kaji, adviser to Binani Industries, said that the shortcomings in the insolvency process prompted the company to look for other options. “As a corporate debtor, we wanted transparency and information sharing by the resolution professional at the meetings of the committee of creditors. Unfortunately, we were never involved in any of the discussions,” Kaji said, adding that the bankruptcy code allows promoter-shareholders to participate in the meetings but are not allowed to vote. 
 
 “We feel we have been aggrieved. We should have been allowed to participate as we could evaluate the offers and added value to them,” Kaji said. He also said that the Rs 7,266-crore offer by UltraTech has no haircut to any creditors of Binani Cement. “This could be the first case that could open up a new avenue for many other companies in financial distress,” said Kaji.
 
 
