Surat: A 34-year-old man was convicted by a local court in Valsad in the sensational triple murder case of 2010 in which he killed his wife, brother-in-law and mother-in-law at their residence.

 A marketing executive in a private company Milin Surti was convicted for murder of his wife Pooja (25), brother-in-law Dhaval (16) and mother-in-law Bhartiben Chauhan (51) at their house at Mullavadi in Valsad on May 11, 2010, and awarded imprisonment till his last breath and also imposed fine of Rs1 lakh under IPC sections. The next of kin of the victim family were given Rs 2 lakh under compensation scheme of the government by additional sessions judge M M Mansuri on Tuesday.
 
 Milin was found guilty of murder, house trespass in order to commit offence punishable with death and criminal intimidation by additional sessions judge Mansuri.
 
 “The case was important since the convict had attacked the victims, who were trying to get justice through a court of law. He carried out a criminal act to deal with legal action,” district government pleader, Surat, Nayan Sukhadwala, who had been appointed special prosecutor in the case, said.
 
 Milin was 26 when he murdered his wife and two others. He got married to Pooja after a brief affair. She went to stay with Milin against the wishes of her family members. Later, she went to stay with her parents, leaving her one-month-old child with Milin, complaining of harassment and torture by him. Pooja’s father Shailesh Chauhan, ex-government pleader in Silvassa, sent a notice to Milin for harassment through a senior lawyer on May 5, which was served to him on May 8, 2010.
 
 The notice angered Milin, who inquired about punishment for harassment of wife and decided to get punished for a major crime instead, police investigation revealed. He purchased a knife from market and did recce of his in-laws’ residence. He was angry with his wife since she didn’t bother to feed their month-old child.
 
 He reached his in-laws’ residence on his motorcycle and killed the three victims on May 11, 2010. Younger daughter of Chauhan could survive the attack because she ran out of the house in time. Milin escaped leaving his motorcycle on the spot. However, he was arrested by the police within hours of the murder. Milin had escaped from police custody during trial in 2016, but was arrested again from Umargam.
 
 
