When I boarded my   flight from   little did I know that a flight of 130 minutes would turn into a night-long ordeal. It all started smooth. My flight from Ranchi departed right on time — at 9.05pm and everything went well until 10.45pm.

 But just when I was preparing to land — my scheduled arrival was 11.15pm — all hell broke loose.
 
 Our pilot announced that the Hyderabad airport runway was shut owing to a tyreburst incident and that we might have to hover over the city for about 40 minutes, before we land. The other option was to re-route to  .
 
 I was startled but still not overtly worried. Around me, my fellow passengers started to indulge in small talk — each trying to ally the other’s concern.
 
 The temperatures began to rise when about 40 minutes later we were suddenly told that the flight was being diverted to Bengaluru. While some started to pace up and down to calm themselves, others sought familiar faces to deal with the situation.
 
 Amidst an air of anxiety, lack of sleep and some expensive snacks to compensate for dinner, we reached the Bengaluru’s   at 12:40am.
 
 But the ordeal was still far from over. While I was hoping that within an hour we would be on our way back to Hyderabad, it was not meant to be. As the clock ticked past 1.30pm, I knew we were in for a longer haul. Tired and helpless — and with an ear to the speaker — I sat stiff in my seat, praying for the night to end safely for all.
 
 I was jolted out of my daze at 3.10am when the staff asked us to deplane and this time, wait endlessly at the departure terminal. With a bunch of equally flustered passengers and four Twix for company, I settled down in a cold-steel chair surrendering myself to the crisis.
 
 Finally, after a quick change of gate, the screen in front flashed what I had been waiting for, hours on end — boarding for I5 1585. It was 5.45am by then. Looking around me, I saw a sense of relief dawn on the faces of my exhausted co-passengers, who slipped into slumber soon after take-off at 6.15am So, two security checks, one unscheduled diversion, many delays, several announcements and a change in date later, I landed in Hyderabad at 7.15am – 12 hours after I had left home.
 
