NEW DELHI:   might be playing in their maiden   ( ) season but they have quietly moved into playoff contention with a steady show. They might not be the most dazzling of the teams but under the guidance of coach   they have left everyone impressed. 

 
 The team has particularly impressed on the defensive front having conceded just 12 goals - the least among the 10 teams – in 15 matches so far. With seven wins and four draws, they are on 25 points and will face   on Sunday hoping to further solidify their chances to make it to the semi-finals.
 
 Former India captain   gives the credit to Coppell who joined the outfit after guiding   to the final of the league last season. In his column for TOI, he wrote "It has been slow and steady for Jamshedpur FC in the Hero Indian Super League. They are a team without much flair but have been very effective on the field. You need to credit coach Steve Coppell and his players for all of that. It was perhaps the slowest start when Jamshedpur drew their first three matches, won the fourth, and had only conceded one goal till their sixth match."
 
 He continued his praise for the team and Coppell who he feels has used his tactical nous to get favourable results without worrying about playing attractive football.
 
 "They are not a team which is attack-oriented. They are rather very compact, back each other up with their indomitable spirit and achieve what is needed. Coppell’s presence and tactical acumen are Jamshedpur FC’s strengths. He may not be playing the tiki-taka way but has planned it to perfection to achieve results. Football is all about that — in the end, only results matter and nothing else. If you look around the footballing world, playing attractive doesn’t always give you what you want," he wrote.
 
 Jamshedpur are on the right track and should they manage to seal semis spot, Bhutia thinks, it will be wonderful for not only the club but for the Indian football as well. "Coppell had taken the Kerala Blasters to the final in the last edition and with the band of players he has, he has set the right recipe for his club. It will be really wonderful for the club, the fans and Indian football overall if Jamshedpur are able to gain a semi-final berth, that too in their first year of inception," he wrote.
 
 
