INDORE: The commercial tax department has initiated the mobile checking of vehicles transporting   in the entire state and so far about 100 vehicles have been detained for violating   norms. 

 These vehicles have been found transporting goods either with faulty bills or without registration. The e-way bill has been made mandatory for movement of goods worth Rs 50,000 from one state to another since April 1.
 
  
  
 Joint commissioner and e-way bill nodal officer   said, “So far the department has detained 100 vehicles in the state for violating e-way bill norms. After investigation if they are found guilty of tax evasion then they will be charged with penalty.”
 
 About 80 teams from commercial tax department have been assigned for mobile checking in the state. The teams check 2,500-3000 vehciles daily. Of them, 50 are found transporting goods with faulty bills.
 
 The number of e-way bills forms being generated each day for transportation of goods out of the state has increased almost thrice in the entire state since its roll out. 
 
 In the first few days, just 4,000 to 5,000 e-way bills were filled each day in the whole state, according to the data from the state commercial tax department. Now, the numbers have increased to over 15,000 forms each day. In Indore, around 2000 e- way bills are being generated each day.
 
 Sharma said, “Gradually more e-way forms are being used for transportation. On an average 14,600-14,800 forms are being filled for the inter-state movement of goods and these numbers are likely to surge in coming days.”
 
 According to transporters, most of the transporting vehicles from the state go to Delhi, Gujarat, Mumbai and Nagpur among others. The department receives around 200 calls with queries of filling up the form during transit every day on their helpline numbers.
 
 Sharma said, “People call us to help them with filling the form,   number in the right format, HSN code and many other queries. Our technical staff gives telephonic assistance and also shares their monitor in case the query is not resolved through call.”
 
 The department has come up with 100 helpline numbers in every circle for the dealers, while the centralised help desk is at Indore. 
 
 A transporter from Indore   said, “We are gradually getting used to the system. But still some problems persist because all of us are not technically sound and calling on the helpline numbers is time consuming.”
 
 There are a total of 3 lakh dealers in the entire state. 
 
 For the intra-state movement of goods, e-way bill will be introduced in a phased manner in different states.
 
 
