GURUGRAM: Gurugram’s crowded skyline will soon have a new landmark with the American president’s name emblazoned on top of it. India’s fourth   project — named after Donald Trump and licensed by his company Trump Organisation — was launched in the city on Wednesday, the most heavyweight addition in Gurugram’s new but populated world of premium housing projects.

 The Trump Organisation is not, however, investing in the project, which is a collaboration between NCR-based real estate major M3M and Tribeca Developers of Mumbai. The Gurugram edition of Trump Towers will be located on a 60-acre plot on  . It will have 258 apartments in a price bracket of Rs 5 crore-10 crore with a total area in a range between 3,500 and 4,500 square feet. The project is scheduled for completion in March 2023, by which time Trump would have faced his second election, should he contest.
 
 The two towers that will house these flats will stand out in the skyline because they will be taller (200 metres) than other premium projects of the same proportions (usually 170 metres), its developers claimed. The towers will bear the Trump brand name and will be developed under a licence from the Trump Organization, which is currently led by Donald Trump Jr, the American president’s son.
 
  
  
 A statement from Donald Trump Jr, executive vice-president of the Trump Organisation, said, “Trump Towers Delhi NCR will quickly become the most prestigious address in the city, with its stunning architecture, beautiful interior options and lavish amenity spaces.”
 
 Trump Towers’ three other projects are in Mumbai, Pune and Kolkata, Pune being the oldest in India. In terms of size, the Gurugram edition will be second after Mumbai, whose projhect contours are still being worked out. 
 
 The Mumbai and Pune projects were launched before Donald Trump was elected president. The Kolkata and Gurugram projects were launched later (Kolkata, in October 2017) but deals for these were already signed before his election. After Trump’s election, the Trump Organisation had announced it would not launch any project outside the US.
 
 The statement from Trump Jr added, “I’m incredibly proud to see the overwhelming response that Trump Tower Kolkata has received during the soft launch and look forward to repeating this success with Trump Towers Delhi NCR.” His Indian representative and founder of Tribeca Kalpesh Mehta said 65% of the apartments launched in the Kolkata project were sold in 50 days. The developers also claim to have sold 20 apartments already in the Gurugram project.
 
 M3M director Pankaj Bansal said, “The global appeal of the Trump brand along with the absolute best product offering will give the luxury residential market a much needed boost.” Mehta added, “This project won’t be just home for a select few, it will be a landmark for the city.”
 
 The total investment for the construction of the project would be Rs 1,200 crore, Bansal said. The project has a total area of 60 acres, of which the towers will come up on 11 acres and will face a 9-hole golf course.
 
 Bansal said they had already received cheques worth Rs 150 crore for 20 apartments.
 
 In order give exclusiveness to the project, the developer said the height of every floor would be 3.75 metres as opposed 3.15 metres in usual premium projects. A third of the flats will have 22-foot-high living rooms, giving them a penthouse feel, he added.
 
 Among other features of Trump Towers are a temperature-controlled indoor pool, a spa and fitness centre, a fine-dining restaurant, business centre, and in-residence catering.
 
 
