The episode of   starts with everyone on the dining table praising the food, Shanoo tells everyone that the parathas are cooked by Simmi. Mrs Bhalla then tells Simmi to take Shanoo for police verification as it is an important step and it should be followed before hiring any maid. Ishita aka Shanoo gets tensed as she fears of getting caught.

 Shanoo rushes towards her room and tries calling Shagun for help, but the latter doesn't take her call. Simmi walks into Shanoo’s room as Shanoo drops her phone out of fear. She tries to make an excuse so that she can avoid police verification, but Simmi drags her from the room to take her to the cops. Ishita aka Shanoo tries to fake an injury and divert everyone’s situation so that nobody takes her to the police. However, Raman offers help and tells them he will drop them to the
 police station.
 
 Meanwhile, Shagun after her meeting notices Ishita’s missed calls and tries calling her but Ishita doesn’t pick-up as she leaves her phone behind before going to the cops. Shagun calls up Aaliya and casually asks her about everyone’s whereabouts. Aaliya during her conversation reveals that Simmi has taken Shanoo aka Ishita to the cops for verification. Shagun rushes towards police station to help Shanoo.
 
 At the police station, Ishita in her totally Haryanvi accent refuses to let the cops see her face and tells them that it is against her traditions. When they ask her about her address she fakes it. Ishita is scared and starts panicking and creating a ruckus that she won't reveal her face. Raman, who is also at the police station, tells Simmi to let go the verification process. Just when they plan to leave a
 constable suggests that a female cop can see Shanoo’s face if she is not comfortable showing her face to the male officers.
 
 Ishita gets into a fix, she goes inside the room with the female officer. Shanoo aka Ishita tries to avoid the situation by giving excuses but the female officer doesn’t let her go she forcibly lifts her ghoonghat and sees her face. She recognizes Ishita and tells her that she will reveal it to everyone that she is not a maid but Ishita.
 
 Ishita begs her to not to do it. Shagun walks in from the back gate and manages to persuade the female cops and she joins hands with them.
 
 Shanoo and Simmi return home tired and Pihu is seen thanking Shanoo for helping her make her school project. Shanoo tells her that she should thank her bua Simmi and not her. Pihu gets scared to thank Simmi but gathers courage and goes towards her. She thanks Simmi but she doesn’t respond. Just then Shanoo walks in and asks Pihu to hug her bua and thank her. Pihu hugs Simmi and they get emotional.
  
 Suddenly Simmi remembers about her past how Ishita had confessed to her of killing her daughter Ananya. She pushes Pihu away.
 
 Param and Raman leave for a meeting. They are shown waiting for a client at a hotel when suddenly Param sees Ashok sitting with someone. He instigates Raman saying that Ashok and Ishita lied about going on a business trip as they are in the same city.
  
  Raman tries asking Ashok about Ishita and they get into an argument. He gets curious about Ishita and argues with Shagun about her. Shagun teases him and leaves Raman with Shanoo aka Ishita.
 
 Ishita, who is in Shanoo's disguise, pulls Raman's leg of having an affair with Ishita.
  
 
