Amaravati: The state   has cleared the administrative sanction for the release of about Rs 1,244 crore to Navayuga Group which has taken up the Polavaram project.

 The Navayuga Group has taken up the cement concrete works for the spillway and spill channel at the project following a series of complaints against the original contractor - Transstroy. The government had entrusted part of the project work to Navayuga last month by invoking Clause 60c of the AP Detailed Standard Specifications. Though the state wanted to completely drop Transstroy and go for a new contractor, the central government had advised against the decision fearing legal issues. Following this, the state had invoked Clause 60C and assigned the cement concrete work at the project site to the Navayuga Group.
 
 Now, with the Navayuga taking up the work and chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu inspecting the project work at the site on February 19, the cabinet has cleared Rs 1,244 crore to the company towards initial payment.
 
 The cabinet has decided to provide basic infrastructure in 42 towns in the state which are not included in the central government-sponsored Amrut (Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation) scheme. The state government would now recognise the medical engineering wing of the public health department as the implementing agency for the programme. The programme would be implemented with the financial assistance from the Asian Infrastructure Instrument Bank under the external-aided projects, which is estimated to cost Rs 4,189 crore. The state government would share Rs 1,117 crore, while 42 towns would share Rs 465 crore. The external agencies would invest the balance amount of Rs 2,066 crore.
 
 The project would be taken up under the Andhra Pradesh Urban Water Supply and Septage Management Improvement Project while the AP Urban Finance and Infrastructure Development Corporation would work as nodal agency. The agency’s managing director is also authorised to sign MoUs with the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank for implementation of the scheme. 
 
 Amaravati: The state cabinet cleared land allocation for SPI Cinemas to establish family entertainment centres in Visakhapatnam and Tirupati. Urban development authorities (UDAs) of these two cities would sign MoUs with SPI Cinemas which would get three acres in Visakhapatnam and four acres in Tirupati on 33-year lease. 
 
 The investors would spend Rs 25 crore each on the two projects and complete them in two years. The projects will have convention centre, food court, six multiplex screens and three star hotels.
 
 
