In the latest episode of  , Mehek’s father hits her and her mom tries to stop him. Mehek's father threatens her and warns her to not go out of the house otherwise he will kill her. Mehek’s sister blames   and tells her that her mother’s condition is because of her own behaviour. Mehek tries to tell her hat she won the tournament but   gave the trophy to his son  . Mehek cries and sits in a corner. 

 While on the other side, Shaurya comes back home and the entire family celebrates as he won the prize and   performs aarti.
 
 Mehek's father   tells his friend that Mehek won the trophy and she is a girl who fought with the boys. He loses his calm and says that girls should stay within their limit.
 
 Mehek’s mother and her sister give her milk. Vikram walks into the home and tells everyone that he will get Mehek married. He further says that Mehek will get married in two days. Mehek says that she will run away from the house as she does not want to marry a man like her father. She packs her bag and says that she will run from the house. Her sister tells her mother not to cry for Mehek as she wants to run from the house. Mehek gets angry and says that she should have died and her sister hugs her. 
 
 Shaurya's Dadi asks   and Sweety to stay in their room. Shaurya gets upset and thinks about Mehek. Vikram is happy and says that he will get good money in return of Mehek. 
 
 Shaurya informs his mother Rashmi about what happened at the championship and says that he wants to meet her. While Mehek remembers what happened at the championship. Mehek's sister gets her ready as a bride. 
 
 
 The baraat arrives at her doorstep and Shaurya's mother asks the driver if he knows Mehek since birth. He tells Rashmi everything about Mehek and she faints. Dadi gives her water and Shaurya takes his mother to his room. Rashmi locks the door and tells Shaurya that she pretended to faint and tells him something. While, on the other side, Mehek comes to the mandap and her mother starts crying. 
 
 
