BENGALURU: The fraud surrounding Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences’ fake marks cards and degree certificates appears to be bigger than initially believed. On Wednesday, the varsity claimed a group of colleges operating from Laggere is, prima facie, involved in the racket.

 RGUHS said it had received a complaint from an Iranian student against a college run by   in Laggere, claiming she was issued a fake hall ticket. However, Sunny D, chairman,
 
 
 Bethel Medical Mission, denied it. “We are being targeted by a group of people I cannot name right now,” Sunny said. “If we have done anything wrong, I am willing to close down the college, but the university cannot break rules.”
 
 A five-member committee was formed a day after TOI broke the story on the racket. While its probe is on, another nine-member committee has found that Bethel Medical Mission, which runs multiple colleges, may have even forged other documents.
 
 The larger committee was set up in the wake of the complaint from  , the Iranian student. Mobaraki is a final- year student at the   of Physiotherapy.
 
 Stamps, seals, documents
 
 Based on the findings of the committee and the complaint from Mobaraki, the university conducted a surprise inspection at Hosmat College on Wednesday. The raid party claimed to have found more incriminating documents on the computers at the college, as well as stamps and seals belonging to several colleges which vicechancellor M K   said “will be investigated further”.
 
 The college has filed an FIR against the university, claiming that some unnamed members had trespassed on its property and stolen material, including cash. Ramesh, said: “We have gathered evidence, and our preliminary investigation shows the college is involved in something (illegal). A report will be prepared by Monday, which will be submitted to the government.”
 
 However, RGUHS has earned flak for the way it has conducted itself over the surprise inspection. S  , president, Karnataka State Association of Management of Nursing and Allied Health Sciences Institutions, argued the university did not follow procedure and the inspection party did not display identity cards or any authorisation for such an inspection.
 
 “If the institution is in the wrong, we will not support it, and will endorse action against the college,” Shivakumar said. “While the university has powers to conduct inspections, it must be backed with an order from a magistrate. Police must also be informed. Why hasn’t the university filed an FIR? This is an extortion racket being run by some individuals using the university.” Ramesh, however, insisted that the varsity has powers under Section 13(1) of the RGUHS Act to conduct special inspections.
 
 Sunny said: “An outsider is trying to tarnish the image of our college, and we will fight it. RGUHS can summon us any time, and we will send our principal and students in question, and even submit all the documents sought. But they cannot do things illegally, which is why we have filed an FIR.”
 
