PATNA: St Joseph’s Convent High School has announced that it will take admissions against 40 vacancies in Class I and 45 vacancies in Class VI. One can buy admission forms between 8.30am and 12 noon on March 27 by paying Rs 500. The forms and other documents, such as two recent passport size photographs, original birth certificate and previous year’s mark sheet, have to be submitted before 12.30pm on the same day. The date for admission test will be mentioned in the form. The results will be declared on April 17. 

 St Xavier’s College: Saharsh Shubham of BCom (professional) won ‘Student of the year’ award at the annual day celebrations of St Xavier’s College and St Xavier’s College of Management and Technology on Sunday. The annual theme for this year was ‘Champion of the truth’. The function commemorated Mahatma Gandhi’s Champaran satyagrah. Student achievers were also awarded at the event. Students presented skits and dance performances. Education Minister   was the chief guest. Patna mayor Sita Devi Sahu and Mount Carmel School principal Sister Serena Lobo AC were also present. The education minister appreciated the efforts of the students. Sahu stressed on the need to inculcate right values, such as honesty and cleanliness, in students. She urged the students to cooperate with Patna Municipal Corporation to keep the city clean and green. Lauding the efforts of the students and their enthusiastic participation, Sister Serena Lobo AC said she was happy to see the progress made by the college within a span of just eight years.
 
 Kitty’s Kids: Rukanpura-based playschool Kitty’s Kids celebrated its annual day on Sunday. The theme of the event was ‘Clean India, green India’. The event was collectively inaugurated by the grandparents of the students. Principal Bhavna Gupta called for a clean environment. Students presented several performances, such as ‘Save mother Earth’, ‘Sabko ye samjhana hai, hamko ped lagana hai’, ‘Story of a Tree: Na kato mujhe dukhta hai’ and ‘Clean India’.
 
 
