RAJKOT: Two of the 11-member robbers gang, which had unleashed terror on on Maliya-Ahmedabad highway on May 15 by murdering on truck driver and looting three others, were nabbed on Sunday. 

 Sanjay Darbar aias Munna and Kishan Jadav, both aged 25, are residents of Gangad village near Bavla town of Ahmedabad. Police said that financial crunch and debts had driven the duo to join the gang of seasoned highway robbers, most of whom are natives of Bagodara taluka.
 
 Acting on a tip-off that the robbers were travelling in a car, police intercepted the vehicle at Bhimasar crossroads near   in Morbi district and nabbed them. Police have launched a manhunt for nine other gang members who are from the Dafer community. They have been identified as Jamal Dafer alias Salim, Ramzan Dafer, Lalo Dafer, Kava Dafer and Hayaz Dafer from Gangad village, and Katiya Dafer, Amad Dafer, Akbar Dafer from Rethal village of Bagodara taluka in Ahmedabad and Saddam Dafer of Devalia village of Ranpur taluka in   district. 
 
 Police sources said that the arrrested accused Munna’s parents are lodged in Ahmedabad jail for some crime. Other than needing money to get them released on bail, Munna had also run out of money to pay instalments of   car that he had purchased. On the other hand, Jadav, a farm labourer, had overspent in his marriage recently and was under heavy debt. The duo met some members of this gang and they decided to undertake highway robber.
 
 It was on the three km stretch between Khirai and Vadharva villages near Maliya that they had carried out the robberies and murder between 3am to 5am on April 15. 
 
 “Three knives, one scythe, two catapults, six torches and one rope were recovered from the car of the duo,” said RT Vyas, Morbi local crime branch (LCB) sub-inspector RT Vyas. 
 
 While they let off drivers and cleaners of three trucks after beating and robbing them, one of the drivers Sukhram Ram Milan Pal, a native of   in Uttar Pradesh, who tried to resist them, was strangulated to death in the bushes. 
 
 
