ALWAR: Caste has always played a major role in the Alwar Lok Sahba election. But this time, both the main parties—BJP and Congress—have fielded a Yadav candidate in Dr Jaswant Yadav and Dr Karan Singh Yadav, respectively to neutralize the Yadav caste factor to any party.

 There are 15 candidates in the fray on the last date of filing nominations for the January 29 bypoll but the entry of farmer leader and a former   heavyweight Rampal Jat makes the by-election more interesting. 
 
 Alwar has been the pocket borough of former   minister Jitendra Singh who also belongs to the royal family. Jitendra Singh’s mother Mahendra Kumari was elected to Parliament from Alwar but in a BJP ticket, first victory for the saffron party. Despite Jitendra Singh brought in many large development projects to Alwar, he had to bite the dust from BJPs Mahant Chandnath in the last parliamentary elections in 2014 with a majority of 2,838,95 votes in the Modi wave.
 
 Due to prolonged illness and treatment, BJP MP Mahant Chandnath whose death necessitated the bypoll could not even spent the MP development fund in the constituency. The   alleges that development has come to a halt in Alwar under BJP.
 
 “Congress is seeking votes on its track record on development,” claims Dr Karan Singh.
 
 There are 18,270,66 voters in Alwar on which 9,616,53 are males and 8,569,25 are females. In the eight assembly seats in the Alwar parliamentary seat, seven are now with BJP while the remaining lone seat has gone to National Peoples Party represented by Golma Devi. The Congress drew a blank in the last assembly polls.
 
 However, the history of parliamentary elections favours the Congress. Congress won the seat 10 times as against the BJP only thrice. Caste-wise Scheduled Castes leads with 4.30 lakh population followed by Muslims at 3.10 lakh, Yadav 3.30 lakh, Jats 1.30 lakh,   1.10 lakh, Brahmin 1.15 lakh, Baniya 1 lakh, Sikhs 85,000, Gujjar 70,000, Rajputs 45,000, Mali 1.30 lakh, and others 60,000.
 
 “The spate of violence on the Muslims unleashed by cow vigilantes in the name of cow smuggling has put off the Meo Muslims from BJP. A few days back the uprooting of an Ambedkar statue from Sahajpur village under MIA police station has put the Dalits pitched against the ruling party while the ST Meena community, is considered close to the Congress especially after Dr   parting with the saffron party,” claims a political observer. 
 
 The BJP nominee who has been inducted into the Raje ministry in the last reshuffle vouches for the support of all the castes and classes. “I have the support of all the 36 castes,” claims Jaswant Yadav. He pins his hope on the charisma of chief minister Raje who had made this bypolls as a prestige issue. “The BJP is asking for votes on the performance of our governments, both at the state and the Centre.”
 
 However, Congress candidate Dr Karan Singh Yadav alleges that the BJP is trying to polarize the voters on religious lines after its development plank failed to make any impact among the voters.
 
 “In the last four years, the BJP governments have been sleeping and now, the CM and her council of ministers have been camping in Alwar to attract voters,” he alleges. 
 
 Rampal Jat who is also the national president of   accuses both the BJP and Congress of anti-farmer. He said, both the Congress and BJP failed to implement the Central Kisan Commission report on minimum support price.
 
 He is particularly harsh on the BJP which he alleged to have failed to fulfil its promise made to the farmers in the last parliament election on minimum support price.
 
 
