NEW DELHI: Indian coach   is using tactics of the Indian team during the 1985 World Championship, of their two main spinners claiming at least five opposition wickets in ODIs, former legspinner   said during a chat with TOI at the Ferozeshah Kotla on Tuesday.

 
 
 
 
 “Before my first ODI game in the 1985 tournament, our captain Sunil Gavaskar took Shastri and me out for lunch and told us to get at least five wickets in our 20 overs. Gavaskar even told me that he would not mind if I conceded more than 50 runs from the 10 overs. He wanted me to get two or three wickets in the middle overs. Ravi is using the same tactics as a coach now,” Siva said.
 
 He added that India’s approach could come very handy in the 2019 World Cup in England. “Finger spinners are the ones who restrict the flow of runs. They don’t get bounce and turn like wrist spinners. I completely back the idea of having   and   in the playing XI. These wrist spinners, who are natural turners of the ball, don’t provide the pace to the batsmen, whereas the fingers spinners start bowling fast after being hit,” Siva said.
 
 
 
 
 When asked if the likes of finger spinners like R Ashwin and Ravindra Jadeja could make a comeback into the shorter formats of the game, Siva said it won’t be easy. “Both Ashwin and Jadeja will find it very tough to play in the shorter versions. They didn’t take wickets the way the team management expected. The rival batsmen were playing shots whenever they came on to bowl. They bowled faster after being hit,” he added.
 
 According to Siva, Jadeja’s average bowling speed is 90 km/hr while Ashwin averages between 85 to 90 km/hr. In comparison, both Chahal and Kuldeep clock between 75 to 80 km/hr. “Ashwin and Jadeja use their hand more than their body while delivering. The bowling hand and the back-leg will have to be in sync. They are also unable to bowl slower to obtain maximum turn and bounce,” the former legspinner said.
 
 Siva then said that modern technology can help the Indian bowlers improve. “There was nothing to identify if there was any technical flaw in our action then. There was no video analyst or so many trained coaches to guide you. But now cricket has changed. If a bowler wants to improve, there is no dearth of technological help to work on your shortcomings. For example, Chahal has a good leg break, googly and a flipper. He would have to master the stop spin to get that extra bounce and pace from the wicket, which will make him an even better bowler.”
 
 As far Kuldeep, Siva said: "I told Kuldeep while giving him the Test cap (in the Dharamshala Test against Australia) that I played four years of international cricket, but I want you to play for fourteen years. I also believe that Chahal would be ready for Test at some point of time. Our spin department looks well-sorted as of now."
 
