MUMBAI: Sitting in her first-floor house in  ,   (9), who was in coma for one and a half months after a griddle fell on her head a year ago, looks cheerful. “I go to school and meet friends. My parents take me everywhere,” she says.

 On March 31, 2017, Hazequa, then a Class III student, was returning from tuitions when an iron griddle fell from 20-storey   and hit her head. The griddle broke her skull and fragments pierced her brain. She was taken to Nair hospital where doctors showed little hope. She was then shifted to  , where she was in ICU for two months.
 
 A year later, she is yet to regain her cognitive skills completely, but the family is certain it will happen sooner than later. “Her walking is still wobbly and she has issues with speech and a few other activities. But, if she has defeated death, we are sure she will overcome these difficulties too,” said Faizan, her father. He said Hazequa can eat on her own, bathe and attend classes. Faizan, who owns a garage, said the accident changed their lives. “I didn’t go to my shop for nine months. She was our only priority. My family has gone through a difficult time. It’s a dream to see her go to school, study and play with her siblings,” said Faizan.
  
  
 For neurosurgeon Dr Keki Turel, Hazequa’s case was a unique one, something he had not seen in decades. “It was not unique medically, but in terms of the child’s spirit. For the 40-odd days she was in coma, we never lost hope even once. Age was on her side. Hers is a young brain and the accident fortunately didn’t cause circulatory changes,” he said. The doctor said besides physical rehabilitation, the family must look at her emotional rehabilitation. 
 
 Hazequa’s mother, Sadequa, a home-maker, said her daughter is bright. “As she could not appear for exams, the school calculated her unit and evaluation test marks and promoted her,” she said. Local corporator Rais Shaikh has been a constant support. “He organised a gathering two days ago. Kids from an orphanage were invited and Hazequa cut a cake,” said the mother.
 
  “The perpetrators never came to admit their mistake. But whoever the accused is, we have forgiven them,” said Faizan. Last month, Urdu Markaz Madanpura conferred on Hazequa a bravery award for continuing her education while YMCA gave her an excellence certificate.
 
 
