CHANDIGARH: The land dispute in which the Punjab and Haryana high court had allowed two parties to visit a gurdwara to take oath before Guru Granth Sahib, has finally been settled, with both the parties mutually agreeing to resolve the issue.

 The court commissioner, who was appointed by the high court to visit the gurdwara along with the parties, submitted her report before the court on Wednesday, stating that the respondents took oath before Guru Granth Sahib that they had not received any money from the appellant.
 
 On this, the appellant also informed the high court that the matter can be given an end, as he is ready to give land to the respondents. As both the parties agreed to settle their dispute, the high court disposed of the matter with the directions that the appellant shall hand over the possession of the land to the respondents within 15 days.
 
 During the hearing of the case, the Shiromani Gurdwara Prabandhak Committee ( ) also appeared through its counsel and submitted that as per the tenets of Sikhism, taking of oaths was frowned upon by Guru Gobind Singh, the 10th Guru, and the order of the high court would foster such actions.
 
 On this, Justice   clarified that it was not a case where one party had asserted that he would take oath and the other party should accept it, but it was a case where the appellant had himself stated that if the respondents take an oath in the Gurdwara Sahib, he would withdraw his appeal.
 
 The judge also observed that there are many cases where such arrangements are resorted to outside the court and disputes are decided. The judge, however, appreciated the SGPC for raising concerns on the issue.
 
 Kashmir Singh of Amritsar had claimed that he had paid Rs 4,30,000 to Narinder Pal Singh of the total consideration of Rs 4,60,000. However, Narinder has been claiming that the agreement to sell was a forged document and no consideration had ever been given in this respect.
 
 During hearing of the case on May 3, the high court was informed that the dispute has been settled and both the parties had agreed that if the respondents take an oath before the Guru Sahib that they have not received any money, the appellant would withdraw his appeal. If, on the other hand, the respondents decided not take oath before the Guru Granth Sahib that they had not received money, the appeal shall be allowed, the high court was informed.
 
 On this, the high court had allowed them to visit the gurdwara to settle the case, appointing a woman lawyer Amanpreet Kaur as local commissioner to prepare a report of the entire process.
 
 
