RAMNAGAR (Mandla): On his first visit to a tribal region of MP on Tuesday, Prime Minister   defended the recent ordinance allowing the death sentence for rapists of children below 12 years.

 
 Though the ordinance has been criticised by many experts, who doubt that capital punishment could be a deterrent to child rape, the Prime Minister was unambiguous in justifying the ordinance that strengthened the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act.
 
 
 
 "When Shivraj-ji (chief minister  ) referred to capital punishment provided in the ordinance for rape of minors, I could see you kept clapping and cheering. There is now a government in Delhi that listens to the voice from your heart and takes decisions. So, the Centre has made a provision for capital punishment for this unspeakable crime,” he said in his speech at Ramnagar village on the banks of Narmada.
 
 Addressing a gathering of over 1.5 lakh people, Modi called for a social movement to “make India safe for daughters”. Asking people to make their sons more responsible, he said, “There is a need to give respect to girls within the family and instill a sense of responsibility among boys.”
 
 The Prime Minister launched the   (RGSA) — which aims to make rural bodies self-sustainable, financially stable and efficient — and unveiled a roadmap for development of tribal areas in MP over the next five years.
 
 Under this plan, Rs 2 lakh crore will be spent for development of areas under tribal panchayats. Modi’s speech was aired live in 2.48 lakh gram panchayats across the country.
 
 Well aware that Mandla is a Gond-dominated district, the Prime Minister remarked that a “handful of people” got credit during the freedom struggle, but “a number of tribals who also sacrificed their lives faded into history”.
 
 Governor  , CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan, deputy chief minister of Tripura, Jishnu Dev Varma, Union minister of rural development Narendra Singh Tomar, Mandla MP Phaggan Singh Kulaste and several MP ministers and   veterans were present on the occasion.
 
