Nagpur: Members of Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar National Student’s Federation have protested an “unfair” government resolution (GR) in a letter written to chief minister Devendra Fadnavis two days ago. The GR issued by state government’s Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER) on January 5, 2018, makes it compulsory for students of private colleges availing any government subsidy to serve a government bond in rural, remote and backward areas after completing MBBS course.

 The GR will be applicable to students who apply for first year MBBS in June. At the time of admission, the students will be required to sign a bond with the government that after completion of 4.5 years of MBBS and one year of internship, they will serve for a year in rural areas too.
 
 The rule states that while a government bond is compulsory for all medical students, there are enough medical officers in cities. There are, however, several vacancies of medical officers in rural, remote and tribal areas. Since the government waives 50 per cent tuition fee, and even 100 per cent tuition fees in some cases, beneficiary students should serve the bond to give back to the society once they finish their course.
 
 This rule applies to all those who avail support from tribal development department, social justice and special assistance department, medical research and drugs department, and Vimukta Jati, Nomadic Tribes, Other Backward Class and Special Backward Class Welfare department. In case the students fail to serve a bond, they will be required to repay the scholarship amount given to them along with interest.
 
 “While we welcome the idea of serving in rural and remote areas after completion of our MBBS course, we feel that it is unfair to restrict the bond to only those availing scholarships. Rural postings must be mandated for all, and equality must exist in the practice,” said Dr Siddhant Bharne, president of the federation, calling the rule a threat to social equality.
 
 DMER chief Dr Pravin Shingare strongly stood by the rule, saying that students being supported by the government should also support the government in turn. “Government pays fees to the tune of Rs40 lakh for students. Can they not help serve the poor?” he asked. When asked if the bond should be made compulsory for all students of private medical colleges, he said, “Why should a person paying from his father’s pocket serve the bond? Only those being helped by the government have a duty to serve the government,” he said.
 
 Minority students at present avail a grant in government colleges, which waives their tuition fee, and also offers nominal maintenance fee. In private medical colleges, minority students avail a freeship, which waives their tuition fee.
 
 Box
 
 Quota not followed in AIIMS recruitment?
 
 Members of the federation also alleged that the new advertisement for faculty recruitment to AIIMS Nagpur (dated April 13) provides inadequate reservation for members of SC/ST and OBC category. Of the 38 seats advertised, only seven seats have been reserved for members of SC and OBC, whereas ST finds no mention.
 
 An RTI reply dated March 6, 2018, regarding “details of SC/ST/OBC faculty posts reserved in AIIMS Nagpur” said simply “no such information available”.
 
 Dr Viral Kamdar, medical adviser to Union minister Nitin Gadkari, said that the issue was likely to be clarified in the coming days, adding that Jawaharlal Institute Of Postgraduate Medical Education & Research (JIPMER), which is responsible for the recruitment, functions as per roster. The officials of JIPMER overlooking the academic section were unreachable for comments.
 
 
