MOHALI: The   municipal corporation (MC) has called for expression of interest for construction of   in the city. With this, Mohali city is all set to get its first-ever cycle tracks ready by June end, said municipal commissioner Sandeep  .

 Hans said the civic body had recently allotted work order for preparing detailed project report (DPR) for construction of cycle track that has been received by the MC. The work order was issued to Panchkula-based consultant S T Associates for preparing the DPR for cycle tracks along with junction design, including conducting of survey, feasibility report and detailed estimate as per Indian Roads Congress (IRC) standards.
 
 Soon, work on 2.7km-long cycle track along   (YPS) crossing to Kumbran will start. The detailed project report has been prepared and now estimated costs would be ascertained, Hans said, adding the stretch would be developed on trial basis before the work is done in the entire city. 
 
 “Cycle tracks are a must as per the   concept. We will get this track constructed on trial basis and later spread the concept in the entire city. The construction of cycle tracks section on trial basis will soon start and is likely to be completed by June end. After studying the shortcomings in this track, the entire Mohali city will be covered under the project.” 
 
 The work order for preparing DPR was allotted during the finance and contracts committee (F&CC) meeting at the rate of Rs 18,000/km. 
 
 The company had bid Rs 20,000/km and after negotiations the rate was reduced to Rs 18,000/km, said Mohali mayor Kulwant Singh.
 
 The tracks measuring 2.7km in length starting from YPS crossing will extend upto Kumbran village and then turn towards forest complex in Sector 68.
 
 The mayor said, “The DPR for construction of cycle tacks has been prepared. The company has conducted topographical survey of roads using electronic total station up to right of way, covering features, structures, telephone poles, street lights, falling in the row with its level complete in all respects and submit three sets of drawings along with soft copy in autocad, including all tools, equipment and manpower complete, as per directions of engineer-in-charge.”
 
 He added that the company had prepared the proposal and designing of cycle track as per IRC specifications in order effective and planned in an integrated manner so as to ensure continuous traffic (cyclists) flow for an area as a whole and prepare an overall strategic plan to reduce cyclists conflict with vehicular traffic flow to the minimum.
 
 
