Jaipur: Shree Rajput Karni Sena president Mahipal Singh Makrana on Friday called on all Kshatriya soldiers of the Indian Army to boycott their mess food for a day as a mark protest against the release of Padmaavat.

 Speaking here at a press conference, Makrana said that soldiers defend the borders and honour of the country and should also come forward to save the dignity of Rani Padmini.
 
 “If government doesn’t budge even after the boycott, then they should lay down their arms for a day as a gesture to show their support,” he said here at Rajput Sabha Bhavan while speaking to the media.
 
 Makrna said that anger is boiling up among Rajputs across the country but nobody is willing to pay heed to the sentiments of the community. “I request soldiers that patience of their community is being tested, the honour and dignity of their sisters is at stake and they should show their solidarity and boycott one day mess food,” he said.
 
 When asked whether his comments could be construed as seditious, Makrana replied that he is asking soldiers for peacefully laying down their arms.
 
 “If there is no solution at sight, then it is one of the last resort one may look up to, it is a question of defending the honour and dignity of the nation and all should support us,” he added.
 
 Sena patron Lokendra Singh Kalvi said that he supports the comments of his president. “There will be a Janta curfew when the movie is screened, people will have to decide what side they want to side with. I have not said anything wrong,” he said.
 
 Makrana also threatened CBF chief Prasoon Joshi and warned him not to come to the state. “Let me tell it to Prasoon Joshi that we have not forgotten his betrayal to the community as he stood with the movie producers, he is not welcome to the state,” he said, adding that Rajputs will oppose him in droves when Joshi arrives in the city.
 
 The Sena presidents also decried the movie producers and others who gave their support for the release of the movie in the state.
 
 
