Trichy: After successfully concluding the maiden Times Connect at Srirangam, the second such initiative to provide a platform to connect the public with the authorities was conducted by The Times of India at Thillai Nagar on Saturday. Readers and residents’ welfare organisations who thronged the event shared their grievances with Trichy City Corporation officials who assured them that measures would be taken to develop Tamil Nadu’s cleanest urban centre as a model city. As part of TOI’s citizen engagement drive after the relaunch of the Trichy edition on December 8, 2017, Times Connect was held at KAP Viswanatham Higher Secondary School, Thillai Nagar. Being the most happening streets which are dotted with hospitals and commercial establishments in equal numbers, Thillai Nagar residents largely discussed implementation of the segregated waste collection process and the need to decongest the posh locality. “Spots around the dust bins are not clean. People fail to drop waste inside the bin which keeps the place around dustbins unhygienic,” S Venugopalan, a retired railways employee from Ram Nagar, said. Reacting to the grievance, assistant executive engineer K S Balasubramanian said the civic body is working on a plan to gradually bring down the number of dust bins in the city by expanding door-to-door waste collection. K Krishnaswamy, a resident of Thillai Nagar, pointed out the difficulty being faced by senior citizens and women while crossing the arterial roads in the city. “The city desperately needs either a foot-over-bridge or subway near the government hospital at Puthur and at the railway junction. Without such facility, people struggle a lot to cross the road during peak hours,” Krishnaswamy told the gathering. Corporation officials, participating in Times Connect, said the civic body is working on a user-friendly proposal to install a foot over-bridge near the Chathiram bus stand. The residents pitched for decongestion of Thillai Nagar by implementing and inspecting speed limits for vehicles on road. Not just complaints, residents even came up with positive ideas to make the city clean and green. “Air pollution is calamitous in New Delhi, we should take preventive steps to keep our city free of pollution. Tree plantation can be extensively carried out in places where there is no disturbance from electricity lines,” M L Manoharan, Thillai Nagar resident, said. Highlighting TOI’s recent report on ‘Citizen for Uyyakondan’, an initiative by local people to restore the Uyyakondan canal, residents urged the civic body to rope in the common public during the cleanliness drive. “The corporation can make a short film to create awareness among people to segregate degradable and non-degradable waste. Such awareness films can be played in movie theatres to garner public attention to keep the city clean,” G Umamaheshwari, a dentist from Thillai Nagar, said. 