KOLKATA: Mayor Sovan Chatterjee’s marital discord was the talk of the town on Wednesday while chief minister Mamata Banerjee was away in Darjeeling for the first Hill Business Summit. Trinamool seniors are taken aback with the mayor’s going public on his personal life for the second day, making it sound like a scripted soap opera unfolding in layers in which all the characters doing their bit to spice up the show.

 The story line of this opera has all the elements of a Tollywood production in which protagonist   leaves his home and family that fail to recognise the role of his “friend in need” Baisakhi Bandyopadhyay, who had to bear the party’s wrath because of her proximity to Sovan. Sovan feels for Baisakhi and refuses to dump this university teacher who had accompanied the family to lawyers and chartered accountants when central agencies probing the Narada expose summoned Sovon and his wife.
 
 All the characters other than Baisakhi and her husband Monojit Mandal, including the mayor’s wife Ratna   and his father-in-law   have questions on the role of the new female character much to the embarrassment of the party seniors. “I can’t even think of a person holding the post of a mayor going public on his personal life the way the present incumbent is doing. Why is he dragging the issue when   asked him to concentrate on his work?” a Trinamool senior said. The mayor’s washing his dirty linen in public didn’t even go down well with the party ranks ahead of the rural polls.
 
 For some, like in a soap opera, the mayor episode is also heading for a climax. It became all too apparent after Baisakhi Bandyopadhyay took the mayor’s brief in public and rebutted the claims made by mayor’s wife Ratna Chatterjee. “I know Sovanda since 2011. I had accompanied the Chatterjee couple to Mumbai. We were family friends. I had been to their place and they also reciprocated. When Sovanda was frantically looking for legal advice, I gave him full support and also helped his elder brother to prepare the papers for the ED. The agency didn’t summon wives of Trinamool leaders except her (Ratna). There is problem with her track record,” Bandyopadhyay said.
 
 Sovan’s father-in-law and his godown business partner Dulal Das pointed an accusing finger at Baisakhi. “They had a happy married life till things turned for the worse for my daughter after she entered the scene. Sovan didn’t even let her mother-in-law into his flat following which she fell ill. I ask why his son and daughter are not with him,” Das said. Ratna went a step further and alleged that Baisakhi had put pressure on Sovan against bringing her back from London.
 
 The mayor rubbished all the charges and also expressed his “lack of trust” in his wife that prompted him to go for separation.
 
