MUMBAI: In an interesting turn in the hearing of a plea by a 16-year-old rape survivor from   to abort her 24-week pregnancy, her mother on Monday told the   the baby must be delivered. 

 “I want the child to be born. I shall give the child for adoption,” the mother told a vacation bench of Justices Anil Menon and Bharati Dangre. 
 
 The court heard a petition by the minor, filed through her mother, for the termination of her pregnancy, which is beyond the legally permissible 20-week ceiling. She was raped by a relative. On May 4, the court constituted a medical team of doctors from   for their opinion on if it was safe to terminate the pregnancy. 
 
 When the matter came up for hearing, finding a technical glitch in the petition, the judges summoned the survivor’s mother to ascertain if she was aware of what is stated in it. 
 
 While Rajawadi’s medical board favoured medical termination of pregnancy (MTP), two doctors said it would be better if MTP was done by a tertiary hospital like KEM, better equipped to handle an emergency. So, the judges summoned doctors from KEM “not wanting a situation where there is any hitch” in the MTP operation. 
 
 The mother told the court she was aware that the petition was filed for termination of pregnancy. A KEM doctor said there was no issue in getting MTP done. But the doctor was asked to take the survivor’s mother aside and explain to her the risks of an MTP procedure. Thereafter, when quizzed by the judges, the mother said she wanted the baby to be delivered. The judges were taken aback. 
 
 “You moved court to get the child aborted? You signed the petition,” said Justice Menon. 
 
 The judges said the survivor’s mother has not made up her mind. “The picture is completely different. In the morning we would have not known. Good we called her to court!” said Justice Menon. The survivor’s advocate, Meenaz Kakalia, said, “She is confused. Two different pictures have been given by two sets of doctors.” 
 
 The judges said the survivor’s mother is petrified of the consequences. “It is not possible to push her into this. Let her think about it. Our prime consideration is the safety and health of the child (survivor),” said Justice Menon. The bench has given the woman a day to decide and asked her to talk to the medical social worker of Rajawadi on Tuesday. Posting the matter for May 9, the judges also asked that Kakalia, the doctors and social workers form a team. “You have to guide her. She is not in a position to take a call,” said Justice Dangre.
 
