GURUGRAM: A 52-year-old man fell into an open drain, which is being constructed by Huda near the sector 69-70 crossing. His body was found on Friday morning by residents of nearby societies, who then contacted cops.

 According to police,  , a  , fell into the drain while he was cycling to work. He didn’t spot the open drain in the dark and hurtled around 10 feet into the drain with the  . “He suffered   to his head and nose and bled heavily, which might have led to his death. However, we are yet to receive the autopsy report,” said ASI Charan Singh.
 
  
  
 According to Singh, police have not filed an FIR in the case yet but did start an investigation as per Section 174 of the CrPC. “We haven’t received a complaint yet and do not know whose carelessness led to the accident. Once we figure that out, an FIR will be filed,” said Singh.
 
 Bharti, who was from Bihar, is survived by a wife, a son and two daughters. “We aren’t sure how uncle died. We are waiting for the police probe to give us a better idea,” said Dharmendra Puri, a relative of Bharti.
 
 The drain into which Bharti fell is being constructed as part of the 60-metre road that will link connect Southern Peripheral Road with sectors 69 and 70. When TOI visited the spot, we found out that the drain did not have a barricade and there was a high possibility of accidents at the spot.
 
 Several residents of nearby condominiums said that they had been alerting authorities about the drain being a safety hazard but their pleas had fallen on deaf ears. They also produced multiple emails written to the Huda officials in the same regard.
 
 “A man fell into an open pit and died in this Millennium City. The authorities and the contractor should be charged with murder due to negligence. It is a shame that no one has uttered a word yet. The infrastructure and living conditions in these new sectors are deplorable and need immediate attention,” said   who lives in the area.
 
 Other residents said anyone could have met the same fate as the drain was not barricaded and the road was not lit.
 
 When TOI contacted the Huda administrator, he said, “Check with the chief engineer.” The chief engineer passed the buck to the executive engineer, and she said she didn’t know about the case.
 
 
