HYDERABAD: To take forward another Mass Rapid Transit System (MRTS) towards the IT Corridor, the Telangana State Industrial Infrastructure Corporation ( ) has taken up a feasibility study for the   project. The Mono Rail is proposed to connect Miyapur to Shilparamam and Gachibowli.

 As of now, Hyderabad   I extends up to Miyapur on Corridor I i.e. L B Nagar to Miyapur and Shilparamam via Jubilee Hills on Corridor III i.e. Nagole to Shilparamam. But both the busy corridors from Miyapur to Shilparamam ( ) and Shilparamam to Gachibowli are not being covered. This comes at a time when traffic has drastically increased on these two corridors in the past one decade.
 
 After launch of Metro rail services from Nagole to Miyapur last November, Municipal Administration and Urban Development(MA&UD) minister KT Rama Rao, few months ago asked TSIIC officials to conduct a feasibility study on technical and financial viability of the Mono Rail project.
 
 “ TSIIC has already floated tenders to appoint a consultant to conduct technoeconomic and financial feasibility of the project. We have received four bids and technical evaluation is underway. The appointment is expected to be completed by the end of this month,” TSIIC chief general manager K Shyam Sunder told TOI.
 
 Officials said the feasibility study which will take seven to eight months to complete, includes traffic studies, ridership demand, collecting baseline data up to 2041, finalization of alignment and preparation of tender documents for calling tenders.
 
 “While Hi- Tec City spreads over 151 acres of land, the adjoining places such as Gachibowli, Kondapur, Manikonda and Nanakramguda badly need a mass transport system. Under Strategic Road Development Plan (SRDP), many flyovers have been taken up by the   (GHMC) but they give only partial relief to the traffic congestion in the Hi-Tec City region. Mono rail is being designed to cater to the needs of all surrounding areas in Cyberabad,” a senior municipal administration official said.
 
 Sources said the state government is giving top priority on financial viability and procurement assistance. The   is being implemented under the Public Private Partnership (PPP) mode and L&T is the concessionaire of the project. But the state government is preferring private funding with or without viability gap funding from the state government. If it does not work out, the government wants to take up the project on its own.
 
 
