MARGAO :   turned up at the Nehru Stadium in Fatorda for the first time in more than two years and was delighted with what he saw.
 
    produced the most impressive performance of the season to sweep aside defending champions ATK 5-1 and Kohli, India’s hugely-successful cricket captain and co-owner of the Goan franchise in the Indian Super League (ISL), was left in no doubt that they were laying the foundation for more success to follow.
  
  It won’t be immediate. But should Goa continue to follow the vision with which the   has been launched.
  
  “There would be no better place for kids to come in and have a chance of having a career of their own,” Kohli said.
  
  FC Goa president Akshay Tandon supplemented Kohli’s counsel. “The formal launch happens to be on a day which is crucial for the first team. Believe me, this wasn’t planned. We had thought of this several months ago.   needs to run throughout the year. There has to be development all year round. Regardless of our performances on the field, we had carefully chosen our last home match to announce our plans for Goa for years to come. Our initiatives go beyond just football and ISL,” said FC Goa president Akshay Tandon.
  
  When FC Goa finished at the bottom of the league ladder last season, FC Goa roped in Jill Ferguson to run the Forca Goa Foundation. Ferguson has started working on a long-term plan on how to develop the game at the grassroots. The foundation has partnered with schools across Goa and has reached out to over 1500 children across the state. As part of the ‘Fields of Goa’ project, the foundation has mapped over 200 football fields across the state which they will develop as part of their initiative, and like Ferguson explained, girls too have found a special place in this programme.
  
  All this has, of course, pleased Kohli and he has thrown his weight behind this initiative.
  
  “I myself believe in nurturing talent in different sports at a very young age in our country. This is something that gives me great pleasure to know that I am associated with a foundation that’s going to do the same. Football is a massive part of the culture in Goa and there is no better place to create that awareness and buzz and get that talent which we might miss otherwise. They can come here be turned into world class athletes,” said Kohli.
  
  Kohli would be a mentor for the kids involved in the programme and India’s hugely-successful cricket captain would provide tips on how to tackle challenges that they would encounter later in their career.
  
  “What I have learnt by playing at this level for so long, I can probably present that to the kids at a young age, so when they come to this level, they are already ready for that pressure and embrace difficult times. The most important factor in my sporting career is the way I am capable of embracing pressure situations. If you can incorporate that into young minds, they will handle situations better and results will obviously follow.
  
  “It’s very difficult to get these kind of opportunities in your lives. When we were growing up, we didn’t have organisations or foundations like these. You have to fight your way up the system and get to a level where you understand the importance of that early phase in your life. With the foundation providing it, there is no better place for kids to come in and have a chance of having a career of their own,” said Kohli.
