GURUGRAM: To its dismal record on protecting the environment,   can now add this — it’s the state with the lowest percentage of its geographical area under   in the country. 

  The 2017 Forest Survey of India (FSI) assessment is a dampener on the state government’s premature declaration of success of its   policy, after the survey showed a negligible 0.02% increase in its forest cover. Environmentalists have called the results of the survey a matter of shame.
 
 Punjab, which was earlier the list topper, now has forest cover over 3.65% of its geographical area, compared to Haryana’s 3.59%. Between 2015 and 2017,   managed to increase its the forest cover by 0.13%, while Haryana only managed to clock 0.02%. 
 
  
 Moreover, Haryana has only 1,588 sq km of forest, the lowest among all Indian states. Some union territories that have lesser forest area than Haryana still maintain better percentage of their geographical area under forest cover. Compared to Punjab, there is more very dense forest (canopy density of 70% and above) and open forest (canopy density between 10-40%) in Haryana, while its moderately dense forest (canopy density between 40-70%) is 40% lower than that of Punjab. 
 
 Ajay Kumar Saxena, the programme manager (forestry) at the NGO Centre for Science and Environment (CSE), blamed the falling forest cover on diversion of forests to agriculture, and lack of efforts to maintain recorded forests. “Historically, diversion of forest land to agriculture has been a major reason for low forest cover in states like Haryana and Punjab. To add to it, there’s hardly any effort by the government to have recorded forests, which is very important for their protection. For instance, it’s shocking that even Mangar Bani is yet to be recognised as a deemed forest,” he told TOI.
 
 Highlighting another important aspect, Saxena said, “The survey uses satellite imagery that includes all types of plantation in its record. So we are not sure if even the 3.59% attributed as forest in Haryana is actually so. This, though, applies to all states.” 
 
 Some experts highlighted that with three neighbouring NCR states together having less than 5% of their geographical area under forests, it can have disastrous consequences for the NCR at large.
 
 Vivek Kamboj of environmental NGO Haryali, said, “There is nothing to rejoice in the 2017 assessment of FSI. It has made Haryana infamous as the state with the least forest cover in India. Moreover, with all three neighbouring states of Delhi — Haryana, Punjab and Rajasthan — having less that 5% of their geographical area under forest cover, the situation is disastrous not only for these states, but also for the capital, as it depends on its neighbouring states for prevention of desertification, groundwater recharge and many more factors.”
 
 
