BENGALURU: The   has directed   (BU) to disburse the money it owes to its new branch-outs – Bengaluru Central and Benglauru North Universities — by March 31. 

 A budgetary meeting of the department, presided over by higher education minister Basavaraj Rayareddi, on January 12 discussed expediting the fund-transfer process. The issue has been hanging fire since BU was trifurcated in July 2017.
 
 Confirming this, Prof B K Ravi, registrar (administration) told TOI: “The minister has directed us to transfer the money before the financial year ends. Last year, the government ordered a transfer of Rs 10 crore to   (BCU) and Rs 15 crore to   (BNU) from the coffers of BU.”
 
 “We have already transferred Rs 5 crore to each varsity. The remaining amount will be transferred within the deadline,” Ravi added.
 
 
 
 
 BCU had told the department that the delay in transferring funds is hampering infrastructure development work, appointment of teachers to academic boards and starting of new departments at its campus in Central College.
 
 However, M S Reddy, registrar (administration), BNU, said the delay hasn’t really hindered functioning of the varsity, which is based in Kolar. “We have already sent a proposal to the government for the remaining budget requirements for academic year 2018-19. We will begin operations at the PG Centre in Kolar and eight new undergraduate departments as well. Our current administration office is running out of Karnataka State Open University premises, while planning is under way to build a 172-acre campus for the varsity in Kolar,” Reddy added.
 
 
 
 
 Appointment of teaching and non-teaching staff for Bengaluru Central and North Universities could see further delays, with confusion prevailing over departments at the two new varsities. 
 
 The two new branch-outs of BU are expected to receive 100 teaching and non-teaching staff each from the parent university as per a   headed by S A Kori.
 
 However, sources in BU said with ambiguities over departments prevailing in both new varsities, it’d take time to figure out how many staff members need to be appointed immediately. “There isn’t much clarity on how many teachers are required, which are the departments they are needed for and if they are required right away,” said BU officials.
 
 
