GURUGRAM:   residents have moved court against the state housing board’s attempt to auction a plot that, they claimed, was earmarked for developing park and community facilities in the society.

 On February 1, the   issued a notification to auction the 553.67-square yard plot at a reserved price of Rs 5.5 crore for residential purpose. 
 
 The bidding has been scheduled for February 21.
 
 But, Gurgaon Citizens’ Council (GCC) filed a petition in a city court on Tuesday against the board, seeking a stay on the proposed auction. Taking up the petition, the court has issued a notice to senior officials, including chief administrator, estate manager and executive engineer of the board. The next date of hearing is on Friday.
 
 “The plot was earmarked as a park but later the housing board constructed its office on the land. And now the board is ready to auction it off under the residential category,” said GCC president RS Rathee.
 
 The Saraswati Vihar colony on M G Road was developed as per the Haryana Housing Board Act, 1971, with the licence from the director, the town and country planning department. Currently, over 25,000 residents live in around 3,500 houses in the colony.
 
 Another GCC official said, “The housing board is going to auction the plot, which is illegal and against the   and Regulation of Urban Areas Act 1975 and the ‘composite norms’ approved by the department of town and country planning.”
 
 Balraj Sharma, one of the residents, said, “Normally, in any licensed colony, 55 % of the area can be used for residential purposes while 45% of the land has to be kept for community facilities, including roads, street lights, parks and other utility services. But here in Saraswati Vihar, over 75% of the area has been used for housing purposes. There is no proper park and recreational facility and utility services are not enough to meet the needs of the residents.”
 
 However, Jawahar Yadav, the chairman of the housing board, said the land was currently occupied by the board and its staffers, who were using it for residential purpose. “When there is already construction on the land, it cannot be used as a park,” he argued.
 
 
