PUNE: Sadiya Anwar Shaikh, who was detained in south Kashmir on January 25 on suspicion of being a suicide bomber, said on Monday that she was needlessly dragged into the matter and that false reports were carried regarding her purpose of visit.

 Sadiya, 18, who returned to Pune on Sunday, was accompanied by her mother as she spoke to reporters here. She said she had gone to a friend’s place in south Kashmir to seek admission to a pharmacy course and was surprised to read reports mentioning her name as a “suspected suicide bomber”. After reading the reports, she approached the Avantipora police checkpost in Kashmir and identified herself as the girl mentioned in the reports, she said. For the next few days, the police kept questioning her about the purpose of her visit to Kashmir. “I was never arrested or charged with committing any offence. I was given a clean chit at the end of the questioning process and allowed to return home,” she added.
 
 In 2015, the state anti-terrorism squad (ATS) in Pune, with the help of her parents and a social organisation, had de-radicalised Sadiya following reports that she had come in contact with some Islamic State (IS) sympathisers on a social networking site. “I did commit some mistakes in the past. But I do not wish to look back again,” she said.
 
 According to Sadiya, she and her mother took a flight to Srinagar on January 16. “I decided to stay at my friend’s house till the admission process was completed. My mother returned to Pune. On January 25, I called my mother on reading a report mentioning my name as a suspected suicide bomber. My mother told me that the Pune police had visited our Yerawada residence. She asked me to return home at the earliest,” she said.
 
 “After I approached the J&K police, investigating agencies questioned me, particularly about the reason for my visit to Kashmir. They checked my documents and cellphone numbers. On finding that I do not have links with any person there, I was allowed to return to Pune,” she added. Sadiya’s mother said, “Someone has conspired against us by planting false news.”
 
