He wanted to play for the Indian   Team, but destiny had different plans for  . The Punjabi singer wanted to represent India, but an injury changed everything for the singer, who used to be a fast bowler. In Delhi recently for a gig, Harrdy spoke to us about his cricketing days, the Delhi audience and why music videos these days need to be a complete package.

 
 
 His fans know him for songs like Backbone, Naah and  , but not many know that Harrdy was also a cricketer. "I played for around 10 years. I have played for the U-19 cricket team with  . He was my roommate, and I have also played with   and Ishant Sharma. But in 2006, I had an elbow injury. I was a fast bowler and the injury was on my right arm. I tried to get treatment here, but kuch hua nahi," he says. 
 
  
  
 Harrdy says, "I then decided to go to Australia to see good doctors and physiotherapists. I got a student visa and thought if my treatment is successful, I will come back to India and start playing again. Warna padhai karke, wahin settle ho jaunga. I was there for 11 months and in that period, I met a lot of doctors, par kuch hua nahi. Wahan taxi bhi chalayi."
 He adds, "I have been singing since I was four. Jab taxi mein koi nahi hota tha, tab gaata rehta tha. During that time, IPL had started and all those who were junior to me, unka bhi selection ho gaya. I felt really bad. I could have easily played in IPL." 
 
  
  
 Talking about how he took up singing as a full-time career, Harrdy says, "Maine ghar pe bina bataye return ticket li India ki, socha ki agar ghar waale maan gaye toh reh jaunga, nahi maane toh wapas aa jaunga. Maine aake sabse pehle yahi try kiya ki mujhe IPL khelna hai chaahe kuch ho jaye. Then I met a Sri Lankan physiotherapist and started playing for Ranji, but during those matches, phir injury ho gayi. I left cricket then, and maine socha ab mujhe singing karni chahiye. In 2010, I started learning music again and continued learning till 2011. I finally came up with my first album in 2012. Sometimes I do regret not being able to play for India because I feel, mere coaches ko bhi yahi lagta hai ki main khel sakta tha India ke liye. I had the potential, but it is all destiny." 
 
  
  
 
 
 Harrdy keeps performing in Delhi, Noida and Gurgaon, and the singer finds the crowd in Delhi very energetic. "Delhi has been amazing since the day I started. Ever since 'Soch' came out, I think people in Delhi have loved me more than people in Punjab.   mein bhi log pyaar karte hain, but most of my performances take place in Delhi. I live in Delhi most of the time, so this place is like my second home now. 'Delhi ka crowd thoda zyada energetic hai, zyada pyaar dikhate hain jab bhi perform karta hoon'. I can feel that connection with the crowd here," he says. 
 
  
  Harrdy Sandhu at Barakhamba Road
 
 
 
 Whether it is six-pack abs, luxury cars and exotic locations, Harrdy’s videos do not seem any less than a song from a movie. But the singer says that the first thing that works for the audience is the audio, although visual appeal is also important. "It should be a package, aapka audio bhi badhiya hona chahiye, and your video should also work. I have seen so many videos with high budgets and a not-so-good audio. Par ab log visually zyada consume karte hain music ko. Agar audio achha hai, video achha hai aur aap bhi dikhne mein achhe ho, toh aapki fan following bhi achhi ho jati hai," he says. 
 
 
 
  
 
