NEW DELHI: A day after arresting two teachers of a Bawana school and a tutor of a coaching centre in the same area for allegedly leaking the   Class XII Economics exam questions, Delhi Police quizzed the principal of the school on Monday after it came to light that the leaked question paper had reached the exam centre (the Bawana school) two hours before the March 26 test - 
  

 The principal claimed that the video recording device connecting all 15   cameras in the school wasn't working. CBSE official K S Rana, suspended on Sunday for laxity in supervision at the centre, would be quizzed on Tuesday.
 
 The accused might have been involved in leaking CBSE question papers earlier too, police sources said. They aren't discounting the role of a syndicate involving some Board officials. The possibility of other question papers having been leaked this year has also not been ruled out.
 
 
 
 
 
 The Delhi crime branch is also focusing on the module that leaked the 
  . The paper was circulated in four WhatsApp groups each comprising more than 60 members each. Cops contacted a complainant who had sent the copies of the leaked papers to the CBSE chairperson, but he could not provide details about the source of the leak. A tutor and some schools in west Delhi are under the scanner.
 
 According to protocol, question papers are stored at government banks a day before the exam and taken to the centres by CBSE officials called 'custodians'. The papers are kept in custody of the principal of a school (exam centre) and the seal is broken only after students are seated at the hall. However, it was found that the arrested teachers of Mother Khazani Convent School, Bawana had met three students on the school premises an hour before the Economics exam.
 
 The 55-year-old principal told the cops during interrogation that though there are 15 CCTV cameras installed in the school, the video recording device connecting these cameras is non-functional.
 
 During interrogation, the two school teachers,   and Rishabh, told the cops that apart from forwarding the paper to their friend  , they had asked the students to reach the school two hours before the exam and take the papers from them on Whatsapp. They had also helped the students solve some of the questions that would get them the pass marks. After this, they had helped the students board a bus and reach their exam centres at another nearby school.
 
 The principal was asked as to how the students were allowed to enter the school premises when the invigilators were present. The cops are also trying to find out how the paper had reached the school two hours before the exam while by protocol it should reach with an hour in hand.
 
 The logs of the government bank where the papers of class XII and class X were stored is being checked to find out the timing of the releases. The suspended CBSE official K S Rana would be asked to explain the deviation, cops said.
 
 
