Ujjain: FIR was lodged against 50 Congress workers, including civic body leader of opposition Rajendra Vashistha, for rioting during their   against shortage of water in Ujjain on Friday.

 The agitation turned tense after the protesters allegedly stopped mayor’s vehicle and broke the earthen pots outside her residence-cum-office.
 
  Meena Jonwal had called a meeting of mayor-in-council (MIC) members at her residence-cum-office when an argument ensued between leaders of both the major political parties over   and release of contaminated water of Kanh river into Kshipra.
 
 To this, around 50 people led by Vashistha started protest outside the venue by holding empty earthen pots in their hands. After the mayor did not come outside the residence to receive the memorandum, the protesters started shouting slogans and also broke the earthen pots.
 
 They also allegedly stopped the mayor from getting into her car to leave the spot. On this, the mayor reached Madhav Nagar police station and staged an agitation with her party leaders and supporters.
 
 SP Sachin Atulkar reached the spot. Later, the police registered a case under Sections 147, 353, 452 of IPC and 3(2) (VA) of ST/SC Act against Vashistha, Azad Yadav, Maya Trivedi, Aatmaram Malviya, Rahim Shah Lala, Himmatsingh Devda, Jitendra Tilkar, Chetan Yadav and others.
 
 “A case for using derogatory words against a member of ST/SC, rioting and disturbing the government work has been registered at Madhav Nagar police station against the protesters,” DSP (AJAKS) Dharmraj Suryawanshi said.
 
 Later, Congress workers led by the city president Anantnarayana Meena met ADG V Madhukumar and handed over a memorandum to lodge a complaint in the case.
 
 “We reached the office not the residence to meet Jonwal and when she did not give time to the people, they broke the earthen pots. The mayor did not take out time to meet the people suffering from water crisis and instead lodged an FIR against them. This is dictatorship,” Vashistha said.
 
 
