Visakhapatnam: The Girijan Cooperative Corporation’s (GCC’s) plans of collaborating with   to promote its products will soon bear fruit, with the retail giant placing an initial order of   products worth Rs 10 lakh which it would begin to sell from the third week of March.

 Walmart would initially sell GCC products like  , Nannari and Bilwa Sherbat in its outlets and would later introduce other products too, it is learnt. Walmart will first introduce GCC products at its store in Rajahmundry and later in Hyderabad before selling them in other states.
 
 Nannari Sherbat was introduced by GCC a couple of years ago and had sold around six lakh bottles in the first year. 
 
 Though the product entered the market late last year, it reported good sales. GCC sales of Araku Coffee (200 grams pack) crossed 1.5 lakh packets this year to achieve more than Rs 16 crore revenue, sources said. 
 
 While the sales of its instant Araku Coffee sachets (2 grams and 10 grams) are on an upward swing with the first batch of 1.75 lakh sachets sold out within one month of being introduced, the GCC is now going to sell the next batch of 1.75 lakh coffee sachets, its managing director Akella Ravi Prakash told TOI.
 
 GCC is expecting sales of around Rs 5 crore to Rs 10 crore through global retail giant Walmart in the next five to six years, sources said. Moreover, Walmart has plans to expand its network in AP too as it has been searching for a suitable place in Visakhapatnam and other states.
 
 GCC had achieved Rs 242 crore revenue in the 2016-17 fiscal, an improvement from the Rs 183 crore figure of the 2015-16 fiscal. 
 
 This fiscal, however, the cooperative society managed to achieve only Rs 230 crore turnover till the end of January as against its target revenue of Rs 317 crore. 
 
 “Due to a slowdown in the market due to various factors including GST, we managed to achieve only Rs 230 crore turnover. However, the procurement of raw material is starting now. We are expecting another Rs 40 crore to Rs 50 crore turnover in February and March to achieve a total turnover of Rs 275 crore,” GCC MD Akella Ravi Prakash said.
 
 The retail giant will first introduce GCC products at its Rajahmundry store before selling it at its stores in other cities across the country, GCC officials said
 
 
