CHENNAI: The DMK-led alliance in Tamil Nadu is likely to be strengthened further with the   in Hyderabad on Friday resolving to work with the   “inside and outside the Parliament”.

 The CPM leadership’s decision comes at a time when   is poised for a crucial political battle on a range of issues engaging the state. The Cauvery protests have come in handy for the DMK to consolidate the opposition front, including the CPI and CPM.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 Under its working president M K Stalin, the DMK has loosely sewed up a secular front on the lines of the 2004 Democratic Progressive Alliance that included CPI and CPM.
 
 For the CPI and CPM, the last few years have been a battle for survival in Tamil Nadu. In the past, the comrades had a decent presence in the state legislative assembly and also managed to send representatives to Parliament. As part of grand alliances led by DMK or  , the left performed fairly well.
 
 But, whenever they struck a lonely path, like in the 2014 Lok Sabha elections or tried to experiment, like in the 2016 assembly election when they were a part of the DMDK, MDMK, VCK inclusive People’s Welfare Front, the outcome was disastrous. They drew nil in both elections.
 
 “The left should have no reservations in aligning with the Congress. The real danger now is communalism,” said Tamil Nadu   Committee spokesman A Gopanna. “Only an united front against   can defeat them,” agreed DMK spokesman T K S Elangovan.
 
 In July 2008, the Left Front officially pulled out of the UPA, opposed as they were to the Indo-US civilian nuclear deal.
 
 In Tamil Nadu, they snapped ties with DMK, which was a constituent of the UPA, and moved closer to AIADMK. The rift between the Left parties and the DMKCongress combine widened with the 2G and coal scams. While the uneasy relationship with former AIADMK leader J Jayalalithaa continued for a while, after her death in December 2016, the CPI has been inching closer to the Stalin-led DMK.
 
 With the CPM leadership now formally endorsing a ‘working relationship’ with the Congress, the left parties, struggling to make a comeback in the state, may get a fresh lease of life.
 
 
