MANALI: As the peak tourist season is starting from April, the district administration here on Thursday held a meeting with officials of all departments, panchayat pradhans and stakeholders to deal with the problems like traffic, law and order, parking, overcharging and effective compliance of the   order.

  DC   directed all departments to create a festive atmosphere in Manali and streamline everything for the convenience of tourists. He said traffic congestion and long jams have earned notoriety as far as Manali is concerned, so dealing with traffic and law and order will be the main challenge. He directed officials to search the possibility of developing a local website, more efficient and accurate than Google maps, so that people get real time traffic updates of all roads and tourist destinations.
 
 “Extra police force, including home guard jawans, would be deployed in the town and tourist places from April 1 for smooth running of traffic and maintaining law and order. The jawans would be trained to help tourists in all possible way. There will be “no honking zones” in Manali and police will run special awareness campaigns on different subjects every week,” he maintained.
 
 After confirmation of tourism and civil aviation deputy director B C Negi that Hamta pass was having mobile toilets and dustbins, the DC said it would be opened to tourists from coming Sunday. He said currently 200 vehicles are allowed to go to Hamta daily but efforts were being made to increase this limit. “The BRO is clearing snow from the   highway on a war footing. Once they clear it and give us green signal, we need 15 to 20 more days to establish mobile toilets, dustbins and make adequate parking space before allowing tourists to Rohtang,” he said.
 
 Yunus asked police to deal politely with tourists and requested taxi operators to not overcharge tourists and keep a check on misbehaviour. Pradhans from nearby panchayats requested DC to find way to dispose of the garbage and bottles that are piling up everywhere. Possibility of installing street lights on roads in villages near Manali was also discussed.
 
 “We shall also ensure strict compliance of the NGT order at Rohtang. We should also think about the possibility of expansion of the existing Mall, which is becoming congested. More lamp posts will be established here. A 100-ft-high monumental National Flag and a selfie-wall showcasing local culture will be established in the town,” he said.
 
 
