Coimbatore: The estimated loss in third party premium (TPP) income, from uninsured two-wheelers, which stood at Rs 5,641 crore in 2015-16, would go up to about Rs 52,000 crore in 2024-25 if the uninsured rate of 75% continues in the segment, according to insurance regulator IRDAI. “Post adjustment for inflation of 5%, this comes to around 80% of the entire motor insurance portfolio of 2015-16. The overall loss in premium is much more if we account premium for own damage cover also,” according to IRDAI’s quarterly journal. According to General Insurance Council of India, 60% of vehicles plying on Indian roads in 2015-16 were uninsured. Most of the uninsured vehicles are two-wheelers and 75% of the total two-wheelers plying on Indian roads are uninsured. Incidentally, just five states — Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka and Kerala alone contribute almost 50% of the motor insurance policies whereas the rest of 24 states and 7 UTs (union territories) contribute the remaining 50%. Interestingly, the ICR (incurred claims ratio) for TP insurance of two-wheeler is the lowest among all classes of vehicles. It was not more than 68% for any of the years between 2009-10 and 2012-13. In general insurance, ICR gives a fair indicator about profitability of a line of business. “Thus, concluding that two-wheeler insurance even ‘act only’ is draining or unprofitable is quite not supported with data available,” IRDAI’s journal said. The main reason for the poor insurance coverage is that the ticket size or premium per policy of two-wheeler for comprehensive as well as TP insurance is comparatively small. The median premium for ‘mandatory insurance’ of a two-wheeler is only Rs 804. “Thus, it requires greater effort to earn same volume of premium compared with other class of vehicles like cars etc,” the regulator said. “Distribution channel plays an important role in renewal of business. Most of the new two-wheelers sold are insured through intermediaries who are tied to the two-wheeler showroom,” it said. “After one or two years most owners are not in touch with these showrooms as they go to local garages for servicing etc. For renewals after one year not much effort is made by these distributors as they are happy with the captive and higher ticket size insurance,” IRDAI said. “Another analysis shows that more than 25% of policies written during 2015-16 were that of new vehicles and more than 70% of policies were associated with less than 6-year-old vehicles. This is an indication of the number of uninsured vehicles plying on roads,” IRDAI chairman T S Vijayan wrote in the journal.  Motor insurance is one of the major segments of general insurance sector. Motor contributed almost 39% of the total general insurance gross direct premium collections in 2016-17. The segment assumes significance also because of TP insurance which is mandated by law.