HYDERABAD:   is the second most poor performing state in curbing corruption in availing public services, according to a CMS-India Corruption Study 2018. The report released on Friday revealed that   has been ranked at number four in the corruption perception index.

 
 
  
  
 
 Alok Srivastava of CMS India told TOI: “This is the 12th round of the study. We have used different sub indicators to arrive at a score. Tamil Nadu topped the table of corrupt states. The states with high composite score are poor performing in the fight against corruption. These poor performing states, including Telangana and Andhra Pradesh, need better enforcement. Punjab and Gujarat are the other poor performing states. Rajasthan, Karnataka and Delhi have been identified as ‘moderate’ performers.”
 
 The study also found that states like Maharashtra, Delhi, Gujarat, Bihar and Telangana have witnessed higher citizen activism, whereas Andhra Pradesh, West Bengal, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh have less activity of civil society fighting against corruption.
 
 During the study in Telangana, 73 per cent of households said they had bribed officials for availing public services in past one year. Overall, also around 75 per cent households across the country perceived that the level of corruption in public services has either increased or remained the same during the past one year. However, when compared to 2005, households experiencing bribery while availing public services has almost halved.
 
 Transport, police, housing, land records, health and hospital services are considered to be most corrupt wings. Interestingly seven per cent of respondents said they bribed to get Aadhaar card, while three per cent said they bribed to procure voter ID card.
 
 “To get or renew a driving license, registering a complaint, registering an FIR, getting PDS ration card, admitting as inpatients, school admission and correction of inflated bills are specific services in which bribes were taken,” said Srivastava.
 
 In Telangana, 40 per cent feel that the Union government is committed to curbing corruption in public services, but in AP, people said they have less confidence in the Union government for reducing corruption.
 
