BENGALURU: Karnataka   officials had written at least eight letters to the state government in a little over a year, requesting an upgrade to security at its headquarters and introduction of pat-down checks.

 The missives, the first of which was sent in January 2017, cited state and national intelligence alerts that the watchdog was on the radar of terrorists and anti-national elements. The last three letters stated that the door-frame metal detector installed at the entrance was defunct and needed to be replaced.
 
 An armed complainant on Wednesday allegedly stabbed the   P  , highlighting the porous security at the ombudsman’s office.
 
 The letters, some of which were accessed by TOI, were addressed to the home department and office of city police commissioner. However, none of them elicited any response, sources in the Lokayukta said.
 
 “It is painful to say that security issues for an institution like the Lokayukta have been ignored,” one source said. “Should we write eight letters to the government, saying the security system should be upgraded and there has to be manual frisking? Forget about upgrading the security system, the government did not even bother to sending its officials to check out the situation.”
 
 The source went on to say, “The letters categorically stated that elaborate security was required due to terror threats. The government royally ignored our pleas and did nothing on the letters.”
 
 
 
 
 Anew walk-through metal detector was installed at the entrance of the Lokayukta office on Thursday. Manual frisking was also initiated and a woman police constable from the City Armed Reserve was seen wielding a hand-held metal detector. But there were no armed police officials or guards anywhere on the premises.
 
 
 
 
 Tejraj Sharma had visited the Lokayukta office on Tuesday too, Lokayukta officials said. “He was upset that three cases he had filed had been closed,” a staff said. “We told him there was no evidence to prove the allegations. But he stormed out saying he will meet Lokayukta himself the next day.”
 
 Sources said: “Sharma wanted to bag a tender to supply furniture to government schools and colleges in June last year. The tender was awarded to the lowest bidder and a livid Sharma had a showdown with officials then.”
 
 
 
 
 Lokayukta Justice P Vishwanath Shetty, who was stabbed in his chambers and later underwent multiple surgeries, continued to be stable in the CCU at Mallya Hospital, doctors said. Doctors say the Justice Shetty sat up for a while on Thursday and even glanced through some newspapers. They said no decision has been taken on his discharge.
 
 Apart from other surgeries on Wednesday, blood collected in his chest had to be removed and he also had surgery to repair a tendon on his right hand.
 
 “On Wednesday, a procedure was done to arrest bleeding in his intestine,” a doctor said.
 
 “He cannot have either solid or liquid food for some more time. His condition is stable. He is on IV fluids.” 
 
 
 
 
 A day after Lokayukta Justice P Vishwanath Shetty was stabbed in his chambers, the chief justice of the   high court constituted a security committee for the high court.
 
 The committee comprises senior judges Justice L   and Justice Ravi Malimath. The registrar (administration) is the presenting officer of the committee.
 
 The committee will look into various aspects relating to security in and around the high court premises at the principal bench in Bengaluru and the circuit benches in Dharwad and  . The committee will also look into security issues at the residences of the chief justice and other judges.
 
 
