PUNE: The government has decided to rope in private   to strengthen its reporting system for tuberculosis ( )  .

 “This is another way of tracing   cases of TB. Private doctors are already doing this. By involving chemists, the Union government aims to strengthen this reporting system further. We have already initiated the process of roping in chemists in the state,” state tuberculosis officer Sanjeev Kamble told TOI.
 
 The objective here is clear. If a patient comes with a prescription for anti-TB drugs, the chemist will notify the case to the local health authorities.
 
 “As per the Schedule H1, which was brought under the Drugs and Cosmetics Act in 2014, the chemists are mandated to keep record of anti-TB drugs and high-end antibiotics sold to patients. That includes maintaining record of patient’s name, address, drugs dispensed and treating doctor’s name. They only need to report this data to the local health authorities so that missing cases can be traced,” Kamble said.
 
  
 The Union health ministry made it mandatory for private medical practitioners to report TB cases to health authorities on May 7, 2012. “But we cannot deny the possibilities of having some gaps in this system. Hence, involving chemists will help,” Kamble said.
 
 Manjiri Gharat, vice-president of Indian Pharmaceutical Association, said this is not for the first time that the country’s chemists have been roped in to fight TB. “The Centre had signed a memorandum of understanding with us in 2012 to train chemists as DOTS (Directly Observed Treatment, Short Course) provider so that a patient takes his or her daily dose by visiting the neighbourhood chemist. In Maharashtra, we have trained over 1,000 chemists, but the move faced legal hurdles in other states,” Gharat said.
 
 “We are yet to devise methods about reporting TB patients’ data to the health authorities. Some chemists have computerised data. Hence, for them collating and compiling data of TB drugs dispensed under schedule H1 is easy. But many chemists keep manual data, making the reporting of the data difficult,” Gharat added.
 
 There are 8,000 chemists in the state. “We will devise a mutually convenient mechanism to get patient data from chemists. We can send health workers to them if they find it difficult to send the data to the local authorities,” Kamble said.
 
 
