The sprawling campus of   (SCIE) was buzzing with enthusiasm on a recent sunny afternoon, as the vibrant community of foreign students queued up to cast their votes for the   Elections 2018. When we went inside the main building of the college, we saw candidates vociferously campaigning to appeal to student voters. While some leaders voiced the need for country-specific cultural programmes on campus, others spoke openly about building a strong support group for students hailing from  , Iran and the Middle East. In this edition of What’s Up Campus?, we talk about how this election is instrumental for change within the international students community and what will be the policies of the winning candidates. Read on... 

  
  
 Over 300 international students voted in this year’s election. The number of voters has increased by 10 per cent compared to last year, a clear indication that students are actively participating in the democratic process. Another important aspect of this election was the diversity of voters, who came from Asia, Africa and European countries. They want their voice to be heard and a leader who will represent them at the council. What is interesting to note here is that the voters not only came from different branches of Symbiosis, but also from various colleges from across Pune, to cast their votes and support their favourite candidates. 
 
 Explaining the election process, supervisor of international students events at Symbiosis,   said, “This year, 45 candidates from different countries submitted their nominations for the elections. We interviewed them and shortlisted 11, out of which six were selected for the council. After the voting process, the founding president of the institute, Dr S B Mujumdar, nominated five candidates and two were nominated by the principal director Dr Vidya Yeravdekar. Following this, the council was constituted and the oath taking ceremony will happen next week. The present council has representation from countries like Nigeria, Zambia, Chad,  , Afghanistan and the Middle East.”
 
 
  
  
 Since several students come from non-democratic and war-torn countries like   and Afghanistan, election is a platform for them to learn about the election process and understand how democracy functions. One of the candidates of this election, Sosten Chimimba from Malawi, said, “In many African countries, including mine, we don’t often get to participate in elections. To voice our opinions openly and to be elected by the people is revolutionary for us. Needless to say, standing for this election has taught me so much about democracy.” A student voter from Uganda, Omegere John Palnck said, “This is my first election experience and it certainly feels empowering to be a part of this process. I never thought that my voice also has the power to bring about change. I will take this experience home and tell my friends and family about it for sure.”
 While some learned lessons about democracy and the importance of participating in an election, others found a platform to vote for change. One of the candidates from Ethiopia, Abdullahi Salah Ali said, “Most of the African students in Pune want inclusivity and acceptance by others. As a candidate who will be representing my community, my responsibility is to address this issue openly and understand what needs to be done to solve it.”
 
  
  
 
 In the evening, the counting was over and it was time for the college authorities to declare the results. Students lined up outside the administrative building to know who their leaders are. Winning by 225 votes, second year BSc medical technology student   stood first, followed by BTech student   from Chad who won the second position by 202 votes. Congratulations were the order of the evening, as students and candidates celebrated the victory. Each one had different policies to implement and this is just the beginning of their dream of becoming leaders.
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  (Kenya) 
 Second year BSc medical technology from Symbiosis
 
 "I am overwhelmed with the election results. Now i have to ensure i deliver on the expectations. I am the first winner from my country and my agenda is to unite the Nigerian community and work towards inclusivity. this election has changed my life."
 
  
  
 
 
  (Chad) 
 B Tech student
 "Now that elections are over, it is time to work for the African community. We have a lot of potential and I would work towards forming groups for my community so that they feel safe talking about the issues they face in Pune. I’m really glad to be chosen as their leader."
 
  
  
 "Election is about voting for change. I want my college to have country specific cultural events so that people from different cultures can observe each other’s traditions. I would like this to be addressed through this election."
 —Grishma Thapa, Nepal
 
 
 
 "I come from bahrain where such enthusiasm for elections is not seen. this is what i love about india. it is so diverse and everyone has the right to voice their opinions. the students council elections has taught me how to become a leader and speak my mind openly without fear." —Sara Husain, Bahrain
 
 
  
 "The elections allowed me to take up issues that college students from african countries face and address them on a democratic platform. it was really fun campaigning for the elections on campus and reaching out to different communities."
 —Cosmos Anthoniamary, Nigeria
 
 
 
  
 
 "Democracy has never been given a chance to grow in Afghanistan. extreme forces have represented my country. Here, my fellow countrymen and I have learned about the functionalities of free and fair elections." —Obaidullah Yaftaly, Afghanistan
 
