NEW DELHI: The   of a security guard at a convent school in Seemapuri has been solved with the arrest of his girlfriend and her male friend. The  , Anita, claimed that she had grown bored of her relationship with the victim, Devi Lal (42), and decided to kill him to start life afresh. She had also planned to rob him presuming that he had a lot of money.

 Lal was found dead with blunt injuries on his head and his wrist slit. His mobile phone and the locks of the school gate were missing to make it look like a burglary attempt gone awry.
 
 “The killers were tracked down by scanning the call details of the victim. It was found that he had talked with the woman a few hours before the incident. During questioning, she admitted to having planned the murder,” said DCP (Shahdara) Nupur Prasad.
 
 The 28-year-old accused woman said that she was in a relationship with Lal for a few years. He had gifted her expensive items, got her a job and even proposed marriage. In the meantime, the woman met another man, Sajid Khan, a resident of Shahdara. Khan had also promised to marry her so that she could look after his six children. They then hatched a plan to kill him and rob his money.
 
 On March 3, Lal called the woman and she offered to meet him inside the school at night. After she entered the school premises, she helped Khan sneak in as well. While she spoke to Lal, Khan hid in a room nearby.
 
 After a few minutes, the woman took Lal near the room and Khan hit him on his head with an iron rod. When Lal fell unconscious, the woman slit his wrist to make it look like a robbery attempt. She took Rs 61,500 that he had collected from the tenants of the plot and his mobile phone before fleeing. They removed the locks of the school gate and threw them on the way.
 
 It was found that the CCTV cameras at the school were switched off after the students had left the premises.
 
  The school authorities told police that they did this to save power. Action may be taken against them as well.
 
 
