HYDERABAD: Why did K   launch the   (TRS) in 2001? The popular explanation is that he was miffed with the then chief minister   for not giving him a ministerial berth and making him a ‘mere’ deputy speaker. Chandrasekhar Rao busted that myth at a public meeting attended by lakhs of people at   on August 20, 2017. Having been a minister before in the cabinet, it was not that slight that made him quit in 2001, he said. “As a matter of fact, a strong decision had been taken in 1996 itself to launch a sustained movement to achieve a separate   state,” Chandrasekhar Rao said at the meeting held at the launch of the Sriram Sagar Rejuvenation Project a year ago.

 Only a separate state, he felt, could turn the vast stretches of dry land in Telangana into lush green fields. Having formed the TRS and progressed from being the leader of an agitation to the chief minister of India’s youngest state, Chandrasekhar Rao is now close to realising his dream of providing water for lakhs of farm lands through the Kaleshwaram project and various other projects under it.
 
 As the TRS gears up for its 17th foundation day on April 27, there are many reasons for it to celebrate. But the party also needs to gear up for challenges. Before it won the 2014 elections, the TRS did not come out with a party manifesto for the 2004 and 2009 elections. It’s only agenda then was to achieve separate Telangana.
 
 It was the famous fast-unto-death and then Union home minister P Chidambaram’s announcement on December 9, 2009 that became a turning point in the formation of a separate state. Some unique agitation methods were adopted to pressure the Centre to finally draw up a roadmap. Finally, Telangana state became a reality on June 2, 2014.
 
 “Telangana vochudo KCR chachudo (Either I achieve a separate Telangana state or I die),” was KCR's refrain. Every other party had no choice but to join in the chorus.
 
 The question now is where has Chandrasekhar Rao set his sights on. He’s got his eye on national politics. The fact that there have been no law and order issues post bifurcation has brought the focus back to Hyderabad as the right destination for business, particularly the IT sector. The realty sector that took a beating during the years of agitation stabilised after the new state was formed.
 
 Politically, the 2019 elections will be a challenge for the TRS and the party is gearing up to face it by banking heavily on the many welfare schemes the government launched. The biggest challenge will be for KCR himself. He will have to ensure that his party retains the reigns of power in the state and additionally hurtle himself into the national political orbit, an attempt that has already begun. As always, the 64-year-old Chandrasekhar continues to be an incurable optimist – looking beyond at what is invisible to others.
 
