NAVI MUMBAI: Illegal  , posters and banners have returned to deface Panvel City Municipal Corporation ( ) nodes such as Kharghar, Panvel, New Panvel, Khanda Colony, Kalamboli, Taloja and Kamothe. 

 Residents allege that the civic administration is doing little to counter the massive defacement after the first PCMC commissioner, Sudhakar Shinde was abruptly transferred last month. 
 
 Locals said that the former Panvel civic chief had taken stern action against political leaders and civil activists who defaced the city with illegal posters, hoardings and banners. 
 
 As PCMC area is facing acute water crisis for the last couple of months and most of the officials have been busy in resolving the issue by supplying through tankers, the anti-encroachment staffers are not present in any of the nodes to crack the whip on illegal defacement, opined residents.
 
 Kharghar resident   said, “Defacement was almost zero during Shinde’s tenure who used to accompany the anti-encroachment squad to tear down all illegal advertisements from public places besides strictly dealing with illegal hawkers. Soon after he left, hoardings have come up again to paint the city ugly.”
 
 Political banners belonging to all political parties have mushroomed in the city roads and bylanes. Foot over bridges, skywalks and flyovers have not been spared from defacement in areas like Kharghar, Kalamboli, Kamothe. 
 
 “Civic body should track down the perpetrators to maintain the clean city image,” said activist Ravi Srivastava.
 
 Birthday and wedding banners and political posters comprise a major chunk that are blocking the footpaths and signage at many places. “Civic officials nowadays appear too busy in other jobs which has put the cleanliness of the city on the backburner. Complaints have been lodged more than once highlighting the rampant defacement in the last fortnight, but no action has been initiated yet,” said a Panvel resident Kishore Raut.
 
 Civic officials have admitted that a large number of illegal banners has come up in the last few days and action will taken soon after deploying more forces.
 
  “We were busy in dealing with water issues in the last few days. Our anti-encroachment squads will soon launch a drive against the illegal hoardings. We will deploy more men to bring down the illegal posters,” said Jamir Lengarekar, deputy municipal commissioner, PCMC.
 
 Defacement was almost zero during Shinde’s tenure who used to accompany the anti-encroachment squad to tear down all illegal banners from public places. Soon after he left, hoardings have come up again to paint the city ugly
 
 
