PUNE:  , Dr D Y   and Symbiosis International, among the 60 educational institutes granted autonomy by the ministry of human resource development on Tuesday, are aiming for global presence. They can now design new courses that will match industry demands. 

 Union human resource development minister Prakash Javadekar said during a media briefing in New Delhi that these universities will remain under the University of Grants Commission's ( ) ambit but will have the freedom to start new courses, off-campus centres, skills development courses, research parks and other academic programmes. 
 
 The universities will also have the freedom to hire foreign faculty, enrol foreign students, provide incentive-based emoluments to the faculty, enter into academic collaborations and run open distance learning programmes, the minister said. 
 
 Among the state universities, Savitribai Phule Pune University has been categorized as a Grade 1 university with a   (NAAC) score of 3.60. 
 
 Among the deemed-to-be-universities, Dr D Y Patil Vidyapeeth with a NAAC score of A+ (3.62) and Symbiosis International with a NAAC score of A+ (3.58) have been categorized as Grade 1 from Pune.
 
 SPPU vice-chancellor Nitin Karmalkar said, "This is a great news for the state university. We will obviously focus on more new courses as per the current demands of the industry. Moreover, we will focus on foreign collaborations, like going for collaborative degrees with eminent foreign universities, getting their professors here to teach our students and getting into more collaborative research."
 
 The "autonomy" tag paved the way for the university's selection in the Institutes of Eminence category as well. "We will be able to develop in a much more global way with greater autonomy. We are thrilled to be in the fourth position in the list that was published. This means we may have a greater chance to be an institute of eminence, once that list is declared," Karmalkar added.
 
 Dr D Y Patil Society secretary Somnath Patil said academic development and research will be the focus area of the institute. "Despite being a deemed university, we had certain restrictions when it came to opening new courses. But now with the new announcement, it seems that we will be able to cut through the permission procedures and start new courses without UGC approval. These courses will be in tune with the latest industry demand and beneficial for the students' development."
 
 Vidya Yeravdekar, principal-director of  , said, "The move will improve perception of foreign governments and lead to "good admissions." 
 
 She added, "Quality faculty will join us. We are going to open a new centre in Nagpur and will hopefully not have to go through the permission raj that was previously required." 
 
 
