NASHIK: The   has decided to cancel the registration of the private English-medium school in the Jail Road area at Nashik Road where the woman principal allegedly caned 15 students from Class 3 over their poor handwriting on Tuesday.

 Ramchandra Jadhav, deputy director of the department, told TOI that the process of cancelling the registration of the school has begun. “I took feedback from some of the parents whose children were caned. We cannot allow the functioning of schools which resort to corporal punishment,” he said.
 
 Jadhav said students of the school would be accommodated in other private English medium schools in the city. “The school operates only up to Class 7 and has around 200 students. We will ensure that all the students are accommodated in other schools,” he said.
 
 Jadhav justified the move to cancel the school’s registration, saying it was necessary to send a strong message to other schools that students cannot be punished harshly. He said he would also write to Nashik police commissioner Ravinder Singal urging that the principal be arrested.
 
 Jadhav said he has directed the   (NMC) and the education department of the Nashik zilla parishad (ZP) to take necessary steps to cancel the school’s registration. NMC’s education officer   will conduct an indepth inquiry into the incident while the ZP’s Vaishali Zankar will form a three-member committee and prepare a report within eight days on cancelling the school’s registration, he said.
 
 Meanwhile, members of the school’s administration have been given a notice to remain present at Jadhav’s office for an inquiry on February 8. The school functioned as usual on Wednesday.
 
 Earlier in the day, the Nashik Road police took the statements of the parents of a few more students who were caned. The police, however, clarified that the principal, who is also a trustee of the school, had not been arrested yet.
 
 The parents of only two students lodged a complaint against the principal. On the complaint lodged by   of Dasak, who said her nine-year-old daughter   and another 10-year-old boy Om Bhoir were beaten by the principal, the Nashik Road police registered an FIR under section 324 of the IPC (voluntarily causing hurt) and sections under the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act 2015.
 
