PUNE: Most ATMs across the city remained either out of cash or woefully short of money after a four-day break. 

 Around 30-40% of the ATMs had no cash till Wednesday evening, while the ones with currency notes had only a certain denomination to offer. The situation compelled common people to visit one ATM after another even as currency managers remained busy finding resources to keep as many machines running as possible.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 “We are getting directions from the bank headquarters to ensure that the ATMs function. But we do not have the money,” said a currency manager with a public sector bank.
 
 The cash crisis was cut across banks and varied in its spread. Certain ATMs, located cheek by jowl, were cash rich, while a lot of standalone kiosks did not have any money at all.
 
 “This ATM was last refilled four days ago. The machine is now left with currency notes of Rs 100 denomination only,” said a security guard posted at an urban co-operative bank ATM.
 
 Several customers felt that the banks had anticipated the challenge and could have taken some steps to ensure that their patrons did not have to struggle.   and   assured a customer that they have noted his concerns and a team will get back to him.
 
 “Not even a single ATM in Balewadi and Baner has cash. Is there a strike or something (that the) common man doesn’t know of?” asked   as he tagged twitter handles of SBI, Syndicate Bank, HDFC Bank, ICICI Bank, Andhra Bank, IndusInd Bank and Axis Bank.
 
 The currency managers said the problem was foreseen, but they could not ensure money at a time when there is a “tempered flow” from RBI.
 
 “We did try and slot cash for all ATMs under our control. But when we have to keep two out of four cassettes empty due to short supply of Rs 200 and Rs 2,000 denominations, ATMs are bound to dry out faster,” said another currency manager of a public sector bank.
 
 Several ATMs across areas such as Kothrud, Kalyaninagar, Baner and Balewadi sported out-of-cash signs even on Wednesday.
 
 Though the banks have not agreed on a cap on withdrawals, many customers complained that they could not get the desired denominations from the operational ATMs. “I needed Rs 7,000, but could withdraw only Rs 2,000... not even Rs 2,500. I got the money in the denomination of Rs 100 only,” said  , a resident of Narhe.
 
 What surprised many was the absence of long queues in front of ATMs, like the days immediately after demonetisation, even as the cash flow is far from normal. 
 
 “You won’t see such a situation these days because all currency available in the market is still legal tender and people are exchanging cash among themselves,” a currency manager said.
 
 However, small and medium-scale enterprises have started paying their workers in cash. As a result, such workers need not need to throng the banks or ATMs. 
 
 Among the several suggestions of the bank managers to keep the cash flow steady is staggered operation of ATMs. A currency manager said, “ATMs without much transactions can be kept open for the peak 8 hours. Some other machines can be kept open throughout.” 
 
 For an ATM to be viable, he added, there should be a minimum of 90 transactions per day. On an average basis, the February 2018 data shows that there were about 109 transactions per ATM. 
 
 If even 40% ATMs operate in shifts, the manager said, the chances of leaving a machine out in the open undefended can be mitigated. “Security is expensive. Besides, armed security guards are not allowed in some states. And if there’s an attack, what can one man do?” he said.
 
 The currency managers have shared most of their concerns with RBI at various formal meetings. But the central bank is yet to issue any formal direction so far.
 
