MADURAI: The   bench of the Madras high court on Thursday granted interim advance bail to R Sathiyapriya, wife of B   who married   member   on March 26 in New Delhi defying a family court’s stay on his marriage with any other woman. 

  filed the anticipatory bail plea apprehending arrest by North Avenue Police, New Delhi, in a case registered recently against her under the IPC, Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act and the Pocso Act on the basis of a complaint lodged by Ramasamy. The petitioner said she had been falsely implicated in the case registered the day after the illegal marriage of her husband to Sasikala Pushpa, through a statement from her step-daughter Anjalai Ramasamy. The step-daughter had claimed before the police that Sathyapriya had not taken care of her properly, used abusive words against her and behaved indecently. 
 
 Petitioner Sathiyapriya noted that the allegations were raised after a gap of three years. In fact, there was not an iota of truth in it as she had treated her step-daughter like her own daughter, she said. Narrating the background of the issue, she said Ramasamy had told her that his first wife had died in an accident and he had a three-year-old daughter. He married her on December 10, 2014. However, after the marriage when she went to Delhi, she came to know that the girl was nine years old. From the beginning the man started torturing her mentally and physically “due to his illicit intimacy with the Rajya Sabha member.” 
 
 Besides, the petitioner alleged that Ramasamy set up one Palanisamy from Dindigul and obtained a marriage certificate from pastor S Baskaran Jeyakumar from Alankulam in Tirunelveli as if he (Palanisamy) had married her (Sathiyapriya) at the church. Using that certificate, Palanisamy filed a petition before the court in Dindigul for restitution of conjugal rights. Thereafter, with the help of that case, Ramasamy filed a petition before the court in Madurai to declare his marriage null and void, in which he had suppressed many facts. 
 
 
