CHENNAI: The commissioner of   rail safety ( ) and his four member team has asked   to complete the construction of the entry points at Central Metro, as it has only one entrance ready so far for the massive 70,000sqm underground transit hub. The team, which has been conducting the last leg of inspections required for the official opening of the lines at Central Metro and at Anna Salai, visited the yet-to-be-opened stations again on Sunday. The lines between Shenoy Nagar and Central Metro and Little Mount to AG-DMS are likely to get authorisation for commercial operations next week.

 “Right now, they have only one entry/exit point at Central Metro that they will be opening. We have told them that they should get another exit point ready for evacuation of passengers during an emergency,” said K A Manoharan, CMRS, after his visit to the stations again . “We will authorise operations by next week with some conditions, to which the CMRL has agreed.”
 
 Officials said the entry point adjacent to Park Station will be the only one to be opened when  , the city’s largest transit hub, begins operation. This means, commuters will have to cross the road to get access to the station. At Central Metro, only the upper track level which links commuters to Koyambedu and Airport via Egmore and Nehru Park stations will be opened. The lower level linking Anna Salai is expected to be ready by end of 2018.
 
 The safety team made similar observations about the Anna Salai line. After completing the inspections on the 4.5km Anna Salai line from Saidapet to AG-DMS on Friday and Saturday, the team made several observations including a lack of integration of critical systems at some stations. “Some systems like firefighting and ventilation are not integrated. We have told them to complete it. CMRL has told us it will be ready in 15 days,” the commissioner said.
 
 The team also observed that the entry points to the stations at AG-DMS has been completed only on one side, which meant commuters will have to cross the road to access the station here too. “CMRL said the construction of entry point on the other side will take time for completion,” commissioner Manoharan said.
 
 
