Vijayawada: Ornithologists and bird lovers in the city are urging the government to save Kolleru lake which they say is beset by a number of man-made problems.

 Kolleru lake the largest freshwater lake in the state is spread across 2.2 lakh acres. Every year, thousands of pelicans, from Russia, Australia, Africa and other countries, come to Kolleru during winter season. However in the last few years, the sightings of grey herons, white ibis, bullock ibis and other birds have drastically reduced. Many blame changes in the environment for this development.
 
 M Ravikiran, a bird lover from the city, says, “Pollution mainly because of unauthorised fish ponds in Kolleru lake, is threatening the habitat of migratory birds. Moreover encroachments have led to fewer birds coming to the lake.”
 
 Some bird lovers point out that regulation of water from Ramileru, Tammileru, Budameru projects and other rivulets is impacting the inflows of water into the lake. “Water levels in the lake are continuously fluctuating. The inflow of water have reduced in recent times. The lake resembling a desert by February-end. Officials should look into this,” says Kalluri Ramana a resident of Kaikaluru in Krishna district.
 
 The outcry to save the freshwater lake comes at a time when the Krishna district administration is gearing upto organise the pelican bird festival at Atapaka in Krishna district on a grand scale. Krishna district administration has already completed arrangements for the bird festival which is scheduled to start on this coming Sunday. Krishna district collector B. Lakshmikantham and joint collector Vijaya Krishnan are closely monitoring the arrangements of the festival along with local legislator and Health Minister Kamineni Srinivas.
 
 To add a dash of glamour to the festival, film actor Venkatesh is expected to be the special guest at the festival. Andhra Pradesh Tourism department along with Krishna district administration is eyeing to make this a yearly event to attract international tourists.
 
 “The government, which is focused on promoting tourism in the name of  , should first focus on protecting the birds which fly thousands of kilometres to reach Kolleru lake for breeding. Fishing and other activities are disturbing their habitat,” says Ravikiran.
 
 
