Nagpur: The CPI (Maoist), cornered by pressure from security forces across the nation, depleting manpower, and loss of domination in many strongholds, appear to have fallen back on their propaganda wing to continue the struggle. The reds are issuing press notes trying to show the central and state governments led by BJP and its allies in poor light. The Central Committee (CC) issued two press communications last month to warn about ‘BJP-led government’s ploy to impose a Hindu radical system by suppressing minorities, like Muslims and dalits’. The reds cited passing of the triple talaq bill by the centre, and the so-called dubious handling of the Koregaon-Bhima issue by the state, including the murder of one person during the protest. The Maoists claimed the Hindutva-driven parties and their allies are trying to crush voices of deprived sections.  The Maoists claimed in the press note issued by their CC spokesperson Abhay that the government disrupted the dalit celebrations at Koregaon-Bhima systematically with their allies like RSS. In another press note issued by the Dandakaranya special zonal committee (DKSZC), the Maoists targeted the BJP-led government’s comprehensive action plan ‘Samadhan (2017-22)’ comprising development components and aggressive action against the reds in their strongholds.  The Maoists are calling the Samadhan plan ‘anti-people’, as it spreads across the forests, “with the agenda of displacing natives and grab their land”. Addl DG, Operations, D Kanakratnam said the Maoists are trying to evoke emotions of minorities through the sensitive issues.   “Koregaon-Bhima is being handled by the government legally. Triple talaq issue too is just to incite minorities,” he said. “We are concentrating on positive changes in affected areas,” he said. The reds highlighted their success against security forces at the encounter at Irpanar forest in Chattisgarh last month, where some jawans died, and their arms and weapons were looted. The reds claimed the onslaught was part of their strategy to crush the ‘Samadhan’ plan.