SHILLONG:: The political circles in the state are abuzz with the prospects and possibilities that may arise out of the outcome of the by-elections to the Ampati assembly constituency in the   district, which will go to the polls on May 28 next.

 The Ampati Constituency, which was vacated by former chief minister Mukul   as he chose to retain the Songsak assembly seat that he had won in the last elections is poised to see an interesting contest with the   likely to field Sangma's eldest daughter Miani Shira as the party candidate.
 
 The former chief minister, who is presently leader of the opposition in the state assembly was elected for six consecutive terms from Ampati in South West Garo Hills district and this time also contested successfully from Songsak in East Garo Hills district. 
 
 Sangma was ousted from power on March 7 though the Congress emerged as the single-largest party in the state assembly elections.
 
 "Songsak is a constituency which requires lots of nurturing, lots of attention and I would love to do so," Sangma had told journalists recently.
 
 Sangma, who was the chief minister since 2010, defeated his nearest BJP rival Bakul Ch Hajong by over 6,000 votes in Ampati.
 
 In Songsak, he defeated his nearest National People's Party rival Nihim D Shira by over 1,300 votes.
 
 Sangma's wife Dikkanchi D Shira and brother Zenith M Sangma also won the last Assembly elections.
 
 The Congress' strength is now 20 in the House of 60 and the party has the prospects of increasing the tally by one, given the fact that Ampati has been nurtured by Mukul for years now.
 
 Meanwhile, other parties are yet to decide on their respective candidates for the prestigious constituency, which is considered a Congress bastion.
 
 Significantly, chief minister Conrad Kongkal Sangma, who is Lok Sabha member from the Tura Parliamentary Constituency will have to soon decide on a 'safe seat' as he is required to get elected to the state assembly in another four months. 
 
 The National People's Party (NPP), of which Conrad is president is yet to take a call on the issue. - MD (28-04-18)
 
 cleared - os
 
 
