GANDHINAGAR: During the monthly review of key ongoing and approved development projects in the state, as part of PRAGATI (Pro-Active Governance and Timely Implementation) programme, the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) on Wednesday reportedly expressed its displeasure over Gujarat’s performance. According to sources, the PMO was unhappy with the slow pace of execution of several important projects in the state, which together are worth over Rs 1.5 lakh crore. The development plans which were reviewed included the bullet train project, Delhi-Mumbai Industrial Corridor (DMIC), Dedicated Freight Corridor (DFC), Ahmedabad Metro rail, Vadodara-Mumbai Expressway and other road works.

 In all, the PMO reviewed infrastructure projects of around Rs 2 lakh crore in   and some portions of Maharashtra. After expressing displeasure over the slow pace, the PMO directed the officials to expedite all processes, especially the land acquisition-related issues. Chief secretary   represents Gujarat in the PRAGATI video-conference with the PMO every Wednesday.
 
 When contacted, deputy chief minister  , said, “This has not been brought into my knowledge. Chief secretary and department secretaries attend the meeting. Land acquisition is a complicated matter. We have to follow certain processes.”
 
 Status of the infrastructure projects reviewed under PRAGATI
 
 Project
 
 Status of the scheme and remarks by the Prime Minister’s Office 
 
 Mumbai-Ahmedabad High Speed Rail Project | Rs 1,08,000 cr; (including work in Maharashtra)
 
 Land acquisition plan submitted to the Government of Gujarat. The state government needs to expedite acquisition of the same.
 
 Vadodara-Mum Expressway |
 
 Rs 41,560 cr (including work in Maharashtra)
 
 Land acquisition pending for 27 villages in Vadodara district, 32 villages in Bharuch district, 37 villages in Surat district, 22 villages in   district and 28 villages in Valsad district. The awards for 29 villages of Vadodara, 32 villages of Bharuch & five villages of Surat have been declared. Compensation amount for Vadodara, Bharuch and Surat also deposited in a joint account. 
 
 Western Dedicated Freight Corridor | Rs 51,101 cr
 
 Out of 33 ROBs, work under progress on 12 ROBs and estimates of 14 ROBs are being prepared. Tender process initiated for one ROB.
 
 Delhi-Mumbai Industrial Corridor | Rs 36,000 cr (more than 40% area is in Gujarat)
 
 Gujarat To expedite finalization of town planning schemes (TPS) for the remaining land at Dholera Special Investment Region (DSIR)
 
 MDPL Capacity Expansion AND Palanpur-Vadodara Pipeline Extension | Rs 1,879 cr
 
 1 acre of land is Government land (public road). The department has received a notification to transfer the road. Thus, land transfer process will be initiated. The process to resolve the issue will be expedited
 
 Ahemdabad Metro Rail | Rs 10,773 cr
 
 56% of the private land has been acquired. Government of Gujarat needs to expedite acquisition of the balance land
 
 563 out of 1,047 project affected families (PAFs) have been relocated. State government needs to expedite relocation of balance PAFs.
 
 At three locations — Kankaria East, Shahpur and   area — private encroachments yet to be removed. State government needs to resolve the issue quickly
 
 Six-laning of   section of NH-8A | Rs 805.39 cr
 
 At Ch. 308.450 RHS of toll plaza, a Garage owner is not allowing to fix static weigh bridge in front of his garage for the past two years. Several attempts have been made with police also but because of the influence of the garage owner, concessionaire has not been able to install the static weigh bridge.
 
 Construction of remaining work of Junagadh bypass | Rs 198.55 cr
 
 The high court case has been resolved. The compensation to the villagers has been given based on urban area.
 
 Action plan for expeditious disposal of pending 353 forest cases
 
 As the district-level officials cannot upload the documents on the portal, the cases are shown in pending status. The department is trying to sort out the issue with NIC. As on date, 174 cases are pending.
 
 *Status according to the minutes of the meeting held on April 17
 
 
