LUDHIANA: A Punjabi singer, who had glorified guns and violence in one of his songs, has been arrested by the special task force (STF) of the Punjab police for allegedly peddling heroin.  , who went by the nickname  , was arrested along with 1.5 kg of heroin. His accomplice too was arrested.

 Police officials claim that the accused were in contact with smugglers in Afghanistan, Pakistan, Vancouver and Dubai. It is believed that the two would pick up the drugs provided by Pakistani smugglers along the border in Amritsar and then pass these on to their contacts in other countries.
 
 Police officials have also recovered a revolver, five live cartridges and a mobile phone with an Italian SIM card. The two made WhatsApp calls through the Italian number so that cops could not be able to trace their calls. Officials have also found several pictures of   with weapons on the phone. It is believed that he circulated the pictures among friends and people he wanted to impress.
 
 Both men have been booked under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act and the Arms Act.
 
 
 
 
 While Gurjant belongs to Lopoke in Amritsar, his accomplice Surjit Singh is from Mava village, also in Amritsar. Gurjant’s only album is called ‘Jatt Mehkama-2’ and was released in August 2017.
 
 STF assistant inspector general of police, Mukhwinder Singh Bhullar, said the two were arrested on the basis of a tip-off. They were passing by Rahon Road in Ludhiana in a car when cops tried to stop them at a checkpoint. The accused tried to escape by reversing the car, but were chased down and arrested.
 
 "Surjit said that he is a farmer and took to drug peddling two year ago. Gurjant has been smuggling contraband for the past six months," said the AIG. “We suspect that his brother Nirmal Singh is also into drug smuggling. He is on the run and we have launched a manhunt for him.”
 
 Bhullar added that they have found some numbers of Pakistan, Afghanistan, Vancouver and Dubai on the phone which could belong to the main suppliers of the drugs.
 
