BATHINDA: The   (OCCU) of Punjab has got intelligence inputs which hint at gangster Ramanjit Singh  , who was arrested last week in Hong Kong, being in touch with his maternal brother Ramandeep Singh, alias   Machhana, lodged in Bathinda jail through WhatsApp calling. The OCCU has made the observation after a   of a mobile phone was recovered from Rammi late on Saturday. The OCCU is thoroughly investigating the matter and will send a team to Bathinda jail to question Rammi.

 It will also try to get call details from the SIM seized from Rammi. The Punjab police have already started the process for extradition of Romi from Hong Kong.
 
 He had fled to Hong Kong before the Nabha jailbreak on November 28, 2016, but is accused of having sent funds for the jailbreak and conspiring targeted killings. Rammi, who was also close to gangster  , faces nearly 12 cases, including that of the murder of gangster Sukha Kahlwan in 2015.
 
 The intelligence agencies detected a call from jail, reportedly made by Rammi’ accomplice in jail Charanjit Singh Garhdiwal, and alerted the Bathinda jail authorities and the police on Saturday evening.
 
 The police though succeeded in recovering the SIM from Rammi but could not find the mobile phone. During investigations it came out that Rammi was in touch with his maternal brother Romi in Hong Kong through WhatsApp, an intelligence officer said.
 
 Gurmeet Singh Chauhan, OCCU additional inspector general (AIG), said that , “We are investigating if any calls were made between first cousins Romi and Rammi. We will send a team to question Rammi in the jail.”
 
 He, however, declined to divulge more details.
 
 Bathinda jail superintendent Sukhwinder Singh Sahota said that, “We seized only the SIM from Rammi and Charanjit Singh but no phone was found. The jail authorities too are investigating as to whether they too had a mobile phone and a case u/s 188(disobedience of order duly promulgated by public servant) and jail manual act have been registered against them.”
 
