HYDERABAD: Providing huge relief to shoppers, the municipal administration department on Tuesday instructed the managements of shopping malls in the city not to collect   fee from any visitor for the first 30 minutes. And for those parking their vehicle up to one hour, no parking fee should be levied provided the shopper produces a copy of the purchase   as proof of shopping in the respective malls or multiplexes. This will come into force from April 1.

 As per the order issued by municipal administration department principal secretary Arvind Kumar, if a person has parked his or her vehicle for more than one hour but produces a purchase bill or   for an amount that is more than the parking fee, no parking fee should be collected. Finally, the managements will have a right to collect parking fee from those who do not do shopping in the malls, but park their vehicles beyond half an hour.
 
 The government issued order in the wake of complaints against several   that they are fleecing visitors in the name of parking fee.
 
 
 
 
 Managements of multiplexes and malls have been collecting ₹20 from two-wheelers and ₹30 from four-wheelers.
 
 While some multiplexes have fixed charges and collect before allowing vehicles inside their complexes, some establishments give a token to motorists and collect charges while they leave the mall as per the number of hours the vehicle is parked.
 
 A few months ago, many complaints were lodged against the managements of Inorbit mall and also Maheshwari-Parameshwari complex at  , regarding collection of parking fee.
 
 Following that, municipal administration minister   directed the authorities to study all the relevant rules and Acts on parking fee provisions and come up with a solution.
 
  officials say there are relevant Acts and rules where managements have to provide free parking. The GHMC Act Section 115 (40) says parking place or a common area in a multi-storied commercial complex is a public place and nobody can claim absolute right to regulate and charge fee for parking. In 2003, the high court, in a judgement, said commercial establishments cannot collect parking fee from their visitors as the complexes come under ‘public place’ “As per the building rules, adequate number of off-street parking spaces have to be made by the owners of the commercial establishments, malls and multiplexes to meet the demand from their employees and visitors.
 
 “It has come to our notice that huge parking fee is being collected by the commercial establishments, irrespective of duration and purpose of the visit. Hence the order,” Arvind Kumar said.
 
