NEW DELHI: The   on Tuesday asked the Centre to give statistics about persons aged 65 years and above who have been applying for the last five years consecutively and yet have not got an opportunity to go for  , which is decided by a draw of lots.

 Appearing for  , advocate Haris Beeran, senior advocate   and   questioned the central policy to do away with the earlier Haj policy under which a person was automatically permitted to go for the pilgrimage if he had failed to get a chance under the state quota despite applying for four consecutive years.
 
 Additional solicitor general Pinky Anand explained the new Haj policy in detail to a bench headed by Chief Justice Dipak Misra and said the petitioners had failed to point out how the transparent allocation of permission to undertake subsidised Haj pilgrimage had in any way discriminated against any person to fall foul of Article 14 of the Constitution.
 
 Beeran said the SC had in 2012 approved the central Haj policy which allotted 75% of Haj quota to state committees and the rest to private tour operators. He said state committees charged a reasonable Rs 2 lakh for travel and stay in Saudi Arabia compared to around Rs 4 lakh charged by private tour operators.
 
 The Kerala Haj Committee said 4.48 lakh pilgrims had applied for the pilgrimage this year but the state could accommodate only 1.23 lakh as its quota was reduced. This “arbitrary and unreasonable reduction” in the state’s Haj quota had left pilgrims open to exploitation by private tour operators, it said.
 
 Bhushan said allocation of quotas to states had created an imbalance. “There are many states where there are less number of applications for Haj pilgrimage while the state enjoys a higher quota, but in states like Kerala, the reduced quota is woefully inadequate to meet the heavy rush of applicants for Haj,” he said.
 
 Beeran and Bhushan complained against scrapping of automatic permission for those who had applied four consecutive times. They said those who were serious about going for Haj and had repeatedly failed to secure a berth in the draw of lots should be permitted to go by reviving the old provision.
 
 The bench asked the ASG to give details of persons who were unlucky to secure a berth for Haj and posted the matter for further hearing on February 19.
 
 Anand also opposed the proposal from Bhushan to make Kozhikode the departure airport for Haj pilgrims instead of the newly proposed Kochi. She said Kochi airport was bigger and had better facilities.
 
