Visakhapatnam: As elections to the Lok Sabha and the Andhra Pradesh assembly approach, there’s one major poll promise of 2014 on which the TDP government of N Chandrababu Naidu has been facing opposition heat — lack of employment opportunities for the youth.

 “Job kaavalante, Babu raavali” (For us to bag jobs, Babu should be back) was the hugely popular theme of the TDP’s 2014 outdoor and social media campaign which was monitored by the party’s scion Nara Lokesh.
 
 Though analysts feel that the Naidu government is yet to deliver fully on its promise to the youths of the state, an institution which runs under the IT, electronics and communications department helmed by Lokesh, has been making rapid strides in enabling employment creation in sectors like IT, ITES, mobile manufacturing etc. 
 
 The Andhra Pradesh Information Technology Academy (APITA), which was set up two years back, claims to have provided over 9,900 jobs till date.
 
  Developing and offering courses in IT, electronics and communications in collaboration with industry and academia, bridging the urban-rural divide in producing readily employable graduates are among the major objectives of APITA which is headquartered in Vijayawada.
 
 “While on one side, companies are not able to find talent to fill up job vacancies, on the other side a big lot of engineering students from our state are unaware of these openings and the skills required. 
 
 “APITA, as per the vision of our CM, plugs this major gap. We provide the orientation for aspirants as per their interests and talent and help him/her gain a job through job fairs and other channels,” J A Chowdary, IT advisor to the AP government, told TOI. 
 
 “We have roped in companies like Infosys, one of our top job providers, too which at present have no operations in the state,” the special chief secretary rank official says.
 
 According to officials, out of the 9,902 jobs provided through APITA, 3,810 jobs were through a special drive called Leap (Look for Employees in Andhra Pradesh) taken up by the APITA in the last 15 days covering all 13 districts of the state. 
 
 “In these challenging times of skill disruption and dynamic nature of recruiters’ requirements, APITA concluded its massive initiative Leap on Tuesday with 13   initiatives in 13 districts in a span of 15 days,” says Winny Patro, additional CEO, APITA.
 
 Before these state-wide recruitments through the Leap initiative, APITA has provided jobs to 6,092 candidates in the last 10 months — starting August 2017 — the time APITA got into employment drives, Patro says.
 
 Even students who could not afford an engineering degree and only completed diplomas have also been placed in mobile electronics companies like Foxconn which has set up a facility at Sri City in Chittoor, APITA officials said.
 
 
