PATNA: The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Tuesday seized properties worth Rs 2 crore of IAS official   in a money laundering case. The seized properties included one premium flat each at Kolkata and Ranchi, two houses at Udaipur and a plot of land at Bengaluru.

 ED officials at Patna zonal office said Pradeep is also an accused in the   (NRHM) medicine scam in Jharkhand in 2003-04. The CBI is probing the case.
 
 Pradeep was a Bihar cadre IAS official, but later went to Jharkhand after bifurcation of the state in 2000. He was Patna DM from February 21 to April 4, 1998. He is now serving as commissioner of   in Jharkhand. 
 
 “ED initiated investigation under the provisions of Prevention of Money Laundering Act on the basis of chargesheet filed by the CBI in NRHM case and for possessing assets disproportionate to his known sources of income. ED has found his involvement in money laundering since 1998,” an ED official told TOI.
 
 The official said Pradeep had started amassing properties disproportionate to his known sources of income since his posting as Patna DM. “It was found during investigation that Pradeep as Patna DM had invested Rs40 lakh amassed through illegal means and purchased Indira Vikas Patra and Kisan Vikas Patra from Patna GPO and Bankipore postoffice. By the time the certificates matured, he was transferred to Jharkhand. Pradeep then declared Nand Lal HUF (Hindu undivided family) in which his brother was made the dummy ‘karta’ to launder money. The cash received after maturity of the Indira Vikas and   were later invested in fixed deposits in the name of Nand Lal HUF,” the official said.
 
 He said apart from Pradeep, four other persons, including his brother Rajendra Kumar, Dharmendra Kumar Dhiraj and Shyamal Chakravaraty from Jharkhand and chartered accountant Naresh Kejriwal have been made co-accused in the money laundering case. 
 
 “The procedure to attach the properties in different cities were initiated today and we will soon start the process of taking their possession,” the official added.
 
 Pradeep hails from Rajasthan. He has already been charged under various sections of IPC and Prevention of Corruption Act for indulging in criminal conspiracy, cheating, dishonestly inducing delivery of property and criminal misconduct by a public servant, among others.
 
 
