HYDERABAD: The   (MCI)   in the latest report has once again recommended to the Centre not to permit admission of a fresh batch of 150 MBBS students at   in the city for the academic years 2018-2019 and 2019-20. The MCI cited several deficiencies and lapses including the presence of in-patients who have been admitted despite having no significant complaints.

 
 However, the medical institute’s management said the medical college is six years old and is already recognised and that there is no need of any renewal.   Director Dr   told TOI: “We are a recognised college as we are six years old. The MCI during a recent inspection found the bed occupancy ratio at 72.9% while the faculty absence was just four per cent. It is all within norms. Regarding patients, it is all subjective. Sometimes, relatives who are attendants may be absent during inspection. There is no need of renewal for our medical college and we can admit a fresh batch. If the Centre calls for a hearing based on the MCI report recommendation, we will explain our case.”The   in the report pointed out the shortage of resident doctors at 17.7%.
 
 The report said: “In the female medical ward, a patient K. Meghana was admitted for seizures since four years and is on treatment. There are no episodes of convulsions in the past one year and no other complaints reported by the patient either related to disease or medication. In the dermatology male ward, patients admitted on April 19, 2018, morning has no complaints that merit admission. In the paediatrics ward, a patient named   admitted on April 18 was prescribed injectables and oral medicines. However, no medicine was being administered, according to the patient. No attendant or personal belongings of the patients were found. In female surgery ward, B. Lakhya aged 35 years was admitted in female surgery with colitis which were not significant for surgical management. At least 2-3 female patients were admitted for only backache without any significant findings on CT(sic).”
 
 The MCI in the report said it decided not to consider the institute for processing applications for postgraduate courses in the academic year 2019-20 and to issue show cause notice as to why the recommendation for withdrawal of recognition of the courses run by that institute should not be made for undergraduate and postgraduate courses along with the direction of stoppage of admissions in permitted post-graduate courses.
 
