GURUGRAM: Sunday’s face-off between Haryana chief minister   and Gurugram MP  , both of BJP, has provided unexpected fodder to opposition parties in the state. Calling it an insult to people of Gurugram, the opposition targeted the CM for failing to inform the Gurugram MP about changes in his plan, which resulted in the latter having to wait at   for over half an hour along with   Madhu Azad, Pataudi MLA Bimla Chaudhary and GMDA CEO V Umashankar.

 “If a central minister is treated so shabbily, especially on a day which marked the completion of four years of BJP at the Centre, one can only imagine the plight of the common man,” state Congress president Ashok Tanwar told TOI.
 
 “What happened on Sunday was a deliberate attempt by the chief minister to degrade the Gurugram MP. Whatever happened was not by chance. It’s an insult to the people of Gurugram, as he represents them all. Rao   has been winning elections repeatedly, and to treat someone of his stature in such a humiliating way is just not done. He has already expressed his displeasure, and whatever he said should be seen by the CM as a warning sign,” Tanwar said.
 
 Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), which announced it would contest all 10 parliamentary constituencies and 90 assembly seats in the state on the same day, pointed out that a growing number of BJP leaders have started speaking out because they have realised the party is on a sticky wicket. “The Gurugram MP is not the only one to speak against the chief minister. Some MLAs spoke out against him earlier as well. BJP is being run by dictators and people inside are feeling suffocated, due to which they are openly expressing their views. These leaders have realised that voters are unhappy with the party and have therefore decided to speak out. The Gurugram MP, too, must have felt the pulse of his electorate. Sunday’s fiasco was created on purpose by the chief minister,” said Naveen Jaihind, AAP Haryana-in-charge.
 
 Sources also pointed to the feud between the CM and the MP, which has been simmering for quite some time. “Around a year ago, there was talk that Rao Inderjit would replace   as the Haryana chief minister. There was also a strong possibility that Khattar would contest the next election from Gurugram, due to the large Punjabi vote bank. However, the party leadership decided against it, as it was thought making these changes in an election year would send a negative sign to voters. The power struggle, though, has been on ever since, and it became quite apparent on Sunday. Apart from Inderjit, there are several other critics of the CM within BJP, like Gurugram MLA Umesh Aggarwal. In fact he was recently appointed party spokesperson just to pacify him,” said a senior BJP leader.
 
 
