JAIPUR: Shreya  , a student from Jaipur, has been offered Rs 2.4 crore scholarship by the  , which is among the highest scholarship amounts received by Indian students from foreign universities.

 This university has less than 1% acceptance rate for international students. Meritorious student Goyal has represented India in six ‘Model United Nations’ and is also a founder of a social enterprise at the age of 16. The enterprise connects donors to potential families through a mobile application.
 
 Organizing educational sessions for budding entrepreneurs at this tender age has made her profile unique.
 
 She wants to pursue economics with a specialization in mathematics (along with minors in business and entrepreneurship). She scored 96.4% in grade 10.
 
 The feat achieved by Goyal is an outcome of years of hard work in academics. She started her first internship at the age of 12 in a marketing department of a business house in Ganganagar in 2013. “This internship was need-driven as my family business was falling badly in Ganganagar and I decided to support it. So I decided to learn the nuances of the business to support my family business," said Goyal, who settled in Jaipur in late 2013.
 
 Coming from a small town, she took no time to settle down in a metro city Jaipur. She joined Jayshree Periwal School in class VIII. Since then, she never looked back and completed internships, international projects and gained two international scholarships.
 
 She was selected for the launch of an entrepreneurship club programme by Massachusetts Institute of Technology in her school 2017. The MIT every year selects a few schools across the globe for this programme based on the applications submitted by the students. 
 
 “My task was to prepare five teams in order to procure a funding of $5,000 from MIT. I organized meetings of teams with local mentors and entrepreneurs,” said Goyal. She was part of the Columbia University Summer Immersion programme in New York. 
 
 She was the only foreign national in this prestigious programme. “The three-week residential programme at Columbia University gave me an opportunity to learn business strategies in detail,” said Goyal.
 
 
