MUMBAI: Over the past decade, the number of schools affiliated to the two most popular international boards—Cambridge and IB—saw an almost four- and three-fold increase in India, respectively. Maharashtra topped the charts for both the boards, reveals data.

 Data provided by International Baccalaureate ( ) shows the number of schools authorized by the board was 45 in 2007, which went up to 217 by 2017. However, not all who start sustain. Currently, there are 137 schools offering programmes in the country.
 
 Schools affiliated to   Assessment International Education increased from 100 in 2006 to 430 last year.
 
 
 
 
 Officials said 30-40 schools were added each year. “The steady increase of authorized schools can be seen from 2013 to 2016—when 26 schools were authorized, the highest-ever. Since its first authorized school in 1976, till 2005, 28 IB programmes have been offered. In the next 10 years, programmes offered via authorized schools rose to 201. About 29 additional IB programmes are under review for authorization from schools,” said a spokesperson of IB, headquartered in Geneva.
 
 Seventy-two, or a third, of IB-authorized schools are in Maharashtra. Cambridge too ranks Maharashtra at the top. “Increase in international schools is parent-driven more than school-pushed. The more aware parents are, the more the demand for curriculum which can give students enhanced employability skills and an entrepreneurial mindset,” said Farzana Dohadwala, former IB advisor for South Asia.
 
 With Maharashtra, popularity of curricula seems higher in southern states, with Karnataka and   featuring in the top five states for Cambridge and IB-authorized schools.
 
 Principals said the trend of international schools started in 2000s. “By end of 1990s, parents began feeling the pressure of Indian boards, which were more focused on rote learning. Many NRIs were moving back to the country, looking for international curriculum with local values. That’s where need for international education came in,” said Vandana Lulla, director principal, Podar International School, Santacruz.
 
 “The curriculum is more application-based, promotes critical thinking, communication, collaboration and research,” said Mildred Lobo, principal, SM Shetty International School, Powai.
 
