Ranchi/Jamshedpur: This year's budget of the Raghubar Das government got a mixed response from the state's trade, commerce and industry bodies. The various trade organisations described as positive the allocations in the skill development, new roads and said such financial outlays would change the lifestyle of rural people and increase their buying power at the same time. 

 However, some entrepreneurs are critical of the budget stating that the per capita expenditure would be much lesser.
 
 Dindayal Barnwal, vice-president of Federation of Jharkhand Chamber of Commerce and Industries (FJCCI), appreciated the government's efforts to provide employment to women and youth through strengthening of fishery, lac and cottage and tasar industries. 
 
 "An effort has been made to improve the quality of lives and the incomes of rural populace in the budget, which is worth appreciating," Barnwal said. 
 
 In Jamshedpur, entrepreneurs at the   (ASIA) praised the budget announcements for setting up a skill university and construction of new roads. "There has been a momentum in the expansion of existing manufacturing units. In the coming months, more skilled manpower will be required. The announcement of the university has come at the right time," ASIA president Inder Agarwal said.
 
 The Singhbhum Chamber of Commerce and Industry lauded the CM's announcement to develop Chandil dam and   Wildlife Sanctuary (DWS) as tourist destinations. 
 
 The Confederation of   (CAIT) Jharkhand chapter praised the budget announcements on promoting agro and forest based industries, and hoped that the move improves the earnings of traders engaged in these businesses in sub-urban and rural areas of Kolhan division. 
 
 In Ranchi, entrepreneur and FJCCI functionary   called the budget a damp squib. "It is not a visionary but a routine budget. If the establishment expenses are removed, the per-capita expenditure will be much lesser. The government must create wealth through wealth or through capital account to improve the state's situation," Jain said.
 
 
