Hyderabad:   has forecast that Indian IT exports will grow between 7% and 9% in constant currency in 2018-19, about the same as in the ongoing fiscal. The growth implies a total revenue of $135-$137 billion in the year.

 This is the third year in a row when the growth will be in single digits. The industry, which for long was growing at good double digit rates, has been hit by a reduction in global tech spends, and a change in the nature of these spends – towards newer digital offerings and cloud-based models – which the industry is still adjusting to.
 
 In 2017-18, the growth is expected to be 7.8% in constant currency (8.4% in reported terms), taking exports to $126 billion. Early in the fiscal, Nasscom had forecast a growth between 7% and 8%. Constant currency growth figures eliminate the effect of currency volatility over which companies have no control.
 
 Nasscom president R   said the forecasted growth for the coming fiscal captures the opportunities provided by the newer digital services, which are projected to grow 1.5 to 2 times the industry growth. He said there are signs of a revival in terms of positive macro-economic indicators and an uptick in tech spending. He thinks these would gather steam in the second half of the year, translating into better business opportunities. 
 
 In the past three quarters, the global tech growth forecasts from research firms – Gartner (5.8% to 6.7%) and   (3.9% to 5.1%) – have shown upward revisions, with digital spends driving growth. The US government’s sharp cuts in corporate tax rates are expected to increase tech spends.
 
 “The broader economic upswing, revival in Europe and the US, are translating into business opportunities but with a little bit of a lag,” said Chandrashekhar. “If you look at the year so far, there were a lot of headwinds in terms of political uncertainty and turmoil in the US, Brexit and currency fluctuations. The result was investments in technology were delayed. Many firms were trying to cope with those changes," he said.
 
 Revenues from domestic IT services continued to be a relatively bright spot for the industry. These are expected to grow between 10% and 12% in the next fiscal.
 
 Revenue from digital is projected to grow to $22-$25 billion in 2017-18. Among all IT services, digital grew the fastest at 30%, followed by engineering services at 13% and BPM at over 8%.
 
 Nasscom said the IT industry hired 1 lakh people (net addition) in 2017-18, significantly lower than the 1.3-1.5 lakh that it had projected in June. “The jobs addition may not be at the levels at which it was in its heyday. Increased decoupling of revenue and headcount has led to productivity gains leveraging on automation solutions and greater efficiency. As digital is increasingly becoming all pervasive, reskilling is an ongoing prerequisite,” Chandrashekhar said.
 
 
