CHENNAI: Anyone taking a look at   has to see the nation and the people separately, says Hussain  . 

 "The main problem Pakistan is facing today is its bad policies and the inability to dream of a better future. The people are very innovative. They play cricket and do a lot like the others do. But the soldiers are not trained to create a better state. They are trained to check only the encroachment. Here the policies fail," said the former ambassador of Pakistan to the US, after the launch of his latest book, "Reimagining Pakistan" at the E Hotel inside the Express Avenue Mall on Wednesday.
 
 Haqqani, a leading dissident and public intellectual who lives in exile in the US, offers a candid discussion of Pakistan's origins and its current failings, with suggestions. For Haqqani, the journey to find a solution to his country's problems began 20 years ago when he heard writer   saying "Pakistan is a poorly imagined country."
 
 "After the talk I approached Rushdie and asked why he said so. He said it was for people like me to imagine now. It triggered my conscience and I wanted to know where the country went wrong. I started collecting documents. It took more than 20 years. And I finally found the answer. What Pakistan needs today is a democratic federal structure," said Haqqani, who was adviser to three civilian prime ministers, including   and Benazir Bhutto.
 
 China, according to Haqqani, is trying to nurturing Pakistan's hope that it can fight India. "China is not doing any good things in Pakistan. The Chinese construct cities where people don't live and highways where no one drives. It's China's strategy to keep Pakistan under its control," said the director for South and   at the Hudson Institute.
 
 Haqqani says he is upset that his country, armed with nuclear weapons and dominated by the military and militants, is variously described as 'dangerous', 'unstable' and 'a terrorist incubator'. "Much of Pakistan's dysfunction is attributable to an ideology tied to religion and to hostility with the country out of which it was carved out - India. But 95% of Pakistan's 210 million people were born after Partition, as Pakistanis, and cannot easily give up on their home. "What Pakistan needs is a re-conceptualisation," said Haqqani, whose other books include "Pakistan Between Mosque and Military; Magnificent Delusions: US, Pakistan and an Epic History of Misunderstanding; and India v Pakistan: Why Can't We Just Be Friends? 
 
