BENGALURU: After contesting the Rajya Sabha (RS) polls as an Independent in 2006 and 2012 from Karnataka, outgoing MP,  , is likely to be the BJP’s official candidate for the   on March 23. On the previous two occasions as an Independent,   had made it to the upper house of Parliament with the support of the BJP and JD(S).

 BJP sources told TOI that Chandrasekhar’s name was reportedly cleared by Prime Minister   and the party’s national president, Amit Shah. Chandrasekhar is the vice-chairman of the Kerala unit of the BJP-led NDA and it is this which cleared the decks for him to be considered as the party’s RS candidate. "There is a possibility of the central leadership springing a surprise by fielding a Vokkaliga or a Dalit candidate or even Union minister Prakash Javadekar," BJP sources said.
 
 Four RS seats will be up for contest. The BJP can field one candidate based on its strength in the Karnataka legislative assembly. In the event of polls and if the   and JD(S) fail to reach an understanding, 44 first preference votes are required by each candidate to win. The BJP’s strength in the assembly is 46. BJP sources say that since the RS elections precedes assembly polls, the party is keen on fielding a candidate who has been an activist on issues.
 
 Meanwhile, the Congress has set its sights on fielding three candidates — two of whom can win hands down. The third candidate will have to grapple for votes as the JD(S) has sought Congress’ support. Party sources said the first candidate (in RS polls the votes are allotted in order of preference) will be a Muslim and the second is being sought by all communities.
 
 Among the front-runners for the Muslim slot are sitting MP K Rahman Khan, former minister A H Hindasgeri and former MLC Saleem Ahmed. Minister R Roshan Baig is also interested, but wants the party to give his son the Shivajinagar assembly constituency, which Baig currently represents. However, the Congress high command reportedly wants Baig to stand from the constituency as they need a strong candidate to take on the BJP in assembly polls.
 
 Congress sources said though the high command does not encourage re-nominating a person for a fifth term, chances of an exception being made in Khan’s case are not being ruled out. “He is the senior-most Muslim leader in the party after C K Jaffer Sharief and is capable of bringing minorities onto a single platform. His presence in the Rajya Sabha as a veteran will help,” they said.
 
 Three or four ministers and a dozen MLAs from north Karnataka reportedly met chief minister Siddaramaiah and lobbied for Hindasgeri. Ahmed has been lobbying on the premise that he headed frontal organizations at the state level. The JD(S), meanwhile, is planning to field businessman B M Farook, who lost the same seat in 2016. “We have completed one round of talks with Congress leaders in Delhi asking them to support my candidature,” Farook said. “The response has been positive.” 
 
 
