MEERUT: In what is being seen as an embarrassment to the local police, superintendent of police (rural) Rajesh Kumar has taken back his order to file an FIR against three policemen accused in the custodial death of a man who was allegedly framed in a cow slaughter case.
 
  
  Rajesh Kumar on Sunday had announced at a mahapanchayat in Meerut’s Pallavpuram that an FIR would be lodged against the accused policemen. Kumar had gone to the mahapanchayat, also attended by four BJP MLAs including senior leader  , and had assured the gathering that the accused cops would be booked for murder.
 
  Later when TOI contacted Kumar, he confirmed that he had ordered an FIR based on the complaint of the aggrieved family.
 
  However, on Monday, additional director general of police   set the SP’s order aside. The ADG said, “A judicial probe is looking into the incident, and no FIR can be filed pending the result of the probe. I have sought video footage of panchayat proceedings to ascertain who said what.”
 
  The family of the dead man,  , has alleged that senior police officers have betrayed them to protect their own personnel. “In the mahapanchayat, SP Rajesh Kumar had publicly assured us of a murder case against all the accused cops following which we had called off the agitation. Police backstabbed us and went back on their word to protect the killers of my brother,”  , the victim’s brother, said. 
 
  The Gujjar community led by   leader   had called the mahapanchayat following an indefinite hunger strike by the aggrieved family demanding justice in the custodial death. At the mahapanchayat, the Gujjar community threatened a state-wide stir if their demands were not met.
 
  The family had alleged that Narendra was tortured so much that his nails had come off. Police, however, claimed that Narendra, "an alcoholic and a drug addict", was "mentally unstable" when he was lodged in jail and was in poor health. The post-mortem report had claimed asphyxia due to inhalation of fluids as the reason of death, with no fatal ante-mortem injuries.
 
  The local police was caught off guard following the death of Narendra on April 24. He along with three other accused were lodged in the district jail following their arrest on April 21 in a cow slaughter case. After the family alleged custodial torture and murder, then SSP, Manzil Saini, had ordered a high-level probe in the case.
  
  In his report, Rajesh Kumar had claimed that the four accused were framed in the cow slaughter case at the behest of a village pradhan who wanted to settle old scores with the victim. It was then that SSP Saini suspended three cops, including the Mawana station house officer.
