Keeping the flag of friendship flying high   has brought all four corners of India under one roof. 
 
 Beginning with folk form of South,   master   brought 
  to Bharat Bhawan. The two hours play based on the epic Mahabharat showed a scene from the 13
  day of the great battle. That day Kaurava hatch a conspiracy to trap Arjuna’s son Abhimanyu in Chakravyuh and finish him off. The elaborate dance-drama showed varied emotions of the characters, as the brave and young Abhimanyu, played by Sambandan enters and gets slain by conspirators.
 
  
  
  
 Moving on to North, the much-talked about 
  was staged at Ravindra Bhawan, to a jam packed hall. Written by celebrated playwright Vijay Tendulkar, this play that has been adapted in many languages was banned in 1974 due to its controversial theme and languages. However, the fact that Bhopalis turned up in huge numbers to watch it, made this performance by Himachal Culture Research Forum and Theatre Repertory a huge hit. The play revolves around protagonist Sakharam, a book-binder, who lives life by his own rules. He openly contests the existing marriage system and the hypocrisy it is based on and questions the notion of emotional attachments as crucial to any relationship. Director Suresh Sharma comments, “The audience today is wiser and more open to bolder themes. Cinema too has accepted most of the themes, so why should theatre be left behind.”
 
  
  
 
 Bringing in the freshness and soothing music of North East was 
 , staged at Ravindra Bhavan. The play speaks of a war ravaged bordering village that had to evacuate their happy place due to continuous attacks from Burmese army. It was a moving play that brought forth the plight of migrants who go through various hardships during the journey, and more often than not only a few survive it – as in the case of the protagonist Maya who reaches Assam alone.
 
  
  
 
 Getting audience to groove with their Rajasthani numbers is what these western state’s performers are famous for, and they did it again with their   performance 
 . The traditional khela that travelled from village to village in the state finally came to international performance stage at Theatre Olympics and director   who is striving to conserve this form of art did not leave any stone unturned to leave an impact on the audience. The story depicts a folklore where a devotee of Lord Shiva is slain wrongly by his step-mother who fell in love with him. The lively music and colourful costumes of the performers kept the audience hooked.
 
  
  
 
 Pics credit: Vishesh Sharma
