MUMBAI:The wait for   patients undergoing expensive radiotherapy in private centres is likely to end soon as the facility at Cama and   may restart next week. The facility has been defunct since a year.

 
 But it may be a while before assertions about the state’s apathetic attitude in resolving the issue are put to rest. In June 2017, the facility that was treating around 90 patients daily, broke down triggering a sequence of uncomfortable events for the state.
 
 A three-member team that was formed to investigate the breakdown, incidentally, came back with unexpected findings that ranged from the risk of a radiation leak, hurried opening of the facility in 2013, and even the choice of location—close to labour ward and neonatal ICU at the hospital. Surprisingly, it took a mechanical failure for the state to wake up to these serious concerns.
 
 Varian Medical Systems, a global player in cancer care that built the facility, has refuted any lacunae in the setup.
 
 The panel also blamed bureaucratic apathy for patients’ distress caused in the last 11 months. Varian has claimed that the state dragged its feet in making payments to the tune of Rs 3-4 crore, which forced it to refuse to carry out any repair work after the breakdown last year. Since its opening, nearly 70,000 radiation settings have been carried out.
 
 Under the MoU, Varian was also supposed to maintain the facility for five years and subsequently get into an annual maintenance deal with the government. “Such important contracts were never finalized, which came back to hurt patient care badly,” a senior doctor said.
 
 The tussle between Varian and the state brought back the spotlight to the events under which the centre was inaugurated in 2013. Sources said state authorities expedited the process after a nudge from then Union minister  . “Under pressure, the state decided to open the facility despite not having an occupational certificate (OC) from the BMC and all approvals from the  ,” said a senior doctor. Till date the centre doesn’t have an OC. The state and Varian continue to fight over who should initiate the paperwork with the BMC. “Their payments were held up because of the non-deliverance of the OC,” said Dr Pravin Shingare, head of the Directorate of Medical Education and Research.
 
 “Why should we get an OC? We are not builders, we deal with installing equipment. We handed over the facility to the state but waited for four years to get our dues. The authorities took us seriously only when the machine stopped working,” said Ashok Kakkar, senior MD of  .
 
 In the midst of this, the threemember inquiry committee, that was headed by GT Hospital’s medical superintendent  , has raised concerns about the thickness of the walls and their ability to contain radiation when techniques such as stereotactic radiosurgery (SRS) and stereotactic radiation therapy (SRT) are to be used. In SRS or SRT, a greater combined dose of radiation is given over less time. Dr Shingare said while the company has initiated repair work for now, a second inquiry is likely to look into quality issues. However, questions about delayed payments, missing manpower and permissions are likely to remain unanswered from the state’s end.
 
 
