GURUGRAM: The   ( ), a special purpose vehicle formed to roll out the public transport service, on Thursday selected the agency for procuring and running the first lot of 100 buses that are likely to hit the roads in another three-four months.

 It will procure the  , low-floor buses from a third party and operate them as part of the city   service.
 
  
 The letter of intent will be handed over to the concessionaire (the lowest bidder among four participants) in a couple of days, said Anand Mohan Sharan, principal secretary, the directorate of urban local bodies, Haryana. “The concessionaire will submit a performance bank guarantee, after which the four-month timeline to roll out the buses will start. The concessionaire has the experience of operating city buses in other parts of the country,”   told TOI.
 
 Sharan said the agency would have to submit a prototype of the buses to be rolled out, and get it approved from the department. “Once approved, all the 100 buses, which will run on CNG, will have to be on roads within the remaining one month. While drivers for these buses will be provided by the concessionaire, GMCBL will provide conductors,” he added.
 
 According to officials, a counter offer will be made to the second lowest bidder, asking it to provide the second lot of 100 buses and match the cost quoted by the concessionaire selected on Thursday.
 
 Under the plan, a total number of 500 buses will be launched on the city roads. But, due to paucity of time and other constraints, the government has decided to start the city bus service with just 200 buses on Independence Day this year — a deadline that the authorities may miss.
 
 “We have had a tough time even to get to this stage, and it’s going to be a bigger challenge to have these initial 200 buses on the roads by August 15. There are just three bus manufacturers who make low-floor CNG buses in the country. And they were not very keen to take the work order from us as the number of buses required is not very high,” said a senior official, requesting anonymity.
 
 
