BHOPAL: Nearly 37 percent of children in the age bracket of 14-18 in Bhopal do not know the name of the state they live in, says the   (ASER) 2017 which was released in New Delhi on Tuesday.

 ASER 2017 report — Beyond Basics — has focused on 14-18-year-olds, who have just moved beyond the elementary school and are the first batch to pass out of class VIII after the implementation of the Right to Education Act 2009. 
 
 The survey was carried out in two districts of   — Bhopal and Rewa.
 
 The shocking revelations in the report are a dampener to Madhya Pradesh’s struggle towards quality education.
 
 The survey found out that only 40 per cent of the youth could point out Madhya Pradesh in India’s map.
 
 In the category ‘Map and General Knowledge’, the children were asked to name the state they live in and only 63 per cent of boys and girls could answer the question. They were also asked to identify India on the map and name the country’s capital. Only 81 per cent of the youth could point out India and 65 per cent could name the capital of India.
 
 Coordinator of ASER in MP, Mahindra Yadav said it was very shocking that around 20 per cent youth in Bhopal could not identify India’s map. The numbers are worse in Rewa where 24 per cent of youth could not identify India’s map.
 
 The report released by Pratham education foundation states that while 12 per cent of youth can read standard-I level text, only a quarter of students can read a word.
 
 As for understanding basic mathematics, only 21 per cent students were able to perform subtraction. Significantly, the report states that the number of students who cannot read properly, or solve basic mathematical problems is alarmingly high.
 
 “The students who were surveyed in Bhopal were asked to identify numbers from 10-99. The result was disappointing as only 45.9 per cent of youth surveyed could recognise numbers. Boys’ performance was worse than girls’,” said the report.
 
 The survey also looked at the ability of youth to tell times, access internet, or perform financial calculations. While only 50.2 per cent students could tell time of the clock, only 14 per cent youth could calculate repayments — or perform ‘financial calculations.
 
 Interestingly, despite the government’s claim of a ‘digital India’,   states that 63 per cent youth ion Bhopal have never used the internet, 69 per cent have never used a computer, and 18 per cent have never used a mobile phone.
 
 What is even more shocking is that 90 per cent of boys and girls have never used ATM cards in Bhopal and Rewa. 
 
 
