IMPHAL/KOHIMA/SHILLONG: The ripples of the political imbroglio over government formation in Karnataka could be felt in the three far-flung NE states of Manipur, Nagaland and   on Friday where the opposition has upped the ante against the present dispensation. 

 In Manipur, former CM and   strongman Okram Ibobi Singh met acting governor Jagdish Mukhi to stake claim to form the government on Friday claiming that his organisation had emerged as the single largest party by winning 28 seats in last year's assembly election. In Nagaland, former CM TR Zeliang, in a tweet, said his Nagaland People's Front (NPF), too, will make a similar move.   had won 26 seats in the assembly election earlier this year. 
 
 Ibobi, who ruled Manipur for three consecutive terms, alleged that the BJP-led government in the state should be dismissed imediately as it was sworn in 'illegally' before the 11th Manipur assembly was constituted. In a memorandum to the governor, Ibobi said, "If I am invited to form the government, I assure you that we will provide a stable government and will prove majority on the floor of the House within 15 days or even within a shorter duration." 
 
 Compared to Karnataka, the situation in Nagaland is different. Here,   and Neiphiu Rio's Nationalist Democratic Progressive Party (NDPP) had formed a pre-poll alliance and fought the election together. The alliance had together won 30 seats (NDPP 18 and BJP 12), which is just one short of majority, in the 60-member house. Later, with the support of two legislators from National People's Party (NPP) one from JD(U) and an Independent, the People's Progressive Democratic Alliance (PDA), which was formed by BJP and NDPP together, came to power with Rio as CM on March 8 this year. 
 
 In Meghalaya, Congress, which had emerged as the single largest party by winning 21 seats in the last election, protested against the Karnataka governor's move to swear in a government led by BJP in the southern state. "The most recent examples are Goa (2017), Manipur (2017) and Meghalaya (2018) where Congress emerged as the single largest party but BJP and its post-poll coalition partners were invited to form the government on the ground that they had clear majority," said a petition signed by   president Celistine Lyngdoh, which was submitted to the President through governor Ganga Prasad. 
 
 
