CHANDIGARH: The terms of reference of the 15 Finance   seems to have shrunk the distance between Punjab and the four southern states of Karnataka,   and Kerala and  . Sitting on the northern tip of the country, Punjab is facing the same situation as these states – the possibility of getting less central funds because of the faster pace of development and slower population growth.

 
  
 
 Punjab finance minister   told TOI that they too have questioned the terms of reference. “The central government is penalising ‘high growers’. Its policy is that all of India should grow in tandem but it is not appreciating those who are doing good work,” he said.
 
 The finance minister added, “Punjab had been at the receiving end for a very long time. I don’t know why states showing more development should be punished with less devolution of funds. Population is a criterion for funding by the central government but funds should be given to people, not states.”
 
 On April 11, finance ministers of Kerala, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and the UT of Puducherry had met at Thiruvananthapuram to question the parameters of the terms of reference of the 15th Finance Commission. They felt that the central government was being unjust with progressive states by considering the 2011 census data instead of 1971 census for allocating Union tax revenue. These states say this will reduce their funds since they had been successful in slowing population growth which many other states failed to ensure.
 
 With a population of 2.77 crore as per the 2011 census, Punjab has been successful in controlling its population. The last decadal growth had been recorded at 13.89%. This is even less than Karnataka (15.60%) and Puducherry (28.08%).
 
 Chairman of the Punjab Governance and Ethics Commission, K R Lakhanpal has also questioned the terms of reference. “I have submitted my comments to the Punjab government expressing serious reservations,” said Lakhanpal, a former Punjab chief secretary.
 
 Lakhanpal believes the terms of reference should be revised in consultation with the states. “It is not in keeping with the spirit of federalism much less constitutional rights. It seems to be unilateral,” he said. “This is probably the first time that the central government is trying to nudge the Finance Commission in the direction of its own thinking. In cooperative federalism, which the Prime Minister swears by, what the Centre gives the states through the Finance Commission is not a charity. It is their constitutional right.”
 
 
