NAGPUR: Dr   Satav’s  , which has been trying to tackle malnutrition in   medically since past many years, has come up with a noble way to fight the problem. 

 The Trust is promoting cultivation of vegetables, pulses and cereals in the backyard farm of every tribal home. The experiment has yielded very good results and last year 500 households produced 48,000kg of the produce.
 
 The trust is calling this initiative ‘nutrition farming’ and is insisting that none of these produces be sold in the market. “We want every child in the family to have access to the balanced diet from their own produce. We discourage people to sell their produce and ask them to consume it within the family to fight malnutrition. We have been carrying out this experiment for last few years. Last year, there was a record produce of 48,000kg from 500 families,” said Dr Satav. 
 
 Earlier, the tribals grew only rice. Now they are growing jowar, soyabean, all major vegetables like lady’s finger, carrot, radish, methi, palak, tomato, chilli, 5-8 types of different protein rich beans and peanuts. 
 
 The Trust has taught them scientific selection of crops which include cereals, pulses, vegetables, vegetables rich in vitamins and minerals and oilseeds.
 
 A model farm was set up in the Trust’s premises — an acre’s area housing hospital and residences of doctors and staff — at   in   village. The integrating farming included crops like gram, rajgira, five types of beans, turmeric, chilli, tapioca, sweet potato, linseed fruits like papaya, amla, banana, chikoo and goti tea grass. 
 
 Being a rain-fed area, Melghat gets no water from irrigation projects. So, tribals use the entire waste water from kitchen and houses for maintaining the garden. “The patients visiting the hospital saw the farm and adopted the model gradually,” said Dr Satav.
 
 Dr Satav says that there is a visible change in the health of tribals, especially children. He said the Trust will be monitoring the changes with scientific parameters, comparing them with population which does not have access to balanced diet on large-scale, and publish the results.
 
 “Though we have been using the intervention model which uses ready-to-eat ‘therapeutic foods’ for severe acute malnutrition (SAM) and severe underweight (SUW) and that too has yielded very good results, in the long run cultivating the required food and consuming it is the only solution to malnutrition,” said Dr Satav.
 
 The malnutrition rate in the 17 villages under various projects of   Trust has gone down by 50%. Though the SAM rate in Melghat is about 7-8%, this figure in the project area under Mahan has reduced to just 1%. Similarly, the SUW rate in Melghat is 14-15% while it is 10% in the 17 intervention villages.
 
 
