PUNE: Citizens using the busy   for daily commute may face inconvenience as the construction work on Vanaz-Civil Court Metro route will begin here in a few days.

 The work will start at Paud Phata junction and will be extended on Karve Road towards Nal Stop in a phased manner. The Maharashtra Metro Rail Corporation ( ) has appointed an agency through a tendering process to construct the stations on Vanaz-Civil Court route.
 
 MahaMetro officials said the tender was awarded recently. “There will be eight stations on the route. The work on Vanaz, Anandnagar and Ideal Colony stations will begin on priority basis,” they added.
 
 To prevent inconvenience to commuters and residents alike, the MahaMetro has been holding discussions with the traffic police department about re-arrangement of vehicular movement on Karve Road and at Paud Phata junction.
 
 A proposal for the same has been submitted by MahaMetro to the traffic police. “However, a reply in this regard is still awaited,” the MahaMetro officials said.
 
 
  
  
 
 “We are hoping to receive a communication from the traffic police in the next few days. We have provided the details about locations where the work will begin in the initial phase. We are expecting the traffic police department’s views on the proposed work and detailed plan on the movement of vehicles. The work here is expected to begin in the next two weeks,” they added.
 
 The work at Paud Phata junction will be crucial as it is among the busiest stretches on Karve Road. The MahaMetro has said the corporation will initiate all possible steps to ensure least disruptions to vehicular traffic on Karve Road, Paud Phata and Paud Road during the Metro work.
 
 The MahaMetro has already started civil work of constructing pillars on Paud Road. The work has started from Vanaz and has been taken up in a phased manner up to Paud Phata junction. 
 
 As per the plan, the Metro line will be laid over the median on Karve Road up to Garware high school. 
 
 The route will then move along the river up to the Congress Bhavan junction.
 
 A double-decker flyover has been planned at   to avoid obstruction to vehicular traffic passing through the chowk from   and Mhatre bridge.
 
 Meanwhile, regular commuters on Karve Road and Paud Phata stretch have urged the authorities to deploy traffic wardens round-the-clock as the area is known for frequent traffic snarls. Proper planning should be done before starting the work to avoid congestion here,” they said.
 
 
