Coimbatore: Even as the markets continue to fall, scrips of public sector banks (PSBs) have seen a sharp slide. Stocks of most PSBs hit a 52-week low on the bourses on Tuesday. 

 Andhra Bank, Indian Overseas Bank (IOB), Syndicate Bank, Corporation Bank, Central Bank of India and Oriental Bank of Commerce were among the dozen-odd public sector banks whose shares touched their yearly lows. 
 
 Most PSBs have lost about 9-10% in the last four trading sessions. 
 
 Syndicate Bank was the worst performer in the pack with its scrip falling 5.1% on Tuesday to its 52-week low Rs 60.1. 
 
 The stock has plunged 13.2% so far in February. Both the benchmark Sensex and the broad-based Nifty declined 1.6% on Tuesday. 
 
 The Sensex and Nifty have lost 5.1% and 4.9% respectively since the beginning of the month.
 
 The Central Bank of India and UCO Bank scrips were also among the worst performers. 
 
 While Central Bank of India has slumped 10.5% so far in February, UCO Bank fell nearly 10% during the timeframe. 
 
 “The firming up of bond yields would impact all banks except consumer-oriented ones. The treasury gains will come down and it will dent the bottomline of PSBs,” said G Chokkalingam, founder and managing director, Equinomics Research and Advisory.
 
 “The cost of funds has gone up after the increase in bond yields,” said Vinod Nair, head, research, Geojit Financial Services. 
 
 The yield on the benchmark 10-year G-Secs has increased more than 100 bps (1%) in the last six months, he said.
 
 The yield has moved from around 6.41% at the end of July 2017 to a high of 7.4% in the last week of December and is currently at 7.57%. 
 
 Bond yields have been strengthening across the world and the likelihood of higher cost of funds is roiling stock markets in the developed as well as emerging economies. 
 
 Treasury profits were the only saving grace for banks, especially PSBs, who have been saddled with huge NPAs (non-performing assets). 
 
 The steady decline in bond-yields had resulted in windfall profits for the banking sector, especially during six quarters (Q4 FY2016 - Q2 FY2018). 
 
 Ratings agency ICRA said that banks made treasury gains of approximately Rs 1 lakh crore, which was much higher than the total profit before tax (PBT) of Rs 51,105 crore for the entire banking sector during this period.
 
 Because of their larger share of excess G-sec holdings, public sector banks accounted for most of the treasury gains. 
 
 PSBs got Rs 74,300 crore in treasury gains during the above mentioned period. Despite these sizeable treasury gains, public sector banks reported losses before tax of Rs 48,020 crore during the timeframe.
 
 
 
