CHANDIGARH: Chandigarh Tree Lovers (CTL), a city based group of environmentalists in collaboration with The Times of India on Saturday held its first Tree Walk following the onset of spring season taking cognizance of numerous flowering trees at  , Sector 10. 

 The walk was organised to mark the beginning of the spring season, also known as the flowering season for trees - is the first among a series of walks scheduled to be held in the list of upcoming events.
 
 As many as 28 city residents, comprising of both adults and children participated in the event. Apart from the registered members of the group, a number of non-members and first-timers were also present for the walk. The event commenced at around 8 am and the two-kilometer stretch beginning from the Leisure Valley entrance opposite to the MLA hostel in Sector 3 was completed by 9:30 am.
 
 A host of trees including different varieties of Bauhinia Blakeana, a tree popularly known as kitchanaar, which has heart shaped leaves and whose flower buds are used as an Indian delicacy was explored. In addition, its flower petals are used for decorating cutlery in hotels. Pongamia Glabra, a tree that can be grown anywhere, Mau-sari, an evergreen tree, Magnolia Grandiflora, Michelia Champaca, known as aromatic tree which blooms in March and April, Plumeria, an extremely fragrant tree, Cinnammoum Camphora popularly known as Kapur were familiarized to the participating group members of the walk by Dr  , a former employee with horticulture department and member of Chandigarh Tree Lovers club.
 
 The group was also apprised about Le Corbusier's vision of planting various varieties of aromatic and flowering trees in every sector of the city in order to make the tree an identifying factor on the basis of time of its blooming. "The   tree, which can only be spotted at rare points in the city is considered as a tree which bears the most flowers and blooms around May and June. Now, after all these years, different trees are found at different places but earlier Sector 16 had a galore of Amaltas trees, just like other sectors had their own trees," said Rajnish Wattas, president of Chandigarh Tree Lovers.
 
 "The whole idea behind organising these walks is to make raise awareness about the heritage of plants and trees around. I think it is of utmost importance that we conserve and keep alive the legacy," he stated.
 
 ' ' also known as a 'timber value tree' usually found in the Himalayas. Red wood can be procured from inside its bark and the wood can be smuggled. The wood of Australian Pine, an exotic tree with thin, drooping foliage found at rare locations in India and globally as well were also discussed. The tree is originally a native of   in Australia. Bambic Siba, also known as silk-cotton tree is also one of the first trees to come to bloom and bears scarlet-red flowers with a silky texture. Along with Fish Tail Palm, an ornamental tree was also discussed. The walk concluded at the entrance of the Leisure Valley.
 
 
