NAINITAL: Uttarakhand may well be heading towards a repeat of 2016 when around 4,500 hectares of forests were destroyed in jungle blazes. Already this year, over 2000 hectares of the state’s forests have burnt down and there is still a month left for the onset of monsoons. Incidentally, climatic conditions this year like an unusually dry and long winter have been similar to those witnessed in 2016 which has lent further credence to these fears.
 
  According to the forest department’s nodal office which is collating data on fires, till Wednesday evening, the area affected by blazes in this season (from February onwards) had almost doubled from around 1,200 hectare reported on Tuesday to 2,165 hectare on Wednesday. The economic loss for the 1017 incidents of fire reported across the state since the fire season began has been estimated at Rs 40.72 lakh.
  
  Providing further details, BP Gupta, chief conservator (forest fire and disaster management) said, “Out of the total 1017 incidents, 483 have been reported in Garhwal forest divisions while 308 were in forest divisions of Kumaon and 226 in the Shivalik area. The affected area in Garhwal is 1225.55 hectare while in Kumaon, a total of 650.73 hectares area was lost due to fires. The loss in Shivalik is estimated to be around 288.93 hectares.”
  
  Officials said that areas in Garhwal, especially Pauri district were the most affected. In   area of Pauri district, a government school was closed for a day on Tuesday as fire from the forest area reached the school building. Similarly, in Bhatraujkhan area of Almora district, a school was closed following fires in the nearby forest. On Wednesday, students returning home from school through the Maalna-Pataara road in   received minor burns after they were singed by a forest fire. The road was closed thereafter.
  
  Areas in Kumaon like Nainital and Pithoragarh saw a brief respite because of a short spell of rain. However, officials said that the short-term rain will not aid much in fire-fighting efforts. “Occasional short duration rains are not a permanent remedy. We will be pressing on with our fire-fighting measures,” said Gupta.
