Vadodara: World’s most expensive pearl carpet, ‘Star of the South’ - one of the largest diamonds in the world- or the ‘Moon of Baroda’, the diamond which Hollywood sex symbol Marilyn Monroe had worn for promotion of her film ‘Gentlemen Prefer Blondes’, all these priceless pieces of jewellery, once a part of Baroda’s royal treasury, are no longer in India.  But Radhikaraje Gaekwad, member of royal family of erstwhile Baroda state, believes that Barodians should get a chance to take a glimpse of this heritage.  “All these jewels were made with high level of craftsmanship because of the royal patronage. Indians need to get a chance to see these fabulous works which were made in India, for Indians and the craftsman too were Indians,” said Radhikaraje, who delivered a lecture on ‘Baroda crown jewels’ as part of Viraasat lecture organized by Heritage Trust to mark World Heritage Day.  Pearl canopy, which was commissioned by the then Maharaja of Baroda Khanderao Gaekwad, for instance, is presently in possession of the royal family of Qatar.  “The owner is happy to organize exhibitions across the globe. We need to make it accessible to Indians as well,” she said.  While much is known about Khanderao Gaekwad’s love for fine jewels, Radhikaraje has also come across some little known facts while documenting the Gaekwadi patronage.  “There are documents which show that Maharaja Sayajirao Gaekwad III had liquidated some jewellery to set up a trust which later established Baroda Museum and Picture Art Gallery,” she said, adding that Sayajirao himself had fondness for precious items but it was unlike the lavishness of his predecessors.  “Maharani Chimnabai II (Sayajirao’s second wife) would accompany her husband to foreign trips. She also consulted Baroda jewellers so that they just don’t go by the brand name but also the value of the items they purchased,” she said.  “There are correspondences between the royal treasury and her where she would follow the exchange rates of dollars and pounds based on which decisions of selling and purchasing items would be made,” said Radhikaraje, adding that there are a number of books in Marathi which detail out the jewellery that Gaekwad’s owned.  “In fact, Cartier had prepared 14 sketches but it was on the advice of Baroda jewellers that the deal did not realize,” she said, while stressing that Baroda state never suffered because of the love for the jewels that the erstwhile rulers had.  “As the privy purses were abolished and there were homes of ‘darjis’, ‘musicians’ and ‘karigars’ to take care off, thus these were the first things that got liquidated,” she said. 