Hyderabad: Kicking off the Corporate Insolvency Resolution Process (CIRP) against debt-strapped city-based infrastructure player   Ltd, the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT)’s Hyderabad bench has ordered the appointment of an Interim Resolution Professional (IRP). 

 The orders were issued following an insolvency petition filed by the State Bank of India (SBI), to whom IVRCL owes over Rs 604 crore as on October 22, 2017. The petition was filed under Section 7 of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code 2016 (IBC).
 
 The NCLT, Hyderabad, bench comprising Ravikumar Duraisamy, member (technical) and Rajeswara Rao Vittanala, member (judicial), has appointed Kolkata-based insolvency professional Sutanu Sinha as the IRP for IVRCL and has imposed a moratorium of 180 days from the date of issuance of order (February 23, 2018).
 
 The moratorium puts a 180-day freeze on any new lawsuits, pending suits or legal proceedings against IVRCL, including execution of any judgment, decree or order in any court of law, tribunal, arbitration panel or any other authority.
 
 This also means that IVRCL or its officials cannot transfer, encumber, alienate or dispose of any of the company’s assets and neither can any lender foreclose or recover any assets pledged by IVRCL even under the Sarfaesi Act. The moratorium also ensures that no lessor or owner of any property occupied by IVRCL can proceed with recovery of the property.
 
 The court has directed the IRP to schedule meetings of the concerned parties and carry out the verification to ensure that the CIRP is completed well before the prescribed 180-day moratorium as per the IBC Code.
 
 Following the appointment of IRP, all the powers of the IVRCL board of directors stand suspended and now vest with the IRP, who will manage the affairs of the company. As part of the CIRP, all the IVRCL officials will have to report to the IRP and provide access to all documents and records demanded by the IRP, who will be authorized to execute documents in the name of IVRCL.
 
 The IRP, who took charge, has over the weekend, issued a public announcement inviting creditors to submit their claims on or before March 15, 2018.
 
 As per the order issued by NCLT, Hyderabad, SBI had sanctioned a total debt of over Rs 1145 crore to IVRCL in various tranches and the bank disbursed over Rs 898 crore to the company in lieu of mortgage of several land parcels in Tamil Nadu as well as share pledges. 
 
 The insolvency petition against the beleaguered IVRCL, which is saddled with a total debt of over Rs 10,000 crore, came after its attempts to go for a corporate debt restructuring (CDR) came to naught after the consortium of around 20 lenders led by SBI exited the CDR in October last year. The Rs 7350 crore CDR package was approved by the lenders in mid-2014 as part of attempts to turn around the cash-strapped infra player.
 
 The woes of IVRCL have been mounting and it was in May 2017 that the Mumbai bench of NCLT had ordered corporate insolvency resolution proceedings against IVRCL’s industrial EPC arm Hindustan Dorr-Oliver Ltd, in which it holds 55% stake.
 
 
