BENGALURU: Is organizing a legislature session close to the assembly polls a waste of time and taxpayers’ money? If one goes by the attendance and mood during the five-day session that ended on Friday, the answer seems to be ‘yes’.

 Though a sizeable number of legislators attended the joint session addressed by governor Vajubhai R Vala on the first day (Monday), only 20-30 members participated in the debate on the motion of thanks to the governor’s address over the next four days.
 
 The situation was worse on Friday, with only 18 members, including seven from  , 10 from   and one from JD(S), attending the debate on the  . The session was delayed by 1 hour and 20 minutes due to lack of quorum. Legislators visiting their constituencies was probably the reason for their absence.
 
 As per quorum norms, at least 24 members are required to be present (of the total 224) in the house for proceedings to begin. Endorsing the views of opposition leaders, former speaker and health minister K R Ramesh Kumar said: “What’s the point of continuing with the session if members lack seriousness? Friday’s quorum has made me rethink the purpose of holding the legislature session. This is simply not done and certainly not good for democracy.”
 
 What was evident on all five days was the lack of interest, especially from ruling party members. The budget session starting next Friday is not likely to be different, other than the day when   will present the state budget (February 16).
 
 Speaker K B Koliwad made his dissatisfaction public on numerous occasions, but to little avail. Most replies from the government lacked sincerity and had only political colour. Council chairman D H Shankaramurthy also took the floor leaders to task for displaying a lax attitude in responding to opposition queries.
 
 About a dozen starred questions also went unanswered as the ministers, including the CM, sought time to gather details. “We require time and will provide the answers during the budget session,” was the common refrain from ministers and the CM.
 
 
 
 
 The disinterest also reflected in the unstarred or written replies as the government provided answers to only 25 of 100 questions on each day. “I have been seeking response to a single question over how many posts have been filled for the Hyderabad-Karnatak region under article 371-J special status, accorded to its six districts since four years. But I am yet to get a reply. Though they have assured me of a reply in the budget session, I’m sure I won’t get it,” said BJP legislator  .
 
 “No government should take the legislature session so lightly. Parties may change but government is a continuous process,” said leader of opposition in the assembly Jagadish Shettar.
 
