BENGALURU: Shaking off the holiday languor, Bengalureans from across age groups thronged street corners to condemn two heinous incidents which have rattled the nation — the gangrape and murder of an eight-year-old girl in Kathua, Jammu and Kashmir, and rape of a 17-year-old girl from Unnao, Uttar Pradesh. Demanding justice, they held silent protests in their neighbourhoods on Sunday evening.

 Even social media forums were abuzz as participants vented their ire and posted pictures with the hashtag #mystreetmyprotest. The last time Bengalureans banded together in such large numbers was during the Bangalore Apartments’ Federation rally last December. Even the anti-steel flyover protest in 2016 witnessed a groundswell of support.
 
 Silence enveloped the Indian Institute of Science on Sunday as students painted posters carrying messages like ‘justice delayed is justice denied’ and ‘supporting rapists in the name of religion is just as bad as being a rapist’. Organised by the IISc Family and Friends Forum and IISC Students Council, the protest saw participants, armed with candles, observe one minute of silence. 
 
 “The investigation of rapes and murders shouldn’t be communalised or politicised, but conducted in an unbiased and fair manner,” said a student.
 
 As part of #mystreetmyprotest, citizens staged peaceful protests at street corners from   to Jakkur and Richmond Town to  . In Whitefield, senior citizens were seen rallying with walking sticks in one hand and placards in the other. In Cooke Town, young children waved banners demanding justice for the Kathua child.
 
 ‘Rape is constant, only names change’
 
 “With girls and women being raped every day, it’s only the names of victims or survivors which keep changing. But rape is constant. Even after the horrific incident in Kathua, two or three more rapes and assaults in other parts of the country have come to light. Justice should be dispensed and the criminals brought to book as soon as possible,” said students Rahmat Asfiya and  .
 
 ‘Don’t mar kids’ future’
 
 Auto driver Zameer Ahmed, who was part of the protest in Richmond Town, said: “Kids are innocent. They have a bright future, which is being jeopardised at such a young age. This is neither right nor fair. People shouldn’t misuse their power. This is a crime frowned upon by every religion. So, the perpetrators will be punished.”
 
 TWITTERATI SPEAKS OUT
 
 Sherry Mary Jacob: Bangalore protests in silence for a silenced child. Thank you for speaking up #Bangalore #MyStreetMyProtest #Justice4RapeVictims #NotInMyname
 
 Zibi Jamal of Whitefield Rising: “We stood at the Inorbit mall corner in Whitefield. It gives me hope that men and women joined us off the streets. Even bus drivers took posters to display on their dashboards
 
 Ajeet: Senior citizen joining #mystreetmyprotest Atishi Road, Whitefield, Bangalore! Demand fast tracked #unnaokathua
 
 
