Sushmita Konidela maybe Superstar Chiranjeevi’s daughter, but she has a megastar persona herself. It seems the city’s fashionistas take a leaf or two out of her page and her sunglasses are the ones to watch out for. The lady, who loves her sunglasses, we hear, shops from some of the best brands in the world. Also, her gourmet interests are fast making her a go-to girl for impressive menus for dinner parties. 
 
  
 
 The rainbow brigade is abuzz that the duo of muscular hunks known for their undying friendship and constant fitness posts on Facebook are ‘on call’ for their clients 24/7. But what's even more surprising is that these lads respond to a ‘stud call’ and not the ‘siren call’!  , if Facebook screenshots are to be believed, one of them offers to please for 5k and the other is more than okay as long as the venue is a 5-star hotel. God bless their iron man bods! Or wait, Should I say bunny behinds? 
  
  
 
 The overnight rise of Oviya’s reputation, thanks to her many tears and bouts of laughter on a reality show, had garnered her a steady support base. This clutch of   fans, who like to be addressed as her army, are still active, says a source. Last heard, some comment on her social networking page had her army shoot down the unsuspecting girl with their virtual gun. Let’s just hope they buy her movie tickets with as much vigour as they show in expressing aggression. 
  
  
 Why has the coterie around the quintessential bad boy of K-town disappeared? It seems with his weight gain, also grew his ego and frustration. Last heard, his hangers-on are now tailing Reality Show stars and newer heroes in the industry. 
  
  
 
 The reason why Archana   is a coveted guest list name is because she is mysterious and stays away from the social media spotlight. A reputed film industry biggie had this to say at a party, recently, “while so many in the industry are busy networking and complimenting everyone on FB to gain goodwill, This Kalpathi girl is more desirable because she is distant and diva-like.” Maybe some filmi folk can take a lesson on adding enigma to their person from Archie. 
  
  
 This so-called ‘bachelor’ whose wife has just delivered, is living it up with his friends. Last spotted, he was hosting a barbecue party late into the night while his wife and kid were away at her mother’s place. The excuse — ‘freedom’. It seems the hottie is bored of the confines of marriage and his creative wife’s many rules. His friends have also been trying to get him to venture out because he is their main source of moolah! 
 
 
 (Views expressed above are the author’s own) 
 
 
 
 
 
