MUMBAI: The demand by 85-year-old Hindutva leader   for a review of the SC and ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act has been received with trepidation. Observers say Bhide’s demand is likely to foment trouble in a state already reeling under caste tensions in the wake of the Koregaon Bhima clash.

 The Act is a contentious issue between Dalits and Marathas. Bhide, in an interview to a Marathi news channel on Monday, said it needs to be toned down in view of widespread complaints that it was being misused in the rural heartland to settle personal scores.
 
 “The government should seek the opinion of elected representatives, social scientists and intellectuals on how to make the act effective and how to contain its misuse,” said Bhide, who is accused by the Prakash Ambedkar-led Bharip Bahujan Mahasangh of fomenting trouble in Koregaon Bhima on January 1 when Dalits had congregated in large numbers to pay tribute to Mahar soldiers who died in the British-Peshwa war of 1818. “Charges (of spreading communal hatred) against me amount to murder of democracy and individual liberty,” he said.
 
 “Ambedkar keeps parroting the lines as he is tutored to do so,” Bhide said, accusing the   of distorting history.
 
 The demand by Bhide, a MSc (physics) gold medallist and former professor at Fergusson College in Pune, strengthens his bond with Marathas in the Satara-Sangli belt and bolsters the community’s case that the act is being blatantly misused. Matters may now become difficult for the regime of chief minister Devendra Fadnavis as the Marathas plan to revive their stir next month for job reservation and a drastic review of the Prevention of Atrocities Act. Such a move may further anger Dalits, who are opposed to any move to dilute the 1989 legislation. 
 
 Describing the act as the “armour” of the Dalits, J V Pawar, general secretary, Bharip-Bahujan Maha Sangh, said attempts to “weaken” it would be severely opposed by his party.
 
 Denying the charge that he created trouble at Koregaon Bhima, Bhide said: “Prior to the January 1 event, false messages were being circulated on social media that I was going to speak the same day at Koregaon Bhima. However, I was not present there at all,” he said.
 
 “Those who lost power (to the  ) in 2014 are behind the mischief as they are desperate to get back to power,” he said, indicating the Congress-NCP was fanning the flames of communal disharmony in the state. “Do a quick re-cap of events that have rocked Maharashtra after the 2014 polls — the farmer stir, the Maratha morchas and the agitation of the Lingayat community... To quote Shakespeare, there is method in madness,” he said.
 
 Bhide, though, was quick to add that Sharad Pawar was not behind the caste clashes.
 
 
