New Delhi: In the middle of a tug of war between the AAP government and the BJP-ruled civic bodies over funds, BJP’s   on Sunday anticipated a sanitation crisis. This he claimed was due to the   government not allocating funds to the civic bodies. 

 Gupta wrote to LG   and sought his intervention to get funds for the corporations. East and north corporations are cash-strapped and even unable to regularly pay sanitation workers, forcing them to resort to multiple strikes in a year. In the letter, Gupta accused the AAP government of “crippling” the corporations. 
 
 “The budgetary allocations under urban development and transport to the three civic bodies are zero in the 2018-19 budget,” Gupta claimed in the letter. 
 
 Though the budget was presented over a month ago, Gupta stumbled upon this information only a few days ago. He said the AAP government had allocated Rs 1,228.42 crore for urban development and transport sectors in the 2017-18 budget. 
 
 The Delhi government allocates funds to civic bodies under four major heads—urban development, education, medical and transport. “Collection of garbage, and maintaining and strengthening the existing infrastructure engaged in sanitation services could be worst hit, especially in cash-strapped north and east corporations because funds allocated under the UD head are mostly spent on it,” Gupta said.
 
 The corporations have been alleging that they are being starved of funds by the Delhi government. But the AAP government has said that it has been denied its due share in central taxes, but would split the funds it gets from the Centre whenever it gets a fair share. Nevertheless, an official AAP spokesperson said the the government has released to the east corporation Rs 1,239.05 crore in 2016-17 and Rs 1,002.64 crore in 2017-18 (up to January). The amount paid to the north corporation was Rs 1,921.02 crore in 2016-17 and Rs 1,711.94 crore in 2017-18 (up to January).
 
 Gupta, however, said it was all being done by the Kejriwal government due to political reasons. 
 
 
