Kavita Sahu, 17, did not know that the secret she was keeping to save family reputation could one day be the cause of her death. Had she known what brutal end awaited her and her brother, Gaurang Sahu, 15, she would have spilled the beans long ago about a close relative’s evil obsession.
 
 On December 16, 2011,  , mother of Kavita and Gaurang, reached home in Sector 41 and found her daughter lying in a pool of blood, with stab marks on her body and her throat slit. A shocked Malti rang up the cops, who found not one but two bodies on the scene of crime. “Both her children had been murdered,” Investigation officer   said. “The woman was grieving only for her daughter until we got there and told her that her son, too, had fallen
 
 
 prey to someone’s gruesome act. Gaurang lay dead in another room with his throat slit. Her world had shattered within seconds.”
 
 In one of the interviews, Malti Devi had told the media: “There was a seminar that day at my school and when I came back from it, I saw the doors of my house ajar. I walked in and saw my daughter lying lifeless on the bed. I don’t know how I stood that sight. The image still haunts me and I have spent many sleepless nights just thinking about my children.”
 
 
 
 
 In the primary investigation, police found a striped sweater from the scene of crime. “This was our first clue and something was odd about it. It appeared that someone familiar had come into the house as the children were preparing tea. But who?” the officer said. “We also recovered a bundle of beedi and a matchbox from the spot.” Malti's husband was at Faridabad then.
 
 Police found out that Kavita had a close friend,  , but interrogating him yielded no lead or evidence, except one thing. “Siddharth recalled that Kavita had once told him that her maternal uncle lusted after her,” the inspector said. “Siddharth and Kavita were serious about their relationship and keen to get married.”
 
 Police parties were sent out to look for the source of the beedi bundle and the matchbox. Along with the sweater, the cops also found a blood-stained knife on the spot.
 
 Inspector Amanjot said: “Some of the neighbours told us they had seen someone entering the house in that sweater and coming out in a loi (a kind of shawl). The two clues led police to the siblings’ uncle, Rahul, 28.
 
 
 
 
 Rahul used to lust after Kavita and, on the day of the crime, had come over to take advantage of her, though she used to resist his attempts,” Amanjot said. “Rahul accepted during his interrogation that he had tried to molest his niece even on a few earlier occasions and, on the day of the murder, she had told her brother about it. Rahul’s attempt to give justifications led to a heated argument between the two, during which Rahul took out a knife and stabbed Gaurang repeatedly. A well-built Gaurang fought back as long as he could but his uncle had turned into a beast. Rahul then entered Kavita’s room and, angered by her resisting and screaming, stabbed her to death next.” After committing the murders, Rahul tried to make it appear as a scene of robbery to fool the cops.
 
 Rahul was a drug addict and, on that day, he was too intoxicated to know right from wrong. With the blood of his niece and nephew on his hands, Rahul absconded and remained on the run until January 18, 2012, when he fell into a police trap. Inspector Amanjot claims Rahul was under the illusion that Kavita, too, was interested in him.
 
 After more than two years, a local court convicted Rahul of killing Kavita and Gaurang. The murderer was awarded impris-
 
 
 
 
 onment for lifetime. He would remain behind bars for the rest of his natural life. The court of additional district and sessions judge Shalini Nagpal also slapped a penalty of Rs 50,000 on him.
 
 Relying heavily on circumstantial evidence, the court held that the forensic findings adduced by the prosecution were clear and convincing enough to prove the guilt of the accused. The prosecution had although sought death penalty for the guilty.
 
