LUCKNOW: Despite being the state capital, Lucknow does not have a single mechanised slaughterhouse. People get meat from local butchers and roadside shops which slaughter animals wherever they can, in unhygienic conditions.

 The UP Municipal Corporation Act 1959’s sections 421 to 432 say that every municipal body must provide a mechanised slaughterhouse in its city but in Lucknow, no such facility exists. Though Lucknow had one old slaughterhouse at   operating for many years, it was stopped last year after the UP Pollution Control Board denied it a licence on grounds of flouting pollution norms.
 
  had proposed to build a modern abattoir in Bindauva in Mohanlalganj in 2010 but the project has been in the pipeline. The Rs 64-crore project was to get Rs 52 crore from a private company and Rs 12 crore from LMC. However, the project never took off because of the state government’s reluctance.
 
 An LMC official said, “LMC had identified land for the abattoir, a company was also roped in and boundary walls were erected. The project was shelved at the last minute after the state government denied funds to LMC.”
 
 The end result is that there is no organised slaughterhouse in the city. More than a thousand unorganized butcher shops and roadside vendors supply unlicensed meat to residents. This meat has no assurance of quality or hygiene.
 
  of Paper Mill Colony said, “Last year, the government seemed to be so concerned about the issue that we thought we would get to eat hygienic meat. But due to lack of its will, more butchers have cropped up in the past year. Neither is the government showing any intention to build mechanised slaughterhouses nor is it ensuring that only licensed vendors exist in the city.”
 
 Though it is LMC’s responsibility to build an abattoir, the licence has to be granted to meat suppliers by the   (FSSAI).
 
 Among the estimated thousand meat vendors in the city, FSSAI has been able to file a case against only about 80.
 
 FSSAI designated officer   said, “In the past year, we have filed cases only against 80 meat suppliers. I know the crackdown has been slow but we are ensuring that all come under the government’s scanner.”
 
 Principal secretary of Food and Drug Administration Himanshu Shukla said once a government agency builds an abattoir, FDA will take care of the quality and hygiene inside.
 
