CHENNAI: An undertrial vomited blood at the government   and died on Saturday but not before telling doctors that he had been beaten severely by the Kodungaiyur police in custody. Entries in the prison register said the man had injuries all over his body and one of his arms was fractured. Last week, an official under the assistant education officer in Kancheepuram district died in the custody of the Chunambedu police. 

 The Kodungaiyur police had on April 25 arrested A Satish Kumar alias 'Javvu' Satish, a 28-year-old resident of Moolakothalam in Kodungaiyur, after a few residents caught him while he was trying to flee during a robbery bid. The next day a city court sent him to the   at Puzhal where he was detained in the remand prisoners block.
 
 On May 3, Satish took ill and was admitted to the prison hospital where he was given basic treatment. After he complained of severe stomach pain, he was shifted on Friday to   GH where he died early on Saturday.
 
 After they were informed of his death, Satish's family members claimed that the Kodungaiyur police had in custody hit him in the stomach and that the the severe beating led to his death. They demanded action against those responsible for the death. The Puzhal police registered a case under the CrPC Section 174 (unnatural death).
 
 When contacted, an officer of the Kodungaiyur police said that the suspect had been nabbed during a robbery attempt by members the public and that they had thrashed him before handing him over to the police. "Satish was badly injured when our team arrived at the place. We rescued the man and he was treated at the hospital before remanding him in judicial custody the prison," said the officer.
 
 While he was in their custody, the Kodungaiyur police had questioned Satish to check if he had been involved in any other offences in the city. 
 
 
 
 
 At least six robbery incidents had been reported in Pulianthope police district in April alone and investigators suspect Satish was involved in all these cases. The police also made inquiries with him in an effort to try and nab his accomplices involved in similar robberies and waylaying incidents.
 
 A police officer said, “If there is any doubt in his death, we will forward the case to a magistrate to conclude the case.”
 
 On Tuesday last, the Chunambedu police had detained Sitrarasu, an official in the school education department in Kancheepuram district, for questioning after he attacked his neighbour Jagan, a resident of Chunambedu colony near Madurantakam. Sitrarasu, who alleged that his neighbour had been trying to get him sacked from the education department to take revenge on him due to previous enmity, allegedly died in police custody. A magistrate inquiry is pending in the case.
 
 
 
