CHANDIGARH: In the wake of protests by students,   has relaxed the entry timings of hostel for girl students by an hour. As per the new rules, they can enter their hostels till 11 pm instead of the earlier deadline of 10.30 pm. The decision will be implemented in the next few days on an experimental basis for at least two months. 

 Confirming the decision, Dean, Students Welfare (DSW)   said, “The entry timing has been extended to 11 pm. We have kept a one-hour window for unavoidable circumstances as per which entry up to midnight will be allowed. The fine for late entry has been reduced to Rs 100. Research scholars can take permission for their late night work.”
 
 The demand for the relaxed timings for girl students was raised by the Panjab University Campus Student’s Council (PUCSC) and other political parties.   had submitted its charter of demands to the Dean, Student Welfare (DSW) Office on the basis of feedback forms collected through the ‘Pinjra Tod’ campaign, a movement demanding equality of rights for female students.
 
 Explaining the need to extend the entry time of girls’ hostel to midnight, Vani Sood, Secretary, PUCSC said, “The rules are different for boys. It sounds discriminatory. Security has to be enhanced first.” 
 
 PUCSC also listed the representation of the Student Council, Transgender and PhD scholars in Panjab University Committee Against Sexual Harassment (PUCASH). Other demands included a 24x7 student helpline number, installation of suggestion boxes at VC Office, Student Centre, AC Joshi Library and hostels. 
 
 Earlier, PUCSC and Student Organisation of India (SOI) locked horns over the demands for new hostel rules. The conflict between the two organisations arose due to difference in initial demands for  . While the PUCSC had demanded 12 midnight as the timing for the entry of girls, SOI had vouched for a 24-hour entry to the hostels. 
 
 SOI members on Thursday staged protests in the university in support of their demand for relaxation in hostel timings. SOI members blocked the Gate no. 3 of the university in the afternoon. They raised slogans for the gender equality, women empowerment in the campus. 
 
 Emmanuel Nahar, DSW and Neena Caplash, DSW(Women) met the agitating SOI members in the evening. 
 
  Decisions on hostel rules 
 
  • Hostel entry timings extended to 11 pm from 10.30 pm. Under unavoidable circumstances, timings can be extended up to 12 midnight
 
 • Maximum fine of Rs 100 as a deterrent
 
 • No restrictions for Research Scholars
 
 Photo Quotes
 
 "We are not satisfied with the change. We will do class-to-class campaign and continue to protest for 24-hour entry into hostels." 
 
 Gurpreet, member, Student for Society (SFS)
 
 "If guys can have a 24-hour entry, then why not the girls? In classrooms, they teach the theme of Equality before law and outside the classroom, they cannot implement it. If we can choose the Prime Minister of India, aren't we sensible enough to enter hostels at our will? 
 
 Amandeep, member Punjab Student Union (Lalkaar)
 
 "It is a big reason to rejoice for girls in the university. If you give women freedom, only then will they feel empowered. On behalf of the party, I appreciate the move to provide relaxation to research scholars and dissertation students." 
 
 Ankita Chaudhary, Indian National Students Organisation ( ) 
 
 
