LUCKNOW: The   (CISCE), which conducts ICSE (class X) and ISC (class XII) examinations will inquire into   holding the ISC examinations in an “open space”.

 On Thursday, TOI lensman clicked photographs of students writing the exam in the open. Plastic chairs and tables were placed and children were seated in rows and columns under a tent.
 
 It was the first major theory exam for ISC.
 
 “It is in keeping with the rules for the conduct of the examination. Besides, there is no hall large enough to accommodate the large number of candidates. Moreover, the place where the exam is organised is not an open space. It is a multi-activity hall under development,” principal Carlyle McFarland told TOI.
 
 CISCE chief executive and secretary Gerry Arathoon told TOI: “This is not per the council’s rules. We will inquire into this. I will be in a position to comment after we are through with the investigation as to why and how the board exams are being held in an open space.”
 
 “We can’t have six separate halls for conducting exams. It is right to hold the examinations the way they are being held,” said McFarland. Late on Thursday evening, McFarland posted two photographs on his personal social media page with a comment: “At the end of the first major Council examination today. A silent hall at dusk. I am grateful to Peter Fanthome, erstwhile MLA, for providing this multi-activity facility. It is being used for the first time for an examination. An unprecedented number of 378 candidates makes this a record of sorts.”
 
 “Timely planning for fans, flooring, drinking water, etc has made this comfortable. Work is in progress for the next phase. Teething troubles still,” the post added. Replying to the post, the school bursar wrote, “Best wishes to all the boys in the CISCE examination 2018. Fortunately, the College has this facility now. Imagine where we would accommodate this huge number of pupils. Spence Hall is just too small.”
 
 According to a document shared by McFarland, there are 237 and 378 pupils registered for class XII and class X examination respectively.
 
 
