The sudden network blackout of  , a mobile service provider, a fortnight ago has put thousands of users in distress. Users first experienced trouble in the last week of February when suddenly they could not contact anyone using the mobile network. Though things improved somewhat after that and service seemed to be getting back to normal, subsequently, the service provider sent a message to customers telling them that there will be difficulties in remaining connected. 
 At a time when several service providers are queuing up to give you new connections, what is the big thing in one network going off the grid, some may ask. But the fact is that for several thousands of customers, it’s either an emotional attachment to their number or a one-point of contact to transact their business. 
 KPV Kumar, a businessman, who has been using the connection for more than a decade says, “All my clients have this number with them and for the last two weeks my business has suffered beyond means. I have listed this number in all the business directories and it’s not easy to move on to another number and expect the same kind of response from clients.” S Vijayalakshmi, a homemaker from Ambattur is perplexed as to how she can book a refill for LPG. “I had attached this number at the gas agency and since the shutdown I am unable to book a refill," she laments. 
 Boopalan, a social activist from RK Nagar, grieves, “My mother is a retired government official and since the network blacked out without any notice, she is unable to do any banking transaction. There are hundreds of senior citizens who have an Aircel connection, but are clueless on what is happening.”
 The biggest problem customers are facing is with regard to porting. Vasan, who runs a mobile recharge shop, says, “There are so many requests for porting and their servers are obviously under stress. It’s almost impossible to cater to such large number of porting requests. In addition, even if the porting code is generated, the customers need to clear their dues for porting to happen.”
 M Raja, an entrepreneur, says, “I got a text message last week from the service provider about the bill and after some struggle, I made the payment, too. Now, I have obtained the porting code, but service is yet to be activated.”
 However, for Kumar, making the payment itself has been a problem. He says, “Their online billing gateway is not working and most of their bill collection centres remain closed. I came to know that one centre in Chinna Malai is functioning. When I went there, they said they wouldn’t be able to issue a receipt even if I make a cash payment. Now, I have deposited a cheque in their collection box and I’m waiting for some miracle to happen to port my number.”
 The question that is on every customer’s mind is why didn’t the company inform them in advance and provide a way out. K Manoj, a media professional, asks, “Is there not any law that protects the interests of the customers? Is this how a corporate shuts down its business? Why can’t the service provider automatically send the port out number to its customers, or   instruct them to do so?”
 Lawyer and columnist   says that aggrieved customers can file a complaint in the consumer court. “A mobile number is like a user’s alter ego. When everything, from gas connection to bank account, are linked to it, portability is a necessity. Migration, either by choice or circumstances, like the closure of a company, must be seamless, Any deficiency in service or unfair trade practice is actionable under Sections 2(1)(G) and 2(1)(R) of the Consumer Protection Act. Compensation for mental agony can be claimed,” he says. 
 Meanwhile, the   has issued notices to the   and TRAI on a PIL filed by one G Saravanakumar, requesting steps to resume the company’s mobile phone services. He wanted the court to direct the company to restore mobile portability service, enabling the customers to migrate their numbers to other network providers. The bench has posted the plea to March 19 for further hearing.
 AP Swamy, an auditor, says, “Since the company has voluntarily applied for bankruptcy, only TRAI can take a decision on this.” He explains, “Earlier, it took several years for the proceedings to end, but as per the new norms, things can be wound up within three months. And depending on the liabilities of the company, whatever is remaining will be divided among the customers and we can expect that at least a portion of the customer’s deposit will be refunded.”
 
