JODHPUR: Police arrested an   applicant associated with an RTI organization of the city from his house on Saturday. A large band of policemen swooped down upon his house, manhandled him and took him away with them.

 Interestingly, the investigation in this complaint against him has already been handed over to the CID (CB) on February 16, just a day before the police action on Saturday.
 
 RTI activist   had been constantly seeking information from the  , Jodhpur exposing series of irregularities in the university regarding misuse of funds and recruitment of staff.
 
 In one such attempt to extract information from the university, Vyas and colleagues from his organization Jagriti, he had allegedly been attacked by the staff of the university and a case against them had been filed by him with the police.
 
 “In a counter move, a Section Officer of the university Khimanath had filed a complaint against Vyas under SC/ST Act. But in an inquiry, Khimanath was found to be from   category and not the SC/ST category”, said one of his co-activist Goverdhan Singh.
 
 He said that this move of the police was a big blow to the efforts of the whistle blowers to expose the corrupt in the system and the police in connivance of these corrupts and that too acting on a fabricated case against him.
 
 “The way he was arrested from the house, beaten up and hackled by the policemen, was an indication as if he was a hardcore criminal”, he said.
 
 Members of Jagriti have given a complaint to the police commissioner against his arrest terming it to be unlawful and coercive.
 
 Ashok Rathore, Jodhpur Police Commissioner, denying the allegations on police said that the file of the case was presently with the police and whatever police have done was as per law. “We have no information that the case has been handed over to the CID (CB). The file till date is with us”, he said.
 
 He also claimed that Vyas had not been cooperating with the police in investigation, so the police had to arrest him from his home denying that the police had misbehaved with him.
 
 
