NAGPUR: Mumtaz, the word itself is enough to jolt an image of a poised enchanting lady in our mind, a superstar well-known for her action and romantic roles alike. This yesteryears’ acclaimed actress’s songs were celebrated on Sunday evening in a musical concert titled ‘Bollywood Diaries - Adayein   Ki’. The event was organized by Bharat Rang Kala at   in Laxmi Nagar and was jam-packed with the actress’s fans, some of whom were even sitting on the aisle.

 The concert started in a unique way with a chorus presentation of first ‘mukhdas’ of a few of her hit songs like ‘Le jayenge le jayenge’, ‘Sunn champa sunn tara’ and ‘Suno... kaho, kaha... suna, kuchh hua kya’ which provided a glimpse of the delightful musical night that lay ahead. The songs chosen, just like Mumtaz’s roles, portrayed an array of emotions on stage — ranging from sad to romantic to peppy. ‘Bindiya chamkegi’ and ‘Tauba ye matwali chaal’ were highlight of the evening and ‘Aajkal tere mere pyar ke charche’ made the audience sway their heads and tap their feet.
 
 Mumtaz starred in numerous blockbuster movies throughout her career which had many mesmerizing tracks. And to name a few, songs from ‘Loafer’ (Motiyon ki ladi hoon main), ‘Tere Mere Sapne’ (Ae maine kasam li), ‘Ek Naari Ek Bramhachari’ (Ye pyaar toh milan hai) and ‘Mere Sanam’ (Ye hai reshami zulfon ka) were performed.
 
 A chorus show marked the end of an eventful evening where a medley of the actress’s songs like ‘Gore rang pe na itna guman na kar’, ‘Chhup gaye saare nazare’ and ‘Jai jai Shiv Shankar’ were performed.
 
 The musical setup lent its splendid support to the skilled singers. Vedansh Jadhav, a Std IX student, played the keyboard while a graduation second year student, Aniket Barapatre handled the octopod and drums with the grace of a seasoned performer. The event was conceptualized by Bharti Parsatwar and compèred by Shweta Shelgaonkar, who gave the audience an insight into the superstars’ life.
 
 Quotes
 
 I enjoyed a lot. The song selection was top notch. I liked how such young artists played the instruments
 
 Motilal Gurnani | Businessman
 
 I liked the concept. These songs we usually don’t get to listen in other events. The singers were remarkable 
 
 Makarand Dande | Businessman
 
 It was a well-organized musical show. I liked how the anchor told the life story of Mumtaz in between songs
 
 Vaibhav Daroadkar | Govt employee
 
 (Reporting by Bhagyashree Kashyap)
 
 
