PATNA: After disruption in flight operations for the last two days due to dense fog and chaotic scenes at   at Patna, Patna district magistrate   on Sunday instructed the airport authorities to provide basic facilities to the flyers waiting there for no fault of theirs.

 Holding a meeting of police, airport officials and local meteorological office at the airport, the DM asked the Patna meteorological centre officials to provide weather updates to airport for at least next two days so that the officials could manage the flight schedules accordingly. 
 
 Agarwal instructed the airport authorities to set up a temporary canopy in the parking area and arrange 400 comfortable chairs for the passengers. “On the basis of weather forecast, please inform the passengers in advance about either cancellation or rescheduling of flights due to bad weather conditions,” he told the Met officials.
 
 The district administration has also decided to arrange water,   and   on the airport premises. “There should be enough stock of food to feed the waiting passengers. In case of flight cancellation, the airport authorities should provide the flyers lunch, dinner and snacks and warm water and also chocolates and wafers to the kids. Transportation service will also be provided to the flyers to drop them at their homes during evening and night hours due to cancellation of or delay in flights. Security will be tightened around the airport at night and police patrolling inside and outside the airport premises will also be increased,” Agarwal said.
 
 It was also decided at the meeting to open a ‘May I Help You’ counter along with a display board at the airport main entrance for the announcement of flights delay and cancellation. The DM asked the airport authorities to make available mobile phone charging points and television for news and entertainment for passengers. He instructed the airlines representatives to address the grievances and give accurate information to passengers about the flights and facilities they are being providing.
 
 The DM also asked the civil surgeon to depute a team of doctors for the medical care of passengers and ambulance at the airport in case of any emergency. “The communication gap between the airport authorities and passengers is creating havoc at the airport. We need to help the passengers, instead of multiplying their miseries. There should be proper coordination between airport authorities and meteorological department,” said Agarwal.
 
 The DM also talked to a few passengers and took their feedback on facilities and problems at the airport.
 
 
