HYDERABAD: Fresh after rubbing shoulders with leaders of major political parties inimical to   in Bengaluru on Wednesday, Telugu   (TDP) supremo and AP chief minister N Chandrababu Naidu said on Thursday the TDP would play a key role at the Centre after 2019 elections. Ruling himself out as a contender for the post of prime minister, Naidu told partymen at the Telangana Mahanadu here that TDP played a key role in the formation of the   and   governments at the Centre. 

 
 He said while the late NTR played crucial role in the formation of the National Front government, he was instrumental in the formation of United Front government. In 2019 too, TDP will play kingmaker and predicted that regional parties would be the key to government formation next year, he said. "I was responsible for making H D Deva Gowda prime minister in 1996. I am not aspiring to become PM now. I got an offer to become PM twice 20 years ago, but turned it down and decided to serve then united Andhra Pradesh. Now too, I want to serve Telugus," the TDP chief said.
 
 Naidu also made it clear he attended the swearing-in ceremony of HD Kumaraswamy despite him heading a coalition government that includes   after receiving an invite from then CM-designate. "In Bengaluru, I held discussions with leaders of various parties. After 1996, when regional parties came together to form a government, no such experiment was done till Wednesday. We will meet again and prepare an action plan," he said.
 
 Launching a scathing attack on BJP, the TDP president said the saffron party cheated both the AP and Telangana governments. "I visited Delhi 29 times and waited for four budgets and finally realised the   had no intention of granting special category status to AP or allocating funds for Amaravati. Even promises made to both the Telugu states as per the AP Reorganization Act were not kept. In Telangana, the tribal university and Bayyaram steel plant promised in the Act are yet to materialise," the AP chief minister said.
 
 He said the NDA government allocated 3,000 crore for installation of a Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel statue and a big amount for a Shivaji statue. It is also spending lakhs of crores for bullet trains and other purposes aimed at developing Delhi and Mumbai. But the Centre has no funds to give for the construction of Amaravati or for two Telugu states, he said. 
 
 The TDP chief also alleged the NDA government was misusing the Governor's system in Tamil Nadu and tried the same trick in Karnataka. "In the Karantaka elections, BJP took the help of mining baron Gali Janardhan Reddy, who is facing corruption charges and is taking the help of YSRCP in AP," he said.
 
