CHENNAI: Fair price shops could soon demand thumb impression of beneficiaries to generate an automated bill and certify supply of provisions as part of the government plan to curb pilferage and prevent bogus entries.

 
 The system has been put on trial in fair price shops across Tamil Nadu. Sources in the civil supplies department said the government considered implementing an OTP (one-time password) system initially but poor feedback meant that automation based on thumb impression came to be preferred eventually.
 
 An announcement in this regard is likely to be made by minister for food and civil supplies R Kamaraj, when the state assembly convenes in June or July.
 
 “Smart cards have been issued to beneficiaries after linking Aadhaar. The bio-metric details of   in our database will be used to make the system functional. Either the family card holder or an adult member in his/her family can get the provisions and obtain a bill by providing their thumb impression,” said a senior official with the civil supplies department.
 
 Implementing the OTP model would have been cumbersome, the official added. “We found our servers were slow to respond and generate the OTP. Only 10-20 bills would be generated in a day at our server's pace. It would cause issues for our employees at the shops,” the official added.
 
 The move is an attempt to curb pilferage of provisions and bogus entries at fair supply shops. “If it means pilferage can be reduced, then this move should be welcomed,” said   of KK Nagar . “But instead of adults only, the system's scope should be expanded to allow children above five years of age to also record their thumb impression and generate bills,” he added.
 
 This is because, according to consumer activist  , at least 60% of the card holders in Chennai rely on a third person, like a house maid, to obtain provisions from fair price shops. “Senior citizens visit fair price shops more. The change in system shouldn’t become a hassle. If the government wants the family card holders to visit the shops, then they should take steps to ensure that all provisions are always adequately stocked and available throughout the working hours,”   said.
 
 The new system could still be manipulated by fair price shop workers, said T Nagar resident  . “After I produced my smart card, the workers ask what all provisions do I need. If I say no to palm oil, then the attender asks if he could still list the product as availed by me,”   said.
 
 Sadagopan added that the government must start awareness drives among public before effecting the change in system.
 
 
