MANGALURU: Shankar Kotian may be earning only 25% of what he used to a few years ago but the 43-year-old techie-turned-farmer says the world for him is a much better place now. It took Kotian 16 years at Infosys and work experience in multiple countries to realise his heart was where his home was.

 In 2011, Kotian, who belongs to Moodbidri, decided to resign from his cushy job and venture into dairy farming. Drawing inspiration from the works of Masanobu Fukuoka, the Japanese farmer and philosopher,  , one of Karnataka’s most progressive farmers, and Subhash Panekar of Maharashtra, Kotian toured several farms for months together and threw his hat into the ring in 2013-14.
  
  
 He bought eight acres at Moodu Konaje and started small with five cows. “Visiting farms is the best way to learn. When I was working overseas, I used to visit farms during long weekends. These trips gave me an idea on various farming techniques and use of machines. I also visited several farms in Bengaluru, Mysuru and South Canara. Reading, too, helped me,” says Kotian.
 
 Four years down the line, Kotian owns 40 cattle, including calves. While three of these are desi, the rest are crossbred. “I want to increase the number of desi cows to at least 10,” he says. Most of the cows he owns now were all born in his cow shed.
 
 He currently milks around 20 cows. “I may take another year to reach the peak where I may be milking 27-30 cows. I have been growing my herd organically. I am satisfied with the way things are shaping up.”
 
 Kotian also cultivates paddy, rubber and areca. A part of his farm is under natural farming. As opposed to organic farming, natural farming is known as the ‘do nothing’ approach, allowing nature to do its work. “Natural farming will take some time. As I am looking at longterm prospects, I see great benefits in it,” he says.
 
 Over these four years, Kotian has built a house in the farm, allowing him to be one with the ecosystem he cherishes.
 
 Taking in the calm, Kotian cautions that it has not all been smooth. Those looking to take the plunge into agriculture, he says, must have a reserve that will last them 3-5 years. “It takes three to five years to start reaping profits in agriculture just like most other businesses. Start small, invest less. Since it is a new field, one is likely to make a lot of mistakes. It is great if those mistakes come cheap. Also, though farming is a lifestyle, one should ensure it is market driven so that you make a living out of it,” he says.
 
 
