Vadodara: Notorious gangster   was allegedly shot at near Madar Market in   area on Saturday. 

 
 The firing is suspected to the fall-out of the extortion racket being run by   in the area.
 
 Three persons – Uvesh alias Mulla Memon, Zuber Memon and Sheikhali   – allegedly took on Ajju and his associates, including his family members, near Madar Market when they came to attack Uvesh. The reason for the attack, according to the offence registered by Uvesh, was that Ajju’s aide Khalid Mansuri had sought Rs 2,000 from him but he gave only Rs 500.
 
 Uvesh, who has a hosiery shop in Mangal Bazaar, has claimed that he was threatened by Mansuri. Later, Ajju’sbrother Iqbal too threatened Uvesh who agreed to give the remaining Rs 1,500. But late in the night Ajju himself threatened Uvesh over phone.
 
 Uvesh claimed that fearing for his safety, he had kept a country-made pistol brought from his home. Ajju and his aides allegedly came to Madar Market where Uvesh was sitting with Zuber and Surti. They attacked Uvesh who pulled out the gun and fired a shot from it. A bullet reportedly hit Ajju in his back. However, Ajju escaped from the spot while Uvesh, Zuber and Surti went to the City police station located just a few paces away and surrendered. They were put under arrest later.
 
 Mansuri’s mother Raziyabano has filed a cross-complaint alleging that he had gone to Uvesh’s shop to seek payment for the material supplied to him by her son’s employer. Uvesh allegedly did not give the money and instead thrashed Mansuri. When she and Mansuri went to the market to meet Mansuri’s employer, Uvesh, Zuber and Surti started beating Mansuri again.
 
 Raziyabano told police that Ajju and Iqbal came to her house on learning about the incident as they were neighbours. She has claimed that the duo took Mansuri to Uvesh and others to settle the matter. But after sometime, she suddenly heard a lot of commotion and it transpired that Ajju and Iqbal were being beaten up. She alleged that Uvesh pulled out a gun and shot at Ajju.
 
 
