NEW DELHI: AAP seems to be all geared up for the 2019  . On Saturday, its national convener,  , held a 11-hour roadshow covering Bahadurgarh, Rohtak,  , his ancestral village   and several other small towns while addressing people at multiple places. He also visited two temples, one in his ancestral village. 

 On last Sunday, Kejriwal was in Hisar to address a rally where he announced that AAP would contest all 90 seats in the 2019 polls. 
 
 On Saturday, too, his speeches appeared to be blowing the election bugle in Haryana. Targeting BJP, Congress and Indian National Lok Dal — the three key political parties in the state — the Delhi chief minister said, “The old parties cannot make a new Haryana since they have tried to do to it and failed. Along with 2.5 crore people, we can make a new Haryana. We want to change the system and eradicate corruption.” 
 
 Thanking people for the “successful” Hisar rally, Kejriwal claimed that Haryana CM Manohar Lal Khattar and former CM Bhupinder Singh Hooda had lost sleep since then. While Khattar belongs to BJP, Hooda is from Congress. 
 
 Since the disappointment in the Punjab elections — though AAP had emerged as the main opposition party, it had failed to score big — the party had been lying low outside Delhi. 
 
 In an appeal to the voters, the Delhi CM said, “Kejriwal alone can’t do it, I am a small man. But we can kick them out if 2.5 crore people join hands.”
 
 Claiming that the people of Delhi, who gave an unprecedented number of seats to AAP in 2015, are satisfied with his government, Kejriwal appealed for a repeat in Haryana 2019. “BJP and Congress incite riots and pit one against the other. We can give you peace, security, hospitals, schools. It is not a tall claim, we have done it in Delhi.” 
 
 The roadshow began from Bahadurgarh at 11am where he arrived to the tune of drums arranged by party volunteers. While some were amazed by over 100 SUVs in the roadshow, AAP sources said it was common for people in Haryana to own big vehicles.
 
 With Delhi itself being bordered from three sides by Haryana, a large number of people from both rural and urban parts of the state travel to the capital for work every day, giving them a chance to experience the AAP government’s functioning. Kejriwal will be assisted by the Delhi party MLAs belonging to the constituencies sharing the Haryana border.
 
 AAP did not contest the 2014 assembly polls but in the last Lok Sabha polls, its candidates had performed far below expectations in Haryana. 
 
 
 
