CHENNAI: Claiming that the advocate general flouted the assurance given to the court by allowing the government to pass order appointing K Srinivasan as secretary to the   legislative assembly, two senior officials of the assembly have moved the Madras high court seeking to quash the appointment.
 
 Earlier, L S Vasanthimalar, additional secretary and  , joint secretary of the assembly, approached the high court, accusing speaker P Dhanapal of attempting to get his special private secretary Srinivasan appointed as the special assembly secretary.
 
 On February 2, representing the petitioners’ senior counsel P Wilson sought the court to order status quo till the petition is decided.
 
 Opposing the contentions, advocate general   said that till date appointment order has not been issued and even if appointment is made in the coming days, the court can still pass any order exercising powers under Article 226.
 
 Subsequently, on March 03, the government passed an order appointing Srinivasan as secretary to the legislative assembly. Assailing the order, the petitioners has now approached the court once against through a separate plea.
 
 When the present petition came up for hearing, Wilson said, “The advocate general has flouted the undertaking given by him. On March 2, he argued the matter and it was posted to today. When I insisted on ordering maintenance of status quo, advocate general said nothing will happen. But to nullify his arguments, on the same day, they amended the Rules giving retrospective effect and on March 3, Srinivasan was appointed as secretary. This has court never experienced such breach of undertaking by the highest law officer of the state.”
 
 Denying the allegation, advocate general Vijay Narayan said, “I never gave any undertaking in this matter. Now they have challenged the appointment of Srinivasan and the rules. Therefore, a counter affidavit has to be filed.”
 
 Recording the submission,   adjourned the plea to March 07 for further hearing.
 
 The petitioners wanted the court to direct the authorities to appoint only persons holding the post of additional secretary or joint secretary in the general administrative wing of the   secretariat to the post of secretary in the TN assembly.
 
