Rana   was pursuing his Class XII in Tripura when he became worried about job prospects. He got to know about a course in home healthcare from Apollo Medskills, post which he landed himself a job in Nightingale Home Health Services as a bedside caregiver. “After two years, I wanted to transition into a different role. Now, I am in the HR department, undergoing training to deal with recruitment of bedside caregivers,” he added.

 Paul has just begun climbing up the ladder in the home healthcare industry. The segment, originally restricted to bedside geriatric assistance rendered by unorganised players, has seen participation from organised players such as Apollo, Medwell and Portea and newer entrants in the market like   and Zoctr.
 
 Services are also moving out from general geriatric care to specialised, clinical neonatal care and post-operative assistance for chronic illnesses in areas including dentistry, treatment of stroke etc.
 
 “The industry is now growing from $2.5 billion to $6 billion, with the opening of newer avenues and the growth of the industry with the miniaturisation of medical devices that has helped replicate hospital care at home. Also, it is no longer restricted to bedside nursing of elders, we also have 30-year-old patients being treated at home for muscular and skeletal problems etc,” said Vishal Bali, co-founder and chairman, Medwell Ventures. 
 
 While bedside care of the ailing can be taken care of by anyone who has finished Class X specialised care for new mothers or those recuperating from chronic illnesses need expertise, HR players say. “One is complementing hospital care at home and with the devices finding their place (at homes), the quality of care must go up as well, “said Kumar Krishnaswamy, head, human resources, Nightingales Home Health Services. He said with the increase in quality, the compensation also goes up by 25% compared to what a hospital atmosphere provides. Initially, one can expect a pay of Rs 20,000 to Rs 22,000, recruiters say.
 
 Another advantage the homecare industry offers is lack of burnout, nurses and physiotherapists add. While nurses join the profession with an intention to care, hospitals make it mechanical and the load can be too much to take. “While some companies take freshers, a couple of years in a hospital can offer a smooth transition to home healthcare, providing a better job satisfaction,” said Naveen Kumar, clinical director,  .
 
 The industry branching out from bedside care to chronic care has also lent itself to various career opportunities. Besides nursing, one can foray into the management to deal with multiple clients and coordination of employees. One can also get into lead generation for the home healthcare companies and foray into business development, HR players add. 
 
 However, the industry is not regulated and insurance players have not actively considered the space, which makes private pay contribute to the growth. “This paves way for further growth in the post-operative clinical assistance as paying up for geriatric care can be afforded by the affluent only,” said Thiyagarajan V, founder, India Home Healthcare.
 
 
