  : A couple of days after the suicide by a 19-year-old girl in   area, situation turned tense outside the in the state capital on Tuesday evening after rumours spread that stones were pelted on protesting residents. Locals had assembled at the police station demanding action against the SHO and death penalty for the accused. The girl had hanged herself to death after allegedly being stalked by a youth. 

 Hundreds of angry locals turned outside the police station for a candle march which started from the house of deceased in JP Nagar. The angry protestors were demanding death penalty for the accused youth. Police had to use mild force to disperse the crowd.
 
 The locals stopped buses and tried to overturn an auto-rickshaw. Shops were closed but soon the police controlled the situation.
 
 Arti Roy, 19, a resident of JP Nagar, was a student of B Com second year at   college. Her father is an auto-rickshaw driver while mother   works as a domestic help. Her younger brother is a student of class 9.
 
 Accused Danish Ali, who resides near her house, is an auto-rickshaw driver. He allegedly used to harass the deceased regularly while she ventured out of home to go college since last one month. He used to force her to sit in his auto-rickshaw and go for a long ride. She used to remain depressed over this and had told her mother about this. But they did not had courage to stand against the you. The girl committed suicide on Saturday night.
 
 The accused had waylaid her and assaulted her a day before the incident. Gautam Nagar police on Sunday arrested accused Danish and registered a case on charges of abatement to suicide against him. He was sent to jail.
 
 Her mother told police that she never approached police as she was frightened that accused may harm her ten-year-old son. The locals started reaching JP Nagar since evening. At the house of deceased they organized a candle march and moved towards reached Gautam Nagar police station at around 7.20 pm. They started raising slogans and entered the police station.
 
 While the protest was on, someone spread the rumour that stones were pelted on the protestors. Police tried to pacify the situation, but the protestors leaving women in police station went out. They started raising slogans and vandalising the kiosks near the spot. They also stopped buses after which police used light force and dispersed the crowd. Police requested the shopkeepers in area to close their shops.
 
 Earlier, in the morning members of   led a protest outside police station and demanded removal of SHO Gautam Nagar Mukhtar Qureshi.
 
 ASP Rajesh Singh Bhadoria said situation is under control. Some unidentified men tried to create disturbance by spreading rumours, but it has been effectively tackled.
 
 
