GURUGRAM: The Gurugram Registrar of Societies (RoS) has ordered handing over of the management of   to a new administrator for an interim period of three months, before a new governing body can be elected. 

 The development marks the fruition of the effort of a group of residents, who had repeatedly filed complaints to the RoS, expressing anguish over preferential treatment by   1 RWA, while selecting members to its executive body, and lack of maintenance of the area.
 
 “We filed our first complaint last year,” said  , one of residents spearheading the effort. “As a resident, I’m eligible for RWA membership. Yet, I was refused. They also have an executive body filled members who toe the line. Somehow, ‘outsiders’ have become persona non grata.” The complainants also said accounts of the current RWA were opaque on expenditure.
 
 Acting on the complaints from the protesting residents, the Gurugram RoS appointed an administrator last week to look after the management of Sushant Lok 1 for three months, till a new governing body could be elected. The letter states that both complainants and RWA members were called for meetings twice, first on January 18 and again on January 29. 
 
 “During the January 18 hearing, 16 out of 29 collegium members pledged in writing to appoint a new administrator to manage the society’s affairs and to conduct an election for a new governing body, as the present one was working against by-laws of the   and Regulation of Societies (HRRS) Act, 2012. Moreover, the present governing body’s term had ended on December 20, 2017,” the order copy reads.
 
 The reports also mentions that a large number of residents were dissatisfied with the functioning of the present governing body, and felt it was not acting as per norms set by the society in its constitution. 
 
 “I hereby appoint Sh  , assistant registrar (retired) of cooperative societies as an administrator, to manage the affairs for an interim period, as also for conducting elections of collegium ward representatives, and a new governing body,” the letter reads.
 
 “The administrator is supposed to complete all this as per provisions of HRRS 2012 rules, within three months, and then send his report to the office,” a Gurugram RoS official told TOI. 
 
 “The entire election process has to be videographed,” he added. 
 
 A member of the executive council of Sushant Lok 1 RWA said the residents’ demand was valid. “The requests of residents who have filed for membership before January 15 are valid, before new elections could be held,” he said.
 
 
 
