GHAZIABAD: The   has ordered an investigation into an allegation that a Delhi-based woman   was allegedly   inside Sihani Gate police station for more than four hours on the night of May 17. Her collegaue in a legal firm, representing a client along with her, was allegedly roughed up by cops. 

 
 A complaint had been lodged in Sihani Gate police station on May 18. The inquiry was ordered after scores of lawyers met Ghaziabad SSP Vaibhav Krishna on Saturday, alleging no case had been registered despite the complaint being filed. 
 
 The lawyer,  , and her colleague, Vinod Tyagi, an advocate in the district court, were reportedly let off from the police station after 10.30 pm. The duo had reached Sihani Gate police station from the Nandgram outpost around 6 pm.
 
 “Sangeeta Sharma is representing a client in a case in Ghaziabad along with Vinod Tyagi. The accused in the case, which pertains to financing of vehicles, is a resident of the Sihani Gate police station area. Despite several reminders, cops from the police station have not submitted a wanted report of the accused in court,”   secretary Vishwas Tyagi told TOI.
 
 Tyagi said the two lawyers had reached Nandgram police outpost on May 17 to enquire as to why the wanted report is not being filed. “They were called to Sihani Gate police station by its SHO Vinod Pandey while they were at the Nandgram outpost. They reached the police station around 6pm. An argument ensued when the lawyers demanded to know why the report was not being submitted. The SHO, along with five other cops, thrashed Tyagi. They snatched the mobile phone from Sangeeta and threatened her using abusive language,” said Vishwas Tyagi.
 
 The complainants have alleged that cops at the police station also threatened them with dire consequences before letting them go.
 
 “The inquiry will be conducted by circle officer of Sihani Gate police station Atish Singh. He has been asked to complete the inquiry in two days and furnish a report ascertaining the veracity of allegations levelled on police. An action in the matter will be taken on the basis of the findings of the inquiry,” SSP Krishna told TOI.
 
