NEW DELHI: Eighteen months after Najeeb Ahmed disappeared under mysterious circumstances, another student has gone   from   campus.  , an Ignou student being co-guided by a JNU professor, has been missing for the past two days.

 Jain was last seen on a CCTV camera near the east gate of the varsity at 12.30pm on Monday. His phone and other belongings were found in the laboratory where he used to work.
 
 Family members approached the police on Monday evening after Jain could not be traced. “He had left home saying he would visit JNU’s School of Life Sciences to collect some study material and use the lab for   work,” a family member told cops.
 
 His friends told TOI that Jain was working in lab number 408 when he received a call from an unknown number and left in a hurry. “He even left his laptop and phone on the desk,” said a friend of Jain. In the meantime, Jain’s brother tried calling him, but his phone went unanswered. His friends finally received the call and informed his family that Jain was untraceable.
 
 As cops scanned the CCTV footage, they found that Jain had walked out of the east gate and boarded a vehicle. “We have registered a missing complaint and have initiated a probe. His family members have not requested for an FIR but we have some clues, which we are analysing,” said DCP (southwest) Milind Dumbere.
 
 Jain was not a regular student of JNU and it is unlikely that he had a problem with someone, said a senior police officer. “Jain stayed in   and commuted to JNU on a daily basis for lab work and classes. He used to return home by 9pm daily. He did not show any sign of trouble or anxiety when he left home on Monday. Students at JNU refused to talk to us citing some protocol when we asked them about his whereabouts,” his brother-in-law Ankush Jain told TOI.
 
 University sources say that Jain worked under professor   to complete his PhD, which he has been pursuing since 2012.
 
 “Jain was focused on his research work. He is roughly my age and is quite frank. We do not know if he was in a relationship with any woman, as alleged. Our anxiety has grown because concocted stories about him are being spread ever since he went missing. We have been in touch with police since Monday night,” said Jain’s elder sister Shilpi.
 
 JNU administration said that Jain was not a registered student of the varsity. “He is not a registered student with JNU. We have nothing to do with it,” said JNU spokesperson Poonam Srivastava.
 
 
