HYDERABAD : The TRS government’s ambitious plan to construct a new secretariat complex at   in Secunderabad was dealt a body blow after talks failed with the ministry of defence (MoD).

 Sources said the TRS government could not agree to the Centre’s request for a recurring annual compensation for handing over the ground.
 
 The state government had sought Bison Polo Ground and parts of Gymkhana comprising 60 acre for the new secretariat and Assembly complex. Besides, it also wanted land for widening the road from Paradise to   linking Rajiv Rahadari and also 60 acres of defence land from Paradise to Secunderabad Club. According to sources, the Centre agreed to hand over all this but in return, wanted 500 acres in lieu of Bison Polo Ground and Rs 92 crore as one-time compensation.
 
 “The   government was agreeable to these two requests, but the Centre also wanted an annual compensation of Rs 60 crore as the defence ministry will lose annual revenue from leasing various function halls and commercial complexes in the vicinity of Bison Polo, which will be taken over by the state. We could not agree to the annual compensation,” sources told TOI.
 
  
 
 
 
 “Revenue officials had zeroed in on five government-owned land parcels to offer the Army in lieu of the nearly 60-acre Bison Polo Ground and parts of Gymkhana and 100 acres for expressways under Strategic Road Development Plan (SRDP). Jawaharnagar, Vikarabad, Mahbubnagar, Wanaparthy, Nizamabad and   are some of the districts where alternative lands were shown to defence officials,” said a senior government official.
 
 When Arun Jaitley was defence minister, he cleared two proposals — new Secretariat and also expansion of Rajiv Rahadari under Strategic Road Development Plan. After giving in-principle approval, Arun Jaitley directed Local Military Authority (LMA) to hold talks with the state government to find a suitable land parcel in lieu of land that will be given to Telangana. “We told them that barring the annual compensation, the other conditions were okay. But they said they will not review the decision. So, we decided to call off the talks,” said top sources in the government.
 
 Though some   MPs tried to reach Union defence minister Nirmala Sitharaman, however according to sources, Sitharaman refused to intervene in the matter of annual compensation.
 
 
