BENGALURU:   is reported to have filed a counterclaim of over Rs 100 crore against former CFO   for alleged breach of confidentiality agreements.

 The news was reported by CNBC on Thursday. A text message to   asking about the counterclaim did not elicit a response; Infosys said it has no comments to offer on the matter.
 
  
 Shriram Subramanian, founder of corporate governance advisory firm InGovern Research Services, said there could be claims and counterclaims in the arbitration hearing and one cannot respond to hearsay unless the outcome of the arbitration proceedings is known.
 
 The counterclaim comes close on the heels of the second hearing in the arbitration proceedings between the two parties in January in Bengaluru. The first was held in December.
 
 Bansal had contested Infosys’s decision to suspend the payment of about Rs 12 crore of the severance pay that was promised to him at the time of his leaving in 2015. Infosys had agreed to pay him Rs 17.38 crore as severance, the equivalent of 24 months’ pay.
 
 
 
 
 But it disbursed only Rs 5 crore, and halted the remaining payment on the grounds that Bansal had not met some of his obligations. Early in 2017, Bansal invoked his rights to an arbitral tribunal.   ex-judge RV Raveendran was appointed as sole arbitrator in April.
 
 Over the past several months, various submissions — verbal and documentary — have been made to the tribunal by both parties. Law firm   is representing Bansal, and   is Infosys’s counsel. The Arbitration Act mandates that a decision must be made within one year from the date of constitution of the arbitral tribunal.
 
 Many believe the payment was suspended following objections, especially from some of Infosys’s founders, that the amount was excessive. Cofounder NR Narayana Murthy said such payments may be viewed by some as “hush money” and castigated the board for not having made all disclosures with respect to it.
 
 In December, Infosys filed a settlement application (read: pay a fine) with Sebi to resolve the allegations about not seeking prior approval of its nominations and remunerations committee and the audit committee in relation to the severance agreement and initiation of arbitration under the severance agreement.
 
 
