From being crowned as Maharashtra’s Most Desirable Man to doing a lot of major projects, including Prakash Kunte’s latest film, actor   has been on a roll. We caught up with the actor and spoke to him about his journey, Kangana Ranaut and of course, rumours about him and   being a pair. Excerpts:
 
  
 
 
 
  It has been a fruitful journey. There was a time when I was ridiculed in Pune during my engineering days for the way I used to dress up and carry myself. Today, I thank all those people who had criticised me and also my friends and family who stood by me through thick and thin.
 
  
 
 
  Almost 90 per cent shoot of Manikarnika is over. I don’t know what people have to say about her, but honestly, I found Kangana to be a very cooperative and professional actor.
 
  
  
  
 
 
  It is about the journey and growth of a man, who is an architect, and who travels to various places in Maharashtra and Dubai as circumstances change in his life. In the last few years, most of my films have been love stories, so I’m really excited about playing a serious role in this film.
  
  
 
 
  In my early days, I was a bit low on confidence, so when I get all this attention, I feel humbled. I thank God that I’m in the right place to get so much of love and affection.
 
  
 
 
  I belong to theatre! My love for it is beyond words, but the problem is that I’m nota multi-tasker. I have been offered some interesting plays, but due to my busy schedule right now, it's not possible for me to take up a play. However, I will surely make time for it soon.
 
  
 
 
  I’m in talks with two production houses, but I can’t speak about it till the time it is finalised. One thing is for sure though; I won't be playing character roles any more.
 
  
 
 
  At one times, there were rumours about me and   getting married too. I’m a straightforward guy and if there was something special between me and Pooja, I would shout from the rooftop and tell the whole world. Pooja and I are just good friends.
 
  
 
 
