DEHRADUN: With an overwhelming majority of 57 lawmakers in the 70-member Uttarakhand assembly, the sailing was expected to be a smooth one for chief minister   in 2017. However, things did not go as expected as the state government was seen on the backfoot on several issues previous year. 

  The situation is likely to get more complicated in 2018 as Rawat faces his first major test after the assembly elections in the form of urban bodies elections. To make things more difficult, some pending issues such as Lokayukta Act, decision on Gairsain, tussle among seniors over two vacant cabinet berth, the Central Board of Direct Taxes (CBDT) probe into his immovable assets will also take the centre stage. 
 
  The   probe recommendation in the alleged irregularities in land acquisition for widening of NH-74 in Udham Singh Nagar left the   leaders in an awkward situation. The decision to hold a week-long session at Gairsain also came under attack as the winter session was reduced to just two-day in December. 
 
  Political analyst   said, "In Uttarakhand it has been a trend that the voting in Lok Sabha elections has been against the ruling party in the state. In 2009, when BJP was in power in Uttarakhand, it lost all five Lok Sabha seats to Congress. Similarly, in 2014, when   was the ruling party, it was defeated on all five Lok Sabha seats by BJP. Under such scenario, the urban bodies election will play a crucial role and perhaps a semi-final to Lok Sabha polls." 
 
  Jay added that a number of decisions backfired on the BJP government. "Lokayukta, winter session at Gairsain and CBI recommendation in NH-74 are glaring examples of BJP taken a decision in a haste," he said, adding, "Now the BJP needs to put its act together or the urban bodies polls may leave them embarrassed." On the two vacant cabinet berths, he added that the delay was "beyond anybody's imagination." He said, "Despite having 57 MLAs, the BJP is unable to shortlist two of them for the post, which is very shocking and is not sending out a good message. The new year will one for the CM and his political skills will pass through a litmus test." 
 
 
