GURUGRAM: Late on Sunday night,   in Gurgaon dragged a 22-year-old woman out of a car and raped her on the roadside in Sector 57, while his three accomplices, also drunk, thrashed   relatives.

 On Monday, police arrested the rapist and his three accomplices, and recovered a car from their possession. Police are now questioning the accused, who will be produced before a city court on Tuesday.
 
 This is the 10th case of rape reported in Haryana in 10 days, and the fourth case in Gurgaon in the same period.
 
 According to police, the incident happened around midnight on Sunday, on the 200ft road behind   in Sector 57.
 
 The survivor lives with her husband in a rented accommodation in   1.
 
 
 
 The survivor told police that her husband and she had gone for dinner in Tighra village to the home of her husband’s elder brother, reaching there at 7pm. After dinner, since it was late, the hosts offered to drop them back home in their car. There were six people in the car, including the brother in-law’s son, who was at the wheel.
 
 “Around 15 minutes after we had left my brother in-law’s home, while we were crossing the 200ft road behind Business Park Tower, my husband asked his nephew who was driving to stop to relieve himself. As my husband left, his nephew also stepped out to drink water. In the meantime, two cars arrived and stopped near our car. There were two men in each car. They appeared to be drunk, and started asking the nephew why we had stopped there. By then, my husband had returned, and joined the discussion,” the survivor said.
 
 “Within minutes, it turned into a free-for-all, as the men began thrashing my husband and his nephew. I sat numb on my seat, when one of them spotted me and dragged me out. One of his friends asked him to leave me, but he paid no heed and dragged me to the nearby bushes, where he thrashed and raped me,” the survivor added.
 
 Meanwhile, his three accomplices fled in their cars, leaving behind the rapist, who ran away and hid behind the bushes. “Later, my husband, who had noted down the car numbers, called police,” said the survivor in her complaint.
 
 Based on the complaint, an FIR was registered against unidentified accused, under sections 323 (causing hurt), 376 (rape), 506 (criminal intimidation), 34 (common intention) of IPC at Sector 56 police station in the night itself. “As soon as we’d received the information, we sent out teams on the search,” said Inderjeet Singh, ACP (Sadar). By Monday, police had tracked down all four accused through the registration number of the cars, and nabbed them from the outskirts of their village. They also recovered an Alto car. “The other car they had used is reportedly a Toyota Etios, but we can’t confirm it yet,” added ACP Singh.
 
 The accused have been identified as Sanjeet (22), Dharmender (25), Deshbeer (23) and Pawan (26), residents of Johlaka village near Sohna. “The main accused is Sanjeet, who confessed to having raped the complainant. He is a water tanker supplier, while Dharmender is a salesman at a liquor vend. Deshbeer is a farmer and Pawan works with a Delhi-based private company. The accused were heavily drunk at the time they committed the crime. We’re questioning them,” said inspector Arvind Kumar, SHO, Sector 56 police station.
 
 
 
