PANAJI: The special investigation team (SIT) of crime branch has decided to file a chargesheet in the Rs 35,000-crore alleged illegal   case in which politicians, bureaucrats and mining traders are accused. Former   chief minister and Margao MLA Digambar Kamat is also an accused in the case.

 The Shah Commission, probing the scam, had estimated losses to the exchequer arising from   mining to the tune of around Rs 35,000 crore.
 
 Crime branch SP Karthik Kashyap told TOI investigation is almost complete.
 
  “We will file the chargesheet against a within fortnight,” he said, adding that it would be followed by a supplementary chargesheet. 
 
 Kashyap said the crime branch has asked the mines department to conduct a survey of the three mining plots to identify the exact loss to the exchequer due to illegal mining. Kashyap said the figures would be compared with the export figure complied by the Indian Bureau of Mines ( ), directorate of mines and geology and customs.
 
 During the course of investigation, the SIT had arrested bureaucrats and   traders, who were later released on the bail. In July 26, 2013, the department had filed a criminal complaint in the case with the crime branch seeking that it fix criminal liability against those involved in it. The department had also requested police to file an FIR against persons identified in the reports of the Supreme Court-appointed Central Empowered Committee, the Shah Commission and the Public Accounts Committee.
 
 On August 19, 2013, the crime branch registered an FIR against politicians, bureaucrats, mine owners, officials of the mines department and others identified in the three reports. The one-member SIT is looking to expedite the investigation in the matter.
 
 The crime branch had named former mines director and mines department officials in the FIR.
 
 The FIR was registered under IPC sections 120(b) (conspiracy) and 166 (public servant disobeying law), sections 13(1) (d), 13(2) of the Prevention of Corruption Act and sections of the Mines and Mineral Development Act, Mineral Concession Rules, Mineral Conservation and Development Rules and Goa Prevention of Illegal Mining, Transportation, Storage of Minerals Rules 2004.
 
 
