GURUGRAM: Residents of DLF areas,   and   have again raised concerns over the setting up of a waste collection and transfer centre nearby, in a meeting with officials from   and private agency EcoGreen Energy Private Ltd at   on Saturday morning.

 EcoGreen is developing the waste centre as part of an integrated waste management project. The agency is expected to collect waste from door-to-door, segregate it at source and compress it at the centre, before transporting it to the main waste treatment plant at Bandhwari.
 
 Residents alleged the segregation processes “clearly violate the National Green Tribunal (NGT) guidelines and Solid Waste Management (SWM) Rules”. They also claimed that 15 transfer stations to be set up under the plan with each station storing 100 tonnes of waste every day “are bound to emit a strong stench”.
 
 According to them, compacting waste at transfer station after segregation will release 2,000-4,000 litres of dirty water a day, which could contaminate soil and groundwater if discharged into the natural drain. 
 
 EcoGreen will be picking up mixed waste in two bins which will be segregated, processed and disposed going against SWM Rules which makes segregation at source mandatory, said residents. 
 
 “We were shocked to hear EcoGreen CEO assert that SWM Rules prefer waste to energy. This is untrue. Such misinformation is highly irresponsible. I’m disappointed that officials continue to take decisions unilaterally without any dialogue and consultations with citizens,” said Shona Chatterji, Citizens for Clean Air.
 
 Several other points were raised by the residents such as “how does EcoGreen plan to manage leachate arising from tonnes of wet waste” collected at their transfer centres. And the fact that there is no provision for the disposal of hazardous and electronic waste.
 
 “EcoGreen is trying to pull wool over the citizens’ eyes by proposing Utopian ideas like a waste-to-energy plant. There is more than what meets the eye,” said Arun Jain, a resident DLF-1 who attended the meeting.
 
 When contacted, additional municipal commissioner YS Gupta told TOI, “The matter related to the transfer centre is in the NGT. However, residents have to understand that transfer centres have to come up at some place and if everyone questions their placement in the neighbourhood, it will be impossible for us to find a spot for them.”
 
 
