Give us helmets, shield and body armour like the police,” the voice of an emergency management technician shouting into the mobile phone amid the chaos stunned senior officers in the 108 control room. “Some men drove our ambulance away,” shouted another pilot. Within minutes at least three ambulances – including one for the newborns – were damaged leaving at least one paramedic injured.

 The Tamil Nadu Accident and Emergency Initiative ( ) – a cell that was initiated six months ago to bring down morbidity and mortality in trauma cases – put its entire staff on red alert as the condition continued to deteriorate through the day around the riot-ravaged   collectorate. Medical facilities failed to reach affected areas as mobs targeted ambulances. Even the police escorts failed to help ambulances reach the spot.
 
 
 “For the first time we saw how ambulances were no longer considered off-limits for attack. Protesters thought we were ferrying police. It delayed our response time by several hours,” said senior EMRI official.
 
 The situation remained the same for several hours as the entire medical facilities took a hit. The call centre received several calls from inside the collectorate, but ambulances could neither enter nor exit the riot zone, officals said. As the two ambulances that were inside the collectorate could not move out, paramedics loaded injured patients and the dead into police vehicles. Later, some private ambulances were called.
 
 The condition was no different in the Government   and Hospital where the injured were ferried to. By early afternoon, at least 76 people with bleeding injuries were brought to the hospital, where a mob damaged a block donated by Sterlite Copper as part of their CSR activities. The protesters destroyed an ambulance stationed inside the hospital and threw out the medicines that were stored within the ambulance.
 
 “The situation here is very tense. Emotions are running high. We are doing our best to save lives,” said hospital dean Dr M Lalitha. Doctors at the hospital ensured that people with head injuries were sent for CT scan without delay. “At least two theatres were doing back-to-back lifesaving surgeries,” she said later in the evening.
 
 
