PATNA: Altogether 42,772 aspirants appeared in the JEE Mains 2018 in the city. The exam, conducted by the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE), was held across 47 centres here.

 Students gave a mixed response about the level of difficulty of the exam. Most of them said the papers were easy than previous years. Some, however, found the mathematics questions lengthy. The “easy” chemistry paper surprised the aspirants.
 
 JEE Mains is an all-India level engineering entrance exam for admissions in IITs, IIITs, NITs and various other engineering institutes across the country.
 
 Abhinav Sinha, a student of DAV BSEB, said, “Mathematics was the easiest among the three subjects. The questions were mostly calculative. Ten questions were asked from the Class XII syllabus and 20 from the Class XI syllabus. Overall, the paper was not bad. Only the physics portion was a bit difficult and time taking.”
 
 Navya Vajpayee, a student of Notre Dame Academy, said in terms of difficulty level, this year’s paper was easier than previous years. “The chemistry and mathematics parts were moderately easy. The physics part was bit tricky and lengthy. Most of the questions asked in physics were theory-based. All the questions were from the NCERT book,” she said.
 
 Kumar Shivam of St Michael’s School said the paper was easy, but he panicked and couldn’t answer some questions. “I attempted 291 questions,” he said.
 
 Pankaj Suman, who appeared for the JEE Mains for the second time, said, “I qualified the exam last year, but failed to appear in Advanced due to some reasons. I am confident of cracking the test this year.”
 
 Mathematics wizard and Super 30 founder Anand Kumar said the mathematics part was lengthy because of calculations. “Most of the questions in maths were concept-based. However, physics was easy and surprisingly, the chemistry was easier as number of questions were formula-based. Overall, the paper was average,” Kumar said.
 
 CBSE sources said that no untoward incident was reported at any centre. CBSE regional officer (Bihar and Jharkhand) Jagdish Barman personally visited some of the examination centres in the city.
 
 
