In the latest episode of  , Aishwarya is seen fuming as Bhavani and Neelambari try to humiliate her. In the process, the family learns about Aishwarya's pregnancy. Akhilandeswari is over the moon and congratulates the couple, teary-eyed. She thanks Aishwarya for bringing such joy into the family during the testing time. She slaps Neelambari for insulting Aishwarya. Mahindra pretends to be happy while hiding the bitter truth.

  continues to punish   with her silence. Deva's failed attempts to reconcile with her increase the distance between them. She hands him his medicine which he refuses to take. He says that he has no will to get better when she is tormenting herself with unnecessary guilt. Parvathi reminds him that he is obliged to take his medicine, which otherwise would cause much pain to his mother. Having said this, Parvathi walks out of the room.
 
 Parvathi pities herself for not being able to express her love towards Deva. She doesn't consider herself a worthy companion to him. She begs for his apology and cries over her misfortune.
 
 Finding Parvathi sitting in front of Deva's room and crying, Aishwarya inquires into the matter promising to stand by her. Parvathi is touched by her concern and gives away the truth. On hearing it, Aishwarya also sides with Deva and advices her not to guilt trip herself. Aishwarya advises Parvathi to forget whatever happened and keep Akhilandeswari from knowing it.
 
 Bhavani and Neelambari who are desperately waiting for an opportunity to get back at Parvathi overhear her conversation with Aishwarya. They are awaiting the moment to leak it to Akhilandeswari and regain her trust and respect.
 
 In the next scene to follow, Deva sulks about Parvathi’s silence. She initially tries to help Deva dress up but eventually leaves him to help himself.
 
 Mahindra gets milk mixed with black pepper for his pregnant wife Aishwarya. Alerting Mahindra of the adulteration of black pepper in the market, Aishwarya asks for a separate glass of pure milk.
 
 Mahindra shares the adulteration information with Chandramukhi advising her some precautions. Chandramukhi promises him to take good care of herself. Overhearing Mahindra’s conversation, Aishwarya suspects him. Mahindra manages to convince Aishwarya. Mahindra thinks Aishwarya is ignorant that she is taking the anti-periods medicine.
 
 Meanwhile, servant maid Mutyam reports to Akhilandeswari and her husband about the jewel she found in a kitchen utensil. Akhilandeswari finds out that Bhavani and Neelambari are the culprits behind this.
 
 Bhavani and Neelambari coerce Parvathi to reveal the truth behind Deva not regaining his eye-sight. Akhilandeswari intervenes and demands Neelambari and Bhavani to disclose the truth and confess their foul plans. Akhilandeswari summons Mutyam and orders heer to present the jewel she found. Bhavani pleads guilty. Akhilandeswari slaps both Neelambari and Bhavani. The entire family wants the duo to be kicked out of the house.
 
