AHMEDABAD: A 19-page report the state traffic branch ( ) submitted to the home department, suggesting ways to de-congest roads in the four major cities of  , has been critical of the exclusive BRTS lanes in Ahmedabad, Surat and Rajkot.

 The report says where six lanes are available in Ahmedabad, two are reserved for BRT which accounts for just 1% of traffic but takes up 35% of road space.
 
  
 The report proposed that the dedicated BRTS corridor be opened to vehicles of  , AMTS and emergency services, which will “free city roads of traffic jams”.
 
 
 
 
 STB officials said that   (AMC) officials opposed their proposal at a meeting, arguing that GSRTC buses are incompatible with the BRT corridor design.   argued that if a GSRTC bus was allowed to use the lane it will necessitate a complete overhaul of each BRT bus stop, which have been built at the cost of Rs 2 crore each. AMC also cited reasons such as free and haphazard parking, lack of traffic police enforcement on arterial roads as primary reasons for traffic jams.
 
 In 2011, when Ahmedabad’s BRTS network was 42km, its daily average passenger traffic was 1.20 lakh. Today, after the network has doubled to 88 km, the 190-odd BRTS buses in Ahmedabad carry 1.3 to 1.5 lakh passengers a day. According to AMC officials, before BRTS was launched public transport passenger traffic stood at 8 lakh to 8.5 lakh commuters per day. Today, after six years of BRTS operations, combined passenger traffic of BRT and AMTS has dropped to 7.5 lakh passengers per day, defeating the purpose of having the system in place. Nearly 80% of the BRTS fleet, from a total of 223 buses, have been turned air-conditioned, to attract premium commuters. These vehicles guzzle fuel with a mileage of just 1.5km for every litre of diesel.
 
 A senior STB official lamented, “As Ahmedabad, Rajkot and Vadodara, with vehicle populations of 46 lakh, 20 lakh and 19 lakh respectively, are moving towards the point where there will be one vehicle per person, which will worsen the traffic situation.”
 
 
