JAIPUR: The   ( ) has given in-principle approval for funds to cash-strapped   ( ) for acquiring remaining land under 47-km   project. 

 Now, the long-pending land acquisition work to construct clover-leaves and flyovers is expected to begin soon.
 
 An official said, "The JDA will soon initiate the remaining land acquisition process on Agra Road and Tonk Road under Section 44 of JDA Act. Earlier, in January, the civic body has written a letter to NHAI to provide financial assistance. Accepting the request, the NHAI has provided the approval and forwarded the proposal to ministry of road transport and highways. The money would be released soon after the proposal receives a nod." The amount provided by the NHAI will be deducted from Rs 350 crore which is proposed to be given to JDA in 10 years.
 
 According to sources, "At present the financial condition of JDA is critical. As per agreement, NHAI would provide Rs 35 crore to JDA every year. It would also provide 8% interest to the authority. The JDA will receive Rs 515 crore. We will request NHAI to provide the amount in advance so that land acquisition can be done."
 
 Due to financial crisis, the JDA has failed to acquire 26 hectares of land for constructing clover leaves and flyovers. According to sources, the NHAI will spend Rs 238 crore to construct clover-leaves and flyovers. The JDA has proposed an overbridge to cross Tonk Road. Similarly, construction of clover-leaf interchanges was proposed on Agra and Ajmer roads.
 
 A senior JDA official informed TOI that farmers whose land will be acquired to construct clover leaf on Ajmer Road have agreed to surrender their land. These farmers will be provided with developed land in the project as compensation. 
 
 However, the civic body is facing difficulties to acquire 12 hectare land at Agra Road end. "As land of many commercial establishments, including a petrol pump, will be acquired, the farmers are demanding cash compensation. It would be nearly impossible for cash-strapped JDA to provide compensation of Rs 150 crore approximately," the official added.
 
 Sources said, there will be no utility of the Ring Road project till the time overbridges and flyovers are constructed. For Rs 810 crore Ring Road project, the NHAI has awarded work to Haryana-based firm Gawar Construction.
 
 
