Chandigarh: As the primary health system of this city seems be ailing a lot more since coming into the hands of the municipal corporation in 2010, local MP (Member of Parliament) Kirron Kher has written to UT administrator VP Singh Badnore for its transfer back to the administration.

 The UT health department took care of it earlier. In a long letter to Badnore, a copy of which is with TOI, Kirron has written: “I am deeply concerned with the delivery of the   facilities to the citizens of Chandigarh. It has been brought to my notice that 20 primary health centres were assigned to the MC in September 2010. The UT department of health and family welfare is bearing the expenditure on staff salaries and supplying medicines and other consumables to these 20 MC-controlled dispensaries. I feel that this arrangement is quite chaotic and confusing.”
 
 She writes further that the matter has been deliberated between the MC and the health department of the Union Territory for long and how these stakeholders should be directed to come out with a decision in a time-bound manner. The poor functioning of the primary health system has been raised several times in the MC general house meetings. Repeatedly, the municipal councillors have asked for staff in their wards and the payment of their salaries, so that the MC is able to take the full control of the primary health system and run the primary health department own way. But nothing on this front has happened, so far, and the condition of the primary health has continued to deteriorate.
 
 Kirron wrote to the administrator: “For seamless delivery of primary healthcare and implementation of the health programmes in Chandigarh… the administrative control of the health facilities (including civil hospital and urban and rural dispensaries) should be under the single control of the health and family welfare department of Chandigarh… I recommend that the administrative control of these dispensaries be transferred back to the UT department of health. It will ensure more accountability, better healthcare, and better implementation of the health programmes.”
 
 In the dock
 
 The municipal corporation needs to transfer primary health back to the Chandigarh Administration for better facilities to the public. I have already told the councillors about my wish but they have to discuss it in the general house first. Besides primary health, I feel that primary education should also go to the UT administration. Since the MC has been passing through financial crisis and is short of money to run schools and dispensaries, the administration is better equipped to run these crucial departments, so I have asked for it
 
 Kirron Kher | Chandigarh MP
 
 
