NEW DELHI: Union Finance Minister Arun   underwent a successful kidney transplant at the   ( ) on Monday and is stable after the more than four-hour surgery, hospital authorities said.

 
 Jaitley, 65, who has been mostly working from home since early April, was admitted to the hospital on Saturday.
 
 The surgery started around 8.30 am today and went on till 1 pm after which the minister was shifted to the Intensive Care Unit (ICU).
 
 Both the donor and the recipient are stable and recovering well with a team of senior doctors monitoring their condition round-the-clock, authorities said.
 
 AIIMS sources said the kidney was donated to Jaitley by a distant relative, a middle-aged woman.
 
 This falls under the category 'live unrelated donation', a senior doctor explained.
 
 "Living, unrelated donor could be anyone who is emotionally attached to the recipient, such as friend, a relative, a neighbour or an in-law. The authorisation committee had given its approval before the procedure," he said.
 
 Sources close to the minister said he is likely to remain in hospital for 10-15 days. Test reports after the surgery are normal and he is recovering well, they said.
 
 "Union Minister Jaitley underwent a renal transplant today. The surgery has been successful. Both the donor and the recipient are stable and recovering well," AIIMS authorities said.
 
  
  
 The surgery was carried out at the cardio-thoracic centre by a team of 20 personnel, including transplant surgeons and transplant anesthesiologists.
 
 The team included former chief of AIIMS renal transplant division Sandeep Guleria, currently working with Apollo Hospital, surgeon V K Bansal, nephrologist Sandeep Mahajan and AIIMS Director Randip Guleria.
 
 Sandeep Guleria is the brother of Randeep Guleria and a family friend of the minister's.
 
 BJP president Amit Shah and Union ministers Piyush Goyal and Jitender Singh visited AIIMS to see Jaitley after the surgery.
 
 Congress president Rahul Gandhi wished Jaitley a speedy recovery.
 
 "I'm happy to hear that Jaitley ji's  , today at AIIMS, went well. I wish him a speedy recovery," Gandhi wrote on Twitter.
 
 Jaitley, suffering from a kidney ailment, has been undergoing dialysis for the last one month.
 
 The transplant was initially scheduled in the first half of April but could not be conducted as the kidney from another living unrelated donor did not match, an official said.
 
 Ill-health had led to the minister cancelling his official trips to London and Washington last month.
 
 The minister had confirmed his illness in a tweet on April 6.
 
 "I am being treated for kidney related problems & certain infections that I have contracted," he had tweeted.
 
 Jaitley did not elaborate but said he was "currently working from controlled environment at home".
 
 "The future course of my treatment would be determined by the doctors treating me," he had said.
 
 In September 2014, Jaitley underwent a bariatric surgery to treat a long-standing diabetic condition and weight gain. The surgery was first performed at Max Hospital, but he had to be later shifted to AIIMS because of complications.
 
 Jaitley had a heart surgery several years ago.
 
