PUNE: Sharat Bhat, who secured the 31st rank in the Joint Entrance Examination (JEE) Main and is probably the highest scorer in the city with 333 marks, feels he is halfway through to his aim of getting into IIT Bombay.

 "I want to be a computer engineer," Sharat said. His father and elder sister are engineers while his mother is a housewife. "I used to have class for five and half hours and I studied for another five and half hours. But no matter what happened, I always slept for eight hours a day," Bhat said.
 
 
  
 
 His favourite hobby is star-gazing and he was also a silver medallist in 2015 Astronomy Olympiad.
 
 Speed and accuracy helped Arnhav Datar secure the all-India rank of 41. Arnhav has been preparing for the exam for five years .
 
 Arnhav said, "I will now focus on my JEE Advanced examination. I want to get into one of the top five Indian Institutes of Technology. Now, I will prepare with vigour for the advanced exam."
 
 Vaibhav Bakliwal, founder of Bakliwal Tutorials, said, "Students already knew their scores, but they were happy with the ranks declared as they were better than their expectations. Nine of our students have got ranks in the top 1,000 with around 400 selections."
 
 Pune-based IITian’s   (IITP) has over 306 students making it to the JEE Advanced exam.   secured 197 all-India rank, the best performance for this tutorial.
 
 “The JEE this year was the toughest in the past 16 years since AIEEE started in 2002. It is evident from the lowest cut-off ever,” Durgesh Mangeshkar, director of IIT-P, said.
 
 From FIITJEE’s Pune centre, 25 students scored more than 200 marks out of
 
 360. Anuj   got 323 marks for the 68th rank "I feel motivated to have scored well to clear  ,” Anuj said.
 
 From  , there are over 20 selections above the cut-off, Sukanya Sengupta from the institute said in a statement. From the Pune centre of  , more than 20 students scored over 200 marks, Lalit Kumar, chief managing director, of the academy said.
 
 Sri Chaitanya Pune’s Dheeraj Konde securing 281 marks with an AIR of
 
 530. A total of 151 students of their first batch qualified for JEE Advanced, a statement from the institution said.
 
