Trichy: It was indeed a proud moment for the city corporation, as 33 civic bodies on Monday paid a visit to the Micro Compost Centres (MCC), in a bid to study and replicate the envious success it has achieved in operating and maintaining the centres. The civic bodies, including offcials from four other corporations, made the move at the instruction of Commissionerate of Municipal Administration, so they could bring about the success in their respective corporations. Once replicated, the effort could render useless the massive compost yards normally required for storing daily waste. A total of 189 officials from 33 local bodies learnt the operation and maintenance of micro compost centres in the city on the day. Trichy is one of the few civic bodies that extensively implemented the decentralisation of waste collection, segregation, and recycling in the state. In August 2016, it started the decentralisation of solid waste collection and disposal by establishing MCC in Pookollai near Gandhi Market, with an objective to prevent domestic waste reaching the corporation’s 47 acres dump yard in Ariyamangalam every day. With the innovative drive, the corporation has installed a total of 23 micro compost centres which are daily segregating biodegradable and non-biodegradable wastes. The civic body also uses them to manufacture compost and supply them to general public and farmers for free. “Trichy Corporation was selected for state-level workshop on decentralised waste collection because of the extensive implementation of such facilities and success stories across the four zones of city,” corporation commissioner N Ravichandran told TOI. “From just one compost centre in August 2016, we have now facilitated a total of 23 compost centres in a space of 16 months. The visiting officials were provided technical information about the operation and maintenance of the facility,” he added. The corporation said 23 micro compost centres have helped them prevent 30-40 per cent of daily city waste, which could normally flow to the dump yards in Ariyamangalam, from reaching the usual sites. This was a second massive onsite training programme after the civic body officials from South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) toured the compost yards to study and introduce it at the same in national capital in July 2017.  “Compared to the one functioning micro-compost centre in our jurisdiction, the Corporation has been efficiently operating and handling the compost centres. We took note of the types of technical equipment used such as shredding machine for emulating the same in our centres,” A Prabhu, sanitary supervisor from Thiruverkadu Municipality said. Later, in a classroom session, 189 officials were sensitised with power-point presentations about the working of micro-compost centres.