JALANDHAR: The   government in Punjab was left red-faced on Friday after police officials booked its candidate for the Shahkot assembly by-election, 
  ‘Ladi Sherowalia’, in a case of illegal sand-mining. Ladi’s candidature had been confirmed just a day earlier.

 
 The case has been registered on a complaint sent by one Mohan Singh, general secretary Bhathha Mazdoor Union ( ) to the state chief electoral officer. He sent it to the district administration for “inquiry and report”.
 
 Adding even more drama to the raging controversy, Mehatpur police station SHO, Parminder Singh Bajwa, who registered the FIR against Ladi, first sent in a handwritten resignation to Jalandhar SSP (rural) on Friday but then withdrew it. By evening, Bajwa was on sick leave.
 
 In the resignation, circu by AAP leader Sukhpal Khaira, Bajwa claimed that he was resigning so that his seniors don’t have to face political pressure from the government.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 According to the charge sheet, Ramandeep was spotted by Harmeet Singh PhD on popular social media sites and he started radicalising him. In January 2015, Harmeet asked Ramandeep to travel to Dubai and get training to carry out the targeted killings. He arranged Rs 10,000 for him through hawala to get a passport.
 
 
 
 
 The two shooters did not have any direct contact except for one face-to-face meeting. Their activities were remote controlled by Harmeet, who operated from Lahore.
 
 
 
 
 The NIA claimed that its investigation has established that the weapons used in the seven killings and one attempted killing were purchased both by Hardeep and Ramandeep. The two shooters bought 10 weapons from various sources between September 2015 and July 2017.
 
 Ramandeep sourced five weapons through Dharminder Singh, alias Guguni. On the other hand, Hardeep purchased his weapons from Meerut and Ghaziabad in Uttar Pradesh. In line with their training, both the shooters bought these weapons independently, using a network of relatives.
 
 
 
 
 It moved a separate application that four other men — Harmeet Singh alias PhD, an ISIbacked pro-Khalistan activist operating from Lahore; Gursharanbir Singh, a British national allegedly involved in the killing of Rashtriya Sikh Sangat president Rulda Singh in July 2009; Gurjinder Singh Shastri, a resident of Brescia, Italy; and Gurjant Singh, a pro-Khalistan activist now residing in Australia — should be declared proclaimed offenders in the case.
 
 The NIA has pressed charges under Section 120 B (criminal conspiracy) against Johal and has charged Hardeep Singh Shera, Ramandeep Singh Bagga, Pahar Singh, Dharminder Singh Gugni, Anil Kala, Parvez, Malook, Amaninder Singh, Ravipal Singh and Manpreet Singh along with Johal under Sections 302, 34, 379 and 416 of the Indian Penal Code, Sections 16, 17, 18, 18A, 18B, 20, 21 and 23 of the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act and Sections 25 and 27 of the Arms Act.
 
 
 
 
 The NIA court summoned the records related to the death of KLF chief and Nabha jail escapee Harminder Singh Mintoo and directed the prosecution to put the same on record. As per NIA investigations, Mintoo, who died of cardiac arrest while being lodged at the Patiala central jail on April 18, had allegedly masterminded the targeted killings with the aim of destabilising law and order in Punjab and reviving terror.
 
