CHANDIGARH: With the opposition parties Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) and the Congress all set to take on the incumbent BJP over the issues of farmers, SYL and law and order, Haryana assembly is all set to have a stormy budget sessions. The session will start from Monday afternoon.

 Haryana governor   will address the assembly and recieve the guard of honour.
 
 In a bid to finalize the issues, the meeting of Congress legislature party (CLP) was held at the New Delhi residence of Bhupinder Hooda. While INLD has called the meeting of its MLAs at Chandigarh on Monday morning.
 
 In the 90 member house, BJP has 47 MLAs followed by 19 MLAs of INLD, 17 of the Congress, one each of BSP and SAD and five independent MLAs.
 
 CLP leader Kiran Choudhary said that the party has put 10 call to attention motions and adjournment motions over the issue of farmers, SYL, Law and order and the employees’ agitations.
 
 “I don’t think the government has any face to show in the assembly after its failures. We will show them the mirror. CM Khattar and his team have to face it,” said Choudhary.
 
 According to information, except for Kuldeep Bishnoi, Renuka Bishanoi and  , all the Congress MLAs were present during the meeting which lasted for over two hours.
 
 Ex Minister   said that Hooda might not be reaching assembly but the party MLAs would update him about the proceedings.
 
 INLD state president Ashok Arora said that besides having posted over 300 questions, the party has also put number of call to attention motions to be approved by the House speaker.
 
 “So far as issues are concerned, this government has nothing to show as its achievement or contribution towards the peace and prosperity of the state. Even its officers attend the meeting wearing the black badges,” said Arora.
 
 “Our MLAs are elected by the people and our leader in the house is thoroughly prepared for the session. Final strategy to be drawn during the meeting of INLD legislative party, which will be chaired by leader of opposition  ,” said Arora.
 
 
