KOLKATA: A sub-inspector posted with the Nadial police was allegedly assaulted by a man, who was summoned to the police station on Monday night in connection with a dispute between two groups in the Port area.

 The attack on an on-duty officer inside a police station has left the lower and middle level officers of Kolkata Police fuming. The top brass, though, acted swiftly. They got the accused — identified as   alias Bapi — arrested and took him in police custody till March 23.
 
 “We are ascertaining the facts of the case and what provoked Khan to behave in that manner ,” said DC (port)  . A source said a second officer was also assaulted, but cops denied the claims.
 
  
  
 
 According to a police source, the accused was asked to report to the police station along with a few others in a case related to enmity between two groups.
 
 “We had summoned both groups. After the interrogation and recording of statement were over around 9pm, the accused suddenly attacked SI Dilip Yadav. He not only threatened the cop, but also assaulted him. Khan was initially detained along with a few others and later arrested,” said an officer. A case under IPC sections 189 and 353 has been registered.
 
 The last time cops were attacked inside a police station was when a mob led by a Trinamool leader vandalized   police station and beat up cops in November 2014. Millions of   had then watched news footage showing policemen cowering under tables and scurrying for cover as glass panes and furniture were smashed all around them.
 
 The   government is working on a new law that will prescribe strong penal measures against people arrested for vandalism and arson amid incidents of increasing attacks on policemen in the state, a senior official said. Records indicate that in the recent years one or more policemen were attacked or heckled almost every month by leaders and supporters of political parties and even common citizens, who simply refused to follow the law.
 
 The Trinamool Congress government wants to bring the new legislation in force apprehending that these incidents might hit the morale of the police force and lead to severe consequences, an official said.
 
