KOLKATA: An octogenarian suffering from arthritis and incontinence who had paid a premium to book a front-row seat in a flight from Delhi to Kolkata to stretch his leg and be near the washroom was forced to travel in a different seat with cramped legroom and could not use the toilet even once during the two-hour flight.

 The trauma of the 88-year-old posted on Facebook and tagged #shameonindigoairlines by his grand-daughter drew sharp reactions against the airline from other travellers. An IndiGo spokesperson admitted the narration made in the post was true but reasoned the airline had no option but to act the way it did to meet regulatory requirements on safety. 
  
 
 
 Ajit Mitra, a former advocate who retired as registrar of Calcutta high court, had gone to Delhi to visit his daughter Kajari and grand-daughter Rai, something he has been religiously doing thrice-a-year for the past decade. “He has been an IndiGo loyalist and insists on taking the airline. A month-and-a-half ago, a return ticket was booked on the airline for March 5. Since he has weak arthritic knees and uses a walking stick for support and also suffers from incontinence, the front row seat 1E that provides extra leg room and proximity to washroom was booked after paying an additional Rs 600. Little did we know he would be deprived of the seat and arbitrarily shifted to seat 2F on boarding the flight,” said Rai, who has just graduated from college.
 
 It was at the boarding gate that IndiGo staff changed the seat number with a pen. “The least the airline could have done was explain to my grandfather why he was being shifted and offered him an aisle seat so that he could access the washroom. Instead, he was put on a window-side seat that made it impossible for him to cross two persons and access the washroom,” fumed Rai.
 
 An airline spokesperson said the problem had occurred because one of the three aircraft leased for three months on December 28, 2017, which had an exit next to the first row of seats, had been deployed for the   flight on Monday.
 
 “As per norms by regulator  , persons with reduced mobility cannot be seated in a row that has an emergency exit. Hence, we had to move the passenger a row back. Since the aisle seats were already occupied, we had to seat him by the window,” the spokesperson said. He said the additional charge for special seat allotment had been refunded to the passenger and the airline had expressed its apology.
 
