PANAJI: Starting Monday, 18,502 students will appear for the Class XII examinations of the   and Higher Secondary Education. Last year, 18,776 students had appeared for the exams. 

 Flying squads introduced in recent years to keep a check on cheating during the examinations will continue this year as well, chairperson   said.
 
 Three flying squads, one each for North, South and Central zone, comprising retired principals of higher secondary schools, will carry out surprise visits in examination halls, he said.
 
 The Class XII exam will begin on March 5 for all four streams - arts, science, commerce and vocational, with the first language paper of English/Marathi. Following this, students will get a day’s break and will answer the next paper on Wednesday. Students will get six such breaks throughout the Class XII examination for revision. This is expected to improve the performance of students by reducing stress.
 
 The Class XII exam will be held across 16 centres and will end on March 26.
 
 The exam will begin at 10am on each day, and students who arrive more than half-an-hour after the exam begins will be disqualified from appearing for the paper,   instructions state. “Candidates shall not be allowed to leave the examination hall before 11am,” board instructions read, as a measure to prevent leakage of the question paper.
 
 This year, as per a new board policy, teachers engaged by the board will be fined for making mistakes. Rs 25 will be deducted per mistake as penalty for errors made while conducting the exam. Such measures introduced over the years have helped bring down the number of cheating cases at the Class X and XII public exams, to nearly nil.
 
 Under the Goa Prevention of Malpractices at Universities, Board and other Examinations Act, 1991, intimidation or cheating at exams is a cognizable and non-bailable offence Students can be awarded 6-month prison term or fine of Rs 500 if found guilty. The results of students indulging in cheating could also be held back. 
 
 
