GUWAHATI:   chief minister   rushed to New Delhi on Monday to hold talks on the joint parliamentary committee’s (JPC) visits to the state regarding the Citizenship (Amendment) Bill of 2016 –– a matter which has touched a raw nerve among people of his state who fear that the bill will reduce the indigenous communities to a minority. He will also hold talks on the   (NRC) of Assam –– the first partial draft of which was published on December 31, 2017.
 
  The rest will be published on June 30, 2018. A JPC team, which visited Assam early this month, faced fierce protests against the bill which proposes Indian citizenship to be granted to minority communities such as Hindus, Sikhs, Buddhists, Jains, Parsis and Christians from Afghanistan,   and Pakistan. There has been demand for more sittings of the JPC, especially from Upper Assam, the hill districts and areas near the international border. The JPC is yet to decide on dates of its next visit to Assam. A senior Assam government official told ET, “Sonowal is called to discuss the state’s situation as Assam is witnessing bitter protests against the bill. Sonowal is likely to hold a meeting with home minister Rajnath Singh on the bill and the publication of draft NRC.”
  
  
 
  Sonowal has his back to the wall as allies of his BJP government like the Asom Gana Parishad (AGP) have expressed their opposition to the bill and it would go against his grain to support such a bill as he is known to be a crusader of indigenous rights. Sonowal had earlier fought against the Illegal Migrants (Determination by Tribunal) Act, 1983, which was scrapped by SC in 2005 –– a victory which earned Sonowal the title of being a “Yati Nayak” (hero of the race). Recently, Asom Gana Parishad (AGP) leaders met the Home Minister in New Delhi and opposed the bill. AGP president and agriculture minister Atul Bora had opposed the bill at a meeting attended by BJP president Amit Shah in Guwahati recently.
  
  Sonowal is also facing a bitter attack from All Assam Students Union and other organisations. There is pressure on Sonowal to take a stand similar to Meghalaya, where the Conrad Sangma-led Meghalaya Democratic Alliance, which has BJP as a coalition partner, has decided to oppose the bill. There is opposition to the bill in Arunachal Pradesh and Mizoram as well.
  
  While Sonowal has repeatedly asserted that he will not do anything which is against the interest of Assam, some BJP MLAs feel that there is conspiracy going on against him.
  
  BJP MLA Rituparna Baruah said Sonowal is an expert on foreigners’ issue. “There is a conspiracy going on against Sonowal to create problems for his government. Funds are being pumped in to achieve the same. Some people are wary as Sonowal is fast emerging as a strong leader of the region. There is an attempt to arrest his popularity.”
  
