NEW DELHI: After failing to comply with the Supreme Court’s   to deposit   to safeguard the interest of   seeking  , troubled real estate major   claimed before the court on Monday that a Chennai-based firm had agreed to buy two tracts of its land for Rs 400 crore.

 On October 30, the SC had asked Unitech to deposit Rs 750 crore in court for refund to homebuyers and had said the firm's MD Sanjay Chandra could approach the court for bail after depositing the money.
 
 
 It had allowed Unitech officials and lawyers to meet Chandra in jail and permitted video conferencing facilities in Tihar jail to help Chandra negotiate deals with buyers for the company's properties and assets.
 
 The firm’s counsel told a bench of Chief Justice Dipak Misra and Justices A M Khanwilkar and D Y Chandrachud that though Unitech had failed to deposit the amount directed by the SC, it had entered into an agreement with a Chennai-based firm, which had offered Rs 400 crore for two tracts of land.
 
 Amicus curiae Pawan Shree Agrawal informed the court that Unitech had not deposited a “single penny” since the October 30 order except Rs 18 crore deposited before that.
 
 “Total deposits required to satisfy the refund demands from homebuyers, who have invested in Unitech’s housing projects across the country, would be Rs 2,000 crore. The firm is only buying time from the court,” he said.
 
 After learning about the agreement to sell from Unitech, the bench issued notice to the Chennai-based firm and asked it to come with a bank draft of Rs 400 crore on February 16 to be deposited with the apex court registry in exchange for the two tracts of land. The SC brushed aside Unitech’s plea to grant parole to Chandra to negotiate deals in person to generate the money required for refund.
 
 The bench said if the Chennai-based buyer deposited Rs 400 crore as informed by Unitech, the court, in the next hearing, would consider distribution of the amount pro-rata among homebuyers who wanted refund.
 
 When counsel for some homebuyers expressed willingness to take possession of flats on as is where is basis, the bench asked them to approach the amicus curiae, who in turn was asked to prepare a chart of such persons and hand it over to the court on the next date of hearing.
 
 On October 30, Unitech’s counsel Ranjit Kumar had told the SC that out of 16,000 homebuyers in various projects across the country, only 5,000 wanted refund. “The company needs time to monetise its assets to generate Rs 1,000 crore. It is ready to deposit Rs 500 crore in court and utilise the balance Rs 500 crore to construct flats for allotment to a vast majority of homebuyers who want possession of their homes,” he had said.
 
