JALANDHAR: Gangster Saraj Mintu, wanted for   in Amritsar, has been arrested by the Organized Crime Control Unit (OCCU) of Punjab Police.   was on the run since the broad daylight murder on October 30, 2017.

 While several right wing groups and a few mainstream politicians had tried to build the perception that the murder was in the series of targeted killings of Hindu leaders in the state, police officials on Tuesday again confirmed that Mintu told them during preliminary questioning that Sharma’s murder was an outcome of personal rivalry. Mintu told police that he and his friend Shubham believed that Sharma had helped the killer of latter’s father Baljinder Singh, a suspended constable.
 
 Disclosing the details of Mintu’s arrest and his preliminary questioning, OCCU assistant inspector general of police (AIG) H P S Khakh said the gangster was arrested on a specific input around 6.15am from Bidhipur railway crossing. “He said that he had come from Delhi and intended to go to Amritsar. While earlier he sported a trimmed beard, but now was clean shaven in a bid to change his looks,” he said.
 
 “In preliminary questioning he has confirmed that they killed Sharma out of personal rivalry as Shubham and he believed that it was Sharma who had provided weapons to Simranjit Singh, who killed Shubham’s father. Simranjeet had animosity with Shubham. He has stuck to the details which he posted on his Facebook account, in which he had denied that the murder had any communal orientation. Still, we shall question him more regarding this and some other cases,” AIG Khakh said. 
 
 Before Sharma’s murder, Mintu got Shubham released from police custody on September 1 last year. “He and his five-six accomplices attacked a police party and freed Shubham when the latter was being taken to be produced in an Amritsar court. As soon as the bus, in which Shubham was being taken to the court, reached Rayya, they entered the bus and started a scuffle with the police party and even fired at and injured ASI Sukhjinder Singh and then fled with Shubham. Two months later both of them shot dead Sharma,” Khakh said.
 
 Shubham was an ‘A’ category gangster carrying a reward of Rs 5 lakh. This is the first time Mintu has been arrested since 2015 when he started indulging in crimes. Police officials said that he was receiving instructions from two other gangsters Jaggu Bhagwanpuria and Bobby Blahotra, who are lodged in Hoshiarpur and Amritsar jails, respectively. “We are planning to take both of them on production warrant for questioning as Shubham had at least killed two other fellows on their instructions,” the AIG said.
 
 Meanwhile, the police also recovered two sophisticated pistols and ammunition from him. Khakh said that Mintu was also involved in four other murders, a couple of bank robberies and other crimes.
 
 
