The results of Karnataka   announced on Friday cemented many dreams, not just of students but also their parents and teachers. TOI asked a few   what drove them to scale such heights and what they plan to do next

 First rank icing on the cake for Vijayapura boy
 
 * Shridhar Dodamani, Vijayapura
 
 Shridhar Dodamani, Karnataka CET 2018 topper in engineering and agriculture streams, is on cloud nine. “I had calculated the scores and thought I would be ranked anywhere between 6 and 10. But I’m elated to clinched the top spot,” he told TOI.
 
 From Ukkali village in Basavana Bagewadi taluk of Vijayapura district, the aspiring engineer comes from a humble background with no access to expert and targeted coaching. Shridhar’s father Sanganabasappa S Dodamani is the headmaster of Excellent English Medium School in Ittnagihal village, while his mother Prabhavati works in Chaitanya Women Cooperative Bank. His elder brother Shankar is an MBBS student.
 
 Shridhar studied in his father’s school from classes 6 to 10 and later moved to Vijaypura and enrolled in Excellent PU College. “I studied for five hours daily after college. Thanks to my teachers, I didn’t need tuitions to crack competitive exams,” he said.
 
 Shivanand Kelur, president of Excellent School of Education, said, “Shridhar has not only made the district proud but has also ended the educational drought it faces.”
 
 Daily revision, thorough study keys to his success
 
 * Narayan Pai,  
 
 “One should have interest in a subject in order to top it. Daily revision is important. It doesn’t matter how many hours one studies, but how well they are utilised, said Narayan Pai from Sharada Vidyalaya PU College in Dakshina Kannada district, who bagged the second rank in engineering stream and fifth in pharmacy.
 
 Narayan said he used to revise whatever was taught in class. “I studied for 3-4 daily. My interest in the subjects, optimum utilisation of time and ability to concentrate resulted in my success,” he said.
 
 Son of banker Surendra Pai and homemaker Sudha, he has scored 96.67% in II PU and 224 out of 360 in JEE. “I’m planning to pursue computer science engineering at NIT-K, Surathkal. I also aspire to join an  . If I get a seat, I will go for it.” 
 
 Narayan attended coaching on the college campus. He completed Class 10 from Kendriya Vidyalaya 2, Yekkur. 
 
 Township celebrates Ballari boy’s success
 
 *Debarsho Sannyasi, Ballari
 
 Debarsho Sannyasi from Jindal Vidya Mandir, Ballari, has secured third rank in engineering and fourth rank in pharmacy. “I never expected the third rank. I was more focused on JEE/NEET. I attended coaching at Avanti Learning Center, Jindal Steel Works, Toranagallu and am awaiting JEE Advance results,” he said.
 
 Debarsho, who bagged the 425th rank in JEE Mains, wants to study computer science engineering at any IIT. His father Anish Sannyasi, AGM, Jindal Steel Works, is basking his son’s success. “The whole township is in celebratory mode,” he said. His mother Debjani is a homemaker. The family moved from Kolkata to Ballari seven years ago. 
 
 Debarsho, who studied in a CBSE school in the township, said he focused on his board exams for only one and a half months. 
 
 BWSSB chief’s son focused more competitive exams
 
 *Tuhin Girinath
 
 Tuhin Girinath, son of Tushar Girinath, an IAS officer of the Karnataka cadre and BWSSB chairman, aims to join an IIT. Although he’s not sure of joining the civil services, Tuhin said he aspired to be like his father since childhood. 
 
 “It is news to me that my son aspires to become like me. He was brought up in a culture of civil servants but we never drilled it into him to become an engineer or one of us,” laughed Tushar.
 
 Tuhin studied at Narayana E-Techno School in Kundanahalli, Bengaluru and scored 484 out of 500 in CBSE Class 12 exams. Ranked 65 in JEE Mains, he is awaiting results of JEE Advanced. He says he focused more on competitive exams than board exams. “School teaching was enough to secure about 90% in board exams but my coaching at Narayana Sindhu Bhavan helped me crack JEE,” he said.
 
 Tuhin studied 10 to 14 hours daily ahead of the test. He had stopped playing his favourite sport basketball two years ago. “I broke my hand just before Class 10 board exams and had to take the help of a scribe, all because of a basketball match. Afraid, I have not played or swam in two years,” he added.
 
 B’luru girl took a break from piano classes
 
 *Aneeta James, Bengaluru
 
 The fifth-rank holder in the engineering stream, Aneeta James from National Public School (Indiranagar), is the only girl in the top five. Aneeta, who secured the second spot in the pharmacy stream, is waiting for JEE Advanced results. She discontinued piano classes and extra-curricular activities for two years to focus on studies.
 
 “I studied for 12hours in the coaching centre every week apart from school. I want to become a computer science engineer because the branch gives you a lot of scope to specialise and the job opportunities are immense. I am waiting for the results to zero in on a college, preferably an IIT,” she said. Aneeta also wrote the BIT test.
 
 Her father James Thomas, a corporate professional, said, “I am a proud father of two daughters. I want my girls to do exceptionally well and not many girls, even today, do well in engineering.” Aneeta’s sister is an engineer who works in Singapore.
 
 — Harshita Saraf
 
 
