NEW DELHI: “I have been punished for speaking the truth,” said   after the Aam Aadmi Party announced its three nominees for Rajya Sabha. It had been evident over the past few days that he stood little chance, having taken on the party leadership. On Wednesday, his bitterness was reflected in yet another attack on the leadership and sarcasm over the party’s choices. 

 “In the the past one-and-a-half years, I have been speaking the truth about Arvind Kejriwal’s decisions on issues like surgical strike, internal corruption, soft stance towards extremists in Punjab, JNU row and ticket distribution (in Punjab). It is difficult to survive in Aam Aadmi Party if somebody disagrees with Kejriwal. For doing so, I have been rewarded with punishment,” said Vishwas.
 
 His voice dripping with sarcasm, he said: “I want to congratulate Kejriwal and Aam Aadmi Party volunteers for the selection of “great revolutionaries for becoming the voice of the revolutionaries in the Rajya Sabha,” he said. “The party has chosen another great Guptaji known as ND Gupta who has been very concerned about the volunteers and the revolution, and I congratulate the volunteers for it,” he said.
 
 Cracks had appeared in relations between Vishwas and Kejriwal when the former disagreed with the party’s stand on the surgical strike. After the Delhi civic polls last year, Vishwas again countered the party’s stand that only EVMs were responsible for its drubbing and suggested that other factors too were be be blamed. In a national executive meeting after the civic polls, Vishwas was grilled by   MLAs who also questioned his loyalty to the party. 
 
 “Yahan hum sab apni ladai lad rahe hai. Sabko ladne pade apne apne yudh, chahe Raja Ram ho ya Gautam Buddh,” (We have to fight our own battles) he said on Wednesday. Vishwas alleged that Kejriwal had told him at a national executive meeting that they would finish him but not allow him to become a martyr. He urged Kejriwal to ask AAP functionaries not to attack him.
 
 Meanwhile, former AAP functionaries   and Mayank Gandhi criticised the choice of Sushil Gupta. “I used to say whatever his other faults, Kejriwal cannot be bought. Defended him against Kapil Mishra’s allegations. Now I don't know what to say. Speechless, ashamed and numb,” tweeted Yadav.
 
 
