GANDHINAGAR: The   is under pressure from industry to deliver on the financial incentives it had promised under its industrial policy for  , in new  . The benefits to industry ended on July 1, 2017, but still the Gujarat government has not yet made a policy decision, even after 10 months. 

 Industrial units from conglomerates to MSMEs are facing major issues, as the state government has stopped the financial incentives given under the VAT regime.
 
 The chief secretary held a meeting with the state finance, industry and mines department officials and stakeholders from the industry to sort out the issue, but the huge gap between VAT and   collections is a major issue and the state government is still unclear on how to compensate financial losses to industry for the incentives promised under the VAT regime under the GST regime.
 
 A senior officer privy to the development said, “Under the VAT regime, we would reimburse industry under extant policies in proportion to VAT paid. VAT was computed on manufacturing in the state. However, under the GST regime, taxes are on consumption, so all major manufacturers are facing problems. Under VAT, the tax was coming directly to the state exchequer while in GST we get taxes only on products sold in state. The major car makers would get VAT reimbursement on VAT paid, while under GST they can claim only it on GST paid on sales in the state, which is a tenth of their production. A few tried to show sales to local dealers, but that it not legal, so the state government has refused to approve such transactions.”
 
 “The state government is now exploring options to consider the demands of industry. In principle, the government is of the view that we cannot give incentives worth more than taxes received. To promote employment, we also want industry to work and expand, thus we are trying to develop a balanced formula. 
 
 The government could opt for various other direct-indirect benefits to compensate the losses suffered under the GST regime. We expect to make policy changes shortly,” a source said.
 
 
