NEW DELHI: A bitter dispute between brothers over parking their cars outside their   house ended in a knifing and shooting incident that left the two brothers and the wife of one of them dead outside the house on Thursday night.

 
  
  
 
 Siblings Gurjeet and Jaspal had been fighting over ancestral property, worth more than Rs 100 crore, and the parking space outside it for the past five years.
 
 The deceased woman,  , was Jaspal’s wife who had tried to shield him from a hail of bullets fired by Gurjeet’s PSOs.
 
 “Both of them had multiple cars but not enough space to park them,” said their elder brother Satnam Singh.
 
 Family members say that at around 11pm Jaspal had stepped out to see off his friend,  , and was chatting with him outside his house when Gurjeet, his two PSOs,   and Pawan, and his son Jagnoor arrived in Gurjeet’s Toyota Fortuner car and asked Jaspal to move his Audi car from a parking space outside his house. When Jaspal refused, Gurjeet got into an argument with him and his PSO smashed the rear windshield of Jaspal’s car.
 
 Their elder brother, Satnam, who was reversing his own car nearby, said Jaspal presumed that Gurjeet’s PSOs would attack him and pulled out his kirpan. The argument led to a scuffle during which Jaspal stabbed Gurjeet. When Jagnoor tried to intervene he, too, was injured.
 
 Seeing Gurjeet collapse, Vikky and Pawan opened fire at Jaspal. In the meantime, Jaspal’s wife, who had stepped out of their house to resolve the issue and tried to save her husband, was hit in the head by a bullet. Jaspal tried to run away but was shot in the hip twice. He managed to enter a neighbour’s house and lie down on a swing.
 
 Hearing the gunshots, Jaspal’s daughter, Harpriya, rushed out and raised an alarm, following which the PSOs fled. “She found her mother on the road, bleeding from the head, and took her to a hospital with the help of a couple passing by. No one had noticed Jaspal, who by then was unconscious on the swing at the neighbour’s house,” said Satnam.
 
 Gurjeet was admitted to a private hospital by his elder son, Gurnoor, where he was declared dead on arrival. Prabhjot, too, had died on the way to hospital. Meanwhile, family members who were looking for Jaspal were told by the police that he had been admitted to another hospital after a PCR team had followed a blood trail to find him unconscious on the neighbour’s swing. Doctors said he had died due to excessive blood loss. “It all happened within two minutes. I had met both their families before the incident and resolved some property issues between them. However, parking space remained a point of contention,” said Satnam.
 
 Additional DCP A K Lall formed a team, led by ACP Hukma Ram, to track down the two PSOs after registering two cases of murder on the complaint of the family members of Jaspal and Gurjeet. The men were tracked down to their villages. The licensed pistols and the kirpan used in the killings have been recovered from them.
 
 During interrogation, the two PSOs claimed that Gurjeet’s son, Jagnoor, had told them to shoot at his uncle and aunt when he saw his father stabbed.
 
