AHMEDABAD:   high court has directed the   (SMC) to launch an inquiry into a 12-year-old girl’s birth certificate after her biological parents objected to insertion of her foster father’s name in the certificate.

 An NRI couple – Shabbir and Naseem Badshah – has been fighting a legal battle to insert the biological father’s name (Shabbir) in child’s birth certificate. At present, the birth certificate issued by SMC mentions child’s foster father Murtuza Gilitwala’s name as her father.
 
 According to case details, the Badshah couple had a third daughter born in 2006 at   in Maharashtra. On sixth day of her birth, the child was given in adoption informally to Naseem’s cousin   and his wife  , for they were a childless couple. After the biological parents moved to Australia, a new birth certificate was issued for the child in Surat which mentioned Murtuza’s name as her father.
 
 The Badshahs came to know about change in father’s name in their daughter’s birth certificate and took an exception to this. An FIR was lodged against Gilitwala in Surat for forging documents because he had allegedly filed an affidavit with the authority to get the birth certificate mentioning his name as biological father.
 
 However, this did not solve the problem of biological parents and they approached the high court for change in name in the birth certificate. They even produced another birth certificate issued at the time of child’s birth at Nashik, in which Shabbir’s name was mentioned as a father. A single-judge bench rejected the petition for direction to SMC to make changes in the birth certificate and insert Badshah’s name as child’s father.
 
 However, during the hearing before a division bench, Gilitwala claimed that he had not filed any affidavit before the SMC authority. The authority, on the other hand, maintained that the birth certificate was issued on the basis of the affidavit. This discrepancy led the bench of Chief Justice R S Reddy and Justice Vipul Pancholi to order SMC to conduct an inquiry in the issue.
 
 
