JAIPUR: The Rajsamand police in its chargesheet against hate crime accused   have stated that he used 'love jihad' as a plot to cover his illicit relationship with a girl whom he claimed to have "rescued" from  .

 Police have booked Raigar under nine IPC sections, including 302 (murder), 153 (promoting enmity between different groups), 295-A (outraging religious feelings), 501 (printing or engraving matter known to be defamatory), 120-B (criminal conspiracy) and other relevant sections of the IT Act.
 
 Raigar on December 6 had hacked a 50-year-old migrant worker   to death and burnt his body. 
 
 
 
 
 Jaipur: He also recorded the video of the grisly crime to give it a “communal violence overtone”.
 
 Relying on witnesses’ statements, including that of his wife, the police said Raigar planned the ghastly murder to turn away attention from his illicit relationship and spin it as an act of revenge against migrant labourers allegedly involved in ‘love jihad’.
 
 “Raigar had a relationship with a girl in his neighbourhood; she had eloped with one Ballu Shiekh to Saidpur in West Bengal. He was asked by her mother to bring her daughter back. Raigar went to West Bengal but the girl refused to come back. The girl returned after a few months, but she was kept at a rented house by the accused for 10 months,” a police official said.
 
 Raigar kept the girl inside a house which she shared with a nurse. “He had relationship with the nurse too, who one day found him and the girl in an intimate position,” the official added.
 
 The mother of the girl, meanwhile, moved panchayat which imposed a fine of Rs 10,000 on Raigar and directed him to return the girl to her mother. “Even after she returned to Rajasthan, the girl kept speaking to Ballu Shiekh over phone which had irked Raigar. Shiekh and Raigar had heated arguments over this,” the official said.
 
 The accused developed a deep sense of animosity against Shiekh and his other friends from West Bengal who worked in Rajsamand. He wanted to drive them out of the town. The accused zeroed in on one Afrazul.
 
 “The victim used to provide shelter and work to migrant workers from Bengal, Raigar thought if he could kill Afrazul, then Sheikh and his friends will also leave the town,” the official said.
 
 
 
