JALANDHAR: Jagdish Raj   was elected the mayor of   municipal corporation (JMC) on Thursday while Surinder Kaur was chosen the senior deputy mayor and Harsimranjit Singh Bunty, the deputy mayor. As the   has 65 out of 80 councillors, their election was a smooth process and it was completed within minutes.

 Raja is the senior most councillor in the   and had remained the leader of the opposition for 10 years. He was first elected to the Jalandhar civic body in 1992 and this is the fifth time he has become a councillor. His wife Anita Raja is also a councillor and remained senior deputy mayor from 2002 to 2007.
 
 Starting the first meeting of the house, Jalandhar divisional commissioner Raj Kamal Chaudhary administered oath to the newly-elected councillors and then the election process was held. Four Congress MLAs—Pargat Singh, Rajinder Beri, Bawa Henry and Sushil Rinku—were also present.
 
 Balraj Thakur, who is also a senior councillor and was contender for the top posts, presided over the election process. Raja’s name was proposed by MLA Beri. The names were finalized by chief minister   who sent an envelope containing names through education minister Aruna Chaudhary.
 
 The Congress high command has tried to strike a balance between the seniority as well as caste representation while choosing faces for the top offices in the MC, said sources, adding, Raja is the senior most councillor and Surinder, a Dalit, is a four-time councillor.
 
 According to sources, MLA Rinku was not very happy with Surinder’s elevation as she could be a contender for the ticket from West (reserved) constituency. Meanwhile, Bunty is considered close to Rinku and was part of his ‘dynamic group’ of the Congress councillors in the previous House.
 
 Soon after their election, Raja and his deputies addressed a press conference. When asked, would he go to the bottom of different scandals that he and his party’s councillors had raised while they were in opposition, Raja said, “I need time and we shall do everything.”
 
 To make room for 20 additional councillors in this term, MC officials ensured that husbands of 44 women councillors stayed outside the meeting hall so that all the elected members of the Jalandhar civic body, officials and media could be accommodated.
 
 
