MUMBAI: Anti-corruption crusader   on Tuesday rejected the   to reconsider his decision to launch an indefinite strike in Delhi from March 23. 

 The activist said it was too late to reverse his decision. Hazare’s contention is that despite specific promises, the NDA government has failed to appoint a Lokpal in Delhi and Lokayuktas across the country.
 
 As an emissary of the NDA government and chief minster Devendra Fadnavis, senior BJP leader and water resources minister   held several meetings with Hazare on Monday and Tuesday to persuade him to reconsider his decision, but the activist refused to oblige. Fadnavis also spoke to Hazare. 
 
 “We requested him to reconsider his decision on the grounds that the issues raised by him could be discussed and resolved as well as the steps taken by the government on his demands. However, Anna Hazare did not agree and submitted that there was no change in his decision,” Mahajan told TOI. On Hazare’s demands, Mahajan said that he has demanded immediate appointment of the Lokpal in Delhi and Lokayukta in all states, increase in minimum support price, pension for all farmers and farm labourers, right to recall elected representatives and implementation of the Swaminathan Commission’s recommendations on farmers’ welfare. “We have taken serious note of the demands raised by Anna Hazare,” Mahajan said. After Hazare made it clear that there was no change in his decision, Fadnavis too urged him to reconsider his decision and said that the NDA and state government were prepared to discuss his demands.
 
 A senior official said Hazare is unhappy over the manner in which the NDA government has dealt with his letters to Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Ever since Modi took over the reins in 2014, Anna Hazare had written 43 letters to Modi, but so far, there was no response. Even for securing permission for the March 23 agitation, Hazare had written 16 letters to the NDA government for allotment of a venue. On Saturday, Hazare was allotted space near Ramleela grounds in Delhi. In the past too, during the UPA rule, Anna Hazare had resorted to an indefinite strike, then he was joined by Aam Aadmi Party leader Arvind Kejriwal and veteran IPS officer Kiran Bedi. Subsequnetly, Kejriwal was elected chief minister of Delhi, Bedi unsuccessfully contested the assembly polls as a BJP nominee and now she is a governor. In view of his bitter experience, Hazare has now made it clear that there will be no entry for politicians like Kejriwal in his movement.
 
 
