Panaji: The urban development department has finalized a parcel of land measuring 20,000 sqm at Cunchelim near Mapusa for building a burial ground that would cater to different religious communities. “The plot will be divided among religious communities such as the Catholics, Hindus, Muslims, Khojas and Protestants. A part of the land would also be maintained for the burial of unclaimed bodies,” said urban development minister Francis D’Souza.  The land, he said, has been bought partly from a private individual and leased from the comunidade, for a total consideration of Rs 8 crore. “The chief minister has approved finances for purchasing the land,” he added. At present, Muslims of Mapusa face a lot of difficulties in this regard. The authorities have told the community that the ‘one person, one grave’ rule cannot be implemented due to paucity of land, said D’Souza. According to the rule, one grave is allocated per family and has to be emptied after every three years. Protestants, who are about 1% of the population, are also facing similar problems. “Recently, I received a representation from the Protestant community. I believe, when someone dies, he or she has no religion,” he said. He said Goa is slowly turning into a cosmopolitan state and hence, require burial facilities for all religions. As far as Margao is concerned, he said town and country planning minister Vijai Sardesai has assured him of solving the problem. The minister said that there has been an influx of Muslims in the state since the last 10-15 years and they have outnumbered native Muslims. There has been a clash between the two groups. In Sanguem taluka, a burial facility for Hindus, Muslims and Catholic has been built. The port town has also met the requirements of all communities. D’Souza said he alone was working hard to resolve this burial issue. “Other politicians would perhaps have devoted their time in addressing the issue if the dead could cast their votes,” he said.  The plot will be divided among religious communities such as the Catholics, Hindus, Muslims, Khojas and Protestants. A part of the land would also be maintained for the burial of unclaimed bodies