AMARAVATI: Chief Minister   on Friday wooed investors in Singapore and across the globe to look for opportunities in Andhra Pradesh with the assurance that TDP government will build one lakh hotel rooms and put in place a strong infrastructure.

 Speaking at a round-table conference organised by   in Singapore, Naidu said: “We want to build one lakh hotel rooms in AP to promote tourism and conferences. Our agriculture sector is very dynamic and we are in the process of building infrastructure, cold storage and logistics. We have got great human resources and a terrific opportunity of building a great capital city.” Explaining the opportunities available in AP, the CM gave a detailed presentation about his vision of making AP one of the top 3 states in India by 2022, top state in India by 2029 and a knowledge and business hub of the world by 2050.
 
 On AP’s approach towards development, CM said, “We are using technology in governance to a great effect. We have initiated Real Time Governance. Along with industries, we are also focusing heavily on agriculture and rural sector so that purchasing power of people of increases.”
 
 Answering a question on competition with China which has a strong supply chain and how he plans to counter it, Naidu said: “It depends on the policy framework. We have put a right policy into effect along with great incentives. This is the reason that companies like Xiaomi and Foxcon have come to AP.”
 
 Earlier, interacting in a round table organised by International Enterprise Singapore, Naidu invited investors to participate in transforming cities like Visakhapatnam, Tirupati and Amaravati. “Food processing, electrical vehicles, horticulture, aquaculture and automobiles are all prospective sectors,” he said. The CM said he has been observing Singapore for some time now and admiring its development “I used to visit the streets of Singapore early in the morning to see how they are cleaned. I adopted the same method in Hyderabad. For 10 years, I made sure that Hyderabad was the cleanest city in India,” he said. Naidu said the AP government is working towards making Amaravati a happy city. “It will not be just a smart one or a happening one. We want it to be the most liveable city with respect to mobility, greenery, housing and education,” he said.
 
 
