AHMEDABAD: Board exams in Gujarat for class X students are a fortnight away and there are no signs that students are learning what they are taught in class. The NCERT-led National Achievement Survey (NAS) of class X students across 358 government and government-aided school in Gujarat found that our children are performing much below the national average in the Secondary School Certificate (SSC) or class X. The NAS survey should be an eye-opener for the education department, even as they mull over introducing a ‘CBSE type’ syllabus in the coming academic session.

 The national average assessment for English, mathematics, science, social science and   was 250 points. But students in Gujarat scored 225 points in English, 231 in mathematics, 228 in science and 233 in social science. In each subject, three test booklets were used to assess learning levels in depth in each of the subjects. The average performance of students in the state from urban areas was significantly higher than in rural areas in all five subjects, except language. 
 
  
  
 
 Gender-wise, girls outperformed boys across all subjects, though the overall performance of both boys and girls was way below the national average. In the Gujarati language, for instance girls scored 245 points while boys scored 230 points. In subjects like maths, science and social science girls scored 233, 228 and 235 points respectively, while boys were just one to three points behind them.
 
 There was a marked difference of at least 10 to 12 points in performance levels. For instance if rural students on average scored 223 in science, their urban counterparts scored 235. In case of social sciences, rural students scored 229 while their urban counterparts scored 239. In maths, however, there was difference of just a point or three point between rural and urban students.
 
 “The latest NAS survey clearly shows the levels of teaching at our schools. The government talks of skill-based learning, but it seems our children are not even learning their basics. This is why even as investments pour in, factories are set up, our children don’t even qualify for these jobs,” said   spokesperson Manish Doshi. He adds, “The state government should get their basics right, to ensure quality education,” says Doshi.
 
 
 
