MUMBAI: Sunday mornings on   has been different for the past four weeks now. Instead of the usual honking vehicles, the residents hear sounds of laughter. 

 The 3km stretch of road was reserved for pedestrian use from 7am to 11am in an initiative by Equal Streets supported by the Times of India. Around 30,000 people took part in the movement, which aims at reclaiming roads for pedestrian use. 
 
 “When I wake up in the morning and look out of the window, it is so refreshing to see kids cycling and skating on the roads, rather than cars go by,” says Shruti, a Linking Road resident who decided to join in on the merrymaking. 
 
  
 Not just bikers, one can meet chess enthusiasts, street artists, photographers, yoga experts and badminton players, all on the same street indulging in activities of their own. 
 
 Alok, a ten-year-old, was seen visiting Equal Streets for the first time. 
 
 “I had heard about this from my friends in school and wanted to come here for a long time. My father brought me here today,” he said . 
 
 Yasmin and Aspi Shroff have been coming here since Equal Streets started. Every week they teach people the value of self love and appreciation. Their stall, named ‘Possibilities’, attracts a lot of attention. 
 
 “I am an engineer from IIT. But as I went along in life, I realised what was wrong with our current education system. I am an anti-educator,” said Aspi. 
 
 Yasmin’s favourite game is ‘Broken Mirror’ in which she shows a broken piece of mirror to the audience and asks them what they see. 
 
 “We feel broken at times, just like the mirror. But we need to realise that we are not broken people. The image behind the mirror is intact and that is something we need to realise,” she said. 
 
 Another crowd-puller was ‘Mumbai Harmony’, a group of music enthusiasts who played tunes using the mouth organ.The organisers were ready for every eventuality. An ambulance was on standby during the event. Dr  , head of marketing and business development of Hinduja Healthcare Surgical, Khar, said, “We are always ready for emergencies but there haven’t been any serious injuries, save the occasional scraped knee.”
 
