CHANDIGARH: As per ‘My Hospital’ report, an initiative of the Union health ministry for patient feedback system for most public hospitals in the country, the level of patients’ satisfaction is 82% at the  , while dissatisfaction is mainly due to doctors’ behaviour. The said report is for the month of January when 1,80,962 patients had visited the premier institute in all 31 departmental OPDs.

 Maximum footfall was in the medicine and eye departments where the level of satisfaction was the highest. As many as 12% of the total visitors at the institute were from the eye department and 13% were from the internal medicine department.
 
  
  
 
 The level of satisfaction in eye department was 85% and in medicine department it was 77%. However, lowest level of satisfaction was in obstetrics (for pregnant women) at 78% of the total 3,415 patients, who visited the department.
 
 Besides staff behaviour, cleanliness, cost of treatment and quality treatment were other reasons for dissatisfaction. “We need to improve on any deficiency. Due to huge rush in the hospital, patients and the doctors have lost their level of patience. We as doctors need to build trust and communicate properly with the public,” said   director Dr  .
 
 Last years’ feedback also was almost similar where the level of satisfaction was 80%. The main reason for dissatisfaction was staff behaviour wherein 48% said that the doctors did not behave properly with them. The latest report shows an improvement by 6% in the behaviour of the doctors towards patients. “We regularly conduct orientation classes for the resident doctors. In addition to this, from next session onwards, we will start special communication classes in which we will teach the new resident doctors how to effectively approach patients,” said the director.
 
 The total respondents for dissatisfaction with cleanliness were 81% and 35% of them were not satisfied with the cleanliness in the toilets in the hospital. There were only 4 respondents dissatisfied regarding quality of treatment. Renal transplant surgery, nuclear medicine and paediatric orthopaedics were the least visited departments.
 
