CHANDIGARH: In a major relief to residents of the city, Chandigarh administration is going to extend six months’ period to install solar panels in the houses of 1 kanal and above. Senior officers of Chandigarh administration, on the request of the residents, discussed the matter last week and finally decided to give this one-time relief to the resident. According to records of Chandigarh administration, till date around 1,300 residents have come forward to install the solar panels on their rooftops, as per the notification issued two years back.

 Significantly, the Chandigarh administration on May 18, 2016 issued the notification through which, it made it mandatory to install the   on the rooftops of the houses, having an area of 1 Kanal and above by including this segment in the building bylaws. Since in new houses, this condition to install the solar panel is already existing, the old houses of such areas were given the time of two years, which ended on May 18. Thus now, those did not comply with the orders are liable to get the building bylaws notices from the UT’s estate office.
 
 However, recently, the residents of the city requested the senior officers of the Chandigarh administration and also written to them, requesting to extend the period for few more days.
 
 “After receiving the request, senior officers held a meeting and it was decided there that since the focus on the solar panels is a priority and most of the people are not much aware of the same, the deadline to install the panels should be extended. Moreover, the target is to involve public in this initiative rather then penalise them. An official order in this regard will be issued in the coming week,” said a senior official.
 
 The central government has been providing 30% subsidy to the residents for installing the solar panel and it is a good opportunity for the residents. “We are hopeful that the residents will come in good number now to avail the facility to install the solar panels in their houses,” he added.
 
 
