CHANDIGARH: The   and Haryana high court wants cops in both states to wear body cameras while investigating crime scenes and while patrolling. The court believes that this would make the justice delivery system, including the process of arresting accused, fairer. 

 The court has asked Punjab to submit a report after contacting the police chief of Kerala as the southern state has already introduced the cameras for its cops. Haryana, on the other hand, has been told to submit the report of a committee it has already constituted under the Panchkula police commissioner to introduce the cameras for patrolling parties.
 
 The single judge bench of Justice Amol Rattan Singh passed these orders while hearing an ongoing case related to illegal detention. He was of the view that body cameras, which are easily available, would ensure that innocent persons are not implicated in false cases.
 
 "These have become necessary, especially where extremely stringent punishments are stipulated for crimes, especially under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act (NDPS). 
 
 
 
 
 The court observed,"Conversely, where criminals try and take advantage of the benefit of doubt, recording of actual apprehensions and recovery of contraband/other offensive material/weapons, would to a large extent get authenticated by recording in such cameras, obviously always giving a margin for manipulation either ways." The cameras are already being used in Delhi, Uttarakhand, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Karnataka and Chandigarh to deal with traffic violators. Kerala equipped its police force with the 'third eye' earlier this year. 
 
 The case would now be heard on May 29. On the previous hearing, the bench had ordered both Punjab and Haryana to install CCTV cameras at entry and exit points of all police stations. While Haryana has already installed the cameras at 305 police stations, Punjab is in the process of installing them at around 400 police stations. The court had insisted on CCTV cameras to check instances of illegal detention.
 
 
