NEW DELHI: The Delhi government’s flagship scheme proposing free surgeries and high-end tests at private hospitals in case of delay at government facilities has hit a roadblock. The   has asked the AAP government to introduce an   criterion for this. 

 Health minister Satyendar Jain said the suggestion was impractical to implement and would lead to the exclusion of the middle-class who may not be poor by definition but are needy. “Neither the chief minister nor I was consulted by the LG on the issue. We, therefore, plan to re-send the proposal for his consideration,” Jain said on Tuesday. 
 
 Within hours, LG Anil Baijal’s office issued a detailed statement in which it said that the criterion was suggested on the recommendations of the planning and finance departments of the government.
 
 “No Government can have unlimited resources. Therefore, it is important that the resources of the government are used first to help the poor and needy. The affluent sections of the society should not crowd out the deserving poor. It is really strange to note that the elected government is of the view that the resources of the state should be used to provide financial assistance to the rich people staying in posh colonies,” the LG office stated.
 
 It added that the LG never advised to exclude the middle-class from the scheme, and the government was free to choose an appropriate income level that does not exclude the middle-class and the poor from the scheme.
 
 The LG office also said that if the elected government had a different view, it could have engaged in the consultative exercise as prescribed by rules and the matter would have been reconsidered. “However, it is unfortunate that again attempt is being made to settle the issue through the media,” it said. 
 
 The scheme was passed by the state cabinet on December 12. The health minister said over 11,000 people have already benefited from the scheme. “For new tenders and furtherance of the scheme, we had sent the proposal to the LG for approval but he has raised objections,” Jain added.
 
 The government had proposed that if the date for a surgery is not given by a government hospital to a patient within a month, then s/he could get it done from any of the empanelled private hospitals. A similar scheme was proposed for getting MRI and CT scans done at private facilities too. 
 
 Jain said that the introduction of an income criterion would make implementation of this scheme extremely cumbersome as verification of patients' incomes would increase paperwork. And the introduction of an income certificate would promote corruption, Jain said. Besides, checking the income certificate of each patient before referring him/her to a private hospital would require the creation of many new posts, he said.
 
 He also said that just like in the case of the ‘doorstep delivery of services’ scheme, the LG's objections on the health scheme are also based on lack of knowledge of ground realities. 
 
 Jain further alleged that the LG wants income criteria to be introduced in mohalla clinics and polyclincs also for all tests, which is impractical.
 
 
