HYDERABAD: A unanimous resolution was passed at the 17th TRS plenary on Friday granting party supremo and chief minister   all powers to take forward the proposed Federal Front.

 Party general secretary Bandi Ramesh read out the resolution. “The party plenary proposed that the party should play an active role in bringing in qualitative change in politics in the country. For this, the party is giving powers to president   to evolve strategies from time to time, bring awareness among the people and hold talks and form a front,” the resolution said. It was then passed unanimously.
 
  
  
 Earlier, TRS secretary general   said there was a need for an alternative front in the country comprising non-BJP and non-Congress parties. He said successive governments at the Centre has been acting unilaterally against the federal spirit and that the Centre was encroaching upon the state government’s powers on various issues. “Our country is an Union of States, but unfortunately successive governments at the Centre changed it to  . The situation should be changed,” he said. Keshava Rao said KCR, who achieved   by displaying guts, confidence and commitment, will also bring about a change in politics in the country.
 
  MP B Vinod Kumar said the TRS government has set an example for the entire country and to the world in many sectors by undertaking several welfare and irrigation schemes as well as other developmental activities. Many government officers and ministers, including from Congress-ruled states, have been praising the TRS schemes, he said.
 
 Apart from the resolution empowering KCR to bring about forming a Federal Front, the party adopted five resolutions including on welfare state, minority welfare, agriculture sector and input subsidy, infrastructure development and administrative reforms.
 
 The party resolution on welfare schemes being implemented by the state government was moved by MLA Rasamai Balakishan and seconded by Gattu Ramachander Rao. The resolution said the state government has been implementing nearly 40 welfare schemes, spending about ₹40,000 crore a year. “Pensions to the aged, widows, people suffering from filariasis, AIDS patients; schemes such as Kalyana Lakshmi, KCR Kits, She teams; and other welfare schemes for employees, Brahmins, lawyers, SCs, STs and BCs are being implemented," the resolution said.
 
 On minority welfare, MLA  , who moved the resolution, said the Telangana government has been taking up various schemes for the upliftment of minorities. “Funds for minority welfare were enhanced to Rs 2,000 crore in this budget from Rs 1,250 crore previous year," he said, and added that the state assembly passed a resolution last year for enhancement of reservations to Muslims to 12% from the existing 4%. Another leader Imtiaz Ahmed said the TRS government introduced minority overseas education scheme and residential schools for minorities and set up Waqf Board, Islamic Convention Centre, Minority commission.
 
 The resolution on the agriculture sector said several measures were taken up for the benefit of farmers. MLA Rajender Reddy said apart from waiving off Rs 17,000 crore agriculture loans belonging to 36 lakh farmers, government has been providing 24 hours power supply to farmers. He said the government would start disbursing Rs 8,000 per acre per year as input subsidy to all farmers from this kharif season.
 
 Interestingly, despite TRS government giving it top priority, there was no separate resolution on irrigation. The state had in the last financial year earmarked Rs 25,000 crore and this year about Rs 37,000 crore under plan and non-plan for irrigation. The prestigious Kaleshwaram project did however receive a mention in agriculture sector resolution.
 
