JAIPUR: Manoj Agrawal, has been jogging around the   for 12 years. Until recently, he was keeping his feet on the levelled track surface. 

 However, since the   ( ) started the restoration work of 4-km, the condition of the track has deteriorated more in absence of official supervision. 
 
 Nearly after a gap of five years, the JDA started the refurbishment of walking track at the city's Central Park, which is a paradise for morning and evening walkers. The 4-kilometre walkway was last repaired in 2013.
 
 The joggers at Central Park are disappointed with the work carried out by the contractor. Hundreds of joggers on Sunday also participated in the signature campaign , where they expressed about the “Poor Quality Track”.
 
 Though, the JDA claims only 50 percent work is completed and track will be as per the standards after refurbishment work is completed, joggers alleged, the contractor is inexperienced and risk of injuries will increase in future. 
 
 “The walkway would should rebuilt as per the guidelines of   (SAI). The slopes given on the track are uneven and this would lead to injuries for joggers. If joggers continue to run on uneven slope it could damage knee cartilage. The civic body is spending public money to develop the infrastructure, it should take up the repair work seriously,” said Nakul Sharma, a regular jogger at park. 
 
 The joggers further alleged that JDA is also utilising inappropriate soil, which has increased the hardness of the track surface. However,  , a former Indian middle distance runner, who is providing his expertise to JDA without any cost refuted the allegations. Saini said, “Nearly thirty thousand joggers come to central park daily. Three types of sand are used for the renovation work. We are purposely making the surface bit hard to provide it a strength. If this is not done, the track would crack soon and joggers will have to combat dust.”
 
 According to officials, the width of the track is three metres at majority of the places. There are a few narrow patches, for example along the  , where joggers face space problem. The JDA recently announced that the 4-km track would have uniform width across the stretch.
 
 Official sources said, “There is a possibility to widen the track only after taking land from the golf course. However, the JDA is not willing to take land from the influential people,”
 
 
  
  
 
