NAGPUR: Hobbyist   and his family who have been collecting antiques since more than 90 years are now planning to open a well-organised and captivating museum in the city soon.

 Currently, Satpute runs a small private museum in his residence at Kala Vaibhav, Plot no. 5, Giripeth where objects dating back to 150 years are displayed for the public. The items include hanging lamps, jewellery boxes, brass objects, tables, bottle openers from the British era, shells, Arabian water boiler etc. Visitors get information about each object too.
 
 Satpute’s mother, Shakuntala, who is currently 94, is a gold medallist from JJ School of Arts, Mumbai, and has had a deep urge to collect various items since her younger days. Her paintings too are put on display at the museum. 
 
 One of Satpute’s sister,  , too is into collection of Ganesh idols and foreign perfume bottles while the second sister, Pornima Kale, collects hand embroidery. He himself has a collection of about 9,500 records of old songs.
 
 “Everyone is a collector of varied things and art runs in our blood,”   told TOI. 
 
 According to him, Nagpurians are interested in connecting with the past through museums. “There are ten museums in Nagpur and no one knows about any of them. People are into history and gaining knowledge about the older times but how will they get attracted towards it if we don’t offer them anything of quality to see. Additionally, items at our museums aren’t interesting enough like those from cities like Rajasthan,” said Satpute.
 
 Satpute also expressed the importance of hobbies which are a great way to be productive after retirement. “It is better to have a fad to have collectibles rather than just watching TV. Also, children can benefit from such habits aiding them to keep a creative attitude in future,” he said.
 
 Other than the antique collection, Satpute also conducts the popular ‘Shiv Vaibhav Killa contest’ during Diwali which has been pioneered in the city since 30 years in addition to awareness programmes though lectures and visits.
 
 
