 The trailer is out and the buzz surrounding upcoming film   has gained momentum. Quite naturally so, considering Rajaratha is a film narrated by the title character — a bus called Rajaratha — for which it is none other than  , who has graciously given life to with his voice. Directed by  , the film stars his brother  , Avantika Shetty, Tamil star Arya and P Ravishankar in prominent roles. Incidentally, the bilingual has Telugu actor Rana Daggubati adding voice to the protagonist — the bus — in its Telugu version.
  “Cutting a trailer for Rajaratha has been the most difficult task for me, as I had to put out the first glimpse of this film without giving away too much of the plot. In fact, I had cut two trailers for the film, of which the format of the one that is out seemed more crisp and to the point. I, actually, did not expect the overwhelming response that this trailer has got so far, what with it getting whistles even at the trailer launch from the audience — here — the media in our city,” says an elated Anup.
  Rajaratha marks Anup’s second film and naturally, there is a lot to expect after the buzz he created with his first film RangiTaranga. It is, therefore, no surprise that  , of one among the more prominent production house — KRG Studios, has stepped in to distribute the same. “We have connected with Rajaratha because of the relationship I share with the makers. Anup and I have been wanting to work together for a long time. Even after he began work on Rajaratha with his able producers Ajay Reddy, Sathish Sastry, Vishu Dakappagari and Anju Vallabh, I was keen on being part of this film in some way. Moreover, when you see a guy who has given up his life in the US, with green card et al, to return here to make films, you know just how serious he is about his craft. The film is all set and is currently with the censor board. We hope to be able to hit the screens by Republic Day and from what we have seen with the trailer, this one is surely going to be one fun ride,” says Karthik.
