NEW DELHI: Acting on the direction of the  , the   formed a   (STF) to remove   from   and roads. However, there are no clear parameters on how the places to be cleared are selected, as TOI’s visit to six suffering roads showed. 

 Udai Pratap Singh, vice chairman of DDA, who heads the STF, told TOI, “We have listed the stretches where we feel encroachment is a big problem. We have directed the civic agencies to carry out action in these places.” He, however, declined to share the list with TOI. A municipal   official confirmed, “We don’t have the resources to keep track of encroachment across Delhi, so we go to wherever the STF says we should.”
 
  
 The Nehru Place to   stretch, for instance, should have been a priority for the anti-encroachment drive. It is symptomatic of the illegalities that plague Delhi’s residential and commercial areas. Space outside shops being used as illegal parking lots, guard cabins on public roads, tyres piled up on pavement, all not only obstructing the progress of pedestrians but also causing traffic congestion. Sanjeev Kumar at Bluebells School lamely argued, “There is no place demarcated for parking, so parents are forced to idle on the road during school hours.”
 
 There was encroachment removal action on Wednesday at   in  . But TOI found the squatters were back within 24 hours. So entire pavements had disappeared under rows of clothes counters under tarpaulin sheets, and hawkers and illegally parked vehicles make it well near impossible to walk past some points. Rakesh Gupta, a trader, said that the clearance drives do not deter the stubborn squatters, but traders themselves have a lot to answer for. Shop counters extended to the footpaths and goods illegally stored on the road contributed as much to the mess as the hawkers.
 
 The daily situation there is as bad as in Chirag Dilli, where the main road is perennially choked. It is impossible to imagine that this locality was once an open fort with expansive grounds surrounded by a water body. This decrepit urban village is a visible reminder of how encroachments can reduce a residential area to a claustrophobic space. The illegally occupied stretch near the nallah was cleared on Wednesday evening, but a mechanic and a nomadic community have reclaimed spot.
 
 For five days since the anti-encroachment campaign began, congested Daryaganj in north Delhi has evaded attention. It should have been in the STF’s targets. The pavements there are being used as kitchen by food sellers or by showrooms to store their goods. 
 
 In east Delhi, Vikas Marg has been emblematic of civic mismanagement. The road has been cleared of encroachments a number of times, with little permanent effect. TOI saw service roads taken over by vehicles and illegal hawkers and pavements encroached upon by shops. In another market at Krishna Nagar, there was similar chaos, the public spaces having ceded supremacy to encroaching shops.
 
 BS Vohra, president, East Delhi Joint Front of RWAs, pointed out that the ground reality contrasted with the apex court’s wishes. “There is no space for people on pavements and the service lanes in every locality in east Delhi are occupied by vendors. But the east corporation has failed to remove such encroachments. In any case, re-encroachments occur almost immediately after clearance because there is no monitoring,” Vohra said. 
 
 Corporation officials plead that the paltry penalties required to retrieve seized items are to blame for the return of encroachers. “A cart owner, for example, has to pay a mere Rs 500 to get his impounded cart released. Revising the penalties requires amendments to Delhi Municipal Corporation Act, but there is no political will to usher in a stricter regime,” the official admitted.
 
 
