NEW DELHI: It took   1,577 days and three police commissioners to wind up the most extensive and expensive probe ever carried out by the force. From roping in the Federal Bureau of Investigation of the United States to contacting Research in Motion/Blackberry company and conducting psychological autopsy, the case recorded many firsts.

 
 When asked about the challenges, an investigator recalled coordinating the single-day raids at the house of Abhinav Kumar, IPS officer and  's personal secretary, and eight others, including those of family's friends Sanjay Dewan, S K Sharma, Vikas Ahlawat and Sunil Takru. The raids yielded a key piece of evidence: a few mails in a hard disk that helped the cops establish that   was feeling cheated and harassed. A top police officer confirmed that in one sent from Dubai, she had written, "I don't want to live."
 
  
  
 However, it was the psychological autopsy, or forensic autopsy, that helped the cops arrive at the conclusion that it was a "combined effect" of Tharoor's actions, Pushkar's mental state and consumption of medications that led to her death. On January 19 this year, TOI first reported that police had conducted such a test on Tharoor and a few other people, including his help, Narain Singh. In this relatively new technique - tried on suspects by FBI and CBI in the past - the experts helped cops understand the events that preceded Pushkar's death.
 
 The technique also helped the investigating team in inferring that Pushkar had "suicidal ideation and self harm conduct" due to the harassment by Tharoor. "The investigators were of the view that Pushkar was deeply saddened by the flirtatious behaviour and conversations that Tharoor had with other women including   and another woman named Katie," claimed a police officer, who added that this is mentioned in the chargesheet.
 
 In another first, Delhi Police sent a Letter Rogatory to Canada's department of justice in 2016 for help in retrieving the deleted chats from the Blackberry phones of Pushkar and Tharoor.
 
 The chargesheet explains the injuries on Pushkar's bodies as having resulted from an assault by Tharoor the night before she died. The injection mark, the chargesheet explains, were for the blood samples she had given before coming to Delhi and a doctor had confirmed this in his statement to the cops.
 
 The FBI took nine months to conduct viscera tests after   said it was unable to carry them out because Delhi Police could not provide samples in amounts required as per international standards. The American agency could not specify the poison that apparently killed Pushkar, but ruled out the presence of unnatural levels of radioactive materials in her body
 
 Delhi Police also collected all CCTV footage available at   and adjoining areas. These were used to establish that nobody suspicious had entered the room where Pushkar died. The movement of each person who visited the hotel, as identified in CCTV footage and through mobile surveillance, was individually verified. 
 
