Bhopal: On a cold January 1 morning engulfed in thick fog, Ramnarayan Sahu along with his wife and a daughter waited at Tikamgarh bus stand to catch a bus to Jhansi from where they would board a train to Delhi in search of job. In Khajuraho, about 140 kms from Tikamgarh, a large number of labourers with their belongings over their head jostled to get into the general compartment of Delhi-bound Sampark Kranti Express. 

 Ramraja Sor, Pappu and Virendra rushed to the compartment to secure some space in the bogie stuffed with migrating labourers. Lucky to get a window seat, Ramraja said he was heading to Delhi for job. He said he belongs to   village of   development block in Chattarpur district where his family has to struggle even for drinking water. “Leave alone water for irrigation of our small piece of land, we are struggling for even drinking water. Majority of the people have already migrated from my village with a population of 2000.”
 
 Station master of Khajuraho railway station   said on an average 1000 tickets are sold at the counter for Delhi daily. “Majority of them are fetched by the labourers”, he added.
 
 With suicides by farmers becoming a routine affair in Tikamgarh because of joblessness during drought, a large number of villagers from the Bundelkhand region are migrating to bigger cities to earn their daily bread. With almost 40% deficit in rainfall in Sagar division, rabi sowing in the five districts has been just 30% to 40% this year.
 
 The marginal farmers and farm labourers need job to sustain themselves. Since there are hardly any employment opportunity in the region, the people are forced to move to cities. “To add to their agony, they are not even getting regular payment of MGNREGA wages,” said  , a social worker in Timakgarh. National convener of Jal-Jodo abhiyan Sanjay Singh said, “Successive droughts have broken the back of farmers in Bundelkhand”.
 
 However the chief executive officer (CEO) the district panchayat Bidisha Mukherjee told TOI, “There is no dearth of jobs in the district as 18293 works are underway at the moment. Moreover, Rs 98 crore was paid to the labourers in this financial year.” District collector of Chattarpur Ramesh Bhandari also said that there is no scarcity of jobs under MGNREGA, but still the villagers are migrating. “This is not migration, but a habit to move out,” he said.
 
 The state government has declared all the districts of Bundelkhand, except Panna, as drought-hit. Majority of the marginal farmers are under debt and are looking for jobs.
 
 
