BHOPAL: Now, students in   must answer roll calls by saying ' '. The state government on Tuesday issued orders making the new norm mandatory for all state-run schools from the new academic session. 

  At a time when schools in state were closed for summer break, state government on Tuesday suddenly issued an order directing all schools to switch to Jai Hind as roll call answer. 
 
 The order (dated May 15, 2018) signed by deputy secretary school education Pramod Singh reads, "It has now been made compulsory for all 1.22 lakh government schools in state to answer attendance roll calls by saying Jai Hind instead of yes sir/ma'am. This is the decision taken by state government to instil patriotism among students."
 
 
 
 
 The order does not mention about its implementation in private schools. Earlier, the school education minister Vijay Shah maintained that an advisory will be issued to all private schools in this regard.
 
 Official sources said that the school education department got the permission from chief minister on Monday following which the order was made to be passed on Tuesday.
 
 The school education department in its proposal to chief minister had stated that present practice of “Yes Sir, yes Madam” does not foster patriotism, therefore it must be replaced by ‘Jai Hind’.
 
 In September, Shah had announced that students of government schools in Satna district will answer their roll call with Jai Hind from October 1 on an experimental basis. Satna district became the first district where this practice was introduced from October 1 last year.
 
 Depending on its success, he had announced, the patriotic slogan will be introduced in all schools, subject to permission by the chief minister. Shah also had said that non-compliance would invite action including suspension and cancellation of schools’ recognition.
 
 The Shivraj Singh Chouhan led BJP government has already instructed schools to hoist the Tricolour and sing the national anthem daily in schools. 
 
 
 
