KOZHIKODE: With growing number of foreign firms and employers, mainly those in the  , insisting on degrees under 'regular' mode of study for employees and job-seekers, the   has decided to provide certificates mentioning mode of study as 'regular full-time' even to private and distance education candidates.

 The decision however has been questioned by many academics who say it is illegal and violates the varsity Act and statutes since the   has no control over parallel colleges where most of such students study. The move comes despite the   asking varsities in 2016 to specify the mode of delivery of the courses in degree certificates and mark lists.
 
 As per a varsity order, a revised 'mode of study' certificate will be issued to persons who have studied in parallel colleges or its   (SDE). The applicant should produce an affidavit countersigned by the Indian consulate or embassy in the country of their residence that the person has undergone regular full-time study.
 
 Varsity authorities say that move is in the backdrop of increasing number of such requests from non- resident Keralites and enquiries from the firms employing them.
 
 "Over 75% of our private students have attended full-time classes in parallel colleges though such institutions are not affiliated or monitored by the varsity. The varsity is issuing the certificates, based on the affidavit. It won't take responsibility for the claims made by job applicants about attending a regular full-time study," said vice-chancellor K Mohammed Basheer.
 
 He said that many students were forced to enrol in parallel colleges or under distance education because of shortage of seats in regular colleges, he added.
 
 Interestingly, the varsity is not mentioning in the certificate that the applicant has studied in a parallel college but states that "as per the affidavit, the applicant has undergone full-time study at a college".
 
 K P Muraleedharan, chairman of the board of studies of management studies, said the order is illegal. "How can the varsity just hand out a certificate on the basis of an affidavit," he asked.
 
 
