CHANDIGARH: The increase in the   fee will come up for a detailed discussion when the municipal corporation sits for its monthly house meeting on Monday. Already, political representatives have termed the hike unjustified and called for a rollback.

 Whatever decision the general house takes on Monday, it will have to keep the aftermath in mind. Though, sources in the   claim that the general house is likely to revoke the hike, they are not clear on what methodology it will adopt for this and if it will strike a new deal with the company hired to manage the lots. “Since the company has shown its willingness to sign a new MoU (memorandum of understanding), the general house will explore this possibility to rid the public of this unjustified hike,” one of those sources said.
 
 While taking any decision, the general house will also have to keep all the legal aspects in mind, since the matter can go to court. The MC will have to plan for several scenarios that might develop in the court. An 80-page report of the finance and contract committee (F&CC) will be tabled before the house members to help them with the decision. “The eight-member committee has reported anomalies in the paid-parking system and termed the hike unjustified. It has explained each point. The anomalies for each paid-parking lot are pointed out along with separate details,” a source said.
 
 Since a technical committee has given the green light to increasing the parking rates, by finding “80% things implemented on the ground”, the general house is likely to call for that particular report, too, after going through the F&CC report. This is to compare the two and see on what ground the technical committee found the things in order at the lots. Parking-lot management company   had on Saturday accused the MC of not doing enough to stop illegal parking in the city. It had also hinted that it was ready for a fresh MoU, in case the house decided to revise the rates.
 
 The company accused the civic body of handing over parking lots before laying proper infrastructure, re-carpeting roads, and installing electricity connection. “They (the municipal authorities) should have delivered us these prerequisites on time,” a company representative said. The company representatives didn’t have clear answers to questions about the anomalies in the paid parking system that commuters have been reporting. It agreed that there were problems indeed but claimed it had implemented a better system of paid parking than the one that ran earlier.
 
 Confronted about haphazard parking and choked lots in almost all key commercial markets of the city, Arya Toll Infra director Sunil   said: “There are some problems in the system and we are committed to solving those. It is for this purpose that we are coming up with a flying squad, a feedback system, and display boards inside the lots. Since there were lapses to being with on the part of the MC, the parking rates were increased in December last year instead of last October.”
 
 Badlani refused to make any comment on his possible reaction if the general house of the municipal corporation rejects the enhanced parking fee in its meeting on Monday. He said he hoped that the MC will keep all issues in mind, mainly that the civic body itself had approved the new parking charges. When the MC general house meets on Monday, the functioning of the paid parking lots and the increase in the parking charges will be crucial issues to be discussed.
 
 The municipal commissioner has constituted a five-member review committee that includes the mayor, and asked the finance and contract committee (F&CC) to file an inspection report on the state of paid-parking lots. Both teams have visited the lots and complied their reports that will be tabled before the house on Monday.
 
 Box:
 
 Cong protest today
 
 The Chandigarh unit of the   will hold a protest outside the municipal corporation office on Monday against the new parking fee. The decision came in the party’s core-committee meeting on Sunday. Former local MP (member of Parliament)   and other senior Congress leaders will take part in the protest
 
 
