CHANDIGARH: The Delhi high court on Monday issued notice to the Union government, the Central Vigilance Commission (CVC) and the   (AIIMS) on a plea against Centre’s decision to drop departmental proceedings against former deputy director (administration), AIIMS,  . The proceedings were started in relation to alleged multi-crore scam exposed by whistleblower Indian Forest Service (IFS) officer Sanjiv Chaturvedi.

 The 1982-batch IAS officer Chawdhary had served as deputy director (administration) AIIMS in 2010-12 and presently serving as chief secretary, Himachal Pradesh.
 
 A division bench headed by acting chief justice of Delhi HC has issued the notice after taking cognizance of an application filed by the   for Public Interest Litigation (CPIL) in the ongoing PIL. In this case, the main PIL has been seeking directions to probe into major corruption cases unearthed in AIIMS, New Delhi, by the vigilance wing of the institute from 2012-2014, involving politically connected senior bureaucrats and faculty members.
 
 In its fresh application, the CPIL has submitted that it has come to know that disciplinary proceedings against Chawdhary, who is stated to be close to Union health minister J P Nadda, have been closed down without taking approval from the competent authority.
 
 The HC was informed that Chawdhary had earlier worked with Nadda as health secretary in   in year 2002-03 when the BJP leader was health minister in the state.
 
 HC was informed that then Union health minister Gulam Nabi Azad had approved departmental proceedings against Chawdhary in May 2014 on the charges of financial irregularities in purchase of livery items of more than Rs 1 crore. However, the case has been closed by Nadda by a mere ‘caution’.
 
 “This is brazen violation of rule position which provides that for IAS officers working on central deputation, only Prime Minister as minister-in-charge of DoP&T is competent disciplinary authority,” argued the petitioner society.
 
 It has also been alleged that another departmental chargesheet was approved against Chawdhary in August 2014 by the then Union health minister Dr   on charges of financial irregularities in projects of around Rs 6,000 crore, irregular appointments and similar other charges.
 
 “The draft chargesheet approved by Dr Harsh Vardhan had list of 33 documents and 12 witnesses. However, the CVC assuming the statements of Chawdhary as gospel truth and without examining any of the witnesses recommended the closure of the said case on the recommendation of minister of state (MoS) in health ministry.
 
 As per the statutory rules and   information provided by DoP&T, Prime Minister is competent disciplinary authority for IAS officers working on central deputation. The most absurd part was that CVC and Union health ministry allowed closure of the said case by a minister of state, thus over ruling the approval of then minister Dr Harsh Vardhan,” petitioner has argued.
 
 Directions have been sought to summon records of closure of these cases, without approval of competent disciplinary authority and to direct Union government for immediately referring these cases to competent disciplinary authority for passing well-reasoned order. The case would now come up for hearing on July 31.
 
 
