RAJKOT: In a first case of its kind, a   of a   has been directed to undergo   to prove that she is not the mother of a third child.

 The district development officer last week directed Jyoti Rathod, elected sarpanch of Tori village of Amreli’s Kukavav taluka on December 29 last year, to undergo the test after she challenged her suspension order passed by the taluka development officer (TDO) of Kukavav NP Malaviya.
 
 Malaviya suspended Jyoti following a complaint lodged by Bala Rathod who alleged that Jyoti was the mother of a six-year-old girl, who is her third child. In his complaint, it is alleged that the sarpanch showed the girl’s mother’s name as Neeta and father’s name as Bharat. According to Panchayati Raj Act, a sarpanch is disqualified if he/she has more than two children.
 
 Talking to TOI, complainant Balabhai Rathod said, “Neeta is Jyoti’s second name and father’s name shown as Bharatbhai is also fictitious. The documents are forged to hide identity of the third child. I am sure if the DNA test is conducted genuinely, it will prove that the girl is Jyoti’s daughter.”
 
 TDO NP Malaviya said, “After verification of document, I found that Jyotiben has three children following which I disqualified her on September 6, 2017. She challenged this order before the DDO.”
 
 A top official in DDO’s office said, “The DDO was of the view after the hearing that an elected person can’t be disqualified without reasonable doubt and documents can be forged but scientific result can’t be tempered. Therefore he ordered her to undergo DNA test.”
 
 In most cases, DNA test conducted to ascertain the paternity but this the first case where it will be conducted to verify maternity.
 
 Jyoti’s husband Bhala Rathod called this a politically-motivated accusation. “Why nobody raised the objection when my wife filed the candidature? The opponents only want to mentally harass us because my wife is doing developmental work in the village. The girl in the question is the daughter of my real brother and I can prove this. But upper caste people in the village can’t see a Dalit lady ruling.”
 
 He added, “We are uneducated and don’t know anything about DNA Test. When DDO asked my wife, she assured full cooperation in the inquiry but she will undergo the tests only after consulting our lawyer and doctor.” 
 
 
