MUMBAI: The BMC’s contractual sanitation workers will finally get their dues. Following TOI’s report that despite deductions being made in their meager salaries, the benefits were not reaching them,   (EPFO) officials have started identifying the people named in the report and will start the process of sanctioning what is owed to them.

 
 On February 1, TOI reported on the struggles of the families of nearly 120 conservancy workers who have died in the past four years, and who are yet to get their employment dues and other benefits. Senior EPFO officials said that if it is found contractors have not made their contributions to the PF accounts of workers, criminal cases will be filed and their books of accounts audited.
 
  
  
 
 “We have several regional offices in the city and the relevant branches, based on where these workers were placed, have been alerted. Since most of these workers have died, we have asked our officers to start reaching out to their families and ensure benefits reach them,” said a senior official.
 
 Officials said that since 2011,   are covered under their laws. According to norms, besides the PF amount, the kin of the deceased can get insurance up to Rs 6 lakh, depending on the PF balance in their accounts. Also, the surviving spouse, and children under 25 years of age are eligible for pension. BMC hires 6,600 sanitation workers on contract to keep the city clean. Contractual employment is against labour norms if the nature of work is perennial.
 
 TOI had also reported how contractors, in connivance with BMC officials, were circumventing labour laws to shortchange these workers.
 
 EPFO officials said the BMC, which is the ‘primary’ employer, should change thi-ngs at its end to ensure workers are given their dues. The BMC, though, continues to remain impervious, putting the onus on contractors. “Ideally, the BMC should release payments to contractors only after ensuring they have deposited the PF amount with us, but that doesn’t always happen,” said the official.
 
 An inquiry against the BMC was under way on pending dues for   of several departments, officials said. The inquiry is being conducted also to push the BMC to ensure its contractual staff are brought under the net to be eligible for benefits.
 
