MUMBAI: A 40-year-old woman, her teenaged daughter and son were grievously injured after a gas   at their Dahisar (E) residence caused an explosion and fire on Tuesday morning. All of them sustained major burn injuries. 

  Ravan and her daughter, Prachi (15), have been admitted to Babasaheb Ambedkar Hospital at Kandivli. Her son, Chirag (13), has been moved to   in  , which has a burns unit. Meenakshi’s husband Sanjay was away at work when the incident took place at their house in Rajpoot chawl in Rawalpada, Dahisar. 
 
 While Meenakshi is a housewife, Sanjay works as a security guard. “The   seems to have leaked over several hours in the night. Some residents said that they could smell the gas early on Tuesday but could not find the source. When residents started inquiring and a youngster knocked at Meenakshi’s door to ask her, she sent him away thinking it was not in her house,” said a police official.
 
 Around 7.45am, when Meenakshi stepped into the kitchen to prepare breakfast and lit the stove, there was an explosion due to the accumulated gas, sparking a fire. As Meenakshi was in the kitchen, she was injured the most—90% burns. “The children were sleeping. Prachi suffered 60% burns while her brother 50%. The explosion has almost demolished their house as the roof has came down and the door has been smashed. A neighbouring house too was impacted. Locals put out the fire and called up Sanjay,” added the official.
 
 A passerby, Subhash Patkar (47), who was walking outside the house too was injured. He was admitted to Ashoka Hospital with 18 to 20% burns. Police said that Patkar, a local, was the first to alert everyone about a suspected gas leak in the morning. He was heading to work when the explosion occurred. 
 
 A relative of Meenakshi told TOI that they wanted to move her and Prachi to Masina Hospital in Byculla, which has a burns unit but they cannot afford treatment there. Doctors at the Babasaheb Ambedkar Hospital said Meenakshi and Prachi are not stable and its not advisable to move them. 
 
 
