CHENNAI: Multitudes of visitors flock to the state-of-the-art British Council library every day, but very few are likely to even glance at the dusty LLA (Local Library Authority) complex which houses the   as they go past.

 Considered a major landmark on arterial  , the building and the library, a portion of which wasdamaged, need urgent revamp. Library authorities said it was due to underground work of   (CMRL) which that say promised to rebuild it, but metro rail officials refuted the claim and insisted they never gave any assurance of repair.
 
 In 2001, CMRL barricaded several portions, including the front of the library, for underground construction. Iron pillars were raised to buttress the portico and the rest of the five-storey complex. The barricades were removed a couple of months ago.
 
 Library officials say vibrations caused during underground work over the years has caused a lot of damage. “They demolished a part in the front during construction. They took a small portion from our premises and we were told a station entry point will come up nearby,” said Elango Chandrasekar, district library officer. The complex, housing the library on the ground floor and a few government departments on other floors, is between   and Thousand Lights metro stations.
 
 Opened as Madras District Central Library in 1965 by Madras governor Jayachamaraja Wadiyar Bahadur, it was renamed after popular Tamil writer   following a government order in 1981. Popular with ardent Tamil readers, it now has nearly 1.5 lakh Tamil books under 26 main categories and about 50,000 English books.
 
 Apart from the recent damage to the building, lack of modern facilities has seen patronage for the library drop. Visitors are assailed by a stench as they move across rusty racks stacked with undusted books. “All public libraries including the district library have a good collection,” said historian K R A Narasaiah.
 
 Regular readers also have several complaints. “It feels quite stuffy inside and if you come during peak summer, you’ll be soaked in sweat,” said  , a reader.
 
 Librarian V Thanikachalam said they planned to renovate and modernise the library but are awaiting the completion of metrorail work.
 
 
