GHAZIABAD:   residents demanded strict action against unregulated movement of auto-rickshaws in the area. They rued that scores of auto-rickshaws did not follow any traffic rule and parked their vehicles anywhere on the road to pick or drop passengers. According to the ARTO, there are 12,000 three-seater and around 800 seven-seater auto rickshaws in the entire city.

 The menace is acute in   border area. A case highlighting the various issues of Kaushambi, including traffic, is already being heard at the National Green Tribunal.
 
 Vinay Mittal, president of Kaushambi Apartments RWAs (KARWA), said, “There is an uncontrolled movement of auto-rickshaws in the area as if no rules are applicable to them. A large number of them do not have permits and indulge in illegal operations. Another major issue is of overloading. A vehicle which is meant to ferry either three or seven passengers is overloaded with double the capacity. Auto rickshaws also contribute to environmental pollution as a large number of them use diesel. According to norms, only CNG is allowed. We have sought a ban on such vehicles.”
 
 Talking about the ongoing NGT case, Mittal informed that the final hearing in the case is expected to take place on April 17. “Auto-rickshaw menace is one of the issues in the case. Last month a meeting of RWA members, traffic and civic authorities was held to discuss the issues raised in the NGT. It was decided that traffic police, transport department and   municipal corporation would initiate strict action against erring vehicles. However, no changes are visible on the ground,” added Mittal.
 
 N Rajamani, a resident of   in Kaushambi, said, “There is no space left for the pedestrians. Be it footpath, residential area or the main, every place is captured by auto rickshaws, buses and cars. Open spaces have been converted into illegal parking. Auto rickshaws should stand at designated places only. Sometimes they capture three lanes on the road.”
 
 When contacted, SP (traffic) SN Singh said, “The area sees high traffic volume throughout the day. There is a metro station, a bus depot and malls, besides several high rise apartments. Every 3-4 minutes hundreds of people use the metro facility. We are trying our best with our limited staff. Traffic cops and home guards are deployed at strategic locations to regulate the traffic.”
 
 ARTO (administration) V P Singh said, “Regular inspections of vehicles are being conducted and those vehicles which do not have permits or not fulfil the norms are seized.”
 
 
