KOLKATA : All with brilliant academic background, four friends from Indian Institute of Engineering Science and Technology were on their way to take an exam to further their career when an accident shattered their lives; while one of them was killed, the three others landed in hospital. TOI spoke to two of them in hospital, struggling to come to terms with the loss of a friend.

 “The cab we were in had just crossed the Maa flyover when I felt a severe jolt and a loud noise. My mind went blank. When I regained composure, I found bystanders and police surrounding us. I realized that we had met with an accident,” said Subhadeep Pradhan, who is in MSc first-year, studying applied physics. The IIEST student is from Krishnanagar.
 
 
  
 The four—Pradhan, Sayantan  , who died of multiple head injuries, Md   and Sudam Panda— had left their engineering institute around 6.30am so that they could report well in time for the Joint Entrance Screening Test (JEST) that would allow them to pursue an integrated Phd course. The examination was slated for 10am at Techno India College of Technology, New Town. “The first thing I noticed after getting into the cab was the driver’s body language. He was being a bit reckless. It seemed he was either inebriated or sleep-deprived,” Pradhan said. Pradhan and   escaped with bruises and scratches, while Panda suffered hip and knee fractures.
 
 On Saturday night, the four friends had decided to hail an app cab and go to the exam centre together. Pradhan was seated in the rear on the extreme left, while Biswas was seated on the extreme right and Musharraf in between. Panda was in the front, beside the driver.
 
 “Taking a break from discussing probable questions, I was just pointing out a highrise to my friends when the driver drove into the median, throwing us off our seats. Next I saw Sayantan bleeding profusely,” said Musharraf, who hailed from Nalhati in Birbhum.
 
 Ignoring their own injuries, the three friends were deeply concerned about Sayantan, whose condition was visibly critical. The police took all the four to   and Hospital. But the friends wanted Sayantan to be shifted to a private hospital with better facilities. So, they claimed, they requested the government hospital doctors to accompany Sayantan in an ambulance during the transit. “But our request fell on deaf ears. I was the only one in the ambulance to take care of him while being transported to the private hospital. Though he was unconscious, I kept calling his name out, hoping it might help. But he was bleeding from his nose, ears and mouth and died in front of me,” said Musharraf, who travelled with Sayantan to Medica Superspecialty Hospital.
 
 Though Pradhan and Musharraf did not suffer much injuries, their trauma of losing a dear friend was indelible. “Both the patients can go home. Their bruises and cuts will go with medication, but their trauma will take time to heal,” said Dr  , the emergency consultant who attended to the two.
 
