NEW DELHI: Two male employees of Dr Hans Nagar, who was attacked by gunmen early on Sunday morning, said they were taken aback by the incident. Having worked with the doctor for two decades, they knew security had become of utmost importance at the farmhouse — Nagar Estate — in southwest Delhi in recent days, but did not expect an open attack. They said that the orthopaedic specialist had taken several steps such as getting security gates erected, having   installed and keeping a crowd of dogs for protection.

 Police said that 44 cameras were indeed found to have been installed at Nagar Estate, but none of them had captured the 1am shootout in which Nagar was shot at and shot back at his assailants. Police have detained 10 people and conducted raids on the city’s outskirts to apprehend two men the doctor claimed to have identified among his attackers.
 
 The 26-acre farmhouse is the first of almost 10 on a road named after Nagar’s father, Brigadier Hem Chand Nagar. Speaking to TOI, one of the employees revealed that repeated threats last year had led to the CCTVs being installed. Nagar lived here with his wife and three unmarried daughters. The employees also talked of the almost paranoid response to the threat — the family apparently brought over 100 dogs, among them bull dogs and pit bulls, for protection.
 
 “The security was so tight and I don’t know what more can be done to ensure nothing like this happens again,” said another estate worker, requesting anonymity. “Either someone known to the family was involved or someone has been following Nagarji closely.” The anxiety created by the incident was palpable when he added, “I owe a lot to the doctor for giving us employment and a place to live, but I am frightened to live here now.”
 
 Nagar was involved in a dispute over property with his brothers and had been facing threats from a private company that allegedly usurped a Gurgaon property belonging to him. A Delhi Police source said that the three brothers had one-third share each in the four properties their mother, Ida Ulrich, left them in Gurgaon, Fatehpur Beri, Noida and near the Indian Institute of Technology. Police said these were ancestral property owned by Hem Chand, who had bequeathed them to his wife. The estate worker who spoke to TOI said that the Nagar brothers shared a cordial relationship until their mother’s death created the property wrangles.
 
 Romil Baaniya, DCP (south), said that police had detained the suspects named by Nagar in his complaint on Sunday. He added that efforts were being made to track Nasir Khan, identified by the orthopaedist as a suspect. The south district Crisis Response Team is scrutinising the profiles of the suspects.
 
 Having checked the perimeter of the farmhouse, police seem to believe that an unwalled plot could have been the weak spot. “There are no CCTV cameras there so we are scanning the footage from areas that lead to that spot,” disclosed a cop. Meanwhile, Nagar’s clinic at IIT Gate has been shut down and the employees instructed not to report for work until further notice.
 
 
