CHANDIGARH: Aspirants who appeared for Joint Entrance Examination on Sunday termed the online computer based test ( ) as lengthy but scoring. 

 The online examination (JEE Main 2018 Paper I), which was taken in two time slots: 9.30am to 12.30pm and 2pm to 5pm, is vital for aspirants who want to enter NITs, IIITs or CFTIs. With 90 questions — 30 questions each from mathematics, physics and chemistry — the pattern of the examination remained untouched. 
 
 “Mathematics section was lengthy and tough. The exam had more questions from organic chemistry, said   an aspirant from Panchkula. 
 
 “I think, I should be able to score above 200,” he added.
 
 “Physics questions were moderate, mathematics part was lengthy and chemistry remained conceptual,” said another aspirant Jalaj beri.
 
 Another candidate   from Chandigarh said, “Questions in physics section had a lot of calculations involved, which took a lot of time. The section was filled with multi-concept oriented questions and hence was too time consuming.”
 
 “Chemistry was scoring. Although the paper was moderate on the difficulty scale, it was also lengthy and time consuming,” he added.
 
 Tricity based Physics Mentor   said-
 
 Meanwhile, a city-based Physics teacher   Singh said that he was getting mixed reviews from the aspirants.
 
 “The aspirants said the chemistry section was conceptual and mathematics portion had application-oriented problems. Some aspirants said that physics section encapsulated strong analytical concepts in a single question,” Kunal said.
 
 “Many students found physics and mathematics lengthy because of calculations,” he added
 
 Chemistry expert   termed chemistry as conceptual. “The section needed strong fundamentals in order to secure name in the merit list .There were many questions from organic,” Anuraag said.
 
 Mathematics teacher   said compared to other sections, many students found mathematics the toughest.
 
 “Questions of conic section were in abundance, which some students also claimed were tough. The online paper of JEE Main 2018 can be termed as above average and at par with JEE offline exam,” Abhay added.
 
 
