KOCHI: The fire and rescue service stations in the district have been receiving false calls, which lead to loss of precious time of officials engaged in rescue operations After receiving a call, the firefighting team rush to the spot immediately. But many a times, this is turning out to be a hoax call and a matter of concern for the fire department in the district.

 The fire and rescue stations in Ernakulam often receive such false calls. They also   from  
 
 While children call and barely talk, the drunkards are abusive in their approach.
 
 The fire stations received six false calls from January 2017 to April 2018. While Koothattukulam fire station received two false calls, Kalloorkkad, Gandhinagar, Perumbavoor and Piravom fire stations received one false call each during the period. Fire department has given a complaint to the police. Since call to 101 is toll free, people often call for fun. “We leave the station as soon as we get the call and do not wait to confirm the call. When we are about to reach the destination, we try to call back on the number, the informer might not attend or he might have switched off the phone, leaving us perplexed. When we inquire about the fire, people tell us no such incident happened there,” said A  , fire station officer in   station.
 
 “People giving us false information don’t realize the damage they cause. Imagine if any other tragedy happens during that time and we arrive late due to the false call,” he said.
 
 “While children calling from the mobile phones of their parents also causes trouble for fire service team. When children call, they hang on the phone without telling anything. Seeing no response from other side for quite some time, we cut calls. While drunkards hurl abuse over phones. It may be during these minutes that people might be waiting to call us with true alert on fire,” said Unnikrishnan.
 
 “When we realize the call is a false one, we complain to police. Children call us without the knowledge of parents. In such cases, we ask parents to be cautious. Parents also are unaware of the importance of avoiding false calls to emergency number, which can be dialled even if there is no balance is available on the phone,” said P Dileepan, divisional officer of fire and rescue department in Ernakulam.
 
