NOIDA: The body of a 29-year-old software   was   face down in a housing society in Noida’s Sector 168, with police suspecting he committed suicide by jumping off the balcony of a 15th-floor flat he shared with two friends.

 Shubham Dawra, who was an engineer with Mentor Graphics India Pvt Ltd, was taken to a private hospital nearby, but doctors declared him dead on arrival. He was from Bhiwani in Haryana.
 
 Although police said the alleged suicide on Wednesday morning could be the fallout of a failed relationship, one of Shubham’s flatmates said the software engineer hadn’t shared anything with him about his strained ties with his girlfriend.
 
 Shubham had been sharing a three-room flat in   Seasons Housing society with his friends Chirag and Shantanu for the past few months. While Shubham worked as a software engineer, the other two were students of a private college in Greater Noida.
 
 Vedpal Singh Pundir, the SHO of Expressway police station, said Shubham was alone in the flat on Wednesday morning. While Chirag had gone for his classes, Shantanu was away at home in Bihar.
 
 “Around 9am, Shubham jumped off the 15th-floor balcony and fell to the ground. The society’s guards found him bleeding. They alerted the residents and informed police. He was rushed to a private hospital, where doctors declared him dead on arrival,” Pundir said.
 
 A police team that had reached the flat after being informed found that the door had a dual lock. Chirag had locked the door from outside while leaving for college, probably because Shubham had been asleep.
 
 “The door was locked from outside when the police team reached the flat where the trio lived. His friend was Chirag was called up and he told the cops that he had locked the door from outside when he left for college,” the SHO said.
 
 Police suspect Shubham had committed suicide after ties with his girlfriend strained. “After speaking to one of his friends, we learnt that the youth was in a relationship with a woman. We are trying to trace the woman and question her regarding the incident. We are investigating the matter from all angles to know the exact reason behind the suicide,” he said.
 
 While Chirag said Shubham did not discuss his personal life, Shantanu said he was not aware if Shubham was involved in any relationship. “I was looking for an accommodation and found Shubham’s number through Google search. The three of us stayed in separate rooms. We used to interact with each other but Shubham never shared anything about any relationship,” Shantanu said. “I am shocked to hear this.”
 
 Shubham’s brother Sumit Dawra on Friday alleged that this could be a case of murder. “The allegation of a strained relationship is not true. We suspect that my brother was murdered,” he said.
 
 The body was handed over to Shubham’s family members after a  . His relatives are yet to fil
 
