PUNE: Private and government infrastructural projects are eating into the greenery in Pune district which has lost 26 sqkm of forest cover in two years.

 The district’s forest cover reduced from 1,734 sqkm in 2015 to 1,708 in 2017, a State of Forest Survey 2017 conducted by the   in Dehradun states. 
 
  
  
 
 Environmentalists and the forest department in Pune said rapid urbanization and utilization of land for projects as the prime reason for the depleting   in the district.
 
 Speaking to TOI, deputy conservator of forests, Pune, Rangnath Naikade said forest land in Pune is being diverted for projects. 
 
 “Forest land in the district is often diverted and used for non-forest purposes. Land in areas like Hinjewadi, Junnar, Bhor and other areas has been reserved for irrigation projects, road development, by MIDC and others,” he said.
 
 When land is utilized for development projects, the government provides compensatory land. “ It may not be in the same district. The forest department in Pune received compensatory land in other districts. Hence, the forest cover in Pune district shows a depletion,” he said. 
 
 Tree activist   said the tree authority set up by   was accountable for the reduced tree cover in the city. 
 
 “The Tree Act, 1975, mandates formation of a tree authority with a separate account which has not happened in 43 years. It does not have its own office. Hence, there is no accountability. Yet, it is providing permissions to cut trees,” he said.
 
 Jain said in 2013, the Bombay high court had ordered Pune Municipal Corporation to conduct a tree census. “Six months were granted to conduct the census. No such headcount was conducted. When they were asked about the tree count, tree authority members said there are about 32 lakh trees. In reality, there may not be more than two to three lakh mature trees,” Jain said.
 
 Certain areas are witnessing heavy development and these are also the areas with the highest tree cover loss. “ Shivajinagar, Taljai, Parvati, Waghjai, Ambegaon Pathar, Mulshi and others lost a lot of tree cover. The hills are being deforested for development without a thought to biodiversity. Permission is granted to cut trees for construction of buildings on the condition that the developer will plant three trees for every tree cut, but there is hardly any space to plant a single tree on the same premises,” he added. Jain said greater transparency and accountability is needed .
 
 
