Madurai: For motorists taking South Veli Street, one of the arterial roads of Madurai, the ride is bumpy as they have to go through a damaged stretch from Thavittusanthai till South Gate.

  According to residents, the road has been that way for nearly six months and the situation has only worsened after Madurai City Corporation started Under Ground Drainage (UGD) works in the stretch.
 
 The four Veli Streets once demarcated Madurai when British, after taking control of the city from 1801, started expanding the city. 
 
 British collector, John Blackburn pulled down Madurai fort in 1837 and the Veli Streets came up when the moats surrounding the fort were filled. British named them in Tamil as ‘Veli Theru’ (outer streets), of then Madurai city.
 
 Though called as streets, they are actually broad roads around old city catering hundreds of vehicles plying in and around the city. At peak hours, at least thousand vehicles pass through those streets in an hour.
 
 While other three Veli Streets are relatively better, South Veli Street is heavily battered and the rain during the months of November and December worsened its condition. 
 
 The street is divided into half at South Gate where vehicular movement is towards Villapuram. The stretch between Thavittusanthai to South Gate is filled with potholes and gives nightmarish experience to motorists especially during peak hours.
 
 A resident, B Meenakshisundaram from Thavittusanthai said that there are four big schools in this stretch and parents picking or dropping their wards mostly use two wheelers. “It is too difficult to navigate through this street during peak hours especially with children on a two wheeler. I have seen many losing balance and falling,” he said. Recently authorities filled the pot holes with debris and soil and it made the situation worse making the stretch dusty, according to residents.
 
 “The stretch remains battered for more than six months and it became unbearable once corporation started digging here and there for UGD works,” said K Senthilkumar from South Veli Street. Right in the middle of the road, there is an unfinished manhole. Instead of completing the work, the corporation has just barricaded it.
 
 Corporation sources said that underground drainage works are still in process. The civic body is going to do patch works for the time being, they said. City engineer, A Mathuram said that they will take stock of the situation and complete the works as soon as possible.
 
 
