MUMBAI: Twelve of the city’s 24 wards recorded a dip in female   — meaning fewer girls were born per 1,000 boys — in 2017, shows   figures. Overall, the city’s sex ratio at birth remained at 936, the same as in 2016, beating both the state and national averages of 878 and 900. 

 Of the 12 wards that recorded a decline, indicative of a bias towards the male child, six were from south and central Mumbai. 
 
  
  
 
 The trend stretched from the affluent areas of Tardeo, Walkeshwar, Malabar Hill and Altamont Road to the more middle class neighbourhoods of Mazgaon, Nagpada, Byculla, all the way till Parel and Dadar. 
 
 The prosperous suburban belts of Goregaon, Borivli, Charkop and Poisar, which are already under the scanner, again registered the worst ratios. 
 
 Areas like Goregaon and Borivli, particularly, have shown the steepest decline. In Goregaon, it fell from 935 in 2016 to 914 last year, and Borivli recorded an alarming 32-point decline from 946 to 914. Three years ago, the ratio for Goregaon stood at 950. Tony suburbs like Bandra (West), Khar (West), Santa Cruz (West) too have recorded a sharp fall from a near-perfect ratio of 997 to 949 in 2017. 
 
 Among the south Mumbai wards, the sex ratio at D, which covers Tardeo to Altamont Road, stood at 919, a worrying fall of 52 points. 
 
 While experts said the sex ratio numbers, derived from birth registrations, have painted a not-so-happy picture, the civic authorities are happy that the cumulative numbers are not declining. “There was a time when the   at birth stood at 913. 
 
 Over the years, we have only gotten better,” said Dr Mangala Gomare, BMC’s deputy executive health officer. She added that drawing inferences from ward-specific birth registrations may not give a complete picture as certain wards see extremely low child births due to the demographic shift. 
 
 C ward, for instance, that includes Bhuleshwar, Pydhonie, Marine Lines, Dhobi Talao, recorded merely 215 births, of which 110 were girls. Ghatkopar, Vidyavihar, on the other hand, registered the maximum number of births at more than 12,000 and also clocked an increase in girls being born. 
 
 According to demographer P Arokiasamy, professor at the   (IIPS), sex ratio at birth of less than 950 is considered lower than normal. “Anything lower than 940 should be a cause for concern. Mumbai has 10 wards with ratios less than 935,” he said. 
 
 Varsha Deshpande of Lek Ladki Abhayan blamed the gender imbalance on a glaring lack of administrative and political will. “The law is increasingly losing its teeth. It’s interesting how convictions and the sex ratio have remained constant. The fact is that those who desperately want a boy are travelling out of Mumbai. Clinics in Thane offer sex selection at Rs 30,000-Rs 50,000,” she said. 
 
 “Mumbai, Navi Mumbai and Thane are teeming with 2,500-odd sonography centres with hardly any surveillance. There aren’t that many toilets,” she said. The state is losing its war with illegal sex selection as the cases are not being dealt with the strictness they deserve, she added.
 
 Arokiasamy added that like sex selection there could be other behavioural processes at play when it comes to having male children. “If the richer class has only one child, the possibility is there that they would want a male child. There is also the stopping rule behaviour. Here, if the woman’s first child is a son, they may use contraception to prevent subsequent pregnancies. That may not be the case if the first born is a daughter. Such factors also push up chances of more male children being born,” he said
 
 
 
