BHUBANESWAR: BJD leaders from Nischintakoili block under   parliamentary segment met chief minister and party president   here on Sunday to seek action against MP Baijayant Panda. They accused   of high-handedness and neglecting them completely.

 The allegations came three days after Panda claimed bureaucratic interference in BJD's affairs. He had said this on Thursday while inaugurating an overhead water tank at Buhalo in Nischintakoili block. The tank was built using money from the MP's local area development fund. The local leaders, who had alleged that they had been kept out of the programme, had staged a silent protest at the block headquarters while the inauguration was on.
 
 In a memorandum submitted to   on Sunday, Sabita  , chairperson of Nischintakoili block, said: "The Kendrapada MP (Panda) did not consult any party worker before finalizing the inauguration programme. He conducted the programme by inviting members from outside the Mahanga constituency."
 
 Briefing reporters at his residence after meeting the local leaders, Naveen said he would inquire into the allegations.
 
 Though Panda could not be contacted, his office rejected the charges. They also clarified that all local leaders had been invited for the inauguration programme. Though Panda has not levelled any more allegations against the way the government or BJD functions, a section of leaders within the party is pressing the chief minister for action against him. However, it seems unlikely that Naveen will act against the four-time MP any time soon. 
 
 "The chief minister has already reacted to Panda's allegations and said he would take appropriate action at the right time. This means he has taken note of whatever is happening. It is also clear that Panda has crossed all limits," said a senior party leader.
 
 Reacting to the issue, party spokesperson Prasanta   said: "Naveen babu, being the party president, has taken action against all those who have violated party discipline. In this case, too, he will take action at the appropriate time."
 
 Days after Baijayant accused an officer at the CM's office of interfering in the ruling party's affair, another ex-MLA of the BJD and opposition leaders on Sunday again slammed the bureaucrat.
 
 "The BJD is not functioning properly. There is some problem somewhere in the party. The CM remains in the dark on many issues," former BJD   from Dhenkanal, Nabin Nanda, told reporters. Regarding the officer in the CMO, Nanda said it is natural for an officer working with the chief minister to give suggestions, but his advice should not be allowed to affect and harm the party. 
 
 Reacting to Nanda's statement, senior BJD leader and state food supplies minister S N Patro said the former MLA was no longer in the party and the CM is capable of taking decisions. BJD spokesperson Sasmit Patra said the ruling party is fully united and there is no problem in the organisation. Senior   leader Sarat Rout said the officer is supposed to confine his role to administrative sphere.
 
 
