CHANDIGARH/PATIALA :   rolled out two digital initiatives on Monday to tackle law and order challenges in the state. Accompanied by senior officers of the force, chief minister Amarinder Singh launched a network for tracking crimes and criminals, and then unveiled a social media campaign on  , Twitter and You-Tube against gangsters and pro-Khalistan groups.

 While ‘Crime and   and System’ (CCTNS) is part of the police initiative to go paperless in recording complaints and registering FIRs, the social media campaign is aimed at negating attempts made by gangsters and pro-Khalistan groups to influence youth in the state online.
 
  
  
 
 Under CCTNS, police officials will be provided tablets for ensuring that all documentation is digital. The new system will help cops link crimes with criminals and vice-versa. It will also provide crime intelligence, better services to residents and simplify maintenance of records. The DGP, Suresh  , said they had so far spent Rs 22.64 crore on the project, of the Rs 47 crore sanctioned by the Centre. “It now covers 600 locations, including 400 police stations. We already have a database for 12 years (2005 to 2017) that contains about 7.6 lakh FIRs and a total 29 lakh records of different investigation-related forms, which can be searched and retrieved from the database online,” the DGP said.
 
 Huge presence of gangsters on social media and their appeal among Punjabi youth prompted cops to launch the social media campaign. According to   Police officials, videos shared by New York-based Sikhs For Justice (SFJ), which has been appealing to the people of Punjab to fight for a separate state, also pushed them to launch the Facebook page PunjabPoliceIndia (www.facebook.com/Punjab-PoliceIndia), Twitter handle PunjabPolice (www.twitter.com/PunjabPolice), and   channel Punjab Police.
 
 The CM said the social media campaign would go a long way in bridging the gap between police and residents, and also at tackling abuse of social media by gangsters and criminals seeking to spread terror in the state. “Social media accounts will provide an effective forum for sharing information, getting feedback and channeling complaints,” Amarinder said, while urging the police to harness the social media effectively for the mutual benefit of the force and the residents.
 
