VIJAYAPURA: A Class 10 studen t was allegedly gang-raped by four men in a banana field at   village in   taluk near   on Tuesday. One of the accused was caught by the girl's father who heard her cries for help, while three others are on the run. 

 Thousands of villagers blocked the road in   and burned tyres to protest the alleged d elay in nabbing the culprits. Police assured action would be taken and convinced them to retreat after traffic was held up for several hours. 
 
 The girl was on her way to school when she was accosted by the four men. They were apparently waiting for her as it was the usual route she took to school. The accused then dragged her to the banana field situated behind the ancient Seven Round Fort locality and raped her. 
 
 The girl and her family live nearby. As she cried for help, her father heard her and rushed to the spot. Three of the assaulters fled. One of them,  , was caught and surrounded by villagers as the girl's father raised an alarm. Angry villagers thrashed him before police arrived. An officer of the Nalatawad police outpost took him into custody and later handed him over to Muddebihal police.
 
 The girl was taken to the government hospital where doctors examined her and confirmed  . The girl's father filed a case at the Muddebihal police station. A manhunt is on to trace the three absconding culprits.
 
 As the news spread, protests broke out in Nagabenal. Areshankar gram panchayat member Bhimanna Gurikar and Ahind Taluk general secretary Mounesh Madar led the protest in the village. 
 
 A huge crowd gathered at the main road and blocked traffic, joined by many other local outfits. As traffic began to pile up, Muddebihal circle inspector Ravikumar Kappattanavar and sub-inspector   addressed the protesters and convinced them to disperse, assuring them of speedy action to bring the culprits to book. 
 
 SP Kuldeepkumar Jain, DSP Maheshgouda Patil, tahsildar M S Bagwan and other officials others visited the girl in hospital. 
 
 
