GANDHINAGAR: Comptroller & Auditor General( ) of India, the apex autonomous auditor of the country in it’s ‘Economic Sector’ audit report of the   government submitted in the state assembly on Wednesday criticized the state government for the neglect of the fisheries sector.

 In the performance audit (PA) of the state fisheries department covering the period from 2012-13 to 2016-17 the CAG noted, “During 2012-17, marine fish production of the state constituted about 20 per cent of the all India marine fish production while inland fish production of the state was little more than one and half per cent of the all India inland fish production. Gujarat’s share in the all India marine production has decreased.’’
 
 Pointing out tilted development in inland fisheries, the CAG observed, “Under inland fisheries, against the potential of 2.49 lakh MT per annum of fish production, the department has so far exploited 45 per cent only. In the inland fisheries schemes, the achievement against the target of various sub-schemes ranged from nil to 421.43 per cent.”
 
 Observing that the higher success of some schemes were obtained at the cost of others thus impeding holistic fisheries development, the CAG report mentioned, “Audit observed higher achievement in some sub-schemes due to higher demand by the beneficiaries under those sub-schemes.” Highlighting how some schemes had greater success, the CAG said, “The additional funds required were re-appropriated from sub-schemes where funds were not required.”
 
 Criticizing the fisheries department’s approach, the CAG said, “The department did not have a marketing policy critical to its success, but it was assisting the small vendors, processing plant owners, etc. through sub schemes like insulated box, assistance to women self-help groups, upgradation of processing plants and machinery, etc.”
 
 In the fish culture cage scheme of both Centre and state, juggling of figures in the books was noted by the CAG, which said, “The scheme for Fish Culture Cage under   was not implemented during 2012-17. While in the state scheme for Fish Culture Cage, no expenditure was incurred during 2014-15 and 2016-17.” The audit report observed tersely, “In both the schemes, while the department parked the funds with other agencies, it reported utilization of funds by showing achievement of financial targets.”
 
 Highlighting poor utilization of resources, the CAG said, “The department mapped only 12,165.80 ha of land for brackish water aquaculture up to September 2017 against the availability of 89,340 ha of land. Besides. only 1,842.21 ha of land was brought under brackish water aquaculture during April 2012 to September 2017.”
 
 Not only these, the CAG pointed out lapses in fisheries infrastructure development. “The department failed to carry out works for the construction of nine new harbours as envisaged in the 12th Five-Year Plan, thereby depriving better facilities to the fishermen and fishing community,” the CAG noted.
 
 Raising issues in implementing providing GPS to fishermen by the government of Gujarat, the CAG also pointed out, “As on March 31, 2017, there was a shortfall in release of funds for subsidey of Rs 310.50 crore by the government of Gujarat to the department for reimbursement to eligible fishermen.” The shortfall was in relation to diesel/VAT subsidy provided to fisherment by fisheries department.
 
 Pointing out abysmal failure in conservation efforts, the CAG said, “The government of Gujarat had not issued any notification, regulation and directions for adoption of uniform fishing ban period, thereby defeating the objective of conserving and effective management of fishery resources.”
 
 On the same not, the CAG report observed further, “The department did not conduct any impact evaluation of the schemes factoring in the specific needs of the inland, marine and brackish water fish farmers. Therefore, the department could not assess whether the desired objectives of fisheries development were achieved.”
 
 
