BENGALURU: Three jumbos from   who were sent to Jharkhand’s Palamau tiger reserve last month are facing an elephantine hurdle. Used to taking commands in Urdu-laced Kannada, they aren’t able to comprehend their new handlers, who speak in Hindi. To make sure the animals develop a new bond with the handlers, three mahouts from Karnataka who escorted the   to the eastern state have been asked to extend their stay for a few months.

 Dr Umashankar, veterinarian with the forest department, said the elephants — Kaala Bhairava, Sita and her calf, Murugesan — were sent from Bandipur and   camps in March. They are used to their respective mahouts and need more time to get accustomed to the new handlers’ instructions. “Our mahouts will train the Jharkhand staff in the language along with the jumbos’ food habits. Traditionally, elephants in Karnataka are instructed in Urdu-dominated Kannada, which is spoken by the tribal community to which mahouts generally belong,” he added.
 
 A senior official with the forest department said the mahouts at Palamau will be taught the commands used in Karnataka, with some Kannada words thrown in. The elephants will be trained to follow some Hindi instructions as well. Two Karnataka mahouts and a kavadi, who helps bathe the elephants and arranges food for them, are presently camping in Jharkhand.
 
 Once trained, these elephants will assist the tiger reserve staff in patrolling the woods and take part in safari expeditions as well.
 
 A senior veterinarian from the forest department said in the absence of a standardized language followed in the country to train elephants, mahouts play a crucial role in the lives of camp elephants. Separation from a long-time associate can affect the animals psychologically. “If they don’t get familiarised with the new handler, jumbos may turn aggressive. So it’s better to have the old mahouts stick around for longer,” he added.
 
 Similar case at  
 
 In 2014, when Sundar, a 14-year-old rescued jumbo, was brought to   from Maharashtra, the staffers at BBP faced a similar problem as the young elephant understood commands only in Marathi. They had a tough time helping Sundar unlearn Marathi and pick up Kannada commands.
 
 Reel connection
 
 Jumbos and the language connection has been well depicted in Gajakesariyogam, a   film released in the early 1990s. In the flick, a mahout, who gets an elephant from a circus company in North India, struggles to convey instructions in the local lingo as the latter follows nothing but Hindi. The film further shows how the mahout aged above 60 and his wife end up learning Hindi from a tutor who finally falls in love with their daughter!
 
 
