IMPHAL: Inspired by the rich biodiversity of Manipur, a professional DJ who was based in Mumbai and had even worked in the US earlier, has quit his job and taken up the cudgels to conserve wildlife at   town in Manipur. 

 Daniel Marcus Macwan, who moved to the northeastern state with his wife Galina Newme three years ago, was deeply moved by the plight of wild animals and started putting in earnest efforts to rescue them. Since the beginning of last year, the couple have been buying wild animals from illegal traders and hunters at the Tamenglong market and releasing them into the wild or handing them over to the state zoo authorities. They have now set up the Tamenglong Animals' Home as a shelter for the rescued animals.
 
 "Leaving the busy city of Mumbai, we decided to settle down in Tamenlong because of its pristine climate and beautiful, green valleys. But when we saw wild animals and birds being gagged and bound, we could no longer be just mute spectators. Thus began our campaign to save wild animals," Daniel (43) told TOI. 
 
 Daniel married Galina, a Rongmei Naga, in 2005. 
 
 As a DJ, Daniel had worked at the Ghetto and Rasana Pubs, Groove, the Music Destination, Salimar Hotel, Shantranj and QI in Mumbai for around seven years. He had also been associated with Royal Caribbean Cruises at Miami in Florida for three years. But his work now as a wildlife conservationist has challenges of its own. "To the stop the menace of trapping and killing animals - which has a tradition of its own in the hills - we try to educate people people about the importance of conservation. We first bought two big Asian forest tortoises, each weighing around 27 kg at the total cost of Rs 7000 from the Tamenglong market, and later handed them over to the Manipur zoological garden authorities in  ," Daniel said.
 
 The turtles were later released at   by the state forest authorities. The couple even nurture and feed young animals when they are too young to be released out there in the wild. "We bought a leopard cub for Rs 1000 from a hunter. But he was too young and so we fed her with milk every three hours with utmost care. Sadly, the cub suffered diarrhoea and died as we could not immediately find any Vets here," Daniel says with a tinge of regret.
 
 
