Trichy: With the ban on entry of heavy vehicles with vegetable loads coming into effect on June 1, Trichy corporation’s 1.5-acre lorry shed at East Boulevard may see a dip in patronage. Citing the proposed ban aimed at relocating Gandhi Market to Kallikudi, proposals have been submitted to the district administration and civic body to relocate the lorry shed along the market to the outskirts. 

 While Trichy District Lorry Owners Association acknowledged the constraints involved in parking their vehicles on EB road, they have asked the district administration to identify suitable space to park heavy vehicles. Sprawling on 1.50 acres, the lorry shed of Trichy Corporation has been leased to a private party to allow parking of heavy vehicles visiting Gandhi market and nearby logistics firms for a price. Despite the facility, it was common to spot several heavy vehicles parked over either end of EB road causing bottlenecks. These vehicles were parked for free claiming that space was inadequate at the shed.
 
 It was in these circumstances that the district administration joined hands with the civic body and the city police to restrict the entry of heavy vehicles within Gandhi market from June 1. Civic body sources said that the number of vehicles making use of the lorry shed would now come down substantially. “While relocating Gandhi market to city outskirts, the stakeholder departments should consider proposals and make efforts to move the lorry shed from EB road. Gandhi market and surrounding vicinity need such well-planned efforts to prevent traffic congestion,” N Ramakrishnan, founding secretary, MGR Nalpani Mandram, said.
 
 While at least 200 heavy vehicles could be parked in the corporation lorry shed near EB Road, it is said that at least 30-40 % vehicles will no more need the parking space after the ban. “Though we are interested in moving out of EB road, we do not have an alternative. Neither the elected representatives nor the district administration have taken any decisive action on our decades-old demand seeking parking facility,” R K Prabhakaran, secretary, Trichy District Lorry Owners Association, said. Corporation sources said that the agreement with the leasee to operate the lorry shed ground would lapse on April 1, 2019. 
 
 However, despite the Gandhi market relocation process gathering pace, the civic body is yet to take a call on relocating the lorry shed. “So far, we have not drafted any plans for the lorry shed. But certainly the patronage would go down after the enforcement of the ban,” a senior official with the civic body said. Local people said that keeping the EB road free of heavy vehicles would also invite investors’ interest to one of the oldest roads of Trichy.
 
 Truck traffic 
 
 Total number of trucks in the district: 4,500 to 6,000
 
 Number of trucks visiting Gandhi market a day: 1,500 to 2,000
 
 Area of lorry shed on EB road: 1.50 acre
 
 Number of trucks that can be parked: 200-250
 
 Number of trucks using the parking facility: 100-125
 
 Locations proposed to relocate lorry shed
 
 1) Ariyamangalam dump yard (Provided city corporation reclaims 10 acres of land to entertain parking)
 
 2) Fathima Nagar, Nagamangalam
 
 Available alternative locations to park trucks
 
 Senthanneerpuram | Kondayampettai
 
 
