JAIPUR: Rajasthan   has asked   and   to file an affidavit on the fees structure of the school last year and the revised fees along with the annual expenditure incurred for running the school.

 The division bench of Justice M N Bhandari and D C Somani issued the direction on a petition challenging the order issued by the district education officer (DEO) Jaipur–I on April 20 staying the fee hike affected by the school management.
 
 The petition challenging the   (Regulation of Fee) Act 2016 said, order dated April 20 is beyond the authority of the said officer since no such provision so as to enable such officer to address or direct upon any fee-related grievance has been provided in the Act of 2016. Further, the Act talks about the state regulating the fee collected by private unaided educational institutions, which is violation of the fundamental right of the petitioner to regulate and manage the petitioner school as guaranteed under Article 19 (1) (g) of the Constitution of India. 
 
 The petition contended that Vidhyashram School is a non-aided autonomous school. So the government cannot control the fee structure determined by the school management.
 
 “The Act and the subsequent order of the district education officer are both irreparably harmful not only to the petitioner but also all the students associated with the petitioner school since if the petitioner school does not collect the fee at revised rates, it will not be able to incur the expenditure that is a result of provision of adequate infrastructure, facilities, appropriate remuneration etc.”
 
 The Supreme Court also in an earlier order had upheld the right of the private schools to charge the fees according to the facilities provided to the students, it was argued.
 
 The school management further contested that the fees committee which determines the fess of the private schools are dominated by government officials and the schools have little say in the decision. The petition said the fee committee is headed by the divisional commissioner and other government officials. Even the representative of the private school is decided by the government, said Prateek Kasliwal, counsel for the petitioner. The matter has been posted for next hearing on May 1.
 
 Court stays government order on banning pass books
 
 Jaipur: The Rajasthan High Court, while staying the order of the director of secondary education banning the use of pass books by students and teachers, issued notice to the director.
 
 The single bench of Justice SP Sharma issued the order on a petition by Sanjiv Prakashan.
 
 Director on March 13 this year issued the order imposing restriction on the use of pass books and instead use textbooks and also warned of disciplinary action against the violators of the order. The petitioner said it publishes pass books for different subjects which help the students in their studies.
 
 The petitioner also said the director secondary education has no powers to impose ban on pass books. Besides, it contended that there were many other study materials published by other publishers such as One Week Series, Guess papers, Question Banks etc which were no mentioned in the said order. It said the said order adversely affects the business of the publisher which is not only discriminatory but arbitrary.
 
 
