Mirror had earlier reported (May 9, 2017) that after backing the National Award-winning Marathi film  ,   in Bhojpuri and Sarvann in Punjabi, among others,   will now produce a period romance titled  , which recreates Nobel laureate Rabindranath Tagore’s real-life romance and will be directed by National Award-winning director  . We have now learnt that the film will roll in September and wrap up by December. The makers have roped in Bengali actor   to play Tagore, while Marathi actress Vaidehi Parshurami has been cast as Nalini.

  
  
  Confirming the news, Chatterjee says, “I have discussed it with   ma’am (Priyanka’s mother) and while we’re taking the film on the floors in September, the candid shots will begin in July as we require rains for some important sequences in the film.” Prod him on the reason behind the delay and he informs, “That is because we got the permission on the script from Visva-Bharati University only in December last year after submitting three drafts. After that we had decided to make the film in English with Priyanka in it but that didn’t materialise. We have finally decided to make it a Bengali, Marathi, English trilingual. Pre-production is on in full swing right now and I will start workshops with my actors closer to the shooting date.”
 
  In 1878, when Tagore was 17 and staying with Dr Atmaram Pandurang Turkhud at his Mumbai residence, he fell in love with his 20-year-old daughter, Annapurna. She had just returned from England and since she was conversant with English etiquette, she became his tutor. On Annapurna’s insistence, he gave her the name Nalini, and immortalised her in a poem he wrote for her and set to music too. However, Tagore’s father did not approve of his lady love and the liaison ended. In 1880, Annapurna married a Scot, Harold Littledale, and the couple left for England.
 
  “It was a platonic love story and the film will narrate it from the point of view of a young student who visits modern-day Santiniketan and sees a picture of Annapurna captioned ‘Nalini’," Chatterjee had earlier told Mirror. His wife Sagarika has written the film, while casting director   has also roped in Soumitra Chatterjee, Victor Banerjee, Madhav Abhyankar, Seema Deshmukh, Sukhada Khandkekar and Angad Mhaskar for pivotal roles.
  
  
 
 
