NAGPUR: The first ever scientific study in India of small   projects (SHPs) in   has revealed that despite being promoted as clean energy, they have significantly impacted ecology and caused alterations in the course of streams. Also, quality of water and freshwater fish too has taken a hit.

 Western Ghats represent a continuous band of natural vegetation extending over a distance of 1,500km and is spread across the six states of Gujarat, Maharashtra, Goa, Karnataka, Kerala and Tamil Nadu. 
 
 The work recently published in the journal ‘Aquatic Conservation’ was conducted by scientists from   (  Program), National Centre for Biological Sciences in Bengaluru, Ashoka Trust for Research in Ecology and the Environment, and Foundation for Ecological Research Advocacy and Learning (FERAL).
 
 SHPs are hydroelectric plants with relatively smaller power-generating capacity compared to larger ones. They are often promoted as a cleaner and greener alternative as it is assumed that they have little or no environmental impact.
 
 In India, they are defined as those that generate power up to 25MW. There has been a proliferation of SHPs in India, especially in biodiversity-rich areas such as the Western Ghats and Himalayas. As of 2012 there were 1,266 projects commissioned while another 6,474 are waiting to be undertaken.
 
 The study was conducted in the upper reaches of Netravathi River, which is part of the Western Ghats biodiversity hotspot, in February-May 2014. In the study, two dammed tributaries and one undammed tributary of the west-flowing Netravathi river were selected.
 
 It was found that the SHPs affected the river flow by reducing flow immediately below the dam and caused flow fluctuation when the water is released back into the river after power generation — both of which have consequences on fish assemblages. The dammed streams had altered fish composition and reduced number of species.
 
 Explaining the results, lead author   said, “Our study was one of the first to holistically assess the impacts of SHPs in the Western Ghats. Since they divert water for long distances, it leaves vast stretches of the river almost completely devoid of water flow in the dry season. Waters in these stretches had lower oxygen levels and higher water temperature. Not surprisingly, these habitat alterations strongly affected freshwater fish assemblages.”
 
 The study also found that the dammed streams had more generalist species of fish compared to specialist species. They also had reduced numbers of migratory fish such as the ‘mahseer’.
 
 A couple of years ago, as part of the related study, the research team had conducted a survey to understand the perceptions of local communities towards the SHPs. They noticed that there was general discontent among the communities who were dependent on the river.
 
 The SHPs have also brought along a surge in human-elephant conflicts. The research showed that there were increased human-elephant conflicts whenever a new SHP was being constructed.
 
 WCS-India’s Shishir Rao, who co-authored the study, says, “Our research has shown that the sudden onset of human-elephant conflict in the study area correlated with the beginning of SHP construction. In the year 2005, the number of claims filed for elephant conflict compensation increased by 173% compared to the year before.”
 
 Apart from the dam, the construction of associated structures such as large pipes, canals and transmission lines hinders the movement of elephants, forcing them to find new routes, thus increasing the incidences of conflicts with humans.
 
 “SHPs are a classic case of good intentions leading to terrible consequences. This is mainly because SHPs are defined not based on their ecological footprint, but rather on their installed capacity. In our country, SHPs are hydroelectric dams that produce up to 25MW of power — an arbitrary threshold,” says Jumani.
 
 
