It has been 18 years since they last worked together, which was for a play titled 'I Do I Don’t'. Later, good friends   and   turned sisters-in-law after Tannaz married Delnaaz’s brother, Bhakhtyar. And now, there is another twist in the tale; they have turned sautans! Shocking, isn’t it? 

 Well, it’s all in the reel world. The two actresses have been roped into portray warring women in the play, ' ', an out-an-out comedy. Delnaaz says, “It’s quite funny to see people looking shocked when we say that we are playing sautans. Since we are acting together after so long, they expect us to play nanad and bhabhi. Tannaz and I are constantly at loggerheads in the play. Initially, I was apprehensive about calling her a kameeni. It’s not as easy as it is assumed to be just because we are actors; above everything, we are family. But that’s when an artiste’s experience and talent comes into the picture. We have been doing theatre since years now, and have a lot of fun at rehearsals.”
 
 The play, which is directed by  , also stars theatre veterans like   and  . “Tannaz joked that we should be calling it a ‘Retro Play’, given the fact that such seniors are acting in it,” quips the actress.
 
 Their friendship goes a long way. Joking about it, Delnaaz says, “Tannaz and I were friends ever before Bhakhtyar was born (laughs). It was a shocker for me when I learnt about their relationship, because of our friendship and also the fact that there was an age gap between them. Of course, it didn’t matter later because they were madly in love and compatible, and things fell in place for them. Now, our equation has undergone a change as she is my sister-in-law. I am close to their kids Zeus and Zara and totally adore them. The best part about us is that we give each other space and are there for each other when in need.”
 
 So close are the nanad and bhabhi that they freely talk about Bhakhtyar. Delnaaz says, “I can tell her if I don’t like something that Bhakhtyar has done or said. She is my punching bag. We talk it out.”
 
 So, what was Bhakhtyar’s reaction when he learnt about their reel equation? “Nothing. He just asks us if we are making Mughal-E-Azam because we return home very late post rehearsals (laughs),” says Delnaaz.
 
 Ask her if there was ever a point when their screen equation spilled over in real life, too, and she replies, “I switch off once the rehearsal is over and so does Tannaz. However, what amazes me about her is that she is equally energetic off screen, too. I have no idea where she gets so much energy from.”
 
 On the other hand, Tannaz says, “At first, I was really excited about acting together after so many years, but then, the feeling seeped in that we are poles apart. In the play, I have to exhibit some level of intimacy with her husband and that reminds me of Bhakhtyar and me, which was awkward initially. However, we have now overcome that feeling. Delnaaz and I have these joking, bitching and fun sessions (laughs). I am just looking forward to recreating the magic, which we used to do a long time ago.”
 
 And what about Delnaaz calling her a ‘kameeni’ in the play? Tannaz replies, “First of all, hearing it from her sounds funny, as Delnaaz doesn’t talk like that at all. And here I am, giving her deadly looks, which I would have never been able to do otherwise. So, in a way, I am imposing the authority of a bhabhi, albeit on stage.”
 
