NASHIK: Inspector general (special) Nashik Range, V   has formed an eight-member special investigation team (SIT) to probe sexual abuse of a five-year-old at a kindergarten run by a private organisation in   in Dhule district.

 The SIT was formed with a view to properly investigate the crime, which may not be possible at the police station level.
 
 On February 8, the girl was sexually abused by an unknown person but it took 10 days for her parents to realise that their daughter was sexually abused after they took her to the doctor.
 
 After getting to know about the crime, her parents registered a complaint at   under Section 376 of Indian Penal Code and various other sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (POSCO Act, 2012). The case was later transferred to   in Dhule district.
 
 Meanwhile, four office bearers of the educational institute, where the girl studied, were booked under Section 21 of POCSO for failing to report or record the case.
 
 The incident sparked off a series of agitations and memorandums were submitted to senior police and government officials. Considering the seriousness of the crime, IG (special) V K Choubey formed an eight-member SIT on March 1.
 
 IG (special) V K Choubey told TOI, “The case in itself is of a serious nature with a five-year-old child being the victim. The main suspect is yet to be identified and arrested, which could not be possible without the information from the rape survivor. We have also involved an NGO and some counsellors so that the victim can provide some information.”
 
 “The parents of the rape survivor are also in trauma and they too are being counselled. A special team has been formed to expedite the investigation process,” added Choubey.
 
 The SIT is headed by additional superintendent of Dhule Vivek Pansare, subdivisional officer of Shirpur Sandeep Gavit, PI of Dondaicha police station  , and other officers form Dhule, Nandurbar, Jalgaon and Nashik.
 
 “One office bearer of the educational institute has been arrested, while three more who have been booked, are at large. Police have launched a hunt to trace them,” a police officer said. 
 
 
