NAGPUR: An urgent review is required of the state of red buses plying on city roads. On January 22, 30 passengers had a miraculous escape when a bus caught fire on   road. The following day, another red bus broke down on   road.

 According to the traffic cops, an average 20-25 buses break down in the city every day. Sometimes, the count even reaches to 30. As per the data, as many as 779 NMC buses had broken down in the city in December 2017. The maximum number of breakdowns were reported on Wadi, Hingna, Kamptee, Pardi, Hudkeshwar, Butibori routes. 
 
 Delhi Integrated Multi-modal Transit System Limited (DIMTS)—the firm entrusted with monitoring city bus operation—has also imposed a fine of Rs32 lakh on three red bus operators. 
 
 Sources in the transport department said DIMTS started imposing fine from January 10. The fines were imposed for various reasons like breakdown, non-functional of GPS system and cancellation of trips etc. 
 
 The regular occurrences are causing commuters inconvenience as with every breakdown they have to deal with serpentine jams that take hours to ease up.
 
 According to the passengers and the bus crew who spoke to TOI on Saturday at   bus stand, the sudden breakdown not only resulted in them reaching the destination late but also posed traffic jams during peak hours. 
 
 Commuters from city’s outskirts like Wadi, Hingna, Pardi and Hudkeshwar reaching Mor Bhavan bus stand rued that they do not care if the bus is owned by the NMC or a contractor. “We suffer for no fault of ours. All buses should be well maintained,” they said. 
 
 They also claimed that many buses on the stretch require immediate replacement. According to the DIMTS officials, multiple factors like brake failure, tyre puncture, air-locking, failure of transmission system and engines result in breakdowns of buses. Besides, lack of maintenance and shortage of trained personnel only add to the woes. “The worn out spare parts too need to be replaced,” said a DIMTS official.
 
 The official admitted that there were some hiccups in a few depots, but he maintained that out of 375 buses operated daily in the city, only about 20 to 25 buses develop snags and result in breakdown. There are four depots in the city limits and on information, the crew from the nearest point rushes to the spot. The officer also admitted that the breakdown affected the targeted kilometre per day on specific routes.
 
 
