PATNA: The East Central Railway (ECR) has launched a drive in all its five divisions – Danapur, Mughalsarai, Dhanbad, Sonepur and Samastipur – to inform passengers the ways to use bio toilets.

 
 ECR chief public relations officer (CPRO) Rajesh Kumar said the drive would continue till June 24. “Railway officials and staff are holding awareness drives at all the major stations under ECR from where mail and express trains originate. They are urging passengers not to throw plastic bags or any other unwanted materials in the bio toilet commodes,” Kumar said.
 
 He added the railways has decided to convert the existing toilets into bio toilets under the Centre’s ‘Swachh Bharat Abhiyan’ to maintain cleanliness on rail tracks. “The ECR has so far fitted about 360 coaches of long distance trains with bio toilets.   has sanctioned Rs 4 crore to ECR to retrofit bio toilets in the passenger coaches,” he said. 
 
 The CPRO said the Danapur division had fitted bio toilets in 25 coaches during the 2015-2016 fiscal. “The number has increased to 60 coaches in the division now. Bio toilets keep cockroaches and flies at bay,” he said.
 
 Under the new development plan of railways, all Linke Hofmann Busch (LHB) coaches are fitted with bio toilets. The rail coach factory at   is manufacturing   coaches fitted with bio toilets. “Railways has decided to convert all conventional toilets into bio toilets in a phased manner. It has set a target of installing bio toilets in 2,500 coaches in the current fiscal,” Kumar said.
 
 A Board official told this newspaper on Thursday all trains being operated by the Indian Railways will have eco-friendly bio toilets soon. “In bio toilets, an anaerobic bacterium converts human waste into water and gases (methane and carbon dioxide). Railways has provided bio toilets on trial basis in Gwalior-Varanasi Bundelkhand Express, Jammu Tawi-Indore Malwa Express, Chennai-Guwahati Egmore Express, Nizamuddin-Indore Intercity Express, Indore-Gwalior Express, Mumbai-Varanasi Mahanagri Express, Lucknow-Mumbai Pushpak Express and Kochuveli-Bangalore Express,” he added.
 
 The Board official added the railways is facing the problem of environmental degradation and corrosion of tracks due to spread of human excreta on open tracks. “Corrosion costs railways more than Rs 350 crore every year. Railways has, thus, set up a core committee to complete fitting bio toilets in all conventional coaches by 2020,” he said.
 
 
