CHENNAI: A day after Teynampet assistant commissioner of police C S   received a transfer to the   on Monday night, the department on Tuesday shunted him out to the vacancy reserve over audio tapes that exposed a nexus between the officer and certain repeat offenders.

 
 In a WhatsApp conversation that has since gone viral on social media, Muthalagu can be heard speaking to a man who offers him Rs 5 lakh to let off his brother in an abduction case. The leaked tape did the trick: The officer’s   posting lasted for a single night.
 
 Muthalagu was among 55 DSPs and ACs who the department transferred on Monday night.
 
 In December 2017, the department named Muthalagu the head of a special team after R S V Karthik Sethupathi, the heir of the Ramnad estate, who alleged that he was kidnapped by people he accused of stealing antiques worth Rs 33 crore from the adopted heir of  , elder daughter of Ramnad zamindar Shanmuga Rajeshwara Naganatha Sethupathi.
 
 In three audio clips now on the internet, a person who identifies himself as the brother of Sundar, a suspect the police arrested with alleged gangster ‘Rocket’ Raja, offers to pay Rs 5 lakh to the  , the special officer probing the case.
 
 The officer replies that Rs 5 lakh would not even cover his expenses on tea and asks his interlocutor to meet the inspector working under him and pay him the money instead.
 
 In the audio clips, sources said, Muthalagu was speaking to Sundar’s brother about Sundar’s purported role in the abduction of Karthik. The police had been searching for Sundar.
 
 The officer tells Sundar’s brother he is ready to help them because they belonged to the same caste. But he abruptly abuses him for not meeting him personally and says his team is ready to arrest Sundar in a day or two. He also boasts about his proximity to senior police officers.
 
 While the city police were making a show of searching for the suspects, sources said, an   (OCIU) team apprehended them from a Teynampet hotel. The OCIU tracked them down by monitoring the officer’s cellphone, the sources said. Members of the gang, upset with the officer for not preventing the arrests despite taking money from them, leaked the clips, the sources said.
 
 After senior officers heard the tapes, they ordered a probe. DGP T K Rajendran then placed Muthalagu in the vacancy reserve in his office.
 
 Denying the charges, Muthalagu maintained that the voice in the audio clip was not his and that the gang had framed him.
 
