S P Thiyagarajan, a social activist, has been fighting a lonely battle all these days to get the Coimbatore corporation upload all the resolutions passed by it in the civic body’s website. 

 The corporation had kept former councillors and the public in the dark about the resolutions it had passed since the council was dissolved in October 2016.
 
 Suspecting that there was something fishy in the resolutions, Thiyagarajan approached the civic body seeking a copy of them. He was swiftly denied. 
 
 After running from pillar to post for over a year, he finally came to know about the existence of the Tamil Nadu local bodies’  . 
 
 Now, hoping to find a solution to his demand, he has approached the ombudsman in Chennai.
 
 Like Thiyagarajan, the ombudsman is giving hope to lot of public and activists who are dissatisfied with the functioning of the local body authorities. 
 
 The ombudsman, statutory body constituted in November 2014, has been hearing several cases against local bodies and rendering orders.
 
 Since its constitution, the ombudsman has heard hundreds of cases from all the urban local bodies across the state and has passed orders in 680 cases. “Generally, when there is a civic issue, we write to the respective department. But if the official of the department himself is involved in irregularities, the ombudsman comes to our rescue,” said  , an advocate. 
 
 This was mainly created to provide a platform to citizens to raise grievances against the public servants and officials working in local bodies. In several cases, the errant officials faced departmental action.
 
 The ombudsman takes up cases of various irregularities, including irregularities in providing drinking water connections, pattas, encroachments and all civic issues. 
 
 The complainant needs to write a petition to the ombudsman following which he/she will be called for a hearing within few days. 
 
 The complainant needs to go with witnesses and evidence to Chennai and present the case.
 
 S Ayyar, appointed as ombudsman by the government, said that various cases have come from local bodies and many have been resolved in the last four years.
 
 But Ramesh said that though ombudsman passes stern orders, since there is no follow-up, action is seldom taken. “Most of the officials do not implement the orders. Despite appeals, action is not taken against the officials concerned. Only if the orders are adhered can there be success. In one such case in Chennai, the civic body had dug up drains out of a freshly laid road. After I raised a complaint, the civic body officials were called to explain and later, no action was taken against them,” he said. 
 
 
