CHANDIGARH: In a major reshuffle in the Punjab Police, the state government on Saturday transferred 34   and five   officers. Eight IPS officers were promoted from the rank of IG to ADGP and two from DIG to IG. 

 Meanwhile, the charge of ADGP border has been withdrawn from the anti-drug   head ADGP Harpreet Singh Sidhu. In addition, Sukhchain Singh has been appointed Ludhiana police commissioner.
 
 Sharad Satya Chauhan is new ADGP (traffic) and Gaurav Yadav as ADGP (administration). Among the eight IPS officers promoted on Saturday, Gurpreet Deo has been posted as ADGP (IT and telecommunication, and litigation), Varinder Kumar as ADGP (intelligence),   as ADGP (law and order) with additional charge of community policing and NRI, Jitendra Jain as ADGP (policy and rules), S K Asthana as ADGP (modernisation), Shashi Prabha Dwivedi as ADGP (human resource development), R N Dhoke as ADGP (security) and Arpit Shukla as ADGP (provisioning).
 
 The state police have also transferred four range IGs. V Neeraja has been transferred as IG Ropar range with additional charge of IG cyber crime, MF Farooqui is IG Bathinda range, Naunihal Singh is IG Jalandhar range and Gurinder Singh Dhillon is now IG Ferozepur range.
 
 Others IPS officers who have been transferred include Naresh Arora as IG (intelligence), Ram Singh as IG (intelligence admin), Kunwar Vijay Pratap Singh is now IG (crime) with additional charge of organized crime control unit, Mohnish Chawla is IG (IT and telecommunication) and M S Chhina is IG (human rights).
 
 Two DIGs have also been promoted and Jaskaran Singh has been now posted as IG (crime) and Yurinder Singh as additional director-cum-IG of Punjab Police Academy at Phillaur.
 
 S K Singh has been given additional charge of IG (traffic) along with IG (security), A K Pandey has been transferred as IG (law and order, and commando-cum-special operations group) and Ananya Gautam has been handed over additional charge of IG ATS along with IG financial intelligence unit (FIU).
 
 A K Mittal has been transferred as DIG (administration), Gursharan Singh Sandhu as DIG (intelligence), B L Meena as DIG (crime), Ranbir Singh Khatra as DIG Ludhiana range, Deepak Hilori as AIG (intelligence) and Amneet Kondal as AIG (personnel-II).
 
 PPS officers who have been transferred include Jasdeep Singh Saini as AIG (counter intelligence), Sukhdev Singh as AIG (telecommunication), Rakesh Kaushal as AIG (crime), Randip Singh Mann as commandant of 3rd Commando Battalion at Mohali and   as AIG (CID, Amritsar).
 
 
