Hours after registering a police complaint against the miscreants who attacked him with an egg, outspoken film critic Mahesh Kathi has decided to withdraw the complaint and make peace with his attackers (allegedly fans of actor-politician Pawan Kalyan).  Kathi's decision to withdraw the complaint came after Pawan Kalyan's political party Jana Sena issued a letter, urging fans to refrain from reacting against their leader. While the letter doesn't directly or indirectly mention Kathi in any way, it was enough to calm the critic down — even if just for a while.  Within minutes, Pawan Kalyan fans claimed that the issue has been resolved and showed signs of moving on. Even noted writer-director Kona Venkat, who's been vocal in his criticism of Kathi, said that the matter has been closed.  "I should also thank Kathi Mahesh for coming forward to end this issue forever...good luck with ur career man   please don’t get instigated by any false comments or videos further.. if anyone try, they are the enemies of PK .. trust me !  (sic)," Kona Venkat said on social media, along with an image of Kathi smiling with his attackers.  Kona Venkat, who has recently written for films like 'Jai Lava Kusa' and 'Ninnu Kori', said that the fight was far from over. "But fight is not over my friends..   would be facing many more hurdles in reaching his goal.. If ur a true well wisher of him, maintain peace and balance.. u represent his ideologies and give confidence to society that ur a reflection of his character   (sic)," he said.  Kathi, meanwhile, said that he chose to "reform rather than punish" Pawan Kalyan fans, and hence has left the responsibility to Pawan Kalyan to rein in his directionless fans.  "I am not for punishing poor, amateur and directionless PK fans who attacked (me).PK and Janasena came up with directives now. One (of those who attacked me) is a misguided Dalit.I have a moral responsibility to reform them rather than punish.Condemning attack on me and apologising is left to PK's conscience (sic)," Kathi posted on social media.  While it looks like there has been a temporary pause in this longstanding stand-off, it remains to be seen if Pawan Kalyan would come out and make a public statement to rein in his fans. 