Surat: The Gems and   ( ) has termed the   and Gitanjali Gems bank fraud as unfortunate and expressed concern over the lacunae in the internal control system and failure of fraud protection measures within the public sector undertaking (PSU) banks. 

 GJEPC stated that the bank finance to the trade was already guided by stringent norms of   (RBI) and Government of India with detailed internal audits. This in turn is followed by external audits and a special audit by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) every few years. 
 
 Every Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunication (SWIFT) transaction by the bank is intimated to NOSTRO and international division (treasury) of the bank. In addition to this, RBI had launched export Data Processing and Monitoring System (EDPMS) in March 2014 to monitor payments against export and import bill. It is a system where all export/import transactions are captured and followed up till their realization by banks and customs.
 
 “It is a very unfortunate incident in the banking history of India. As an apex body of the gems and jewellery sector, we strongly condemn any sort of unlawful and illegal action by any individual, trade or otherwise. It should be noted that when thousands of exporters undertake business lawfully adhering to all norms and practices, prescribed very diligently, incidents of this kind can only take place due to non-adherence of procedures and norms laid down. The council strongly believes that this incidence will not have any contagion effect on the gems and jewellery export industry,” GJEPC chairman   said.
 
 The Indian diamond industry with its over tens of thousands of factories, 6,000 exporters are world leaders in processing of diamonds. The total diamond exports stand at a staggering US $23 billion with a value addition in excess of US $7 billion.
 
 On one hand, GJEPC is struggling to garner financing to the gems and jewellery exporters, especially the SME export sector, and here one finds this kind of clear advances (LoU) being provided by a bank without any safeguards, that speaks volumes of irregularities that needs to be thoroughly investigated, GJEPC noted. 
 
 “At GJEPC, we have always sensitized financial institutions and government for taking right kind of risk management measures to prevent such incidents. The council is ready to assist and support all investigating agencies in all possible ways to punish the guilty,” Agarwal said.
 
 
