MUMBAI: The managing trustee of a non-profit was arrested on Thursday after text messages sent to the public to gather mass support for a social campaign mentioned the mobile number of an IAS officer, resulting in thousands of callers hounding her. 

    termed it a ‘DoS (denial of service) attack’ as IAS officer Ashwini Bhide’s phone was rendered “inaccessible”, affecting discharge of her duty as the managing director of Mumbai Metro Rail Corporation.
 
 In December 2017, the Aarey Conservation Group (ACG) started a campaign on the non-profit’s online platform, airalert.in, to save Aarey Colony from being destroyed for a Metro shed. Citizens could sign the petition online or give a missed call on two phone numbers. Giving a missed call meant one received an auto-reply thanking them for signing the petition. Those who signed the campaign received a text message which had Bhide’s mobile number. The message stated that the National Green Tribunal was to hear an Aarey forest case and Bhide should be called up on her number and asked to consider alternatives. Thousands of callers dialled Bhide's mobile number. If she did not answer the call, it would get directed to her landline. “The IAS officer couldn’t work due to constant calls. We then contacted mobile service providers to track the sender of these messages and learnt they were sent at the behest of Jhatkaa.org,” said Kalpana Gadekar, senior inspector of BKC police station. 
 
 Avijit Michael (35), the founder of Jhatkaa.org, was arrested under provisions of the Information Technology Act and released on bail. Avijit said Bhide’s number was taken from a ministry of human resource development website. “As a public servant, Bhide is answerable to the people on her officially listed contact numbers. There was never any intention to harass or obstruct her in her work, rather the effort was to allow citizens to make their concerns known to her,” Avijit told TOI. “The calls were made by individual citizens on their own accord and Jhatkaa.org had not instigated, forced or given any kind of incentives to callers. Jhatkaa.org had no knowledge or control over content of calls,” he added. 
 
 MMRC sources said citizens could have been provided Bhide’s email address for registering their concerns.
 
 
