KOTA: A busy railway line that passes through Mukundra Hill Tiger Reserve (MHTR) in Kota has turned into a death trap for endangered wildlife. Around a two-year-old  , which is a wildlife schedule-1 category protected animal, was killed on the spot after being hit by a moving train on Delhi-Mumbai track in Dara village falling under MHTR in Kota district Wednesday night. 

 The carcass of the leopard was recovered by the forest department authorities from the track on the information of a railway guard on Thursday morning.
 
 “Carcass of a male leopard about two-year-old was found on Thursday morning between the two lines of Mumbai –Delhi railway track at Gadde ki Mala Choki in Dara village, a part of MHTR,” assistant conservator of forest (AFC), MHTR, Anil Yadav said. “The leopard is most likely to have been killed after being hit by a moving train Wednesday night or early Thursday morning on the track as body bears the marks of fatal injuries on head, stomach and tail,” he added. “The leopard is most likely to have got hit by front side of railway engine killing the animal on the spot,” the ACF said adding lot of movement of train traffic exists on the track with probabilities to hit and injure the wild animals in MHTR.
 
 The forest authorities were informed about the carcass by the railway guard around 10 am on Thursday following which the body was recovered and sent for post-mortem in Kota.
 
 Around seven kilometers long Mumbai-Delhi railway track passes through the forest of MHTR where the newly relocated MT-1 tiger habitats is fenced, around two kilometers of track is still unfenced. 
 
 In September last year, a nine-year-old sloth bear was killed at the spot in Dara village after being hit by a moving train on the track. In 2003, the tiger popularly known as broken tail was killed in the same manner after being hit by moving train.
 
 Expressing concern over killing of the leopard, Brajesh Vijayvergya, a wildlife activist in Kota demanded an immediate joint action plan by ministry of forest and railway to check such incidents on the railway track.
 
 
