KOLKATA:   is putting the two rakes it received from Integral Coach Factory (ICF), Chennai, through their paces before using them for commercial services. According to   Railway general manager Ajay Vijayvargiya, the rakes will be able to carry passengers by Durga Puja if they successfully clear all trials. Late on Sunday evening, the rakes underwent the first stage of signal tests known as the ‘audio-frequency and axle counter test’.

 “The aim of this test was to prevent collision and derailment. The rakes were run to check their compatibility with the existing track circuit and whether they can be run with the signal system that Metro has. Audio frequency was used to find out how much gap needs to be maintained between these rakes and others and the distance from a signal required for the driver to take necessary action,” a senior Metro official said.
  
  
 The ‘radio frequency interference test’ will be carried out next. For this, a raised platform has been created beyond the Mahanayak Uttam Kumar station. A special instrument with antennae will be placed on this platform to monitor the frequency generated by the rakes at different speeds. It will then be checked whether these frequencies are within limits. The instrument will measure the static and dynamic frequencies emitted by the rakes. A team from the ministry of electronics and information technology will be in Kolkata to conduct this test along with the   (RDSO).
 
 The rakes will have to clear four tests before they can be put to commercial use. Apart from the signal tests, they must undergo oscillation trials, speed trials and thermal performance tests. The thermal performance tests are required to check whether all systems perform even when the rakes have undertaken several trips. During this test, the rakes will be made to run 10 round trips non stop. Then the temperatures of equipment will be measured. The cooling period will also be measured to see how long the rakes have to be rested after a hectic schedule.
 
 Metro Railway CPRO Indrani Banerjee said, “These are all crucial safety tests. These rakes are highly sophisticated and all functions are software-controlled..”
 
 
