MIDNAPORE: The knives are out for local Trinamool leaders in the three   districts of Jhargram, West Midnapore and Purulia over the poor performance of the ruling party in the recently held rural polls. Trinamool sympathisers and even panchayat office-bearers have vented out their angst on social media, days ahead of chief minister Mamata Banerjee’s Jhargram visit on May 29.

  
  
 
 Dasharath Hembram, once a confidential assistant of former Paschimanchal Unnayan minister Sukumar Hansda, wrote on Facebook: “Should the leaders from Jhargram continue after the defeat?” A   loyalist, primary school teacher Subrata Saha reacts: “People in Jangalmahal didn’t vote for BJP, they voted against our arrogance.” 
 
 Prasenjit Yadav expresses lack of confidence in the present leadership. “There is no capable leader in Jangalmahal to carry out the development works of Mamata Banerjee,” he says. Dipika Bera, the karmadhyaksha of a panchayat samity under Gopiballvpur II, writes: “Trinamool has defeated Trinamool in the region.” In her post, Bera urged the TMC chief to engage transport minister Subhendu Adhikari as district observer.
 
 All these posts have one thing in common. They point to a gap that has resulted in TMC’s defeat on the home turf of Trinamool ministers and leaders. For instance, all the eight gram panchayats under OBC minister Churamani Mahato’s Gopiballavpur assembly segment went to BJP. Trinamool also lost all the seven panchayat seats under Gopiballavpur-I block, among others.
 
 Amid this political blame game, some have found a caste angle to Trinamool’s defeat. They argue that the local Kudmi community (different from the Kurmis in Bihar, UP), now placed under OBC-B category, voted against Trinamool because their fellowmen in the party like Santiram Mahato and Srinkanta Mahato worked against the organisations, leading the stir for an ST status for the community when the Mamata Banerjee government issued a circular sympathising their cause. 
 
 Veteran Naxal leader Santosh Rana, who hails from a Gopiballavpur village, doesn’t agree to this view. “There are a handful of Kudmis (Mahatos) in the villages under Gopiballvpur-I along the Subarnarekha river. Yet, the ruling party has lost in all the seven gram panchayats in the block like it did in Jhargram villages where Mahatos have a substantial presence,” Rana said. According to Rana, the Trinamool chief’s over-dependence on the former police superintendent of Jhargram (Bharati Ghosh) has done the damage. “The Jhargram SP used to double up as district Trinamool president till the other day. She used to take decisions, torment defiant party activists and also villagers. Her exit created a void that the district leaders couldn’t make up for,” Rana said.
 
 The alienation of the district Trinamool leaders became apparent from the success of movements such as ‘Dahar Chhanka’ (road blockade) and ‘Jigir Jita Gobchan’ (indefinite sit-in), demanding inclusion of Kudmis on the list of Scheduled Tribes. “Trinamool leader Santiram Mahato held a meeting at Akasganga hotel and asked Trinamool supporters to work against us,” said Adivasi Kudmi Samaj spokesperson  . “We mentioned this in our meetings in Jangalmahal. But we didn’t give any directive to our supporters during elections because Mamata Banerjee wrote to the Centre for including us in the ST category,” Mahato said.
 
 Some in TMC fear a social tension brewing up in Jangalmahal between Santhals, Bhumij and Kudmis claiming an ST status. “The Kudmi movement, if not handled properly, may lead to an assertion of identity like Matuas in North 24 Parganas. As many as four general category assembly seats — Gopiballavpur, Jhargram, Salboni and Garbeta — may turn into reserved ones in addition to Chandrakona, Binpur, Keshiary, Nayagram and Keshpur, now reserved for SCs/STs in Paschim Midnapore. The Mahatos may then claim representation in these seats strong enough to upset the social fabric in Jangalmahal,” said retired government employee Mukti Soren.
 
 
