GOLD COAST: After the iron ladies — the Chanus of Manipur — on the first two days, it was the turn of the Indian ironmen to set pulses racing at the weightlifting arena here on Saturday.

 
 Two Railways employees,   (men’s 77kg) and   (men’s 85kg), showed great skills and temperament to win a gold medal each. They defied pain — Sathish had a thigh niggle while Venkat had knee issues — and lack of deserved support to swell India’s tally to four gold medals on Day 3 of the Games.
 
 Both champions come from Tier II cities — Sivalingam from Vellore and Venkat from Guntur — and from a family of weightlifters. Sathish’s father Sivalingam and Venkat’s dad R Madhu competed at the national level and inspired their kids to better their efforts. Venkat’s younger brother Varun is also a national junior weightlifter.
 
 “I started lifting weights at the age of eight,” the 21-year-old Venkat said after beating Don Opeloge of Samoa in a tense battle for gold. Both the players were level on 151kg after the snatch and the face-off came in clean and jerk. Venkat began with a 182 and then improved it to 187 but failed at 191.
 
 The Samoan started with a good lift of 180kg and then went after the gold trying to lift 188kg. Rather than attempting to clear 188 again, he went for broke raising the bar to 191 but he came a cropper. Had he managed to lift 188 he could have bagged the gold. In third place, was Malaysia’s Muhamad Mohdad 328 (145+183).
 
  
  
 
 “I was troubled by a knee injury for the last three months. It troubled me even today,” said Venkat who wore a locket of his mother as inspiration. “She passed away a few years back. Now, I wear the locket on my bicep when I do the snatch and on my forehead during clean and jerk,” he said.
 
 Venkat also proudly flaunts the tattoos of his father and mother on his chest. “This is the most important medal of my career. Now I want to better this show and win a medal at the Asian Games,” he said.
 
 
 For the last few months, Sathish was down with a back injury which began to trouble him more after the weightlifting team landed in Gold Coast.
 
 “I suffered a lot of injuries after the last Games where I won the gold. At the 2015 Worlds, I got injured after the first lift and the doctors ruled me out of the competition. Normally, I start from 144 in snatch but because of the injury I did only 136 in my first lift here. In clean and jerk I had done 172,” said Sathish who won with a total of 317 kg (144+173).
 
 Two weeks back, his injury worsened and Sathish was finding it difficult to even stand. Luckily for the lifter he had the support of GoSport, an NGO based out of Bengaluru. He went through an injury management programme with the help of Varun Shetty who specially flew down to treat Sathish. “I will definitely give credit to my physios and to my coaches who believed in me. I went in with zero confidence as I could not even do squats for the last three months,” Sathish told TOI.
 
 Three days back, Sathish felt numbness and spasms in his back and this time he got help from Kiran, the physio of Kidambi Srikanth. Kiran specializes in neural compression to treat back injuries. He helped him for two days and even on Friday night he checked him and relieved him of the pain completely.
 
 
