CHENNAI: There was a handful of fans at the felicitation of the   women’s football team that won the national championship for the first time on Thursday. They requested the girls to show their skills and they readily obliged. They balanced the ball with practised efficiency, just the way they would balance life against all odds.

 Take midfielder   for example. The 23-year-old would hold the TN midfield together, assisting in attack as well as snuffing out the opposition forays. It’s no different from what she does in her everyday life. With her parents being daily labourers, the onus is on the Salem girl, who also has a brother, to provide for the family.
 
 In fact, when she returns to her hometown on Friday, she will be forced to go back to her routine of working as daily labourer. “While I am training at   ( ) here, everything seems fine. I am getting three-square meals a day and the association provides for my kits. But it doesn’t help my family. They are proud of what we achieved. But in the end they want money and playing football doesn’t help. So I have to go back and work,” Malavika told TOI on Thursday.
 
 The faces and names change but Malavika’s story resonates with every other player in the 20-member squad. In the current squad, only seven players have jobs — three Cuddalore girls, who were tsunami survivors, work for the Chennai police department — while the rest depend on SDAT’s hostel of excellence scheme. Under the plan, the government of Tamil Nadu provides free education for every girl as well as scholarships in some colleges. However, with no daily allowance, the girls need to do some odd jobs to make their ends meet. As a result, their game gets affected.
 
 The team manager Nivedha explains the plight of the players under such circumstances. “The girls join SDAT because they know that they will get three meals daily and some education. Slowly they develop a passion for the game. Now, once the college term ends and they don’t have any tournaments to play, they return home and start working. When they come back, they have to start working on their fitness and a lot of them get injured too,” Nivedha pointed out.
 
 This time, though, things were a bit different. The TN girls were completely fit as they had just taken part in the all-India University Games and the national women’s league. Incidentally, the top three positions in women’s football event belonged to  , Thiruvalluvar University and Madras University respectively.
 
 In the league, Madurai-based Sethu FC, which has given 10 footballers to the TN team, has qualified for the main round to be held in Shillong in March. Coach Murugavendan said this trend must continue if the TN team has to sustain its success. “We didn’t even have proper leagues in the state till last year. Now, there is a nine-team league in Madurai. All the members have a medical insurance for a year because of AIFF’s mandate that every player must be medically-certified to play. So things are changing for the better,” said Murugavendan.
 
 Chairman of the women’s committee and Sethu FC president Seeni Mohaideen played a big role in giving financial and logistical assistance to the players. Now, he feels that generating jobs for the women footballers is the next step to ensure that the success doesn’t remain a flash in the pan.
 
 “We don’t have the means to give players contracts but we help them financially. We have provided them medical insurance. We also want to take a few players in our Sethu team from this squad. Now, a lot of women footballers leave after getting disoriented because of few job opportunities. So I want to submit a memorandum to the chief minister and the sports minister so that these girls get some corporate jobs and continue to play. This success shouldn’t be one-off,” Mohaideen said.
 
 But it’s easier said than done and only time will tell if these girls keep winning in life, just as they did on the football field on Wednesday.
 
 
