MADURAI: Selvi (name changed) suffered two rape attempts. But it was humiliation at the hands of local police and house visits made by two abusive cops that drove her to commit suicide. Now, her brother has moved Madras high court seeking action against the erring woman sub-inspector and a head constable, blaming them for their inhuman approach towards the complainant-woman and holding them responsible for the tragic decision she had taken.

 Justice P  , before whom the matter came up for admission at Madurai bench of Madras high court, has ordered notice to Virudhunagar district superintendent of police on the matter.
 
 It was the case of the man’s counsel that one Yenavarsamy belonging to their locality had been sexually harassing his sister for a while. On February 27, 2015 he chased her, but she she managed to lock him inside a house and shout for help. 
 
 However, he was rescued by his family members who rushed to the spot and broke open the door. After the incident, the victim-woman’s father lodged a complaint with Soolakarai police, which took four days to registered a case against him.
 
 The police case did not deter Yenavarsamy, who continued to torment the woman. He threatened her and wanted her to withdraw the complaint. She, however, did not relent. On December 23, 2017, he entered into house in night and tried to sexually assault her. He was nabbed and again handed over to police.
 
 The next day morning, when the victim’s brother and others went to police to lodge a formal complaint, inspector of police Ramaraj, sub-inspector Vidhya Lakshmi and head constable Anabalagan refused even to receive the complaint. They, instead, wanted the victim’s family to withdraw the earlier complaint as well. The police personnel abused the family in filty language.
 
 Not one to give up, the family took the issue to the knowledge of higher officials. This angered the Soolakarai police, which then registered a case against the petitioner’s family itself. On January 19 this year, sub inspector   and head constable Anbalagan came to the victim’s house in the guise of holding inquiry and again abused them.
 
 Upset by police behaviour, the victim-woman did not take any food for a whole day, and then committed suicide by setting herself ablaze after dousing herself with petrol, the next day. Finally, police registered a case under IPC and Tamil Nadu Prohibition of Harassment of Women Act and arrested Yenavarsamy.
 
 The petitioner, narrating the entire sequence of events, said it was due to the attitude of these police personnel that his sister committed suicide, Hence, it is necessary to take action against the woman sub inspector and head constable, counsel argued.
 
 
