NEW DELHI: In fantasy league cricket, when it comes to the T20 format there is one name that cricket geeks will seldom overlook (and you can be assured that there will be plenty of contemplation while mouses are hovered over it) -  . Since his barnstorming first season with Royal Challengers Bangalore in 2011, Gayle has been a sure-fire fantasy league pick and the results, make no mistake, have been gleefully lapped up by countless fans the world over. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 Endearing himself to fantasy league fans in   is the very same Gayle who after a disappointing last season for RCB, with just one half-century in nine innings, was not retained or re-purchased by the Bengaluru franchise despite being their second-highest run-scorer with 3420 runs from 91 matches. On day one of the   player auction in January, Gayle had gone unsold and was then picked up for his base price of Rs 2 crore by Kings XI Punjab. It was, at least in the eyes of this writer and fantasy league geek, the mother of all steal deals. 
 
 Kings XI Punjab had already bolstered their batting by purchasing the Karnataka top-order trio of KL Rahul, Mayank Agarwal and Karun Nair, Australian opener Aaron Finch and Yuvraj Singh. Adding Gayle, the godfather of T20 batting with runs the world over, was a superb back-up opener to have. 
 
 
 
 He hit a record 18 sixes during his unbeaten 146 for Rangpur Riders - against an attack featuring Sunil Narine, Shakib Al Hasan and Shahid Afridi - in the Bangladesh Premier League final and scored 485 runs in the tournament, at a strike-rate of 176.36. Prior to that, he collected 376 runs in the Caribbean Premier League, hitting four fifties in 11 innings. 
 
 There was life in the old dog yet, as the saying goes. 
 
 Gayle did not play KXIP’s first two matches of  , but when he got a chance in the third one he made an immediate mark with 63 off 33 balls as the franchise won. You could hear critics say ‘ok, good on him, it’s one match, he can’t keep batting like that’. 
 
 Then on April 19 in Mohali, Gayle lit up the IPL with the first century of season 11 - and it was an innings that rolled back the years. At the age of 38, the Jamaican slammed an unbeaten 104 off 63 deliveries to set up KXIP’s third win of the season, and later when accepting the Man-of-the-Match award, thanked his new franchise’s director of cricket operations   for “saving the IPL”. It was his 21st century in T20s, and cool as an iced latte on a stinking hot summer day, Gayle flashed his pearly whites and gave credit, in his inimitable laid-back style, to a fellow maverick batsman who like Gayle revolutionised cricket. “I think Virender Sehwag saved the IPL by picking me (in the January auctions),'' said Gayle with a big smile. “Everyone says I have a lot to prove. I am just here to put some respect on my name.''
 
 During this century, Gayle’s clinical attack on the No 1 ranked bowler in T20Is, Afghanistan legspinner Rashid Khan, was brutal. In four successive deliveries, Gayle larruped Rashid for sixes. Asked how he combatted the wily spinner, Gayle replied that he played him as an offspinner. Go figure. 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 And then Gayle delivered   a hat-trick of wins, hitting an unbeaten 62 off 38 balls to finish a nine-wicket victory of Kolkata Knight Riders. Three matches, 229 runs at a strike-rate of 170.89 with a league-leading 21 sixes. 
 
 The cricketing audience has again sat up to take notice of Gayle’s batting prowess, and KXIP now occupy second place on the IPL leaderboard with four wins out of five matches. Their title dreams have taken wings, thanks to a player that nearly did not opt for. 
 
 And in fantasy leagues around the globe, those who had picked Gayle in each of KXIP’s matches sat back in their chairs, pumped a fist and with the other hand saluted Gayle. Salaam, Universe Boss. 
 
 
