MUMBAI: A " "-a woman not legally permitted to marry an already-married man-cannot avail of relief under the Domestic Violence (DV) Act, a sessions court has observed in a significant order. The court denied a 45-year-old "widow's" plea for monthly maintenance of Rs 50,000 from her in-laws. She had claimed that she had married the man in 1997 and lived with his wife and in-laws at their   bungalow until his death in 2003. 

 The sessions court held that considering the law, for proving a relationship in the nature of marriage, the parties must hold themselves as spouses before the world and they must be capable of entering into marriage being unmarried. 
 
 "The present relationship does not fulfil the most essential conditions. It cannot be called a relationship in the nature of marriage. The applicant doesn't deserve any protection under  ," the court said.
 
 The woman had moved her plea on August 10 last year after a magistrate's court rejected her application for relief. She told the session's court she had married the man in February 1997. She said that after living in the Ghatkopar bungalow for a few years, she moved into a flat, along with her husband, his mother, first wife and an adopted daughter. The woman said her husband and his first wife did not have children and she (complainant) had adopted her elder brother's daughter in 1990. The woman said her husband died in December 2003.
 
  She claimed that after his death, the flat was transferred to his mother, first wife and herself. She alleged that in March 2007, they forcibly took her signature on the gift deed of the property. She said her marriage was not registered and claimed relief under the DV Act as she was jobless and had no sources of income. She said her inlaws did not support her. 
 
 The sessions court said that in the appeal, the only legal issue to be considered was if a second wife could claim relief under the Act. "The condition that parties must be qualified to enter into a legal marriage, including being unmarried, is most important. For proving relationship in the nature of marriage, the parties must be otherwise capable to marry. In the present case, at the time of 'marriage' of the applicant with the man, his first wife was living. The applicant could not have legally married him as he was not unmarried," the court said.
 
 It ruled that the marriage did not follow the conditions of capability to marry as laid down by the   and hence cannot be termed relationship in the nature of marriage. 
 
 
