CHANDIGARH: Giving some respite to medical officers of Haryana government, who were intending to pursue postgraduate degree/diploma in medical sciences, the Punjab and Haryana high court has stayed the conditions through which the state had made it mandatory for them to furnish   or   of an amount equivalent to Rs 50 lakh.

 “Counsel for the petitioners contends that he will restrict his case only to the limited aspect of a clause in the new policy, which prescribes furnishing of bank guarantee or mortgage of an   equivalent to Rs 50 lakh. After hearing the learned counsel for the petitioners, we are of the opinion that there is a debatable issue to be determined in the present proceedings,” the court said.
 
 Meanwhile, the petitioners will furnish a bond but the condition of bank guarantee or mortgage of an immovable property as per the new policy shall not be insisted upon by the respondents,” observed the HC. The court has also directed the Haryana government and the state health authorities to file its reply by July 17 on the issue raised in the petition.
 
 A division bench comprising Justices Mahesh Grover and Rajbir Sehrawat passed these orders after hearing a bunch of petitions filed by Dr Satbir Singh, a medical officer posted in Rohtak district and 21 other doctors of the state health department deployed at various places in the state.
 
 Petitioners have sought directions to set aside the state government policy, issued in March, in which certain conditions were imposed by the state government on the medical officers for getting admission to the MD/MS/PG diploma and MDS for academic year 2018-19 in government aided/private medical and dental educational institutes. Their main grouse was against the state government decision of asking the doctors to furnish a bank guarantee of Rs 50 lakh for getting admission in   courses.
 
 Petitioner doctors have contended that the new policy has been imposed on them despite the fact that they are governed by the old December 23, 2011, policy, where no such condition of bank guarantee was prescribed by the state. It has also been argued by the petitioners that they had applied for NEETPG-2018 in October 2017 and so they are not covered under the new policy.
 
 
