MADURAI: Fireworks manufacturers have announced that they will continue the indefinite strike collectively under the banner of All India Federation of Fireworks Associations. They are also contemplating on intensifying the protest through various non-violent methods in following days.

 The fireworks manufacturers have called for a meeting at Sivakasi on Saturday where they discussed the future course of action as Supreme Court of India adjourned the case for another two weeks and expert panel by   submitted their study report on impact of fireworks. The umbrella federation has various associations under its fold like   Fireworks and Amorces Manufacturers Association, The Indian Fireworks Manufacturers Association, Tamilan Fireworks Manufacturers Association, Meenampatti Manufacturers Association, All India Forward Transporters, Sivakasi Dealers Association, Fireworks Agents and Raw Material Suppliers.
 
 Additional secretary of the federation, K   said that they have decided to continue the indefinite closure and next AIFFA meeting is scheduled on January 23. From January 10 onwards, they will stage different kinds of demonstrations at Sivakasi like relay hunger strike, human chain, silent procession.
 
 “We are not against any government or honourable court but these protests are to make people aware about our plight, loss of livelihood and destruction of fireworks industry”, he quipped.
 
 Commenting on the expert panel report, Mariappan said that it appears as favourable at outset but their findings are contradictory which they will take up in the court. “The report is very much adverse to the industry”, he mentioned.
 
 The manufacturers also say that they are going to send representations to Chief Minister, Prime Minister and Union Ministers of Environment, Commerce & Industry and Law. 
 
 Meanwhile, state dairy minister, K T Rajendra Bhalaji said that the government will give adequate pressure to the central government on fireworks issue. Legal measures are underway to exempt fireworks from environmental protection norms, he said. The fireworks manufacturers will be facilitated to meet the chief minister, he stated. 
 
 
