MUKTSAR: In a bid to reach out to farmers, SAD leadership projected itself as a champion of farmers’ cause while targeting the   government at the Maghi conference organised here on Sunday. The Congress and AAP, on the other hand, preferred to stay away.

 Akali leaders repeatedly raised the issue of truncated farm loan waiver and claimed that the Congress government had wooed farmers with lofty slogans but deceived them on getting power and gave only peanuts to them in the name of farm loan waiver. Party president Sukhbir Badal claimed that in the last 10 months of Congress rule in Punjab farm suicides had increased manifold.
 
 Sukhbir while addressing the rally said that there were 20 lakh farm families in the state but Punjab government had provided loan waiver to only 47,000 farmers and now has claimed to extend the waiver to 1.15 lakh families by mopping up Rs 800 crore through increased market fee on crops. On the other hand, the SAD-BJP government during the last 10 years had been providing power subsidy of Rs 6,000 crore per year and much more facilities were being provided to farmers and other sections of society, which the Congress government was taking back. 
 
 Meanwhile, only finance minister Manpreet Badal paid obeisance at the gurdwara in Muktsar and later accused SAD of not acting as per a directive of   by organizing a rally. The Akal Takht at the time of Jor mela in last week of December had asked political parties not to hold conferences at religious functions. Akali leaders, however, justified the holding of conference, saying that religion and politics were inseparable in Akali polity.
 
 The Akali Dal and   announced to take the core issue of deceiving farmers to the peasantry through ‘poll khol’ rallies in February. Sukhbir called on the people to give SAD-BJP all 13 seats in the next parliamentary elections so that we could take on Congressmen. Punjab BJP president and Union minister   too accused the Congress government of meting out injustice to farmers and every section of society. 
 
 Muktsar MLA Kanwarjit Singh Barkandi claimed that, “The Congress during assembly elections had promised sugar and tea, along with atta and dal, but now even flour and pulses are not reaching people.” 
 
 Sidhu-Manpreet as Bunty aur  
 
 Former minister Bikram Singh Majithia while taking pot-shots at local bodies minister Navjot Singh Sidhu and finance minister Manpreet Badal said both were acting as ‘Bunty and Bubly’. “This government with Manpreet at the helm instead of making Punjab debt free is making it farmer free,” he said. 
 
 Box: Chandumajra gives slogans against Amarinder
 
 Prem Singh Chandumajra, MP, gave slogans like ‘jawana, kisana te mazdooran di lalkar, captain deve saada hisab (Youth, farmers and labourers want Captain to give what he promised), and ‘Punjabia di hun uthi awaz, captain deve sanu hisab (Punjabis, now raise voice for justice).
 
 
