In keeping with its brand philosophy Aaj Likhenge Kal, Zee TV’s latest weekend prime time offering, ' ', gives viewers a glimpse into the inspiring journeys of celebrities. Candid accounts of how it all started for them, that defining moment when they found their true calling, and how they took charge of their destinies and built their core talents are bound to fascinate audiences.
 
 'JuzzBaatt' marks popular actor  's television comeback after three years. The perfect host with an endearing personality, Rajeev will set the right tone for celebrities to reveal never-before-seen aspects of their personalities.
 
 The opening episode will see the cool brother duo of Rohit and   spill the beans on each other, goof around and share fond memories of their journey in the industry. Ronit revealed that his ride has been quite a bumpy one and Rohit was quick to add that Ronit took to the bottle in a big way during his lowest phase, and half his money would go in bailing Ronit out of jail! The brothers also admitted to their wives ruling their world. In fact, Ronit went on to say that his wife   is the CEO of his house. 
 
 Rohit said, “I’m bad with money. I don’t even know where my bank is! Manasi manages everything. Once I had to write a cheque and my accountant called Manasi to check whether I am authorised to sign the cheque!” Rohit also revealed that he wants to be a director some day and so, as a goofy role-play, Rohit was asked to direct his big brother for a fun sequence, where he is seen taking a shower. And guess who played the shower? Host Rajeev Khandelwal himself! At the end of it, their adorable kids joined in. And when asked who is more scared of his wife, the kids unanimously agreed that it was Ronit.
 
 The chat show will see a volley of popular celebrities from different walks of life. Some of the faces that will feature on the show include Divyanka Tripathi, Vivek Dahiya, Sudeep Sahir, Dheeraj Dhoopar, Adaa Khan, Karanvir Bohra and Gaurav Gera.
 
 The first episode of 'JuzzBaatt' will air tonight at 7 pm on Zee TV. 
 
