AHMEDABAD: Rajani Patel, 60, a resident of Balasiya on the Naroda-Dehgam Road, was kidnapped by six persons, including three students, for a  . 

 Patel — a prominent builder and a partner in Galaxy Group — was kidnapped in his own car when he was driving home for lunch on Wednesday, at Hanspura Road.
 
  
  City crime branch rescued the builder and arrested four persons within hours. Those arrested are Bhupat Rabari (19) of Nagana village in Vadgam; Shrikrishna Nagar (20), a resident of Kubernagar; Anandkumar Tomar (22), a resident of Pushpanagar in Naroda and an employee of a private security company; and Aniket Indrajeetsingh Pal (19), a resident of Gayatri Greens on Dehgam Road, which was developed by Galaxy Group.
 
 Police sources two other accused persons are at large. “Pal, a student, is the prime accused. He knew of Patel’s affluence and conspired with the others to kidnap him. Nagar is also a student,” added a senior police official.
 
 According to complaint lodged by Patel’s son, Vipul, a site manager at Gayatri Greens, his father was driving himself home for lunch as his driver was on leave.
 
 “He soon he got a call from a friend, Vishal Patel, who had seen some people push his father into the back seat of the car near Shyam Kutir on Hanspura Road.“Vipul realized his father may have been kidnapped and this was confirmed when the ransom calls, for Rs 5 crore, came,” a police official said.
 
 “Our teams told the family to keep negotiating with the kidnappers. Crime branch then traced the calls. The kidnappers had driven up to Sirohi in Rajasthan and back, while the family kept talking to them and finally told them to collect the money,” said a senior police official. “A team led by additional DCP Rajesh Gadhiya stationed at Amirgarh check post intercepted the car and nabbed the four kidnappers. “We suspect more people are involved,” said Deepan Bhadran, DCP crime branch.The operation was carried out in tight secrecy. “Some family members also didn’t know that police were tracking the accused,” said ACP, Sector 2, Ashok Yadav.Aniket Pal, who lives at Gayatri Greens, had been recceing Patel’s movements with other accused for two days. On Wednesday, they got the opportunity to kidnap him,” added a police official.
 
 
