NEW DELHI: In a first,   will   to   to get information about any   or   of   so that it can “formulate   accordingly”. 

 Last year, variance in moderation of marks in different boards had led to a lot of confusion. “Efforts are being made to keep all boards at par,” said Maharaj K Pandit, head of the DU admissions committee that announced the plan for the 2018-19 session on Monday.
 
 While consulting the university stakeholders about the admission process that will start in the first week of April, the committee received several complaints about a “prolonged admission procedure” and “unrealistically” high cutoffs. To streamline the process and cut the duration, the committee will request college principals to “relook into their cutoffs”. 
 
 Based on the data of previous years, they would be shown how more realistic cutoffs could have ensured a faster admission process, said Pandit. “Unrealistic” cutoffs by some colleges, he added, often result in a large number of vacant seats in some subjects even after the 10th cutoff list and DU has to conduct special drives to fill them up.
 
 About reserved seats not getting enough candidates, Pandit said that while the count of girls in the OBC category was generally less than that of boys, of the 7% seats reserved for scheduled tribes (ST), only 4% were filled up. Hence, DU has decided to give OBC girls a 2% extra relaxation in their cutoffs and encourage, along with the regional commissioners, more candidates from the ST communities in the Northeast to apply in DU. Central observers will also be appointed for all colleges to ensure the admission policies for the persons with disabilities (PWD) are strictly followed.
 
 For the second year in a row, the university is undecided about the possibility of online admissions in the UG courses. “We are seeking to bring in a uniform practice for PG admissions as well,” Pandit added.
 
 DU has claimed that it will take appropriate steps to ensure that technical glitches and poor grievance redressal don’t delay the process. It will also smoothen the cancellation procedure to help students move easily from one college to another. 
 
 The university is planning to approach SCERT, kendriya vidyalayas and public schools “so that correct information is disseminated among students”, said Gurpreet Tuteja, the officer on special duty of admissions.
 
 
