NEW DELHI: Aashim, a consultant at a technology firm in  , was diagnosed with acute lymphoblastic leukaemia—an aggressive form of blood cancer—in July 2016. When all other treatment options were closed to him, he was told stem cell transplant was his only hope of survival. 

 But the 32-year-old couldn’t find a matching donor in his family. He looked for a match in his extended family, failing which he approached companies that maintain lists of donors. This too came to nought. 
 
 But the family was not giving up hope. They have now decided to conduct an event in south Delhi where people can come and give a sample of their cheek swab. Aashim hopes to meet his matching donor this way. 
 
 In this, the family is being supported by the Delhi Malayalee Association and Datri, a private company that maintains a blood stem cell donor registry.
 
 “Most people are not aware of blood stem cell transplant, so nobody turns up. They fear that they have to go under the knife when in reality the process is as simple as donating blood,” said Dony Joy, Aashim’s uncle.
  
 
 He added that for a donation, ‘human leukocyte antigen’ has to match—the possibility of which is anywhere between 1 in 10,000 to 1 in two million. 
 
 “I hope Aashim is lucky to get a match in the crowd-funding programme. This is the chance people have to save a life. Aashim is a young man. He’s bright and very gutsy. Despite the chemotherapies, he still manages to flash a smile whenever we meet him and that, I guess, makes him the most cheerful guy in the room,” said Joy. 
 
 He added, “He married his wonderful wife just last year and he surely deserves a full life. You could be his answer. Or that friend of yours. Or her friend.” 
 
 Talking about the campaign, the association members said their main motive to crowd-source is to create awareness. “We have been spreading word about the campaign through   and other social media, and are expecting over 500 people on Saturday. The process is simple, contrary to what most people think. For the donor, this is the process—walk into the clinic, go through a simple process, walk out and drive back home or to work,” said a Datri member.
 
 After donation, the donor is given injections to restore the blood stem cells, which happens in five days. 
 
 
