Trichy: The ex-servicemen facilitation desk at the Passport Seva Kendra in Trichy has been asked to relocate from the office, as the service has been crowding the entrance. As they have been asked to move out, activists opined that this may again give way to touts taking advantage of the situation and fleece gullible applicants. Earlier, at the PSK near Marakadai, a large number of touts had been fleecing gullible applicants who are mostly illiterate by charging them high for filling applications. To put an end to it, then regional passport officer S Balachandran established the facilitation counters run by ex-servicemen. After their arrival, touts vanished from the locality as the ex-servicemen only charged a nominal fee. They were shifted to the new PSK at Thillai Nagar and until last week, they were functioning from there.  The notification directed them to vacate the facilitation centre in the corridor/passage of the building and find an alternate place to continue their service. The notification stated that the decision was based on a complaint received regarding overcrowding in the front of the PSK from an applicant through the grievance portal. The manager of the PSK too had mentioned in his explanation that the huge crowd at the entry gate was owing to applicants waiting to get online application forms filled by the ex-servicemen posted near the security desk. “In the notification itself they have confirmed that a large number of applicants are benefiting from the facilitation centre. So, they should be provided with a proper place to relocate within the building. Otherwise, the applicants who are mostly semi-literate will be forced to seek private browsing centres and have to spend more money,” said Habeeb Ubaidullah, member, Trichy Intra-City Development Endeavors (TIDES). “According to a notification issued by UAE, the country requires ‘Good Conduct and Behaviour Certificate’ from police, as the main condition to receive a work visa for the purpose of work, starting from February 4, 2018. Following the new rule, the footfall at the passport office in Trichy would definitely be on the rise and would have availed the service of ex-servicemen facilitation desk. So, the passport authorities themselves should accommodate the desk by arranging a suitable place within the premise of passport office”, added Habeeb Ubaidullah.  When contacted, regional passport officer S Lingasamy said that the ex-servicemen have been helping around 100 applicants a day. Their service was a commendable. “However, based on a complaint, the notification was issued. If they find an alternate place, they can very well continue their noble cause of helping the general public for filling up the application forms and guidance regarding the documents to be produced to apply for a passport,” he added.