SANAND: Three days after   (SIA) threatened to shift their projects to Madhya Pradesh,   Industrial Development Corporation (GIDC) assured to resolve plot allotment-related issues, evaluating each case individually.   had allotted 612 plots to MSMEs in 2012 in Sanand to set up industries. However, citing absence of basic infrastructure such as road, water and power supply, till 2015, MSMEs claim they could not begin construction and consequent business operations. An annual non-utilization penalty – 2% of current land allotment price – was imposed on MSMEs that had not begun production on allotted plot within stipulated time.

 SIA representatives alleged that GIDC refused to provide lease-deed and mortgage permission documents till the penalty is paid, in absence of which they’re unable to seek bank loans for construction, purchasing machinery and related purposes. SIA had also moved the Gujarat high court in 2016 seeking to defer the date of plot allotment.
 
 Companies at the  , have already made a cumulative investment of Rs10,500 crore, approximately, said B C Warli, superintending engineer, GIDC.
 
 GIDC officials said they will evaluate cases on individual basis. “We will evaluate cases individually and based on merit, MSMEs will get mortgage permission and ‘lease-deed’ documents, albeit, upon signing an undertaking that if HC decision favours GIDC, MSMEs will be bound to pay the applicable penalty amount,” said  , divisional manager – Ahmedabad, GIDC.
 
 SIA officials postponed their meeting with Madhya Pradesh government, which had been scheduled for Friday. “After some reassurance by GIDC, we have decided to wait till the next HC hearing in the case and take decision based on the proceedings and GIDC actions,” said Ajit Shah, president, SIA.
 
 “As the case about deferring plot allotment date is sub-judice, we cannot take any decision. We have been addressing issues of industrialists who represent genuine cases and the same applies to Sanand industrial estate as well. In the past, we have completely reallocated plots to some 110 MSMEs that faced allotment-related issues,” said D Thara, vicechairman and MD, GIDCGandhinagar.
 
 GIDC officials said that 108 of the total 612 allotted plots are already operational, whereas construction is under way on over 100 plots, but 87 plots are completely unutilized. Some 121 plot owners had already surrendered their plots to the GIDC in the past.
 
 
