CHENNAI: The health of   is worse than that of others, as indicated by a recent study. the pilot study of tuberculosis among a small group of the city’s homeless adults has found the disease’s prevalence to be at least five times higher, compared to the normal population.

 Chennai along with four other metros — Mumbai, Kolkata, Bangalore and Delhi — have more than a quarter of the country’s homeless population.
 
 “The health of homeless people is affected by poor living conditions. They are malnourished and lack facilities to maintain personal hygiene. So, they are more prone to infectious diseases such as tuberculosis. If we want to bring down the TB prevalence in the community, we will have to specifically target all high risk groups,” said   director (in-charge),  .
 
 However, until now, the prevalence of the disease among homeless hasn’t been studied in detail. Scientists from the institute along with the Vector Control Research Centre, Puducherry, surveyed nearly 301 homeless individuals who lived on the pavements in and around Chennai Central, from May 2013 to December 2013. The results of the survey were published in the recent edition of the medical journal ‘Transactions of Society of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene’.
 
 During the survey, individuals aged 15 years and above were asked if they had persistent cough with or without blood for more than two weeks, chest pain or fever. If chest radiographs or symptoms were abnormal, doctors collected sputum samplesfor tests.
 
 Of the 301 individuals, scientists found that 24 (8%) people had symptoms that resembled TB, 17
 
 (5.6%) others had abnormal  , and 6 (2%) had a history of TB. The scientists estimated overall prevalence of TB among this population as 5 out of 301– which they extrapolated as 1,661in 1,00,000, compared to about 349 per 100,000 in Chennai. The individuals who tested positive were referred to the nearest RNTCP, Directly Observed Treatment Short-course (DOTS) centre.
 
 The study’s corresponding author   concluded that the prevalence of TB among homeless population is disproportionately high. “There is a need for a larger study with a larger sample size,” he said. The institute has now planned a larger study among at least 5,000 people, living on footpaths, make-shift homes and government shelters, to help formulate policies towards the reduction of TB.
 
