VIJAYAWADA: What's in a name? said   famously. Lots, it seems. Hours before its release, Pawan Kalyan-starrer 'Agnyaathavasi' was embroiled in a controversy over a song 'Kodaka  ' which was sung by the star himself and is already a chartbuster. While the Trivikram-helmed film has created a buzz across the world with over 560 theatres screening the film in the US alone, a lawyer from Vijayawada who goes by the same name,  , strongly objected to the song and lodged a complaint with Machavaram police here on Tuesday. 

 Rao said the song is in bad taste and contended that those who are named Koteswara Rao are feeling insulted and being heckled by others after the song. The advocate urged police to take necessary action as per the law for demeaning his name and demanded the song or the phrase from the song be removed before the movie is released.
 
 
 
 
 Agnyaathavasi released on Tuesday with 1am shows across AP, which saw fans fighting for a seat. Ticket rates witnessed never-before madness. Each ticket was bought in excess of ₹50,000 in some places. Many fans, who thronged INOX theatre at Gandhi Nagar in Vijayawada, lambasted theatres for selling tickets at exorbitant rates. They alleged the tickets are being sold in the range of ₹1,000- ₹1,500 in the black market. Almost all theatres across 13 districts have stopped screening other films to make way for Kalyan’s film. An executive member of Pawan Kalyan fans’ association Jagadeesh said the film will break all records in Telugu film industry. “Agnyaathavasi is the first movie in the history of Telugu cinema to open with seven shows in a day in towns and mandals,” he said.
 
 Earlier, Koteswara Rao appealed to those named... ehm! Koteswara Rao to lodge complaints against movie producer Radhakrishna, director Trivikram, hero Kalyan, song writer Bhaskarabatla and music director Anirudh Ravichandran. He went on to say he would take up a statewide protest with all those named Koteswara Rao. He said, “Even my senior lawyer’s name is Koteswara Rao, who is feeling bad at the way the name is being misused.”
 
 Machavaram police said they received the complaint but are yet to register a case. Inspector K Umamaheswara Rao said they were examining the complaint.
 
 
 
 
