GURUGRAM: The Class XI student, accused of murdering the seven-year-old   studying in Class II of the same school, was not good in studies and, thus, always looked for an opportunity or made plans to get the exams postponed,   sleuths have claimed.

 The CBI probe also revealed that even before slitting the throat of the Class II boy inside a washroom on the campus of a CBSE school in   on September 8 last year, the   had made several unsuccessful attempts to kill someone and get PTMs and exams cancelled.
 
 In its   filed before additional sessions judge JS Kundu on Monday, the investigating agency listed accounts of several students and teachers, who highlighted instances of the juvenile allegedly asking his classmates or friends to bring poison or a knife to kill someone to derail a parent-teacher meeting (PTM) or delay an exam.
 
 Academic records of the juvenile obtained from the school show that he was indeed not good in studies and managed below average grades in exams, lending credence to the claims about the juvenile’s exam phobia. While he had secured a CGPA of 5.2 in the Class IX exam, he had received 6 in the Class X exam conducted by CBSE.
 
 Even in his statement to the central agency, the juvenile had admitted that his performance in the school was below average and he was afraid of exams and PTMs. He was scared that his teachers might complain against him to his parents during the meetings.
 
 The chargesheet highlighted the account of one of the juvenile’s friends from the music class. The friend told CBI officials that on a July day last year, he was wearing his shoes after coming out of the music room when the juvenile came to him and asked him to bring poison or a knife as he wanted to kill someone.
 
 When he refused, the juvenile asked another friend to bring poison as he wanted to get PTM as well as the exams cancelled. The second boy also refused to be a part of the plan.
 
 
 
  
 
 Unable to cancel the July meeting, the juvenile made another attempt in August. A group of students from the same class revealed that just before the exams in August, the juvenile had come to them and told that “don’t prepare for the exams and the same are going to be postponed”. This time, he allegedly approached a Class IX student and another friend for assistance just a few days before the scheduled PTM, but in vain.
 
 Again, ahead of the PTM on September 19, the juvenile asked some of his classmates to bring poison. He was allegedly planning to put poison in the water bottles of some children or in the water tank to kill someone. At least five classmates of the juvenile had corroborated this. They said they all were sitting on the front bench of the class when the juvenile came to them and revealed his plan. The students claimed that the juvenile had even offered them money for bringing poison.
 
 The chargesheet also highlighted, through the narration of one of the students, how the juvenile, while studying in Class IX, had brought poison to the school and consumed it after mixing it with his water. He had put the blame on one of his classmates and cousin brother (also student of the same class) then.
 
 In February 2016, he had managed to avoid the mock exams by scripting a fake story. He had alleged someone had mixed some poisonous substance in his water bottle and that he was feeling drowsy after drinking the water. Subsequently, he was admitted to hospital for 3-4 days.
 
 A teacher told CBI the juvenile appeared to be lazy and inattentive in classes. According to her, he used to get annoyed very soon and never had any permanent friend. The juvenile was very keen about music and, thus, she had suggested his parents to allow him to pursue the field. She also revealed that his parents were worried about his education and his mother used to cry in most of the PTMs.
 
 
