KOLKATA: KOLKATA:   Congress has gained an unprecedented stranglehold on Bengal’s three-tier village administrative system, gaining 95% of zilla parishad seats, 90% of panchayat samiti seats and 73% of gram panchayat seats that went for polling and for which results were declared on Thursday night.

 
 
 More than a third of the seats didn’t see any contest and the Calcutta High Court stayed announcement of those results in a directive last week. If and when those results are announced, Trinamool’s victory percentage may improve as most of the “walkover winners” are, according to officials, likely to be Trinamool candidates.
 
 However, in a clear indication of growing dissent against the ruling Trinamool,   made significant inroads into villages across Alipurduar, Jalpaiguri, Jhargram, Purulia and parts of West Midnapore and even Birbhum, which stood out for the large number of uncontested seats, where saffron party candidates won more than 20% gram panchayats that went to vote.
 
 All the districts where BJP has performed well have something in common: a substantial tribal population. The consolidation of anti-Trinamool votes behind BJP shows this bloc can disturb the settled political hierarchy in at least three Lok Sabha seats named after the districts (Alipurduar, Jalpaiguri and Jhargram).
 
 Trinamool chief Mamata dedicated the massive victory to “the people of Bengal and martyrs’ families”, while the opposition called the 2018 panchayat election “a farce”. But, either way, Bengal seems to be headed for a bipolar fight in the 2019 Lok Sabha election as BJP has successfully emerged as party number two in most of the districts. CPM and Congress stand virtually decimated even in their strongholds, finishing the race as fringe players fighting for third and fourth places, which is a firming up of the trend seen in August 2017 civic polls.
 
 Trinamool has successfully decimated Congress in Murshidabad and taken a massive lead in Malda and North Dinajpur — all erstwhile Congress strongholds — which means it will be in pole position in as many as six Lok Sabha seats (Murshidabad, Behrampore, Jangipur, Malda Uttar, Malda Dakshin and Raiganj) next year.
 
 Trinamool has also maintained its stranglehold over the districts around Kolkata — North and South 24-Parganas, Howrah and Hooghly — though its juggernaut did stumble in pockets, like Singur in Hooghly and Bhangar in South 24-Parganas.
 
 BJP increased it tally from eight gram panchayat seats to 28 in Hooghly’s Singur as prominent land stir leader Naba Kumar Ghosh lost. In Bhangar’s Kashipur, five of the nine Independent (Naxal-backed Save Live Livelihood Environment Protection Committee) candidates, who created electoral history by filing their nomination on WhatsApp, won. But their bete noire, Trinamool strongman Arabul Islam, now in police custody, won the zilla parishad seat; his family members, too, won panchayat samity seats.
 
 Independents caused some headache for trinamool in Coochbehar’s Dinhata block as well. But, here, they were backed by Trinamool Youth Congress and put up a strong fight against official Trinamool candidates, wresting gram panchayat and panchayat samiti seats and heading for a win in a zilla parishad seat.
 
 The counting process saw violence, a common occurrence right from the day of the panchayat poll notification on March 31. A Trinamool worker was caught on camera stamping ballot papers within the counting centre in Nadia’s Majdia when he found that the CPM candidate was leading in the gram panchayat seat. The cat-and-mouse game between cops, who burst teargas shells, and party workers — armed with bombs — was perhaps a fitting finale to an election season that saw 27 people being killed from across the political spectrum.
 
