GUNTUR: Guntur Municipal Corporation decided to keep all the vacant open sites in the city free of unkempt shrubs and drain waters before monsoon. Before launching the crackdown, civic authorities have started gathering information about land   in the city. 

 On seeing that open spaces are the breeding grounds for mosquitoes and seasonal diseases,   commissioner   has made an   and hefty penalties will be imposed on the violators. He set a deadline to complete the massive clean up operation by May 31. 
 
 All the three crucial wings of the GMC, health, engineering and revenue sections were involved in launching the combat against the vacant sites in the city. The health wing staffers will complete the survey of open sites in their respective divisions in next three days. Soon, they will send notice to the   owners, asking them to clear the unkempt shrubs in their plots and fill the low-lying sites with additional gravel. The owners will be given a week to comply with the instructions of the GMC.
 
 The health wing will conduct a re-survey and make ready the list of the open sites, which are not cleaned by the owners as per the instructions of the GMC. The engineering wing will also take action in this regard. The assistant executive engineers have been directed to engage private JCBs to clear the vacant sites identified by the health wing. Besides, they will also be responsible to fill the low-laying plots with gravel and on the basis of the amount spent to clean the plot, GMC revenue wing will impose penalty on the land owners.
 
  GMC will collect the entire penalty amount, along with the vacant land tax, when the land owner approaches to the civic body with a house construction plan. However, civic authorities are planning to block the registration of all the sites, which were cleaned up by GMC, till the collection of the penalties. 
 
 “The idea to block the registration is to make the present landlord accountable for not following the GMC’s instructions,” said a senior official of GMC. If the registration is allowed, the final land owner, who would approach the GMC with a building plan, might be unnecessarily penalised for the fault of the present owner, he added. 
 
 
