NEW DELHI: India continued to go strong at the Commonwealth Games 2018   events with   bringing the country its third gold medal, in the men's 77-kg category and extending India's medal tally to five. He finished with a total effort of 317 kg (144kg snatch+173kg clean and jerk). Such was his domination that Sathish did not even require a third attempt at clean and jerk.

 
 
 
 Sathish's snatch attempts comprised impressive lifts worth 136kg, 140kg and 144kg. However, it was the clean and jerk section where he impressed the most, starting with a successful lift of 169 kg and bettering it with 173kg. England's Jack Oliver secured silver with a combined effort of 312 kg, followed by Australia's Francois Etoundi (305 kg), who in a freak incident, tore his left bicep after the final lift.
 
 
 
 Sathish confirmed his lead over Oliver by lifting 169kg in his first clean and jerk attempt. Adding four kilos more in his second attempt, Sathish bagged the top position, and once Oliver failed to lift 171 kg in two attempts, a gold medal for Sathish was confirmed.
 
  
  
 
 Back in Chennai, Sathish's achievement left his parents teary-eyed. "I spoke to Sathish on Friday evening just before he was about to sleep. He asked us to pray for him. We went to a nearby temple to offer our prayers and I am pleased with my son's efforts," Sivalingam, Sathish's father told TOI on Saturday. "Sathish has once again put Vellore on the international map and made us all proud. He wasn’t in the best possible shape as he had injured his thigh during the Nationals but he gave a good fight and delivered the goods."
 
 Sathish, winner of the inaugural Mahindra Scorpio Times of the India (TOISA) Weightlifter of the Year award in 2015, claimed gold in the men's 77kg event at the Commonwealth Senior Weightlifting Championships held in Australia, with a total effort of 320 kg (148kg in snatch, 172 kg in clean & jerk). In the previous Commonwealth Games too, in Glasgow, Sathish had won gold, hence, becoming the first ever male Indian weightlifter to win gold in two different editions of the Commonwealth Games.
 
 In 2016, Sathish qualified for the Rio Olympics but finished 11th despite a good showing that saw him lift the best weight of 329 kg (148 kg snatch and 181 kg clean and jerk). In 2017, Sathish won gold at the Commonwealth Weightlifting Championships. He had won the same event in 2013 as well.
 
 Sathish started training under his father, Sivalingam - a former national-level weightlifter - at the age of 13 and was later enrolled in the Atlas Weightlifting Training Centre next to his home, where he underwent rigorous training.
 
