PATIALA:`: The state of   has seen decline in number of cases pertaining to burning of wheat residue by 25% this year. 

 As many as 1,465 cases of fire in agricultural land have been identified till now by satellite imageries by Haryana Space Application Centre (HARSAC), which has been engaged by the state pollution control board to keep tab on  . 
 
 However, the district-level teams that are monitoring incidents of stubble burning have been able to identify as many as 366 cases of burning of crop residue with the help of remote sensing data in the fields.
 
 Out of these 366 cases, majority of these have been reported from   district that recorded 248 cases alone, followed by 69 cases in Jind, 19 in   and 10 cases each in Faridabad and Panipat, besides some others.
 
 Haryana had also developed a mobile app for reporting crop residue burning cases and the application can be downloaded from a link provided on HARSAC website. The officials of pollution board claimed that by using this app any official or anybody from the public would be able to report the burning of crop residue anywhere across the state.
 
 Member secretary of the pollution control board S Narayanan said, “We have collected Rs 1.8 lakh in fines from 64 cases of stubble burning while penalties from other violators is also being collected. We have taken the initiative of a mobile app that would minimise toxic smog in or around the state, thereby minimising respiratory diseases. We have recorded 25% reduction in cases of stubble burning in comparison to last year till date.”
 
 Notably, last year the Haryana government had recorded 2,017 cases of wheat residue burning whereas this year the pollution board in the state have recorded 1,465 cases with the help of satellite. 
 
 Haryana Additional Chief Secretary last week had held a video conference with all the Deputy Commissioners of the state and requested them to increase their vigil in countering the stubble burning. The state government had already announced a reward for the village Panchayats that will pass a resolution to not to burn stubble in the village and implement the same.
 
 
