CHAKAR(JAGRAON): At a time when Punjab finds itself helpless in checking farm suicides, there is a village about 60kms from Ludhiana where   have managed to keep themselves out of the deadly debt trap for years together. Hence, nobody even thinks of taking the extreme step.

 With NRIs contributing nearly Rs 45 lakh to a cooperative society set up to help farmers in the village about six years back, no farmer at Chakar village in Jagraon has committed suicide out of indebtedness to date, say locals.
 
 The contributions made by NRIs have helped in the construction of storehouses for storing fertilizers and acquire manure and other chemicals meant for crop protection.
 
 At present, the society is getting a complex constructed in the village to park tractors. “We formed the society about six years back. Since then, with the help of NRIs, mainly Sidhu brothers, we have bought two tractors. We have also got agricultural implements worth nearly Rs 40 lakh,” said  , president of the cooperative society.
 
 Farmers in this village only take small crop loans as they don’t have to little for tractor services and even fertilisers.
 
 “The two tractors with our village society have ensured that nobody takes a loan to buy the vehicle. Also, since fertilisers are available in the village, farmers don’t have to pay for the transportation of inputs. This way the cost of production has come down and returns have gone up. So farmers are happy here,” said Chamkaur Singh, a prominent resident of the village.
 
 He said there are around 2,500 farmers in the village. “Out of these, 80% are small farmers. Still, we have not faced debt-related issues,” he added.
 
 The department of cooperative societies is all praise for the society in Chakar. “Chakar is the village where NRIs have done a lot of work; the cooperative society in the village is one of the best in the district. It is well organised and serving farmers in the best possible way. We haven’t heard of any suicide by farmers due to debt in that village,” said Chamkaur Singh, assistant registrar, cooperative societies.
 
 “We wanted to have a complex where we can store fertilizers, pesticides and parking space for tractors and office. Coming to our aid, NRIs have contributed about Rs 45 lakh for construction of the complex.”
 
 “The new complex will have offices, meeting hall, salesman room, kitchen, bathroom and shed for tools and manures. The construction work of the same has already started and hopefully will be completed in next three to four months,” Sukhminder Singh said.
 
 Members said there are seven such societies in the block and their society is among the best after   and Rasoolpur Malla.
 
 Box: Resources
 
 Canada-based NRIs and brothers of late NRI Ajmer Singh Sidhu, who belonged to the village, contribute heavily for the society. Some 150 NRIs from European countries, Canada, United States also contribute for the village development and its cooperative society. 
 
 
