VADODARA: Inaction by   resulted in another   of   (MSU) on Sunday morning.

 Days after the   witnessed a clash between   including those from Rajasthan and Manipur, over an alleged racial slur, a student hailing from Rajasthan was allegedly assaulted by six Manipuri students in the early hours of Sunday.
 
 The student identified as Anshuman Singh Shaktawat was taken to SSG Hospital for treatment where he lodged complaint against six persons. Of the six accused, four have been identified as Ashanba, Rahul, Kundan and Priynanda. Shaktawat has alleged that the four are student of MSU.
 
 Shaktawat told the police that the six accused attacked him to avenge the clashes that took place in the wee hours of March 2. He said that during the past ruckus he had only tried to intervene between the two groups but the accused thought that he was also involved in the violence.
 
 The incident took place at 5.30 am on Sunday, when Shaktawat was sleeping alone in room 73 of Manubhai Mehta Hall. The six accused barged in and started to beat him with an iron rod and cricket bat. The two unidentified persons also kicked and punched Shaktawat, said police. As he was being thrashed, Shaktawat shouted for help hearing which students from neighbouring rooms rushed to his help. Before the two groups could again enter into a brawl, the six accused fled from there.
 
 Shaktawat, who was seriously injured, was rushed to SSG Hospital by his friends where the police took his statement. Later, the hostel warden checked the CCTV camera footages in which the six accused are seen entering the hall. The footages were handed over to the police for investigations. Though police have not arrested anyone, sources said that two accused were picked up for questioning.
 
 It was in the wee hours of March 2, when a group of youth having their domicile of Rajasthan had hurled racial abuses against some students hailing from Manipur after which the clash had broken out. But, besides locking two rooms so that nobody can live there illegally, no action was taken by the warden. “When the ruckus had taken place in the past we could not identify who all were involved,” said Sanjay Solanki, warden of Manubhai Mehta Hall. 
 
 After the incident, the traffic police, later during the day, towed all motorcycles parked outside the Manubhai Mehta Hall.
 
 
