NAGPUR: The story of  , who received the ‘First Ladies’ award from President   on January 20 has more to it. One among six sisters, she was encouraged by her father, an employee with WCL at Chandrapur, to satisfy her curiosities regarding mines.

 “Once there was a fire in the mines and my father was gone for three days. I was scared but also wanted to know what exactly happened and from that time onwards I began studying about mines,” she told TOI during a chat. Chandrani received the award for being the first woman mining engineer in the country.
 
 Observing her academic bent, Chandrani’s father tried to get her enrolled for a diploma in mining and mining survey after Std X. But problems began when she was not given admission as NU had a clause for not taking girl students in mining stream.
 
 “I appealed to the high court saying that I could not be denied education and was granted permission to join the courses,” says Chandrani, who finished her engineering from the mining department at  .
 
 “I was the only girl at the diploma and engineering courses and would hear remarks like, ‘ab toh mining bhi ghate main gayi kyonki ladkiyan mining karengi’,” she says. Chandrani gave a befitting reply when she topped her department and stood third in the university. “But the only placement made from our department went to a boy as the company did not wish to hire women,” says Verma, who is now a senior scientist at Central Institute of Mining & Fuel Research [CSIR-CIMFR].
 
 When jobs became hard to get, Chandrani began teaching at her alma mater. “A temporary vacancy came up at CMIR in Dhanbad where I was interviewed by  , who was making this appointment for one of his projects. From among all the candidates, he selected me and later when I asked, he told me that a girl who comes to Dhanbad for this post should be given a chance,” she says, adding that permanent employment happened in 2004.
 
 An MTech from VNIT in 2006 on hard roof management gave her the subject of her thesis. “But everything took a back seat as I got married in 2007. I wanted to do my Phd from West Virginia in the US, but family issues did not permit,” she says.
 
 Later in 2011, she registered for her Phd in ‘web pillar design in high wall mining’ which she completed in three-and-a-half years. “I used to work very hard. I bought coal samples, cut them, prepared and tested these specimens. My focus on it was total as in my office too we were working on this project,” she says.
 
 Verma received Hirankani award in 2006 instituted by DD Sahyadari. “But I don’t know how I got selected for the President’s award and was very surprised when I got a call from the ministry of women and child welfare. There were 250 names out of which 112 got the award,” she says.
 
 “I think my work is significant as this is a male dominated field. I got into mining not for gender equality but to satisfy my curiosity. Today, my work impacts the industry in the spheres of productivity with safety,” says Verma, mother of a nine-year-old son, adding that she constantly strives to strike a balance between her professional and personal life.
 
 
