KOLKATA: Inspired by the nostalgic rivalry between two football giants — Mohun Bagan and   — of Kolkata, the Bengali diaspora in the UK will organize a fan football tournament at London’s   on July 22.

 Christened   — on the lines of IFA Shield Kolkata — the concept not only taps the Bengali love for football but also rekindles the eternal Bangal-Ghoti fight that the GenY (especially in the UK) is almost unaware of. The event will also include an ilish-chingri food festival. Only, IFA here stands for the   of the UK.
 
 Three East Bengal and three Mohun Bagan fan teams will play round robin to decide the finalists. But there is a twist to the tournament — matches will be played only between East Bengal and Mohun Bagan fan teams. An East Bengal fan team will never play another East Bengal team. The same goes for Mohun Bagan fan teams. The 20-minute games, split in two halves, will have a five-minute break.
 
 “We are pushing the otherwise not very gym-going diaspora to the football grounds,” said Anirban Mukhopadhyay, key member of the London Sarad Utsav (LSU) that is organizing the event as part of its   that took off last year to promote Bengal’s cultural heritage in England. The event has National Health Service, UK, as its partner.
 
 The teams have been named after football legends. The three Mohun Bagan sides have been named after Sailen Manna, Shivdas Bhaduri and Sudip Chatterjee and East Bengal teams after Christian Junior, Ahmed Khan and Krishanu Dey.
 
 The gala event seems to have caught the diaspora’s imagination. Weekly practice sessions have started at Slough, Hounslow and Harrow. “The opportunity (of playing football wearing jerseys of their favourite clubs) has evoked much excitement,” said Londoner Samrat Chakraborty. Among those he’ll play against is 16-year-old Booklyn Don Mapfumo, who plays for Chelsea U17 as the main striker, and is now in the Mohun Bagan team. Each team will have a player from the EU.
 
 “Each team has eight players, even as 14 names can be registered in each team. A team must have two children in the 13-16 age group. The teams can register maximum three non-Bengali or EU or British players, but can play only two at a time,” said researcher Abhishek Dutta, who will be going from Belgium to be part of the “football festival”.
 
