KOCHI: Even while Congress is quite critical of Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB), Congress-ruled Kochi corporation, it seems, has no trouble in adopting finance minister TM Thomas Isaac's idea while mobilizing funds. 

 The budget, presented by deputy mayor  , moots KIIFB-like municipal bonds to generate revenue for various development projects. The bond will be given to investors assuring profits with tax exemption. The funds thus mobilized would be used for implementing various projects, including drinking water distribution system, garbage disposal, construction of roads and bridges, traffic, etc.
  
  
 Another proposal for mobilizing revenue is value capture financing (VCF), which envisages collecting certain sum, based on appreciation in the land value due to any development (like Metro rail). This fund would be used for arranging infrastructure in less-developed areas. 
 
 "Both proposals require nod from the state government before implementation. We have selected Crisil, a firm empanelled by the Union government, for facilitating various approvals required for these projects," Vinod said.
 
 Special surcharge will be charged from hospitals depending on size, number of rooms and revenue. "Many hospitals are charging room rent that is equivalent to that of four-star hotels. The only fee we get from hospitals is the registration fee, which comes to just Rs 1,500," Vinod said.
 
 Surcharge will be sought from all the hotels based on stars. Service charge for Union government establishments is another proposal. As per rules, central government firms are exempted from building tax. So, local bodies are losing a big amount. Now, the plan of the corporation is to seek service charge from such institutions, which may come up to 75% of the buildings tax. "There are around 4,000 buildings in Cochin Port Trust. There are other central PSUs like  , railways, Indian Navy, BSNL and CMFRI. So, we expect a revenue generation of Rs 8 crore through this route," Vinod said.
 
 Enhancement of revenue is expected through hike in garbage treatment fee paid by the local bodies and expediting collection of employment tax.
 
 According to opposition councillors, there are no concrete measures for increasing revenue and betterment of the city. "The corporation is still unable to collect existing taxes properly. Then, how could they increase revenue through new taxes. Moreover, many new fund mobilization proposals require government nod. We don't expect the proposals would work as it may end up in legal tangles," said  , leader of opposition, corporation. "The own fund of the corporation has been steady at Rs 140 crore for the past few years. They couldn't increase it over the years," Antony said.
 
 According to councillor  , the budget was presented by violating government order. "As per the government order, the plan fund projects cleared by district planning council should have attached to the budget. But, corporation is yet to submit the plan fund projects to DPC. So, the budget would be valid only if it is renewed, including the plan fund projects, after getting DPC approval," he said.
 
 
