TRICHY: The railway board’s direction to zonal railways to adopt the Konkan railway system of track maintenance from April 1 will be implemented on the   –   and Salem – Attur sections under  .

 However, workers’ unions have expressed concern over the safety of tracks if the new system is implemented. This was because they feared that two-third of track maintainers stood to lose their jobs in the new scheme of things. They say that track maintenance workers inspect and repair railway tracks, bridges, tunnels and viaducts. However, as a cost cutting measure, railways was in the process of minimising the number of track maintainers posts coming under engineering department, railway sources said. 
 
 Complying with the instructions of the meeting held in Delhi from November 10 to 12 last, the new system should be implemented at least in two sections in each railway zone. Accordingly, the assistant divisional engineer of Attur in Salem division and Karaikudi of Madurai division were identified for implementing KRCL ( ) system of track maintenance. Railway officials said that out of 120 track maintainers coming under each senior section engineer, 58 to 78 (based on the area of section) track maintainers had become surplus staff. The railway board had identified low revenue earning and weaker sections to implement the system. In future, it would be in force on new lines and sections where gauge conversion takes place, they added.
 
 D Manoharan, deputy general secretary of DREU, said that as per the new system at least 65,000 track maintainers might lose their positions. Though they would be inducted in other group ‘D’ level posts, there would not be any recruitment for this post in future, he said. Moreover, the new system could only be implemented in Konkan Railway. The infrastructure along the entire 760km track in Konkan Railway has been maintained excellently. The entire track was equipped with facilities to withstand rain, flood and soil erosion which required few employees to maintain. In case of Southern Railway, it would not work out, he alleged.
 
 When contacted, divisional railway manager of Trichy, Uday Kumar Reddy, said that as per the decision taken by the railway board, all railway zones had been asked to implement the scheme. In Southern Railway, one or two divisions had been asked to experiment it and if found good, it would be implemented in all divisions, he said.
 
 “The numbers of vacancies is quite large. That is the reason why, instead of recruiting new candidates — or till the time recruiting would be done — railway board has decided to adopt the new method. Moreover, from safety angle, there will not be any lapse by adopting the new system,” he added
 
 
