Actress Kangna Ranaut is rumoured to play the role of Lucknowite  , the world’s first female amputee to scale  , in a film that will be produced by   of 'The Lunchbox' and 'D-Day' fame. Word is also that Amitabh Bachchan will be playing the role of Arunima's mentor in the film. 

  
    (BCCL) 
 
 Arunima Sinha was a national level Volleyball player who, while on a train journey from Delhi to Lucknow, was pushed out of a running train by robbers when she tried fighting them off. As a result of the injuries sustained in the fall, one of her legs was amputated. The girl, not losing hope, then trained to be a mountaineer and scaled the world’s highest peak in May 2013 followed by several others including Kosciuszko in Australia, Elbrus in Europe, Kilimanjaro in Africa, and Aconcagua in Argentina.
 Arunima then wrote her life story in a book, the rights of which have been bought by Vivek Rangachari. The film is expected to go on floors soon and shooting will take place in Lucknow and other cities which are yet to be decided.
 
  
  (L-R) Vivek Rangachari and   look on as Arunima signs the agreement for her biopic (BCCL) 
 
 Arunima, who’s been operated upon recently and is convalescing at home, is excited at the prospect of a film being made on her. Earlier, she had been in talks with actor-producer-director Farhan Akhtar and producer Ritesh Sidhwani but things couldn’t work out between them. "Because of Farhan (Akhtar), I have become quite popular in Bollywood. That’s how Vivek Rangachari got to know of me and approached me for the film. Initially I wasn’t saying yes, but Vivek ji was relentless in his efforts and finally we signed the deal in the presence of Ram Naikji, governor, UP, in November last year," says Arunima, adding, “I had been approached by a lot of people from Bollywood, including  , for buying the rights to my book, but I had said no to all of them. Ek experience jo hua tha, usse mere mann mein Bollywood ke liye bahut achha opinion nahi raha tha. But when I talked to Vivek ji and then met him, I was convinced that this film that he will make will be a very good one."
 Rangachari visited Lucknow last year and met Arunima and the duo then signed the deal for a film on her. "Arunima's story is one of courage and conviction. Of how one can beat all odds to be successful. Her’s is a very inspiring story and Arunima is a wonderful person. When I read and got to know about her, I knew that this was one story that I wanted to make a movie on. There’s so much for the people, especially the youth to learn from, from Arunima’s life. What she has achieved is incredible and she’s an inspiration for all," says Rangachari, who is expected to visit Lucknow next month to scout for locations for the shoot. Ask him if Kangana will indeed be playing Arunima on screen, and Vivek says, "The casting is still to be done so I can't comment on it yet, but talks are on with several actors."
 
  
  Arunima Sinha and Farhan Akhtar when the two met in Lucknow in 2015 to discuss her biopic (BCCL) 
 
 Arunima, meanwhile, is kicked about the 'Queen' actress playing her on screen. "Kangana read the script and liked it very much and has said yes to the project, as far as I know. In fact, she wanted to direct the film too, but I want someone else to direct the film. She is a fantastic actress and I would love her to play me on screen. She is such a passionate actress and I myself want her to play my character because only a passionate actress and person can depict the trials and tribulations I have faced to achieve all this in life," says Arunima adding, "I have full faith in Vivek and Kangana that the film they will make will be excellent and very inspiring."
 Arunima goes on to add, "With Ritesh Sidhwani things didn't work out because they wanted to make the film in their own way without consulting with me. Now, I can’t have a film made on me where my opinion or advice is not sought. But things with Vivekji are very different. He is seeking my approval, advice and feedback on everything. I am fully involved in this project right from the start."
 
 
 
