SURAT: Implementation of the Goods and Services Tax (GST) and concurrent impact of recession have not only hit the power loom sector hard, but even the textile processing sector is feeling the pinch. 

 Majority of textile dyeing and printing mills have reduced production of finished fabrics by almost 40 per cent in the last fortnight due to recession, money crisis and weavers drastically reducing production of grey fabrics. 
 
 Industry sources said textile sector is on the brink of collapse due to the negative impact of GST. The cost of raw material required for processing of grey fabrics has shot up by almost 30 per cent. Besides, textile mill owners were compelled to increase wages of textile workers on May 1. Most of the textile workforce moved out of the city to attend marriage and other social events in their hometowns. The workers who stayed back were demanding wage hike as they had to work full-time to meet production needs in the factories. 
 
 At present, textile processors have been facing severe liquidity crunch as textile traders have been delaying payments up to 100 days for various reasons, including recession, slowdown in fabric demand etc. 
 
 South Gujarat Textile Processors’ Association (SGTPA) president Jitu   said, “Production of finished fabrics in textile processing mills has come down by almost 40 per cent. There is a serious shortage of cash rotation in the market. We are not getting cash money for paying wages to workers. The cost of raw materials has appreciated by almost 30 per cent.” 
 
 Vakharia added, “The situation is going to remain the same till Diwali festival. Power loom weavers are operating their units for just eight hours, which means the production of grey fabrics will come down to just 1.5 crore metre per day.” 
 
 A textile mill owner   said, “The future of textile sector looks grim. The payment crisis is so serious that we can’t even think of operating the factories. This was the reason why the processors increased job charges by almost 15 per cent to cope up with the losses.” 
 
 
