Here are the women who have made it to the maiden Bangalore Times 15 Most Desirable Women on Television 2017. These dazzling beauties look every bit the women that all households would like to welcome with open arms...

 
 
 
  The demure and coy Radha from the daily Radha Ramana
 
 Married to Pradeepa
 
  Come-hither eyes, coupled with an innocence that makes her every man's dream woman
 
  
  
 
 
 
  She’s the famed snake-woman of the small screen. With Nagakannike, she became a household face. She also has a few films to her credit
 
  We’re curious, she doesn’t share much...
 
  Long legs; a svelte body and an extremely sassy personality
 
  
  
 
 
 
  She’s every household’s gombe and that’s precisely what her character in Lakshmi Baramma is. She’s the daughter of makeup artiste Ramakrishna and sister of actress Sonu Gowda
 
  Married to Chandan
 
 She’s spunky and has a million dollar smile, along with girl-next-door vibes
 
  
  
 
 
 
  If there is one person who can get everyone on the small screen excited with her way with words, it has to be Anushree, who is arguably one of the most loved anchors
 
  Single, from what we hear 
 
  She’s a pint-sized pataka!
 
  
  
 
 
 
  She’s the sweetheart of the small screen. She forms one half of San-Sid, the famed jodi of Agnisakshi, in which she plays Sannidhi
 
  Single, but every woman’s dream daughter-in-law
 
  She’s demure, dainty and delicate, which makes her quite the loved woman on the small screen
 
  
  
 
 
 
  She’s the classic example of a survivor in showbiz. From being in the popular serial Akka, she went on to have a memorable stint in Bigg Boss Kannada and is now doing films
 
  Single, although she’s open about her past relationships
 
  The quintessential beautiful desi girl
 
  
  
 
 
 
  She’s been part of the small screen, but her stint on Bigg Boss Kannada propelled her into the limelight. She’s slated to be part of an epic serial next
 
  Very single, people claim
 
 She’s cute and yet can be the hot diva, which works to her advantage
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  She did a few films before she found both fame and familiarity with the audience on the small screen with the daily, Naagini
 
  Single, but we wonder why!
 
 She’s got dreamy eyes and a face that lights up when she smiles
 
  
  
 
 
 
  She’s the much-loved Puttagowri of Puttagowri Maduve. She recently made her debut on the big screen, too
 
 Single, but is she ready to mingle?
 
  The quintessential Indian beauty
 
  
  
 
 
 
  She’s a familiar face on the small screen and is currently the lead actress in Vidya Vinayaka
 
 It’s a secret, it seems
 
  A cutesy demeanour, coupled with luscious locks
 
  
  
 
 
 
  After a popular stint on Tamil TV and a film release, Nikhila is now popular, thanks to the mythological serial Shani
 
  Married to Suman Jadugar
 
 Her child-like smile and expressive eyes are a big draw
 
  
  
 
 
 
  She is the famed onscreen wife to Srujan Lokesh on the comedy show Majaa Talkies. She’s been on TV for a while, but her Bigg Boss Kannada stint played a catalyst in her career
 
  Married to Narik Appachu
 
  She’s a livewire with an extremely attractive smile
 
  
  
 
 
 
  A known face on the small screen, she is now well-known, thanks to Kulavadhu
 
  She’s been extremely quiet about this, we’re told
 
  Her curly locks and seductive eyes set her apart from many of the heroines
 
  
  
 
 
 
  She’s had her tryst with showbiz for some time and is now popular, thanks to Padmavathi
 
  Single, ready to mingle?
 
  Her slender frame and cascading mane
 
  
  
 
 
 
  She is famous as one half of the Ramachari twins and was seen in the serial Eradu Kanasu
 
  Keeps it low-key
 
  Her cheerful, energetic personality
 
