LUDHIANA: The nexus of the supply of intoxicating pills in the city starts from Baddi in Himachal Pradesh — where several pharmaceutical companies are established — and spreads across   through Ludhiana-based pharmacists and transporters. The information, which has come out in the initial police investigation, has raised a question mark on the ignorance of the authorities. The local police are also planning to raise the issue with senior authorities.

 On Thursday, following a tip-off, Ludhiana police conducted a raid at Khushdil and SK Transport companies in Transport Nagar of Ludhiana. On further information, the police also raided   in Pindi Street and recovered eight lakh banned tablets worth Rs 81 lakh. Police investigations have identified that the entire nexus begins from Baddi town in Himachal Pradesh. TOI also interacted with different pharmacy owners of Pindi Street to know more about the nexus.
 
 A pharmacy owner shared: “Ludhiana is the main hub of medicines. The pharmacists usually get medicines from Baddi-based pharmaceutical firms. The Himachal Pradesh government has not banned certain salts which are banned in Punjab. Therefore, Baddi-based companies manufacture medicines with these specific salts. The owners of medical stores give orders to companies, and through their trusted transporters, get the delivery done in Ludhiana, from where further deliveries are made across the state,” he added.
 
 Another owner of a medical store shared: “Transporters play a big role in this nexus. They keep the cartons of banned tablets inside godowns till the medical store owner fixes a deal. The cartons of these banned pills remain in godowns until that time.” Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP-Special Branch) Surendra Lamba said: “As per initial information received, the nexus started from Baddi, and has spread across Punjab. The transporters are certainly a main link in this nexus.”
 
 What is surprising is that banned tablets reach Ludhiana from Baddi in huge quantities, and yet the authorities concerned are clueless about this. Lamba said: “The intoxicating pills cross the state border and reach Ludhiana easily, which shows the extreme negligence of the drugs department. Neither the sales tax department nor are cops aware of the salts which have been banned here. Therefore, we have to take the help of the drugs department. I will discuss the matter with the police commissioner with a recommendation to write to the department concerned about the negligence of the drugs department.”
 
