NAGPUR: With condition of our perineal water bodies deteriorating, the number of migratory birds is falling and the avians have been scouting for newer and safer lakes this season. This has been the prima facie conclusion of   watchers who were part of the annual Asian Waterbird Census ( ) conducted on Sunday.

 Over 32 bird watchers scanned at least 20 lakes in and around Nagpur and recorded over 120 water bird species. “Compilation of data for entire Vidarbha region will be completed in next 15 days,” said Dr  , state coordinator of the census jointly organized by Wetland International & Bombay Natural History Society (BNHS).
 
 Dr Pimplapure said waterbirds are one of the key indicators of our wetlands’ health. Wetlands provide feeding, resting, roosting and foraging habitats for these species. “We work with a number of volunteers to assess status of population of waterbirds. The estimation will continue till January 21,” he said.
 
 The aim of the census is to generate information which is later used to identify wetlands of high importance for water birds, and take conservation measures or inclusion as priority wetlands within national programmes. Started in 1987, many birders were initiated into bird counting and monitoring through this project. In Vidarbha, it is being held since four years.
 
 Dr Pimplapure admits due to scanty rainfall this year, water level in lakes has gone down subsequently affecting food. This has distributed the birds to elsewhere. Fishing is also one of the major reasons why birds are avoiding their traditional places of visit this time.
 
 Take for example the most sought bar-headed geese from  . The birds arrived in fewer numbers this year and on Sunday barely 82 birds were recorded. Last year, the same number was recorded at 201.
 
 “A couple of years ago, at least 2,000 geese used to come at Paradgaon, Saiki and Haladgaon lakes on   and there use to be a rat race among watchers to record these birds first,” said Sanjay Kholia, one of the coordinators of the event.
 
 “This time most of the bar-headed geese were sighted at Chargaon Lake on  . I recorded more than 55 birds, besides 15 rudy shelducks. Chargaon is a good habitat as fishing was not seen on a big scale. There are farms nearby which prove to be good food houses for birds,” said Vaibhav Lothe, an avid bird watcher.
 
 Even veteran conservationist Gopal Thosar admitted that the number of water birds going down this year is alarming. The European red-crested pochards use to arrive at Ambazari Lake in large numbers but fishing has proved to be a death knell for them.
 
 “Now the birds are seen in large numbers at Gosikhurd backwaters near Gothangaon gate of Umred-Karhandla Wildlife Sanctuary. We sighted over 1,500 pochards but I still feel this number is one-fourth of the population we recorded last year,” says Thosar.
 
 Kholia informed on Sunday 2,350 pochards and 151 northern pintails were recorded. “These species of water birds are most sought after bar-headed geese,” he added.
 
 Bird watcher Nitin Marathe attributes change in crop pattern, illegal brick kilns near water bodies, huge construction activity like road works, illegal fishing, use of pesticides as major reasons for habitat destruction of birds.
 
 
