Bathinda: After Punjab’s most wanted gangster Vicky Goundar was killed along with his associates Prema Lahoria and Sawinder Singh on January 26 in an encounter in Sri Ganganagar disrict, the Rajasthan government has ordered a magisterial probe to look into details pertaining to the encounter undertaken by the Punjab Police in Rajasthan without informing their Rajasthan counterparts. 

 Sri Ganganagar district additional district magistrate (ADM) Nakhat Daan Barhath, who is conducting the probe, visited the spot on Monday. The Ganganagar police is also probing the matter on its part. The encounter was undertaken at Pakki village of Sri Ganganagar district in Rajasthan.
 
 Goundar’ maternal uncle Gurbhej Singh had levelled allegations on Punjab Police claiming the encounter was fake and Goundar wanted to surrender. Organised crime control unit(OCCU) inspector Bikram Brar, who was at the forefront of the encounter, has refuted the allegations.
 
 Talking to TOI, Barhath said, “I am conducting the probe as ordered by the district magistrate. I have asked the family members of Lakhwinder Singh, at whose house in Pakki village the gangsters were hiding, to record their statements. I have also made contacts with the villagers to get their statements recorded and have visited the spot to get first hand information. I will also wait for the forensic report and will hand over the probe report in a sealed cover to the court hearing the case.”
 
 He added, “No time frame has been fixed to complete the report but I will try to get it at the earliest.”
 
 Sources said some villagers had apprised the ADM that they had detected movement of some unknown persons in the village a week before the encounter and Lakhwinder had told his neighbours that his relatives were visiting.
 
 Sri Ganganagar superintendent of police (SP) Harendra Kumar said,”The Sri Gangangagar police is probing the case thoroughly from every angle. We are probing the matter as per Supreme Court guidelines laid down in probing police encounters.”
 
 OCCU AIG Gurmeet Chauhan who headed the encounter said that “we will fully cooperate the magisterial probe and act as per guidelines of Supreme Court and national human rights commission(NHRC). All the weapons used in the encounter had been deposited with the Rajasthan police to get the checked in forensic lab”.
 
 
