RAJKOT: Two sailors from   town of  , who were released by   on humanitarian grounds after languishing in jail for three years, will return home on Wednesday. 

 Ibrahim Razak Sap and Sajid Umar Sumra, who were released on February 18, will land in Ahmedabad on Wednesday morning. However, their families alleged their arrival was delayed due to lethargic approach of Indian embassy in Iran and their documents were also misplaced by Iranian authorities. They were kept in a lock-up inside the jail even after the order of their release was issued as the formalities were not completed. 
 
 “All the documents of the sailoIbrahim Razak Sap and Sajid Umar Sumrars are lost. They were taken to the local investigation agency and thereafter to Indian embassy. Initially, embassy officials had no knowledge of their release and it was not possible for them to return without passport and other documents. Five to six days passed in all these procedures. Finally, Indian embassy issued temporary passports to them,” said  , whose younger brother is still in Iran jail.   is helping them with all the procedure for release.
 
 Sap and Sumra neither had documents nor money to book air tickets to India. “Indian embassy did not help them book the tickets. I requested one of my relative in Dubai to help them and he booked the ticket for them,” Thaim said. 
 
 The ship’s captain is still waiting mercy release and his documents are also lost. His family in Mandvi is worried that it may further delay the process of his release. 
 
 Iliyas Thaim, who did all the communication with external affairs ministry and Indian embassy in Iran on behalf of sailors’ family members, said, “We have planned to take appointment of external affairs minister Sushma Swaraj to request her to pursue Umar’s release with Iran. Earlier, we went to Delhi twice, but could not meet her. Now, we are taking the help of our MP to fix a meeting with her.” 
 
 The news of their homecoming brought relief and happiness at the sailors’ houses. “Everyone is happy that they are coming back. But the happiness is incomplete because we all are waiting for my cousin to come back,” Umar’s cousin   said. 
 
 In August 2014, the sailors were on the ship which left Dubai to go to Yemen. Due to bad weather, the ship lost direction and entered Iranian territory unintentionally. There were 12 crew members on board of whom nine were released and three were charged under the Iranian law. They had been charged for illegal entry in Iranian sea and illegal trading in Iranian territory. 
 
 
