LUCKNOW: Almost 28 years after   embarked on a  , a Maharashtra-based organisation-Sree Rama Dasa Misison Universal Society with support from the   (VHP), has decided to take out the ‘Ram Rajya Rath Yatra’ from   to Rameswaram (Tamil Nadu) on February 13. The agenda then and the agenda now, is the same, that of getting the Ram Mandir built at Ayodhya’s disputed site.

 To commence from Karsewakpuramhousing the workshop of the proposed Ram temple-on Mahashivaratri day (February 13) the Yatra is expected to be flagged off by chief minister Yogi Adityanath. It will culminate on March 25 (Ram Navami) with a five-point demand to the central government prioritising a 14-month deadline for building Ram temple. The yatra will pass through six states— Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka, Kerala and Tamil Nadu.
 
 The Rs 25 lakh worth rath was built in four months in Maharashtra with wood and a special plaster mix made with South Indian spices for carving the 28 pillars adorning the rath. This, the organisers say is based on the model of the proposed Ram temple. The rath will reach Lucknow on Friday evening and Ayodhya by Saturday afternoon.
 
 
 
 
 We want Ram Rajya in the country. The government should get the Ram temple built in 14 months when Lord Ram comes from his 14 years exile back in 2019 (The Rath will be brought back to Rameshwaram to Ayodhya),”said Sreesakthi Saanthananda Maharsi, national general secretary, Sree Rama Dasa Mission Universal Society. He added, “We met the CM a few months back and being a Yogi himself he assured us of coming so the program includes the flag off by him.”
 
 The plan in Ayodhya includes inaugural ceremony from 1pm to 4 pm which will include meeting with the seers. This will be followed by the Shobha Yatra of the Rath from 4pm to 6pm from Karsewakpuram, Ayodhya. The yatra will then proceed to Nandigram in the evening. “After a night’s stay the yatra will leave from Varanasi and from there to Prayag, Chitrakoot, Ujjain, Nasik, Badlapur, Bengaluru and end formally at Rameshwaram. The Rath will then be secured at Thiruvananthapuram (Trivandrum) at the organisations national headquarter to be brought back to Ayodhya in 2019,” said Bheemsingh, general secretary of the organisation’s Uttar Pradesh unit.
 
 Convener of VHP Awadh zone, Sharad Sharma said that VHP supporters will be part of the yatra even if though its banner will not be part of it.
 
 
 
 
