Within a span of two months, three key political players in Tamil Nadu raised the spectre of a hidden ‘north Indian agenda’, mooted the concept of a  , and set off a debate on a Dravidian uprising to take on Narendra   for the 2019 Lok Sabha elections.

  
  
 The ‘Dravida Naadu’ rhetoric made a comeback in Tamil Nadu’s political discourse in January when ‘Makkal Needhi Maiam’ leader and actor Kamal Haasan, in his weekly column for a Tamil magazine, mooted the idea of a conclave of southern states, comprising Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana and the Union territory of Puducherry, to fight for their rights. "When Dravidian identity is celebrated across south India, the united chorus will reach New Delhi," the actor said.
 
 Two months later, DMK working president M K Stalin borrowed the idea and said he was all for a ‘Dravida Naadu (Dravidian land)’ comprising the southern states and believed that such a concept could become a reality. Stalin’s remark came a day after deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam made an unexpectedly strong budget speech that faulted the "myopic vision" of political critics (read BJP) and their erroneous anti-Dravidian propaganda.
 
 The Dravidian war cry that seems to evoke memories of the old   call of Dravidar Kazhagam leader Periyar (E V Ramasamy) and the DMK’s C N Annadurai could be a non-starter given the narrow parochial interests, intense water wars and a lack of cohesiveness on people’s issues. "To take on Modi, what is required is a principled political alliance. A grand alliance of political forces of south India as suggested by Stalin is not going to help fight fascist forces," said CPM politburo member from Kerala M A Baby. He shrunk from the idea of a regional coalition that appeared to give the impression of a secessionist move.
 
 Stalin’s Congress ally in Karnataka, however, welcomed the suggestion. Congress spokesman V R Sudarshan said, "We are Dravidians. Our origins go way back. It is a good idea to strengthen the progress of southern states." Sudarshan said, however, that no conversation had taken place yet with the proponents. "Kamal Haasan’s ideology is leftist. The DMK has an alliance with us. Chandrababu Naidu is unhappy with the NDA," he said.
 
 The Dravidian conglomeration may remain a non-starter for just these reasons. Divergent ideologies and border battles could break such an initiative at a nascent stage. "It may be worth a try at a symbolic level. But it is not easy to cobble up such a southern coalition. Coming together under a Dravidian identity is very difficult and could fizzle out in a couple of years," said Ajay Gudavarthy, professor,   for Political Studies, Jawaharlal Nehru University.
 
 The Telugu Desam Party and YSR Congress, which are seeking to move a no-confidence motion against the BJP-led NDA government for denying special status to Andhra Pradesh, are preoccupied with their own battles. IT minister K T Rama Rao, son of Telangana chief minister and Telangana Rashtra Samithi leader K Chandrasekhar Rao, declined to comment. TDP leader Mullapudi Renuka admitted, "There is always a south discrimination. But it is too early to talk about a southern alliance."
 
 Puducherry chief minister V Narayanasamy summed it up succinctly. "There are sharp differences among political parties in the south. Will the DMK and the AIADMK come together?" With such conflict of interests, a southern coalition is near impossible, he said. 
 
 
