PATIALA: Residents of Maharaja   are getting   enriched with nitrogen, phosphate and potassium in return for their waste. It’s a first ever model of waste management in   and is based on community participation in which women are playing a key role.

 190 households in   are helping in the process of waste management by segregating the waste produced in households into three separate categories—organic waste, recyclable waste and hazardous waste. Each house is segregating this waste in three separate dustbins. 
 
 Of the collected waste, the dry waste or the recylcable waste including plastic, bottles, glasses, wrappers and newspapers is sold in the market and the hazardous waste is collected by a Ludhiana-based company that treats biomedical waste. 
 
 The society’s premises has eight compost pits in honeycomb design where the organic waste was dumped three months ago. Each pit is 1m deep, 3m long and 1.5m broad and has bare soiled bottom surface. The first layer in the compost pit is filled with dry leaves and second layer with the cow-dung while in the third layer, the kitchen waste including peels of vegetables or fruits, or eggs shells and other organic waste is put. The pile is turned after every 15 days to supply the oxygen. The microbes are sometimes added into it to fasten the process of decomposition.
 
 A separate pit for the garden waste is also made where dry leaves are stored and then covered with three inches of soil and cow-dung mixture. These pits are made and treated in such a manner that no foul smell can be sensed upto 5m distance.
 
 Around 24 tonnes of waste was collected and treated for three months in the compost pits and now it is finally ready for distribution among the residents. The compost made of this waste has also passed the laboratory test and is recommended as highly valuable to be used as manure in plantation or growing vegetables. The same model of waste management is now being followed by other societies in the city. Besides this, a government polytechnic college has also followed the same model to treat waste and get compost out of it.
 
 Around 240 tonnes of waste is collected from the city daily and the officials of the   municipal corporation are planning to adopt this waste management model in the entire city.
 
 “The compost has been tested from  . There are lot of benefits in adopting this model of waste management as it helps the rag pickers to earn from the segregated waste. For instance, the rag pickers were charging Rs 70 from each house for collecting waste but it always became a difficult task in segregating the waste. Hence, the entire garbage was dumped into the marked sites from where it was taken for further management. However, now these rag pickers were earning around Rs 15,000 from the recyclable waste”, said, president of the Yadvindra Enclave society  , who is an executive engineer in the Patiala municipal corporation and is the brainchild behind this management model.
 
 He added that the project cost around Rs 78,000 out of which the residents contributed around Rs 70,000 while rest of the help was extended by the MC.
 
 
