Actor  , who hails from   district in Rajasthan, is currently seen hosting a dance reality show High Fever...Dance Ka Naya Tevar. This is Priyanshu’s comeback on the television after daily soap Bade Bhaiya Ki Dulhaniya (BBKD), where he played the lead character of Abhishek Pant. The show went off the air in just four months in October 2016. 

 While Priyanshu says that he took up the show BBKD to satisfy his creative hunger, the actor admits that he was taken aback when the makers decided to wrap up it up within four months. “I had tasted commercial success through   where my character of   became a household name. I took up BBKD to satisfy my creative hunger; I loved the character and the seriousness attached to it. I don’t have any regrets about doing BBKD but I am disappointed that it could not make a lasting impression on the audience. The channel changed its stand on a lot of things, including that on the script. I was taken aback when I got to know that it was going off air,” he says. 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 So, why did he not do any other project in 2017? “Ever since I hosted an awards show in 2015, I was really fascinated towards anchoring. Then in the same year, I got another opportunity of hosting another awards night. Both of them were fun experiences and I really enjoyed being on the stage,” Priyanshu says, adding, “In 2016, BBKD happened but deep down in my heart, I desperately wanted to host. In 2017, I got a lot of acting offers for daily soaps. I was even approached for Fear Factor:   as one of the contestants. But I rejected all of them. My talent manager used to come and tell me that it’s very difficult to get into this zone (anchoring) as there are already a lot of hosts who have established themselves in the industry. I, on the other hand, was in no mood to listen. But I think the universe heard me and I finally got a call for High Fever… Dance Ka Naya Tevar. I was waiting for it for so long and it finally happened.” 
 
  
 ‘
 
 Though, things didn’t go as smoothly as Priyanshu had expected. Recently, he suffered a shifting spasm which began from his back. “The pain was so unbearable that I thought I would collapse. But then I thought ki sabke saamne girne se better hai ki mai side mein aake giru. So, while I was stepping aside in order to flex my muscle, the production team and   (one of the judges on the show) saw me. It is then that the production team had to stop the shoot for some time. The spasm was caused by dehydration and long hours of standing. Since we are not really used to standing for 10 hours or so, my body is reacting like this,” he says. 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 As for his bond with Ahmed Khan, he says that it is more like brothers. “We understand what is going on each other’s mind without even saying it. We share a very brother-like bond with each other,” he says. “Lara ma’am ( ) has a great sense of humour. I also share a great bond with Dana Alexa. I make sure that Dana is comfortable as she is new to this atmosphere,” he adds.
 
  
 
 
