AURANGABAD: The   bench of the Bombay high court has issued notices to the state government and the irrigation department following a petition seeking directions to reserve   dam water for drinking purpose of adjoining villages. 

 Manisha Shailesh Choudhri, sarpanch of the   grampanchayat, has approached the high court through lawyer   seeking directions to stop the use of water from Sukhana dam for the purposes other than drinking.
 
 "Garkheda and other adjoining villages including Mangrul, Takli Mali, Chitte Pimpalgaon, Hivara, Tongaon, Jadgaon, Chitegaon, Kumbephal and Apatgaon are totally dependent on the Sukhana dam as far as drinking water is concerned," she said. 
 
 Following the arguments on Thursday, the bench comprising S S   and S M Gavhane placed the petition for hearing on January 22 and ordered issuance of notices to the state government through secretary of rural development department, the Aurangabad district collector, the executive engineer and the section officer of Aurangabad irrigation department, said Thombre.
 
 The petition said that though "the rainfall during the current year was satisfactory, only 28% water is available in the Sukhana dam. If water from the dam is released for agricultural purpose, there will be acute drinking water scarcity in the villages during summer. Therefore, to avoid such an eventuality, the authorities are required to be directed to reserve the water of the Sukhana dam for drinking purposes only."
 
 The petition pointed out that villages have made several representations to the authorities concerned to stop releasing water for the agricultural purposes and reserve it for drinking purpose only. Several grampanchayats have also passed resolutions to this effect and communicated their decision to the authorities concerned. Despite this, the irrigation department authorities released water through the canal on January 16 for the agricultural purposes from the Sukhana dam. 
 
 Thombre argued "for the last four to five years, there was no satisfactory rainfall in the state and more particularly, in the   region. This year, there was satisfactory rainfall but in spite of that, now only 28% water is available in the Sukhana dam. About 18 to 22 villages near the dam are depending on it for drinking water purposes." 
 
 
