PANAJI:  , the Indian Navy’s yacht which was on a circumnavigation expedition, has altered course and docked at Port Louis, Mauritius, on Wednesday. The 17-metre sloop, which has six women naval officers on board, was on its way to Goa on its last leg when rough seas broke its steering system around 40 nautical miles off the Mauritian coast. 

 “The vessel has altered course towards the nearest port in Mauritius to undertake defect rectification,” said a senior naval official. “She has berthed alongside at Port Louis against all odds. The crew shall resume the circumnavigation voyage as soon as the defect is rectified.”
 
 While the Indian Navy has not specified the extent of the damage, officials said that due to the damage, the speed of the vessel had been hampered and that “innovative methods” had to be used to allow the vessel to change course and navigate to safe anchorage at Port Louis. “Smallest sail available onboard INSV Tarini was being used to maintain headway,” the Navy said.
 
 The Navy plans to repair the non-operational steering gear at Port Louis after which the six women will resume their extraordinary journey. INSV Tarini is skippered by lieutenant commander  . The crew comprises lieutenant commanders Pratibha Jamwal, P Swathi, and lieutenants S Vijaya Devi, Aishwarya Boddapati and Payal Gupta.
 
 The yacht and her crew have braved storms, frigid weather, choppy seas and winds of around 70 kmph on their journey. They made their first port of call at Fremantle, Australia, followed by Lyttelton, New Zealand, Port Stanley, Falklands, and finally at Cape Town, South Africa, as they etched their name into the record books.
 
 On their expedition, the crew have sailed south of the three great capes of the   — Cape Leeuwin, Australia, Cape Horn, Chile, and the Cape of Good Hope, South Africa.
 
 The vessel had departed from Cape Town on March 15 and were expected to reach Goa in the last week of April. 
 
 The expedition, titled Navika Sagar Parikrama, is in consonance with India’s attempts to empower women and showcase ‘Nari Shakti’.
 
 
