PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: In a major embarrassment to the ruling   and the civic administration, the chairperson of Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation ( ) standing committee,  , said the civic body should not launch the BRTS service on Pune-Mumbai highway without implementing adequate safety measures. 

 She added that it would be better to return the   National Urban Renewal Mission (JNNURM) funds provided by the Centre than to lose human lives in accidents after starting the service on the highway. Savale expressed her opinion during the weekly meeting of the committee, which was attended by municipal commissioner Shravan Hardikar and other civic officials.
 
 Her opinion assumes significance as a team from IIT Mumbai will be visiting the highway on Saturday (Jan 6) to inspect precautionary measures that are being implemented prior to the launch of the service and make suggestions to enhance the safety of commuters. The civic body will incorporate the changes and obtain an approval report from IIT Mumbai, which will be submitted to the Bombay high court to secure its consent.
 
 Savale has been a vocal critic of the BRTS for the past five years when she was elected corporator from the  .
 
 There are around a dozen of merging points to allow vehicles to enter the service lane from the highway and vice-versa. This increases the risk of accidents. Savale said, “I had prepared an animation film highlighting the risks and shown it to civic officials. The officials have said that they will be undertaking safety measures such as rumbling strips on adjacent portions of the service road to slow down vehicles. They are also installing traffic signals on BRT lanes. But I am not satisfied.”
 
 She added, “Accidents are also bound to happen near the underpasses below the highway when vehicles try to move from one service road to another by crossing the BRT lanes.”
 
 Savale alleged that the civic body is providing bus as well as Metro services on the highway ignoring other parts of the city that lack public transports.
 
 
