HYDERABAD: A five-acre waqf property in Malkajgiri, worth overRs100 crore, was clandestinely “sold away” by a senior   official for only Rs 35 lakh. Though the alleged deal took place in May 2017, it came to light on Sunday.

 
 Stung by the scam, the   has decided to write to the state government to order a CID inquiry into the deal. The parcel of land, spread over five acres, belongs to Mir Mahmood Pahadi, Attapur. The waqf institution has parcels of land in Attapur and Malkajgiri.
 
 MA Mannan Farooqui, who had served as chief executive officer (CEO) of the Waqf Board till recently, issued a no-objection certificate (NOC) to a private person, handing over the five-acre land. He allegedly took Rs 25 lakh bribe to issue the  . Another Rs10 lakh was given to a middleman in the deal.
 
 Waqf Board chairman Mohammad Saleem told TOI that the board meeting would be held on Monday to discuss the scam. “Farooqui did not circulate the important file to the board. It did not come to me either. We grew suspicious when he suddenly went on leave and sought repatriation to his parent organisation, law department. I discreetly held an inquiry and found that the former CEO had issued NOC. The person who got the NOC told me that he had paid Rs 35 lakh bribe,” Saleem added.
 
 He said a complaint was lodged at the Abids police station. The board would also request the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) to probe the scam. Saleem said he would also write to the chief minister to conduct a CID probe into all NOCs issued since 1956. “Whoever is found guilty will be dealt with as per law. We will not spare anyone,” he said. The NOC was issued on May 26, 2017, declaring the notified waqf property as a non waqf land. The CEO had then contended that the signature on the file was forged.
 
 
 
 
 However, the board forensic department confirmed that Mannan had signed the file. “Based on the forensic report, we have initiated action and cancelled the NOC,” Saleem said. The scam came to light after the person, who paid the bribe, approached the board chairman alleging he paid money for the NOC. The complainant will present his case before the board on Monday.
 
 The waqf land was recorded in survey numbers 648, 659 and 660. While issuing NOC, the CEO sent a letter to   district collector urging him to delete the survey numbers as waqf land.
 
 BJP leader and waqf protection activist   told TOI that only a CBI probe would bring the truth out. “Many people are involved in the case. The CEO and all others who helped him in the issuance of NOC should be arrested. Several such NOCs have been issued even by previous board members,” he said, demanding that the state government should intervene and check the waqf mafia.
 
