Mumbai: Ineffective implementation of   through poor   practices results in wastage of Rs 6.5 crore every 20 seconds collectively by organisations around the globe, reveals a global survey.

 This equates to roughly Rs 1,28,000 crore wasted a year. The study conducted by   ( ), shows that on average, organisations globally waste 9.9% of every dollar due to poor project performance and India loses 8.1% of every dollar (figures are US dollar amounts, but represent a percentage that applies to any currency).
 
 PMI MD Raj Kalady said, “A higher level of maturity of project-management practices is seen in India in sectors like IT, automotive and   compared to capital-intensive sectors. The private sector also reports a higher level of induction of project management than the public sector. Of the total 40,000 certified professionals in India, 55% certified project managers belong to the IT industry.”
 
 The study, which has 34% respondents representing the IT industry, reflects a more positive outlook (less wastage) for the country compared to the global average. “This is in spite of the fact that we keep hearing about time and cost delays in government and   projects. However, increasingly, even public sector companies have started laying emphasis on training programmes and strengthening their existing project management units and professionals,” said Kalady.
 
 “Project management is the driver of strategy, but organisations are failing to bridge the gap between strategy design and its delivery,” according to Mark Langley, president and CEO, PMI. “Effective project management to implement organisations’ business strategy is key, and has a significant impact on the bottom line. There is a powerful connection between effective project management and financial performance,” he added.
 
 The report highlights feedback from 4,455 project management professionals, 800 project management office directors, and 447 executive leaders from a range of industries, including  , financial services,  , government, energy,  , construction, and   around the globe.
 
 More than one in three organisations (35%) report not having strong alignment of initiatives and projects that directly deliver against strategy. While 84% of executive leaders believe they are effectively prioritising and funding the right initiatives and projects, only 55% of project management office leaders agree. The report said this suggests organisations might not be leveraging the optimum focus and investment to deliver against strategy. 
 
 
