HYDERABAD: The elaborate arrangements put in place by the police notwithstanding, traffic was thrown completely out of gear around   crossroads as thousands of people took to the streets to participate in the ‘shobha Yatra’ organised on the occasion of   on Saturday. Barricading of arterial roads led to hours of congestion especially on the routes towards Osmania University, Vidya Nagar among other areas.

 
 From 3pm to 6pm, helpless commuters were stuck in bumper-to-bumper traffic owing to the procession. “When I was returning from Osmania University and travelling towards  , the traffic was stopped near Bawarchi junction. I was forced to take a diversion towards Secunderabad. It was very annoying as I was unaware of where to go,” said Zubin Shaikh, a commuter, who was one among the many commuters stuck for almost two hours.
 
 Despite the heavy bandobast in the area, lack of signages and cops at all junctions made matters worse. Commuters were seen circling around the RTC main road impatiently as they failed to find alternate routes. Mobile maps also failed to help commuters find a way as several roads were choc-a-block due to traffic diversions.
 
 The vehicular movement towards Himayath Nagar, Narayanguda, Liberty cross road, Chikadpally, Kachiguda, Vidya Nagar, Sultan Bazar, Chaderghat, Koti and   among others was reduced to a crawl. Agitated commuters were seen getting into verbal duels with the traffic cops at various pockets, lashing out at them for poor management.
 
 “At a few junctions, the cops were simply standing and not helping the commuters. I was just following fellow commuters and taking internal routes in hope of finding a way out. But all my attempts failed to get me out of the congestion,” said  , a commuter, who struggled for one-handa-half hours to find a route to go towards lower Tank Bund via Narayanaguda flyover.
 
 More than 5,000 devotees joined the procession, which started at 10.30am from Gowliguda Ram Mandir. Anticipating chaos, all the shops were closed around RTC crossroads for a brief period, where the gathering congregated with orange flags in hand — chanting ‘Jai Siyaram’ in unison. According to  , commissioner of police (Hyderabad), 11,000 members from the police department were involved at all the centres. As many as 410 CCTVs were also installed on the 12-km stretch to monitor the situation.
 
