CHANDIGARH:   (BoF) in its meeting on March 1 will take the final call for allocating Rs 75 lakh for the setting up of 'Swayam' and 'Swayam Prabha' access labs in the University. The total estimated cost of one lab including equipment is Rs 16. 37 lakh while furnishing will cost Rs 20 lakh. The accessing   and Swayam Prabha modules will cost about Rs 36. 37 lakh. 

 It has been decided by the panel that one of these two labs will be set up on the top floor of the building of department of computer science and applications to access the programmes of the ministry of human resource and development (MHRD) while the other on the top floor of UIAMS building.
 
 In a bid to implement national digital initiatives in varsity, a meeting of committee constituted by PU vice-chancellor Prof   resolved that the total expenditure of Rs 36.37 lakh to set up one lab could be met from the savings of UIAMS subject to approval of the syndicate.
 
 It was also decided that means in some other department for covering the costs to set up the second lab should be explored.
 
 Subsequently, the committee discussed that the process of setting up these labs would be started once the grants are approved by the varsity.
 
 Moreover, the BoF will also table the matter of allocating Rs 54.14 lakh out of development fund which is for construction of additional classrooms in Block-II of law department.
 
 Moreover, the committee recommended that accounts of the research projects being undertaken by the faculty members will be audited by CAG empanelled firms and the BoF will decide on the matter in its next meeting.
 
 Panjab University (BoF) is going to take up inspection report of principal director audit (central) and local audit department of Chandigarh administration in its meeting on March 1. The varsity is yet to clear 51 audit objections raised by the principal director audit (central) which are pending since 1998. Moreover, the pending 27 paragraphs of 2015-16 by the local audit will also be tabled in the meeting for discussion.
 
 
