MANGALURU: On the 120th anniversary of   Shrine in Jeppu, it will lay the foundation stone for a hundred-bed block for the mentally-challenged. Apart from it, it will also organize two grand feasts with prayers and masses, said Most Rev Aloysius Paul D’Souza, bishop, Diocese of Mangalore.

 He was addressing the media here on Wednesday. Explaining about the need for a mental asylum in a ashram that houses hundreds of orphans from several decades, he said that there was considerable demand from families to have such a facility, as they cannot look after the mentally-challenged. “We have decided to build a 100-bed facility for the mentally-challenged, where half of it will be dedicated to females. It will have psychiatrists, nurses and caretakers,” said Bishop.
 
 
 
 Fr Onil D’Souza, director, St   Charity Institutes, said as part of the celebrations, Saint Anthony’s Ashram Jeppu will start Tredecina (thirteen-days novena) From Thursday, in preparation for the annual feast to be celebrated on June 13. The timing of the devotion is at 11 am and will be held at Jeppu Ashram. The thirteen days novena comprises rosary, adoration, holy mass and novena.
 
 As an immediate preparation for the feast triduum (three days) will be held for three days beginning from June 10. The Triduum will be held at   at 6pm.
 
 This year the feast will be celebrated on two days. The shrine will complete 120 years on June 12. Most Rev Bernard Moras the bishop emeritus of Bengaluru will be the main celebrant of the holy mass. He had served the ashram from 1968 to 1970 as an assistant director. Priests who served the ashram in the past will be concelebrating the holy mass on that day.
 
 While June 13, being the feast day, Most Rev Aloysius Paul D’Souza, bishop, will preside over the holy mass at 10.30 am at the ashram. He will subsequently bless the foundation stone for a hundred-bed block for the mentally-challenged. On the same day, mass will be celebrated at 8.15 am at Milagres Church, and main festive holy mass at Milagres Church at 6 pm will be celebrated by bishop Aloysius D’Souza.
 
 
