GOA:There is wonderful wildlife news in India’s smallest state. Recently, this newspaper first reported that a family of smooth-coated otters (Lutrogale perspicillata) has taken residence in Pilerne’s Saulem lake. This water body has been plagued by widespread garbage dumping, sewage, and the same menace of haphazard construction that blights so much of the rest of Goa. But there is obviously still some life in the once-pristine habitat, as it obviously contains enough oxygen for sufficient fish to sustain amphibious mammals. And so, hope continues to flare for Goa’s spectacular, but gravely imperilled  .

 Almost exactly the same time this exciting development filtered to the public, members of the Goa Bird Conservation Network reported sighting black-legged kittiwakes in the wetlands of Morjim. This would generally be considered an ornithological rarity, as there have been just around 10 confirmed sightings in India, but this is the third year in a row that the small gulls have been spotted on the state’s coastline. They are just one of several dozen species, literally birds of passage, which recuperate for a few days in Goa before resuming their annual migration on the great ‘flyway’ from Northern Europe and Russia to more hospitable climes in the southern hemisphere.
 
 Author of ‘Birds of Goa’   along with   says the continued seasonal return of migrant species is an indication ‘all is not lost’ for Goa’s environment, which still manages to provide a crucial resting place for birds like the Amur falcon, which wing all the way from Siberia to South Africa and back each year. Besides the predictable visitors, he points out that several stragglers have been spotted recently, including the bar-headed goose, pelicans, flamingos and the pied avocet, a most striking wader that adorns the logo of the UK’s Royal Society for the Protection of Birds.
 
 There is considerable irony — with concomitant tragedy — that Goa consistently ignores, overlooks and neglects its bounty of environmental riches while pursuing the fast buck in the worst possible way via extraction, construction, and bog-standard tourism. There are few places anywhere in the world as blessed, with a densely packed array of micro-environments that range from coastline to wetlands all the way to 600sqkm of the Western Ghats. On paper almost 20% of the state’s land mass is ring-fenced against exploitation, but all those safeguards are under constant assault.
 
 In her searing ‘The Vanishing: India’s Wildlife Crisis’, former member of the National Board of Wildlife and its core standing committee,  , wrote about what is at stake in Goa, where she used to return to “soothe my weary soul. I would vanish into its less-visited interiors, trek its forests, kill time in sleepy villages, stroll beaches more visited by turtles than humans”. But over the years, “I have seen the ravages: Beaches and villages covered in rotting trash, mountains flattened, forests stripped bare and replaced by mounds of red dust of mined ore, green fields, ponds and wetlands razed for hotels and gated colonies, turtle-nesting beaches overrun by resorts, shacks, cafes, bazaars”.
 
 Bindra makes it clear we are at a point of no return for the state environment, with the likely last straw being the grotesquely ill-conceived second airport project. She writes, “Prime Minister Modi laid the foundation stone of the Mopa greenfield airport in November 2016. The foundation stone was laid remotely, from a stadium in Goa’s capital  , safely away from the actual site and uncomfortable issues. He did not see the lush landscape, its natural wonders or fecund fields that the airport will decimate…In laying that stone, the Prime Minister endorsed not just a shoddy and inept EIA report, but also sent a message that wildlife, environment and people’s concerns are of little consequence in the trajectory of India’s economic growth.”
 
 This strikes home particularly hard in Goa, as we are only beginning to tabulate the immensity of the threat. 
 
 The writer is a photographer and widely published columnist. Views are personal.
 
 
