CHANDIGARH: Go out and play. This is what city-based counsellors are suggesting to the students, who are appearing for exams, especially boards. According to the, restricting the students within the four walls will do more harm than good. While the festival of colours will be celebrated on march 1, the   ( ) will start board exams for classes X and XII from March 5.

 Gurjinder Kaur, counsellor at Government School, Kajheri, said, “Parents should let children play with colours as it will be a great stress buster for them. It will also help them in breaking the monotony of exams. Moreover, parents who will forcibly keep them inside will be doing more harm than good. By staying inside how can parents ensure that the child is studying? With the child’s focus being on the others playing outside, he will certainly not be able to concentrate on studies and he will feel more stressed.”
 
 
 
  
  
 
 While in some cases its parents are stopping children from going out and play Holi, there are several instances where the students themselves are not coming out of the houses. For such students as well parents. playing Holi should be made compulsory, the counsellors add.
 
 Rakesh Sachdeva, a local counsellor on CBSE helpline, said, “The children should play for a short time like 1-2 hours. They should be a part of the festivities. This will give them a break from the routine and as a result they will feel fresh.”
 
 With Holi turning into a festival of hooliganism is another reason why parents do not want their children to go out and play. “There are people who get drunk and then there are the youths who colour just anyone they see. So it is better to be inside rather than getting into trouble,” said Ravita Chanchal, mother of a Class XII student. 
 
 “I am looking forward to play Holi for some time in the morning and then study during the day as it is it will be so noisy that I will not be able to concentrate on my exam preparations,” said Radhika Sharma, a Class X student.
 
