Trichy: There may be light at the end of the tunnel for guest lecturers of Bharathidasan University who have been filling in for permanent teachers whose posts have been lying vacant for over a decade now. Many senate members are veering round to the view that the salary of such faculty members should be hiked and eligible candidates among them appointed to the vacant posts. The issue of guest lectururs is a key item on the agenda of the senate meeting scheduled for March 17. 
 
 The demand comes in the backdrop of the resentment over these guest lecturers being ignored by the ministry of human resource development (MHRD) in the pay commission for college teachers last year. Among the 392 teaching staff in 10 constituent colleges under the Bharathidasan University, only 31 are permanent who avail of salary prescribed by the University Grants Commission. The remaining 362 are hired as guest faculties with salaries ranging between Rs 10,000 and Rs 15,000 based on their qualification. This apart, there are 87 faculty members who are paid on hourly basis depending on their availability. 
  
 “The temporary staff have outnumbered the regulars especially after the growth in the number of private institutions in recent times. But without bringing us under any law, the government has been silently subjecting us to intellectual exploitation,” alleged a guest faculty member from Trichy. 
  
 Well-qualified and experienced teachers have been working in self-financing /unaided institutions as guest lecturers for over a decade now, but their position is not only ad hoc they also work on meagre salary. Many of the approved resolutions of the senate members have called for filling vacant post of teachers with guest faculty. 
  
 While member of the senate T Abdul Razaak urged the university to give the guest lecturers the designation of assistant professor and Rs 30,000 per month as salary, another senate member, G John, sought approval for permitting the guest faculty to go for MPhil and PhD. Their job being temporary in nature, they are neither allowed to do research nor the PhD holders allowed to guide research scholars. 
  
 Saying that state-run institutions and universities are the gravest violators of UGC regulations, former president of Association of university Teachers (AUT) K Pandiyan said “as per the University Grants Commission (UGC), not more than 10 per cent of the sanctioned post should be filled by guest faculties. Besides this, remuneration to the guest faculty should not be less than Rs 35,000 per month as per the guidelines issued in 2016. But such rules are not being followed by BDU.” By exploiting staff in such a manner, a state-run university like BDU loses its moral right to regulate and control its affiliated colleges, he says. 
  
  
