BATHINDA: A Class I girl died after suffering a severe bout of diarrhoea at her school in   on Saturday, a day after she was administered the measles-rubella (MR) vaccination by a team of the health department. 

 Hailing from Jai Singh Wala village,   studied at the state government-run Adarsh School, Bathinda, and was given the vaccination there. Soon after news of the girl's passing away spread, rumours of the measles-rubella vaccination being the cause of her death went viral on social media. 
 
 Though the girl was cremated without a post-mortem, district civil surgeon Dr Hari Narain Singh, in a press conference on Sunday morning, said it seemed gastroenteritis, and not the vaccine, was the cause of her death. Even her family denied the suggestion of the death being linked to the vaccination. 
 
 While the girl was vaccinated on Friday and she started vomitting at her school on Saturday, the side effects of the vaccine would have shown within half hour of being administered, said the civil surgeon.
 
 As the school did not inform the family of the girl about her illness, deputy commissioner   has ordered a probe. "Action will be taken as per the inquiry report," he said.
 
 An uncle of the girl,  , said Gurnoor was fine on the day she was vaccinated. "The driver of the van in which she went to and came back from school found her in a semi-conscious state inside. Though she was ill, we were not informed about her health. They did not even give her any medicine," he said. 
 
 The driver of the van, said Beant, took Gurnoor to the village and told her family she was unwell. "The family earlier took her to a doctor in the village and then to a private hospital in Bathinda. As a doctor was not available at the hospital, they took her to another hospital. She was declared brought dead there," said Beant. 
 
 When contacted, Adarsh School in-charge Amanpreet Singh denied any lapse on part of the school. He broke down while speaking to The   over the phone, and said the child was sitting in class and did not complain of feeling unwell. "Had we noticed anything , we would have taken her to a hospital," he said. 
 
 
