MYSURU: The pre-monsoon showers lashing the city for the past week has prompted the   to increase green cover in and around the city, and a drive has been initiated to plant saplings on either side of the  . However, the immediate effects of the drive have not gone down well with the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), which is none too pleased with the ground being dug up very close to the road. NHAI officials fear that the drive could damage the road.

 The forest department has undertaken the drive as part of its   programme, under which it plans to plant a whopping 30,000 saplings along a length of 106km of road in and around Mysuru. This also includes the 44km-stretch of the Ring Road. Although the drive was initially scheduled to be launched on June 5, World Environment Day, the pre-monsoon showers have precipitated the forest department’s initiative.
 
 The drive is the brainchild of deputy conservator of forests (DCF), Mysuru, KT Hanumanthappa, whose masterplan titled, ‘Greening Mysuru’, proposes to increase tree cover on all existing roads, parks, open areas within the premises of many companies and educational institutions and residential areas.
 
 Pits have been dug up on either side of Ring Road to plant saplings. Dubbing this work ‘hasty’, NHAI authorities have alleged that the forest department did not seek permission before taking up the drive along the key road.
 
 A senior NHAI official pointed out that Ring Road was notified as a part of NH-275 (Bengaluru-Bantwal). “Mysuru Urban Development Authority (Muda) constructed the road, and it was subsequently handed over to NHAI. Forest department has to obtain our permission to plant saplings, which it has not done. To plant saplings, the drain layer of the road has been dug up. The drain area allows rainwater to seep into the ground. By digging pits to plant saplings, the forest department has disturbed the drain layer and the granular sub-base,” the official said.
 
 The official expressed fears of the roots of the trees damaging the road. He suggested that the forest department could, instead, plant the saplings on the median, which is 1.5m wide. “After ten years, these saplings would have grown into massive trees, and owing to an increase in traffic volume, they might lead to accidents. The forest department will then face trouble felling these trees owing to resistance from residents and environmentalists. The forest department must have discussed with us before launching this drive,” he added.
 
 Hanumanthappa told TOI, “We took up the drive on an immediate basis following heavy showers. At recent meetings, the forest department had brought the proposal of planting saplings to the attention of NHAI authorities.”
 
 
