NAGPUR: Amid the dry and brown summer landscape all around   in   district, there is a tiny hillock in Wazzar village which is lush green. That’s because more than 200 varieties of trees have been planted here and are lovingly nurtured by mentally challenged children who, after being abandoned by their biological parents within hours, days or months of their birth, now reside here at the Late Ambadaspant Vaidya Matimand Mukbadhir Bewaris Balgruh.

 
 “There are 123 physically and mentally challenged men and women whom I took into my care from their childhood. They were brought to my facility by police or sent from district   in the state,” says  , a father figure not just physically but legally too as his name appears in the father’s name column of each of these persons.
 
 It was in 1990 that Papalkar established this home for abandoned children. “I used to publish a Marathi magazine ‘Devkinandan Gopal’ from Mumbai in the early 70s. During that period, I learnt about the miserable plight of commercial sex workers and observed that lot of mentally and physically challenged girls are pushed into prostitution,” says Papalkar.
 
 “The fact that these helpless girls were used, abused and left to die disturbed me and I decided to set up this bal sadan,” informs Papalkar who initially had two girls sent from Mumbai and Nashik.
 
 Soon the numbers swelled till he put a stop at 123 in 1995. “I can’t handle more than this,” he says and he has a reason. Unlike other facilities, none of them have left Papalkar even after attaining the age of 18 years.
 
 “People set up institutions for disabled to earn money but I have done it to rehabilitate them. According to a rule made in 1957, disabled children can stay only till the age of 18 in an institution, after which they have to fend for themselves,” he says and adds, “They are once again abandoned and are back to being ‘lawaaris’. The girls are pushed into prostitution, the boys are made to beg and die on streets.”
 
 “But I can account for all the 98 women and 25 men who were put under my care by the police. I got 19 women married, two of them have absolutely normal children. The visually challenged are studying in colleges and the mentally challenged who are incapable of performing any task are trained to nurture plants which creates positivity in them,” says Papalkar.
 
 He goes on to explain how he does. “I cut off the bottoms of 5 litre cans and place them in deep holes dug near the root of each plant. The mentally challenged have been taught to fill these cans with water. This way the water reaches the deep roots and is not wasted,” he says.
 
 Papalkar switches tack in the next moments and asks, “Find out what happened to children who had to leave from similar centres. Where are they? Nobody knows. That’s why I want this rule to change. The government should allow these helpless persons to continue staying at ‘bal sadans’ till their death. Otherwise we can’t claim to have rehabilitated them.”
 
 Built in the middle of a 25-acre land, Papalkar’s sprawling yet austere facility at Wazzar is home to a huge joint family where misfortune is the common bond. They came here as infants but are all above 18 years now.
 
 Indira has multiple disabilities and Nanda who is 50% handicapped takes care of her. Mamta, Padma and Rupa, who are deaf and mute, are in charge of the kitchen. “Together they prepare a meal for over 100 people three times a day and train the mentally challenged to do small jobs like laying out plates and cleaning the kitchen. Here everybody has a purpose which they are fulfilling according to their abilities.”
 
 All of them are taken for a medical check-up once a month. “This is to make sure that girls are having their menstrual cycle on time. There are at least nine boys and girls who get fits. They require regular medical care. One of the girls, Bela who cannot speak, maintains the medicine schedule for all those who are under treatment.” explains Papalkar. The two ambulances parked under a thatched roof are used “at least three times a week”.
 
 The visually challenged have been taught to read and write and they have taken the task of educating and providing information to others. Rupa, who is stricken by polio in both legs, wields a 3G phone and reads out the news everyday. Each person here has an electoral and aadhar card.
 
 “They are citizens of this country I want them to get their due,” he says.
 
 “The state government has a budget of over `500 crore of which only Rs20 crore is for disabled and the rest is given to centres like ours for dispensing wages of caregivers. I don’t think it serves any purpose as an able-bodied person can never take care of the physically challenged in the manner in which they care for each other,” says Papalkar and also points out to the numerous allegations of molestation, assault and rape on these very caregivers.
 
 Papalkar observes that the physically and mentally challenged don’t require much to survive. “These loans of `3 lakh to start a business and aids of crores of rupees to centres where they are housed are a waste. Each such person can be sustained on a sum of `5,000 per month. All they require is a safe and friendly place to live surrounded by others like them with whom they can identify,” he says.
 
 Papalkar calls the pattern that he has created as Wazzar model and wants all similar centres to follow it. “I am invited to give lectures on this and have tried to convince authorities from every possible platform to change the rule,” says the care giver who has refused all kinds of government aid, awards and felicitations.
 
 His centre survives on donations and the fee he charges for delivering lectures. “I refused to accept `20 lakh which the government had sanctioned for wages because had I taken that money I would have had to comply by the rules. I can’t turn them out as they have no future outside this premise,” says Papalkar getting emotional.
 
 In an enclosure of mud and thatched roof facing the hillock where the plantations are, Papalkar sits on an iron cot slightly away from a marking on the floor. “This will be my grave. I have to be buried here so that they continue to have some connect with me,” he says.
 
 “If the rule is not changed they will be thrown out. I wish the PM hears my plea. Only he can change this rule,” says Papalkar.
 
 
