HYDERABAD: Despite another two weeks to go before the   (BIE) releases the  , several colleges, especially corporate institutes, have already completed the process. Many of them are even set to begin classes for the new academic year. If that’s not all, student activists claim that the fee charged from students who opted for   last year — as early as October — was comparatively lower than what candidates paid to book an inter seat in January 2018.

 “We were surprised to notice that the admissions for 2018-19 batch started in the month of October 2017 itself. At that time, colleges were supposed to conduct half yearly exams for the existing students. But as it turns out, they were busy luring students for the next batch. Not just this, colleges also collected seat reservation charges, which is against BIE norms,” said Sur Singh, a student activist.
 
  
 The   of a corporate college, the student activists managed to gain access to, clearly mentioned the discount extended to the a candidate, the total registration fee, details about date and time of registration etc. In case of a sponsored candidate, the receipt even showed the sponsor’s name. This apart, some admissions forms also carried remarks from the colleges, which promised a further cut in fee if the candidate provided certain receipts and documents. Decrying this trend, private college managements rued how these “cheap tactics” of corporate colleges were killing the prospects of small private institutes. “By the time the board releases the notification, there will hardly be any student left to seek admission in our colleges. It is very disheartening to see that even the board is not initiating any action against these institutes, except for releasing a note once in a while warning them against violating norms,” said G Satish from the Telangana Private Intermediate Colleges Association.
 
 When contacted, BIE officials confirmed receiving complaints from parents regarding the same and said that they have already sent a report to higher officials regarding the issue. “Although no one officially lodged a written complaint, we have received several phone calls from parents saying that corporate colleges are calling them continuously and sending their employees to their homes asking them to admit their wards in their college. We have warned the colleges and also issued show-cause notices. A detailed report on the issue has also been sent to higher officials,” said B Jayaprada Bai, district intermediate education officer (DIEO), Hyderabad adding that penalty will also be levied on these erring colleges.
 
 
