HYDERABAD: The   2018 failed to enthuse budding entrepreneurs from the 'City of Startups' who feel the longstanding demand of extending the tax holiday and clarity on taxation on angel investments were not addressed. They felt the Budget's focus on emerging technologies will definitely prove beneficial for startups.

 "While the FM did mention in passing that the government is in the process of creating a robust tax regime for alternate investment funds and angel investors, the exact measures were not discussed. The   fails to address the longstanding appeals from startups such as extension of tax holidays and providing additional working capital. Reduction in corporate tax rate to 25% for companies with turnover up to Rs 250 crore offers the only silver lining for startups falling in this bracket,"  , co-founder and managing director,  , said.  , founder and CEO, eKincare, said, it was great to see the government acknowledge that venture capital funds and the angel investors need an innovative and regulatory regime for their growth. "The FM said they will be building a robust alternative investment regime in the country and rolling out tax regimes designed for investors. This is a positive step. Hope the measures they take will attract investors and help startups grow," he said. Meanwhile hailing the budget announcement that the government will explore use of blockchain technology proactively for ushering in digital economy, T-Hub chief executive officer   said it is great news for the industry as a whole. "On micro-economic front, India is making strides in embracing digital technologies. Having the government push policies at the macro front will certainly enable a richer startup ecosystem in this space."
 
 He lauded 'Revitalising Infrastructure and Systems in Education initiative which he feels will give a thrust to India's innovation ecosystem. Former   chairman BVR   appreciated the increased impetus on emerging technologies to help India turn into a digital society. "The investments in research, training and skilling in AI, robotics, digital manufacturing, and IoT will pay rich dividends by creating new jobs and re-skilling the existing workforce," he added.
 
 
