LUDHIANA: Furious with his 92-year-old father over a property dispute, a man ganged up with his brother and nephews to beat him up and open fire at him. The attack was trigerred by an argument over registration of the house in the name of the accused, which the elderly victim refused to do. 

 The accused have been identified as Amandeep Singh, his brother   and Harjeet’s sons Harsimran and   of Phase one, Urban Estate. The complainant,  , who is into the textile business, told police that   got a share in property 10 to 11 years ago. He said the accused lives on the first floor of his two-storey house while his wife and children live in Australia.
 
 According to the complainant, Amandeep would frequently torture and mentally harass him to get the house registered in his name. On Saturday, he said, he used foul language while talking to him and called the others to the house.
 
 He said the accused and the others beat him up and asked him to get the house registered in his name. When he refused to do so, he said, the accused shot at him using his licensed revolver and fled from the spot. 
 
 The complainant told the police he even used objectionable language against his 88-year-old mother when she tried to intervene. He said after the accused fled from the spot, his family members rushed him to a private hospital on Brown road, after which he informed police. 
 
 A police team, led by ASI Baldev Raj reached the spot and started investigations. Police have booked the accused under section 307 (attempt to murder), 323 (voluntarily causing hurt), 34 (Acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and various sections of the Arms Act.
 
 Investigating officer of the case, ASI Baldev Raj said the accused are on the run and a manhunt has been launched to arrest him. He said   Ahuja is fine now and has been discharged from hospital. Narayan lives on the ground floor with his wife Amarjeet Kaur and son Ranjeet Singh’s family while Amandeep Singh lives alone on the first floor, police said, adding that the accused fired just one bullet from the revolver. They said the complainant has six sons.
 
 
 
 
 In another such case, 30-year-old Hardeep Singh, a resident of Guru   allegedly hit his father   with a brick, leaving him seriously injured in an attempt to kill him after he refused to sell the house to give him money. 
 
 
