Coimbatore: More than 500 auto drivers from 35 districts in the state took out a rally from Chintamani petrol bunk to Raja Street, seeking changes to the amendment to the Motor Vehicles Act. They said the amendment would only help corporates, while leaving small auto drivers just labourers. “The amendment should be scrapped and the government should work towards reforming the sector,” said M Sivaji, state general secretary, Tamil Nadu Auto Workers’ Federation. “More than 2.5 lakh auto permits are issued in Tamil Nadu and Puducherry. And there are more than 5 lakh auto drivers in the state. Nearly 6 lakh workers, comprising mechanics and part manufacturing labourers, are also part of the sector. The government needs to take it seriously,” he added. The drivers also wanted the government to bring the petrol and diesel under the goods and services tax (GST). “Auto fare must be fixed by government and it should be fair. It should not be common across the state, but district wise,” R Selvam, district president, Tamil Nadu Auto Workers’ Federation, said. “Diesel and petrol should be given at a subsidised rate for autos as in the case of fishing boats,” he added. Sivaji raised the demand to revive the welfare board for auto drivers. “The central government has issued a direction saying vehicles weighing less than 7,500kg need not get badge. State government should issue an order in this regard. Ola and Uber go for dynamic pricing. This should be stopped and they should follow the government fixed fare. Also, auto insurance was Rs 1,600 till 2012, but now it has been raised to Rs 7,800. The government should reduce the premium,” he said. The auto drivers from the other districts were in the city to attend the eighth national conference of Tamil Nadu Auto Workers’ Federation. The three-day event would feature a number of workshops and discussions. The event would conclude on Sunday. “Resolutions will be passed and submitted to both the central and the state governments. We will press the government to implement them as soon as possible,” said P Venugopal, district president of the All India Road Transport Workers’ Federation.