BHOPAL: The school education department has submitted only some documents sought by   ( ) —the agency looking into fraud in Centresponsored Right to Education Act (RTE) scheme meant for under-privileged schoolchildren, an official said.

 The official feels attempts are being made to hush up Rs 19 crore fraud.
 
 The EOW — the government investigating agency inquiring the matter — has given two days of time to school education department to give all documents before February 6. “We have given the officials of the school education department two days time to provide all documents we have sought. The information they had earlier submitted was partial raising suspicion,” said an EOW officer privy to inquiry. He said the EOW would conduct raids to seize documents if officials failed to submit the documents on time. “The Rs 19 crore fraud raised eyebrows about working in other districts. We fear it might turn out to be a major one,” official told TOI on condition of anonymity.
 
 He said similar complaints were received by school education department from Ratlam, Barwani, Rewa and  . However, the department appears to be trying to push the matter under the carpet. When contacted, Haribhavan Singh Tomar,   Bhopal (in-charge), said, “All documents sought by the EOW were submitted. We also want culprits to get exposed.
 
 These is no reason to hide anything, we are cooperating with EOW in its investigation.” In Bhopal, a financial fraud of over Rs 19 crore has allegedly been made by former district project coordinator’s (DPC)   who was removed as the DPC and sent back to his primary duty till further orders.
 
 S M Dubey, who is appointed as new DPC, will take charge from February 6.
 
 The MP government gives crores of rupees to private schools every year as mandated under the Right to Education Act, 2009. Highly-placed sources told TOI after preliminary inquiry, it emerged the fraud might have been committed across all districts of Madhya Pradesh having around 40,000 private schools across 51districts. The modus operandi by more than 500 errant private schools in   also informs about the lack of cross-checking by the education department.
 
 More than 100 nodal officers are said to be involved in committing irregularities as reported by TOI in last report.
 
