NEW DELHI: Amid the ongoing   drive across the city, Delhi urban development minister   on Thursday urged the mayors of the three   to clear 351 city roads for  . 

 Notifying these roads for mixed land use, which will legalise commercial activities on these stretches, will save hundreds of traders from the sealing drive. In the past one week, many commercial establishments have been sealed for unauthorised construction, non-payment of charges and misuse of land.
 
 “There is an atmosphere of fear among the traders in the wake of the ongoing sealing in different parts of the city. I urge you to treat the matter urgently and issue directives to the commissioners so that traders could be protected from sealing,” Jain said in a letter to the mayors of the east, north and south corporations.
 
 After the file on these roads was sent to the urban development department, the Delhi government had met the commissioners in April 2016 and sought clarifications from the corporations on certain issues. “We sent five letters to the civic bodies after the meeting but no response was received,” Jain wrote. The minister is likely to meet the commissioners on Friday. 
 
 Located in different parts of the city, around 70% of these roads have commercial establishments though they are not authorised to house such facilities. If notified, these establishments can turn into authorised ones after paying use conversion and conversion charges. The notification will be issued by the Union urban development ministry after the Delhi government gives a clearance to the file.
 
 The sealing drive, initiated by the corporations following the directives of a Supreme Court-appointed monitoring committee, has snowballed into a political issue with AAP accusing the BJP-ruled civic bodies of harassing traders and the leader of opposition in the assembly, BJP’s  , blaming the government for not issuing the notification. Gupta has said the matter was sent to the Delhi government long ago but it took an apathetic attitude towards the issue.
 
 
