PATIALA: It has been over two months since a sixteen-year-old girl was alleged to be abducted from a village in Patiala. Police till date have not been able to trace the   girl. 

 The girl was abducted on December 3, 2017. The family initially claimed that she was abducted by a 27-year-old accused Jatinder Singh of Batala in   district on the pretext of a marriage proposal. The accused was also a distant relative of the girl’s family and worked as a driver in a private transporter company and had allegedly developed relations with the girl. A case against the accused was registered at Sadar Patiala police station on charges of abduction in December.
 
 The girl’s family started fearing the possibility of the trafficking after the cops tracked the accused’s location in   in February, 2018. The mother of the girl, Sarabjit Kaur, said she went to Jharkhand along with a police team on a lookout for her daughter but all in vain. 
 
 “The police initially did not make any efforts to search the accused and asked me to bring vehicles and bear expenses of the vehicles to conduct the search. I paid them the money for this as I wanted my daughter back. Police claimed to have found the location of the cell phones being used by the accused in Jharkhand. Hearing this, I arranged for vehicles for the police team to go to Jharkhand and I accompanied them. I suspect that my daughter has been forwarded to someone who runs a racket. Police did not inquire the family of the accused properly to get any further details and leads that could lead us to my daughter,” said Kaur while talking to TOI.
 
 Kaur, who is survived by her in-laws, has been looking after her 1.5 acres land following the death of her husband around 11 years ago. “I have already paid around Rs 80,000 to the police to find my daughter and now they are unwilling to help me,” she added.
 
 The investigating officer   refuted the allegations of making no efforts or taking money from the girl’s mother and said, “We have been looking for the girl since she has been abducted. She according to the family of the girl escaped from home during the night and booked 27-year-old accused in the case who was also absconding since then. Our police teams are trying to trace the accused.”
 
 
