Death is no more an essential qualification to find peace at the city’s crematoriums and burial grounds. Since   turned over maintenance of a few burial grounds and crematoriums to private contractors, these facilities have shed its grim image and is attracting people looking for some quiet.

 The Besant Nagar crematorium is now a swanky complex and bears no resemblance to its former unsanitary existence. The facility, maintained by yoga guru Jaggi Vasudev’s  , has multiple CCTV cameras to monitor movement inside the complex with wall-mounted speakers playing chants of Lord Shiva. “We want people to look at this facility like a temple,” said 58-year-old   volunteer, Surya, requesting visitors to leave their footwear outside.
 
 
 The crematorium has waiting room for families, well maintained toilets and a bath, a rarity in corporation maintained facilities. While funeral services have resumed at the crematorium following renovation, Surya told TOI that more changes are likely. “In another two months, artwork and paintings will cover the crematorium walls. We will have a small garden too,” he said.
 
 At MKB Nagar in Vyasarpadi, a sprawling lawn welcomes visitors to the crematorium-cumburial ground. “At least 15 people come here daily for their morning walk,” said  , caretaker, MKB Nagar burial ground. Maintained by Madurai-based Pearls Engineering Pvt Ltd, the ground boasts of fruit, vegetable and flowering plants. “We grow pomegranates, banana, ginger, papaya, broad beans and more,” said R Ramamoorthy, director, Pearls Engineering.
 
 These facilities are a world apart from the ones maintained by the civic body. In  , the burial ground on  , which is at least 100 years old and houses the affluent from the British era and a former chief justice of the   high court, is a scene of neglect. Families visiting the graves have to walk a littered trail to reach the tombstones of their dear departed. Others like the Krishnampet burial ground, off Kamarajar Salai, suffer due to staff shortage. Sources said only one conservancy worker had been deputed to sweep the 48-acre burial ground.
 
 According to corporation sources, outsourcing maintenance is considered a feasible proposition considering the sorry state of affairs in burial grounds that the civic body maintains.
 
 Isha’s maintenance work has impressed administrators so much that talks are on to hand over seven more facilities. “We are looking at Vadapalani, Porur, Nungambakkam and Kannamapettai,” said V Kalaivanan, Isha volunteer.
 
