LUDHIANA: Getting tough on traffic violators, especially   jumpers, the city police will now register an   against violators. These will be lodged under Section 279 (rash driving) of the IPC. The Ludhiana police are already booking people who park their vehicles on road and obstruct traffic.

 Now, after cracking whip on vehicles parked wrongly on roads, the Ludhiana police are all geared up for strict enforcement of traffic rules. This was announced by the commissioner of police R N   during a press meet on Saturday. 
 
 Sharing details on traffic rule violators, the commissioner said that the traffic police had already challaned 11,624 vehicles from January 1 to March 12. Moreover, in accordance with the towing norms, the police have towed away as many as 30,235 vehicles so far. Besides, under Section 283 of the IPC (whoever, by doing any act, or by omitting to take order with any property in his possession or under charge, cause danger, obstruction or injury to any person in any public way or public line of navigation, shall be punished, with fine, which may extend to Rs 200). The Ludhiana police had earned more than Rs 9 crore from challans last year. 
 
 Dhoke said that, “Ludhiana has the highest per capita vehicles in the country as per records, which totals to nearly 19 lakh. However, city lanes are narrow, which certainly lead to traffic chaos. The traffic violations and wrong parking adds to the woes. Besides creating awareness about the traffic rules, the city police have to get little strict with the violators.” 
 
 “Moreover, the high accident rate in city is also a matter of concern. If I talk about accidents, then rash driving is the biggest reason. To curb it the city police will now start booking red light jumpers under various sections of rash driving. Earlier, the violators used to pay only fine. However, to stop them from jumping traffic lights, the police will have to get tougher. Once a person is booked for jumping traffic light, they will have to present themselves in court and this will certainly make a difference,” added Dhoke. 
 
 Further, the top cop said that the registering of FIRs would start by next week. He added that, “There will be surprise checkpoints at various points of the city. One cop will be deployed at a chowk with a walky-talky while on the other side a team would stand for challaning. The police personnel with walky-talky will intimate the team about the violator, who has jumped the traffic light and the police team will nab him.” 
 
 
 
