AHMEDABAD: A consumer court has advised the Life Insurance Corporation ( ) to follow its motto underscored in the   - 'Zindagi ke saath bhi, zindagi ke baat bhi'. 

 While criticising LIC's decision to repudiate the insurance claim of a teacher who died of cancer, the court noticed that the LIC's advertisement makes a good "quotation", but the corporation should also specify technicalities, which it intends to follow in future at the time of claims.
 
 The case pertains to a teacher   from Kadiyadara village in Sabarkantha district. She died of cancer in June 2012. During the last stage of her life, two months' premium was not deducted from her salary as per the Salary Savings Scheme (SSS). She used to pay premium regularly under   since 1994. When her husband   claimed insurance of Rs 2 lakh, he was paid an amount of only Rs 55,900, which was paid to LIC as premium in 18 years. Her policy was declared lapsed due to non-payment of premium for two months.
 
 The LIC told the claimant that since last two premiums were not paid, he was not entitled to the policy benefits and it is liable to pay only the premium amount back. Thaker moved the Consumer Dispute Redressal Forum, Sabarkantha district, which questioned the LIC why it did not deem fit to issue a mandatory notice to the insured before closing the policy.
 
 A quorum of judges M J Mehta and S R Patel observed that the LIC should have given grace period to an insured, who was loyally paying premium for 18 long years without fail. She was suffering from a critical illness and her employer did not inform her about non-deduction of premium from her salary in last two months of her life. The court said this was not her fault.
 
 The court further said that the insurance company and the insured shared a healthy relation for 18 years. In such circumstances, LIC's advertisement punchline would be apt if it awards the grace period of two months in considering the claim because LIC's schemes are meant to be beneficial for those who pay premium. "The insurance company should have taken a liberal view to perform its business motto 'during the life, after the life'," the court observed while ordering LIC to pay the policy amount in this case.
 
