BENGALURU: Saturdays are usually spent socialising, but the residents of  , off   in southeast Bengaluru, marched on the streets on Saturday to vent their anger over the lack of basic civic amenities and infrastructure in the area. 

 Armed with banners and braving the afternoon sun, the residents (mostly working professionals) formed a 2km-long human chain asking civic authorities and local politicians to pay attention to the issues - poor drainage, road infrastructure and lack of pavements among others - faced by them. This is the first major protest in the area, with over 1,500 residents taking to the streets. 
 
 "Both the main road and the interior roads are in terrible shape; there are no footpaths for pedestrians. Walking along these roads is like an going through an obstacle course; we have to cross and jump over the potholes and open drains. Moreover, despite demanding Cauvery water for years, nothing has materialised, and we are forced to depend on tankers," said Asha Vishwanathan of the Kasavanahalli Development Forum (KDF), which represents 28 resident welfare associations.
 
 Vishnu Prasad, convener-founder, KDF, said, "Despite this area being a key passage for connectivity from Electronics City to Wipro and ORR, there are only two or three buses in the mornings and evenings. Due to this, residents are forced to use private vehicles or take shared autos and cabs. Further, there are barely any traffic police officers deployed in this area."
 
 Indicating that the problems plaguing the area were visible during the protest as well, Sudhir R, a resident, said "Somehow, on a narrow road jammed with traffic, with a herd of cattle passing by, we are lucky to get some space to protest."
 
 Owing to the pathetic condition of the area, members of KDF had met local MLA   and area corporator   on February 24. However, nothing much came out of this meeting, despite the residents even drafting short and long-term development plans.
 
 "We plan to continue this fight and may even organize a bigger protest in the future. If nothing is done to address our issues, we will be forced to field a candidate from our area in the elections," added Prasad.
 
 
