NAGPUR: The city’s environment status report (ESR), which has been mired in controversies since the last few years, seems to be in its final stage. Making use of technology, this year’s report will be focusing on additional key areas. Environmentalists hope that the report is “accurate” and “made public”.

 In October 2016, TOI had reported that as per an agreement between the   (NMC) and the National Environmental Engineering Research Institute (Neeri), the ESR will be prepared by the institute. On Monday, Neeri made a preliminary presentation of the report at the NMC office.
 
 According to Neeri director  , the final report will be ready by the end of June. “This was a consultation exercise in which we invited environment NGOs, citizen groups and NMC officials. Apart from presenting how the report is shaping up, we also took their suggestions,” he added.
 
 On use of technology, Kumar said that this time remote sensing has been used while preparing the report.
 
 Though the details of the report are not revealed yet, sources from the civic body said that it has many additions. “Environmental modelling, in which Neeri is an expert, is being used for prediction of impact. The report incorporates a lot of comparisons. For instance, it compares air quality of previous years and also predicts the situation in 2025,” said sources.
 
 Apart from air, noise and water pollution, solid waste management and other areas, the report will also focus on the present condition of city lakes. “Around 11 lakes and three rivers are being analysed,” said sources. 
 
 They added that for the first time, the report is also attempting to establish a link between environmental problems to stress and happiness among citizens. It will take into account the impact of environmental degradation on the economy. “The trend in climate change and city’s biodiversity will also find a place in the report,” sources said.
 
 In the last few years, the city’s ESR has been censured by experts. In August 2016, TOI had reported that the majority of the content in the 2015-16 report was a copy-paste of the earlier reports. Even the 2013-14 report was the copy of 2011-12 report. 
 
 In March 2016, Bharatiya  's senior corporator   had raised doubts over the report’s findings. According to his allegations, ESR 2014-15's findings were much in contrast with position on the ground. 
 
 
