NEW DELHI:   after a   was   with   in   of west Delhi by a group of men, Crime Branch has   four   for the crime. The elderly man was killed as he had objected to the group playing loud music and creating nuisance in the locality.

 
  
  
 
 The incident had taken place on December 27, 2017. The deceased, Chandresh Ram (60), had blunt force injuries on his head and body.
 
 The arrested men have been identified as Sandeep Sehrawat alias Kautilya, Satish alias Deepak Pandit, Sanjeev and Sonu. Pandit is the brother of notorious gangster Sandep Kana accused in a series of murders, extortion and robberies. Joint commissioner (crime) Alok Kumar confirmed the developments.
 
 Pandit and Satish were released from jail on bail that day and their gang had thrown a lavish party to celebrate the occasion, deputy commissioner (crime) Bhisham Singh said.
 
 The gang had first gone to their rented accommodation in Harphool Vihar and brought a large amount of alcohol. After the party, they became aggressive and started misbehaving with local residents and fought with them for petty reasons. When a few residents asked them to not create nuisance, they began to beat them with baseball bats.
 
 Ram got fatal blows in the process and died. Angry locals then held a protest and the mob torched several vehicles, including a Hyundai Verna, a Swift and a Santro.
 
 “A team from inter-border gang investigation squad led by ACP Aditya Gautam got a tip-off that the gang would come to Sector 13 Dwarka after which a trap was laid and they were arrested,” DCP Singh said.
 
 Sehrawat is a diploma holder in automobile engineering from Pusa. He had worked with a Japanese auto firm for some time, but later began to smuggle arms. He and Pandit posed as property dealers and financiers. Sonu and Sanjeev worked as collection agents for them.
 
 A few months before the incident, Sehrawat and Pandit were arrested with a 9mm pistol and a revolver that they had bought allegedly to commit a robbery. However, police got wind of it and arrested them before they could execute their plan. The accused men said that they underwent hardship in jail, so decided to party hard after getting bail. However, things got out of hand. They have been sent back to Tihar Jail.
 
