By: Anamni Gupta and Sakschi Verma

 The summer-vacation rush to the snow-capped   in   keeps the roads to Manali packed with tourist vehicles. As the heat wave intensifies in June-July and families start looking for a weekend-to-10-day getaway to the hills, Himachal Tourism’s network of information offices in Chandigarh and eight other cities—Shimla, New Delhi, Kolkata, Ahmedabad, Mumbai, Manali, Kullu, and Dharamsala—comes to their rescue.
 
 While Manali is still among the top summer destinations of the country, several off-beat locations in Himachal Pradesh have also come up on the map. “McLeodganj, for example, made popular by the trek to Triund,” said Anil Kapoor, senior manager at the Himachal Pradesh tourism information centre in Sector 17, Chandigarh.
 
 
 Kapoor says the information centres serve every need of the tourists—from ticket booking to making hotel reservation in guest houses across four circuits—Satluj, Beas, Dhauladhar, and Tribal.
 
 The first two circuits derive their names from rivers, the third is named after a mountain range, and the fourth includes the rural, off-beat locations of the state.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 The Himachal Tourism office in Chandigarh moved from Sector 22 to the Inter-State Bus Terminus (ISBT) in Sector 17 about 18 years ago. Kapoor has been in the ISBT office for two-years-and-a-half. The centre, which is next to the Chandigarh Tourism office, operates with only four employees, who can handle tourist queries during both telephone conversation and personal interaction. Two other vital workers are the peons.
 
 
 
 
 Since the launch of online portal hptdc.in, the tourist rush to the different enquiry centres of Himachal Pradesh Tourism Development Corporation has gone down indeed, says Kapoor. “But since Himachal Pradesh remains the favourite summer escape of people from Chandigarh, the information office at the ISBT has a number of families as regular clients, who vouch for the complete assistance they get in tour planning and how it makes their journey hassle-free.
 
 The visitors facing any issue or seeking answers related to online reservation are directed to the corporation’s head office in Shimla. Queries related to offline bookings are dealt with at the respective regional office.
 
 
 
 
 Apart from the online and offline bookings through the tourism corporation website and its registered offices across the country, tourists can also plan their Himachal Pradesh itinerary with the help of online travel agents (OTAs). The tourism corporation has tie-ups with the OTAs such as MakeMyTrip and GoIbibo. It works as a mediator between tourists and destinations. The other popular booking method among the less tech-savvy tourists is going via general sale agents (GSAs). The corporation has tie-ups with 13 GSAs across the country to help tourists book stay in desired hotels and guest houses.
 
 
 
 
 The busiest tourist season of Himachal Pradesh is April to July but a number of tourists continue to arrive between October and January, the festive season. Apart from Shimla, Kullu, and Manali, the most visited destinations of the hill state include Dalhousie, Chamba ,and Khajjiar, which are favourites with both Indian and foreigners tourists. “In peak tourist season during summer, we record 90-to-100% booking for these places,” Kapoor says.
 
 The senior manager also suggests Janjehli as an off-beat location that tourists have started to discover only now. Janjehli is close to Kullu-Manali and just 80 kilometres from the Bhuntar airport.
 
 
 
 
 “When hidden destinations such as Janjehli starts getting popular, it gives a boost the local economy of those new-explored regions,” says Kapoor. “The government, therefore, is always in favour of encouraging tourism in unex plored places. Tourism becomes a source of income for the na tives, and they engage in provid ing food, accommodation, and transportation to the visitors Rental shops of weather-appro priate clothes and traditiona costumes, and all the adventure activities the locals set up gener ate employment, even though al this also has a negative side.”
 
 Kapoor rues that tourists coming to Himachal Pradesh damage its fragile ecology. “They litter the hillsides and the com mercial activity to support tour ism creates pollution. The gov ernment should restrict the building of hotels and gues houses, keeping in mind the car rying capacity of these hills. This will also help retain the freshness of these places,” he says.
 
