KOLKATA: One reached the city nearly a week ago and the second has already started its journey from Bengaluru. The remaining 12 BEML rakes for the   corridor will follow in quick succession and reach the city by the end of this financial year, BEML chairman & managing director Deepak Kumar Hota told   on Friday.

 
 “These are world-class rakes and we now have the capacity at BEML to build one coach per day. The remaining 72 coaches will reach Kolkata by the end of this year. We are committed to provide world-class Metro services for Kolkata. At the moment, we don’t have any orders from   for the new lines for which work is on but if they want our rakes, a tender process can be launched. However, the process could be simpler if Metro were to place a follow-up order,” Hota said.
 
 Nearly 20%-25% of BEML’s business is in the defence and aerospace sectors. BEML is working on missiles.
 
 “We also have a 25-acre SEZ plot in Bengaluru that we propose to use for the aerospace sector. Our aim is offsets and exports. We are already in talks with companies like HAL and Dassault. We are also working towards the development of high-speed trains. For the mining sector, we are developing 200-tonne high capacity dumpers and 180-tonne excavators that would run on diesel. These now run on electricity. ‘Make in India’ is a great concept and will aid in the development of micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) and strengthen the eco-system for vendors and suppliers. This not only aids in growth but also saves a lot of funds. In fact, we are now looking towards exports in a big way and have already held talks with 68 countries,” the   said.
 
 Hota pointed out how BEML is extremely committed towards environment and generates nearly 400 lakh units of electricity through windmills and solar panels. The company’s peak demand is 360-380 lakh units. The remaining flows back to the grid.
 
 “We generate 23 MW from wind energy alone. Our carbon footprint is nearly zero. We have reduced travel a lot and rely a lot on video-conferencing. We have even done away with plastic bottles altogether. Financially, our turnover and profit has gone up over the last fiscal. We also have major tie-ups with institutions like IIT Kharagpur and IISc, Bangalore. We want to create centres of excellence with such institutions,” Hota added.
 
