RAIPUR: In a fresh case of molestation by security forces, a school principal in Maoist infested Kanker district of   has made a complaint to police alleging that the Border Security Force personnel posted in a neighbouring camp have been molesting, passing indecent comments and making gestures on the school girls. While the school girls have been complaining about the issue for long, demanding immediate action, fuming parents said the   camp should be shifted to another place. 

 According to locals, the day before parents made a police complaint and the message went viral on social media, there were some BSF jawans who had visited their homes and threatened them against highlighting the matter.
 
 Girls in higher secondary school located in Bande region of Kanker district have been allegedly facing molestation, objectionable gestures and passing of indecent remarks by the BSF personnel of 114th battalion on their way to school and back. 
 
 Moreover, higher risk looms on the girls residing at government hostel located in the vicinity and considering past instances of sexual assault of minor girls in residential hostels, it was a matter of serious concern.
 
 As the region is too dense and about 150 kilometres away from Kanker headquarters, parents said that there was hardly mobile network available in the region, “if there’s an emergency, we would have no way out.”
 
 The girls alleged that harassment was going on for long time and few parents had shared messages about it on social media when he issue we t viral and principal took the matter to police.
 
 Talking to TOI, BSF inspector general JB Sangwan said, “The matter has come to my notice and I have ordered an inquiry into it. We are verifying the authenticity of complaint and would take action if the personnel are found guilty.”
 
 Sensing serious risks to safety of tribal school girls and considering past instances of molestation by security forces in other parts of Bastar, Principal JR Kanchan in a written complaint to police said that the girls were feeling harassed and it was becoming a question on their safety. Demanding to shift the camp to another place, principal has asked for desirable action in the matter.
 
 According to information, earlier also the BSF officers were contacted over the issue and school was ensured that no such incidents would take place in future. But there was no change in attitude of personnel. For instance, a BSF jawan allegedly gave his number to a school girl and asked her to call him. Terrified, she passed on the number to school authorities who informed BSF officers. There was though a brief pause on the molestation by personnel but it started again. 
 
 Girls in their complain said that it was difficult to identify the jawans who molest because they cover their faces when they do so and the girls could only hear their voice or see the gestures.
 
 Also, the jawans venture into school premises often with an excuse over security cover during helicopter landing and try to strike conversation with girls. 
 
 When contacted Amol Xalxo the investigating inspector at Bande police station said, We have received a written complaint by principal on February 7 and have began probe in the matter. An FIR would be lodged after initial inquiry. 
 
 It was in last August when CRPF men were accused of assaulting minor school girls in Dantewada district during Rakshabandhan event.
 
 
