BENGALURU: Swiss private equity investor   is buying a 48% stake in GlobalLogic from PE advisory firm Apax   in a deal valuing the product engineering services firm at over $2 billion.

 
 Though the quantum of proceeds from the stake sale was not disclosed, the deal marks a stellar exit for Apax Partners as it has made five times the return on its investment, said sources close to the development. Following the acquisition, Partners Group becomes an equal shareholder with existing investor Canada Pension Plan Investment Board (CPPIB).
 
 Partners Group is one of the largest private markets investment managers globally with $74 billion in assets under management (AUM). Partners coming on board will strengthen GlobalLogic’s business ties, especially in Europe.
 
 Apax Partners acquired 96% in GlobalLogic in 2013 for $420 million from a group of investors, including Westbridge, Goldman Sachs-managed PE fund, New Atlantic Ventures and Sequoia. In April 2017, the Apax funds sold 48% stake in GlobalLogic to CPPIB for $1.5 billion. The remaining 4% is held by a clutch of smaller investors.
 
 In the M&A landscape involving Indian IT assets, Capgemini’s $4-billion acquisition of   four years ago remains the largest till date. Igate’s $1.2-billion takeover of  , backed by Apax Partners, a few years ago was one of the biggest private equity actions in the sector.
 
 GlobalLogic — which counts Coca-Cola, Microsoft and Verizon as customers — provides product engineering consulting and full-spectrum product development services, including developing minimum viable products and product testing. GlobalLogic has clocked over $500 million in revenue and has an organic growth rate of over 20%. Since Apax came on board in 2013, it is learnt to have doubled its revenue and earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortisation (ebitda).
 
 Apax, however, declined TOI’s email inquiry on the deal size and how the transaction was structured.
 
 GlobalLogic was founded by IITians Rajul Garg, Sanjay Singh, Manoj Agarwala and Tarun Upadhyay in 2000.
 
 GlobalLogic CEO   said that the Partners Group has a successful track record of working with high-growth companies and shares business synergies of building an even stronger company.
 
