GHAZIABAD: Members of the   of a society in Indirapuram have written to the local   to get rid of the   present in the buildings in wake of the   outbreak in Kerala. 

 Rajev Bali, RWA president of Exotica Elegance society, wrote a letter to the district magistrate saying that, “Presence of large number of bats have scared the residents so help us in getting rid of them. Ever since the Nipah outbreak was reported in Kerala, in which about 10 people have lost their lives, there has been a sense of unease among residents as a portion of the society’s basement is home to nearly 50 bats.” 
 
 “We were flooded with complaints from the residents who wanted to get rid of the bats and since we could not have done it on our own we sought the administration’s help,” said Bali.
 
 Shaili Singh, a resident, said, “During this time of the year, bats usually make the society’s basement their home and for the last three years I have seen them leaving during start of winter. Earlier we had no problem with them, but this year with the outbreak, residents have panicked and want the bats out of the society” added Singh.
 
 The residents had earlier approached municipal commissioner C P Singh for help. “Singh told us that it is not their job. So as a last resort we wrote to the district magistrate and we are awaiting her response,” said Bali.
 
 However, a district administration official said the residents’ fear unfounded. “There is no cause of alarm, we have not received any advisory or anything pertaining to Nipah from either the state or the Centre and I think that their fears are unfounded. But to allay their fears we will soon send officials from the veterinary department to the society,” said the official.
 
 Sankar Bhattacharyya, scientist at Translational Health Science Technology Institute, Faridabad, said, “So far, the Nipah virus has been noticed to spread from the fruit bat, not the Indian pipistrelle that is seen inhabiting the society basement. But it could spread to other close species, including the pipistrelle. As for precaution, one should, for the moment, be careful about buying fruits that don’t have any surface cuts and injuries, but so long as fruits are washed and peeled, they are safe.”
 
 
