THIRUVANANTHAPURAM : The eligibility for welfare pension will be determined by a host of factors and prominent among them would be power bills, income of sons and daughters and vehicles owned by the beneficiary. The state government has entrusted   (GIFT) to conduct a sample survey to filter ineligible beneficiaries who avail welfare pension in Kerala. The survey will be completed within 4 months. An amount of Rs 1.24 crore will be spent for conducting sample survey.

 Of late, the government has been dealing with issues arising out of welfare pension going to undeserving people. Lack of proper monitoring regarding death of beneficiaries and remarriage has resulted in unscrupulous distribution of old age and widow pensions. The survey will cover various aspects which had till now not been considered. The income of sons and daughters who stay with the beneficiary, the power bill of the house, the educational qualifications of family members, sons and daughter employed abroad, vehicles owned by the beneficiary or family members are some among them.
 
 The sample survey will be conducted in one municipal corporation, two municipalities and a few panchayats. The new factors were incorporated to gauge the financial status of a beneficiary and determine eligibility.
 
 Thiruvananthapuram corporation, the only civic body included in the survey, has the largest number of social welfare   (73,238). Since February, 20,000 applications are pending.
 
 At present, around 42.5 lakh people avail social welfare pension and 10 lakh persons receive pension from various welfare fund boards. With government increasing welfare pensions, it has become indispensable to make sure that it goes to deserving people, said officials.
 
 CAG in its 2016 report had cited that 12% beneficiaries do not deserve pension and 15% deserving people have been exempted from availing pension. The government spends Rs 453.6 crore a month to disburse welfare pension. It recently directed local bodies to identify undeserving beneficiaries and take back the amount they received illegally.
 
 In September 2016 and August 2017, the government had spent Rs 2,202.31 crore to clear the dues incurred from default in payment of welfare pension. The number of beneficiaries availing five types of welfare pension has increased phenomenally between 2011 and 2016. The biggest increase was recorded in old-age pension. In 2011 number of beneficiaries availing this was 4,81,785 which rose to 10,56,365 by 2016.
 
 
