GURUGRAM: The department of town and country planning (DTCP) has written to police commissioner, seeking a direction to lodge an FIR against Godrej Properties for allegedly encroaching upon the revenue road passing through its residential group housing project —   — in  . The   is also accused of merging the common area of the colony with the revenue road.

 Acting on a complaint received on  , DTCP carried out an investigation and held the developer guilty of violating licence terms and conditions.
 
 The licence was issued by DTCP in 2008 for an area of 13.74 acres in   village, which is now Sector 80. Godrej Properties and Frontier Home Developers developed the colony, Godrej Frontier, on the land.
 
 Godrej Frontier Resident Association in its complaint on CM Window had red-flagged encroachment on the revenue road in November 2017. “While constructing the housing colony, Godrej Properties has encroached upon the revenue road and merged the same with the common area of the colony,” alleged the association.
 
 A member of the association, who didn’t want to reveal his identity, said the revenue road separate a portion of the colony land from rest of the project, and the developer used that land to construct a shopping complex, an EWS apartment and residential tower K. In case of restoration of the revenue road, he alleged, these structures on the land would have no access to remaining part of the colony and investment done by residents would go down the drain.
 
 “Godrej is making attempts to transfer the maintenance of the colony and common areas to residents without acquiring the revenue road. In this case, villagers later can claim the usage right over the road,” said a resident.
 
 “After receiving a complaint on CM Window, the site was inspected by DTCP field officials and it was ascertained that Godrej Properties and Frontier Homes Developer have encroached upon the revenue road,” said district town planner (enforcement) Rajendra T Sharma.
 
 He said a show cause notice was issued to the developer in January, and an order was issued in February, asking the developer to restore the land to its original condition according to the colony’s approved layout plan.
 
 In its reply to DTCP notice, the developer had submitted that revenue road is coming inside its licensed colony and the road does not provide any access to any part of the village. It claimed that a portion of the road is abandoned at present.
 
 According to the developer, it also submitted an application to the district administration seeking exchange of the land of revenue road and expressed that it’s ready to give an equivalent size of the land to gram panchayat.
 
 During the investigation by DTCP, it was found that the administration had given a portion of the revenue road to the developer on lease from 2017 to 2020 on a condition that it would not be used for any other purpose. However, the developer has allegedly merged this land with colony, and is using it for surface parking, violating the rules.
 
 A spokesperson for Godrej Properties said the developer had given a detailed reply with supporting documents to the department. “We are not aware about the letter written to police,” he said. 
 
 
 
