Nagpur: Considering risk to life of rape survivor and the unborn child, Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court on Wednesday dismissed her plea for terminating 30-week-old pregnancy. Relying on the specially constituted medical board’s report that there could be a live baby inside the womb, the bench pointed out the petitioner approached court at a “belated stage”.

 “Considering the risk factor involved in premature termination and foetus age, in our view, would endanger not only the petitioner's life, but also that of the child. Even the medical board’s report and expert’s opinion do not favour the termination,” division bench of Justices Shantanu Kemkar and Nitin Sambre said.
 
 Quoting the ‘Medical Termination of Pregnancy (MTP) Act, 1971’, the 32 years-old poor survivor knocked judiciary’s doors last week for termination of pregnancy. The mother of two from Buldhana prayed for directives to the Khamgaon General Hospital for terminating her pregnancy, contending that giving birth to the third child would cause her trauma and latter it would also suffer socially.
 
 On Tuesday, HC directed constitution of board comprising expert doctors from Indira Gandhi Government Medical College (IGGMC) and Hospital to examine whether the survivor’s pregnancy could safely be terminated. Accordingly, she was examined at OPD on Wednesday morning by a team led by Obstetrics and Gynaecology Department head Dr Shashank Uikey. The board’s report was submitted to HC by government pleader (GP) Sumant Deopujari, additional GP Sagar Ashirgade and Mugdha Chandurkar. It was opposed by petitioner’s counsel Sweety Bhatia.
 
 The board reached the conclusion that it was a case of 28 to 30 weeks of gestation with history of two previous caesarean section deliveries. The ultrasonography reports suggested 30-31 weeks of live pregnancy, with intrauterine growth retardation with mild prominence of posterior horn of lateral ventricle (which is compatible with life). In its report submitted to HC at 2.30pm, the board clarified pregnancy could be terminated up to 20 weeks of gestation as per MTP Act. 
 
 “The pregnancy can be terminated beyond 20 weeks under exceptional obstetric and medical conditions, provided there is substantial risk to the life of either mother or foetus. This petitioner is already at 30-31 weeks of gestation and hence the pregnancy can’t be terminated,” the judges ruled, while quoting the board’s report.
 
 Earlier, Dr Uikey, who was present in the hearing, informed that the petitioner had twice undergone cesareans while giving birth to her two children. “In these circumstances, the present termination will also have to be carried out by caesarean and even delivery after normal period of pregnancy would require caesarean.” 
 
 When justice Kemkar asked him possibility of risk factor in both operations, the expert clarified premature caesarean would carry higher risk than one to be done after completion of pregnancy period. He added the petitioner was not staying with her husband and divorce case was pending. In the meantime, she was raped multiple times by the accused house owner since September 22 last year. “She had visited a local doctor for terminating pregnancy after realizing about it after one and half months. She was administered some tablets by the doctor concerned, but that failed to work, forcing her to take shelter of judiciary,” he said.
 
 
