KANPUR: Police have arrested a woman posing as a sub-inspector (SI) of police during   from Reserve Police Lines in   on Friday. The suspect, identified as Santoshi Rajput, a native of Etawah district, was taken into custody soon for further questioning.

 According to police, a woman in police uniform had come to the Reserve Police Lines to take part in   parade on Friday morning.
 
 The police personnel taking part in the Republic Day parade however had doubts of woman being an SI.
 
 "As she had fitted a police badge on her uniform in a wrong manner, other policemen raised alarm following which she was taken into custody for questioning and taken to Kotwali police station," said a police official taking part in Republic Day parade at Reserve Police Lines of Auraiya.
 
 Initially, she told policemen at the police station that she was recently appointed as a sub-inspector of police, however, she failed to produce her joining letter.
 
 "Though, she produced her I-card and claimed herself to be a sub-inspector of police, but she could not show investigators her joining letter," said a police official. 
 
 The police found her behaviour suspicious and later contacted her family members after procuring family details from her.
 
 The investigators thereafter managed to speak to her husband, who alleged that his wife is suffering from some kind of mental disease. “Her husband told investigators that she had left home in Etawah on Thursday for Auraiya without informing anyone,” said the police.
 
 However, during sustained interrogation, woman broke down and admitted she was not a sub-inspector of police. She however told the police that she was fascinated with the job of a police officer and recently had attempted SI exams, and in the process, she decided to take part in Republic Day parade.
 
 Police are now probing whether she had cheated anyone while posing as a sub-inspector of police.
 
 Superintendent of Police, Auraiya, Sanjeev Tyagi, meanwhile said: “Though, her husband had claimed that his wife is mentally ill, but we are trying as to from where she had managed to procure police uniform and an I-card, and also whether she had duped anyone while impersonating as an SI."
 
