When Sreejith Kumar was invited to a pre-wedding get-together of his Palakkaran achayan friend, all he expected was some prayers, party and booze. 

 When he saw a bunch of girls at the venue, with their faces smeared with something yellow, he was curious. “What happened to their skin?” “We are having a   ceremony, silly! They’re just waiting for the cameras to capture it, before washing it off,” his friend said. North Indian haldi ceremony? At a Malayali, Christian wedding? “Oh yes! And the bride’s family is holding a   night tomorrow, before the wedding day after,” Sreejith was told.
 
 Don’t bother about what their original cultural significance is, but haldi,  , mehndi, madhuramvaippu… a slew of new-age ceremonies, cutting across religion and caste, are winning the hearts of Kerala’s soon-to-be-married lot, in the recent times. Our weddings now are hardly sober events consisting of a wish-the-couple, get-the-food affair and have many new customs being added to the ever expanding list. If you thought only Fahadh-Nazriya and other high profile couples opted for mehndi and other such non-Malayali customs, think again. The middle class is embracing them like never before.
 
 
 
 Wedding planner Bijimol Basheer says that alongside customs like haldi and mehndi that are very popular now, there are also a few from Northern Kerala that are becoming popular in other areas of the State. “For instance, the valima ceremony or the wedding home coming, which are common in Thalassery Muslim weddings. They are similar to the baraats of North Indian weddings. There are many who are keen to include that function into their weddings, regardless of religion and recently, we did it at a wedding in Thrissur.” Another one that is gaining currency is the arikuthicheral, which is done by families on the wedding eve, to bless the to-be-married couple. This originated in Thalassery, but it’s not limited to the place or Muslims, anymore.” Apparently, there are also people who ask for ideas to make it not so smooth for the bride and groom on the wedding night, similar to the sura kalyanam custom in various parts of Northern Kerala.
 Similarly, the western wedding reception game aka the ‘Shoe Game,’ in which guests ask hilarious questions to the couple, who hold their shoes in their hands and lift up the right one by way of answer, is another custom people borrow now, Biji says. “It’s is proving to be a big hit for its fun quotient.”
 Shana Selvam, another wedding planner, says, “The sangeeth or mehndi nights can vary from client to client, for the way in which they are executed. For instance, for the recent wedding of actress Aima Sebastian with producer Kevin Paul, we had Prasanna master choreograph dance for all age groups in the family. He also arrived at the venue in an open autorickshaw, with trumpets and dholwalas from Mumbai.”
 The couple also had a wish tree at the wedding venue, on which everybody wrote a wish for their well-being. “After the ceremony, we roll them all and put them in a jar, which they can open for their first anniversary. Wish tree is very common now,” Shana adds. Other emerging practices include the planting of a tree, together, by the new couple and writing the phone numbers and details of the bride and groom in a bottle, sealing it tight, and throwing it off to the sea. If someone finds it and decides to call them, from another shore, it’s like a piece of the wedding memory preserved elsewhere,” she adds.
 
 
 
 For Joseph George and Anna Philip who recently got married in Kottayam, the haldi night was an occasion to interact with friends who came from all over the country, for their wedding. “On the actual wedding day, you hardly get time for it. However, events like haldi give you some breathing time to mix with the guests,” Anna says. Unlike in the past, the young generation want to make their wedding a fun occasion to remember, rather than just having a solemn day with a lot of tension, wedding planners say.
 
 Lekshmy Deepak, a wedding planner, says, “Including such borrowed customs or ceremonies is mainly to inject some fun into the event. Moreover, they make your special day a little different and memorable.” Bijimol says: “While those who want to have some fun do that, the actual wedding can also be conducted in all seriousness, just the way the elders want it. Actually, we have even conducted ceremonies with just friends of the couple.”
 Shana says that more people from Kerala, across age groups, are now game to try them out. “I feel that Keralites are much better at adapting these customs. And if they add to the happiness at the occasion, why not?”
 
