PUNE: It had been a tough last week for Chennai Super Kings (CSK). First   sustained a calf muscle injury and missed a CSK game for the first time in 11 seasons. The side was then forced out of their home — the MA Chidambaram Stadium — due to Cauvery protests. To make matters worse,   hurt his back in the side’s last game against Kings XI Punjab. However, it seems now that the dust has finally settled as CSK are ready to take fresh guard at their new home — the MCA Stadium at Gahunje here — when they face   on Friday.

 
 
 
 The fact that both Dhoni and Raina are likely to be fit for the match is a major boost for CSK. While Dhoni, who skipped practice on Wednesday, batted for almost an hour and showed no signs of discomfort in depositing the bowlers to the stands, Raina, who was initially ruled out for two games, too slogged it out at the nets for a lengthy duration. A CSK source also informed that Dhoni is set to keep wickets too. CSK batting coach Mike Hussey said that Dhoni has assured him that he will take the field on Friday. “Dhoni told me that he is feeling better than before. Raina has showed tremendous recovery. So we are confident that both will be playing tomorrow’s game. Still we don’t want to take any chances. We will assess their condition before taking a final call,” Hussey said at the pre-match press conference on Thursday.
 
 
 
 Dhoni’s presence will be crucial for CSK. Not only has he struck form with an unbeaten 79, but he also has the experience of playing at the venue for the last two years as part of Rising Pune Supergiant. The Super Kings, who have always relied on their efficient teamwork, will bank on his expertise and charisma to make an impact again, especially after losing their last match by a narrow margin.
 
 But it won’t be easy for CSK. Rajasthan Royals had lost their last match against Kolkata Knight Riders at their home and will be aiming to make amends. In batting, the Royals will bank on Sanju Samson, who has scored 185 runs so far, and captain Ajinkya Rahane who has been given them the crucial starts as the opener. But what has hurt the Royals is Ben Stokes’ failure to rise to the occasion with both bat and ball. Rahane & Co will surely hope that Stokes will come to the party on Friday.
 
 
 
 
 In a match that will also see the two former champions coming face to face for the first time after being banned for two years, much will depend on how the teams work out their strategy. Pune was chosen at the last moment as CSK’s base and it will host the first match of this   season. The pitch at the MCA Stadium will offer a bit for the pacers and Dhoni, who had a lengthy chat with the groundsmen after the nets, might make a change in strategy with David Willey coming in place of Imran Tahir and Karn Sharma replacing either Shardul Thakur or Deepak Chahar.
 
 Both Willey and Karn bowled at the nets for quite a while. “We have been a spin-heavy side. Now, we do have to make some small adjustments. But we are not worried. We have enough depth in our squad and we will be ready for the match,” Hussey said.
 
