LUCKNOW: In a bid to crack down on education mafia which facilitate mass copying in   examinations, the state government is all set to rope in the Special Task Force ( ) of UP Police to curb the menace.

 UP’s deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma said hereon Friday that STF personnel would be provided with a list of schools where students come only to take exams, and not to attend classes.
 
 Such schools, which are mostly private, become centres for rampant cheating during examinations.
  
  
 Ahead of the UP Board examinations, deputy CM Sharma, during a video-conferencing to take stock of preparation, instructed the district inspector of schools (DIOS) to involve STF commandos to check the menace of organised mass cheating in the board exams in ‘highly sensitive’ and ‘sensitive’ districts. STF personnel, said officials, would be present in the periphery of ‘notorious’ examination centres, and will cordon off the entry and exit points. They will also assist the flying squads deployed to check use of unfair means.
 
 Higher education officials said this was likely to be the first time when STF personnel would be roped in by any state to curb mass copying. Even in  , infamous for rampant cheating, education department deploys district armed police (DAP) and homeguards to keep a vigil on the students and teachers.
 
 This year, 67% of UP’s 75 districts have been declared ‘sensitive’ for class X and XII UP Board examinations. According to the  , the number of districts earning the dubious distinction has jumped from 31last year to 50.
 
 Mass copying has been reported from districts like Aligarh, Agra, Mainpuri, Chitrakoot, Allahabad, Kanpur, Barabanki, Bareilly, Bahraich, Etawah, Ghazipur, Ballia, Azamgarh and many others which are put under the ‘sensitive’ zone.
 
 In the UP Board class X and XII examinations beginning from February 6, 67.29 lakh students have registered, 6.68 lakh more than 2017. As many as 37,12,508 students have registered online for class X examinations. Of them, 1,14,367 are private candidates.
 
 
 
 
 A total of 30,17,032 students, have registered for class XII examination — 1,53,039 of them being private candidates.
 
 Over years, the menace of organised mass copying has diluted the brand value of UP board.
 
 In the absence of any political will shown by the successive governments to stop it, barring the introduction of an anti-copying ordinance by the present Union home minister   in 1991-92 when he was the state’s education minister, education mafia have thrived in the state.
 
 Cited as on of the reasons for BJP’s loss in the 1993 UP polls, the anti-copying act even provided for jail to students caught copying.
 
 Later, it was amended and reintroduced in a milder form which failed to have an impact.
 
 Former IAS officer SP Singh, who led an anti-copying movement during the previous SP government, said that though the plan for deployment of STF appeared like a gimmick, he won’t reject it. However, the first step to check the menace was installation of CCTV cameras at examination centres.
 
 “Besides, the government should state what powers will the STF personnel have? Will they arrest those facilitating cheating? Education mafia in UP are not armed. They are principals, teachers, guardians and students themselves, and the entire process of cheating is done clandestinely. If the government was determined to crack down, it should have spent some money on installing CCTV cameras.
 
