NEW DELHI: Four famous Sikh shrines in Delhi, including   and Bangla Sahib gurdwaras will go green and use   to meet their daily power needs from April. 

 The four gurdwaras --   Bangla Sahib, Rakab Ganj, Nanak Piao and Majnu Ka Tila -- will get rooftop solar panels with a total capacity of 1 Mega   (MW), said  , the president of Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC).
 
 "The commissioning of solar plants will be completed by March-end," he said, adding a ceremony will be held next week to start work on the project.
 
 A company enlisted with the   (SECI) has been selected through competitive bidding, for executing the project, GK said, adding a power purchase agreement has also been signed and the DSGMC is likely to save around Rs 60 lakh per year as power bill.
 
 The solar project is a tribute to the 7th Sikh Guru Har Rai whose love for the nature and teaching for its preservation inspire the community to take care of the environment, he added. 
 
 The DSGMC president said the project will generate around 4,000 units power per day, touching approximately 1.3 million units per year.
 
 "It will allow the gurdwaras to use peak-hour load during the day. The solar project will work on photo voltaic effects and around 3,125 solar panels will be placed on rooftops of these gurudwaras for tapping cheap and clean power," he said. 
 
 Stating that 1 MW solar power reduces 1,300 tons of CO2 emission a year, he expressed hope that over 25 years, the project will reduce around 30,000 metric tons of CO2 emission. 
 
 Harjit Singh, who is the head of the renewable energy wing of the DSGMC, said the capacity of the project will be increased from 1 MW to 2 MW to meet growing future demands of these shrines. "Efforts will be made to bring other gurdwaras under the net of clean energy too."
 
 "Other green measures like biogas project, langar waste and water management, heating, ventilation and air conditioning (HVAC) energy saving projects are also being implemented by the renewable energy wing," he added. 
 
 
