LUCKNOW: Mriganka Singh, the daughter of   leader Hukum Singh, whose death has necessitated a keenly watched byelection in the communally sensitive Kairana, has asserted that she has first-hand evidence that Hindu families which had migrated during the exodus in 2016 have returned to coexist with Muslims in the towns.

 Her statement comes at a time when the Congress and   (RLD) have nearly forged an alliance for a joint candidate.
 
 Mriganka told TOI that her father’s “secular beliefs” have won hearts in the past and that BJP’s win—which she feels is certain—will be another endorsement of Hukum Singh’s legacy, adding that the 2016 migration controversy was “exaggerated by locals.”
 
 “I have knowledge of at least three Hindu families which owned shops in Kairana and have returned to run them. Locals exaggerated the number of Hindus who migrated while providing information to my father. This was later clarified in a report by then-UP BJP president Keshav Maurya. My father had a following among both Hindus and Muslims and they will both support us in the byelection,” said Mriganka.
 
 Hukum Singh had released a list of 346 Hindu families, alleging that they migrated from the town, but later ruled out any communal angle, saying extortionists in the area had killed 11 people and Kairana had become the “new Kashmir.”
 
 Of the 16-lakh electorate in Kairana, 5 lakh are Muslims.
 
 Refusing to comment on her possible candidature, Mriganka said that she had been living in Kairana for two years with her father and continues to “nurture” the seat, abdicating the family-run school to her daughter in Ghaziabad.
 
 “I don’t want to comment on the candidature. It’s a decision best left to the national president. But personally, it will be a privilege for any daughter to carry her father’s legacy. I shifted to Kairana from Ghaziabad two years ago and began living with my father. I routinely visit villages,” she said.
 
 Joining the controversy over a forced Ghar Wapsi by Bajrang Dal men of a Dalit youth who took up Islam, Mriganka, who is a postgraduate in history from Ajmer, said that she would never endorse any verbal or physical assault on an individual embracing a new religion.
 
 “We have to respect the Constitution. No person should ever force any religion on anyone. That’s how society can progress,” she said.
 
