LUDHIANA: Seeing the huge burden of stroke in the country, the Indian Council of Medical Research ( ) has funded a new and innovative initiative for the first time, called Indian Stroke Clinical Trial Network (INSTRuCT). The   and Hospital (CMCH) has been made the national coordinating centre for this project. This is for the first time that 4,900 patients across the country will be examined on one platform, and doctors will analyze the patients whether treatment made any difference to their condition or not. 

 This project is the brainchild of CMCH principal, professor Jeyaraj D Pandian, who is also a stroke expert. Recently, he had conducted a study on stroke patients, and it was highlighted that more than 1,500 new cases occur in one lakh adult patients every year in Ludhiana alone. Interestingly, his study also broke the misnomer that the urban population is more at risk of such diseases, as in his study, the number of rural patients were more than the urban population.
 
 Dr Pandian shared that INSTRuCT is a network of 27 stroke centres in the country, and in a tenure of 3.5 years, they will study 4,900 patients with problems of stroke, and the results will then be analyzed. He said here patients had a common habit of not completing their course of medicines, which resulted in a second stroke attack. Therefore, under this trial, they have devised three methods to remind patients about their medicines, exercise, and other preventions. “Under the first method, we have got 76 messages designed, which will be forwarded to patients. Seven videos have also been prepared under the second method. In the thrid method, a 40-page workbook will be given to patients, who will be asked to conduct one activity each day,” he added.
 
 Meanwhile, Dr  , senior scientist from the Non-Communicable Diseases department of ICMR inaugurated the INSTRuCT network. She said ICMR was currently supporting two stroke trials in the network. More centres will be added this year to the existing network. She said they were hoping to answer many issues related to stroke, which are relevant to our country through this multi-centre collaboration. In addition to India-centric stroke trials, global trials will also be done in this network.
 
 CMCH director Dr William Bhatti appreciated the efforts of the institution’s Neurology department, and the ICMR in creating the infrastructure for stroke clinical trials in the country. Dr Mahesh Kate, co-principal investigator for   trial stated that text, video messages, and workbook will be used to modify behaviour to reduce the burden of second stroke. In this trial, 4,900 patients will be recruited across the nation (27 centres) over the next four years.
 
 Dr Pandian added that another trial called Restore, in which the effectiveness of ayurvedic treatment (Panchkarma) will be tested in the recovery of stroke patients after one month of stroke. This trial will be done in three centres in the country — CMC Ludhiana, Amrita Institute of Medical Sciences (AIMS) Kochi, and   (SCTIMST), Trivandrum.
 
 INSTRuCT network is also collaborating with the Global Alliance of Networks in Stroke (Gains) which includes NIH Strokenet USA, Canadian Stroke Consortium, UK Stroke Network, and Australia Stroke Network. 
 
 STROKE: SYMPTOMS & CAUSES
 
 What Is Stroke?
 
 Stroke is a brain attack, when blockage occurs in the arteries of the brain. There are two types of strokes: 
 
 1. Ischemic Stroke: Brain damage due to blockage of arteries in the brain.
 
 2. Brain Hemorrhage: Blood leaks from vessel wall. 
 
 (The first one is more common) 
 
 Causes:
 
 High blood pressure 
 
 Obesity 
 
 Diabetes 
 
 High cholesterol 
 
 Lack of exercise
 
 Symptoms:
 
 Sudden paralysis of one side of the body, including feet 
 
 Sudden numbness on one side of the body 
 
 Giddiness, headache, vomiting, loss of consciousness 
 
 Sudden trouble in speaking 
 
 
