SURAT: Human rights activists, retired government officials, lawyers and social workers have come together to form a non-political organization ‘Ekta Parishad’ to voice issues and problems faced by the Dalits, tribals, other backward classes (OBCs) and the minority community.

 The first convention of   was held at Mangrol in Surat district on Thursday where leaders exhorted people to stay away from the politics of divide and rule on the basis of caste and religion. 
 
 Ekta Parishad president Suresh Vasava said, “The aim of Ekta Parishad is to fight for the rights of the downtrodden, backward communities,   and tribals. We will be visiting all the villages and talukas in the district and south   to register like-minded people as members. This is a non-political organization of the people and by the people.”
 
 Vasava said Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar’s name is used by political parties for their personal gains. The Constitution framed by Babasaheb is being hardly followed in the country. 
 
 Vasava said, “Tribal areas are getting backward day-by-day and the cooperative sector has literally become a battlefield of political parties. They are highlighting issues on communal lines to arouse passion of Hindus and Muslims. At present, there are many villages in Gujarat which do not have proper drinking water facilities, transportation and healthcare, but the government is mum.”
 
 Surat district panchayat member Darshan Nayak said, “Many elected representatives, including MPs and MLAs, are interested only in minting money, rather than solving the problems of people in their constituencies. Ekta Parishad is needed to fight against politicians and government officials who don’t work for the people.”
 
 Social activist Rashid Patel said, “The parishad will be working for effective implementation of central and state government schemes for the poor. Many poor and downtrodden people are unaware of government schemes. We plan to set up offices in each and every taluka of Surat district in the coming days.”
 
 
