Chandigarh: With no respite to the households in Sector 41, the residents are forced to call tankers everyday to meet their daily needs of water.

 The residents of Audit Pool Colony in Sector 41 C are forced to struggle everyday just to get their daily water supply. The locals said they have been struggling for every drop of water. In the absence of adequate water supply, these tanks are no less than lifelines for them. 
 
 The locals in Sector 41 C and B have been struggling more since the beginning of the new year, as water had stopped pumping in the supply pipes due due to a technical glitch. The problem is more chronic for the house owners living on the second and the third floors. They have not received a single drop of water for the past several days, they complained.
 
 The locals also claimed that they have to get up very early in the morning just to store water. However, owing to absence of adequate water supply, it is also not possible to store required amount of water.
 
  Lubna Toona, a resident, said, “I had to call water tankers as the over head tanks dried. The tanks hardly have water as the low pressure fails to pump water in the over head tanks.” She also complained about the online facility of the concerned department two days ago but to no avail.
 
 The water tankers make rounds in the society several times in a day to fulfil the water demands of the 245 households in the societies.
 
 Nitin Kumar , a resident, said, “Water is the most essential thing that is needed in any household. Here, it is no less than a struggle to get adequate supply of water for every activity round the clock.” There is no water even for drinking purposes, he added. 
 
 The residents complained that even the landline and cellphone numbers of the municipal corporation water works department are lying defunct, and are hardly of any help. Even if the team from the concerned departments come to check the problem, it is seldom resolved.
 
 Another local resident claimed that every year since 2012, summers are the most troubled times as no water is available. “Since there are children in almost every household, water is all the more needed for various purposes,” she added.
 
 With summers ahead, residents fear worsening of the condition and going through a similar trauma just as what they go through every year. They await solutions for the issue of  .
 
 
