Nagpur: Indian Institute of Management Nagpur (IIM-N) director LS Murthy took charge more than a year ago. With him, several developments like appointment of new faculty members, entrepreneurship programme for students, pushing the construction of new facility at Mihan, etc, have been started. The institute has been functioning from temporary premises at Visvesvaraya National Institute of Technology (VNIT). A day before IIM-N’s 2nd convocation, in an exclusive interview with TOI Murthy speaks about future plans, role of faculty members, students’ contribution and rebranding of placement cell as career development services. 

 Q. This year, you achieved 100% placements. Reason for this?
 
 A. Rather than calling it placement cell, we prefer to say career development services. Several aspects have to be carefully considered with the placement process. A delicate balance has to be maintained between students’ interest and industry needs. Eventually, even a good product needs marketing and that’s where the career development services play their part.
 
 Q. Tell us more about career development services?
 
 A. This cell doesn’t work on landing the students a regular 9 to 5 job. It also works on entrepreneurship. In case a student is not interested in participating in campus placement we provide them the option of going for entrepreneurship. In case that doesn’t work out, they have the window of coming back after two years for campus placement again.
 
 Q. What are the other activities related to developing entrepreneurship?
 
 A. We are part of Women Start up Programme (WSP). We have tied up with IIM-Bangalore’s NS Raghavan (NSR) Centre for Entrepreneurship Learning. They invite women from outside IIMs. These participants go through several stages before getting trained by IIMs. This time, we groomed 30 women from Mumbai, Pune and Nagpur. Under the programme, they get a stipend of Rs30,000 per month besides all facilities like infrastructure, expertise, mentoring, etc
 
 Q. What are plans for new premises in Mihan, when are you planning to shift?
 
 A. Our plans are slightly delayed. Probably, we could shift by 2020. Work for our new premises is yet to begin, but we have fenced off the 130-acre area allocated to us. We have also conducted soil testing and have appointed a project manager who will implement building plans. Our board and building committees, which were required to take ahead the infrastructure plans, are now constituted. We are not in a haste and want to be more creative. Infrastructure is serious and significant constraint, but we hope to expedite the process as much as we can.
 
 Q. How many regular faculty members have been appointed?
 
 A. Right now seven are there and they all have PhDs. Some more will join. Recruitment of faculty is a tedious job. It consumes a lot of time but you need to carefully check track records, teaching experience and readiness of the candidates. I don’t want to take hasty decisions.
 
 Q. Did IIM-N makes irresistible offers as you said last year?
 
 A. Well, irresistible offer doesn’t mean money alone. Good faculty members also look at academic freedom they would get here, research scope, say in designing course and funds. We are providing adequate ambience to entice the best.
 
 
