NEW DELHI: Former India captain   believes that   should bowl South African fast bowler   at the death as their   play-offs campaign starts today against Sunrisers Hyderabad, instead of going for their usual late-overs option, Dwayne Bravo. 

 
 
 
 
 CSK, who finished the league stage second on the points table behind  , have regularly conceded big totals in IPL 2018 but their batting might and depth has allowed them to chase most of their targets. 
 
 
 
 
 "Chennai Super Kings have struggled with their death bowling. Ngidi, in my opinion, is a better option than Bravo at the end. Ngidi's pace can be unsettling while Bravo becomes a touch predictable towards the final overs," wrote Srikkanth, who captained India in four Test matches and 13 ODIs, in today's TOI. 
 
 Bravo has taken 11 wickets from 14 matches to be CSK's second most successful bowler this season after  , but his economy rate of 10.15 is very high. Ngidi has the best economy rate for CSK (6.11) from five matches, and his nine wickets has mostly come up front when his pace has ratted opposition batsmen. 
 
 Reflecting on the league stage of the tournament, Srikkanth lauded SRH skipper   for his batting and captaincy and   for his all-round performances, several of which helped CSK chase stiff targets from positions of despair. 
 
 "In more ways than one, the league standing is a fair reflection of the men who led the top teams. Kane Williamson with 661 runs at an outstanding average of 60 and striking at 143 per 100 balls, ensured the former champions hardly missed David Warner at the top," he wrote. "Another area where Williamson stood out was setting the example in the field with some excellent fielding that helped him lead from the front. Tactically he was superior as well. He never went to the sixth bowler unless it was absolutely necessary. This helped the team discover a settled bowling combination right at the start."
 
 As for Dhoni, Srikkanth, who a few years ago served as team advisor for CSK, just said it was a case of "Dhoni simply being Dhoni throughout".
 
 "In a team of massive strikers, the skipper still holds the best strike rate, that by itself explains what he has done. An average close to 90 while cracking 446 runs and add those quicksilver stumpings and catches, one cannot propose a better all-round package. Personally I relished the freedom with which Dhoni started each of his innings," he wrote.
 
