MARGAO: For the last three generations, the lives of these villagers revolved largely around mining. 

 Costi in Kalay and the adjoining hamlets of Ambeudak and Dukorkond in the Sanvordem panchayat area saw the devastation of their lands by the mines, yet the villagers owed their existence to the booming mining trade. With the Supreme Court-imposed closure of 88 mining leases having come into force, villagers are now left in the lurch, both by the mining companies and the state government, in so far as their basic needs are concerned.
 
 Tracing the development of Costi into a rural community centred around mining, old timers pointed out that the steady growth of the mining industry in the late 70s led to immigration of people from north Goa to the south for mid-level employment in the mines. “The mining companies provided them with family accommodation by building residential colonies in Costi. Mining companies also provided these new settlers with transport facilities to ferry their children to schools in Curchorem, Sanvordem and vicinity. As Curchorem was the nearest market place, mining firms also provided them with regular bus services from Costi to Curchorem and back. Gradually, new townships emerged amidst the dust and din of the mining trade,” a villager explained. 
 
 The locals were absorbed in the mines mostly as casual labourers, while the more enterprising ones bought trucks and vehicles to be engaged in the mines. 
 
 However, with the retirement of migrant mine workers and entry of locals in the mid-segment positions, the colonies disappeared. “A symbiotic relationship thus developed between the villagers and the mining firms, as the villagers depended on the mines for their employment and other basic infrastructural support - the daily supply of potable water through tankers to the villages, the transport service,” a villager pointed out.
 
 It is exactly this reliance of the locals on the mines for their basic needs that has put their lives in peril following the shutdown of mining activities in the village.
 
 Amar Naik, a lawyer from the village, who has been fighting for the cause of environment protection, expressed his indignation over the local panchayat bodies and the government, too, shirking their responsibility of providing potable water to the villagers. “The mining companies would pump out water from the mining pits or tailing ponds and supply it to the villagers through tankers - they never thought of laying pipelines to supply tap water. The government could very well construct a reservoir to store and supply water to the villagers through taps – sadly, the government abdicated its duty ,” Amar said.
 
 Panchayat member and former sarpanch of Sanvordem, Sanjay Naik said “The government should now intervene and work out a solution to the water woes at the earliest, before the patience of the villagers runs out.” Similar is the case with the public transport system. “With not a single KTC bus plying through Costi, villagers depend largely on mines-sponsored transport or the irregular private bus service to take them to Curchorem for their purchases,” Amar said.
 
 “Mining firms also sponsor computer classes for students and rural medical infrastructure. These facilities may be withdrawn now,” Sanjay said.
 
 
