One-and-a-half years after making it mandatory for cinemas to play the national anthem before every film, the  , last week, accepted the Central government’s suggestion to reverse the idea. According to the apex court’s latest order, it’s no longer mandatory for film exhibition bodies to play the national anthem before a film.

 However, the Centre has put forth that a final call can be taken only after a ministerial panel sets guidelines. So, discretion on the issue lies with the government, the court has said, adding that if cinema halls do play the national anthem, the audience must stand up. The differently-abled, however, are exempt from complying with the order.
 
 The Union Home Ministry had filed an affidavit following the national debate that ensued in October 2016, when it was made mandatory to play the national anthem in theatres. In December 2017, the ministry formed an inter-ministerial committee, headed by a special secretary-rank officer. The panel also has 10 members, one each from the ministries of Home, Defence, External Affairs, Culture,   & Child Development, Information & Broadcasting, Minority Affairs, Law, Human Resources Development and from the Department of Empowerment of Persons with Disabilities. The committee has to submit its report in six months.
 
 
 Nitin  , the head of the Cinema Owners and Exhibitors Association of India, believes that the panel should have included members from the exhibitors’ fraternity. Recalling that the national anthem was previously played at the end of a movie, he says that although it was a matter of pride for the exhibitors, controlling people after the screening wasn’t easy. “The audience would get restless after the movie. Many exhibitors had told me back then that they had to literally bolt the doors and then play the national anthem. In the early 2000s, it was decided that the Anthem will be played before the film,” says Datar, adding that even that has its own set of issues.
 
 Datar explains, “People are rushing to find their seats, munching popcorn, drinking coffee or cold drinks, or simply holding the food items in their hands while the anthem is playing out. That, too, is not right. So, we have to find a practical way out. For that, the ministerial committee should have included a few representatives from the exhibitors’ fraternity. As far as I know, all the exhibitors plan to continue playing the national anthem until told otherwise.”
 
 
 Deepak Asher, the president of the Multiplex Association of India, believes that the ball is now in the exhibitors’ court, and each one can decide what works for them. However, he was quick to direct our attention to a previous decision implemented in Chandigarh and Maharashtra. “The governments of these territories had made it mandatory for the anthem to be played before films. If that notification stays, the theatres in Chandigarh and Maharashtra will have to play the anthem. Having said that, I don’t think we will make a decision for the cinema halls. They will decide for themselves,” he says.
 
 
 We approached a couple of Chennai exhibitors for comment, and here is what they had to say. “A lot of discussions are happening with respect to playing of National Anthem in theatres. There are a few who suggest that it could be played during special days and on festive occasions. Then there are some who feel that the anthem should be played only for morning shows and not for the other shows. We are still playing it during all our shows, and unlike a few cinema halls, no untoward incident had happened in my theatre complex,” says Rakesh Gowthaman of Vettri Theatres.
 Valliappan of Kamala Cinemas says, “We haven’t received any notification regarding playing of National Anthem. But most of the films which are sent to us have the anthem attached to them. As far as the audience does not have an issue with the anthem, I don’t want to stop playing it on my screens. I have always observed that audience here have been welcoming the anthem with full spirit. Moreover, I’m a person who always feels pride in giving respect to the anthem, so there in’t any initiative my side to stop it in my theatre.”
 
 
 Bigg Boss Tamil winner and actor Arav says, “We don’t get to hear the national anthem much, other than on national festivals. Playing the anthem in the movie halls was made mandatory to bring about a sense of patriotism among citizens on a regular basis. I think there are many more issues prevailing in our country that we should focus on. We need to address the issues of farmers and fishermen, who are currently in the state of decline.”
 
 
 Talking about the national anthem videos in theatres, most of us can’t forget the one featuring our brave soldiers posted at   and the instrumental rendition, featuring top instrumentalists of the country. Both the videos were created by filmmaker Bharat  , whose father was a freedom fighter. 
 
 Bala admits that he spent from his own pocket to create the videos, because two decades ago, he couldn’t find a video or a rendition of the anthem that could truly inspire.
 
 About the Supreme Court’s latest decision, he says, “From the very beginning, I’ve believed that playing the national anthem at cinemas should not be mandatory. I welcome the court’s decision because I think whenever and wherever the anthem plays, it must automatically invoke a sense of national pride. That sentiment should not be and cannot be forced. If something inspires them, they will display it themselves. Why should there be a situation where people reluctantly stand up for the anthem? Forced patriotism is not patriotism.”
 
