TRICHY: A 16-year-old government school student’s passion for science and innovation is set to take him all the way to Japan. M Hariharan is among six students from the state and the only one from   district to be part of the Japan-Asia youth exchange programme in science. 

 A student of government boy’s higher secondary school at  , he will be in Japan from May 12-19 as part of the programme to raise the interest of Asian youth in Japanese science and technology initiatives. They are also set to visit Japanese universities, research institutions and private companies. 
 
 Raised by a single parent from a humble agricultural family, Hariharan has written his plus 2 board examination and is awaiting results. Aspiring to be a researcher, he also nurtures dreams of becoming a doctor and is preparing for NEET as well. However, it all started when he was in Class 6 and developing his first project. 
 
 “While nuclear fuel and its recycling was much debated, I decided to find a solution through a project when I was 11 years old. However, it was rejected at the preliminary stage citing the fact that it was impractical, says Hariharan. It was then that he decided to take up issues pertaining to environmental degradation and provide feasible solutions. He took up a project on the ways to effectively treat effluent rich in chromium let out from leather tanneries. He found its solution in CN 4 Napier grass- a sugarcane variety which had the capacity to absorb high chromium content in water. 
 
 He is a two-time recipient of Innovation in Science Pursuit for Inspired Research (INSPIRE) award sponsored by the Department of Science & Technology for attracting talent to science. It was the ecological sanitation compost toilet he developed which got him the young scientist award from the Union government apart from helping him grab the opportunity to visit Japan. His mentor and guide in the school, P  , said that the toilet became popular for the ecofriendly method suggested by him without polluting the environment. 
 
 
