TRICHY: Aimed at reducing the amount of food waste reaching the dump yard, preliminary works to install a biogas plant inside Sri Ranganathaswamy temple at   commenced on Tuesday. The food waste would thus be used constructively for producing biogas which can be utilised as cooking gas. 

 Through the upcoming facility, the kitchen in Srirangam temple — that serves thousands of people under annadhanam scheme each day — would conserve 1 to 1.5 LPG cooking cylinders a day and save approximately Rs 50,000 a month. At an estimated cost of Rs 25.5 lakh, the biogas plant would come up on about 200 sqft area near the kitchen for annadhanam scheme at the temple. With at least 2,000 people consuming meals through annadhanam at the temple a day, the kitchen preparing food for the needy has been using three LPG cylinders a day. 
 
 It was the conglomerate   which proposed producing biogas from the food waste generated as part of green temple mission. The initiative was subsequently accepted by the HR&CE department. “The biogas production project was being implemented under the banner of   and funded under the corporate social responsibility (CSR) initiative of ITC Mangaldeep. Exnora will be the implementing agency of the project that produces energy from food waste,” C  , honorary president of   district Exnora, said. 
 
 Solid waste management experts said that the biogas was a naturally occurring mixture of methane, carbon dioxide (CO2) and hydrogen sulphide (H2S) generated from food waste. This happened during anaerobic digestion (in absence of oxygen) of food waste in a biogas reactor or chamber and subsequently is used as cooking gas. 
 
 According to the stakeholders, 30 CUM capacity of biogas plant could be produced a day from 200kg of food waste sourced from the kitchen along with cow dung from the cow shelter of the temple. The much- needed mixture inside a closed biogas chamber would generate the gas within weeks of installation of the plant under CSR initiative. 
 
 Once the plant generates biogas, it is assured that natural gas would replace the 1 to 1.5 LPG cylinder requirements in the kitchen a day. Works for completing the plant are expected to be over in the next few weeks.
 
 
