PATNA: The   (RERA), Bihar, has served show-cause notices to 14 realtors in the state, one from Delhi and two from West Bengal for advertising their project without getting registered under the Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act (RERA), 2016.

 As per the notification for formation of RERA Bihar, which came into effect on April 2 this year, the developers are required to get permanent authorization before advertising projects or entering into an agreement with customers and accepting money in advance from them. The deadline for the builders to get their ongoing and new projects registered under RERA Act 2016 is April 30.
 
 RERA Bihar chairman Afzal Amanullah said the developers and promoters have violated Section 3(1) of the RERA Act 2016 by advertising their new and existing projects between January and March without registering these under the Act.
 
 The companies who got notices include Chitra Residency, Satyamev Developcon Pvt Ltd, Sona Pro-developers, Bhawani Group, Phenomenal Projects Pvt Ltd,  ,  , Aashirwad Engicon Real Estate Pvt Ltd, R P Enclave, Real Green Homes Pvt Ltd, Apna Ashiana Homes Pvt Ltd, Asthal Properties Pvt Ltd, Gita Vihar Developers, Ecosmart Infrastructure Pvt Ltd, Delcon Homes Pvt Ltd and Virat Homes Infra Pvt Ltd.
 
 The RERA Bihar also issued separate letters to RERA Delhi and   and asked them to take action against one Delhi-based project — Delhi Housing Society — and two West Bengal projects — PS Group and Vinayak — for violating Section 3 of the RERA Act 2016.
 
 Amanullah told this newspaper over the phone from Delhi on Wednesday that all three promoters have advertised their projects in Bihar without any registration. “I have asked Delhi RERA and West Bengal RERA to take action against them for violating the Act. We can’t take action against them as it is not under our jurisdiction,” he said.
 
 RERA (Bihar) member Rajiv Bhushan Sinha said, “These developers are trying to approach the consumers in Bihar and we are trying to protect them. Anywhere in India (except J&K), nobody can advertise without giving the RERA number. These advertisements didn’t carry RERA number. So, we took up the matter with the RERA West Bengal and RERA Delhi to issue notices to them for violating the Act.”
 
 The Act makes it mandatory for the promoters to register their ongoing or new real estate project (residential, commercial,  , villa or mixed development) with more than 8 units or above 500sqmt of land area under RERA.
 
 The RERA Bihar has been established under Section 22(1) of the RERA Act. At present, 12 projects have got registered under the Act and 150 have applied for registration.
 
 
