TIRUPUR: The family of S   Prabhu, a postgraduate medical student who was found dead outside his room in a rented house in New Delhi on Wednesday, suspected foul play in his death. The 24-year-old was a student of University College of Medical Sciences (UCMS), New Delhi. 

 Sharath Prabhu is the son of P Selvamani and Kannammal. The couple, residing at Parappalayam on   in  , has a daughter as well. Selvamani is running a textile dyeing unit in the city.
 
 Speaking to TOI, Sharath Prabhu’s uncle   said, “Sharath spoke to his father and two other relatives over phone around 9.30pm on Tuesday. He was very happy. But around 7.30am on Wednesday, I received a call from one of his friends.” “The friend initially said Sharath had fallen in a toilet but later he said Sharath had fallen from his bed. A few minutes later, the friend revealed that Sharath was declared dead. The family members were clueless about the incident,” he added.
 
 “Dr Sharath was a brilliant student and he got MBBS seat on merit at the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital. Even, he meritoriously secured MD (General Medicine) seat at UCMS within one year since he completed the UG course. He joined the PG course last June,”   said. 
 
 “He was matured and always jovial but bold. Even if there was any problem, he would have informed us. But he did not say anything like that. We could not believe that he committed suicide (as suggested by preliminary investigations),” he said.
 
 This is the second death of a postgraduate medical student from Tirupur in New Delhi. In July, 2016,   Ganesan, who was studying general medicine in AIIMS, was found dead. “We suspect students who go from tier 2 and tier 3 cities to north are being harassed. Many students tell us this,” said Dr GR Ravindranath, general secretary of the Doctors for Social Equality . “Sharath’s friends say he had taken high doses of insulin. But only a postmortem can confirm this,” Ravindranath added. 
 
 Meanwhile, Saravanan’s father P Ganesan visited Sharath’s house and consoled his family members. Ganesan told media that he was afraid that the Delhi police would ‘close’ the death of Sharath as suicide as it had happened in the case of his son.
 
 
