Certain 
  journeys leave our team speechless and we cannot decide on how to do justice to them in a few words. When someone goes from a 4XL to an M, by his sheer drive and an urge to lead a better life, we are left awe-struck.  , now a nutrition and fitness consultant himself, was once at 130 kilos! The man 
  because his weight was becoming a burden he couldn't carry any more. We think it's best that you hear from the man himself, who got down from 130 kilos to 78 kilos, as only he can convince you about how he managed his unbelievable transformation.
 
 
  Siddesh Vojhala
  
 
  Nutrition and Fitness consultant
  
 
  29 years
  
 
  130 kilos
  
 
  52 kilos
  
 
  I lost the first 25 kilos in the initial 6 months, and then after reaching 90s, I met with an accident and tore my right knee's medial meniscus (ACL). I was bedridden for 6 months and was immovable. I needed a surgical walker to go to the washroom. During that period, I started reading about nutrition and resumed my journey once my knee healed. 
 
 
  
  
  I was not given a horse back ride up to the Vaishnodevi temple, simply because I was overweight. He said 'Yeh ghoda aapka wazan nahi utha sakta, Ghoda mar jayega' (This horse cannot lift your weight as it may die), which was very embarrassing. Instead he offered me a mule (on offspring of a horse and a donkey) and said, 'Yeh khachhar aapka wazan utha lega, lekin double charge lagega' (This mule can lift you but we will charge you double the price). I had no other option, but to agree to his demands. That was my turning point. 
  
 
  My breakfast always included good fats and proteins, that is, black coffee and paneer salad. When we wake up in the morning, our cortisol levels are high. Cortisol is a stress hormone. Adding a carb meal in the morning stops the   oxidation. Hence, sticking to protein and good fats is always a good option and it keeps the fat burning through the day.
  
 
  Lunch was always rice/chapati, veggies, soya chunks, curd and cheese cubes. It was basically a combination of carbs post workout, with good fats and proteins with fibrous veggies. 
  
 
  Dinner was always and still is paneer pulao with curd along with some veggies. No, eating rice for dinner or after 6 pm will not make you fat. Total calories consumed in the whole day matter. 
  
 
  Maharaja Bhog Thali. Once a month, I used to treat myself and I still do. 
  
 
 I do weight training, following a periodization model. I change my repetitions every week along with the loads and HIIT at the end of the workouts, thrice a week. 
  
 
 A few. 
 1. Spinach soup, raw veggies with a cheese cube grated on it 
 2. Lemonade
 3. Whey protein + fresh cream shake
 4. Lassi with stevia
  
 
 Eating fats will never make you fat and eating rice will never make you fat. Going beyond your maintenance calories does. Find your maintenance calories (TDEE) and stay within that limit, if you want to lose fat. That state is called being in a 'caloric deficit'. Combining a structured diet plan with weight training and cardio will yield results.
  
 
  As I went on losing fat, and came down from 4XL to XXL to M, life kept unveiling a new chapter at every interval, as the time passed. The sheer will to change and not to get into the old clothes kept me motivated. 
  
 
  Once I started seeing results, I never looked back. I was away from social media for a good six months. Once when I uploaded a picture after losing a 30 kilos, my inboxes were filled with praises and compliments. Once you start seeing results, it becomes an addiction.
  
 
 Clothes, they just refuse to fit you. I still remember when a guy at a store told me 'Sir aap jeans silva lo' (Sir, get a jeans stitched as per your size). That was really embarrassing. Share-rickshaw guys refused to take me, because of the extra size. Instead, they could accommodate two guys easily. Body shaming, every now and then, you are the target of your friends and they always treat you as someone who is not serious with his life and eating habits. Can't run much, can't get into a moving bus, train, difficulty in taking stairs, and most importantly, you are the 'leftover food finisher', whenever you go out to eat. Why? No points for guessing. 
  
 
  I am maintaining my weight 78-82 kilos since last 11 months, at 9-13 per cent body fat and wish to keep it maintained for a healthy living. Being a Nutrition and Fitness consultant, I have to lead with an example. I am looking forward to being more flexible, active and willing to take my mobility skills to next level as I age. 
  
 
  I am no more a lazy person which I used to be earlier. I have become more agile, aggressive and more confident about the way I look and feel. My coach   once told me, “Always focus on becoming strong, looking good is a byproduct of it". I can do all the physical activities at a faster pace. Being confident and a better decision making have to be on the top of the list. 
  
 
 People looked at me as an unproven theorem. As I went getting more obese, I was in a constant fear that I'll get prone to diseases. Low grades, non focused blurry career choices, rejections etc. just added to my misery. I don't blame anyone. I completely accept what I went through and know that, I myself was responsible for everything. I was not happy in my own skin. I felt like a burden to myself. Emotional eating made things worse.
  
 
 In order for you to change, you need a hard blow. You need a kick or an incident, which will change your life completely. Have an action plan and stick to it religiously. Results will follow. Give your everything to a dream no one else could see, but you. Ditch motivation and make discipline your friend for life. You cannot be always motivated, but you can always be disciplined. Have patience. Results happen overtime, not overnight. Aur haan,"Akal badam khane se nahi, thokar lagne se aati hai" (Intelligence does not come by eating almonds but through a life-changing experience or a nemesis).
 
 
 
 
 
