AHMEDABAD: Hemraj Desai, a resident of Kadi, allegedly cheated a senior citizen of Kalol by posing as a   posted in crime branch. The elderly victim was duped of Rs 1.50 lakh. 

  Patel, 62, was living a retired life with his wife Leelaben and 21-year-old son Bhavesh. He had lodged a complaint alleging that he had given the money to Desai for help in getting his bungalow on Kalol road vacated. Patel has stated that he had purchased the bungalow in 2011-12 and given it on rent to one, Shobhnaben, on a monthly rent of Rs 2,000. 
 
 “But the tenant stopped giving him rent after about five months. Instead, Shobhnaben lodged a case in court claiming that she had given Rs 15 lakh to Patel. While the case is still pending in court, Patel was desperate to get his bungalow vacated,” said a crime branch official.
 
 According to details mentioned in the FIR lodged with the crime branch, in July 2017 a man named   had come to Suresh Patel’s parlor for a cigarette. Kaushik offered to help Suresh and put him in touch with one Hemraj Desai of Kalol. 
 
 According to Kaushik Patel, Desai was a DSP in crime branch located at Shahibaug. 
 
 “Patel, his son Bhavesh and daughter Alka met Hemraj Desai near   where Desai had come in an MUV with police written on it. Desai told them that they will have to spend about Rs 1.5 lakh to get the house vacated. Patel agreed to this offer,” a police officer said.
 
 Sources in the crime branch said that later Patel had paid Rs 50,000 to Desai as first installment. He eventually made a total payment of Rs 1.5 lakh. However, Desai then started avoiding Patel’s calls and sometimes even said that he will soon get the order to vacate the house from DSP  .
 
 Police said Patel had then got the address from Kaushik Patel and in December 2017 reached Desai’s house located in Chandkheda in Ahmedabad but was not able to meet him. 
 
 “Later, when he realised that he had been cheated, Patel approached us. Now has lodged a complaint of cheating against Desai and one unidentified person. We have formed a team to arrest the accused,” a police officer said.
 
 
