CHENNAI: In the run-up to Wednesday’s release of the Class XII results, R Ramesh and his family have been making back-of-the-envelope calculations to see if he will make it to a government medical college in the state. His parents have already started talking to banks for educational loans in case they need to pay high tuition fees for admissions to deemed universities.

 
 
  
 
 Admissions to state medical colleges, ESCI, Annamalai University and self-financing colleges affiliatedto the state university are made by the state selection committee of the directorate of medical education based on   scores and 69% reservation. WhiletheofficialNEET answer key is yet to be made public by the  , almost all private tutorials released it by May10.
 
 “My nephew lost close to 80 marks for marking wrong answers, especially in physics. Many students in the BC category made it to selffinancing colleges last year with a score of 270. If more students lose out like him, he could stand to gain,” said Ramesh’s uncle Rajendran Kumar said.
 
 Rajendran says that unlike last year, all students and parents know there is no escape from the national entrance exam. But counsellors andtraining institutionssay competition may gettougher this time.
 
 “Many students who did not make it last year have repeated NEET and some smart kids have ensured they get no negative marks,” said   S, a tutor at one of the city’s NEET training centres. “Many are in the 275-310 bracket and are not sure if they will make it to government colleges,” she added.
 
 Agents have been using this period to make a killing — at least three agents TOI approached promised to “reserve” seats in deemed universities and self-financing colleges of   and   although most colleges have said on their websites that admissions would be centralised.
 
 “Seats can’t be reserved in advance easily because admissions are not in the hands of colleges anymore,” But selection committee secretary G Selvarajan said.
 
 The directorate of health services, New Delhi, will conduct admission to deemed universities by online counselling, he said.
 
 “Seats are returned only after two rounds of counselling and mop-up. The colleges will have to fill them based on the merit of the rank list released by the state or central authorities,” said Selvarajan.
 
