KOLKATA: The Garfa police on Friday evening arrested 47-year-old Anjan Chakraborti from his   apartment, off EM Bypass, for his suspected role in whisking away a woman in his car and molesting her on the New Year’s Eve at the   Connector.

 Police said they had to track down Chakraborti after a prolonged — and complicated — probe which saw them initially chasing a wrong car registration number and a wrong car model. However, using a complex process to fan out cellphone calls which originated in the radius hemming the alleged “scene of crime” and linking it to car registration numbers with 5 and 4, they pinned down Chakraborti at his home.
 
 
 According to a source, this was made possible due to the updated vehicle ownership database with police now replete with all contact details, including cellphone numbers. Chakraborti after his arrest told police that he never voluntarily informed the cops on his role for he wasn’t aware the incident had prompted police to slap penal charges against him and implicating him in an FIR.
 
 At the time of registration of the complaint, the woman had told a car registration number but that number was found non-existent. One of the two rescuers who had chased the car on bike had remembered the car’s make — a silver Volkswagen Vento — and gave a vivid description of the car driver but couldn’t tell the number.
 
 Chakraborti, who is the deputy director of a reputable Siliguri-based educational institution, admitted that he was driving the car that night but gave police a completely different version of events that night. Police said, prima facie, Chakraborti said he was headed to a friend’s place that night. He wasn’t driving erratically, he claimed, and was within the speed limits. 
 
 He claimed as he halted to a stop on Prince Anwar Shah Road connector at a red signal he saw a woman frantically waving at him, even banging his window panes. As he rolled down the window pane, the woman reportedly lunged in an attempt to grab the car keys. He claimed he was scared and involuntarily pressed the accelerator and swerved to the right. Barely 50 metres down the road, he reportedly stopped when he saw two youths chasing him and the woman screaming for help. The youths, he claimed, slapped him repeatedly and the woman’s cries prompted locals to gather at the spot. He claimed the locals asked him to leave the spot.
 
 Police, however, are probing several “loose ends” in this statement.
 
 
  
 
