There was a ramp with models walking down, wearing creations by some of the top designers of the country. But this event, hosted by a nightclub in the heart of Delhi, was not your regular fashion show. What made it special was that all the models were   and drag queens, who had gathered from across India and abroad. The event was a part of the club’s India Drag Tour, which has also been organised in other parts of the country with the aim of empowering the transgender community.

  
  The power of fashion: Transgender models on the ramp (BCCL/ Ranjit Kumar)
 
  The models at the Delhi leg of the tour included Miss Trans   India 2017  , Mr Gay World 2014 Sushant Divgikar - who walked the ramp in his drag avatar Rani – and drag queen-turned-DJ from Australia, Kitty Glitter. The finalists from Miss Trans Queen India, the country’s first transgender beauty pageant held in August in Gurgaon, also walked the ramp. The models showcased designs by some prominent fashion designers including  , Namrata Joshipura, Gauri and Nainika, and Pallavi Mohan. Maya, a model from Bangalore and was one of the curators of the show, said, "The message we want to send out is that we are all humans, just people. There should be greater inclusion of the marginalised through events such as these." Mumbai-based Navya, who walked the ramp, said, "It was a lovely and a great experience walking the ramp wearing creations by the top designers in the country. We wanted to show we are all beautiful in our own right - beauty with a purpose - and I guess we managed to do that."
 
  
  AGUILERA-INSPIRED? A model at the fashion show (BCCL/ Ranjit Kumar)
 
  
  Nitasha Biswas
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  Talking about the significance of the event, Miss Trans Queen India founder Reena Rai said, "Till a few years ago, nobody was willing to even sponsor or lend their name to any event associated with transgender models. But today, these girls are being invited as guests of honours at various events. That shows how far we have come."
 
 
  
  Queen of the ramp: Sushant Divgikar (BCCL/ Ranjit Kumar)
 
 
 
 
