TOI spoke to Congress’ national spokesperson and Rajya Sabha candidate from Bengal, Abhishek Manu  , on Saturday, a day after Trinamool Congress announced that it would support his candidature.

 Your first thoughts on landing in Kolkata?
 
  Apart from expressing my gratitude to my party president Rahul Gandhi, former Congress president Sonia Gandhi and Bengal Congress president Adhir Chowdhury, I must express my gratitude to the party that is supporting me and its leader and Bengal chief minister, Mamata Banerjee.
 
 Did you speak to Banerjee?
 
  I spoke to her on phone on Saturday. I’ve expressed my gratitude to her personally.
 
  You always said Kolkata was like a second home to you after Rajasthan. Why?
 
  I find some karmic connection here. First, my mother spent her entire early life in Kolkata, including her school and college days, and speaks fluent Bangla. Second, almost all family members from both my father’s and mother’s sides continue to reside in Kolkata. I, therefore, have six to seven homes in Kolkata where I can go uninvited. Third, if I ever had to move out of my home state, Rajasthan, and was asked to choose another state (for election to RS), I would have always chosen the land of Sri Aurobindo and Swami Vivekananda, Ramakrishna and Rammohan Roy, Tagore and Netaji Subhas Bose.
 
 Your candidature and subsequent support from Trinamool took everyone by surprise. Congress is str-ongly opposed to Trinamool at the state level and was talking to CPM to field a co-nsensus candidate. Do you feel this will be a problem?
 
  I find no contradiction or paradox. The basic point is that the entire political spectrum in West Bengal has been aesthetically and historically anti-BJP. There is a consistent and continuous degree of parliamentary coordination between the state parties and Congress despite the state-level rivalry. There is a near-unanimous feeling across the country, which is bringing together parties as diverse as DMK and TRS in the south, Trinamool and BJD in the east, SP and BSP in the north and Shiv Sena in the west, besides Congress. The country has seen an unprecedented degree of vendetta politics, persecution syndrome, intolerance and divisiveness, which makes this coordination natural and understandable.
 
 Your candidature has nipped the potential Congress-CPM state-level efforts to field a joint candidate. But you need to coordinate with the Left at the central level. Do you think CPM will now be wary of dealing with the state Congress leadership?
 
  As I said, I am a proud Congress candidate. How can I speak for CPM? You should ask them this question.
 
 
