SHIMLA/AHMEDABAD/ RAJKOT: Some 25 tourists from Saurashtra and   were injured when the bus they were in turned turtle near Magrot, on the Bilaspur-Shimla highway in Himachal Pradesh on Saturday morning. 

 
 There were 41 people on the bus, heading from Shimla to Manali, when the   took place in the wee hours of Saturday. The bus belongs to a Rajkot-based travel agency, Keshvi Travels, according to police sources. The bus driver fled soon after the accident.
 
 Sources said that driver was speeding due to which he lost control over the wheel on a curve and the bus turned turtle. Two cars parked along the road were also damaged. 
 
 Sanjay Sharma, a   at Bilaspur police station, said, “The incident occurred around 4.30am, when the bus (GJ-18 AZ 4671) reached Magrot, 15km from Bilaspur district headquarters. We are yet to ascertain whether the accident occurred because the driver nodded off or if he lost control. Some 41 tourists from Gujarat were aboard the bus.”
 
 The tour operator confirmed that the passengers aboard were from Junagadh, Rajkot and Surat.
 
 “Some 25 persons were injured and 19 have been admitted to Bilaspur General Hospital. They suffered minor injuries and are under observation. Six passengers suffered grave injuries and were shifted to the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) in Chandigarh,” said Sharma.
 
 PSI Devi Singh of Bilaspur police station said, “Six patients had severe injuries. One of them has a serious fracture to the arm, three others have fractures and two suffered head injuries. They are currently at PGIMER in Chandigarh.”
 
 A senior police officer said a hunt to arrest the absconding bus driver has been launched and a case of rash and negligent driving has been registered against him.
 
 Those injured have been identified as Jyotsna (57),   (46), Deepali (21), Leena (24), Nikunj (28), Dharmik (64), Luv (12), Arvind (57),   (37), Tushar (36), Hansa (31), Geeta (52), Raj Kumar (71), Hansa (30), Nikunj (11),   (37), Miraj (26), Vishali Patel (35), Jayanti (52) and Jayesh (34).
 
 Yashpal Tomar, the tour operator who provided the bus, said, “The accident occurred in the morning. Another bus was arranged for the passengers with minor injuries and they resumed their journey after getting treatment.”
 
 
