MUMBAI: Traffic in south Mumbai may be affected on Monday morning as Bharip Bahujan Mahasangh has organised an Elgaar March to demand the arrest of Shiv Prathishthan’s Manohar Kulkarni, known as  . They have decided to assemble directly at CSTM after police denied permission for the march to start from Rani Baug in Byculla to Azad Maidan. Bhide had allegedly instigated trouble in Bhima-Koregaon on New Year’s Eve.

 Mahasangh chief Prakash Ambedkar on Sunday alleged that the state government denied them permission to hold the march from Rani Baug to Azad Maidan. He said the reason for denial cited by police was ongoing board examinations, as the march may inconvenience students and office-goers. “The state intimated us on Sunday afternoon about denial of permission for organizing the march. But participants across the state have already left to join the Mumbai march. So people won’t return, nor will we call off the march. Now, as per the new plans, we have decided to assemble at CSTM at 11am and then will head towards Vidhan Bhavan, which may inconvenience people,” said Ambedkar.
 
 “The government has forced us to hold a channelized march in an unchannelized way. So, it may create more chaos on Monday in south Mumbai,” he said, adding, “The board exams have ended, so the reasons cited by police as an explanation for denial of permission are weak.”
 
 Incidentally, ICSE students have their biology paper on Monday, while ISC students will appear for the history paper. CBSE class XII students, too, have their economics exam on Monday. Mumbai University’s repeater exams too commenced last week.
 
 “The state government should arrest Bhide on the same lines of the arrest made of Hindu Ekta Parishad leader Milind Ekbote,” Ambedkar said.
 
 Law-enforcement agencies have urged Ambedkar not to take out the procession and said activists can instead assemble at Azad Maidan in view of on-going examinations. “We will ensure normal life in South Mumbai is not disturbed, adequate police personnel will be deployed,” officials said.
 
 Bhide and Ekbote are in the spotlight for allegedly “orchestrating” violence at the anniversary celebrations of the battle fought 200 years ago in Bhima-Koregaon.
 
 Mumbai Police spokesperson, DCP Deepak Devraj, said mahasangh members have been requested to only gather and protest at Azad Maidan. “Keeping in mind ongoing exams and obstruction to commuters, we have denied permission for the rally. Permission is granted to hold the protest at Azad Maidan,” said Devraj. 
 
 Azad Maidan police station senior inspector Vasant Varkhe said they were prepared with bandobast. Officers from Azad Maidan police station and across the zone have been deployed along the route of the protestors to ensure there is no untoward incident, said Varkhe.
 
 
