NEW DELHI: Traffic in south Delhi choked for hours after cops blocked the Outer Ring Road between Maharani Bagh and Sarai Kale Khan for the emergency repairs of a broken pipeline that has flooded the stretch. 

 
 
 Police officers say that vehicles heading towards Sarai Kale Khan have been advised to take a diversion from Ashram and use the Mathura Road-India Gate-ITO route. Vehicles from Noida have been asked to take the Barapullah from the DND.
 
 Massive snarls were reported from the Barapullah elevated road due to this. 
 
  
  
 
  
  
 Most drivers who were unaware of the diversions reached the Sarai Kale Khan leading to confusions. 
 
 Till Thursday night, jams stretched till the DND flyway as several goods vehicles broke down due to the knee deep water. Traffic officials say that a pipeline had ruptured during the construction work on the Delhi Meerut expressway.
 
 The tailback of the snarls choked the stretch till the Bhairon Mandir crossing on the other carriageway as well. Additional traffic policemen were deployed to push the broken down vehicles to one side of the road.
 
 Police officers say that the snarls began around noon when a large volume of water had started spilling onto the carriageway going towards ITO near the Millennium Park. “We had informed the concerned authorities about the incident, but it took time for the repair work due to which road started choking,” said a police officer.
 
 According to the cops at least three tempos broke down on the stretch due to the water logging due to which two carriageways of the already congested stretch to get choked.
 
 Police officers say that the repair work slowed down during the night due to lack of lights on the stretch.
 
 Cops have advised drivers to try avoiding the stretch since they fear that the waterlogging might lead to a cave-in. The stretch is used by buses and heavy vehicles entering the city. More than 50,000 vehicles cross the stretch through the day since it is one of the busiest roads of the city.
 
 
