CHENNAI: V K  , close aide of former chief minister J   issued a   to her brother V   on Friday evening, chiding him for voicing his support to chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami and deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam.

 By doing and saying things in support of those who acted against the interest of the party and the cadres, Dhivaharan is out to satisfy someone else, her notice said. The present   leadership removed the post of general secretary – created by party founder MGR and safeguarded by Jayalalithaa - from the party bylaw, Sasikala said. A major part of the notice was dedicated to recall what   and   did to undermine her authority. She questioned the decision of Dhivaharan, who is not even a member of the party, to support them.
 
 Listing out a series of developments, post the death of Jayalalithaa, Sasikala said the whole world knows how the present AIADMK leaders pleaded with her to accept the post of general secretary after the December 29, 2016 general council meeting. They even passed resolutions to that effect.
 
 However, developments in February, 2017 resulted in creating a scenario that ensured victory of those who indulged in politics of backstabbing, she said in an apparent reference to OPS. At this juncture, it was she who identified EPS as the new chief minister and 122 party MLAs voted in his favour in the confidence vote in the assembly. For some time, while the government was run by EPS, the party was guided by T T V  , who was appointed deputy general secretary by her, said Sasikala.
 
 Soon after, the party name and symbol were blocked due to cases filed before the  , but EPS and OPS joined hands once again to safeguard their power and greed to create assets for themselves through illegal means. This was despite OPS and his supporters having been expelled from the party by her for indulging in anti-party activities, said Sasikala.
 
 Without any legal grounds, they also disqualified 18 MLAs who met the governor and sought to replace the chief minister. This was done mainly to restrict the clout that she had in the party and to instill fear in the minds of other MLAs, she said. The general council meeting of September 12, 2017 was convened illegally by the present leadership without her consent, she said. Brushing aside the interests of the party’s 1.5 crore cadres, EPS and OPS are indulging in opportunistic politics, she charged.
 
 The notice also blames EC for acting in haste and awarding the party name and symbol to those who are out to destroy the party. It was under her own instruction that TTV contested the R K Nagar bypoll and with the support of cadres, who are fully with her, he emerged the winner. Since then, under her guidance, TTV has been mobilizing party cadres to protest against both the Centre and the state governments to safeguard the interests of the people. Even Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK) was launched as a temporary measure with her knowledge and written consent to sustain the political activities and contest in elections until the legal battle for the AIADMK and two leaves symbol were won, the notice pointed out.
 
 
