Coimbatore: At least 12 of the 19 overhead water tank projects inaugurated by state rural development and municipal administration minister S P Velumani under the Kurichi-Kuniyamuthur water supply scheme are on sites reserved for parks.

 As per various high court and Supreme Court orders, sites earmarked for parks by the directorate of town and country planning authority cannot be used for any other purpose.
 
 The Rs 165-crore project aims to improve water supply to nearly 4.2 lakh residents of Kurichi and   from 2019. The   has started to lay pipelines from Kovaipudur Pirivu as part of the ambitious project. Under the scheme, the officials plan to set up 19 overhead tanks.
 
  activists claimed that the overhead tanks can be constructed in revenue and poromboke lands in same areas as announced and protect sites reserved for parks as they are the lung spaces of the city.
 
 “Near   layout, there is Rajagopal layout where a site has been reserved for an overhead tank. But instead of that site, they are using a park site at Sai Garden layout for the project,” activist S P Thiyagarajan said.
 
 Tamil Nadu Water supply and   officials said the sites were handed over by the city corporation. “We are just implementing the scheme at Kurichi and Kuniyamuthur areas. It is the corporation that needs to check the land usage,” said a senior engineer.
 
 When contacted, corporation town planning officer Ravichandran said he would look into the issue. “Since it is for a public purpose, the engineering department must have taken up the reserved sites,” he said.
 
 Velumani, who inaugurated the project, was unavailable for a comment despite several attempts to reach him. A close associate of the minister, however, told TOI that the project would only benefit the people. “Yes, some of the sites have been earmarked for parks, but the project is for the people. There is not much revenue land in the corporation limits and the civic body has passed resolutions to approve this,” he said.
 
 But as per city-based activists, the corporation has no authority to change the land usage pattern. “The Supreme Court and high court orders have stated that the purpose of a reserve site cannot be changed by any authority,” Thiyagarajan said.
 
 The Tamil Nadu Water Supply and Drainage Board officials, meanwhile, said work on overhead tanks would begin within a couple of days. “We have already cleared the sites and we will start work on setting up the tanks soon,” an official said.
 
 City corporation commissioner K Vijayakarthikeyan was also unavailable for a comment.
 
 
