HYDERABAD: Describing as ineligible the appeal filed by 12 TRS MLAs against a single judge revoking the expulsion of two Congress MLAs, Supreme Court senior counsel and Congress leader   on Monday told a division bench of   that only an appeal filed by either the Speaker or secretary of the Telangana Assembly is maintainable.

 
 The bench of Acting Chief Justice Ramesh Ranganathan and Justice K   was hearing an appeal filed by 12 TRS MLAs, who are opposing the relief given to expelled Congress MLAs   and S A Sampath Kumar. They were expelled from the   after ruckus in which a mic was allegedly thrown at   chairman Swamy Goud, injuring his eye.
 
 Continuing his arguments for the legislators, Singhvi told the court that as part of the House, the identity of the 12 MLAs too gets merged with the collective identity of House. A group or a sub-group of MLAs from the House cannot claim separate identity for the purpose of filing an appeal.
 
 “It is the House that has to prefer an appeal and not a group from it. This group of TRS MLAs has got no authorisation to file such an appeal,” Singhvi argued. “If this is entertained, tomorrow some other group can knock the doors of the court raising rival contentions,” he said.
 
 Since the Speaker and the Assembly secretary have consciously chosen not to challenge the order of the single judge quashing the expulsions, the order has attained finality, Singhvi added.
 
 The counsel also raised objections to the video CD — containing footage of the alleged violent incidents in the Assembly on March 12 — that was furnished by the TRS MLAs. The authenticity of the contents in this CD is doubtful, Singhvi said and questioned why the House had chosen not to furnish the same when asked to do so by the single judge. “Why are these MLAs furnishing this to the court now?”
 
 Senior counsel C S  , who was appearing for the TRS MLAs, told the court that the footage furnished by the MLAs was only a compilation of live news coverage by TV channels. The bench posted the case to Wednesday for further hearing.
 
