SASARAM: Zonal IG NH Khan has asked all the SPs and DIGs in his jurisdiction to introduce a more liberal mechanism for granting leave to subordinates.

 The directive came after Gaya sub-inspector Gauri Shankar Thakur (55), shot himself with his service revolver on March 16 following denial of leave by his seniors. In a letter addressed to all the SPs and DIGs in Patna zone, Khan has stated that action will be taken against senior officials in case their subordinates take any extreme step. Rohtas SP Manawjeet Singh Dhillon confirmed this.
 
 Thakur’s son Abhishek Kumar had lodged a complaint with the Paraiyya police station in which he alleged that Tekari SDPO Manish Kumar was constantly harassing his father and at times even used foul languages. The complainant has also mentioned that his father was denied leave for about an year. The complaint also said SI Thakur has a daughter and despite repeated requests he could not get leave to look for a match for her. On a few occasions, Thakur even considered quitting the job, said the two-page complaint.
 
 Police had also lodged a case under Section 306 of the IPC (abetment of suicide) against the SDPO.
 
 The IG in his letter had also mentioned that proper reason must be cited and should be duly communicated to the applicant in case of rejection of leave applications. He also admitted that refusal to sanction leave even in emergency situation leads to resentment, particularly from constable to SI level. “Such a situation often leads to mental depression, which also affects their work efficiency,” Khan said.
 
 The IG has also directed the SPs and DIGs of Shahabad, Magadh and central ranges to be sympathetic towards the cause of junior level police officers and give prompt responses to leave applications submitted by them. 
 
 The IG also clarified that the SP can vest his power to the DSP concerned for granting casual and compensatory leave to ASIs and SIs. “In an emergency situation, police inspectors can also grant leave to their subordinates but they will they will also have to get the DSP’s sanction,” mentions the letter.
 
 
