PATIALA: The state vigilance bureau (VB) on Monday started an inquiry into the multi-lakh fire extinguisher and smoke detector scam that had rocked the  , Patiala, last year. The university had purchased fire extinguisher and smoke detecting alarm system at inflated rates, and ordered an internal probe after the matter came to light. The probe report was discussed at the university’s syndicate meeting held last month.

 VB has named four senior varsity officers, including then registrar Devinder Singh, sub-divisional officer  , junior engineer Sanjeev Kumar and then finance officer   who were allegedly involved in the purchase. The bureau has sought a detailed record from the university in this regard.
 
 Patiala varsity vice-chancellor professor B S Ghuman, during a meeting with syndicate members last month, had discussed the matter after the two-member committee formed to look into the allegations had submitted its report. The committee comprised senior professors Sukhwinder Singh and Amita Kaushal.
 
 According to sources, the committee had stated that the fire-fighting equipment and smoke alarm systems were purchased at prices that were three times higher than the government-approved rates. The firms from whom the equipment was purchased were also found to be existing only on paper. The government had approved a price of Rs 2,112 per fire extinguisher, but the university reportedly purchased the same for Rs 7,772 apiece from a firm named Genesis Enterprises — existing only on paper.
 
 The university authorities had purchased fire extinguishers worth Rs 58.4 lakh and smoke detector alarm system for Rs 21.4 lakh between April 2014 and October 2016. The inquiry was marked during the tenure of officiating VC  , who was given the charge last year after former VC Jaspal Singh resigned when Congress came to power in Punjab. Prof Jaspal had served as VC during the 10-year rule of the SAD-BJP in Punjab.
 
 After receiving several complaints, Verma had marked 16 inquiries related to various irregularities committed on university campus, including appointment of teachers. After receiving the inquiry report last month, VC Ghuman had announced that he would ask a committee of judges to look into the report so that university could take a final call on this issue.
 
 
