CHANDIGARH: Police officials investigating the Sector 33 robbery case said they have not been able to arrest the accused 48 hours after the incident as the neighbour’s   camera did not have back-up and other cameras in the area did not cover the road. They said they would have arrested the accused had CCTV cameras been working. 

 Despite the fact that a number of CCTV cameras had been installed near the house of the victim, Ajit Jain, police have not been able to get footage that would yield evidence in the Rs 1.5 crore robbery case. 
 
 A police team has been questioning Jain and his family and they have also taken mobile dump data from the area. Police said they are still to get a list of the stolen jewellery. Police teams have been sent to different parts of Haryana and   to scrutinise CCTV footage of the barriers and toll plaza to gather clues about the black Santro car in which the accused fled.
 
 Police said three CCTV cameras have been installed near Jain’s house, all of which proved to be useless. They said one of the CCTV cameras doesn’t have back-up and one was switched off on the day of the incident. Another camera does not cover the road in front of the house. Only one camera had footage of the car of the accused but it did not capture its number plate.
 
 Police also picked up mobile dump data of 1,000 phones in the area and interrogated Jain’s servants, drivers and boutique employees as they suspect the involvement of someone who was acquainted with the family. 
 
 Four armed robbers barged into house number 180 in Sector 33 and held family members hostage before escaping with diamond and   jewellery worth Rs 1.5 crore on Tuesday night. Jain said the robbers held his wife, daughter and servant at gunpoint. 
 
 He said the house has eight CCTV cameras and before fleeing, the accused took the digital video recorder (DVR) of the cameras. The accused also snatched the mobile cameras of his wife, daughter and servants, which were later found in Sector 33.
 
 
