NOIDA: It’s not something you’d ever associate with a highway but for daily commuters who drive or take public transport to Delhi from Ghaziabad and Noida via NH-24, this has been a familiar sight for years. 

 
 At the intersection of NH-24 with   62, large diesel autos are parked right in the middle of the highway, all facing the  , and allowed to pick up passengers freely.
 
 This happens through the morning and evening rush hours every day, turning the intersection into a clutter where autos, bikes, cycles, rickshaws and even cars can come from any direction. 
 
 Between Lal Kuan and NH-24, this intersection has for years been the biggest choke point but police in neither   district has done anything about it.
 
 Most of the time, especially during the rush-hour chaos, there are no policemen there. As a result, an auto stand has now become a permanent feature in the middle of the highway here. The diesel autos, which ought to have been by now taken off NCR roads because of their impact on pollution levels, either keep moving on the wrong side towards Ghaziabad or turn right into Noida, also from the wrong side. They get a free run. 
 
 “I’ve never seen a policeman stop an auto here when just a few heavy fines would’ve ensured this stopped,” a motorist who was driving by, on his way to   from Indirapuram, told this TOI reporter.
 
 The auto stand, which occupies the lane right next to the median verge, reduces the highway to a single lane for Ghaziabad-Delhi traffic, creating a bottleneck that triggers long jams every morning. Commuters have often stopped and complained when they have spotted a cop or a traffic marshal in the vicinity and tweeted to the police but there has been no reaction and junction has remained as chaotic for years.
 
 “Some relief is likely when the widening and upgrade of NH-24 (which is being converted into an expressway from Sarai Kale Khan in Delhi to Meerut) is completed. Then these autos will be forced to move to the service lanes,” said another commuter. But there is apprehension that even after the highway is widened, the autos will still find a way to break the rule.
 
 The Sector 62 intersection has a roundabout, which is also clogged through the day by autos as the driver stop wherever they wish and wait for passengers. If they followed rules, all these drivers headed to Noida from Ghaziabad’s trans-Hindon side would have to take NH-24 and go all the way to the   intersection, which is around 500 metres from the Sector 62 junction, take a U-turn and come back. Instead, they use internal roads as short cuts, both in Indirapuram and Noida, drive on the wrong side wherever it suits them, since there are no traffic cops to stop them in either city, and reach Sector 62 by the shortest possible route. Sector 62 is a hub for autos to various parts of Noida but does not have a designated auto stand.
 
 Noida’s traffic inspector Layak Singh indicated the junction would become more orderly once the metro tracks (for the Blue Line extension) are completed. “Things should be better once diversion is done away with. The auto drivers are being issued challans on a regular basis,” he said.
 
 
