The city corporation could be letting as much as 43 per cent of untreated sewage water into streams and rivers like Vaigai adding to the piles of garbage and open defecation that have been polluting the water bodies. The civic body’s indirect admission came in response to a right to information (RTI) petition filed by The Times Of India in which it has said that only 57 to 85 per cent of sewage water generated in the city limits is being treated.

 Untreated sewage water includes industrial effluents containing toxic heavy metals, medical wastes from private as well as government hospitals as well as faecal waste, say environmentalists. That such toxic sewage water was being let into water bodies is an open secret as it is there for all to see. However, this happens despite the local body possessing the infrastructure to treat more than double the sewage water generated in the city.
 
 While 70 million litres a day (MLD) of sewage water is generated in the city, only between 40 and 60 MLD is being treated. While the residents have an active role to play in properly disposing of sewage waste, it is the responsibility of the local body to collect the water and ensure that it is properly treated before disposing. The inadequate facility often results in the sewage water being let into the water bodies, say activists. 
 
 According to S Dinakaran, head of zoology department of  , the sewage water would lead to an increase in the organic load in the water body, resulting in algal growth. In due course, it would affect aquatic life and spoil the ecosystem. 
 
 Corporation Commissioner   says that the city area had increased three fold, from 72 to 100 wards, but the newly added areas were yet to be covered by underground drainage (UGD) system.
 
 Activists like M Rajan of   do not agree with Sekar’s claim. He said that even the water collected at the pumping stations was not sent to the treatment plants. "I have been noticing for quite a long time that water was being let into river Vaigai from the pumping stations without any treatment. This is wantonly done as they do not want to take the pain of taking it all the way to the treatment units on the outskirts of the city," he said.
 
 A city-based lawyer,  , who filed a PIL petition in 2011 to stop sewage water being let into the river, said that all stormwater drains in the city had been converted into sewage water carriers. Apart from the residential areas, commercial establishments like hotels were also contributing to it for which they should be made accountable. They should treat the water generated in their complex before letting it into water bodies.
 
 
