It is 20 minutes past midnight, and young HR Professional Arati R is tossing and turning in her bed. Desperate for some shut eye, she starts counting backwards from 100 to 1. Office problems and the need to find another job pop up, just the kind of thoughts she had been trying to avoid. Giving up on the fight with the goddess of sleep, she reaches out to her smartphone under the pillow and starts scrolling the timeline of her social media page.
Arati is not alone. There are many who find it hard to slip into the world of sleep night after night. On  , we talk to people like her as also experts about  .
 
 Malayali student Ragin Maria John from Bengaluru says that there are days when she is unable to get proper sleep and there are days when sleep comes naturally. She tries to finish her assignments by midnight and often the pressure gets to her. “Often, when one is done with the work, one feels the need to indulge oneself in some online activity. What happens then is that one Youtube video takes you to another and eventually, you lose track of the time.”
 
 She says that many of her friends, who watch either a Korean film or an English TV series are not bothered about how long it takes, and do not want to wait till the next day to watch a crucial scene or situation.
 
 Ragin is one of those who tries to make up for the sleep deficit of a couple of days by going to bed early the following night. “I have always felt that if we schedule our tasks well, sleep pattern can be improved. Another way is to cut down on screen time, be it a laptop or a mobile phone.” 
 Ragin and a few of her friends have even uninstalled apps that keep them awake for short periods. Mobile phones take a backseat during this phase and relaxing sleep music takes precedence over the former.
 
 Abhilash PU, a senior analyst with a prominent firm in Kochi, has been fighting the ghost of sleeplessness to such an extent that he has been contemplating to quit his job. “It affects the system, food habits and my mental balance,” he says.
 
 He adds, “We have shift timings from 4.30 pm to 2 am for a month and 6.30 am to 4 pm for the next, which wreaks havoc with the sleep pattern. Most often than not, my friends and I keep awake late into the night while at other times, when I am at home, I go to sleep as early as 8.30 pm.” He has found an app that helps him regulate stress and take power naps, he says. He also takes food supplements intermittently so that his health is not affected.
 Clinical Psychologist Minna Mathew, who deals with neurological development in children, says that parents need to work out a consistent schedule for the sake of kids. “Just like how   leads to mood swings in kids, in the case of adults, it affects their problem solving skills and their emotional stability.” Food without artificial agents and three hours of quality time sans screens before sleep, is utmost important, according to her.
 
 Dr Ranjini Raghavan, Kochi-based senior consultant and ENT surgeon, opines that sleep disorders are not often taken seriously by those affected by it. “One of my patients, who is a 30-year-old, approached me citing high blood pressure, and it was later identified that it was sleep deprivation that had led him to this stage. While six to eight hours of sleep is considered imperative, many think even four to five hours might suffice. This leads to micro sleep (an episode of sleep for a fraction of a second), while one is driving. A recent study I came across states that the number of drunken driving cases equals the number of accidents happening due to sleep deprivation.” Besides increasing BP, it can also make people more vulnerable to heart diseases and diabetes. 
 
 Most cases of early morning heart attacks happen due to sleep apnea, a disorder in which sleeping repeatedly stops and starts. Seeking refuge in smartphones is far from a smart option and insomnia will only get worse because of this. Studies have shown that the glimmering blue light from TV and mobile phones will only hinder sleep, because of which youngsters sleep late and get up later than usual. 
 
 “They are not aware of what kind of reaction their body will have, and how it will slow down the activities of the brain.”
 Dr Ranjini says that many are even unaware of the existence of sleep clinics, which attempt to study a patient’s sleep schedule before coming up with solutions. There are no simplistic solutions either and there is no direct correlation most of the time to a person’s body weight, unlike commonly believed.
 
 Another common notion is that drinking alcohol will induce sleep. But as Ranjini explains, while this may be true in the initial stage of sleep, later it causes disruption. “Any form of exercise during the late hours of the night is not considered good. Late dinners are also not advisable.”
 
 Finding a solution requires a holistic approach, according to Dr Ranjini; it is necessary first to delve into the history of a person through a Sleep Study – to know how much sleep a person gets, whether the person drinks or smokes, does exercises and the like. “With regard to ‘Sleep Hygiene’, which is better defined as the habits and practices required for sleeping well on a regular basis, one has to make sure to allot a fixed time and avoid exposing oneself to the flashlight, be it through a TV, laptop or a mobile phone. Try not to pile up your mind with unwanted thoughts.”
 
 The last-mentioned is easier said than done, people like Arati would tell you. That’s where age-old practises like yoga and meditation can be of help in keeping the mind like a still pond. And yes, the old-fashioned hard bound book is much better than the so-called smart phone.
 
 
 
 
