
 BHOPAL: A 27-year-old man waylaid a 17-year-old girl, while she was on her way to purchase medicines for her mother in   locality on Wednesday night and asked her to accept his friendship proposal. When the minor resisted, the accused grabbed her hair and assaulted her.
 
 
 A case was registered against the accused on charges of molestation under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code and POCSO Act following a complaint from the girl.
 
 Investigation officer SI AP   said the girl, a resident of PC Nagar, is a student of Class 9. Around 8.30 pm, her mother who was suffering from a headache asked her to bring a painkiller from a medical store.
 
 While she was walking to the nearby shop, the accused identified as Ravi Singh  , a resident of the same locality waylaid her. He works as a driver and has been stalking the girl since the past one month.
 
 When she confronted him, Rathore assaulted her. Later, he fled from the spot threatening to kill her. She returned home and narrated the entire incident to her mother and later approached Habibganj police station. Cops registered a case and arrested the accused.
 
 Meanwhile, in another incident a 20-year-old woman was molested by her 35-year-old relative in Talaiya locality on Wednesday.
 
 The woman, who is a resident of Idgah Hills locality, in her complaint to police stated that she had gone to a homeopathy clinic along with her elder sister. Around 9.30 pm while her sister was purchasing medicines from a pharmacy store, she went to an adjoining general store to by chewing gums.
 
 The accused, identified as Sanu alias  , a resident of Putlighar, who was also standing at the shop allegedly offered her a packet of chocolate.
 
 When she denied it, Babar allegedly grabbed her hand and started forcing her to go with him on his bike. She raised an alarm after which locals rushed to the spot and the accused fled. She narrated the incident to her family members and approached Talaiya police and filed a complaint.
 
 Investigation officer ASI Lavkush Pandey said that the woman’s father has earlier filed a suit against Babar’s brother. No arrest has been made in the case yet.
 
