JAIPUR: The   calls for   and the   in the state seems quite prepared to overlook norms.

 For instance, it’s all likely to waive the two-child norm, which is mandatory while applying for government jobs, and let those with three children apply for the post of   worker.
 
 The urban development and housing (UDH) ministry is contemplating the move and may issue orders enabling candidates with three children to apply for the post. An announcement in this regard is expected next month. A source at UDH said, “The department will allow those with three children to apply for sanitation worker’s post. Recruitment of over 20,000 sanitation employees is pending in the state. The government will issue notification to fill these posts next month.”
 
 It is believed that the move is being made to appease the Valmiki community ahead of the 2018 assembly polls. The government will not only provide stable jobs for many, but also fulfill the long-pending demand to allow those with more than two children to apply.
 
 When contacted, UDH minister Srichand Kriplani said, “We have received a proposal from community members to allow candidates with three children to apply. We are examining the possibilities.”
 
 Since 1996, the state government has not filled up vacancies in Jaipur and others cities such as Kota and Alwar, which require over 8,000 sanitation workers. Predictably, the proposal has brought a smile to many who have been waiting for these openings for nearly two decades in cities. President of Akhil Bhartiya Safai Mazdoor Sangh Rajkumar Gathera said, “People in our community are uneducated. This is the reason they have more than two kids. If the government is planning to relax the norm, it will be an opportunity for many.”
 
 Rajasthan adopted the two-child policy on June 2001 and barred its employees from having a third child. In 2016, the state cabinet had approved an amendment to Section 25 (C) of the   (Conduct) Rules, 1971, and decided not to take disciplinary action against those having more than two children. However, the government did not relax the norm for promotions of employees.
 
 “As per existing rules, those having more than two kids were not considered for jobs, nor were employees who had a third kid promoted after June 1, 2002. Promotions of many officials, including me, who have been working in the state government for long, were stalled. The government should consider their promotions first rather than allowing a particular section or group apply for jobs,” said a senior official at the secretariat on condition of anonymity.
 
 Criticizing the move, PCC vice-president Archana Sharma said, “Favouritism and nepotism are prevalent in  . Filling posts in the election year is clearly a populist move.”
 
 
