AMARAVATI: In perhaps his first direct attack on Prime Minister  , AP chief minister and   president   recalled a promise made by the former in Tirupati before the 2014 elections and asked why this had not been kept.

 “You promised 10 years of Special Category Status (SCS) for AP when you addressed an election meeting in Tirupati as the prime ministerial candidate. While addressing the gathering after the foundation stone-laying ceremony at   as Prime Minister, you said you would implement the AP Reorganisation Act and fulfil all the promises made to the state. Four years have passed and you have done nothing. Now, after four years, you have neither given special category status nor fulfilled the promises made in the Act. Why did you go back on your own promises? Why this discrimination towards AP? I want the PM to answer these questions,” Naidu said in Assembly on Wednesday.
 
 Speaking about the all-party meeting held on the previous day, the CM said the meeting had echoed his feelings and the feelings of the five crore people of the state. Congress betrayed the people at the time of bifurcation and the BJP afterwards. “I represent the agony, anguish and anger the people have towards the two national parties for their betrayal,” Naidu said.
 
 Contesting charges made by BJP national president Amit Shah in his letter to Naidu last week, the CM said the TDP government had submitted all utilisation certificates (UCs) to the Centre and wondered why BJP leaders were denying this or spreading false information. According to Naidu, the state had submitted the utilisation certficates for the Polavaram project to   (PPA).
 
 “Rs 350crore that was given to the state on February 9, 2018, was taken back by the Centre on February 15 on grounds that the funds were transferred to AP without clearance from PMO. Is it not a fact?” Naidu said. “Why are the ministers concerned or the PM not replying to the issues I raised,” Naidu said.
 
 The CM also asked officials of every department to be clear about every paisa spent as “there is a possibility of the central government taking advantage of the severed relations between BJP and TDP and denying funds.”. Before Naidu spoke in the Assembly, video clips of what the PM promised at Tirupati and at Amaravati were re-played. Copies of utilisation certificates were also distributed among party MLAs.
 
