PANAJI: The state government has decided to take various measures to improve the   facility for tourists and one of them is to start app-based   service. Chief minister   on Sunday said he has asked Goa   Development Corporation ( ) to immediately go for development internet app to provide app-based taxi service in the state.

 Parrikar said, “GTDC will take three to four months to develop an app.” He said that if the taxi association wants to develop an app then the government will them develop for it free.
 
 Parrikar said fitting digital meters on taxis will start in four months. “The process of completing the fitting of digital meters will take another seven to eight months,” he said. Before fitting digital meters we will give a presentation to the stakeholders, he added.
 
 The chief minister said the state government has started a crackdown on illegal taxi operators. 
 
 “Within the next couple of months if any private vehicle is caught while being used as a taxi, the RC book would be suspended and the vehicle would be impounded as per the rule,” he said.
 
 Parrikar said the government is developing a portal for tourists to file complaints if they are fleeced by the taxi operators. 
 
 He said directions had been given to GTDC to start operating the pre-paid taxi counter at the   in a couple of days. He said GTDC will have multiple counters at the airport. 
 
 Parrikar said there would be taxi list and electronically taxi operators will be informed about their turn. He said if there are few taxis at the airport, then the government will take a decision to increase the number of taxis after due discussions. “Yellow and black taxis will be increased (at airport),” he said.
 
 Chief minister said the Kadamba Transport Corporation has been asked to allot additional buses at airport to ferry passengers from airport and to fixed destinations like Calangute, Candolim, Mapusa,   and Margao.
 
 “Any passenger who comes and does not want taxi, can opt for Kadamba bus service and we will make sure that within 15 minutes he will get a KTC bus to reach his or her destination. Automatically the condition that you have to travel only in one mode will be eliminated,” he said.
 
 Parrikar said all these changes will happen in a phased manner.
 
 
