BHOPAL: Amidst massive public outrage over dumping of rubble along the eco-sensitive zone of the  , the district administration would take a final call on demarcation of land. However, the civic body has not yet acted against the private builder, who allegedly dumped an estimated 100 trucks of rubble along the   area adjoining the Upper Lake. 

 Sources said that over the last few weeks, rubble from a nearby construction site have been allegedly dumped along the water body by a private builder. The issue has irked environmentalists and city residents alike. Incidentally, after several calls for a swift action, the   (BMC) announced a 'shramdan' (call for people to volunteer for a clean-up of the lake site).
 
 At one of the lowest water levels in years, the Upper Lake is protected under the Ramsar Convention. The Indian government is a signatory to the Ramsar Convention on wetlands of international importance, especially as waterfowl habitat is an international treaty for the conservation and sustainable use of wetlands, said a top consultant with the Madhya Pradesh government. Seeking anonymity, experts like him have spoken out against the blatant violation of the treaty.
 
 Speaking to TOI, Bhopal mayor  , said, "To whom the site belongs would be decided after an assessment by the district administration. The civic body would take all actions needed to clear encroachments." However, there has been no talk about action against those who dumped the truckloads of rubble near the Upper Lake. 
 
 The land in question is at the very end of the lake near the Bhadbhada gates. It acts as a stop dam for the Upper Lake water, which not only is a major source of drinking water, but also holds key to the eco-sensitive zone along  , a national park within the city. Rubble was dumped near a mosque and graveyard along the Bhadbhada. Around 500 people gathered at the sight, calling for stringent action and saving the lake. Meanwhile, citizens have been urged by the BMC to come and volunteer to clean up the lakeside.
 
 
