NEW DELHI: A 45-year-old man attacked his wife and two daughters with a knife before stabbing himself to death in   on Friday night. The victim’s wife and daughters survived the incident and are currently recuperating in a hospital. Police suspect the man took this step as he was distressed over his financial situation.

 Cops said that the victim has been identified as Jitender Bahadur Singh, who is a native of Jharkhand and was presently living at a rented accommodation in Sangam Vihar with his wife Meenakshi, and their two daughters aged 9 and 11.
 
 A preliminary probe has revealed that the family was going through severe financial stress and had been unable to pay the rent of their flat for the past seven months. Jitender, who worked as a  , was unable to get any money and had already taken loans from several people.
 
 On the day of Holi, neighbours said that they didn’t see the family and no one was responding to the calls. At 8.25pm, police was informed and cops broke open the door of the one-room flat on the first floor.
 
 Investigating officers said that they found the woman along with her two daughters lying on the bed with blood oozing out of their throats. A man was lying in a pool of blood on the floor alongside the bed with a stab wound around his throat as well.
 
 The family was rushed to hospital in the PCR. The woman and the daughters were taken to AIIMS trauma centre whereas Singh was taken to a private hospital where he was declared brought dead.
 
 Later, Singh’s younger daughter, named the father as the attacker. She told cops that her father first hit her and her sister with a knife and a blade, and then attacked their mother, when they were sleeping on the bed. He later stabbed himself with the kitchen knife in his throat and fell down on the floor.
 
 The victim’s wife underwent operation on Saturday morning and has reportedly suffered extensive damage to her food pipe. One of the daughters has been kept on a ventilator but all three are reportedly out of danger.
 
 Police found that Singh had failed to get any case for the past few months and was deeply in debt.
 
 DCP (south) Romil Baaniya said that a case under sections of attempt to murder under the IPC has been registered and the incident is being probed further. A crime team inspected the flat to collect forensic evidences and the knife and blades used in the crime have been retrieved.
 
