The Delhi Traffic Police’s recent study indicates that only 2% of the drivers involved in drunk-driving accidents are women. However, after an inebriated law student recently rammed her car into a divider and killed her two co-passengers, traffic constables in the city – who call the incident an “eye-opener” – seem to be more alert with women drivers. They tell us that although generally, women are perceived as more careful drivers than men, it doesn’t mean that they don’t break rules. Refusal to take breathalyzer tests or even roll down their car’s window in the absence of a female constable when stopped for a traffic offence in the middle of the night are some of the reasons women don’t get fined. Police officials say that fewer female drivers are fined for traffic offences also because the ratio of female vs male drivers in the city is 1:71.

 
  
  A study by the   reveals that only 2% of   incidents involve female drivers, and statistics say that a minuscule percentage of traffic challans are issued to women
 
 
  
  
 
  
 In 2017, no female driver was booked for drunk driving. It is not clear whether women drivers drink within permissible limits or simply don’t drink at all, because traffic constables say that they hardly ever conduct breathalyzer tests on women. Most traffic constables tell us that they have never done a breathalyzer test on a woman driver. Reason? “Ladkiyan pi kar nahin chalati hain.” A traffic constable tells us, “Sometimes we can’t conduct breathalyzer tests on women because there’s no woman constable with us and convincing them to take the test is almost impossible.”
 
 
  
  
 
  
 Another traffic constable posted near Vasant Kunj says, “Women are indeed careful drivers when compared to men, but that doesn’t mean women are not aggressive drivers or are not involved in rash driving. It has happened a number of times that I have stopped a woman for speeding or wrong-side driving in the night, and she has refused to even roll down her car window. Sometimes they lock themselves in and refuse to speak with us. So we leave them with a warning.”
 
  
  
 
 
  
  (Picture for representational purposes only)
 
  The constables say that unless a woman constable is called, they can’t do anything. “We have to be careful with women drivers. If we don’t have a woman constable with us in that night and the woman driving the car refuses to talk to us, we have to sometimes let her go with a warning,” adds a traffic constable. 
 
  
 A traffic constable posted near Saket tells us, “This incident is an eye-opener for us, also because it can not be just one incident. In south Delhi and central Delhi, women drive quite late in the night. But when caught late in the night for a traffic offence, the chances of a women driver talking her way out of it are higher than a man. But now we have to be more alert with women drivers too, not just men.” 
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
