JOHANNESBURG: What is  's legacy? 75 uninterrupted Tests, 998 international dismissals, best wicketkeeper from South Africa, mentoring Lungi Ngidi... Yes, all that for sure. But much more as well.

 Fifty years on, if you see animals in the jungles of South Africa, find something called African Safari, see tigers protected from being extinct and rhinoceros saved from being poached, then Boucher would definitely deserve some credit.
 
 It is said one should carve one's legacy on "hearts, not on the tombstones." The Boucher Legacy, then, would be written on the hearts of the world's vulnerable animals, those in the   included.
  
  
 
 
 Since retirement in 20 11, Boucher has kept himself busy with cricket, coaching the Titans' franchise and even having an important hand in the emergence of Ngidi but that is about it. There has been more to his life than cricket...protecting rhinoceros, lions, elephants and cheetahs and even the tigers of India had been his passion.
 
 "We started off with rhinos but have expanded to other animals also," the 41-year-old explains about the role of Boucher Legacy, an organisation working for wildlife conservation. "But we're not calling it Boucher Rhino Legacy. We are for the protection of any endangered animal. At the moment we are in talks with people to protect wild dogs, cheetahs, elephants. Lions are also a problem. But rhinos are in focus because they are very much in danger," he explains.
 
 "In India, the population of tigers and rhinos are dwindling. India need to protect them as well. I was happy to know that   was involved in tiger conservation. If cricketers or any sportspersons use their network of people through different methods, social media and others, I will be grateful to them. I encourage them to come to South Africa, and I want to take them on a rhino trip with me. When I go to India again, I hope to visit the reserves and see a lot more tigers and rhinos."
 
  
  
 Boucher has enticed a few cricketers and celebrities into his project, Kevin Pietersen being one of them.
 
 "He (KP) is working closely with me for rhinos. He is also being very vocal about the endangered species. Anyone and everyone, not just cricketers, who come out in vocal support of the hapless animals," Boucher pleads. His best friend Jacques Kallis often helps him in his mission.
 
 Boucher says the immediate focus has been on rhinos because of the dangers the toothless (literally) and nosehorned mammal is facing from the Asians. "Rhinos are in danger neither for the meat nor for the skin but for the horn. They kill the rhinos, cut the horns off, and export them to Asia, particularly China, Japan and Vietnam, where they believe it is aphrodisiac...they also believe it cures cancer. That is not true. Some poachers use the horn to make ornaments, bangles, but the problem here is cultural. It is the culture that needs to change. I am talking about the rhino horn...certain things they don't need to use. It's a bit of fallacy. I also understand that you don't change the culture overnight. While we try to change the culture, we need to keep as many animals alive as possible," the messiah of the jungle says.
 
 Boucher's larger goal of course is social welfare, economy and employment. "The rhinos are in the extinction list, although it is among the Big Five (lion, leopard, elephant and Cape buffalo are others) in South Africa. We're on the map worldwide because of our Big Five. A lot of people come to our countries to see the animals and visit our wildlife. If we lose one of our Big Five, it will be detrimental to our country and our economy. To lure tourists to come to our country, the wildlife has to be made secure. It will be detrimental to job creation as well. Wildlife tourism is the biggest asset for us, the main source of revenue. We've to ensure the wildlife tourists keeps flowing," he elaborates.
 
 The Pretorian says he is being involved in wildlife conservation because he has been passionate about it all his life. "I really love going to the bush and watching animals there. They are very gentle which unfortunately makes it very easy to poach by the cruel and corrupt."
 
 
 
  is getting a bit older. India need to look for a young wicketkeeper. I like (Wriddhiman) Saha, he has got a lot of potential. But he needs to play in different conditions. In India, he is very good but what about in other places? .
 
 When I started playing, you had to be a very good wicketkeeper rather than a very good batsman. But times have changed. Your modern day wicketkeeper-batsman needs to be both. And that is because of  . He changed the idea of a wicketkeeper. In my time, he was the best. But overall, Dhoni and Gilly have been very good for the game. They have set the standard for the future.
 
 
