Here are our players from   —  ,  ,   and   — enjoying a sunny morning on Besant Nagar beach. Having had a successful season so far, the players are in high spirits and they gush about fans, Chennai and how confident they’re about lifting the Indian Super League cup, again. We listen in... 

 
 Jeje: Like I said, at the beginning of the season this year, this is the best-ever team of CFC. Our bench strength is very good. When Raphael got injured, there was Gavi and Rene to fill in. Same was the case when Sereno was suspended for a match. The team still played well even in his absence. 
 Sereno: In football, a game changes in a matter of few seconds. Sometimes teams that play well don’t win and vice versa. Anyway, we’re winning matches this year consistently. We are like a family and that’s the key I guess. Also, we have couple of young players in early 20s who are not afraid of anything on field, and adapt well to the game quickly. That’s helping us big time. 
 
 
 Dhanpal: Personally, I am grateful to the coach for giving me the chance to play matches this season. The last two seasons, though I was in the team, I never got a chance to play. Materazzi was also a good coach. But John gives extra attention to each player. If a player is injured, he’s given special attention and he also brings the right person on field in place of the injured player. 
 
  
 Dhanpal: I think I am making the most of the opportunities I am given. That’s why I am getting this chance to play consistently for the team. Behind me I have two walls — Sereno and Maílson. Even if I leave something, they are there to take the ball back from the opponents. There’s a good understanding between us. 
 
 
 Dhanpal: Though I didn’t get a single chance to play in the last two years, they’ve been supporting me from the time I joined the team. A lot of them from my neighbourhood in Vyasarpadi come for all the matches. They gave me the confidence at the beginning of this season that I would get the chance to play. 
 Jeje: They’ve been with us through thick and thin. Whether we win or lose, they’ve always been behind us, supporting us. They were the main reason for us lifting the trophy in 2015. I am sure that with their continuous support, we will be able to lift the cup again this season.
 Raphael: The number of fans for the team has only been on the rise and that’s a big boost for us.
 
 
 Sereno: I don’t see any difference between one team and the other. We play our best against all the teams. Of course, it might come across quite differently for the fans. But players cannot interfere in such things. 
 
 
 Jeje: Brazil. No two ways about it. Not Portugal (laughs looking at Sereno, who’s a Portuguese footballer)! 
 Sereno: Yeah, I agree that it’s difficult for Portugal to become champions. But we won the last Euros. So, we never know if they’ll do the same again in World Cup as well.
 Dhanpal: Germany is my favourite team. They are the current champions and they’ve high chances of retaining the title. All of them are good players in the team. Kroos is my favourite player in the team.
 
 
 Sereno: I have been to couple of places here, including some temples like Kapaleeshwarar Temple and Shore Temple in Mahabalipuram. I even went and watched Padmaavat the other day. 
 Raphael: Chennai has almost become like my second home. And it’s in the malls that I hang out often. And food is amazing here. Dosai is what I like the most. I can’t take too much spicy food. So, dosai is perfect for my palate. 
 
