TRICHY: Drinking water purification plant being implemented at a cost of Rs 20 crore will directly benefit over 70,000 people residing in nine wards of   municipality who have been complaining about poor quality of water, said state transport minster M R Vijayabhaskar and deputy speaker of the Lok Sabha M Thambidurai during a grievance day meeting in   in Karur.

 The red oxide color of water was a matter of concern for people of the nine wards that get water from two major drinking water schemes in the   river bed near Thanthoni.
 
 Responding to the complaints from people of Thanthoni, Vijayabhaskar said that water under two drinking water schemes would be subjected to pre-chlorination which would eventually put an end to the issue.
 
 Water is extracted from large infiltration well and supplied to these areas after it is disinfected. A survey by the   water investment company (TWIC) a few weeks ago found excess iron content in water.
 
 It was found that water extracted from the infiltration well turned red as soon as it got exposed to air. It was found that water extracted from Cauvery bed had 0.2 mg iron per litre when there was flow in the river. However, it now has 0.9 mg iron per litre against the permissible limit of 0.1 mg per litre.
 
 “While pre-chlorination treatment was suggested as an effective way to do away with the iron content by TWIC, the announcement has come as a breather for a large population in Karur,” told municipality commissioner, P Ashok Kumar to TOI.
 
 While Tamil Nadu Drainage and Water Board will carry out the project as soon as the state government sanctions funds, he said that they have plans to extent the pre-chlorination treatment to other nearby drinking water schemes as well.
 
 “About two MLD of water is taken from the infiltration well from Cauvery river bed which is little over a km away from Kattalai water scheme. Water is supplied to four wards of this minor scheme but there has not been such complaint. Since there are possibilities of such complaints in future, we are planning to extend the pre-chlorination to other water schemes from Cauvery river as well,” he said.
 
 
