While he is happy with the certification, writer   says it’s sad that we have to express relief and celebrate something like this. “It’s a filmmaker’s right. Moreover, the certificate is just a form of documentation and nothing else. It is the viewers who should decide whether the film is good or bad,” he says.

 Calling out the government for interfering in creative processes, Kundalkar, who has directed films like Gandh and Vazandar, doesn’t mince his words. “The   is just being used as a medium by the government to propagate moral policing. They are standing between the film and the audience. All this denying and delaying is just a part of the interference,” he opines, adding, “As a writer, I don’t want to get intimidated by this ambience of threat and I won’t.”
 
 
  
 
 Kundalkar is on the same page as Jadhav when he says that   lost out on important platforms. “IFFI,   and   are places where you can interact with like-minded people and understand their take on films. Nude missed out on all these because some people thought it was not meant for Indian viewers. But when a CBFC viewing committee applauds the film, isn’t it only right to say that viewers missed something good,” he asks.
 
 This is the first time that Kundalkar has written a film for another director and he calls this a new experience. “I was always on my own until now; writing and directing my films. But collaborating with Ravi, just in the capacity of a writer, was a good experience. Another first for me this year is that I have co-written my upcoming directorial Gulabjaam (with Tejas Modak),” he informs.
 
 The CBFC is essentially a film certification body but Kundalkar feels that for it to be just that, there’s a long way to go. He says, “Telling them (CBFC) to just certify a film and not censor it is asking a bit too much.”
 
 
  
 
 Ask him if films taking a stand against those in power will be made in the country anytime soon and pat comes the answers, “Not anytime soon. The country might prosper in terms of business and  , but in terms of art and culture, the future looks bleak and dark to me right now.”
 
