Coimbatore region is known for its rekla race, a contest that involves bulls lugging makeshift carts to a certain distance.   is a rarity here. So, with the news spreading that Jallikattu, the traditional bull-taming sport is all set to be conducted in the city, there is excitement in the air. Coimbatore’s ‘maiden’ bull-taming event, ‘Namma Kovai Jallikattu’ will be held near L & T bypass at Chettipalayam on Sunday (January 28) and city folks are expected to arrive in huge numbers for the historic event. A huge arena is being set up for the event. 

 
 
 Narendra Prasad, trustee of the  , which is instrumental in bringing the event to the city, tells us that the occasion provides an opportunity to spread awareness on indAfter 39 years, Jallikattu is back in Coimbatore igenous breeds. “We have been taking care of many indigenous breeds at our goshala on the outskirts of the city. The number of indigenous breeds is declining by the day. We noticed that farmers were selling their old cattle after they stopped yielding milk. They, in turn, were sent to slaughter house. So, we asked to sell the cattle to us instead. We pay the same amount to the farmers and take care of the old cattle. But, to create this awareness on a larger scale, we wanted to do something big and that’s how we came upon the idea of organising a Jallikattu in Coimbatore.”
 
 
 
 Though the buzz is that this is the first time Jallikattu is being held in Coimbatore, Narendra Prasad says that a Jallikkattu event was held in 1979. Perumal Velmurugan, who had been to that event, reminisces, “The bull-taming sport was held in the Nehru Stadium for the first time. It was not a traditional setup like the ones held in Madurai. The bulls were brought from southern districts like Madurai and Trichy.” 
 
 IV Senthilnathan, who was also present at the event, informs, “It was a two-day event held on January 13 and 14, 1979 in the memory of Sandow MMA Chinnappa Thevar of Devar Films, who had passed away in 1978. The event was organised by my grandfather PR Ponnusamy Thevar, one of the partners of Devar Films. There were around 40 bulls at the event. A temporary bamboo fence was set up on the first day inside the stadium and the main entrance was left open. Some of the bulls ran amok through the entrance and reached the road. The event was stopped for safety reasons. On the second day, however, precautionary measures were taken and oil drums were placed as a safety measure for the public. Needless to say, the main entrance of Nehru Stadium was also closed.” 
 
 Confirming the piece of information, historian CR Elangovan says, “As a child, I remember going to the event at Nehru Stadium, which was packed to the rafters on that day. Those days, it was customary for farmers to bring their cattle together and put up a show. But, urbanization happened at a rapid pace in Coimbatore and eventually these events stopped. However, rekla race, which is quite popular in the region continued in the region. Jallikattu was not quite popular here since the farmers, too, reared  .” 
  
 
 
 Narendra Prasad informs, “Before we started building the arena, we conducted the traditional puja. We are using a space of 26 acres for the event with a seating capacity of 12,000. The gallery for visitors has been highly protected.” When CT visited the venue, last minute preparations were on in full swing. Some of the workers, who specialized in building the vaadi vaasal (entry point for bulls) were brought in from places like Tirunelveli and Virudhunagar and were providing the finishing touches to the same. “I have been building   for the last five years. After the recent casualties in the southern districts, we have built extra safety measures for Coimbatore. The spectator gallery has been provided with an extra fencing so that bulls don’t barge into them,” says a worker at the venue. 
 
 
 
 Narendra Prasad says that at least 750 bulls are expected to take part in the event. “The bulls have been brought in from different parts of the state, especially the southern districts. There are strict regulations for taming the bull. Youngsters spring into action as soon as they see the bull. But, at any given time, only one participant will be allowed to tame the bull. They are also not allowed to touch the tail or horn of the bull. There will be a team of supervisors at the event, who will watch the proceedings carefully. We want to ensure the safety of bulls, too. Entry is free for the public,” he informs.
  
 
