PUNE: A jawan from the Indian Reserve Battalion ( ) at Kolhapur, who was stationed at the   ( ) in Daund, about 65km from here, gunned down three men with his service pistol over a personal as well as financial dispute on Tuesday afternoon.

 The jawan, Sanjay Shinde (36), fled from Daund after the shootings but was caught by the police at Supa village on the Pune-Ahmednagar highway later in the evening.
 
 The Daund police identified the victims as Gopal Shinde (32),   (30), both residents of Vadar galli, and   of Kurkumbh Road. All three died on the spot,   said.
 
 Additional superintendent of police (Baramati region) Sandip Pakhale said Shinde was stationed at the SRPF campus and had obtained the service pistol from its armoury. “The jawan and the three victims had an old enmity over a personal matter and also monetary issues,” he said.
 
 Police sources said one of the victims had slapped the jawan’s mother some time back while the other two victims were involved in a financial dispute with him. 
 
 Pakhale said Gopal Shinde and Pawar were relatives and were gunned down by the jawan at a spot near the land records office. Jadhav was killed outside his residence. The jawan went on his two-wheeler to the two spots to kill the three men.
 
 After committing the murders, Shinde ran towards a building where he lives with his family. The Daund police station staff came to the building a little while later to apprehend him. As Shinde was armed with a pistol, more police personnel and even SRPF jawans were summoned to cordon off the area. However, it was later learnt that Shinde had fled from there minutes before the police arrived.
 
 Pakhale said the police later got a tip-off that Shinde was at Supa village. “We laid a trap and nabbed him. We have recovered the service pistol from him,” he said.
 
 Daund SRPF commandant   said that Shinde’s battalion is based at the SRPF due to non-availability of land to house it at Kolhapur. Shinde is under the administrative control of the commandant, Group 16, Kolhapur.
 
 
