INDORE/BHOPAL: The   on Saturday seized gold and diamond jewellery worth Rs 2.3 crore from a Bhopal-based outlet of Nakshatra — a franchisee of M/s  , the chain of showrooms owned by  , who is allegedly involved in the Rs11,400 crore PNB scam.

 Half a dozen ED officials and three officials of PNB arrived at the showroom in a mall in Bhopal around 11am, sources said. “We had identified three places to raid, the two others being near Bhopal airport and in Arera Colony. The mall showroom was the only one found open,” said an officer. 
 
 The showroom staff cooperated as the ED team had met the showroom owner, Akhilesh Jain, and explained the need for a raid. The officers went about their work so quietly that most people at the mall had no inkling a raid was on. Only the TV crews and mediapersons gathered outside that gave an indication something big was afoot. The ED team had requested mediapersons not to enter the mall and take pictures with flash cameras. They initially objected to pictures being taken on mobile phones, but later made no attempt to stop them.
 
 The ED team went through the memo stock, collected sale deeds of the current fiscal and seized gold and diamond ornaments. Officials are sifting through computer records and keeping copies of hard disks for analysis, say sources.
 
 Jain said he had franchisee of M/s Geetanjali Jewels but sells his own stuff, as well, from the mall outlet. “I keep their jewellery and my own, too. ED will seize Rs 2 crore worth of jewellery of M/s Geetanjali Jewels, which was on display at out showroom, but jewellery that we have bought from them or otherwise will not be seized,” he said, “ED is doing its business, and business at my showroom will continue as usual on Sunday.” 
 
 An older franchisee showroom of Geetanjali Jewels, with the same name, in Bittan Market is closed for three years. Businessman Alok Gupta, who had the franchisee earlier, said: “I gave up that business six years ago. It only endorses my belief that whatever God does, is for your good.”
 
 
