BHOPAL: Popular toast among — ‘one for the road’ — proved costly for a 42-year-old reveller. When the city was busy preparing to ring in the New Year, allegedly sloshed Neeraj  , 42, struggling to be on his feet, offered lift to a stranger on his bike at   trisection on   road and passed out. He woke up the next morning on a footpath near a milk parlour in   only to learn that his bike, wallet and cell phone were stolen.

 The incident is of December 30 when the victim, after having visited a bar at RRL trisection, bumped into a stranger who requested lift from him. Since Pandey, say the cops, was not in a position to drive his bike, he agreed to provide lift to the stranger should he rode the vehicle. Agreeing over the deal, the stranger rode the vehicle with Pandey as his pillion upto a tea kiosk in Misrod. Next day, Pandey received a shock when he realised that his wallet, cell phone and his TVS Apache bike were missing while he was lying on the ground in front of a milk parlour in Misrod.
 
 Pandey reported the matter to Misrod police after which a case of theft was registered on his complaint against an the stranger. Investigation officer SI Suryanath Yadav said that the complainant is a resident of HIG-49 Shankracharya Nagar   and works as a caretaker at a hostel.
 
 The victim told police that he went to a bar and consumed liquor and while he was leaving for home on his bike, a stranger aged around 30 years asked for a lift. As he was drunk, he gave the keys of the bike to the stranger. Next morning, owner of a milk parlour near Durwasa Nagar in Misrod woke him up. He was sleeping on footpath. He frantically looked for his bike and cell phone. They were missing. Further he realised his wallet carrying two ATM cards along with the PAN card of his mother and other identity documents were also missing. He immediately realised that the stranger had relieved him of his belongings. Subsequently, he reported the matter to Bag Sewania police.
 
 Neeraj’s brother Vijay Pandey, an assistant grade II clerk in Lokayukta police, said his brother earlier used to work as a share broker in Bittan Market. He shifted to Rewa and recently moved back to Bhopal. He lives with his mother and wife. When police searched for CCTV footages near the bar, Neeraj was not seen there during the specified time. “Further investigations are on in case,” said Yadav
 
