KOLKATA: Prodded by complaints of fleecing by taxi touts and high surging by app cab operators,   have set up three pre-paid metered taxi counters outside the airport terminal. While one such counter is already up and running, the others are being made.

 
 “We have been flooded with complaints of touts troubling flyers as well as the inconvenience caused by the app cab surge pricing. We had earlier set up a pre-paid metered taxi counter outside gate 3 in the arrival area. Now, we are installing two more counters in front of gate 1and 2 so that flyers can spot them easily outside the terminal building,” said a senior officer of Bidhannagar Commissionerate.
 
 
  
 
 
 On the ground though, flyers did not get any relief on Wednesday as the pre-paid counter remained deserted with the men on duty overseeing the construction of the other two kiosks. Taxi touts made the most of their absence and took arriving flyers, particularly those unfamiliar with the city, for a ride. Though a couple of women constables posted outside informed flyers that they needed to go back inside the terminal to book a cab from the pre-paid booth, weary from the journey, many did not want to move about with their luggage and fell easy prey to taxi touts.
 
 
 “I did not spot a pre-paid taxi kiosk inside the terminal so I was trying to hail a cabafter exiting. But they told me I had to go back inside to book one. I couldn’t book an app cab as my phone battery had exhausted. Some cabbies were offering the ride at Rs 900, which was more than double the usual fare,” said  , who flew in from Vizag.
 
 
 Kolkata airport has multiple cab options but in the absence of streamlining the services and transparency in fares, tourists and visitors to the city often end up getting fleeced.
 
 
 The officer added that the situation is expected to improve once the additional prepaid taxi booths become operational. “I don’t know why the pre-paid booth wasn’t manned and will look into immediately. But the tout issue will resolve once flyers see proper booths from where they can hire legitimate taxis at affordable fares,” he said.
 
 
 The move has already sent jitters among touts and commercial taxi operators outside the terminal. With app cabs already eating into their business, they view the introduction of multiple pre-paid counters as yet another blow to their business. “We charge twice the regular fare as we ply empty on the return trip. If this continues, we have to wind up our business,” said Rental Car Service International’s   who has been operating outside the airport for 14 years.
 
