Chennai: In midst of the ongoing protest against the “exorbitant” rates charged by major digital service provider (DSP)  ,   (TFPC) has signed a deal with a smaller player,  , which has supposedly offered them rates 50% lesser than existing market rates. The Vishal-led  , in a press statement, termed the development a huge milestone in the struggle against high   (VPF) charged by DSPs.

 TFPC treasurer and producer of films including ‘Joker’ and ‘Aruvi’, S R Prabhu said, “The deal with Aerox is the first positive outcome in the ongoing struggle. It will encourage more DSPs to come to us with revised rates. We are already in talks with three new players.” Aerox is among the existing DSPs in the market and provides service to 35 screens across Tamil Nadu. In comparison, Qube caters to more than 700 of the 1,100 screens in the state.
 
 “Most theatres in TN are under the clutches of Qube, which signed watertight agreements with unsuspecting theatre owners. Qube is trying to keep smaller players out of the market,” said Prabhu. The deal signed between TFPC and Aerox comes as a move to break Qube’s near-monopolistic hold over screens in TN. “Overall, the VPF charged by Aerox in 35 screens will reduce by 50%. Aerox will continue to share the ad revenue with theatre owners.”
 
 Qube charges   a VPF of Rs 290 per show for the first week, Rs 250 for the second week, Rs 200 for the third, Rs 100 for the fourth and Rs 75 from fifth week onwards. 
 
 Qube co-founder Senthil Kumar said, “We have not studied the revised rates offered by Aerox. But we can safely say that the rates we offer are the most preferable to small-budget producers. These rates were revised only a month ago after discussion with the joint action committee comprising representatives of the four south Indian film industries.” With exception of the Tamil film industry, all others accepted the revised rates. Senthil added that Qube is the only DSP that offers high-end security features such as forensic water-marking and a mechanism to prevent theft of a film from the server. 
 
 
