BHOPAL: Sensing the simmering resentment among a section of state government employees on the controversial issue of reservation in promotions, the   government on Tuesday announced to draft a separate policy to provide promotion benefits to its employees who have reached superannuation level or retired without promotion. For retired employees, the government may also consider changes in the pension policy. 

 “Chief minister reviewed and discussed the roadmap for 2018 in a specially called meeting on his arrival from four-day vacation. It was decided that government would form a policy for employees who retired from service without promotion, as the matter is pending with the court,” state public relations minister   told reporters in a press conference. 
 
 
  
 
 Sources in secretariat said that reports from the employee unions have indicated that large number of employees were unhappy over the delay in their promotions. 
 
 
 
 
 The government has taken no clear steps to justify the delay. In view of the assembly elections scheduled later this year, chief minister   also fixed one year task for all ministers and bureaucrats and instructed review of each task on the 5th of every month. The ministers and heads of department will have to submit the progress report every first week of the month. 
 
 Mishra said that the meeting also discussed issues related to farmers, women and disabled. It was decided that the implementation of welfare schemes must be ensured within the prescribed time period. 
 
 “By October 2, 2018, all the villages in the state would be declared open defecation free (ODF) and the government will also fill vacant posts of tehsildars and their deputies within given time period. The government plans to involve 50 lakh people in the mass plantation drive to be held on July 2, where a target to plant more than 8 crore saplings has been set,” said Mishra. 
 
 Highlighting the efforts made for Dalits and tribals, he said, the government would ensure direct payment of labour and forest produce to them. It was also decided that onion would be included in Bhawantar Bhugtan Yojana from the next season, he said. 
 
 A decision was also taken to encourage the state government departments to go paperless and follow file tracking system. To encourage self-help groups undertake mining projects, the government will open 250 new mines in the current year. 
 
 
