MUMBAI: Corporators of the   (MBMC) are going to be a busy lot this summer as they embark on three study tours. While their serious intent is appreciable, their choice of destinations must also be lauded. From Nainital to Darjeeling and Coorg, they will travel to the country's most picturesque locations. The cost of the tour will be around Rs 60 lakh. 

 Citizens, meanwhile, are reeling under the burden of increased property and water tax. Outdoor fogging has also been discontinued citing paucity of funds.
 
  While corporators of the ruling BJP and Shiv Sena civic leaders have consented to the tour, the 12 Congress corporators in the 95-member civic house have boycotted it. 
 
 On April 12, corporators and civic officers of the   will proceed to Nainital in   for a six-day trip costing Rs 10 lakh. On the agenda is a sole item: Visit to the local municipality. The remaining days will be spent sightseeing.
 
 Corporators and civic officers from the  , on the other hand, are headed to Darjeeling in West Bengal and Sikkim's capital city Gangtok. While the dates are yet to be finalised, Rs 10 lakh has been earmarked for the study tour.
 
 A set of corporators is also flying to Coorg in Karnataka on May 12. The four-day hill station trip includes a day's visit to the Udipi municipality. The trip is expected to cost around Rs 45 lakh.
 
  Sources said spouses and children of most corporators will be accompanying them. 
 
 The citizens of their wards, on the other hand, are faced with a bleak summer. The municipality has burdened citizens with additional property and water tax from April 1. In addition, the civic administration has cut down the allocation of funds for fumigation from Rs 10 crore to Rs 3 crore. Services of around 180 contract workers carrying out outdoor fumigation have been discontinued from this month citing paucity of funds.Earlier, MBMC corporators have gone on study tours of various places both in India and abroad, including Karnataka, Kerala, Jammu and Kashmir, Malaysia, Nepal, China.
 
 Congress leader Anil Sawant said all his 12 corporators would boycott the tours. Instead, the money allocated for the corporators would be given to the civic health department. 
 
 
