PUNE: Nights are a horror for 50-year-old Kondhwa businessman Ashfaq. He cannot sleep because of an irresistible urge to move his  , accompanied by uncomfortable sensations in the lower limbs which he finds difficult to describe. 

 
  
 His symptoms range from irritating to painful and he has to hit his legs with sticks. The disturbed sleep has severely impaired his quality of life because it comes back even during the day when he has been sitting for an extended period.
 
 Restless Leg Syndrome (RLS) is a neurological condition affecting more people than type 2 diabetes. It remains undiagnosed for most people and get worse with iron deficiency, overwork, stress and lack of sleep, experts said. But not all restlessness in the legs is RLS. 
 
 “The US-based Restless Leg Syndrome Foundation says that up to 7 to 8% of the population have this neurological condition with 2-3% experiencing severe symptoms that affect their quality of life. Most people don’t even know they have it,” senior neurologist Sudhir Kothari, who sees three to four patients with RLS every month, said.
 
 The condition appears to be hereditary. “If a parent has it, the children will most likely have it,” Kothari added. He heads the neurology department at Poona Hospital and Research Centre.
 
 Senior neurologist Nasli Ichaporia said, “Neuropathic disorders like diabetic neuropathy or cramps can be confused with RLS because of the pain in the leg. Diagnosis and detection is key.”
 
 Ichaporia, heads Jehangir Hospital’s neurology department, has seen bad cases of RLS. “Some suffered for decades. One patient had not slept well for 25 years before he was diagnosed. Another patient could not sleep in a bed. This case was so extreme that she had to sleep in her car with the AC on,” he said.
 
 General physicians seem to have limited knowledge of RLS. “Very often it is misdiagnosed as insomnia and sleeping tablets are prescribed,” Ichaporia said. He sees one patient on an average every week.
 
 “RLS has a connect with iron deficiency. This deficiency does not show up as anaemia or low haemoglobin but is just iron deficiency which medicines can correct. In India, iron deficiency is rampant. Hence RLS is rampant too,” he said.
 
 Medicines can help treat RLS.“One needs to bring the iron levels up. Marked improvement in RLS is seen with drugs that stimulate the brain chemical called dopamine. Besides, RLS-like symptoms can be produced with drugs that block the dopamine system,” Ichaporia said.
 
 Neurologist Rajash Deshpande said, “Some patients with extreme RLS cannot sleep at all and keep crying because of the abnormal sensation in the legs disturbing the others.”
 
 Iron deficiency, overwork, stress and lack of sleep all worsen this condition. Those who have additional factors like vitamin B12 or D3 or calcium deficiencies, or other coexisting conditions in the legs, especially peripheral neuropathy have more severe symptoms. But these can be alleviated in most cases with medicines, Deshpande, who heads the department of neurology at Ruby Hall Clinic, said.
 
 
 
