NEW DELHI: The home ministry informed the   that it had identified and compiled English keywords commonly used for searching child pornography and rape videos on the internet and had shared the compilation with tech giants Google, Yahoo, Facebook and Microsoft for necessary action.

 Appearing for CBI and MHA, additional solicitor general Maninder Singh informed a bench comprising Justices Madan B Lokur and Uday Umesh Lalit that “keywords in other languages will also be taken up for identification and compiled in due course of time”.
 
 Singh said an online cyber crime reporting portal — www.cyberpolice.gov.in — had been developed and “this portal is undergoing security audit and has been deployed in staging environment for testing and trial. It is expected to be operational very soon.”
 
 Last month, the bench had directed the home ministry to set up a portal by January 10 for centralised lodging of complaints by citizens against child pornography and rape videos circulated on social media networks. This direction had come after a nearly three-year hearing in a case initiated suo motu by the   on receiving a letter from Hyderabad-based NGO Prajwala about criminal activity spurred by these videos posing a serious threat to the safety of women and children.
 
 Appearing for Prajwala, advocate Aparna Bhat requested the court to direct the Centre to give adequate publicity to the portal to enable citizens to file complaints. She said either complainants’ identity be protected or citizens be permitted to file anonymous complaints.
 
 The   said certain features of the portal were made operational by January 10 and added that anonymous complaints about child pornography and rape video circulation through social media could be registered online. He said on receipt of such complaints, these would be forwarded to the states and Union Territories concerned.
 
 The portal, when fully operational, will provide status update of complaints to registered complainants as well as “portal access to other stakeholders willing to register for providing inputs on child pornography and rape videos and maintaining hashtag of obscene content”. The court adjourned hearing to February 15 and said orders would be passed after hearing counsel.
 
