GANDHINAGAR: For long, every time Narmada waters were diverted into the Sabarmati riverfront, the pride of Ahmedabad, it drew criticism. Finally, the state government has for the first time asked the   (AMC) to ensure that by 2019, the riverfront should be fed by five sewage treatment plants with tertiary treated sewage water instead of Narmada waters.

 The directive to the AMC comes close on the heels of Gujarat grappling with severe water crisis due to record-low water levels in the Narmada. The government is also facing flak for poor water resources management considering that the state is dependent on the Narmada for nearly 70% of its drinking water and irrigation needs.
 
 Municipal commissioner   said, “The Union government has already approved the five STPs under the National River Conservation Plan. The project is worth Rs 400 crore and will arrest any release of untreated sewage water in to the river front.”
 
 “We are hopeful to commission all five STPs by December 2019,” said Kumar.
 
 A senior AMC official revealed that on an average the Sabarmati riverfront stores close to 10-12 million cubic meters of water (1 cubic meter equals 1,000 liters), which could have been used for other key requirements.
 
 The directive to the AMC comes close on the heels of Gujarat grappling with severe water crisis due to record-low water levels in the Narmada
 
 
 
 Each day, depending on the irrigation department’s requirement, close to 200 to 300 cusecs of Narmada water are released from Vasna barrage into the Fatehwadi canal.
 
 As per plans, the 11.5-km long riverfront will be fed by treated water from five STPs instead of Narmada waters released from the Dharoi dam by 2019.
 
 Out of these STP plants, two, Jal Vihar and Vasna STPs, will be upgraded by July 2018. The upgrade of   is underway and is expected to be completed by December 2019. Two new STP plants will be set up at   and Duffnala, and are expected to be completed between December 2019 and early 2020.
 
 Combined, these five STP plants will divert 313 million litres of treated sewage into the Sabarmati riverfront every day. Once riverfront starts getting fed by treated sewage water, the excess Narmada waters from Dharoi dam will be diverted for irrigation in Dholka, Sanand and several villages downstream.
 
