Your personal style? Elegant, comfortable and sassy. My personal dressing is inspired by my mood and mindset. I can jump from a girlnext-door to runway queen. I’m a T-shirt-and jeans kind of a woman. But I also enjoy the red carpet look.

 Fashion to me is | Not chasing trends blindly. It’s all about being yourself. I experiment far more now than I did before. Over the years, I’ve begun to appreciate what suits me.
 
 
 One fashion myth you would like to bust | Your shoes and bags don’t need to match always. It’s perfect to be mismatched too.
 
 Do you follow detox or cleansing diets | I don’t believe in undertaking anything extreme. I’ve been watching what I eat since the past five years in consultation with a nutritionist. I like to attain my goal keeping in mind the science behind nutrition and wellness. Balance is the key for me.
 
 Tips for a glowing skin | One must follow a lot of discipline. You need to stay hydrated, not indulge in packaged and oily food, get seven-eight hours of sleep, use cosmetics when absolutely essential. Most importantly, stay positive.
 
 Beauty tips from your mom | Treat your skin with natural homemade stuff that gives it respite from chemicals.
 
 How do you stay updated with the latest trends | With technology everything is available at the touch of a button. But I’m not someone whose world revolves around trends. I like to be unique in whatever I do.
 
 Do you depend on your stylist |   Batra styles me. As a stylist, she has understood what works for my body. She helped me discover the experimental and edgy side of dressing. While Sanjana suggests new styles, it’s always my vision that she’s complementing.
 
 Your go-to designer |   has styled me in my movies for years now. She introduced me to fashion in a big way.
 
 Five wardrobe essentials | Faded jeans, LBD, white tee, black blazer, cape.
 
 A beauty hack | Blow drying my hair and adding a dash of bright colour to my lips and nails.
 
 Airport looks are... | Overtly publicised but each to his own. I guess celebrities today are also style icons in their own right.
 
 — Analita Seth
 
