CHANDIGARH: Punjab shooters,   and   proved their mettle by bagging multiple medals in international   competitions held in Plzen, Czech Republic, and Hannover, Germany, over the last two weeks. While Amanpreet came back with a whopping 10 medals from the two competitions, Gurpreet won two at the Hannover meet.

 
 
 At the   shooting championship in Plzen, Amanpreet clinched four medals. He won a gold in 25m standard pistol team event, a silver each in 50m free pistol individual event and 10m air pistol mixed team event, and a bronze medal in the 10m air pistol team event.
 
 Amanpreet then claimed six medals at the   in Hannover. His rich haul included a gold each in 10m air pistol individual event and 50m free pistol team event, silver in 50m free pistol individual event, a silver each in the 25m standard pistol individual and team event, and a bronze medal in the 10m air pistol mixed team event.
 
 Gurpreet clinched a gold in 25m standard pistol individual event and a silver in 25m centre fire pistol individual event at the same tournament.
 
 Despite winning medals, Gurpreet told TOI that he could have done better in the competition. “This (tournament) was comeback to international shooting. Though I performed well in the standard pistol and centre fire events, I didn’t manage to get on a podium finish in the rapid fire event. I am not satisfied with my performance due that,” the 41-year-old said.
 
 An Arjuna awardee, Gurpreet is currently ranked fifth in the national rapid fire pistol rankings. He is aiming to make it to the 2018 Asian Games, to be held in Jakarta. “I have summoned Ukrainian coach Victor Venenko, who had trained me during my initial years. He made sure my training hours were extended, and as a result there has been a significant improvement in my scores,” said Gurpreet. Amanpreet, meanwhile, is planning to visit Hungary next month. “There is a renowned coach named Chava in Hungary. He is known for bringing positive changes in the technique of a shooter. I am in contact with him and will probably travel to Hungary next month,” said the 30-year-old.
 
 Both the shooters are intent on changing their pet events. While Gurpreet is skilled in the standard pistol event, Amanpreet’s favourite is free pistol. But, both events have been dropped from the Olympics recently. These events are still a part of the world championships, though, which is going to be held in Korea from August 31 to September 15.
 
 Gurpreet took to shooting after joining the Army in 2004. “I was undergoing the regular Army training in Pune, when an internal instructor came to scout for new shooting talent. That guy told me to take up the sport as I had shot well during trials. I remember many jawans had lined up for the trials. When the jawan next to me took his shot, such was the sound and effect on me that I inadvertently ended up releasing the trigger. Luckily, the shot hit the bull’s eye. And funnily, I was the only one who hit the bull’s eye. That incident changed my life,” recollected Gurpreet.
 
 Amanpreet participated in 21 shooting world cups, and returned empty-handed, before finally tasting success at the 2017 ISSF World Cup in New Delhi. “I am from a middle-class family. My father supported me a lot. He saved money bit by bit for my weapon and pellets. He skipped meals, but always took care of my diet. We had two buffaloes in our village, and my father had to sell one of those to buy a pistol for me. He wanted me to live my dream of becoming an international shooter. He sacrificed his sleep and food to help me reach this level,” an emotional Amanpreet said. Amanpreet is an Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC) employee, while Gurpreet is serving the Indian Army.
 
 
