GURUGRAM: The newly opened Genpact Chowk underpass may have brought relief to commuters who frequent Golf Course Road, but for those who need to move further ahead to   Extension, the problem has just moved down the road to  , which one has to cross to reach the extension road further ahead.

 Commuters heading for Golf Course Road Extension, Sector 56 or Jal Vayu Vihar, from Cyber City, AIT Chowk has become a major   point, especially during peak hours. “It takes me 7-8 minutes to reach AIT Chowk from the highway, but the problem starts thereafter. On bad days, I have to wait for 10-15 minutes there itself,” said Praveen, a resident of Sahyog Apartment in Sector 56. The situation is pretty much the same for commuters heading towards Cyber City from Sector 56.
  
  
 A TOI team that visited the crossing on Thursday afternoon to observe flow of   in real time, found sundry reasons for the inevitable logjam. The main factor was of the 16-lane Golf Course Road becoming a 6-lane sector road right after the crossing. 
 
 With huge numbers of vehicles exiting the underpasses and trying to jostle to approach the crossing, and with a narrower road ahead, traffic tailbacks were inevitable.
 
 An abject disregard for traffic rules, which of course is a wider phenomenon, was another big problem here. Many cars arriving from the Ansal University side and heading towards Sector 54 metro station or Jal Vayu Towers, instead of taking a left towards Sector 56, went straight ahead, cutting across traffic coming from Sector 54. “Some commuters also keep to the extreme left, when they are actually going to take a right turn towards the metro station at the roundabout. In their eagerness to jump ahead, they come in the way of traffic moving to other directions,” said Ruchika, a resident of DLF 1, who frequents the road.
 
 Traffic authorities said they are trying out various experiments on the stretch, and hope to make some changes in the coming weeks. Sandeep Malik, ACP (traffic) said, “A survey is being carried out by traffic police, and changes including installation of a traffic signal, are being considered.” 
 
 The problem is also exacerbated by the sheer number of autos, buses and taxis that stop and idle to pick up passengers near Sector 55-56 metro station. Several locals had requested the CM to extend the width of the road but the proposal, for which Huda even prepared a DPR, is yet to see light.
 
 A DLF spokesperson said they are coordinating with government agencies to improve traffic movement at the crossing. According to Huda officials, a DPR was prepared to extend the 16-lane road till it meets the ‘extension’ road. However, after GMDA was formed, the proposal was handed over to the new authority, and now lies with them.
 
 
