CHENNAI: Tamil Nadu governor   on Tuesday suspended   vice chancellor A  , who was arrested by the directorate of vigilance and anti-corruption in a 30 lakh alleged bribery case on Saturday. 

 A press release from   on Tuesday night said the higher education department had reported to the governor on Tuesday about Ganapathi's arrest. The release said the charges levelled against the VC were serious in nature and the governor, in his capacity as chancellor, has suspended Ganapathi with effect from February 6. "The suspension will continue until further orders," the release said. Sources said the Tamil Nadu government had recommended to governor to suspend Ganapathi in "public interest," following a report from DVAC. The VC was arrested for allegedly accepting bribe of Rs 30 lakh from an assistant professor to regularise his post.
 
 Earlier, the law department had communicated to the higher education department that since governor has "inherent power and jurisdiction" over the appointment of vice-chancellor, he could suspend him. "The DVAC report was forwarded to governor, who is chancellor and custodian of the varsities in the state, on Monday. Even though governor was touring Krishnagiri, Raj Bhavan asked for the higher education department's remarks on Tuesday. The reply was sent to Raj Bhavan on Tuesday evening for action against Ganapathi," said an official.
 
 
 
 
 Sources said the TN government had recommended to governor to suspend Ganapathi in “public interest,” following a report from DVAC. The VC was arrested for allegedly accepting bribe of ₹30 lakh from an assistant professor to regularise his post.
 
 Earlier, the law department had communicated to the higher education department that since governor has “inherent power and jurisdiction” over the appointment of vice-chancellor, he could suspend him. “The DVAC report was forwarded to governor, who is chancellor and custodian of the varsities in the state, on Monday. Even though governor was touring Krishnagiri, Raj Bhavan asked for the higher education department’s remarks on Tuesday. The reply was sent to Raj Bhavan on Tuesday evening for action against Ganapathi,” said an official.
 
 Since the VC has been suspended, the university syndicate would meet to decide setting up of a convener committee to manage the day-to-day affairs of the varsity, said an official. “The syndicate is likely to meet on Thursday or Friday. The committee will comprise two to four members. One of them will represent the government,” said another official.
 
 Incidentally, former vicechancellors of the same varsity, G James Pitchai and C Swaminathan are also facing DVAC investigation on charges of owning disproportionate assets and indulging in malpractices in recruitment. “In the case of Swaminathan, the government gave sanction to DVAC to prosecute him only in November last -after sitting on his file for more than five years. The FIR registered against him by DVAC says there were irregularities in the appointment of 24 assistant professors in 2012,” said a source.
 
