Ramanathapuram: It was a unique experience for the more than 1,920 pilgrims from here who returned from Katchatheevu after attending the two-day St Antony’s church festival on February 23 and 24. The group witnessed many new things beginning from the new church at the islet, a Sinhalese mass and a new flag post contributed by the pilgrims and fishermen.

 On Friday, the pilgrims from India left in 62 fishing trawlers in which two were spare boats. Upon arriving there, the new flag post was erected and the festival flag was hoisted after ceremonies conducted by Delft parish priest Yamil Paul. 
 
 It was followed by the ritual of way of the cross, a special car procession of St Antony around the church and a grand mass. 
 
 This was the first time Indian pilgrims attended the festival at the new church, as last year’s festival ran into controversy after K Bridjo, a fisherman from Rameswaram, was shot dead allegedly by the Sri Lankan navy and leaving another injured on night of March 6, 2017. All the fishermen had collectively boycotted the Katchatheevu festival that year. 
 
 The new church came up in 2016 after pilgrims from both countries expressed their desire for a new one. Sri Lankan navy undertook construction work of the church and it was supposed to be consecrated on December 7, 2016. However, the death of Jayalalithaa jeopardised the plans and the issue of fishermen leaders not invited for the consecration delayed the consecration. The church was finally consecrated on December 23, 2016 with the delegation of fishermen leaders from India in attendance. Meanwhile, Indian fishermen and pilgrims expressed their interest to contribute to the flag post. A sum of 2 lakh was collected and the post was made with teak wood. It was taken along with the group to Katchatheevu on Friday.
 
 Similarly, the Sinhalese mass was also of a first of its kind, celebrated by Galle Bishop Raymond Wickramasinghe on Saturday. Jaffna Bishop Justin B Gnanapragasam celebrated the holy mass in Tamil, which was attended by religious and laity from Sri Lanka and India. Verkodu parish priest Fr Antonysamy said the number of Sinhalese pilgrims is steadily increasing and hence the need for prayers in Sinhalese was felt at the festival.
 
 Among the dignitaries from Sri Lanka was commander of northern naval area, Rear Admiral Jayantha De Silva. 
 
 
