
 
 CHANDIGARH: Despite the ban imposed by the UT administration on the use of polythene bags, unregulated circulation is evident in various commercial sectors. The amount of plastic litter on the roads bears testimony to the fact that pollution caused by these bags is persistent. 

 Polythene bags can be spotted at vegetable stalls across the city.  , a vendor at Sector 26 vegetable market, said, "Plastic bags are way cheaper than cloth bags. We can't afford to spend extra on something that gives us no profit. We can only use these if the government introduces subsidies on cloth bags."
 
  Agreeing with the preponderant economic trouble, SDM (east) Arjun Sharma said, "Though the awareness campaigns have managed to reach every nook and corner of the city, economy plays a vital role in determining the use of the knowledge gained. Plythene bags are cheaper, so grocers prefer them to cloth or jute bags." 
 
 Regular inspections are conducted time and again to check the use of polythene bags, said Sharma.
 
 Talking about the unabated use of polythene  , a regular visitor of Sector 19 market, said, "The use of polythene bags is a common site in the city, especially in small departmental stores."
 
 Maheep Rai at Sector 20 vegetable market also found many stores using plastic bags.
 
 The dream of a pollution-free city falls flat when it fails to provide packaging alternatives.  , owner of a food joint in Sector 27, said, "Even though the government has banned plastic bags, I fail to understand why items like milk, lassi and water are being sold in plastic packaging. These are more harmful for consumers as they come in direct contact with the plastic."
 
 However, some residents have pledged to drive pollution out of the city. "We only use cloth bags and even encourage customers to bring their own," said  , who works at a confectionery in Sector 19. Busting the myth that roadside vendors make more use of plastic bags,   only uses paper plates at his chat stall in Sector 19. "For take outs, we encourage customers to bring their bowls. This helps reduce paper waste as well."
 
 
