BHOPAL: The state   on Saturday expelled its Ujjain (rural) unit general secretary,   from primary membership of the party after a viral video showed him making derogatory remarks against the farmers. 

 Anjana, who was also a member of state BJP  , says in the video that farmers are dishonest and accuses them of taking undue advantage of government schemes. "Farmers have turned dishonest and cheats. They are reaping benefits of government schemes. What   has done for farmers was done by no other chief minister in the state and no one will do so in the future. Farmers were paid Rs 800 per quintal for garlic and those who had not grown the crop also got themselves registered in the mandis to reap benefits in connivance with traders. They are thieves, cheats and they should be thrashed," Anjana is heard saying in the video.
 
 He also hurled abusive remarks against farmers, which angered farmers less than a week before their planned 10-day strike that already has the administration on tenterhooks. Party leaders also objected to his remarks and the BJP leadership took swift action. Party state president Rakesh Singh expelled Anjana. 
 
 "Party has sacked Anjana with immediate effect for using abusive language against farmers. He has been relieved of all organisational responsibilities. For BJP, honour and welfare of farmers is top priority and there is no place for a person who talks cheap about peasants," said BJP state media in-charge,   on Saturday.
 
 Party leaders were alarmed that when CM Chouhan is touring the state to persuade them from joining any protest, Anjana's statement would insult the farming community and provoke them into agitation. The party took quick action to prevent Congress from taking up the issue, but Congress leaders weren't to be silenced. They condemned Anjana's statement and said "BJP's love for farmers has been exposed with the video clip".
 
 The party has sacked Ajana. For BJP, honour and welfare of farmers is top priority and there is no place for a person who talks cheap about peasants.
 
