NAGPUR: Under pressure from barons running education colleges,   (NU) has indefinitely called off the local enquiry committee’s ( ) inspections of all such affiliated institutes.

 Vice-chancellor SPKane told TOI that the direction has been amended and will be notified soon.
 
 “Some education colleges have complained that they were unable to apply for   assessment for some time. Without the NAAC rating, they would not have got LEC recommendation for continuation of affiliation. Hence, the norms had to be relaxed,” he said.
 
 When asked about another NU direction of 2016 which made all National Council of Teachers’ Education (NCTE) norms of 2014 a must, Kane said it may be repealed if required.
 
 Last month, NU had notified new direction making NAAC score and appointment of at least 75% full-time faculty. Sources said besides dropping NAAC, the faculty requirement too has been lowered to 50%.
 
 With the inspection postponed, the academic schedule has gone for a toss as NU had set April 30 deadline for making list of colleges fulfilling all norms public. Now, it may have to notify two separate lists of education and non-education colleges.
 
 The revision of direction has also raised question on the confidence reposed by NU in its board of deans, which had formulated the stringent norms.
 
 In fact, the NU had conveniently adopted the revised NCTE norms of 2014 two years ago. Those NCTE norms had inadvertently skipped NET/Set requirement in 2014. Therefore, NU had readily incorporated them so that candidates having MEd qualification but not NET/SET could be recruited. Approval were also given to such fresher candidates for appointment as assistant professor.
 
 On the hand, the NCTE norms were harsh for colleges and were now posing hurdles for conducting inspection by LEC. NCTE norms calls for 100% teachers strength besides sound infrastructure and facilities for students. Already, relaxation of 75% for teacher recruitment was given in the new NU direction, which too has been brought down to 50%.
 
 
