The popular all-girl band from  ,  , who are performing in the city today. This vocal quartet from   is well-known for their unique folk-fusion musical notes, as much as they are for their sense of fashion that strikingly resonates the vibrant tribal fabrics and accessories of their region. This time around, sisters Mercy, Kuvelü and Alüne Lulu Tetseo are coming to the city with a few special numbers from their upcoming album. They will be accompanied by their brother, musician Mhaseve K Tetseo.

  “We are really thrilled to be back in Bengaluru — to catch up with old friends and make new ones. The city has an energetic   circuit. There’s a lot to learn from here and showcase our music, in exchange. Like in most parts of the country, audiophiles in Bengaluru seem to love and appreciate our music. And that brings us back here to perform,” says Mercy, adding, “We’ll be singing some songs from our yet-to-be launched album, along with a few other popular tracks from the past. It’s going to be a full package of entertainment.”
 
  So, who brainstorms on your costumes and look? “It’s actually quite an effort to maintain the tribal style statement. We work with local designers and stylists through the year to come up with different blends and trends. These clothes and accessories are quite expensive. But these are essential to preserve our motto — to stay rooted and identical to the essence of our region,” Mercy adds.
 
  Formed in 1994, Tetseo Sisters have been performing across various concerts and music fests around the globe. “The music scene in the Northeast is quite eclectic. Although events like the Hornbill Festival and Ziro Festival have managed to put the focus back in the region, we need more exchange of artistes and music with the rest of the country. There should be mini Hornbill Festivals happening in different parts of India for people to see and understand the flavours of our culture better,” signs off Mercy.
 
  
 
  celebrate the beauty and colours of the hills, the songs and stories of life in their region through the language of 
 . 
 
 
