PUNE: The crime branch of the Pune police on Thursday arrested four men from Vapi railway station in   for robbing Payal Gold in Raviwar Peth of cash and 800g gold, totally worth Rs 24.73 lakh, on Wednesday.

 The suspects, Manish Swar (25),   (27), Prakash Khadka (27) and Manoj Bagoti (21), from Nepal were preparing to flee the country when they were nabbed. The crime   also arrested two of their accomplices, Gokul Oad (20) and Hansaraj Kami (23), from Pune. 
 
 The crime branch recovered 650g of gold worth Rs 20 lakh from the suspects. “Two more accomplices are on the run,” additional commissioner of police Pradip Deshpande said, adding that the suspects were arrested with the help of Railway Protection Force (RPF). 
 
 A probe revealed that Swar and Kuwar had robbed a gold polishing shopowner of 40g gold and cash, collectively worth Rs 1.77 lakh, on February 10. “We haverecovered the booty,” Deshpande said.
 
 Inspector Nitin Bhosale Patil (unit-I) said the four arrested suspects were working at different   shops in the city during the day and used to work as watchmen at different establishments. “Bagoti and Kami wanted to start their own business in Nepal, for which they decided to rob jewelers. Oad gave them a tip-off about Payal Gold in Raviwar Peth,” he said. 
 
 Manoj Jain, partner of the Payal Gold, told TOI that around 3pm, three men entered the shop and pulled down the shutter. “One man was carrying a sack containing choppers, which the duo used to threaten me. They then cut the wires of the CCTV and asked me to hand over everything I had in the shop,” Jain said.
 
 “ After the  , the suspects went to Mumbai,” Pankaj Dahane, deputy commissioner of police, said.
 
 Dahane said police identified Swar after showing CCTV footage to Raviwar Peth residents and detained his wife, who was also trying to flee the country. “She told us that the gang members were travelling by Dehradun Express and were on their way to Nepal,” Dahane said. Consequently, the RPF was alerted and the four suspects were nabbed.
 
 
