SURAT:   into the Rs 20-crore   revealed that the  , who targeted two   on the crowded  , ran for nearly 1.5km with the looted booty without anyone trying to catch them.

 In fact, the plan to park their vehicles away from spot of loot and running up till there helped them the most.
 
 The three robbers, who started running with the looted diamonds from Katargam Safe Deposit Vault area on March 14 late evening, had the fastest run of their life. They were running on the road leaving no space for vehicles to overtake them. Their movement was captured on several CCTV cameras on the road but the thieves were fearless as they were not leaving behind any identity related to their vehicles, which would have landed them in police net sooner.
 
 On the other hand, the loot victims had to get down from their car on the overcrowded road and walk with the valuables up to the safe deposit vault. The roads and lanes were overcrowded around Godhani Circle in Katargam since it was the closing time of various units. The area houses several small and medium diamond polishing units where thousands of artisans leave their premises around 7 pm.
 
 Diamond hubs in Katargam and Varachha are few areas where it is difficult for anyone to even walk freely during the time of opening and closing hours of business. Many are surprised how a gang could escape with a huge bag of looted diamonds without being challenged by anyone.
 
 “Thousands of people related to diamond industry were present around the spot but no one tried to stop the robbers. May be the robbers had an idea about their behaviour because of which they carried out the loot fearlessly,” said a police officer.
 
 The two-wheelers were parked at a distance where there was no clear coverage of CCTV cameras. Later, they escaped to their hideouts.
 
 Sources in police informed that ultimately their vehicle numbers had helped police crack the case when cops found suspicious movement of some individuals on a motorcycle in the area few days before the loot. Police traced the individuals from their motorcycle registration number.
 
