NAGPUR: Relatives and family members of a patient created ruckus at Midas Multispecialty Hospital Pvt Ltd almost for five hours alleging negligence on the part of doctors leading to death of an 18-year-old patient   on Tuesday.

 The aggrieved kin claimed that the hospital authorities told them that the patient was recovering till Monday night and suddenly pronounced the patient dead on Tuesday morning.
 
 The doctors, on the other hand, claim that the kin were informed about the patient’s condition from time-to-time since Tushar was admitted on April 4 at 12.50am. The patient was brought in with hepatitis E infection and gradually his condition deteriorated. The patient’s condition worsened on Monday night, the doctors said.
 
 Dr  , MD of the hospital and senior gastroenterologist, told TOI that the patient’s bilirubin levels, which should be about 2, measured above 50 and the SGOT and SGPOT levels, which should be about 30, were over 4,500.
 
 “We had told the patient’s relatives right in the beginning that it was a case of acute liver failure and may require liver transplant. I had seen the patient myself on Monday. The ICU intensivists were also seeing him regularly. The patient landed up in acute respiratory distress syndrome and we put him initially on non-invasive ventilator and later on invasive ventilator. The patient landed up slowly into kidney failure and multi-organ failure. Patient’s brother was told about the condition,” said Dr Mukewar.
 
 The relatives claimed that the hospital asked them to pay Rs20,000 before taking the body. They also claimed that the hospital did not give a death certificate which forced them to come in big numbers to the hospital to ask for it.  , the patient’s cousin, said the hospital told that death occurred at 8.15am on Tuesday and the ECG report showed the time as 8.45am. “Had the hospital given the reports and death certificate, we would not have created such a scene there,” he said.
 
 Dr Rakesh Dhoke, intensivist and ICU in-charge, told TOI that the relatives were issued provisional death certificate. “The body was handed over to the relatives between 9.30am and 10am. We kept the relatives updated. We didn’t even take the balance payment and handed over the body. Yet they created ruckus in the hospital,” he said.
 
 Even as the relatives were creating ruckus, over 30-40 doctors from   and the   also gathered at the hospital to express their solidarity with the Midas doctors.
 
 While the police (called by hospital administration) played the role of mediator and restored communication between the two parties, there was a mob shouting slogans against the doctors in front of the hospital building. Finally, the police suggested the relatives to go for postmortem to ascertain the cause of death. Accordingly, the body from the patient’s residence in Timki was taken to the Government Medical College and Hospital.
 
 Police inspector Vaijani Mandhavdhar of Bajaj Nagar police station said, “As of now, we have registered a case of accidental death. However, the allegations made by the relatives will be probed during further investigations after receiving the reports of postmortem and chemical analysis.”
 
 
