PATNA: Loyola High School, Patna, emerged as the overall champion in Montfort Literary and Cultural   2018, while St Aloysius School, Ranchi, finished as the second best team. Over 450 students from 20 schools under Brothers of St Gabriel Society participated in the fest at Loyola High School here. Apart from  , schools from  , Odisha and   also participated.

 Rev Bro Clement, provincial superior of Ranchi province, was the chief guest and Rev Bro Johnson guest of honour. In group dance, first prize was bagged by St Aloysius School, Ranchi. In group song, skit and meme competition, Loyola High School, Patna, bagged the first prize.
 
 In Hindi elocution category, first prize was bagged by Ankit Kumar Sahu of St Joseph’s School, Noatoli, second prize by Sandeep Thakur of St Gabriel’s High School, Dhawaiya and third prize by Kaushal Kumar Pandey of St Aloysius School, Ranchi.
 
 In English elocution, Anushka Bhardwaj of Montfort School, Bagaha, bagged the first prize followed by Anshi Kumari of Loyola High School, Patna. Richa Kamari of St Montfort Sr Sec School, Kolkata, and Shruti Kumari of Montfort School, Hazaribagh, got the third prize. In Hindi debate competition, Pankaj Gope of St Gabriel’s High School, Dhawaiya, got the first prize, Junaid Ansari of St Joseph’s School, Kanke, second prize and the third prize went to Naaz Parween of St John’s School, Nawatanr.
 
 In English debate category, first prize was bagged by Shristi Saumya of Loyola High School, Patna, followed by Deevya Deo of Cambridge School, Cuttack and Anushka Bhardwaj of Montfort School, Bagaha, who got the second and third prizes, respectively. In extempore (Hindi) competition, first prize was bagged by Md Raquif of St Aloysius School, Ranchi. The second prize in this category was jointly bagged by Manish Kumar Sahu of St Joseph’s School, Kanke and Sumit Gope of St John’s School, Nawatanr. The third prize went to Nitin Barla of St Vianney’s School, Lachragarh. In English extempore category, the first prize was bagged by Shubhangi Anand of Loyola High School, Patna, second prize by Deevya Deo of Cambridge School, Cuttack and third prize by Baibhav Jha of St Montfort SE Sec School, Kolkata.
 
 In Hindi Storytelling (junior) category, first prize was bagged by Akansha Kamari of St Gabriel’s High School, Dhawaiya, second prize by Mohammad Zaid of St Joseph’s School, Kanke and third prize by Deep Kumar of St Aloysius School, Ranchi. In English storytelling (junior) category, first prize was bagged by Prakhar Mishra of Loyola High School, Patna, second prize by Anupama Kumari of Montfort School, Ranchi and third prize by Shivani Rastogi of Cambridge School, Cuttack.
 
 Utkarsh Tejas of Loyola High School, Patna, bagged the first prize in painting competition followed by Sunny Kashyap of St Joseph’s School, Kanke, who got the second prize. The third prize in this category was bagged by three students – Gautam Nayak of St Joseph’s School, Kanke, Anmol Kumar Singh of St Aloysius School, Ranchi and Rishav Raj of St Montfort SE Sec School, Noatoli.
 
 In solo song (junior) category, first prize was bagged by Kasif Raza of St Aloysius School, Ranchi, second prize jointly by Srija Singh of Loyola High School, Patna and S K Ainan of Montfort School, Hazaribagh and the third prize went to Rajan Kisku of Montfort School, Kanabandh. In solo song (senior) category, the first prize was bagged by   of Loyola High School, Patna, second prize by Sanskruti Priyadarshani of Cambridge School, Cuttack. Third prize in this category was bagged by two students – Nikhil Ain of Montfort SE Sec School, Noatoli and Nishi Kumari of St Gabriel’s High School, Dhawaiya.
 
 IIT-Patna annual fest: ‘Anwesha’, the three-day annual techno-cultural festival of IIT-Patna, will begin on February 2. As part of pre-fest event, flash mob and city rush competitions were organised on Sunday in which Nivedita Singh and Amitesh Gupta of NIT-Patna bagged the first position. Sejal Shah and Sakshi of Patna Women’s College came second and Hit Vardan and Mridul of IIT-Patna third.
 
 Comedian Sahil Shah and DJ Jack Eye Jones are expected to perform during the festival. Flagship events of the fest will be organised on second night, which will include a fashion show, Mr and Ms Anwesha, Syngphony and dance competition. The last night of the fest will be celebrated as rock night with performances by famous bands Nalayak and Chaar Hazari. Along with cultural and performing arts, various technical events will also be organised throughout the fest along with management events like Model   and parliamentary debate.
 
 
