SURAT: The   meant for poor and selling them in   seems to be getting bigger with the arrest of two more persons on Sunday. 

 The police arrested two more persons involved in the racket, taking the total number of arrests to four. Those arrested were   (52) and Lakshman alias Channu Bhanwarlal Boliwal (35), both residents of Udhna. The two accused were working with the the FPS owners and helped them in running the racket at their shops.
 
 Earlier on Friday, police had arrested two FPS owners Babulal Boriwal (53) and Sampatlal Shah (61). Police have also identified some persons working with the company that collected the biometric data of ration card holders and that data was later stolen to be sold to the racketeers. 
 
 The suspicion is strong that the scam is not limited to the district but spread across the state.
 
 Satish Sharma, police commissioner, said, “It is possible that this is a state-wide racket and we are working to find out the links between those arrested in city with those supporting it from outside. So far involvement of some persons from agencies hired by government to collect the biometric data has been found.”
 
 They were booked under various IPC sections 406, 409 (criminal breach of trust), 467, 468, 471 (forgery), as well as sections of IT Act and Essential Commodities Act. They were arrested after eight complaints were registered in different police stations by officials of the Surat district collectorate following complaints of irregularities.
 
 Police investigation so far revealed that the shop owners purchased the software from the racketeers at price ranging from Rs 15,000 to Rs 25,000. Using the software, they inserted the  , their matching biometric data of thumb impression and Aadhar card number of the beneficiaries. 
 
 The accused pilfered food grains meant for NFSA beneficiaries by showing purchases. The transaction took place without knowledge of the actual registered beneficiary since he did not go to purchase the food grain for that particular period. The pilfered food grains that were made available at Rs 2 per kg to the beneficiaries was later sold in market at higher prices.
 
 “We are questioning the accused to find out that how they sourced the data and the software,” said B N Dave, police inspector, crime branch.
 
 
