West Germany, hosting the 1974 World Cup as reigning European champions, were desperate to prove to the world that they could host any major sporting event in the aftermath of ‘Munich Massacre’ during the 1972 Olympics. East Germany getting clubbed with their West German counterparts in the same group, raised the political temperature before the event as the hosts couldn’t imagine losing to their neighbours.

 
 
 
 Despite using a specially designed computer to predict weather, most of the matches had to be played on waterlogged grounds which saw visiting teams struggle to adapt to the conditions.
 
 Playing under their legendary star Johan Cruyff, the Netherlands team won admirers from across the globe with ‘Total Football’ in which players switched positions and roles with remarkable ability. And during the World Cup, Cruyff gifted the game a move that became popularly known as ‘Cruyff turn’ that had not just the Swedish defender in dismay but left fans across the world in bewilderment. The Netherlands were expected to lift the title but the Dutch team’s overconfidence before the final, according to the West German team, did them in.
 
 
 
 The West German players, meanwhile, bargained hard with   for a hefty bonus if they won the title and they played the whole tournament under a lot of pressure. Their unexpected defeat against East Germany in the group stage only complicated matters but the loss did help them as their second-place finish in the group helped them avoid Brazil, the Netherlands and Argentina in the second group stage. With no semifinals, the team that finished as two group toppers in the second round went on to play in the final.
 
 With coach Helmut Schon on the verge of a nervous breakdown after the loss against East Germany, Franz Beckenbauer took charge of the team as the captain transformed a fractious side into a cohesive unit. The second group phase was not a tough one for West Germans as they won all their matches with ease to book their final showdown with the Netherlands.
 
 The Netherlands’ total football was a flawless affair on the ground but an unwarranted controversy off the pitch had its effects on the team in the final against West Germany. A German tabloid carried an article on the eve of the final saying the Dutch side had a naked party before their game against Brazil involving four unnamed Dutch players and two German girls.
 
 The tabloid claimed to have the pictures of the party, but it never came out. The pool scandal was a shock for the Dutch stars and proving innocence to their dear ones became a more major worry than the final to many of their players including Cruyff.
 
 In the final, Germany were not in the picture in the early minutes and the Netherlands’ ball possession was incredible. They were given a penalty in just the second minute of the match. Johan Neeskens did not waste his golden opportunity and gave the Dutch 1-0 lead. The early goal unsettled German plans but they came back in the 25th minute scoring through Paul Breitner’s spot kick. After finding the equalizer, the Germans gained control and beat the Netherlands in their own game. Gerd Muller scored the winner in the 43rd minute to help Beckenbauer lift the trophy in his third World Cup appearance.
 
