If a hot cup of ginger tea doesn’t sound appealing to you in this scorching heat, then it’s time to try some delicious tea-infused beverages that are being served at Doon cafes and eateries. From combinations of paan, mint leaves and tea to infusing tea with cucumber and cranberries – there is no dearth of options for tea-lovers in the city this season.

 
 
 Sherab, manager of Kalsang AMA Cafe on  , says, “Our most popular drink is the Lemon Mint Iced Tea. Unlike the traditional lemon iced tea, we add fresh mint leaves and not just lemon slice to the drink, which doesn’t just add taste to the beverage but also helps in soothing the stomach. We have some regular customers for this particular drink.” 
 
 Swati Sharma, a college student, who lives in Jakhan, says, “Whenever I visit this cafe, I make sure to have the Lemon Mint Iced Tea. It’s delicious and keeps my system cool. Rather than aerated drinks, I prefer having such drinks as they are tasty and healthy at the same time.”
 
  
  Lemon Mint Iced Tea
 
 
 Gaurav Negi, owner at   on Rajpur Road, says, “This summer we have included Mango Iced Tea to our menu. The beverage is made up of mango syrup, sugar syrup, freshly brewed tea and ice. The goodness of mango, mixed with tea, is what makes the drink a hit with our customers.” 
 
 Sanchit Garg, a photographer who lives in  , says, “Iced teas are among my favourite beverages in summer and currently, I am in love with the Mango Iced Tea. Mango is my favourite fruit and when it is blended with tea, it gives a unique taste. It is one of the yummiest beverage that I’ve had in summers!”
 
  
  Mango Iced Tea
 
 
 Ankit Aggarwal, owner of   and   near  , says, “We have a long list of flavoured iced teas in our menu. The most popular ones include Cucumber and Cranberry Iced Teas. Cucumber’s property to keep the body cool in summers has made the drink our bestseller this season. Whereas, Cranberry Iced Tea’s tangy, sweet taste has made it popular among youngsters.” 
 
 Amit Ahuja, a CA student who lives in Chandralok Colony, says, “Whenever I go to Mussoorie Diversion, I make sure to have the Cucumber Iced Tea coupled with my favourite pastry or puff at this bakery.It’s one of the best summer drinks.”
 
  
  Cranberry Iced Tea
 
  
  Cucumber Iced Tea
 
 
 Varun Gulati, owner of Nany’s Bakery and Cafe on  , says, “We’ve introduced three iced teas this season – Watermelon, Green Apple and Paan Iced Teas. They are perfect for those who want to relax during hot sultry afternoons. Watermelon Iced Tea is made of freshly brewed tea infused with watermelon pieces, chilled water and ice, topped with mint leaves. The Green Apple Iced Tea comprises freshly brewed tea infused with chopped green apple pieces, chilled water and ice, topped with green apple slices. Paan Iced Tea is made up of freshly brewed tea, paan leaves, gulkand, and mint leaves. Among all the three drinks, Paan Iced Tea is the most in demand and it is mainly because of its unique gulkand flavour.” 
 
 Vrinda Dabral, a resident of Vasant Vihar, says, “Recently, I discovered Watermelon Iced Tea at this bakery while buying a cake for a friend’s birthday. I tried it and instantly fell in love with it. The watermelon pieces add to the awesomeness of this drink and I make sure to have it whenever I come to this side of the town.”
 
  
  Paan Iced Tea
 
  
  Green Apple Iced Tea
 
  
  Watermelon Iced Tea
 
 
 Anand Kanti, owner of T-Bistro at EC Road, says, “Among the various iced teas in our menu, Hibiscus and Lavender Iced Teas are the most popular ones. Ice crushed with mint, with hibiscus flavoured tea and hibiscus leaves, are used to make Hibiscus Iced Tea. For Lavender Iced Tea, we mix lavender tea with mint and crushed ice. These tasty drinks are the best beverages to rejuvenate in this hot weather.” 
 
 Rahul Kapoor, an interior designer, who lives in Dalanwala, says, “I'm a regular visitor to this cafe. Last week, I tried the Hibiscus Iced Tea and the unique taste of hibiscus leaves is what makes this drink so tasty. I love to make different mocktails at home and I will try to make this drink at home.”
 
  
  Hibiscus Iced Tea
 
  
  Lavender Iced Tea
 
 - Taresh Dutta
 
 
 
 
 
