RAJKOT: Three months after an old woman’s death was registered as a suicide, the city police have found that she was actually killed by her own 36-year-old son. 

 Police arrested  , a lecturer at a city-based college, and booked him for the murder of his 64-year-old mother Jayshree. 
 
 On September 27, police had registered a case of suicide after prima facie it looked like Jayshree had jumped from the terrace of   in Gandhigram area, where she was living.
 
 However, they got an anonymous letter stating that her death was not a suicide, but murder. Along with the letter, they received CCTV footage of the building following which a detailed probe was initiated. The CCTV footages clearly showed that Jayshree was terminally ill and it was not possible for her to climb the terrace wall to jump..
 
 The CCTV footage clearly showed that Jayshree was too ill to walk and she could barely climb one rung of the steps to the terrace. Sandip is seen holding her for support and she manages to climb with extreme difficulty. Probe revealed that she had suffered a brain haemorrhage, which had severely affected her lower body.
 
 Deputy commissioner of police   said, “We found from the CCTV footage that Jayshreeben’s son was with her. Looking at her ill condition, it was not possible for her to climb the 2.5 feet terrace wall and jump down. The role of her son then came under scanner.” 
 
 During initial interrogation, Sandip told the cops that his mother had gone for sun obeisance on the terrace and he was only helping her. However, he broke down eventually and confessed that he was fed up of her prolonged poor health. Hence, he decided to kill her. 
 
 Due to her illness, there were frequent fights between Sandip and his wife. Neighbours also told police that sometimes the quarrels used to be so acrimonious that their voices were heard in other houses. The duo even had heated verbal duels with Jayshree. Unable to take it any longer, Sandip decided to kill her, Vaghela said.
 
 Jayshree was a retired schoolteacher, while Sandip teaches at   near Aji Dam crossroads.
 
 
