LUCKNOW: In a big relief to the residents of trans-Gomti areas who end up spending up to an hour on travelling to   and Hazratganj and undergo the stress of negotiating through the grinding traffic, the PWD is aiming to complete the 5.20 km embankment road along   connecting   with Gomti Barrage by March 2019.

 The new six-lane bypass will bring down the commuting time from 45-60 minutes to just 15 minutes. The project had been stuck since last eight years for want of approval from the ministry of defence.
 
  
  
 
 The project comprising 5.20 km embankment road, including a 930 metre flyover-cum-ROB (railway overbridge) near Faizabad Road, had been sanctioned in 2009 to ease traffic on   and   and reduce inconvenience to residents of Aliganj, Mahanagar, Vikasnagar, Khurramnagar, Triveninagar, etc.
 
 The government had sanctioned Rs 33 crore for the road and Rs 48 crore for ROB cum flyover, of which a large chunk was utilised by 2010 when the project came to an abrupt halt because of two land patches of defence coming in the way.
 
 It was only after sustained efforts and paper work by state government and active involvement of Lucknow MP and Union home minister   that defence authorities gave approval for two stretches of land — one between Faizabad Road and Khurramnagar and the other between Faizabad Road and Gomti Barrage — a week ago.
 
 Till date, UPPWD has built 2.5 km of road and UP State Bridge Corporation (UPSBC) has completed 590 metres of flyover. Only the bridge over the railway line is left.
 
 UPSBC’s general manager   said, “We are in talks with railways and expect its nod soon. Our work would get over by mid-December.”
 
 UPPWD is, however, aiming to complete the project by March 2019 due to massive increase in project cost. UPPWD’s chief engineer Rajpal Singh said, “The cost has doubled because of the eight-year delay. As per revised estimate, the road cost has shot up from Rs 33 crore to Rs 75 crore. The flyover’s cost has increased from Rs 48 crore to 81 crore. We need government’s fund sanction.”
 
 
