With the redesigned street spaces, cycle-sharing project and   work in progress, the city is taking steady steps towards realising the   tag. In the process, the   (PSCDCL) authorities are also seeking suggestions from youngsters and as a part of this endeavour, a Smart City Otta Market competition was recently held in the city wherein students from different architecture colleges participated.

  To understand what they consider as parameters of a smart marketplace, these students were asked to design flea, self-help and group markets for Aundh, Baner and Balewadi areas. The   in Pune secured first position and Dr   received the consolation prize in this competition. While speaking about the same, students from different architecture colleges of the city also opened a healthy discussion about the good aspects of the project and what can be improved in order to live up to the smart city tag.
 
  
 
 
 
  Although the students say that metro in the long run is a good move, they feel it should have been planned better. “Some narrow roads on the route are not suitable for the metro. These areas would be prone to traffic jams. There should have been a plan chalked on basis of a better background study,” says Aishwarya Tupe, a student of BRICK School of Architecture. Her point is seconded by Chaitrali Padamwar, another student from the college, who says, “At Shivaji Nagar, the metro station will be situated 100 meters away from the railway station. But our survey and the commuters’ opinion have revealed that it would be more convenient to have the station at the same block as the railway station so that more people will be willing to use it.”
 
  
 
  
 
 
  The major concern Puneites face when they venture in the Peth areas is that of finding parking space. “We have decentralised parking lots constructed in the Peth areas which decrease the road width and cause a lot of traffic congestion,” says Vishweshwari Pardeshi, a student from   for women (BNCA), adding, “Constructing a multi-storey parking space in a relatively less crowded area would help better in curbing the traffic situations in this part of the town.”
 
  
 
  
 
 
  A lot of people have started using cycles, thanks to the PEDL project. Sharing her opinion about the reason behind this,  , a student from BNCA, says, “Instead of imposing it on people, it was portrayed as a cool way of transportation. This can go a long way in reducing traffic.” However, she adds that citizens need to stop using cycling tracks as parking spaces. “The tracks are meant for cyclists and we need to respect that,” she says.
 
  
 
  Regular commuters on these road stretches have been encountering traffic snarls and Twisha Raja, a student from BNCA, feels that this has worsened the traffic situation in the city. “Widening the footpaths and introducing cycle tracks has reduced the width of motorable roads,” says Twisha. Her fellow student Pratiksha Dhoka opines, “The whole idea is to make people less dependent on private vehicles. I think narrow roads and high parking fees should be implemented so that people will start opting for public transport hence, solving the problem.”
 
  
 
  
 
 
 We should have more skywalks. Once the metro is in place I wouldn’t want to come out, climb down the station and cross the road. Skywalks can sort this out and ensure safety of citizens. 
 
  
 
 
  
 
  I think we should focus more on development of non-conventional sources of energy along with development of infrastructure. This would truly make the city smart.
 
  
 
 
  
 
  There is a need to focus on universal accessibility as well. In the present scenario, differently abled persons struggle to move around in market places, government facilities as well as public transport.
 
 
 
 The trend of glass buildings should be broken. They trap heat making use of excess electricity. Instead, eco-friendly materials should be used to ensure good ventilation and minimal use of electricity.
 
  
 
 
 Permissions are being given for construction in the flood lines of our rivers. This could cause flooding in the city in the future.
 
  
 
 
  
 The excessive hoardings on the roads are causing visual pollution. Their number needs to be restricted for a neater looking city skyline.
 
  
 
 
  
 I think there should be better waste-management policies. The city should be kept clean and it should be well maintained.
 
  
 
 
  
 
  We want youngsters to participate in designing of the smart city. Hence, we conducted the Otta market competition. The creative responses we received from these youngsters will be considered for our projects. In fact, they can share the ideas beyond the competition as well.
 
  
 
 
 
