SHIMLA: Following the directions of   high court which had observed that the authorities are duty bound to ensure that owners and stakeholders do not cause any cruelty to horses and ponies used by tourists, the Shimla municipal corporation has identified a place, immediately below the Ridge, where these animals can be given shelter to protect them from rain and snow.

 At present, there are 17 persons who have been issued ‘horse licence’ by the superintendent estate,  . These horse owners use the animals on identified and earmarked routes. At present, ponies are tethered in the open on the Ridge itself.
 
 But the problem arises when it rains or snows. Whereas the owners run for shelter, they leave their horses covered with a plastic sheet and tethered to the pole in the open only to suffer.
 
 “In our considered view, the concept of inalienable rights, within the framework of Rule of Law, applies as much to animal life as it would to humans. The vagaries and harshness of the weather, at times, is cruel in nature. Neither the horse owners nor the authorities issuing the licences can adopt an attitude of indifference to this suffering, causing immense cruelty,” the division bench of acting Chief Justice   and Justice   had observed in a recent judgment.
 
 Through a letter petition, Shimla resident   had brought into the notice of court the plight of horses stationed at the Ridge. The petitioner had submitted that there is no appropriate shelter for the horses at the Ridge during the rains and so they need to be protected.
 
 Following the direction of court, the Shimla deputy commissioner on November 10 last year had asked the Shimla municipal corporation to look into the matter and take appropriate steps to redress the grievances as mentioned in the above case.
 
 The MC commissioner has informed the court that necessary action for clearing and cleaning the passage; removing the encroachments, if any, shall be taken up at the earliest and the place would be made available for use before February 28.
 
 
