CENTURION: The growing legend of the wicked Indian wrist-spin once again sat on its bedevilling broom and flew past the SuperSport Park here at the Centurion on Sunday morning. In no time, it made the psyched out South Africans fall prey to a spell that's bound to leave them haunted for a while to come.

 
 
 
 Spectators - both South African and Indian - arrived at the leisurely grassbanks here in the morning, their sandwiches and drinks neatly packed, hoping for a delightful Sunday.
 
 Nevertheless, it was a Sunday that ended up ruining many an afternoon plan. The match got over minutes after lunch with South Africa registering their lowest ever One-Day International total at home and the eighth lowest overall - 118 all out in 32.2 overs - and India chasing the target with 29.3 overs and nine wickets to spare. It was India's biggest win over the hosts in terms of the number of balls remaining - 177 - spelling out very clearly how rankled the World's No. 1 team can get against spin.
 
 
  
 
  and Kuldeep Yadav, the sorcerers on the broom stick, shared eight wickets between them after South Africa lost the toss and were put in to bat first. In the absence of Faf du Plessis and AB de Villiers, the 23-year-old Aiden Markram led the home team only to be found exposed against the Indian spin duo.
 
 
 
 
 South Africa did not lose a wicket until the 10th over when opener   nicked one to MS Dhoni, called for a review that wasn't, and left. In the 11th over,   introduced Chahal from one end, followed by Kuldeep Yadav in the 12th. That one change in the attack began to spell the necessary doom for the home team.
 
 By the time South Africa registered the next 12 runs on board, Quinton de Kock, Markram and   were all back in the pavilion and barring what  , Khaya Zondo and   managed to put together on the board - 64 runs between them - the rest of the line-up simply walked in and walked out. South Africa lost six wickets within six overs when they managed to put merely 18 runs on board.
 
 It was submission at its worst from the hosts, clearly left embattled after the loss of two of their most prominent batsmen. Ill-timed strokes, coupled with lack of patience and little understanding of how to get under the ball that made them wait for eternity on a very sluggish track didn't help.
 
 From 39 for no loss to 51-4 and from 99 for 5 to 118 all out underlined the day's story. South Africa were bowled out more than 90 minutes before the scheduled lunch break.
 
 Earlier in the day, when Virat Kohli won the toss and put South Africa in to bat first, Markram said he'd have been happy to bowl second on this wicket believing the wicket would assist quality turn as the game progressed. However, it was the inability of his own spinners - Imran Tahir and Tabraiz Shamsi - to control the pace in the air that rendered them relatively ineffective when India began the chase.
 
  and   began on an aggressive note, with the former pulling   for a six over mid-wicket that set the ball rolling. Sharma survived a caught-behind appeal, thanks to a confident referral, but soon fell to a good bouncer off Kagiso Rabada and made way for the in-form Kohli to seal the chase.
 
