MAXEM: With the October 2009 flooding disaster in Canacona still fresh in their minds, villagers are apprehensive of the haphazard reclamation of River Galgibaga for a four-lane bridge. The project, being constructed without an environment impact assessment (EIA), has raised fears about the long-term impacts on the river’s flow dynamics.

 The construction of the vital link between Canacona town and   by way of two bridges on NH 66 is expected to cut travel distance by 20km. However, the Maxem-Galgibaga section of the highway at the southern end poses a challenge as it passes through the river mouth in proximity to the sea.
 
 The PWD had originally begun work for a two-lane bridge in Maxem bay. Burying a part of the river’s eastern bank close to a row of houses, the department had, in the year 2000, raised a 12-metre-high and 370-metre-long wall. After leaving a 100-metre gap for a bridge over the river channel, an 80-metre embankment was extended southward towards Loliem, with one-metre drainage pipes into the river. 
 
 Villagers protests’ over the illegal filling had subsequently brought the project to a grinding halt. When it was revived in 2016, the new contractor sought to carry on with land filling for a four-lane highway. Villagers, however, strongly opposed further reclamation. “We have repeatedly petitioned the authorities for the total removal of mud and a complete 1,000-km-long bridge from Galibaga to Maxem-Loliem instead of a 100-metre one,” a villager said. 
 
 The PWD conceded to some demands. The contractor levelled the 12-metre-high north-south wall to half, but extended its width to 35 metres. PWD assistant engineer  , also said the embankment had been reduced to ground level and that residents need not worry about it. “Earth dumped in the area will be removed before commissioning of the project by November-December 2018,” he assured.
 
 Villagers, nevertheless, claim that work has continued without an EIA. “Over 15,000 sqm of the river have been reclaimed and tidal flow has been affected,” Denis Fernandes, a local resident, said. They also point to an 80-metre sand bar that has formed in the river channel close to the sea.
 
 Addressing concerns over the absence of an EIA, Naik said PWD officials had visited the site and okayed the project. “Requisite measures have been taken to ensure villagers do not face any danger,” he said. 
 
 While considering a CRZ clearance for the project, then expert member of the Goa Coastal Zone Management Authority, Antonio  , in his 2015 inspection report, had urged the PWD to study how the river bank morphology, bed sedimentation patterns and flow characteristics would be impacted by the project. 
 
 
