CHENNAI: A five star hotel facing ₹24 crore tax demand from   failed to earn any reprieve in Madras high court, which on Friday said it was due to such defaultsthat thecivicbody was struggling even to pay salaries for their staff.

 Justice  , concurring with the submissions of additional advocategeneral of Tamil Nadu   and making it clear that at least ₹10 crore should be paid, said: “This is a big amount to the corporation.”
 
 The judge made the observation while hearing a plea moved by Crowne Plaza Hotel management, to quash the demand notice issued by the corporation and restrain them from taking any coercive steps.
 
 The hotel’s senior counsel Satish   said the management had never said they would not pay the tax. The assessment has been challenged in a civilcourt, hesaid, adding, “we are ready to pay whatever thecourt decides, but the manner adoptedby thecorporation in the guise of collecting the dues, by bring drum-beaters and parking garbage lorries (in front of the hotel) is not fair.”
 
 To this, Justice  , “anyway you are going to pay the tax. Now pay the amount demanded and adjust it towards future assessments based on the outcome of the civil case.”
 
 Parasaran said ₹10 crore was a big amount to arrange at such a short notice, and added that even to pay ₹5 crore they would need at least a month’s time. After he sought time till Monday to get instructions from the hotel as to the exact amount they could pay and the time required, the court adjournedthehearing toMarch26.
 
 Earlier, additional advocate-general Narmadha Sampath arguedthat theentire process initiated by the corporation was common to all such establishments, and the petitioner alone was not targeted, as alleged. “Moreover, if we go backfrom our stand then itwould become a precedent for such defaulters. This apart, the modus of calculating the tax has been formulated and passed as a government order only after consultation with all the stake holders. The meetings were even representedby association of hotels to which the petitioner is also a members. Therefore, they cannot go backfrom what they have already accepted.”
 
 In his submissions, Parasaran said the basis of the assessment was illegal, especially when guideline value had been considered, and added that the high court itself had madeitclear that guideline value could not be the basis for market value.
 
 “We are seeking to quash thedemand noticesincewehave challenged the assessment itself. The assessment madeby the authorities is arbitrary and erroneous, since the same is based on erroneous method of calculation and have arrived at an exorbitant increase,” hesaid.
 
 
