The latest episode of   starts with   talking to Pihu and promising her that he will stop the wedding. Raman leaves from there and Pihu is happy to know that the wedding will not happen anymore.

 She comes out all excited and shares the news with Ruhi and Adi who are waiting to hear from her that Raman has cancelled the wedding. 
 
  tries to run away from the Bhalla house where she is held captive. She makes a rope out of clothes, ties it to a chair and manages to come down from the window through the rope. 
 
 Param tells his goon to check if Ishita is still in the room. The man does so and informs him that she has managed to escape. Param gets tensed and says at any cost Ishita shouldn't reach the wedding venue. 
 
 Ishita luckily manages to run in an auto and Param's goon follows her. Meanwhile, Aliya and Shagun reach the Bhalla house and get to know that Ishita was held captive there but she managed to escape. They quickly rush to the wedding venue. 
 
 Raman, who is planning to cancel the wedding, overhears Simmi and Mihika’s conversation where   tells her that she doesn't have anyone in her life and she knows Raman will never leave her.
 
 
  
 Raman hears this and decides not to stop the wedding. Ishita comes and sees the mandap and gets angry at seeing Param. But before she can speak with Raman, Param's goon kidnaps her and takes her away. Pihu, Ruhi and Adi are shocked at seeing Raman arriving at the venue. 
 
 Shagun arrives and tries to stop the wedding. She tries to convince Raman that Ishita has been kidnapped and he can't marry Mihika.
 
 However, Raman doesn’t listen to her and Simmi manages to control the situation once again. Param comes and asks his goon about Ishita.
 
 He gets happy seeing Ishita unconscious and is once again in their clutches. He tells his goon that they should quickly hide her at such a place where nobody can find her. 
 
 Param and his goon put Ishita in a chest. Param says Ishita tried so hard but couldn't stop this marriage and now Mihika will very soon become Mihika Raman Bhalla. 
 
 
