PUNE: Realtors and automobile dealers in the city are optimistic about bookings and deliveries this  .

 The Maharashtrian new year is considered to be auspicious for buying homes and vehicles. City-based developers believe that the festival will revive the stagnated real estate sector.
 
 Joint managing director of Kohinoor Group, Vineet Goyal, said, “A large section of homebuyers schedule property acquisition on auspicious dates. Likewise, developers also favour the occasion to launch new projects. We are seeing an increase in the number of enquires and sales. We are handing over possession of 110 apartments on Gudi Padwa.”
 
  of Gera Developers too is going to launch two new projects.
 
 Like most developers, Shantilal Kataria of Aditya Builders is focusing on possessions this season. “We are in the process of handing over one commercial building in West Pune and 100 flats in south Pune. Apart from this, we are going to launch two new projects on Akshaya Tritiya next month,” he said.
 
 Realtors are giving out exclusive offers on the occasion. “We have a Gruhshodh scheme with super offers till Sunday for our Pune and Goa projects. We expect to sell at least 50 flats on Gudi Padwa,” said Ranjit Naiknavare, director of Naiknavare Developers.
 
 The automobile market too is set to make hundreds of deliveries on Gudi Padwa.
 
 “Car sales have gone up compared to last year. We are scheduled for 325 deliveries across our four showrooms in the city on Sunday. Last Gudi Padwa, we made about 290 deliveries,” said Sudeep Kumar, assistant sales manager at Chowgule Industries Pvt Ltd.
 
 For   of  , the response has been satisfactory. “We are making 160 deliveries from two of our Maruti showrooms. However, we have noticed a substantial demand for cars instead of two-wheelers this year,” Sehgal said.
 
 Sales at Kothari Hyundai dropped this year. General Manager Abhijeet Khandekar said, “The festival is synonymous with the hype that customers demand deliveries on the day. However, we are making about 140 deliveries on Gudi Padwa across our four locations, which is less compared to last year,” he said.
 
 Sales Manager of Laxmi TVS Aakash Ubale said their outlet was making only 70 deliveries, hinting at the slowdown in the two-wheeler market.
 
 
