NAGPUR: Despite spending thousands of crores on improving drinking water infrastructure, and execution of 24X7 water supply project,   ( ) has said it cannot eradicate the problem of contaminated water supply. This shocking statement came from ruling party leader Sandip  , who blamed 70% old network, congested residential localities, and encroachments, for this problem.

 The NMC general body meeting on Friday witnessed an outcry by corporators of all political parties over the water crisis, contamination, low pressure, leakages, revenue losses along with failures of private operator   (OCW) in operation and maintenance of water works in last six years.
 
 Replying to a TOI query at a press conference after the meeting, Joshi said there was no plan to replace 70% of the old water network to put an end to contaminated drinking water supply. “Some 30% network is being replaced under 24X7 water supply project. Water contamination cannot be prevented unless we replace the entire network. Sewage lines are situated near the water network. Residential buildings are situated on water network in congested areas, especially in Central Nagpur. Replacing the network will require huge funds. We are temporarily solving the problems wherever possible,” he said.
 
 Joshi added NMC should take action against OCW for its failure on all fronts. “NMC officials are responsible for entire water supply, but unfortunately, they are seen passing the buck to OCW. The administration should reply to all complaints raised by corporators within a week. Also, problems should be solved within 20 days. Special meeting of general body will be organized to discuss water crisis in May. Action taken report should be presented in the meeting,” he said.
 
 This was the sixth consecutive year since OCW was roped in that the general body meeting is witnessing complaints from corporators about water crisis, contamination etc at the beginning of summer.
 
 BJP corporator Satish Holey went on to say mayor Nanda Jichkar (who hails from BJP itself) has no control over the administration. “Areas in my ward get water supply from four tanks. Water is coming to the tanks in sufficient quantity. But citizens are not getting water supply for last two or more months. NMC officials are sitting pretty despite series of complaints. It seems water meant for my ward is being diverted to an influential leader’s ward,” he said, indirectly attacking his own party’s corporator and former mayor Pravin Datke.
 
 Congress corporator Praful Gudadhe said NMC was shielding OCW despite failures in supplying safe and sufficient water. “OCW was supposed to identify critical zone points to tackle water crisis and contamination, but nothing has happened. Technical audit is also awaited,” he said.
 
 Independent corporator Abha Pande and BSP corporator Jitendra Ghodeshwar slammed NMC office bearers for claiming there would no water shortage in summer just a couple of days ago.
 
 Leader of opposition Tanaji Wanve and Congress corporator Ramesh Punekar presented a bottle of contaminated water to Jichkar during the meeting.
 
 Congress corporator Julfekar Bhutto said some residents in his ward in Central Nagpur have died due to waterborne diseases in last one month.
 
 BJP corporators Pravin Bhisikar, Roopa Rai, Divya Dhurde, Jagdish Gwalbanshi, Shraddha Pathak and few more, along with some opposition corporators like Ujjwala Bankar, Purushottam Hazare, Mohammed Jamal and others, alleged that OCW did not pay heed to complaints by corporators and citizens.
 
 NMC executive engineer Sanjay Gaikwad tried to defend the administration but was slammed by corporators.
 
 
