KOLKATA: The state CID probing the cash-for-gold case has sent out three teams to Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Bihar in search of retired IPS officer Bharati Ghosh and her Man Friday constable Sujit Mandal soon after a Ghatal court on Saturday issued an arrest warrant against the accused. CID officials are confident that they have enough evidence to justify their action under the law.

 Saturday turned out to be an action-packed day for the CID investigators who raided the “Safe House” at the   Police Lines where Bharati used to stay during her stint as Jhargram SP. The team later conducted search operations at former Kharagpur OC Rajsekhar Pyne’s quarters in the Police Lines and then at his Daspur residence, while another team raided Pyne’s Manirampur residence at Barrackpore. All these raids were based on a total three FIRs against the accused, the latest by a Mamudpur resident complaining against Ghosh and her associates over the cash-for-gold fraud.
 
 A Midnapore court, on the other hand, sent the two arrested police officers — former Ghatal OC Chitta Pal and police officer Subhankar De — to police custody for six days. Judicial magistrate Saptaparna Sengupta passed the order when public pleader Subhashis Chakrabarty had asked for police custody for two weeks.
 
 The CID action has evoked strong reaction from the former IPS officer. “The state machinery is after me. Police are heaping false charges on me to tarnish my image,” Ghosh said from an undisclosed location. Mocking at the CID seizures of cash and liquor bottles from a Madurdaha apartment, two days ago, Ghosh said: “The flat owner is some Chakrabarty. Police didn’t arrest him. Instead, they made him lodge a complaint against my husband,” the retired police officer said. Ghosh also took a dig at the complainant from Swarupnagar in North 24 Parganas, Eunes Ali Mandal, calling him a “cattle smuggler”. “The high court had dismissed the case when he went to the court with the same complaint in 2016,” Ghosh said.
 
 Bharati’s reaction from an undisclosed location sounds similar to that of fugitive GJM president Bimal Gurung who has been accused of several charges under the Indian Penal Code and also those under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA). In the meantime, Gurung also reached out to the   seniors in Delhi, so did Bharati. What’s more is Gurung in his hiding got a breather from the Supreme Court.
 
