KOCHI: Water Metro project will gain momentum as Kochi Metro Rail Ltd (KMRL) will open technical bids to carry out topographical survey in areas identified for 19 terminals on Thursday.

 The survey will provide detailed information about terrain and surface features of the area identified for development of boat jetties and other allied infrastructure.
 
 
  
 
 KMRL will survey 26.39 acres and prepare plans. “We have identified the area required for buildings terminals. But, we have not come out with the specifics regarding land that need to be acquired for building jetties and other infrastructure. Before beginning land acquisition, KMRL will hold public hearings, consult panchayats and other agencies,” said KMRL’s spokesperson.
 
 The agency had identified 0.32 acres at  , 2.9 acres at Ernakulam, 0.38 acres at Eroor, 0.85 acres at  , 3.69 acres at High Court, 2.36 acres at Kakkanad, 0.3 acres at Korankotta, 0.29 acres at Kumbalam, 1.54 acres at  , 0.31 acres at   hospital, 0.34 acres at Mulavukad panchayat, 0.18 acres at Mulavukad North, 0.39 acres at Nettoor, 0.48 acres at Ponnarimangalam, 0.85 acres at South Chittoor, 0.18 acres at Thanthonni Thuruth, 5.64 acres at  , 0.39 acres at Vypeen and 5 acres at Vyttila.
 
 After evaluating the technical and financial bids, the metro agency will issue the contracts. Once survey is conducted, KMRL will prepare designs and invite tenders for construction of jetties. The agency wants to launch the project, being implemented with German financial cooperation, on April 14, 2019.
 
 “Time is of essence and surveys have to be completed within a period of eight weeks from the date of issue of work order. The work should be executed on time,” said KMRL.
 
 It has specified that the agency carrying out topographical survey will have to start mobilizing men and machinery within seven days from the date of letter of intent (LOI). The survey, including jungle clearance, will have to be completed within four weeks, draft report and all drawings should be ready within six weeks and the Metro agency will review and give feedback within seven weeks of issue of LOI. KMRL further added that the final report will be submitted within eight weeks from the issue of LOI. The report will be accepted within two weeks of its submission.
 
