Tamil Nadu lags miserably compared to other states in implementing the smart city project, according to a report from the ministry of housing and urban affairs submitted in the Rajya Sabha. The 11 cities in Tamil Nadu selected under the ambitious project have not even spent 1% of the total funds of 196 crore sanctioned by the central government in 2016. In addition to the Centre's allocation, the state government's share of another 200 crore has also been lying idle with the Tamil Nadu Urban   and Infrastructure Development Corporation (TUFIDCO). 

 Among the smart cities in the state, Coimbatore municipal corporation has spent the highest of 7.27 crore while   spent the least - a meagre 5 lakh.   has spent 3.82 crore, much less than Coimbatore. According to data submitted by urban affairs minister Hardeep Singh Puri, Madurai has spent 82 lakh; Salem, 5 lakh; Thanjavur 19 lakh and Vellore 6 lakh. 
 
 
 
 
  Procedural delay and red tape in Tamil Nadu have been cited as the primary reasons for underutilisation of funds for implementating the smart city project, say officials in the know. According to a ministry of housing and urban affairs report submitted in the Rajya Sabha, less than 1% of the sanctioned ₹196 crore was spent under the smart city mission for 11cities in the state.
 
 “In other states, the special purpose vehicles - a company formed for the implementation of smart city projects - can take independent decisions on projects and expenditure. But in Tamil Nadu, the SPVs should seek clearance for the project proposals from the state high power committee that comprises the municipal administration and water supply secretary, finance secretary, and chairman of the Tamil Nadu Urban Finance and Infrastructure Development Corporation (TUFIDCO) for projects above ₹6.5 crore. This procedure consumes a lot of time,” said a senior corporation official. A solar power plant project proposed for Coimbatore took almost a year to get clearance.
 
 Commissioner of municipal administration G Prakash said this was raised by the ministry of housing and urban affairs and he has promised to write to state governments. “The SPV is supposed to work independently without the interference of the state government. The matter is under discussion and we expect new guidelines and clarifications on this matter soon,” said Prakash.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 Though this circuitous procedure was a reason for the delay, the political instability since former chief minister J Jayalalithaa’s death that led to stagnation of government machinery had a direct bearing on file clearances. “In 2016, the first list of smart cities was announced. But a month later, the election code of conduct was in place for assembly elections after which the new government was formed. Immediately, local body elections were announced. A series of events followed - Jayalalithaa’s hospitalisation, her death, EPS becoming chief minister, rift in AIADMK. All this took a toll on smart city projects,” said an official.
 
 However, Prakash claimed, the state was making good progress. “All projects listed under the smart city require a lot of planning. A major part, such as identifying designers, consultants and locations, has been completed,” he said.
 
