PATNA: The   ( ),  , on Monday issued notices to at least 40 ongoing real estate projects for advertising without registering under the Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act (RERA), 2016. The deadline for the registration in state was April 30.

 The notification mandates that builders should get permanent approval before advertising projects, entering into an agreement with customers and accepting advance money from them.
 
 A RERA (Bihar) official told this newspaper that the notices were served on the builders and promoters following complaints by customers. “There are few builders who duped the customers and are working on more than 20 projects at a time without registering them with RERA. RERA members will decide the quantum of fine to be imposed on them,” he said.
 
 The company which got notices include Ghar Lakshmi Buildcon Pvt Ltd, Grihaarambh Developers (P) Limited, Anand Ustav Homes Pvt Ltd, Lavisa & Associates, Shital Buildtech Pvt Ltd, Prop Infra Biz Pvt Ltd, Ramadan Constructions, Nesh India Infrastructure (P) Ltd, Jescon Enterbuild Ltd, Braham Engineers and Developers Pvt Ltd, Gen EX Home Infra Pvt Ltd, Pahi Constructions Pvt Ltd, Eastern Estate Construction and Developers Pvt Ltd, Geetanjali Real Tech Pvt Ltd and Technoculture Building Center Pvt Ltd (Vastu Vihar) for their projects in different parts of Bihar.
 
 “Technoculture has more than 30 projects in different parts of Bihar, but applied only for three ongoing projects and failed to provide the necessary documents for even those projects,” he said.
 
 RERA (Bihar) member Rajiva Bhushan Sinha said people may take note that the promoters and developers of these projects are not authorized to sell any space in the project under Section 3 of RERA Act, 2016 as all promoters ought to have got registered their projects on or before April 30.
 
 “Those promoters and developers who have failed to register their respective ongoing projects have to do the same on or before May 31 with a fine of Rs1 lakh or 100 per cent penalty of the applicable registration amount,” said Sinha.
 
 
