MADURAI: An   filed by TOI reveals that seizure of liquor by Madurai rural police has more than tripled and the arrests of bootleggers have almost doubled in 2017, when compared to its previous year. However, it has not deterred anti-socials elements from selling liquor, purchased from   shops, during the closed hours and making a killing.

 While police officers blame the lenient law in dealing with bootleggers is encouraging anti-socials to repeat the offence, social activists point out that the ineffective action from the police side is propelling the illegal activity to flourish. They opine that liquor is freely available not only during closed hours, but also on the dry days announced by the government and district administration.
 
 The RTI reply reveals that 387.2 litres of liquor was seized by Madurai district rural police in 2017 (up to mid-December) and as many as 200 bootleggers were arrested. It is steep increase as only 120.93 litres seized and 112 persons arrested in 2016. While 230 litres of liquor was seized in 2014, the next year saw seizure of a whopping 413.4 litres.
 
 A higher police officer from Madurai city said that those selling liquor purchased from Tasmac after closed hours could not be remanded in prison, as they the offence is a bailable one. Most people involved in the illegal activity are differently abled and elderly persons, who are lured by the quick buck. They keep repeating the offence, since it is a bailable one, the officer said.
 
 However, M P Raman, a former union panchayat councilor from Chellampatti said that the illegal activity is flourishing and is taking place with the knowledge of the police. If station level officers decide to wipe out the illegal practice, it can be done overnight, he said.
 
  organiser of   M S   said, “There is a restriction on Tasmac shops to selling bulk quantities, to prevent such activity. However, bulk sales take place encouraging bootlegging, due to the collusion.”
 
 When contacted, additional superintendent of police (prohibition enforcement wing) of Madurai district Karthikeyan said, they have been taking sincere efforts to curb the illegal activity. Going by the data too, there was higher seizure and  , which suggests stringent action, he added. Mostly, it is the liquor bought from Tasmac shops. Only rarely we see liquor from Puducherry or Goa, where the price is cheaper, being smuggled into Madurai, he said.
 
 
