TRICHY: The consumer outreach program (COP) organized by   ( ) here on Friday witnessed a heap of complaints against the telecom service providers, particularly on the recently shut  .

 The participants included those representing consumer forums, the general public and vendors of the service providers. A complaint from a consumer about the annoying unsolicited commercial communications, the unwanted advertisements by the service providers as also the poor voice call quality received applause from the around 250 people who turned up. “The service providers should pay the consumers for wasting time listening to unnecessary advertisements,” said A Narayanan. A section of people raised the lack of clarity regarding refund of deposits to the customers by Reliance Communication which closed its business recently as well as the money paid for services to retailers. 
 
 “Thousands of consumers of R-Com have been left with no other option than losing their number used for several years. Retailers like me have been forced to forfeit the amount paid for recharge coupons to the company following the closure,” said a retailer. TRAI officials advised the retailer to take the legal route to find a solution because the body could address the issue of the consumers only. 
 
 TRAI chairman  , said, “Consumers are the most important stakeholders in the whole game. TRAI always bats for consumers. We ensure that people do not lose their money and people are able to port their number to other service providers. Even if they stop the service, they have to make contractual arrangements with other service providers who should give the unique portability code (UPC).” 
 
 He also said that the company should transfer the unspent amount of the consumers to the account of the service provider they preferred to switch to. If the consumer was not switching, dues above Rs 10 should be returned to the consumer by a cheque. 
 
 A consumer,  , put forth a demand to reduce the GST of 18 % to 5 % for telecom services. TRAI officials turned down his demand saying that taxation won’t come under their regime. However, they promised to bring the issue to the notice of the department concerned. 
 
 Reacting to the complaint on disconnection of service by operators for not linking   to mobile number, TRAI chairman made it clear that no service provider should disconnect the service as the deadline for the linking had been extended to March 31, 2018.
 
 
