Vadodara: Amit Bhatnagar-promoted Diamond Power Transformers Ltd (DPTL) has been declared bankrupt by the National Company Law Tribunal (NCTL), wqhich has also ordered liquidation of the company’s assets. 

 DPTL is a part of BSE-listed Diamond Power Infrastructure Ltd (DPIL), which owns 40% stake in the company and the rest is owned by the Bhatnagar family. DPIL is already reeling under the debt of Rs 1,695 crores and the promoters are already looking for financial institutions to invest in the company.
 
 The NCTL passed the order on March 19 after the company’s promoters failed to pay the loans or find any new buyer who would invest in the company. 
 
 Bhatnagar, however, said that he will be appealing against the order in National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT) soon. 
 
 DPTL owes a total of Rs 111 crore to Indian Overseas Bank, UCO Bank and a private financial firm. But the company was unable to pay up and approached the NCLT in June last year with an offer to restructure the debt. 
 
 “We also offered to infuse fresh funds of Rs 15 crore in the company. But in December 2017, the government of India (GOI) brought our new guidelines that prevented existing promoters from restructuring the company,” Bhatnagar told TOI. 
 
 “We had to find new buyer who could invest in our company and restructure it till February 20 but the time was too less. So, the Committee of Creditors (banks) filed for bankruptcy and liquidation proceedings in NCLT. But we are going to appeal against the order as there is one investor interested in our company,” Bhatnagar said. 
 
 He claimed that ADS Mutual Funds had shown interested in DPTL but its application was rejected as it reached NCLT a day after the deadline. 
 
 “We will seek extension of another six months and insist on considering the bid of ADS that will infuse funds in DPTL and restructure it. If our appeal is not accepted then we will approach the high court and even the Supreme Court. Also, we will be making an offer of settlement to some lenders,” Bhatnagar added. DPTL registered a turnover of Rs 350 crore in 2015-16 but the numbers dropped to Rs 150 crores in 2016-17. 
 
 Bhatnagar blamed the delayed payments from state electricity boards, excessive competition and cheap Chinese imports as the reason behind the company’s failure to sustain. 
 
 
