NEW DELHI: A team from Delhi Police’s Crime Branch visited the   on Thursday where a girl had been raped, allegedly by a student there, and from where police had rescued her. 

 The team questioned some of the students and the local residents to establish the sequence of events narrated by the survivor. The teenager has been seen accompanying the girl in CCTV footage recovered from Hindon Vihar colony in Ghaziabad. The clip, accessed by TOI, shows the survivor in a T-shirt and shorts and the teenager in a shirt and trousers. The girl slows down a bit and then walks behind the teenager until they both go out of the frame.
 
 Some families that live near the   also claimed that they had seen the duo going towards the madrassa. Police suspect that some friends of the boy at the madrassa may have been aware of the plot and even helped him in hiding the girl. 
 
 But the maulvi in whose room the girl was raped and confined has claimed innocence. Police also said that he hasn’t been booked for  , but his version that he wasn’t at the madrassa when the crime had occurred and was unaware of the girl being illegally confined in his room is being investigated. His as well as the accused student’s call logs are also being analysed, police said. 
 
 The family members of the survivor, meanwhile, held another candlelight vigil at India Gate on Thursday evening, demanding justice for the girl. The family, accompanied by a team from Group of Intellectuals and Academicians met police commissioner Amulya Patnaik on Thursday afternoon.
 
 After the meeting, the team said that they have asked the commissioner to fast-track the investigation so that a chargesheet can be filed at the earliest. The group also demanded that the matter be heard in a fast-track court for faster judgment and punishment. 
 
 The girl’s maternal uncle also alleged that the investigation was being botched up intentionally and claimed that his niece’s statement, recorded under Section 164 of CrPC, is not correct.
 
 
