JAIPUR: The frequent fire incidents has exposed that marriage gardens operational in the city are ill-equipped to deal with situation. 

 Barely two months after the   at JLN Marg was gutted in fire, another prominent marriage garden, the   garden, was turned into ashes. Ironically, the   was awarded the best marriage garden in the city. However, even the best marriage garden did not obtain No Objection Certificate ( ) from the fire department.
 
 A senior fire official at   said, “The marriage garden didn’t have the NOC.”
 
 In the city, there are 538 registered marriage gardens but there is no completely-complied record of marriage gardens which are operational without any licence.
 
 “In the city, not even 10% marriage gardens have obtained NOC. Nearly, 75 marriage gardens have applied for fire NOC. However, JMC is not issuing NOCs at the moment in absence of marriage garden by-laws.” 
 
 The government had issued strict directions to its officials to seize the marriage gardens functioning illegally without valid licence and also those which are flouting marriage garden by-laws. However, no action was taken till date. 
 
 On May 2017, local self-government (LSG) department issued notification mentioning that it is necessary to procure licences from the government but despite of procuring the licence, the marriage gardens are not following its norms and rules. Also, a lot many are operational without any licence, which is a matter of grave concern. “The marriage lawns must have NoC from the fire department, for the safety of visitors taking part in marriage ceremony. Both owners and JMC are ignorant over the issue and gardens are operational illegally.”
 
 The director, LSG also directed public works department's superintending engineers to inspect the marriage gardens and find out if the building is safe and it has no risk of deaths and loss of belongings. The engineers were directed to issue the certificate. However, no such practice was adopted by the department. 
 
 In the notification it was mentioned to check the capacity of marriage garden. The team was also directed to inspect these gardens time-to-time and if the visitors have gathered beyond the capacity of the marriage gardens. If the marriage garden holds celebration with visitors beyond its capacity, it should be immediately seized.
 
 “The directions remains on papers as no inspection has been done till date. All the big gardens continue to flout norms and operate without NOC,” said a JMC official.
 
 
