PUNE: The rising price of petrol is not only hitting fuel consumers hard, but has also adversely affected its sale in the district. 

 Data from three oil marketing companies show that sale of petrol in the financial year 2017-18 in the district grew at a slowest pace in the last four years. Petrol sale grew by 2.8% in 2017-18 as compared to 3.4% in 2016-17. In 2015-16, petrol sales registered a robust growth of 15%.
 
 
  
 
 Experts said the high   was not only making first-time vehicle buyers to opt for vehicles running on low-cost fuel, but also regular petrol consumers were ending up with lower quantity of fuel as they habitually spend the same amount of money every time they refill.
 
 A source from Federation of All Maharashtra Petrol Dealers’ Association said not only have many autorickshaws converted to CNG, but new vehicles, especially four-wheelers, are now coming with in-built CNG kits. “The growth of such vehicles is directly proportional to the decline in the growth rate of petrol consumption in the district. Also, regular petrol consumers are habitual to refilling vehicle tanks with a fixed amount. . Though petrol price is rising by the day, consumers prefer to stick to certain amount of money while refilling, which results in them getting lesser quantity of petrol,” the source added.
 
 “New buyers, in the meantime, are preferring vehicles which run on diesel or CNG. Also, the tax component on petrol has gone up significantly in the last three to four years even as crude prices have been low,” he said.
 
 An oil marketing company official said that apart from conversion to CNG, there have been times when petrol pump dealers do not purchase petrol due to fluctuation in the rates. Tanks at petrol pumps can maintain stock which lasts up to 20-25 days. “The share of private companies in city’s petrol consumption may also have gone up,” the official added. He, however, agreed that growth in petrol consumption in general had been slowed down in the past year or so.
 
 Market sources said CNG is definitely more pocket-friendly. While one has to now shell out Rs 82.33 for a litre of petrol, CNG costs around Rs 49 per kg. They said maintenance of CNG vehicles was easier and they give better mileage. “Due to the rising petrol prices, more and more factory fitted CNG car models are being introduced in the market lately,” an industry source said.
 
 A petrol pump dealer in   said that in the last six to seven months, petrol prices have gone up significantly in the city. “About six months ago, a litre of petrol was costing Rs 80 to 81 approximately; it then dipped by Rs 5 to Rs 76 approximately. Now, it has reached Rs 82.33 per litre. When prices increase, consumers tend to save on cash by spending less on fuel,” he said.
 
 
