AHMEDABAD: Challenges against at least 10% of seats won in the   are pending currently in the high court. Dissatisfaction seems high over   in many seats, and lack of faith in   has led   like Congress leader Arjun Modhvadia, Siddharth Patel and others to knock the doors of the judiciary.

 The constituencies where the decisions of election authorities have been challenged include Jamalpur-Khadia, Patan, Gandhinagar North, Botad, Dholka, Himmatnagar, Varachha Road, Limbayat, Gariyadhar, Godhra, Prantij, Santrampur, Mandvi in Kutch, Porbandar, Vagra, Matar, Dabhoi, Dwarka, Kamrej and Danilimda.
 
 One of the lawyers involved in these litigations said that a high number of election petitions is due to low victory margins on these seats. In 31 seats, the victory margin was found to be lower than the number of votes polled in favour of NOTA.
 
 Victories of some of BJP ministers stand challenged. Rival candidates of ministers Bhupendrasinh Chudasama in Dholka and Saurabh Dalal in Botad have filed election petitions. Congress candidate from Dholka, Ashwin Rathod, has challenged Chudasama’s thin victory margin of 327 votes. He has blamed election officials for ensuring Chudasama’s victory by falsely cancelling ballot paper votes cast by government employees.
 
 Dalal’s rival candidate, Dhirajlal Kalathiya from Botad, has demanded a recounting by counting VVPAT slips. He has alleged that the election commission did not follow the procedure properly and there were complaints raised by him during the time of voting and counting, but election officials did not pay attention.
 
 There are some BJP candidates, too, who have challenged victories of their rival Congress candidates.
 
 An Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) candidate, Jayantibhai Mevada, has questioned the elections held at Ahmedabad’s Danilimda constituency, where Congress’s Shailesh Parmar got elected with a considerable margin.
 
  Mevada was disqualified by the election officials from contesting the polls after one of his 10 proposers withdrew his support. Mevada has urged the court to hold the election as void and demanded re-election for this constituency.
 
 On the day of polling, senior Congress leader Arjun Modhwadia was the first to allege irregularity in the functioning of the Electronic Voting Machines (EVMs) when he claimed that EVMs were hijacked using Bluetooth by mobile phones. A couple of Congress candidates had even approached the HC on this aspect, but withdrew their petitions because the Supreme Court rejected a petition filed by the Congress party over EVM functioning and counting of VVPAT slips.
 
 
