KOLKATA: A three-storey house, a slum and a dharmashala: the squall spared none. Barun Ganguly,a resident of Pratapaditya Road at Tollygunge, Omraj Shaw from Raja Santosh Roy Road in   and Kanailal Parma from Kalakar Street at Burrabazar have been dealt a blow as their homes were partially or completely destroyed by the storm that left a trail of destruction behind it.

 As the high-speed winds swept through the city, a banyan tree of more than 100 years got loosened from the ground and leant on the shanties at a Chetla slum. On Thursday morning, the gigantic tree got completely uprooted and came crashing down on the hutments, leaving Shaw and 25-odd families homeless. “The local councillor has promised us to rebuild our homes. But all the belongings inside have been destroyed. How am Igoing to get them back?” Shaw said. But it was a miracle that no one in the slum was injured as the tree fell. “We used to offer puja at the tree as it was our Banbibi Sthan,” said Sheikh Rajesh, a resident. A local club, Rabindranath Sangha, has offered shelter and food to the homeless families, who have nowhere to go to.
 
  and Kolkata Police are overseeing the removal of the tree, which are being cut away in pieces. But given the enormous size of the tree, the clearing job has turned out to be difficult and the workers felt it might not be completed before a week.
 
 At Prataditya Road, a banyan tree got uprooted and fell on Barun Ganguly’s house across the road, bringing down a part of balcony. Ganguly, who had recently undergone a bypass surgery, was saved by a whisker as he had just stepped inside from the verandah when the tree collapsed. Already unwell, Ganguly is worried sick about the damage caused to the century-old structure that was built by his grandfather, Kunja Mohan Ganguly. “I have read in the newspaper that the mayor has announced some compensation. Is KMC going to compensate for the damage caused by the uprooted tree?” his wife   said.
 
 After the crash, the earthing of the house malfunctioned and current ran through the entire building. Multiple devices, including the water pump, stopped working and Ganguly finally changed it on Thursday.
 
 At Kalakar Street in the heart of a bustling Burrabazar, a wall on the first floor of Mairdhi Kshatriya Sabha, a dharmashala, fell on the alley next to it, killing a person. The deceased has been identified as Ajay Shukla, an employee at asaree wholesaler unit on the second floor of the next building. “It will not cost us much to rebuild the wall. But the structure has weakened. Most importantly, the collapsed wall has killed a person and injured one, while damaging three bikes,” said Kanailal Parma, the janitor at the dharmashala.
 
 
