PANAJI: A special anthology of   reports has been prepared by the Goa State Central Library for research related to the unique drama form. The 544-page book which has nearly 250 articles compiled, also carries some of the oldest written stories from a Bombay-based newspaper.

  
  
 
 “This information will be of great value to researchers and tiatr lovers,” said curator of the library, Carlos Fernandes.
 
 The anthology has been compiled by Prashant Phadte and Vrinda Gadekar besides Fernandes.
 
 Considered to be a mirror of Goan culture, tiatr a corruption of the Italian word teatro, is a drama consisting of 6 or 7 acts called  . The theme of the tiatr revolves around social, religious and political themes, and the plot of the play is interspersed by songs called cantaram.
 
 “Many Goa University researchers used to ask for tiatr related information, but the data is scattered. Librarians would end up spending a lot of time searching for the right piece of literature. Thus, we compiled all the matter to have it all in one book,” Fernandes said.
 
 Volume one of the book is out since June 2017; this has information in both Portuguese and English languages. Another 225 articles will be published in Volume two of the omnibus. This will also include articles in the Konkani language scripts, Devanagari and Romi. Two more volumes are likely to be out in the near future, thus making a total of four volumes.
 
 In order to compile the data, articles on the subject published in the past are being scanned from newspapers in the library archives. The oldest article dates back to the late 1800s from a then Bombay-based newspaper.
 
 Sharing his thoughts about the compilation, renowned tiatrist Tomazinho Cardozo who has written the foreword of the book said, “Documentation in any language is the most important factor, but unfortunately very less of it has been done for tiatr in Goa. Prior to 2009, before the Tiatr Academy of Goa was formed, there was no preservation of even of the existing literature of tiatr. This book will help keep the information for posterity.”
 
 
