BENGALURU: After   reported a suspected Nipah case, government hospitals across the state have been instructed to set up isolated wards with separate staff as a precautionary measure.

 
 In Bengaluru, Rajiv Gandhi Institute for Chest Diseases (RGICD), KC General Hospital and   have set up isolated wards.
  
  
 RGICD director Dr C Nagaraja said the hospital will set up a special screening centre with four-five beds, separate doctors, nurses, physicians and a social worker. Some of the precautions include use of clean gloves and gowns as well as regular washing of hands with disinfectant.
 
 “As this is a condition with mainly neurological complications such as patients developing fever, headache, unconsciousness and eventually going into a coma, they will require the assistance of a neurologist,” he added.
 
 It was RGICD that took care of the patient load during the influenza A (H1N1) outbreak in 2009 as it specialises in treating respiratory disorders. But this time, the hospital says Nipah virus infection is a neurological issue and hence it lacks expertise.
 
 “As there is no neurological department in the hospital, only initial treatment can be given to patients and their fluid samples will be sent for testing. They will have to be referred to hospitals like Nimhans and  , which have neurological departments,” he said.
 
 Dr R Bhanumurthy MS, medical superintendent, KC General Hospital, Malleswaram, said a three-bedded isolated ward has been set up in the hospital.
 
 At Victoria Hospital too, a ward with four beds has been set up. “We are also equipped with isolated ICU facility for patients,” said doctors
 
 No proven herbal medicine
 
 While there are messages doing rounds in social media pertaining to certain herbal medicine prepared with parijatha leaves, the state health department on Tuesday said no such medicine has been proven to cure Nipah.
 
 “Such messages were spreading even during H1N1 and Ebola outbreaks. There is no medicine in allopathy for Nipah viral infection and no alternate medicine has been tested against the virus. For any clarity on the infection, public can call toll free number 104 Arogya Vani helpline and do not go by forwarded messages,” said health department officials.
 
 
 
 On Wednesday, Dr B G Prakash Kumar said there was only one suspected case from Mangaluru.
 
 “A 20-year-old woman was suspected to be infected by Nipah virus and her body fluids were sent for tests to Manipal Centre for Virus Research (MCVR). She is recovering. Another person, a 75-year-old man, had a history of pneumonia and is not a Nipah viral infection suspect,” he said. The test result of the woman’s fluid sample has to be confirmed by   (NIV), Pune, officials added.
 
 (With inputs from Sanjana Pai, Dhanyatha MJ, Aditi Pareek)
 
 
