PHAGWARA: Nineteen-year-old Dalit youth   aka Bobby, who was shot on the eve of   during a clash between right-wing Hindu groups and Dalit activists, died of his injuries on Sunday morning at   in Ludhiana after battling for his life for over a fortnight. 

 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 The police put Phagwara in lock down to prevent any recurrence of violence in the town. Punjab has the highest population of Dalits in the county in percentage terms which is concentrated in the Doaba region, including Phagwara.
 
 Bobby was cremated here amid very tight security arrangements. Punjab police,   and   personnel were deployed in very heavy numbers in the town and all roads leading to the town, including the   were closed in the morning and traffic was diverted through alternate routes. 
 
 Vehicles could only go out of the town but no one could enter and this restriction continued for a few hours. The NH and other main roads were opened for vehicular traffic coming from outside in the afternoon and by evening the town appeared normal.
 
 After Bobby's death, the Phagwara police added murder charge under Section 302 of IPC in FIR no. 77 which pertained to the violent clash between the two sides.
 
 
 
 
 The police have already arrested four leaders of right-wing groups, including mandal president of Bhartiya Janta Yuva Morcha (BJYM). Names of at least five RSS-BJP and BJYM leaders figure in the FIR.
 
 SSP Sandeep Sharma said the bullet taken out from Bobby’s head during post-mortem was being sent for forensic examination to pin point the weapon it was fired from.
 
 The clash had taken place after Ambedkar Sena (Mool Niwasi) installed a hoarding at the Gol Chowk to name it as Sanvidhaan Chowk, late on April 13 evening, the eve Ambedkar Jayanti, but right-wing Hindu groups objected to the move. As both sides had gathered there, a clash took place at midnight in which gunshots were also fired, injuring two Dalit activists.
 
 Other injured youth, Kulwinder Kumar, who had received a bullet near pelvic region, has already returned home at nearby Bhullarai village after successful treatment. The town has been on the edge since the clash.
 
 As Bobby’s condition had started deteriorating late on Saturday evening, the administration started beefing up the security, which was already quite high in the town ever since the clash had taken place. In the morning, mobile Internet and SMS services were also shut down in districts of Kapurthala, Jalandhar, Hoshiarpur, Nawanshahar and Ludhiana.
 
 Vehicular movement was also restricted within Phagwara and police officials were not allowing anybody to go towards Banga Road, the site of cremation. The police had almost completely cordoned off the area of Bobby’s residence and the passage to the cremation ground.
 
 Bobby’s body reached his home in the morning and in around halfan-hour, his last journey started towards the cremation ground. The police had coordinated with the family and community leaders to ensure that Bobby’s cremation was held without any delay.
 
 As the mourning procession reached Banga Road from Valmiki Mohalla, some youths tried to push the barricades to take the body towards the interior of the town, but heavy presence of police stonewalled the attempt and some community members also prevailed upon them to ensure peace. Security personnel, including Punjab police women, outnumbered the people.
 
 Young members of the Dalit community raised slogans in Bobby’s memory and some even shouted, “Sanvidhaan Chowk Zindabaad” at the cremation ground. Slogans against local BJP MLA Som Parkash and BJP mayor Arun Khosla were also raised.
 
 Jalandhar Zone IG Naunihal Singh and Jalandhar division commissioner Raj Kamal Chaudhary were directly supervising the security arrangements in the town. Counter-intelligence AIG H P S Khakh, who was specially attached with the IG Naunihal Singh for assisting in handling the situation, managed the situation when some youths raked up the issue that the Gol Chowk, renaming of which as Sanvidhaan Chowk by Ambedkar Sena became a trigger for the April 13 clash, be named after Bobby before cremation.
 
 The cremation was largely attended by Valmiki community members apart from a few political leaders, including Punjab Congress SC cell in-charge and Chabbelwal MLA Dr Raj Kumar, former minister Joginder Singh Mann, Punjab BSP president Rashpal Raju, SAD MLA Pawan Teenu, Lok Insaaf Party leader Jarnail Nangal, former MLA Mohan Lal, who has recently joined BSP, and Ambedkar Sena (Mool Niwasi) president Harbhajan Suman, who had led the dalit activists in installing the hoarding of Sanvidhaan Chowk at the Gol Chowk on National Highway.
 
 Expressing grief at Bobby’s death, General Samaj Manch issued a statement on Sunday and once again raised demand for arrest of Nangal and Suman, alleging that they had started the trouble for their political interests and that had led to loss of a young life.
 
