MUMBAI: The   asked the state government on Friday to increase awareness on use of   and measures for food   while observing the need for a regulatory mechanism for animal feed.

 A bench of Justices Naresh Patil and Anuja Prabhudesai was hearing a PIL that highlighted excessive use of pesticides by farmers and 20 farmer deaths in Vidharbha. The PIL, argued by advocate Shehzad Naqvi, sought orders for a policy to be framed to prevent growth or ripening of fruits with chemicals and to prohibit   farmers from using growth harmones or  . 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 Food and Drug Administration (FDA) joint commissioner and other senior officers appeared in court on Friday. 
 
 The high court said the state must spread more awareness among farmers by sending pamphlets and other material to gram panchayats on proper use of pesticides and growth of poultry. 
 
 After dismissing a communication presented by the state as ‘typically bureaucratic’’, the court sought more information on how inspections can be carried out to find if excessive probiotic feed was being used to fatten chicken and whether antibiotics were being used in violation of rules. 
 
 The bench said, “Give public interest awareness ads against   adulteration in theatres. We believe there must be some regulatory law... Abroad there is much research done on growth of food. Put advertisements in theatres on food safety as is done for anti-smoking and other public places.”
 
 An animal husbandry department officer present in court said, “No antibiotics were given to chicken, except when they were sick.’’ But he pointed out that “permitted probiotics were given in feeds”. The state’s contention is that probiotics can be given to poultry; antibiotics are given for three days when sick. 
 
 An affidavit by joint commissioner (food), submitted by government lawyer Deepali Patankar, stated there was only one NABL-accredited FDA laboratory in the state but action is taken for food safety. 
 
 The bench told the  , “Your concern should be what people are eating in the city of Mumbai. Are you vigilant?’’ 
 
 The bench further said: “What prevents you from checking what food is being given as feed?... We want to know if supervision is falling short.”
 
 The court also wants the FDA to consider proposals to check on labelling of unpacked fruits and vegetables sold in malls. The court said FDA should consider increasing the number of mobile vans to check milk adulteration too, and study proposals to check if meat sold in malls is safe for human consumption. 
 
 
