GURUGRAM: Mild tremors were felt across NCR on Wednesday afternoon following a powerful   that struck northern Afghanistan, prompting panic-stricken residents and employees to run out of houses and offices. Some corporate offices in Udyog Vihar and Cyber City evacuated their employees as a precautionary step.

 The 6.1 magnitude earthquake hit at 12.37pm (IST) near Afghanistan’s northern border with Tajikistan in the   mountains at a depth of 191 kilometres, Met officials said. Apart from Gurugram, the tremors were also felt in Delhi, Noida, Ghaziabad and other parts of northern India. “The intensity of seismic waves decreased by the time they reached NCR. Only mild tremors were felt here. In Jammu & Kashmir, people felt the quake strongly,” an IMD official said. 
 
 “I felt it… our desks were shaking. So I came down quickly. Others who felt it came down too. But my family members in Delhi barely realised it. They came to know about the earthquake only when I told them about the tremors,” said Subhash Roy, who works in Cyber City. Deepshikha, who also has her office in Cyber City, said she was near a café when she felt the quake. “I simply ran towards the main road. A few people realised it while many others appeared confused, not knowing what was happening,” she added.
 
 In Udyog Vihar, which is just opposite Cyber City across NH-8, several corporate houses pressed the alarm bell and requested their employees to come out of the buildings. “I was in the office and felt the things shaking. Within a few moments, our guards requested us to move out,” said an employee at Global Desi. Several corporate houses opposite Trident and Oberoi hotels asked employees to go out on the streets as a safety measure. In residential areas, people had mixed reactions. “We did not feel anything here. In fact, I did not know a quake had happened until I saw the news on TV,” said Ashwani Sharma, RWA president of Sector 10. “Several people here ran out of their houses, reaching for open spaces,” said  , RWA president, Sector 5.
 
 In DLF 3, residents said they were scared mainly because of illegal buildings that were built without following the safety standard. “Gurugram falls in the seismic zone IV and these unauthorised highrises pose a threat,” said RP Bajaj, president RWA, DLF 3.
 
 
