HYDERABAD: There will be 37.5 per cent drop in number of jobs due to potential automation in   this year, stated a report released by an employment assessment company recently.

 
 The report titled ‘Future of Jobs: 2018’ published by Aspiring Minds, reveals that Telangana is among the top 10 states which will be affected due to automation in 2018.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 “Delhi NCR, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Telangana and   have over 40 per cent of the country’s jobs and are severely hit by mechanization of work.   remains less affected by automation – with over 18 per cent jobs of the country in the state, the region loses a little over 18 per cent jobs due to mechanization,” states the report.
 
 While Delhi NCR will lose 45.1 per cent jobs, highest in the country,   will be second most affected state with 42.2 per cent drop in number of jobs.
 
 Among the five fields which will be affected due to automation are data analysis, marketing, human resource management and training and development, project management in various domains (engineering and IT) and general management. “Software and information technology comes out to be the domain highest at risk, with demand as high as 31 per cent in the function, the potential of automation of these jobs is 42 per cent. Customer service lies at the edge with high automation potential of 64 per cent and a 9 per cent demand, along with sales, at 39 per cent automate-ability and 12 per cent demand,” states the report.
 
 The report claims that the alarming figures call for a change in curriculum and pedagogy in schools and colleges that is dynamic and adapts to changes in the economy, especially with the new skills in demand. It further goes on to state that emphasis on training and development for professionals is equally imperative.
 
 Considering the gap in jobs and skill development, the Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University, Hyderabad is all set to provide training to engineering students/ graduates to improve their communication skills for better employment opportunities this year.
 
