CHENNAI: Being a traditional sport, for a long time,   has been conducted in many remote villages of  . However, it garnered worldwide attention only after the 2017 protest that lit up the night sands on Marina. What led to the public anger which snowballed into the mass protest?. The jallikattu   had their origins in the more recent past, according to N Sathiya Moorthy, author of “Jallikattu: New Symbol of   Angst.”

 “It began with a notification from the Centre, followed by the orders of the Supreme Court of India, both banning traditional bullfights, or bull-taming to be precise, held either on the Pongal day or the day after. The appellate court banned it, agreeing to the animal welfare board’s contention that the sport treats animals brutally. It was the ban that made this sport popular,” he said.
 
 In mid-January 2017, Tamil Nadu witnessed mass protests throughout the state, demanding the restoration of freedom to conduct jallikattu, banned for several years by the Supreme Court of India. It was one of the biggest protests witnessed in the state, after the anti-Hindi agitation of the 1960s. “The January 2017 protests were to press the nebulous demand for lifting the ban on jallikattu, a martial sport mostly localised to south-central Tamil Nadu and more connectible with the martial community of Mukkulathores, with its three identifiable sub-sects in particular, he said. 
 
 Sathiya Moorthy’s book ‘Jallikattu’ is not simply a day-to-day record of the protest that took place on Marina in 2017. He analyses the sport from various angles, and brings out its cultural significance associated with the Tamils. He sounds logical when he explains how jallikattu is different from the Spanish bullfight. “The   is all about well-armed men, at times on protective horse-back, taunting and spearing the fighter-bull to a slow and painful death through an instalment of deep cuts and wounds. But jallikattu is different,” he said. “The sport of jallikattu is one of the valour, and not blood-letting, of the animal in particular. The bull-fighters do not generally train themselves for the task, though overall they might have been into martial arts. It is not even bull-fight in the Spanish sense of the term, but bull taming, at best.”
 
 Animal rights activists may not agree, but Moorthy’s book brings in a number of strong historic details to substantiate his argument. Published by Vitasta Publishing Pvt Ltd, “Jallikattu: New Symbol of Tamil Angst” discusses messages from Marina, taming or ‘fighting’ the bull, whose is jallikattu?, the ban, and the protests in detail through various chapters. The book was released by T Rajasekaran, working president of the Maanila jallikattu Assocation at Odyssey book stall in Adyar on Saturday.
 
 
