NEW DELHI: Delhi Police arrested Okhla MLA   on Wednesday in connection with the alleged assault of Delhi chief secretary Anshu Prakash. The FIR that Prakash filed said Khan, who was seated next to him at a meeting at Monday night's meeting in the chief minister’s residence, had rained blows on him. Another MLA,  , was arrested on Tuesday. The two legislators were sent to Tihar Jail after being produced in court on Wednesday evening.

 Khan, who had evaded arrest on Tuesday evening, was on his way to surrender at Jamia Nagar police station with his supporters when he was intercepted by south-east district police around 11.15am on Wednesday. He was handed over to north Delhi cops who are probing the case.
 
 In this FIR, Prakash had said Khan and another MLA “without any provocation from my side, started hitting and assaulting me. They hit several blows with fists on my head and temple. My spectacles fell on the ground.” The unnamed person was later identified as Jarwal.
 
  
  
 Police also picked up V K Jain, advisor to the Delhi CM, from his Maharani Bagh residence around 7am. He was let off after being questioned for four hours. Police said that they detained Jain as he was allegedly the person who had contacted the chief secretary multiple times regarding the meeting.
 
 In the FIR, Prakash had claimed that on being summoned by Jain to the CM’s house at midnight on Monday, he had suggested having the meeting the following morning. “However, Jain remained firm and called at 9pm and again at around 10pm that the meeting had been scheduled by CM at 12 midnight. Jain again called me at around 11.20pm to confirm that I had left for CM’s residence for the meeting,” Prakash wrote in his complaint.
 
 The cops recorded Jain’s statement and are likely to summon him again. They claimed that during questioning, both Khan and Jarwal hadn’t cooperated and had been evasive in their answers. The two had also denied hitting Prakash while admitting to arguing heatedly with the bureaucrat.
 
 Cops said the 11 AAP MLAs present during the attack were Ajay Dutt, Jarwal, Rajesh Rishi, Rajesh Gupta, Rituraj Govind, Madan Lal, Khan, Praveen Kumar, Dinesh Mohania, Sanjeev Jha, and  
 
 A special team has been formed to investigate the case, which will be monitored by police commissioner  . The team is gathering evidence through CCTV footage and mobile locations of the accused MLAs to ascertain their whereabouts on Monday night. More arrests are likely. 
 
 The chief secretary’s driver and security officer are likely to be made witnesses in the case, sources said, with the top bureaucrat’s medical legal report as the strongest piece of evidence with the police till now. Police, however, denied reports that CM   and deputy CM Manish Sisodia had been sent notices to join the investigation.
 
 
