NASHIK: Travelling by road from   to different parts of the state is set to become costlier as travel agents and bus operators have decided to increase the fare. 

 While the rise in rental of cars would be in the range of 0.50 paise to Re1/km, some of the   have increased the fares by 10%.
 
 The travel agents and bus owners said the rising fuel prices have made it difficult for them to manage things.  , president of   (TAAN), said although the fuel prices have been increasing for over a year, they did not pass it on the customers.
 
 "But now we have no option but to hike the car rental charges or else our business would become unviable," he added.
 
 According to Bhalerao, the 105 travel agents of Nashik under TAAN will have a meeting on May 26 on the issue where a formal decision would be taken to increase the rentals.
 
 This hike in car rentals would mean that if a person wants to travel to Mumbai Airport he has to shell out an additional amount of Rs 200 to Rs 400 depending on the kind of the vehicle being hired. Currently, the tariff for one side travel to Mumbai airport ranges between Rs 2,500 to Rs 2,700.
 
 "We have also decided to hike the rental for buses for domestic tourists reaching Nashik for sightseeing. The hike would depend on the days and venues that the group wants to visit," Bhalerao said.
 
 The Nashik-based president of the All India Tourism and Transport Association president Dilip Singh Beniwal said many private bus operators have hiked the fares to different destinations of the state from Nashik by 10% due to rise in fuel prices.
 
 "The bus operators are bleeding financially due to the rise in fuel prices. We have to pay to our staff and spend a substantial amount on maintenance of the vehicles. But despite the hike our fares are still less than what Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC) is charging from the passengers," he added.
 
 Echoing similar views founder president of Nashik Transporters' Association Anju Singhal said the transporters have also hiked the rates for ferrying goods and vegetables.
 
 "For transporting goods to Bhiwandi we have started charging Rs 8,000 instead of Rs 7,000 and for Mumbai we now charge Rs 10,000 instead of Rs 9,000," he said.
 
 According to him, if customers are unwilling to pay the increased amount the transporters are refusing orders which has affected the business. "But we are unable to serve our customers at the old rates since it is not viable for the transporters," Singhal added. 
 
 
