TRICHY: The sale of mangoes, which made a delayed arrival at the markets in the city, has seen only a lukewarm response from the general public.

 Usually, good number of mangoes is available from the beginning of April itself, but this year, it got delayed by more than a month. However, the yield of the ‘king of fruits’ has dipped by almost 50% compared to last year in   district.
 
 This reduced yield has caused a significant increase in the wholesale and   of the mangoes, which has adversely affected the sales.
 
 Mango sellers at   said that the retail prices of almost all the varieties, on an average, have gone up by at least Rs 50 per kg compared to last year. “Since the yield this year has been too less, we had no other option but to increase the price by a considerable extent. But even that has backfired as the sales has been extremely poor this year,” said Sathish, proprietor of Original Sriman Thathachariyar Mango Shop and Nursery Garden.
 
 Drought was a major body-blow for the farmers and lack of rains last year resulted in a considerable delay in the flowering of mangoes, fruit set, fruit development maturation and harvest – in fact, the flowering season, which usually starts by November/ December, started only by mid-January this year.
 
 Abdullah, who owns a mango plantation at Manapparai, said that he received only 25% of the yield compared to last year. “I have incurred heavy losses due to it,” he added.
 
 So far, only mango varieties like imampasanth, banganapalle, senthoora, kalapadi and malkova are available at decent numbers and the arrival of kalamani and neelam are expected by the end of this month.
 
 K T  , head of Ilangu Mangai Traders Association in Trichy said that though the difference in wholesale prices has not been affected much, it is the retail price which has become inconsistent. 
 
 Apart from the price, the dip in quality of mangoes has also caused a hit in the sales. Right from the shape to colour and taste, the quality of mangoes has become very inferior said K Satya, who works at a fruit shop at  . “Also, many people are now avoiding purchasing mangoes at shops fearing artificial ripening of the fruits,” he said.
 
 
