Ludhiana: A number of   exercised their franchise in the MC elections on Saturday. Filled with hoped and enthusiasm, the youngsters voted for better public infrastructure in city.

 Many first-time voters said they voted for positive change in the city.
 
 “Not only is the voting a right for citizens, but it is a duty towards the nation as well. Since my childhood, I looked forward to the day when I will vote. Today my dream became a reality. I was excited to vote in the MC elections as I wanted to elect a representative who will bring about positive change in our area and city,” said 19-year- old Niyati Aggarwal, a BBA student who lives in Mahavir Nagar.
 
 “I want my elected representative to set up more parks in the area, which is not best way to tackle high pollution levels, but is also beneficial for residents’ health,” she added.
 
 “When we vote, we do our bit to make our city grow and eventually contribute in the country’s development. I voted for the same purpose. In our area, stray dog menace is a big issue and I want a solution to this problem. Besides, there are traffic issues in the city which can be jointly tackled by the municipal corporation and traffic police,” said 22-year-old Sanchi Arora, who is pursuing masters in pharmacy.
 
 Many first time voters said though there has been development in their areas, a lot more needs to be done.
 
 “We have good roads in our area and garbage is properly disposed of, but water-logging is a major problem during rainy season, which increases the risk of mosquito and water-borne diseases. As the MC deals with civic issues, I voted keeping in mind that this issue will be tackled,” said 18-year-old Aneesh Sood, a mechanical engineering student of college road who voted at Government College for Women.
 
 Sumiti Aggarwal, 21, of Suneel Park said, “Ludhiana has negligible forest cover and the city is known for having very high pollution levels. So there is a need to increase forest cover in the city. I voted as I want our representative to work for clean, green and pollution-free Ludhiana.”
 
 International powerlifter Jaspreet Kaur of BRS Nagar said, “Though I have voted before, but this is for the first time I am voting in MC elections. Having won silver and bronze medals in South Africa last year, I want MC to come up with good sports infrastructure in each ward of the city so that more players get an opportunity to make it big in their disciplines.”
 
 
