Aiming at a financial turnaround for the state, finance minister 
  presented the second budget of the   government in Punjab on Saturday. Serving as second time as the finance minister — first was during SADBJP stint from 2007 to 2010 — he spoke to 
  about the provisions in the budget that havedrawn sharp reactions from the opposition.

 
  
  
 
 
 
 The target is very realistic and there are reasons for it. The state’s revenues are increasing every year. We are actually getting revenue increase of about 14% from goods and sales tax (GST). This time we will get fixed amount of Rs 21,440 crore for implementing GST. Also, if you look at the budget figures, the revenue receipts have gone up by 30%. And if we take care of our expenses and if they increase at 5% to 6%, I think we should be on target.
 
 
 
 
 I don’t think it would be much of a burden on taxpayers. It is Rs 200 per month, which comes to Rs 7 per day. A cup of tea costs this much. If you are taxpayer, you would not mind giving up that much for the economically weak. This would open Punjab for funding from the   and the   and these loans come very cheap. They had put a condition that the state first goes in for financial mobilization. At the moment whatever loans we are taking, the rate is very high. We are looking at the larger picture. We are fighting for the pride of Punjab now. We don’t want to be listed among the stated in the red. In the fourth year of the Congress government, Punjab will be back on its feet. Meanwhile, the government plans to bring social security legislation and some departments like lottery will be added to it. This will ensure that disbursements under various welfare schemes will be paid on time.
 
 
 
 
 It is not a question of opposition. We are answerable to the people of Punjab not to the people who were at the helm for the last 10 years but have now been reduced to less than 15 seats in the House. Had they (Akalis) done something for Punjab, they would not have been in this condition now.
 
 
 
 
 The allocation for agriculture budget will go up by 40% this time. Revenue receipts will go up by 30%. What objection can they have? They could not do anything for 10 years… I feel that if at all the   has a problem, it is with Manpreet face and that is something I cannot change.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 There is delay in receiving data from commercial banks and relief is being given in a piecemeal way. The pace of debt waiver scheme depends on data received from banks. Last year, around Rs 300 crore could be spent. As and when the debt waiver catches pace next year, we are open to topping up allocation. Resources have been mobilized with steps like raising Mandi Board fee and rural development fee by 1% each to get Rs 900 crore more. It was a promise made by the Congress government and we are going to go ahead with it. Initiatives like electricity subsidy will kick start our industry, which was becoming unviable due to costly power. I don’t know if the Centre will be willing to provide money for debt waiver.
 
 
 
 
 It is wrong to say the budget was leaked. A question on bus stand was listed before the budget and Sidhu said 14 new terminals were on the cards but did not know if the town in question was on the list. In, reality 16 stands will be built.
 
 
 
 
 It has brought me unpopularity. A finance minister’s job is an unpopular one. To say “no” is not a good thing but we will have to. Expenses of the government have fallen by Rs 6,000 crore. Revenue resource mobilization has been effectively done this time. People will remember this government for improving the state’s finances. We are looking at the next generation, not just next year. Achievements in politics lie in an action-oriented approach, not walkouts.
 
