HYDERABAD: In a hurry to please the farmers in the state, the   has  . The much hyped scheme of extending   to farmers is now staring at numerous questions on the eligibility criteria. 

 The state government has first announced that only those who cultivate their land would be eligible for getting the dole. This means, every farmer should get a certificate from the local village revenue officer or agriculture extension officer that the land is actually under cultivation. Basedon the certificate, the 4000 credit capital will be issued in a form of a cheque. 
 
 But in the hindsight the state government has realised that the condition would actually open gates for widespread corruption with village officers demanding money to issue the cultivation certificate. The government is now thinking on giving money to the farmers who have not taken up the cultivation and fearing that this would lead to 'heart burn' among the farmers in Telangana. 
 
 If the government takes the route of pattadar passbook, then it has to provide financial assistance to all the 72 lakh farmers. But the fact is that during the  , from when the state government wants to start giving the money, maximum cultivation in the state has never crossed 25 lakh acres. Which means more than half of the land has been kept idle by the farmers. Moreover the state government has to cough up at least 6000 crore to provide 4000 per acre to 72 lakh farmers in both the seasons would further burden the exchequer. "If we insist on the cultivation, several farmers would be left out and there is possibility of corruption in the village level.   from the officers which would finally defeat the very objective of the government," pointed a senior official. 
 
 Taking all aspects into the consideration, the agriculture department has recommended to provide assistance to all farmers without insisting on the cultivation. Similarly, the lands on which legal issues are pending would also get the financial help based on the record provided by the revenue department. 
 
 
