BENGALURU: A Bengalurean took two-wheeler maker Hero   Ltd to court after his brand new motorcycle gave poor mileage, contrary to what had been promised by sales personnel at a showroom and in online advertisements. The city consumer court recently ordered the company to take back the motorcycle and refund the full cost to the buyer, apart from Rs 10,000 towards court expenses.

 On January 30, 2013, Kempegowda Nagar resident   purchased a Hero Ignitor 125cc from Majestic Mobikes showroom on RV Road, Shankarapura, after paying Rs74,796, including taxes. He was promised mileage of up to 60 kmpl and a smooth ride by the sales personnel and the same was reaffirmed by a few online advertisements too.
 
 But within a few days, Naragund realized his motorcycle was giving a mileage of less than 35 kmpl. He brought the matter to the notice of technicians in the showroom, who assured him that after second service the vehicle would give the promised 60 kmpl. However, the mileage only got poorer after second service.
 
 Naragund escalated the matter to Hero MotoCorp, which provided technical assistance to improve mileage. The bike showed slight improvement, but developed other problems like more engine noise and an uncomfortable ride.
 
  up with the new buy after 11 months, Naragund wrote to Hero MotoCorp on December 04, 2013, demanding a refund of Rs74,796 that he had paid towards the motorcycle. But it was denied.
 
 On February 22, 2014 , Naragund approached the   2nd Additional District Consumer Disputes Redressal Forum with a complaint against Hero MotoCorp and Majestic Mobikes. While the Bengalurean presented details of the faulty motorcycle, Hero’s counsel blamed the complainant’s poor riding skills and bad riding conditions in the city. The litigation lasted three years and 10 months, at the end of which the consumer forum said Hero couldn’t prove its claims, including the mileage it said the motorcycle is capable of offering.
 
 In its December 21 judgment, the forum ordered Hero MotoCorp and Majestic Mobikes to refund Rs 74,796 to Naragund after receiving the damaged vehicle from him. It also ordered the parties to pay Rs 10,000 towards litigation expenses.
 
 
 
 
 
