CHENNAI: The Tamil Nadu government on Monday kick-started month-long   camps across the state to help government school students crack  . An estimated 3,000 students will undergo the   at nine different college campuses in the state.

 School   secretary Pradeep Yadav launched the camp at the Sathyabama Institute of Science and Technology campus where 400 students from 12 different districts had assembled and will undergo training. Among the nine  , three will instruct students in English, while the remaining six will have Tamil as the medium of instruction. 
 
 Allen Career Institute from Kota and Chaitanya   Centre will carry out the training at three centres while another 128 teachers from government schools have been given training in Bangalore by Chaitanya to coach other students. Besides this, students will also be able to access VSAT sessions offered by Speed Coaching Institute.
 
 Yadav said that students have been chosen on the basis of their scores in Class X. “The concept of residential coaching was brought in because we felt students could focus on their studies without any distractions and gain access to all the required facilities. In addition, information sharing between peers will take place when they are together,” he said.
 
 “The level of training that will be offered at these residential   is not less than that in any private coaching centre. Since the test is relatively new for everyone, every student has an equal shot at cracking it,” he added.
 
 Yadav said a total of 8,223 students have enrolled for NEET coaching in government training centres including the residential camps across the state, and enquiries are continuing to come in. The number of female students who have enrolled both in the residential and non-residential centres is higher with a total of 5,850 girls compared to 2,383 boys. A total of 154 students from Chennai district have enrolled for the training. Virudhunagar, Salem and Tiruvallur had the higher number of enrolments while Nagapattinam had the least students. 
 
 
