HYDERABAD: Nahgabhushanam, a civil engineer from  , had married  , a science post-graduate from Bengaluru, four years ago and the couple has a son. They moved into the flat at   complex a year ago.

 Alerted by residents of the apartment, SR Nagar   reached the spot and  , who was at his workplace, also returned home.
 
 When questioned by police about his whereabouts at the time of the incident, Nagabhushanam claimed he was at his office at   and some of his colleagues also corroborated his version.
 
 After the incident, police called a Clues Team to the spot. A sniffer dog went to the second floor of the apartment and returned not providing any lead.
 
 Police found blood stains at multiple locations on the upper floor stairs leading towards the terrace, indicating that the offender went to the terrace after committing the crime. “The assailant might have suffered an injury or it could be the victim’s blood. The purpose of going to the terrace might be to look for a safe way out of the building or throw away something,” police said.
 
 Forensic experts, who visited the spot, told TOI that the assailant set ablaze the body using sesame oil found in the house, probably puja room. “As it was sesame oil, there was not much smoke particle residue at the crime scene. The body also burnt slowly due to the sesame oil and it indicates that the victim might have died due to stab injuries,” a police source said.
 
 The assailant stabbed the victim on her throat, left temple, thigh and chest. There were knives in the kitchen, but forensic team could not find a blood-stained weapon.
 
 The victim’s cell phone was recovered from the toilet flush tank. “As the phone was in water, it was not functional and we gave it to technical team to recover data,” an investigating official said. Police said after Nagabhushanam left the house for work, he did not call his wife and her cellphone data was being analysed to get some possible leads.
 
 The victim’s body was in the hall and there was no indication that an attempt was made to steal valuables from the house. “Neighbours did not hear any screams. The only resistance injury Soumya had was on her left palm. Her thumb was cut, possibly while trying to stop the assailant from stabbing her. The door keys are with Soumya and her husband. We suspect that the assailant rang the door bell and entered the house. He could be someone known to her,” a police source said.
 
 The apartment watchman told police that he locked the gate around 11.30pm and slept, but a resident told investigators that he found the gate open when he returned at 11.50pm.
 
 Police registered a case under Section 302 (murder) of the IPC and shifted the body for post-mortem examination.
 
