CHENNAI: A 26-year-old mentally-ill man who had been reported   since Sunday was crushed to death by a water van on   early on Tuesday, police said. 

 The body was identified as that of Kotturpuram resident M   with the help of photos the Kotturpuram police had sent to all police stations in the city and also posted on social media sites after he went missing.
 
 Praveen, who had been working in the housekeeping department of a popular hotel on Dr   for the last five years, had gone missing on around 6.45am on Sunday. His family is yet to be informed of his death. His father  , a postal department employee, is set to return from a pilgrimage to Sabarimala on Wednesday, while his mother Vijayalakshmi and two siblings afflicted with the same condition as Praveen remain at home, police said.
 
 Around 2.45am on Tuesday, the Chintadripet police received a call informing them that a water van had overturned near the head post office on Anna Salai. A team rushed to the spot and it was only after the vehicle was straightened that they found the body beneath. "The van, which was to supply water to various railway stations, had unloaded a few cans at   and was headed towards Central Railway Station when the incident occurred. The steering developed a fault and driver Murugan, 38, lost control. In a bid to avoid hitting a two-wheeler, he turned left sharply and the vehicle overturned," said the investigation officer. 
 
 "Even then the driver and the cleaner were not aware that the vehicle had falled on Praveen walking on the pavement. It was only after we tried to lift the van that the body was found. It was sent to the government hospital," the officer added. 
 
 On Sunday morning, Vijayalakshmi was taking Praveen to the hotel where he worked as she normally did. The two got off a bus at Adyar Gate bus stop on Pasumpon Muthuramalinga Thevar Salai (Chamiers Road) in Nandanam and took another bus. Vijayalakshmi got in through the front entrance and asked Praveen to get in from the rear. A short while later, after the bus had moved, she realised he was missing and immediately got off.
 
 After a long but vain search, she approached the Kotturpuram police who registered a case and sent out messages to all police stations about the missing man along with his photo.
 
 
