PANAJI: The opposition against the Planning and Development Authorities ( ) got stronger on Friday with ‘Goemkars against PDAs’ giving the government an ultimatum of one week to begin the process of denotifying PDAs from all villages failing which they have threatened to take to the streets and are even considering going on a hunger strike. They also demanded scrapping of the regional plan 2021 and an amendment to the Town and Country Planning Act to empower panchayats to formulate their own plans. 

 Convener ‘Goemkars against PDAs’ Arturo D’Souza said that the least the government could have done is hold an emergency TCP board meeting and take a resolution to remove all PDAs. 
 
 “Amend the TCP Act and involve intelligent people,” he said, adding that Goans do not want “politicians to come an inch closer to making changes in the TCP Act”.
 
 “Give (local bodies) constitutional powers according to the 73rd and 74th amendment,” he said while addressing the hundreds of protesters who had gathered at Azad Maidan to support the movement.
 
 Representatives from various villages hit out at TCP minister Vijai Sardesai, chairman   (NGPDA)   and chairman Greater Panaji Planning and Development Authority (GPPDA) Atanasio ‘Babush’ Monserrate for forcing PDAs upon the people of the state.
 
 They alleged that planning is not taking place “scientifically or based on any environmental impact assessment” but according to the “whims and fancies of politicians”. 
 
 “What was the need to make Monserrate the chairman of the GPPDA? He is not an elected representative. He didn’t win the election,” D’Souza said.
 
 Alleging involvement of huge kickbacks, activist Prajal Sakhardande questioned the government’s rationale of retaining the Kadamba plateau in the PDA when it had removed Chimbel and St Cruz. “Kadamba plateau is on the top of Chimbel village and is a part of the village,” he said, adding that all builders from around the country are flocking to the plateau where residents face water shortage and are forced to depend on tanker water. He reiterated the demand for special status for Goa.
 
 Former St Cruz MLA Victoria Fernandes reminded those gathered of the Opinion Poll when people fought for Goa. “If we hadn’t fought, the government and MLAs wouldn’t have been here today,” she said, explaining that it is panchayats and not PDAs that are for villages.
 
 Director Goa Foundation Claude Alvares also lent support to the movement, stressing on the importance of gram sabhas and stating that the TCP department is the “source of all problems for Goans”.
 
 “Before the TCP department nobody would construct in fields and on the hills,” he said, adding that the Panchayati Raj Act came in force in 1994, twenty years after the TCP Act came into force in 1974. “Therefore Panchayati Raj rules and, in the panchayat, the panchayat doesn’t rule, the gram sabha rules. This is the law of the land and of the Constitution. If you do anything else you are an unconstitutional monster,” he said.
 
 Sabina Martins, Rama Kankonkar, Fr Savio Fernandes, Rudolf Fernandes and Cyriaco Dias were among the speakers.
 
 
