CHENNAI: The city is likely to face a shortage of milk this summer as the overall production in   has of late come down by 15%.

 Of the total 1.98 crore litre milk produced across the state, city consumes around 11-12 lakh litres per day, according to government records.
 
 “Given the rate at which the yield is declining due to shortage in fodder and concentrated cattle feed, supply to cities including Chennai will be hit within a matter of few weeks,” said M  , general secretary of  .
 
 The association wanted Tamil Nadu Co-operative Milk Producers’ Federation, popularly known as Aavin, to provide more fodder and concentrated cattle feed at subsidised rate and increase the daily procurement rate.
 
 Unlike the neighbouring state of  , in which government-owned Nandini procures more than 90 % of the total milk produced, Aavin in Tamil Nadu procures only 15 %.
 
 From 33 lakh litres in 2016-17, Aavin’s procurement through all the 17 registered cooperative unions has come down to 27.5 lakh litres this March.
 
 The procurement rate has also not changed from Rs 27-29 per litre for years even when the production cost is on the rise consistently. 
 
 Two years ago, milk producers spent around Rs 33-37 to produce one litre of milk and this has shot up to Rs 40-44 now because of increase in cost of fodder and cattle feed (up to Rs 5 a kg). 
 
 On an average, a milch cow requires 5 kg of dry fodder a day. In the coming months there may be shortages as supply of green fodder decreases in the summer. 
 
 The government’s attempt to provide fodder at subsidised rate (Rs 2 /kg) failed to meet the demand entirely, said D Jayaraj from Coimbatore. 
 
 More than 70 % of the intended beneficiaries did not receive their share of dry fodder, he said, adding besides resolving this shortage, the government should provide cattle feed at 50 % subsidy. Water shortage is also expected to make things even more difficult. 
 
 A milch cow producing 15-20 litres of milk per day requires 60-100 litres of water and with most wells dry, farmers were forced to spend Rs 1,000-Rs 1,500 for buying water from private tankers last summer. Despite repeated attempts by TOI, Aavin authorities were unavailable for comment.
 
 
