NEW DELHI: Nitish Kumar-led JDU, in a message to  , has said that Kumar should be the “face” of   in   during the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. The alliance would fare better given the CM’s popularity in the state,   said. 

 It appears that JDU is eyeing a “respectable” seat-sharing formula for the general elections, while retaining its claim to fight on more seats than BJP in the next assembly polls. 
 
 “It is established that Nitish is the biggest leader of the alliance in the state and NDA would do well by using his popularity and good governance image in the 2019 elections. We are the big brother of the alliance in Bihar. There is no conversation yet on seat-sharing arrangement. I am sure we and BJP will sit and resolve this matter,” JDU spokesperson KC Tyagi told ET. 
 
 Bihar BJP leaders said JDU, which contested 25 seats during the 2009 Lok Sabha polls and BJP 15, may settle at “about 15-16 seats” this time. “JDU also wants an assurance that the favour be returned in the next assembly polls too,” the leader said. 
 
 Towards this end, Kumar met senior JDU functionaries in Patna on Sunday ahead of a meeting of NDA partners in Bihar this week.   of LJP, NDA’s other partner, met BJP chief   on Sunday. 
 
 Paswan, like Nitish, has demanded special status for Bihar. A similar demand for Andhra was rejected by BJP leading to the break-up of alliance with Chandrababu Naidu’s TDP. Paswan’s party is looking to contest at least 5 seats, while Upendra Kushwaha-led RSLP is seeking at least 2 seats. Khuswaha has also demanded that the seat-sharing arrangement be formalised. He is also said to be parallelly in touch with the RJD camp. 
 
 “BJP, which has 22 MPs, will need to bring down its own number and accommodate others. It needs allies more now,” a JDU leader told ET. But a state BJP leader said the reality cannot be ignored that JDU currently has just 2 MPs in Bihar. “BJP will obviously get the largest chunk of the 40 seats as we have 22 MPs,” this leader said. 
 
 Kumar’s party has lost 2 recent assembly bypolls, while BJP has won 1 and lost the Araria Lok Sabha bypoll. Meanwhile, Paswan has said that Tejashwi Yadav and Chirag Paswan have a bright future in politics.
