KOLKATA: Bengal’s annual showpiece   conclave ended on a sweet note on Wednesday, with the   from PM Narendra Modi’s home state, Gujarat, declaring its intent to invest in multiple sectors in Didi’s state. The statement from group owner Gautam Adani’s nephew, Parnav Adani, capped the Bengal   Summit’s 2018 edition, which ended with total investment proposals of over Rs 2.19 lakh crore, with a potential to generate 20 lakh jobs.

 Even as the government brass was counting its gains, news came in that Bengal had become the sole number one among all Indian states in ease of doing business this week. “We did not announce this from the dais but this would act as a confidence-booster for those who have already promised to invest in Bengal,” a key government functionary said.
 
 The Adanis’ evincing of interest in investing here followed the likes of the Ambanis and the Jindals announcing — from the BGBS podium and off it — multi-thousand-crore fresh investments in Bengal over the last couple of days.
 
  
  
 
 Parnav Adani on Wednesday announced the conglomerate’s eagerness to invest in multiple sectors in the state. The group has presence in coal trading, coal mining, oil and gas exploration, ports, logistics, power generation, agriculture, edible oils, transmission and gas distribution. “We are interested in deep sea port, power, renewable energy and edible oil. Let us see how much we can do but, if everything goes well, the total investment figure will be upwards of Rs 10,000 crore,” he said. Insiders said if the negotiations were positive, the investment could scale Rs 20,000 crore, bringing it on par with Mukesh Ambani’s investments in Bengal.
 
 Bengal CM   is particularly keen that the group develop the proposed deep sea port (Bhor Sagar) at Sagar. The Centre and the state are now jointly developing this key infrastructure project.
 
 Adani later met chief secretary Malay De and other bureaucrats to discuss the projects. “We are doubling our capacity in the edible oil unit in Haldia and looking at possibilities in port. The capacity addition in the Haldia unit will require an investment of Rs 750 crore. More than 4,500 people are already employed there,” he said.
 
 The icing on the cake was Bengal finishing solo numero uno in ease of doing business, pipping Gujarat and   in the weekly list published by department of policy and promotion (DIPP) of the union commerce ministry. Bengal ranked joint first along with the two states last week.
 
 A visibly confident and pleased CM, in her concluding address, declared the date of BGBS 2019. “It will be on February 7 and 8 next year. We have scheduled it in February because the Davos Economic Summit is slated in January,” she explained.
 
 Inviting investors from Japan, Korea and China to invest in Bengal, Banerjee also took a dig at the centre: “Tolerance is the key and, if you don’t have tolerance, nobody will come,” she said.
 
 
