MYSURU: A show of   is, more often than not, the highlight of many an opening and closing ceremony. The sight of the sky set ablaze by pyrotechnics is a spectacle that is at once, memorable and enthralling. However, those responsible for such dazzling displays often remain behind the scenes, drinking up the appreciation and lapping up the praise in a comfortable anonymity.

 For the past 26 years, firecrackers that have been stealing the show at the   have come from the workshop of  , and it is 68-year-old AR   who has been making these explosive delights. Shakarachar was all of six when his tryst with firecrackers began. Despite losing his right hand during a fireworks display in 1997, during the 50th year Independence Day Celebrations in Hassan, Shankarachar, who has since been working with a prosthetic arm, has refused let that dissuade him from his craft.
 
 Recalling the fateful incident that resulted in the loss of his arm, Shankarachar said, “It occurred when I was making arrangements for the display as part of the Independence Day celebrations. But, I have dedicated my life to this profession. We had many mishaps at our factory at Rajkamal Fireworks in Arasikere in Hassan, which was set up by my brother AR Rajachar. So, I decided to seek other means through which we could avoid these incidents. In 1984, I went to Japan to learn about the latest technology, which we adopted at our factory and since then, we have not had a single untoward incident.”
 
 
  
  
 
 
 Although his father too was in the fireworks business before him, Shankarachar made it clear that the family’s tryst with pyrotechnics would end with him. “We are done and dusted with the business. A single mistake can cost the lives of many people,” he added.
 
 At the   Jathra Mahotsava this year, there will be a 40-minute aerial display, along with a 15-minute show for rockets. V K Verghese, who is overseeing the fireworks display, said, “We have installed more than 300 bamboo and iron pipes filled with the cracker mixture, which will act as rockets.”
 
 Shankarachar pointed out that materials had been imported from across the globe for the display. “We have obtained chemicals that do not catch fire easily. They have been imported from Germany, France and Japan,” he added.
 
 Successfully organising colourful fireworks display at the National Games, Asian Games in Delhi and the South Asian Games in Chennai, are some of the feathers in Shankarachar’s cap.
 
 
