CHENNAI: The Sri Lankan duo of   and   go back a long way. It was a friendship that started off around a decade ago with Thangaraja being a caddie for the more experienced Mithun. They then went on to represent their country at the   in Guangzhou, China, and continue to be best buddies on tour to this day.
 
 
 As the 2018   reaches its conclusion on Sunday, though, their friendship will have to take a backseat, at least momentarily, as they battle it out for the top prize.
 
 At the end of the third round at Madras Gymkhana Golf Annexe here on Saturday, it was the Sri Lankans who once again dominated proceedings. While Mithun leads with a three-shot margin after posting five-under-65 to total 14-under-196, Thangaraja, who shared the lead with his compatriot and Vikrant Chopra (par and total of 201) after the second round, fell behind with a 2-under-68 for a total of 199. The day’s best score was by Veer Ahlawat with a seven-under. It helped him gain 13 places and end the day in third place at 10-under-200.
 
 “We are extremely close to each other. We talk a lot about each other’s games and how we can improve. If we didn’t get along, we wouldn’t be room partners this week. We share a healthy rivalry,” said Mithun on Saturday, even as he was waiting for Thangaraja to join him for lunch.
 
 Things turned in Mithun’s favour on Saturday post the 13th hole, till which there was nothing to separate the two. Mithun hit a birdie on the 14th while Thangaraja made a par. Things went from bad to worse when Thangaraja made a bogey on the 16th. Mithun grabbed the opportunity with both hands as he tapped-in for another birdie on the par-3 17th to build a three-shot cushion. 
 
 “I made more regulations today and got a little lucky with the putts on the back-nine. I didn’t give the others any chances to catch up with me. I’m delighted to have shot a second successive bogey-free round,” analysed the stoutly-built Mithun. 
 
 While Mithun has the experience of five PGTI titles under his belt, it’s been quite a while since he tasted success. His last title came in Bengaluru in February 2014, and the 31-year-old is desperate to end his recent trophy drought. Asked about his game plan in the final round, Mithun said he wanted to keep it simple. “It’s about turning up and playing my best golf. If I don’t do that, I won’t be able to win. I have to just repeat what I have done so far.”
 
 
