Born into a modest family in the obscure Sindhekela village of Balangir district, Dilip Ratha' s story mirrors that of many who have climbed the ladder of success with grit and gumption. Ratha is now the manager, migration and remittances unit, and head, Global Knowledge Partnership on Migration and Development (KNOMAD) in the Global Indicators Group of the  . Coming from a region known for migration of distressed labourers, Ratha (54) is considered an authority on global migration. 

  You have migrated from a region known for distressed migration of unskilled people to other parts of the country and even abroad. How do you think the situation can change? 
 
 Steps must be taken to stop migration due to extreme hardship. People must get enough livelihood options so that they are not forced to migrate. Nobody should be forced to migrate for livelihood. That's the worst emotional disturbance to anyone. It shatters family. No monetary reward can compensate that. The government should create enough livelihood options. That should happen ideally. 
 
 For migration, particularly of uneducated people who are more vulnerable, from one part of the country to another, and outside the country, there should be a strict monitoring mechanism. The government has to ensure that nobody falls victim to middlemen operating illegally. Every single migration should be registered.
 
 However, voluntary migration, whether of skilled or not-so-skilled, should not be discouraged. Migration doesn't just bring money, it also helps knowledge transfer. Mechanized agriculture in some of the impoverished pockets in the Kalahandi-Balangir-Koraput region got a fillip with workers migrating from here to Punjab and other parts of India for jobs. Similarly, when an Indian scientist or doctor or any other professional immigrates to the US, Australia or Canada, he transfers knowledge through peers, his contacts in alma mater and so on. It's not a bad thing at all.
 
  What's the short and long-term future of India's remittance economy? 
 
 Remittance economy for India is huge and far more robust than foreign direct investment. It's getting something between US $70 billion and US$90 billion annually. The best part of remittance is it goes to the poor, directly. From a global view point, the best way to transfer wealth from the rich to the poor is through remittance. Successful sons or daughters, migrating to greener pastures, remit money which is mainly used to fund education and health of his/her family and extended family members. Compared to many other Indian states such as Punjab and Kerala, international migration is less in Odisha. It will only grow.
 
 Apart from inward remittances, India is also a significant contributor to outward remittances. People from Bangladesh, Nepal and  , among other countries, are sending cash home from India.
 
  Despite the large size of remittance money, the change is not visible where it needs to be. Your village continues to remain poor. Why? 
 
 I don't think so. Maybe since immigration from Odisha to other countries is not very large, that is why it is not visible here. In states such as Punjab and Kerala, the philanthropic contributions and remittances to extended family members are visible. Migration, both within the country and abroad, has also changed the face of Odisha's poverty belt. People don't die of starvation any more. There is also change in lifestyle and what people wear.
 
  What should governments, both at the Centre and in the state, do to make this remittance economy more vibrant? 
 
 I have certain suggestions. The post offices at the lowest level should be allowed foreign currency transactions so that remittance money can reach rural areas, hassle-free. The government should also facilitate a similar system in rural branches of banks. 
 
 Secondly, the remittance charges for smaller transactions, both inward and outward, up to the threshold of say US $500 should be waived. This will help workers such as plumbers, mason, nurses working outside the country send more money to their relatives.
 
  What should Odisha do to harness the philanthropic zeal of its diaspora? 
 
 Every year the government should rate and publish lists of voluntary organizations doing good work, online. This will help those wanting to do something for the motherland choose credible charitable organizations. There can be more ways to connect with Odia diaspora.
 
  The phenomenon of skilled Indians migrating abroad is often called brain drain? How do you interpret this? 
 
 I completely disagree with such a negative concept. Whatever amount is spent on building a career professional is more than compensated in remittances which the person sends once he/she moves abroad. The knowledge-transfer and experience shared with peers and family is a huge bonus. The diaspora immensely contribute to nation building.
 
  Do you ever feel lonely staying away from your roots? 
 
 At times, yes! There is not a single day when I have not thought about my village, Sindhekela. In fact, my village taught me the lesson on global poverty. The village life has been the greatest source of inspiration and guiding force for my work as an economist. I wished my sons and wife were able to talk to my parents (who are no more). (Ratha's Venezuelan wife and their two sons speak English while his parents spoke only  ).
 
  Can you share some unknown facets of your journey from Sindhekela village to the World Bank... 
 
 I come from a very poor background. My father was a low-paid government employee. I relied on my own earning from tuitions in my college days. During my post-graduation at  , the money given by my father was just enough to pay the highly-subsidised hostel and university fees. I had to look for tuitions. With my Odia-villager-English-accent, no parent was ready to let me teach. I remember once having barged into the teachers' common room at a Kendriya Vidyalaya asking them to help me find a student whom I could offer tuitions. That did not work out either. I went to a broker who used to arrange tutors for students in Munirika. But before he could make up his mind and introduce me to a family, I memorised the phone number written on his diary and contacted the family directly. That brought me some money to buy my winter clothes. 
 
 
