AMBALA: Students of SRM College of Technical Education here on Tuesday smashed glasses and window panes of cars, blocked the   road for two hours and pelted stones at the police after a 19-year-old student allegedly committed suicide by hanging himself on the college premises.

 The victim,  , hailed from Nepal. He was a student of the fourth semester in civil engineering. Police claimed till 8 pm on Monday the student was in his hostel room along with his roommate. After one hour, he went out of the room and did not return. On Tuesday morning, some students found Ansari hanging in an under-construction building situated behind the hostel. Students informed the college authorities following which police was called. Students gathered and decided to protest against the alleged imposition of hefty fines. Meanwhile, some of the protesting students broke the window panes of classrooms as well as of cars and other vehicles parked inside the college. Later, they blocked the Naraingarh road. Police asked the students to end their blockade, leading to a heated exchange. The police finally lathi-charged the protesting students, who in retaliation pelted stones. However, no one was injured. One of the protesting students claimed the college authorities were not only charging a hefty fee but also imposing fines on students to boost its revenue. Students added fines imposed for not paying the semester fee were doubled in case a student fails to pay on time.
 
 Police claimed Ansari had appeared to have ended his life but the matter is being probed. Police said that both the authorities and students are being questioned. The victim’s father had passed away sometime back. He was studying here for last two years with his two brothers based in Dubai helping him out financially. College chairman   could not be contacted despite repeated attempts. Naraingarh DSP Rajbir   said, “We have registered a case under Section 174 of CrPC and informed family members of the victim. The students protested and pelted stones on us following which we resorted to mild cane charge. No one was injured. The student was intelligent.”
 
 
