CHANDIGARH: The   schools of UT Chandigarh seem to be agitated with education department’s move of challenging the minority status of three schools. Recently, through a mail they refused to give details regarding their minority status as asked by the district education office stating that these were asked in an attempt to “blackmail, harass and arm-twist” the minority schools. The mail further read, “It is clear that your attempt is only to collect evidence against the minority schools in Chandigarh and thereafter use the same against them.” The Independent School’s Association (ISA) president HS Mamik confirmed the reaction of the minority schools.

  has challenged the minority status granted to three unaided private minority schools-   in Sector 26, Vivek High School in Sector 38 and St Stephen’s in Sector 45- in the   and Haryana high court stating that they changed their memorandum to get minority status. Also these schools had sought minority status after the implementation of Right to Education Act (RTE). These schools had also not taken no objection certificate ( ) and had directly gone to minority commission to get minority status. 
 
 With the case of three minority schools being dragged by the UT education department, the rest of the minority schools in UT anticipate a similar fate. The ISA on behalf of its minority members has stated in the letter that the present proforma to be filled-in by the minority schools clearly reeks of malafide. The letter stated, “Since you have made it very clear to that you intend to challenge the minority status of all minority schools in Chandigarh, the present proforma, which the minority schools have been asked to fill-in, is wholly malafide and to only target the minority schools and an attempt to collect information to be attempted to be used against the minority schools.”
 
 ISA president HS Mamik said, “It is with malafide intent that they have asked these details as it has nothing to do with education and our case is subjudice. It seems that the department had decided to target minority schools and ignore the protection given to them under the constitution.”
 
 They concluded that “We, therefore, deem it proper at this stage, when the matters regarding the challenge to the minority status of three private unaided minority schools is subjudice, not to supply the information which has been asked for by you especially when the information asked for is already available in your records.”
 
 “We have received the information, we asked for, from seven to eight schools till Friday. We will see what to do next on Monday,” said district education officer Anujit Kaur. 
 
 It was first time in years that UT education department had asked all 22 minority schools to give details like date of allotment of land in UT Chandigarh, details mentioned in object clause or any other clause to incorporate the clause to impart education to minority communities, date-wise changes/amendments in object clause or any other clause and seats filled under land allotment clause.The last date to give the same was Friday and only seven out of 22 schools submitted the same. 
 
 
