CHANDIGARH: 12 days after the gruesome incident, the Kurukshetra police on Sunday busted the gang behind double murder and loot in Pindarsi village and arrested 11 persons, including three women of   community, from Rajasthan.

 Two persons, identified as   and Arjan Singh were brutally battered to death near their sheep pond on May 22. Police official said that the gang members were arrested by the police from different states in the country as all had run away after committing crime.
 
 Dozens of sheep belonging to the deceased were run over by a train on the same day. Initially, the case was registered at the local Government Railway Police ( GRP) police station in this connection. Later, it was handed over to Kurukshetra police.
 
 Police said that Harkesh Bagri alias Ramesh Chand was arrested from district   in Himachal Pradesh; Yadram alias Begu of Jaipur was arrested from Jalandhar; Ram Lal, Kamlesh, Ramesh Kumar, Bani Singh, Meera Devi, Mathura, all hailing from Rajasthan were arrested from Goverdhan UP. Mukesh Kumar and Barkha both from Rajasthan were arrested from Kullu and Jhangoli in Himachal Pradesh whereas Pokariya of   was arrested from Delhi. One accused was in a hurry to leave for Nepal.
 
 DGP B S   said that Kurukshetra SP had constituted six police teams with the help of cybercell and CCTV footage and conducted raids at various locations to identify the accused. Acting swiftly, police teams nabbed 11 members of gang from different locations and brought them to Kurukshetra.
 
 During interrogation, it was revealed that all accused had a plan to loot sheep at midnight. After committing crime all fled away using different modes of transport, including train.
 
 Police said that as per CCTV footage, involvement of 17 people were detected, including 12 men and five women. Out of which eight men male and three women have already been nabbed. The arrested accused are being interrogated for more information about their gang and efforts were on to arrest remaining six accused.
 
 
