In 2017, Aashna Singh and Sneha Saksena of a Delhi-based fashion label decided to put their two-year-old brand on hold. It might have been professional hara-kiri, but for the two it was a time to rethink. Enter Olio Stories ver 2.0. Singh says, “It made us think about what we’re putting out in this world crowded with products.” Now, the brand plans to concentrate on mindful creation, lower carbon footprints, (ideally) zero waste. They are not the only ones. Niche players like — The Sole Sisters, The Burlap People, Chiaroscuro bags, No Nasties; and designers like Aneeth Arora, Anita Dongre and Amit Aggarwal among others — are feeding a demand for conscientious fashion by a rising brigade of  s who make sure that the price tag doesn’t weigh heavy – on their wallets or their minds. 

 
 
 
 Fashion commentator Prasad Bidapa says the good part about India is that conscientious consumption is part of our tradition. He says, “India is a society that naturally recycles garments. Here clothes are handed down. We should be thankful for this, but at the same time make consumers aware of dangers of uncontrolled purchasing.” It’s time to re-evaluate buying decisions – go back to basics where clothes aren’t impulse purchases. 
 Last year, lifestyle influencer Naina Redhu decided to go cold turkey on fast fashion. Before shopping, she asked: “Where are the garments made? What were they in the news for? What material?” When Mamta Sharma started style blogging, she gave a serious thought to the impact her wardrobe was having on people and the planet. Sulagna Ghosh, owner of Sienna store/café in Kolkata, turned to ethical shopping when she started making handmade goods. “I realised that I had to alter the way in which I buy products as well.”
 Sharma adds, “The joy that I get in purchasing something that is created in line with my values surpasses the quick rush of buying a factory product,” she says. The resurgence of sarees — handloom and handmade — is a big push for the ethical shopping movement. In fact, India’s handloom tradition helps us to consume conscientiously as it’s easier to ensure that the artisan benefits. 
 
 
 
 Conscientious buyers — mostly millennials — are questioning the origin of their pieces. In an interview with Forbes, US-based retail expert Robin Lewis said: “This is a generation that is… more into the style of life than the stuff of life. This is a big threat to retail.” Recent studies have shown that when brands incorporate sustainability and corporate social responsibility into their DNA, millennial shoppers are more likely to spend their money on those products. 
 Recently, Arora purchased the warehouse surplus of trench coats and showcased them, after embroidering them, for her autumn-winter range. Revamping old sarees by using kinaris and gota is a common trend now. From mending clothes to swapping stuff with friends, all ensure a longer life cycle for clothes. 
 
 
 Writer, poet Karuna Ezara Parikh feels consumers are being urged to think about bigger choices. “Conscious fashion — as a concept — is no longer a niche for a bunch of urban hippies,” she says. The challenge is to balance consciousness and fashion. She says, “You can’t create an average bag and say ‘It’s earth-friendly’!” 
 Singh plans to leverage social media to create a community of mindful consumers and start events with pre-loved goodies. Designer Saimah Shaikh feels there needs to be a fundamental shift, and says, “Movements like #whomademyclothes are opening up the back end of the process to the consumers and helping them make right choices. Let’s hope we can further that transparency.” Ultimately, it’s not rocket science. As Sharma says, “Organic living is not a new trend. Respecting values, crafts and craftsmen is what is taught to us culturally and socially. The western fast fashion movements have taken over the charm 
 of slow fashion. Definitely a generation is awakening to its ill effects. We now want to wear clothes that tell a story.”
 
 
 
  Ask your favourite brands where their clothes were made, and by whom. Check their websites for social responsibility, ethical policies.
 
 
 You may feel bad about unfair labour but not bad enough to forego the 2-for-1 sale. Check yourself.
 
 
  There are a lot of apps like ‘Good on You’ that rate brands on how ethical they are, and offer alternatives. Instagram accounts UNEnvironment, Emma Watson’s page are worth a follow.
 
 
 Before you buy, consider how you’ll wear the piece/s. Commit to wearing a garment at least 30 times. Search #30wears for inspiration.
 
 
  Think quality not quantity. Go local. Look after the clothes to get more wear out of them. And mend.
 
 
  Upgrade that one piece in different, creative ways. 
 
 
 Previously owned clothes and vintage shopping is a way of building your own unique style in a sustainable way.
  
 
 According to studies, nylon can take up to 40 years to decompose! 
 
 
  ‘Fair trade’ stamp tells you that whoever made the product was paid a sustainable, living wage.
 
 
  Being an ethical shopper doesn’t mean you can’t treat yourself to a cheaper trend piece sometimes – it is all about conscious decision-making.
 
 Fast fashion is a term used by fashion retailers for collections that move quickly from ramps to stores, to capture current fashion trends
 Recent studies have shown that when brands incorporate sustainability and corporate social responsibility into their DNA, millennial shoppers are more likely to spend their money on those products
 
 
 
 
 
