MADURAI: At a time when   city is gearing for a transformation under the smart city scheme,  , a residential settlement located a stone’s throw away from Periyar bus terminal, has been grappling with lack of basic amenities like drainage, road and sanitation facility. 
 
 Located hardly a kilometre from the bus terminal, Heera Nagar has around 250 households. It was around five years ago that work for underground drainage (UGD) was started under   (JNNURM) in the colony. The work was left incomplete as the man holes constructed were yet to be connected. 
  
 Residents like S Syed Akbar who paid for the UGD connection a few years ago are waiting for the works to be over. “I have paid Rs 2,500 three years ago for the UGD hoping that it would be completed soon and I could get a connection for my toilet. The manholes are yet to be interlinked, leave alone giving connections for the households,” he said. 
  
 The concrete road which was damaged for the UGD work is also yet to be laid again. Without any drainage facility, water often gets clogged on the roads posing health hazard to the residents, said V  , another resident.  , another resident, said “We have been petitioning various officials for the last several months to get the UGD work done. No action has been taken so far. Meanwhile, people have started letting the toilet pipes into adjacent Kirudhumal channel. Now the channel is flowing with human excreta.” 
  
 Although they have been residing in the locality for more than 60 years, they are yet to be given patta. Most of the houses are tile-roofed since the house owners are waiting for patta to construct proper houses. “We have been paying various taxes and water and electricity bills. While the patta has been issued to nearby areas like Thideer Nagar, we were left without any help,” said S  , another resident of Heera Nagar, adding that they petitioned the district collector very recently too. 
  
 When contacted, assistant executive engineer for zone IV, F Arockia Xavier, said that the pending UGD work had been taken up with the concerned people. It was just two days work and would be completed quite soon. The road work would be taken up immediately after the UGD work, he said. 
  
 
