LUCKNOW: As the process for the recruitment of 41,520 police personnel has begun, keeping it transparent would be a major test for the   government. Such drives in previous regime have been mired in controversy. The government has adopted stringent measures for giving fair chance to candidates for their selection and has introduced biometric system of attendance right from the examination till training to catch impersonators.

 Similarly, in order to have young and smart youths in the force who could tackle cases of cyber crime and facilitate foreign tourists, those with extra knowledge of computer will have an edge. Besides, the government has reintroduced the written test. In the previous   government, written tests had been done away with for contables’ recruitments.
 
 Speaking to TOI, chairman of the recruitment board, GP Sharma said that it is for the first time that biometric system was being introduced in examinations and physical tests. “The biometric system will be used from the examination hall to the training of the recruits after their selection,” said Sharma. He said that the online applications for 41,520 posts of constables of which 23,520 in the civil police and 18,000 in the PAC, could be submitted from January 22. For Sharma, it is a major challenge as recruitment of constables in UP has been ridden with controversies. In Mulayam Singh Yadav’s government, the then government had to face lots of allegations of scandalous recruitment of nearly 21, 000 police constables. The   government had ordered inquiry and placed nearly two dozen IPS officers under suspension and cancelled the all the recruitments. The recruitments were challenged in the  , but later on the Akhilesh Yadav government withdrew the case from the apex court .
 
 In the Akhilesh government ,the recruitment of the police had turned controversial after the CM declared that there would be no written exams and only physical test. This was challenged in the SC which has reserved the judgment on the selection of 23,000 constables. Their fate is still uncertain.
 
 
