KESHPUR: Nearly four weeks after a management graduate Chiranjib   (30) died in Sydney, his family at   in   was on Wednesday left with no option but to give their permission to the Indian consulate in the Australian city to cremate his body there. Hazra will be cremated at 1pm on Thursday, Sydney time.

 The consulate and a funeral service firm, with which Hazra’s family had constantly been communicating, had told them they would not be able to fly the body back home as it was fast decomposing. None of the family members, on the other hand, had a passport to visit Australia.
 
 
  
 Hazra’s body was found at his rented room on January 26. Ever since they learnt about his death, his family, especially Chiranjib’s brother-inlaw Anup Samanta, had been demanding that the Indian consulate there coordinate with the Australian authorities and make arrangements to fly Hazra’s body back home. Locally, the family had tried knocking on the doors of chief minister Mamata Banerjee and West Midnapore DM as well, but to avail. Hazra’s friend in Sydney, Nitish Patel, reportedly told Sukanya, elder sister of the deceased, that he had contacted the local police but did not receive any cooperation. The cops apparently denied Nitish even a chance to see his friend’s body.
 
 The consulate and the funeral servic e firm had requested if at least one member of the family could be in Sydney for Hazra’s funeral there. But, without a passport, they replied they would not be able to travel there. The consulate and the funeral service company then sought the family’s permission to cremate Hazra in Sydney.
 
 Hazra’s brother-in-law Samanta has finally emailed the consulate that they should go ahead with cremation in Sydney. The consulate wrote back, saying the permission would have to come from Hazra’s father, Chittaranjan. The father emailed the consulate and the funeral service firm around 10.38am on Tuesday, giving the nod for the rites in Sydney. The family received an email from the funeral service at 10.06 am on Wednesday that arrangements had been made to cremate Chiranjib at 1 pm on Thursday, Sydney time.
 
 “Despite repeated efforts and knocking on various doors, we could not bring him back for his last rites. The Indian government and the Australian authorities were not at all helpful,” one of the family members rued.
 
