NAGPUR: Creativity at its best is on show at   Art Gallery where six   from the city are exhibiting their works. Inaugurated on February 3, the exhibition has been organized under the   initiative of the South Central Zone Cultural Centre ( ) which provides a platform to local artists, and will continue till February 7.

 Art work in various media like acrylic, watercolours and sculptures by two artists   and   are on display. Each artist has presented 11 of their works. The art captures various moods and emotions as in the fish series by Sharad Amblkar. “Fish has a character of its own but I have used it to depict various human emotions too,” says Amblkar. The highlight of his art work is unique texture that he has created in the paintings. “I have used thick layers of acrylic paint and have experimented with knife, thread and brush to create different textures which then have been sprayed with water,” he says and adds he has used warm and vibrant colours to spread positive energy.
 
 A series of 11 paintings by Sanjeev Ghate capture poses of Bharatanatyam dancer. “I like the costumes, movements and light effects seen in a dance performance,” says Ghate who watches videos and refers to photographs to capture the right pose and stance of the dancer. “I have kept the background solid black so that the image dominates,” he explains.
 
 Twenty-three-year-old artist Shruti Sahasrabudhe-Parchure is fascinated with bottles and uses the image in all her paintings. “I love the element of transparency in glass bottles. I fill these bottles with all the emotions playing within me like anger, frustration, joy and relationships and also use it for depicting daily routines and the bond shared by couples,” says Shruti.
 
 The only artist with watercolour paintings at this event, Sunil Puranik describes this media as the most difficult. “In watercolour paintings you cannot wipe out what has been drawn. But I like it as watercolours give the most natural effect,” says Puranik whose paintings capture the visuals of Mahal area in East Nagpur.
 
 The two sculptors in the group Chetan and Akash have graduated from CISFA (Central India School of Fine Arts). “I work on female forms and try to capture their emotions like joy of freedom,” says Akash. “My effort is to express everyday happenings in life and pick up subjects like unstoppable relationships and garden sculptures,” says Chetan whose work titled ‘Mother and Child’ is fluid and flawless.
 
 
