TRICHY: A total of 8,100 people across all age groups, who were found with mental disorder in Trichy, are being providing with a monthly financial assistance of Rs 1,500. Being a congenital disability, mental retardation (MR) could cripple affected people right from their childhood. Further, the number is on the rise by 100 every year. 

 With MR remaining a disturbing factor, the district   office is providing them with the financial assistance and encouraging special schools for the children. Overall, the office disbursed Rs 17.82 crore as financial assistance and welfare measures to around 11,855 differently-abled people last year.
 
 Since the possibility of the disorder getting cured is highly remote, the special education according to the severity of the problem could result in their improvement to a certain extent. Considering the lifetime adversity of the special children, the government’s scheme has come as a mild relief to them.
 
 “Complete recovery is not possible for MR people because the disorder continues from birth. The   of parenting will be an only option for them to survive for some more time. Our financial support will be additional,” said district differently-abled   (DDRO) N  , on Thursday.
 
 According to data released by the district administration, the district has a total of around 12,000 MR people, of which only 8,100 are receiving the financial assistance.
 
 The special education also played a major role in keeping the   engaged. In Trichy district, a total of 20 special schools are functioning and around 1,500 are undergoing special coaching.
 
 Being run by the NGOs, the schools employed special educators and physiotherapists for whom the government would provide Rs 30,000 per month as salary.
 
 Besides the mentally retarded people, three other categories of people – 465 severely disabled, 285 leprosy cured and 155 muscular dystrophy – received a total financial assistance of Rs 15.85 crore in 2017, a statement said. The assistance will be credited to their bank account every month.
 
 
