BHOPAL: Former chief minister and veteran BJP legislator Babulal   put his own party in a tight spot in the assembly after he sought information about the government employees, including teachers, being recruited for election work.

 Out of the total 45,654 state government teachers, 41,340 have been appointed as BLO (Block Level Officers), for the upcoming assembly elections. This information came out when minister of state for general administration Lal Singh   replied to a question raised by Gaur. All these teachers along with other government employees like Aanganwadi workers, patwaris, panchayat secretaries, village-level workers, electricity bill readers, postmen, assistant nurses and midwives, health workers and mid-day meal workers among others will work for the   during the election.
 
 “The EC has no cadre and hence, the workforce comes from various government departments. Someone has to do this work for the EC and it is always done on Saturdays and Sundays. The work that is given to the teachers by the EC is temporary in nature,” Arya said. He added that the state’s education would not be affected and quoted figures to claim that students were getting top grades.
 
 If 41,340 teachers out of 45,654 are deployed for election work in the 65,200 polling stations, the education system will be “choupat (collapse),” Gaur said. Gaur then quoted his own set of figures and claimed that in mathematics, students of Madhya Pradesh ranked 29th amongst all states and Union territories in the country and 26th in languages.
 
 Gaur persisted and asked for figures of the state government employees from other departments who have been deployed for election work. On this, the minister did not reply. Wasting no time   MLAs quipped, “Does the minister not want to answer the question?”
 
 Lal Singh Arya then stood-up and said he would send the details to Gaur later. But an adamant Gaur said, “Why not now? The reply should come now.” Arya, however, said he would send the figures to the former chief minister.
 
 
