He is the son of yesteryear actor Rony Vincent, but industry connections had no role to play in Ronson Vincent’s tinsel town entry. 

 One of the few actors of the Malayalam small screen known for their enviable physique, Ronson has inspired his fellow artistes too to hit the gym. The youngster, who became a household name through the character Nandan in the popular serial Bharya, is trying something new with the character, of late. In a freewheeling chat with us, Ronson shares more about it.
 
 
 
 Bharya is Malayalam serial which made me a popular face, through the role of Nandan. I was introduced to the serial’s director Manu Sudhakaran by my friend Jose Peroorkada, who is a production controller. Seeing my physique, Manu tweaked the whole script to fit in that aspect too.
 
 Nandan is a good man but he transforms into a baddie owing to the influence of his in-laws. Bharya is probably the only Malayalam serial with some high-voltage action sequences, thanks to our director who loves the genre. For the past 20 episodes, Nandan has been putting on a ‘mentally-challenged’ act to trap his crooked brother-in-law Sharath, played by Arun G Raghavan. These episodes have won me the best feedback till date, with people applauding Nandan’s mannerisms. Acting as someone who acts mentally challenged is quite a task.
 
 
 
 The show has crossed over 600 episodes and now we are like a family. We engage in pranks, do dub smashes like ‘Yogi Palu Kudi’ which went viral, shop together and also hang out when time permits. Rajesh Hebbar and Arun are my gym buddies and it’s fun to workout with them. I could motivate  , who plays my mom-in-law, to follow a diet and shed weight. Alongside popularity as an artiste, Bharya also gifted me good friends.
 
 
 
 Urvashi Theatres is a fun-filled show where we get a chance to engage in a lot of entertaining acts for audience. I love trying comedy and recently, I dressed up as Lord Krishna for the Vishu special episode. K P A C Lalitha Chechi was the special guest and it was touching when she shared memories of working with my father, Rony. It’s at the age of 25 that he quit films and he is now in his 60s. I wasn’t born when he was a film actor so when the veteran actress recalled her experiences, it was special for me.
 
 
 
 Star Wars was a show that didn’t prioritise safety at all, be it while we climbed hills or jumped into rivers. Though I was the winner, all I got was a serious shoulder injury. I have been taking physiotherapy for it from the day the show was over. Actress Sarayu miraculously escaped death as she almost hit a big rock during a task. The makers wanted to capture the real risk and fear of the artistes to increase rating. Once, Rajeev Parameshwar’s arm got burnt and there was not even a fire extinguisher around. I must say the show was a waste of energy and time for the participants.
 
 
 
 Apart from Urvashi Theatres and Bharya, I have a film in my kitty. The film is about an epic character Kollam Krishna Pillai, and is directed by Kowdiar Das. I have been invited to participate in the Malayalam edition of Big Boss show as well. But as I fear the show would affect my healthy lifestyle, so I have not decided yet.
 
 
 
 
