HYDERABAD:The ‘Cyber City’ of Hyderabad will have to wait for another three months for its traffic management to get smarter. For, the shift to an Intelligent Traffic Management System ( ), initiated by the Hyderabad traffic police to analyse and manage vehicular traffic movement better, will take a few more months to be completed.

 “ITMS is an improved version of the   (HTRIMS) — an automated signal system controlled by a command control centre. It will take another three to four more months to be fully up and running. The software development is under process and installation of nearly 30% of the sensors and   cameras is pending,” Joint Commissioner of Police (traffic) V   told TOI.
 
 Blaming the monsoons and road laying work for the delays, Ravindra said it is mainly the connectivity work that is under process.
 
 Explaining in detail, Narsing Rao, inspector (traffic), Hyderabad, said: “The connectivity means connecting the installed intelligent CCTV cameras and sensors to the command control room. Only 20% of the work has been done so far and it will take another couple of months to finish the connectivity part.”
  
  
 According to traffic cops, the ITMS will also be linked to a water-logging detector, which will detect traffic moving towards water-logged points and automatically inform commuters about alternate routes through virtual message boards and automated announcement systems.
 
 “Currently we have surveillance cameras at various locations but under ITMS, an additional 1,000 CCTV cameras will be put up. These will be connected to the command control room, which will monitor the traffic movement. The cameras and sensors will also be linked to a water-logging detector, which will send an alarm to the command control room if the water cross a particular level and suggest alternate routes. We have identified 15 such areas that are prone to water logging, where sensors are yet to be installed. The water logging sensors are being tested. Once that is done, the installation won’t take much time,” explained Narsing Rao.
 
 According to the traffic police department, these cameras will also help them in the task of enforcement as they will capture instances of violations and alert the owner of the vehicle.
 
 “The new cameras, which will be equipped with ANPRs – Automated Number Plate Recording System — will capture vehicle numbers of speeding vehicles or wrong side driving, which are common violations in the city. This ANPR will be embedded into the software and will automatically send an alert to the vehicle owner, helping help us in better policing,” said DCP (traffic) AV Ranganath.
 
 Currently, the city has 226 signals equipped with virtual loop cameras for synchronized signals. “Presently, the junctions and stretches are analysed and accordingly scheduled for 3 minutes, 120 seconds and 90 seconds time duration at different times of a day.
 
 However, with the help of improved sensors at signal lights, the ITMS will calculate the volume of vehicles passing through a stretch or junction and suggest changes in the cycle of signals,” added Ranganath.
 
 
