CHANDIGARH: Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER) has failed to recover   of Rs 2 crore and short levied penalty of Rs 72.77 lakh for delays on part of vendors in supply and installation of equipment, according to the comptroller and auditor general ( ) report tabled in   on April 5. The report also highlighted the institute lacks established and approved procedures, resulting in procurement on ad hoc basis.

 
  
 To assess whether the equipment were being procured as per the laid down guidelines of General Financial Rules (GFR), an audit was undertaken of the procurement of equipment covering a period from 2012 to 2017. As many as 81 out of 491 cases of procurement costing above Rs 10 lakh and 11 departments out of 49 were randomly selected.
 
 The detailed scrutiny of records maintained by the department of radiodiagnosis and imaging revealed the down time period recorded of 11 equipment was beyond the permissible limit ranging from three days to over eight months. Accordingly, penalty of Rs 2.10 crore was leviable from suppliers, out of which only Rs 9.34 lakh had been recovered.
 
 The report also pointed out “tampering” of record. The audit highlighted cuttings and tampering in the log books to change days initially marked as “not working” to “working”. In some cases, tampering in the timings of repair of equipment were also noticed.
 
 The audit pointed out there was delay ranging from one week to over two years in installation of equipment in 58 cases, of which equipment were installed with a delay up to 110 weeks in 17 cases. Penalty in two of these cases of Rs 64.12 lakh was yet to be recovered, while in the remaining 41 cases delay was within 20 weeks, and delay was condoned by the competent authority in 39 cases. In two cases, neither delay was condoned nor penalty of Rs 8.65 lakh levied. Thus, penalty amounting to Rs 72.77 lakh remained to be recovered from four suppliers for delayed installation of equipment.
 
 The CAG also pointed out the institute had no purchase/procurement manual that could guide procurement actions within given time frames. Though the institute had got prepared a purchase/procurement manual through the  , it had yet to be approved by the Central government. Not only that, the institute also lacked a comprehensive plan for procurement of equipment and the procurements were based on requirements received from departments on ad hoc case-to-case basis.
 
 Lack of guidelines led to delay in processing of procurement proposals. The scrutiny of records revealed that delays ranged from one month to over four years in 80 out of the 81 cases worth around Rs 136.92 crore against the prescribed time of four months for completing the entire purchase process.
 
 
 
