Decades of bitter court battles came to an end on Friday after the   gave its seal of approval to the   Water Management Authority, a body of technocrats and policy makers, to resolve the inter-state river water dispute. The storage, apportionment, regulation and control of Cauvery waters are now vested with this body which will formally come into existence once it is gazetted by the Centre. There is a rider though — the mechanism “can seek the help” of the Centre in implementing the tribunal award that was modified by the Supreme Court on February 16.

 “It is a historic verdict. Due to persistent efforts of the state, the court rendered justice to Tamil Nadu. We hope the Centre notifies and sets up the panels immediately,” said law minister C Ve Shanmugam. But, the opposition in   is not too happy. DMK working president M K Stalin said the AIADMK government did not exert pressure on the Centre to get a  , which would have been vested with all powers as mandated by the tribunal, set up. “The authority lacks power because the reservoirs are not under its control,” he said, demanding that the government release water in Mettur on June 12.
 
 
 Stakeholders are hopeful that the claims and counter-claims of deficit rainfall and empty reservoirs will become a thing of the past. While the irrigation season begins in June, any delay of water release by Karnataka can spoil the crop prospects for farmers. In the last decade, the sluices of the Mettur dam were opened in June only on two occasions for short term kuruvai. For several years, the sluices could not be opened due to poor or no water releases from Karnataka.
 
 If one goes by the monthly delivery as per the tribunal award, the state received the stipulated quantum for June only six times in the last 25 years. The water releases doubled during the months when the northeast monsoon was active over Tamil Nadu. “Now, the water has to be released on a monthly basis as per the tribunal award as modified by the court on February 16. Tamil Nadu will get 177.25tmcft in a normal year,” advocate G   said. Distress caused by poor water flows during the period will be henceforth shared by the riparian states of Karnataka, Kerala and Puducherry besides Tamil Nadu.
 
 “I am happy now,” said Cauvery Delta Farmers Welfare Association general secretary  . “We have an authority that will maintain an account of cropping pattern, crop coverage and weekly and monthly water demand for each state, based on which water distribution will be calculated. There will not be any issues if this account is properly maintained. Drawal of water can be controlled if there is rain. No doubt it is a very big responsibility for the authority,” said Ranganathan, who is the original petitioner in the Cauvery dispute. He expressed hope that the Cauvery bodies would maintain excellent relationship and perfect understanding with the riparian states.
 
