KOCHI: Apartments owners’ associations are at their wits end after several incidents in which taps were left open by residents who go on vacation, resulting in wastage of thousands of litres of water, came to light.

 “There are many residents who are on vacation and identifying the culprit will be a daunting task. Unless the apartment gets flooded and the water enters the corridor it will not be possible for the officebearers to fix the responsibility on a resident,” said PAM  , organizing secretary Apartment Owners’ Apex Association.
 
 When the families forget to close the taps in kitchens and bathrooms, the potable water supplied to such apartments go down the drain and they cannot be even penalised. Rasheed said most of the apartment owners’ associations in Kerala are registered under   and Scientific Charitable Trust Act, 1955.
 
 “Hence, slapping fines and generating revenue for the association cannot be encouraged,” he added.
 
 But some apartments are mulling action against such criminal wastage of water.
 
 “When people act irresponsibly, apartment associations are forced to act and initiate penal measures. Once such families are identified, we have decided to impose the charges levied by tanker trucks on such residents. As ground water depletion has become a major concern tanker trucks find it difficult to source water for the city’s suburbs. Apartment complexes are largely dependent on water supplied by these trucks,” said  , an officer-bearer of an apartment complex at Elamkulam.
 
 The officer-bearers of many apartment complexes in the city said that it is practically impossible for them to go to each apartment and ask each resident to check whether their taps are closed.
 
 “We have been asking residents to ensure all taps are closed before they leave their homes,” said Krishnakumar.
 
 Drinking Water Tanker Trucks Welfare Association president   said that they charge around Rs 600 to Rs 700 for supplying water in trucks with a capacity of 6,000 litres.
 
 “The charges will vary depending on the distance travelled by the trucks. Moreover, the customer will have to pay the travel allowance for truck drivers,” he said.
 
 If the water is sourced from places far away from the city, the customers will be forced to shoulder the diesel prices.
 
