HYDERABAD: Critical bottlenecks have been detected along busy road stretches in the Secunderabad region, shows the traffic police data. Out of the 12 critical bottlenecks identified by city traffic cops, more than seven are located in Secunderabad.

 Localities around the Secunderabad railway station junction in particular, such as the Rathifile bus station near Alpha and Anand Bhavan hotels in Secunderabad, Saidabad, near Keys high school, between Rethibowli bus stop and Sangeeth theatre, near St John’s rotary and between   and Hyderabad Public School were found to be most congested even during non-peak hours.
 
 Old times of Secunderabad point out that many more areas
 
 have become congested due to rapid encroachment and haphazard parking of vehicles on main roads and bylanes.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 Residents identified the   main road, ECIL main road and   as few other gridlocked locations. “Roads in the Secunderabad region have become narrower due to rapid encroachments on both sides — including Anand Bagh main road in Safilguda, which is used by hundreds of commuters daily,” said Suresh Rao, a resident of Malkajgiri.
 
 “Another major cause for concern is the absolute lack of parking space in Secunderabad region due to which vehicles are parked on the roads haphazardly, blocking smooth movement of traffic. This menace must be curbed immediately. Once more government offices become operational in Secunderabad region, the traffic coming towards this area will increase manifold,” he added.
 
 Vijaynarayana C, another resident of   suggested widening existing junctions in order to ease traffic chaos. “It is due to the fact that the junctions are narrower than the roads that bottlenecks have developed in Secunderabad area. Junction widening must hence be carried out here,” said Vijaynarayana.
 
 The city traffic police’s ‘junction improvement’ plans, as per which signal-free, unmanned junctions, have been created by introducing two Uturns at either side of the intersection, have only made the congestion worse, said commuters.
 
 “Traffic cops, a few weeks ago, introduced several Uturns in place of junctions — causing severe inconvenience to commuters. While u-turns were introduced to ease traffic congestion, they themselves say there are now points of congestion on roads leading from Tarnaka to Sitaphalmandi and Secunderabad,” pointed out Shivali Krishna Raj, a resident of Tarnaka in Secunderabad.
 
 
