INDORE: The city lies heartbroken. As visuals of the horrific accident of a DPS bus played out on TV screens and grisly pictures and videos went viral, parents in every corner of Indore panicked.

 The way the bus was crushed, you couldn’t make out the route number. Every parent feared the worst. There was a rush for Bombay Hospital, where the dead and injured had been taken. A half-hour later, information trickled in and the haze lifted, but not the gloom. Families whose wards weren’t on the bus were shattered. The cloud of grief stretched across Indore. At Bombay Hospital, there was another kind of surge. A guard tried to shoo away a group of youngsters, who were frantic to enter the building. But when he heard their story, he stepped aside. The group was among the hundreds of Indoreans who flocked Bombay Hospital to donate blood after messages about shortage of O-ve and B-ve blood at the hospital went viral on social media. There was no heckling or jostling. Good Samaritans stood by, waiting to help, as wails of agony echoed in the lobby of the second and fourth floors of Bombay Hospital.
 
 While some children were brought to hospital in cars of passers-by, some came in ambulances. They were immediately shifted to ICU on the second floor where senior doctors began trying to save life and limb. Within minutes, families of the kids arrived. Till then, no one knew whose child had died, and whose survived. Heart-rending scenes played out as families, who were waiting to welcome their children home just a few minutes earlier, realized they had to take them back dead.
 
 As emotions ran high, police officers and station in-charges began manning the entrance doors on all floors and restricting entry of people. Counsellors and women police officers were roped in to take care of the distraught parents. Most of the family members reached the hospital in a state of panic and claimed that they were not informed by the school about the accident.
 
 With hundreds of people crowding in front of the ICU, the parents couldn’t understand where their children were admitted. They all had one question: Is my child alive? The parents of the four dead kids collapsed in tears. And the families of the injured were seen thanking god and praying that they pull through. Many of the injured are in critical condition.
 
 A strong posse from Lasudia and Kanadia police stations was deployed at DPS to avoid any untoward incident, and Bombay Hospital square was barricaded to prevent the surge of people arriving at the medical facility to enquire about the condition of the injured.
 
 A female doctor from the school, who had come to help out the accident victims, was allowed to enter the ICU to examine the children. She came out in a state of shock. “Children come rushing to us even if they receive minor scratches. I can’t imagine how they must be undergoing this trauma. I hope they recover soon and may God give peace to the families of those who were killed,” said the doctor, tears rolling down her eyes.
 
 FATE KEPT HER ALIVE
 
 Eleven-year-old Swastik Pandya’s elder sister had a narrow escape as she missed the ill-fated school bus. Swastik’s father works in an Odisha-based company and his mother is a teacher with Mata Gujri Public School. DIG Harinarayanachari Mishra said that the entire family was supposed to shift to Odisha after end of the academic session. The death shook the family.
 
 NO ACTION AGAINST DRIVER DESPITE PLAINTS
 
 A 35-year-old woman, mother of a Class 8 student of DPS, was seen shouting at school teachers. She accused them of not initiating action against the driver even after receiving complaints against him. The woman claimed that a month ago her daughter was dropped home by the driver and conductor in the bus without the presence of any teacher or school staff. She approached the principal but no action was taken. Her daughter and friends had also told her that the driver used to drive the vehicle rashly. “The school administration is to be blamed. They should have initiated strict actions against the driver. This incident could have been averted,” said the woman who did not wish to be named.
 
 PLIGHT OF A FATHER
 
 Manoj Bajaj, father of Bhumi, 11, and Khushi, 7, who had met with an accident a month ago, reached hospital with plasters in both his hands. The family members claimed that even when he was advised bed rest by doctors, Bajaj couldn’t stop himself after he came to know about the incident. “One of my daughters is critical,” Bajaj told TOI.
 
 HUGE CROWD AT HOSPITAL
 
 Thousands of residents reached Bombay Hospital to donate blood after the message about the accident circulated on social media. Many of them had wrong information that over a dozen children were killed in the accident. All were ready to donate blood. Hospital management had to make announcements on in-house speakers that they did not require blood. Huge police staff including senior police officials was stationed at the gates and main entrance of the hospital to prevent people from entering. Bombay hospital square had to be barricaded and traffic jam was also witnessed on Ring Road for over three hours in the evening. People also reached the crime spot at Bicholi Mardana where the wrecked school bus was stationed.
 
 MARKETS TO REMAIN CLOSED
 
 Death of four children in the accident sent shockwaves across the city. Expressing solidarity with the bereaved families, market associations have decided to keep their establishments shut. The Siyaganj Wholesale Kirana Association came out with a communiqué expressing grief over the deaths and said that all its members will keep the shops closed till 2pm on Saturday. Ahilya Chamber of Commerce president Ramesh Khandelwal also aligned himself with the decision and claimed that all members of the association stand in solidarity with the families and pray for speedy recovery of the injured.
 
 ORGAN DONATION BY DECEASED’S FAMILIES
 
 Three of the deceased kids gave new lease of life to six persons as their families donated their corneas – a gesture that was appreciated by Indoreans who take pride in the organ donation campaigns that brought it to limelight. Members of Indore Society for Organ Donation told reporters that corneas of Swastik Pandya, Kruti Agarwal and Shruti Ludhiyani were sent to eye banks. Skin of Swastik and Kruti were also harvested and sent to skin bank.
 
 SCHOOLS TO HOLD SPECIAL PRAYERS FOR THE VICTIMS
 
 Several schools declared a holiday on Saturday, as a mark of respect for the departed souls. Sahodaya School Association chairperson Archana Sharma told TOI that this is the time when everyone needs to be together. “We have decided that special prayers will be held at all the schools and the drivers, conductors and the helpers will also join the students in prayers.” Principal of Sri Sathya Sai Higher Secondary School sent a message, “We condole the death of the children who lost their lives in the tragic accident on Friday. May their souls rest in peace. School will remain closed on Saturday.” Association of Unaided CBSE schools president Anil Dhupar said, “All affiliated schools of the association will remain closed on Saturday.”
 
 ACCIDENT MAKES COLLECTOR ACTIVATE WEB PORTAL
 
 Jagruk Indore - a web portal designed by district administration to ensure safety of schools will now be used to prevent such accidents. District collector Nishant Warwade said the portal designed to enforce directives issued by Supreme Court regarding safety of school children could have averted the accident. “We will try to start using the portal from tomorrow,” Warwade said. Speaking about the portal during an interaction with mediapersons around four months ago, the collector had said that the portal is an attempt to use technology to ensure safety of children in school bus. “The portal is designed to help monitoring of fitness of school buses, its regulation of traffic rules and enforcement of Section 144 of CrPC issued in this regard” the collector had explained.
 
 
