HYDERABAD:   government has enacted the new Panchayat Raj Act mainly to bring qualitative change and strengthen the Panchayat Raj set-up, chief minister   said. He said for the past few decades, the PR set-up was destroyed mainly by politicians and political parties. CM said the time has come to introspect on the pathetic conditions in the panchayats.

 “We politicians were responsible for the destruction of the Panchayat Raj set up in the state. Though there are 1.3 lakh elected representatives in the local bodies, the sitution in the panchayats did not improve. Generally, elections at the panchayat level are held on a non-party basis, but it has become a practice to link candidates to political parties. In this manner, the system was bulldozed systematically and now crores are being spent for the sarpanch elections. There is a need to change the existing system,”   said, while replying in the assembly to a discussion on the PR Act which was passed by the   earlier in the day. He dismissed allegations made by opposition parties that the bill was introduced in a hurry without properly studying the issues. “The exercise was started two years ago and thousands of people including retired officers were consulted. Many provisions were incoporated for bettering the PR system,” he said.
 
 CM added that with the formation of new panchayats, their total number would touch 12,751. Of them, 2,637 panchayats would be under the control of scheduled tribes. The state government would give ?2,500 crore this year for both panchayats and urban local bodies. Even a small panchayat with 300 population, would get Rs 3 lakh funds a year.
 
 KCR said the TRS government was strengthening the PR set up in the state systematically by taking care of the drinking water, electricity and irrigation requirements. Sanitation and plantation are the primary duties of the gram panchayats. The responsibility of water supply has been taken from the panchayats, since all of them would be provided drinking water through Mission Bhagiratha in the next three months.
 
 He informed that non-performing sarpanchs and panchayat secretaries would be removed by the district collectors. Criticising the Centre for keeping some departments which are not directly related to them, KCR said: “I told   finance minister   that it is not proper to link the POS machine and Aadhaar for providing fertilizers to farmers. This has only brought more hardship to the farmer.”
 
