Ludhiana: For Dharminder Kumar, Thursday might be the worst day of his life as he lost one family member and four others were critically injured in the LPG cyclinder blast on Thursday. Dharminder had a narrow escaped as he had gone to fetch milk when the blast happened. His brother Ashok Yadav, sister-in-law Sunita, two nieces Kajal and Pooja and one nephew Raj were admitted to CMCH with serious burns. Sunita later succumbed to her injuries.

 Dharminder said usually he did not go out to bring milk, but on Thursday his brother asked him to get it. He said there was no electricity in the area since 6.15am and when he came out of the house, his sister-in-law was in kitchen to prepare tea and breakfast for the family members. Kumar said by the time he returned, there was chaos all over and people were standing on the road in large numbers. They informed him that many people got injured in the incident.
 
 Battling tears, he said area residents told him about his family members who were seriously injured in the blast. Dharminder claimed the civil hospital authorities did not tell him that all his family members had been shifted to CMCH. “I do not have any child and I love the children of my brother,” he said.
 
 Meanwhile, Malti, whose husband was injured while helping the family, has been unable to control her tears since the incident. Malti said, “We lived in the adjoining street and my husband Rakesh Kumar had gone to the spot when requested by some person from the area. He had gone to help the family.” She said her son Rajan and brother-in-law Uttam also went to the spot. They were also injured in the incident. She said one more relative Laxman was also injured.
 
 Kamlesh Kumar, who was on duty at a factory at the time of the incident, also waited for news about his family members who were injured in the incident. “My mother Aganya Devi and wife Meena Devi along with my sister-in-law Anjum Devi were injured in the incident as they were standing outside the house when the blast took place. Now nobody is telling about their exact status,” he said.
 
 The injured
 
 The injured have been identified as Ashok Yadav (58), owner of the house, his daughters Kajal (19) and Pooja (20) and son Raj (13); Yaswant Singh (43); Shashi Singh (36); Shashi Kant Pandey (25); Gobind (40); Ramnaresh (42); Surinder (28); Kamlesh Giri (35); Bittu (11); Rajan (23); Uttam (18); Amit (18); Rakesh Kumar (43); Dharminder Singh (28); Anjun Devi (24); Varinder (34); Amarnath (40); Shivam (14); Mamta (28); Shiv Sharma (13); Aehania Yadav (50); Meena Devi (27); Parmod Parsad; Mahommad Ali (32); Pawan Kumar (30); Laxman (53); Anupan Kumar; Ashok Kumar; Shubham (13); and Prince Kumar (7).
 
 
