BARGARH: A group of cancer survivors in   district on Thursday demanded establishment of a cancer hospital in Bargarh. The western Odihsa district has a very high number of  .

 The Fighters Group, Bargarh has also decided to submit memorandum to the Odisha chief minister,   over the demand on May 14. The decision has been taken in the meeting of the organisation.
 
 Secretary of the organisation, Bijankanti Mishra said, a large number of cancer cases are reported in the state every year. Of the total number of cases, more than 60% cancer patients are from Western Odisha and majority of the patients of Western Odisha are from Bargarh district. The district report a large number of stomach cancer cases.
 
 He said, the people here depend on agriculture for livelihood. Heavy use of pesticide could be the possible reason for the growing incidence of the cancer in Bargarh. Since majority of the population of the district depend on agriculture, the financial condition of the people is also not sound.
 
 The treatment of cancer is very expensive and many people of the district do not have the financial condition to afford the treatment. If a cancer hospital is set up here in the district, the people of this region will be able to avail treatment, he added.
 
 The state government has signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the TATA Trust to set up a state-of-the-art cancer treatment and research hospital in the state. Since Bargarh district report highest number of cancer patients, we would request the Odisha Chief Minister to set up the cancer treatment and research hospital in Bargarh by submitting a memorandum on May 14. We would also appeal the members of various social organisations and people of Bargarh to extend support to the cause, said Mishra.
 
 Assistant professor, Department of Radiotherapy, Biswaranjan Routray said, there is no district-wise report on number of cancer patients. So we cannot say that Baargarh district reports highest number of cancer patients.
 
 However, he said, pesticide is a reason behind cancer. This apart, industrial discharge is also a reason behind the disease. He also informed that the number of female cancer patients is more than the number of male cancer patients in Western Odisha.
 
 Around 8,000 new cancer cases are reported in Acharya Harihar Regional Cancer Centre every year. Similarly, around 1000 new cancer cases are reported each at VIMSAR, Burla and MKCG Medical College and Hospital, Berhampur every year. 
 
  
 
