BATHINDA: Taking note of the failure of Punjab’s   of forest (hills) to appear before it on Monday, the   ( ) has issued warrants against him for March 1.

 Now, the CCF (hills) Harsh   has been asked to appear on March 1 for allegedly violating NGT orders issued on May 19, 2016, pertaining to ban on felling trees in Punjab, said Punjab additional advocate general  .
 
 The NGT, on the last hearing on February 19, had asked Kumar to appear before it on February 26, to reply about the letters he wrote to some developers in January 2018, saying that they may start developmental activity in some area falling under the Punjab Land Preservation Act (PLPA) after February 3, when the notification was to lapse. 
 
 The state government had reissued the notification, continuing the ban on any activity on the land under the PLPA even after February 3, 2018. In a February 23 request sent to the NGT, Kumar sought exemption from the NGT hearing, saying that his father, aged 90, had to undergo a medical checkup on February 26 and 27, so he should be granted a date in the first week of March.
 
 However, Longowal resident Dr Amandeep Agarwal filed a petition before the NGT objecting to the CCF (hills) writing the letters, which, he said, would have led to deforestation. Taking it up, the NGT on May 19, 2016 had imposed ban on felling of trees.
 
 Immediately after the issue of letters written by Kumar came up, the state government transferred him to another post. However, the senior Indian Forest Services officer moved   (CAT) against the transferred order. The CAT had stayed the government order.
 
 On February 23, the state forest department had distanced itself from letters written by the CCF (hills) about development activity in area under the PLPA. Principal chief conservator of forests Jatinder Sharma had filed an affidavit before the NGT making it clear that if any officer by an act of omission or commission commits contempt of court then the said officer alone was responsible for such act because he acted on his own without any instructions from higher authorities.
 
 The principal chief conservator wrote that all the letters enclosed with the miscellaneous application issued by Kumar had been cancelled vide letter No. 5664 on January 30, 2018.
 
 Punjab additional advocate general Kamaljeet Singh said as Kumar failed to appear on Monday the NGT has issued warrants for March 1.
 
 
