GAYA: The continuation of the practice of open defecation at the Anugrah Narayan Magadh Medical College and Hospital (ANMMCH),   and several other government hospitals have made virtual mockery of the much publicized   of the Centre and equally trumpeted ‘Saat Nishchay’ programme of the state government.

 ANMMCH is the only tertiary hospital in the Magadh division comprising  , Aurangabad, Nawada, Jahanabad and Arwal districts with a combined population of about one crore.
 
 Patients from Chhatra and Koderma districts of Jharkhand also visit ANMMCH on account of its proximity compared to the Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences at Ranchi. Lady Elgin Hospital, renamed as  , is also the only all-women hospital in south   after formation of Jharkhand.
 
 Sources said open defecation also attracts pigs to the hospital premises. Pigs are regarded as the carriers of   and Acute Encephalitis Syndrome, the two deadly diseases that generally get spread after rainy season.
 
 Though there are at least 76 toilets on the ANMMCH premises for patients and attendants, most of these are non-functional on account of non-maintenance. The few functional toilets are not properly cleaned, thereby rendering these virtually unusable. The hospital management is dependent on the Public Health and Engineering Department for the repair/renovation of these toilets.
 
 Acknowledging the incidence of open air defecation in the ANMMCH, its superintendent Dr Sudhir Kumar Sinha said the hospital administration was addressing the issue with all seriousness and repair/renovation work was being done and the entire exercise was in different stages of completion.
 
 Besides repair and renovation of the existing toilets, India Power, the private company having power supply franchise for Gaya town,   and Manpur areas of the district, has shown interest in additional toilet construction as part of its corporate social responsibility (CSR) programme. Land near the gynaecology ward of the hospital has been identified for toilet construction for the purpose, the superintendent said.
 
 Lady Elgin Hospital comes under the administrative control of the civil surgeon. When contacted, civil surgeon Dr Rajindra Prasad said on Monday he was busy in an official meeting.
 
 
