In an unprecedented move, the Andhra Pradesh   has issued a notice to the Commissioner of Police,  , based on a complaint filed by animal rights activist  . The notice was slapped in connection with a November 2017 case, for not taking appropriate action on a previous complaint filed by the activists against   ABC workers from Arilova, for dumping dog carcasses illegally at a dump yard. 

 Back then, the animal activists had claimed that the police had refused to file an FIR at first and conducted the post mortem only 28 hours after the dogs were found. “When we initially made a complaint at the police station after the issue had occurred, it was against the GVMC. But the FIR was filed weeks after the incident, and the post-mortem reports were to come in three months’ time. Later, the Arilova police stated that a post-mortem could not be carried out on the dogs because the GVMC and the Animal Husbandry Department hadn’t cooperated. Now, the dogs have long been buried and no one knows where the organs that were taken from them in lieu of a post mortem went. Even after six months, the police officials haven’t taken any appropriate action regarding the case. This is a cognizable offence and any citizen of the country has the right to file a complaint against any unlawful action a police official takes,” says Jagu Suresh, adding, “After this incident was reported by   Times (see inset), I gathered other evidences that we had, and approached the state Human Rights Commission. I also filed an online complaint in the NHRC." 
 
 Based on HR Case no. 1235/2018, the state HRC has issued a notice to the Commissioner of Police, a copy of which was shared with Suresh. “The notice says that a detailed report must be submitted to the commission before July 10, 2018, by 10:30 AM.” 
 
 However, getting his complaint lodged wasn’t easy, says Suresh, who along with activists Dr Tripta Kaur and Pramod Kumar had caught the GVMC workers redhanded.
 
 “In my complaint, I had clearly mentioned that the victims were the dogs. However, they ended up filing two wrong complaints in which both the victim and complainant was me. after making numerous calls and sending mails explaining the issue, a third complaint was finally registered on April 4 with the correct details,” says Suresh.
 
  Suresh explains that he took this step, not just for the animals’ right, but also to prove a point that our legal system has all the provisions to safeguard animal rights. “Someone filing a complaint on behalf of animals was new even for the State HRC too. I do not know if the dead dogs will ever justice, but I now have faith that the police is answerable at least. Our police is usually negligent when it comes to animal issues. That should change.”
 
 
 
 “Human rights commission can be approached about animal issues, but this is something that many don’t know. As per the law, humans have the right to serve animals and nature; it is a basic human right to protect the environment. It is a fundamental duty to have compassion for all living creatures. When people like us try to protect animals and the authorities abuse and harass us in return, we have the right to approach the HRC,” informs Suresh.
 
 
 
 "We haven’t gotten the notice yet; maybe we will get it in the next 15 days. So far though, we haven’t received any intimation of the same. There’s time till July for us to respond; so sometimes there’s a delay in the dispatching of the notice too. Once we receive the notice, we will determine what action needs to be taken and file the required report. "
 
