Thiruvananthapuram: Capital city will host the state’s first ever international   for children. The week-long festival will begin on May 14. 

 The festival is organized by Kerala State Council for Child Welfare in association with Kerala State Chalachithra Academy, State Film Development Corporation and State Institute of Children’s Literature. Five major theatres in the city will be used for screening 140 feature films and selected documentaries. 
 
 Along with other delegates, children from orphanages and tribal villages in the state will also be part of the festival. 
 
 “Students from tribal villages and orphanages will be our guests. Their accommodation and travel will be arranged by the organizers. Along with the festival, there will be workshops to introduce students to different areas of cinema,” said Palliyara Sreedharan, director, State Institute of Children’s Literature. 
 
 The festival will be modelled on IFFK and each theatre will screen four movies per day. 4,000 delegate passes will be issued at Rs 150 per pass. In addition, there will be passes to watch movie for a day. 
 
 Open forum and meet the director events will also be organized, said Mahesh Panju, secretary, Kerala State Chalachitra Academy. As part of the festival, child artists who acted in films during different periods will be honoured. 
 
 An organizing committee with CM Pinarayi Vijayan as chief patron was formed for the conduct of the festival. Finance minister Thomas Isaac, social justice minister K K Shylaja, cultural minister A K Balan, education minister C Raveendranath, tourism minister Kadakampalli Surendran, film director Kamal and actor Madhu will be the other patrons. 
 
 Mukesh MLA is the chairman of the organizing committee. KTDC chairman M Vijayakumar has been elected as the working chairman and S P Deepak, general secretary of State Council for Child Welfare has been elected as the general convenor of the film festival. 15 sub committees will be arranged for the smooth conduct of the festival.
 
 
