GHAZIABAD: Former Rajya Sabha MP   was sentenced to 3.5 years in jail by a court on Saturday on charges of abetting the suicide of his daughter-in-law Himanshi. Additional district judge (I) Shashi Bhushan Pandey also imposed a fine of Rs 10,000 to be paid by Kashyap, failing which his sentence will be extended by another three months.

 Kashyap’s wife Devenderi too has been given the same sentence — 3.5 years in jail and a fine of Rs 10,000. 
 
 On January 24, the court had convicted Kashyap, his wife Devenderi and their son Sagar for abetting the suicide of Himanshi who was found dead inside a washroom of the family’s residence in Sanjay Nagar, Ghaziabad, with a gunshot wound on her head.
 
 Sagar was sentenced to seven years’ rigorous imprisonment on January 25 apart from a fine of Rs 50,000. However, taking a lenient view on the pleas of Kashyap’s lawyers that he has a clean political track record and his wife suffers from cancer, the court has ordered simple imprisonment to the couple.
 
 “We will challenge the judgment in Allahabad high court next week. Nowhere during the trial has the prosecution found any evidence that the deceased had been provoked to commit suicide. The police did not chargesheet the three under Section 306 of IPC which pertains to abetment of suicide. The three have been acquitted of charges of cruelty under Section 498A which had been there in the police chargesheet. There is no ground for abetting suicide when the charge of cruelty has been ruled out,” Kashyap’s lawyer Subash Tyagi told TOI.
 
 The defence lawyers had also pleaded for a lenient sentence for the two because Himanshi’s minor son is being brought up under the care of Devenderi, a cancer patient, apart from the fact that Narendra Kashyap does not have any past criminal history. 
 
 The police submitted Narendra Kashyap’s criminal record on Saturday. A three-member team of doctors constituted by the chief medical officer, also submitted a report on the nature and extent of Devenderi’s illness.
 
 Until their conviction by the court, the three accused had been out on bail given to them by Allahabad high court. The three were arrested on April 7, 2016 by Ghaziabad police, a day after Himanshi was found shot dead with a .32 bore licenced revolver.
 
 Narendra Kashyap, who was elected to the Rajya Sabha on a BSP ticket, had switched over to the BJP in January 2017 a few months after the end of his tenure. 
 
 Himanshi’s father, Hiralal, a BSP strongman from Badaun, had also joined the BJP along with Narendra Kashyap.
 
 
