The energy in the EDM music scene of Hyderabad has dampened, as the city lost one of its senior most music artistes,   Rao this week. After a vibrant career of over 15 years, Shekar lost his life to an internal haemorrhage in his brain, which experts say could have been due to the erratic lifestyle of the 37-year-old. Whatever be the reason for his untimely death, the city’s party crowd says that his loss has left a dent in the music scene here.
Remembered fondly as a shy, soft spoken guy —a contradiction to the popular image of DJs —Shekar’s friends and fans have been flooding social media pages with poignant tributes. “He never got into controversies; neither did he have a wild life. He was a simple guy,” recounts  , who was his junior in the industry. “When I was a newcomer, I used to go see how senior artistes did their gigs, and Shekar’s style of mixing music at a high tempo was something all of us looked forward to back then. He brought his own touch, but at the same time ensured that the taste of his hosts and the crowd was taken into consideration,” adds Sharon.
 Shekar’s childhood friend and prominent Dj, Murthy aka DJ Murthuvoic has similar memories. “I knew him since our college days — we did our graduation together at Bhavan’s college in Sainikpuri. He was an extremely talented guy both in music and dance. In fact, just last year when we met at Vizag for a gig, we happened to miss our flights. So we spent a whole day ambling around, musing about music and life. I’ll treasure those memories forever,” says Murthy.
 
 
 
 His close friend, DJ   recounts his sudden ailment and fight in the hospital. “He was about to drop his son to school, when he felt dizzy and sat down on the bed. After a while, his wife found him unconscious. He was rushed to the hospital where the doctors found out that he had a 45 per cent block which affected his brain stem. He lost his sensations. 
 His condition was unusual for a 37-year-old. In fact doctors were shocked. But he had started showing signs of recovery towards the beginning of this year. like a true fighter, he fought it out for a long time. But then he suffered three successive cardiac arrests in a span of six hours and breathed his last on January 6,” adds an emotional   was also a fighter in true sense for having pushed international dance music into a conservative market like Hyderabad. “The local market was dominated by remixes, chart music and   for local flavour. At that time he dared to push good music, EDM and international dance music into the market,” recounts DJ Murthovic, adding, “He pushed the envelope. EDM, which was a sub culture back then became mainstream largely thanks to his efforts.”   agrees, “When techno music was new in the city, Shekar developed himself into a master of the genre. He was also part of many international gigs. His music and he will be missed forever”
 
