GHAZIABAD: Three Delhi residents working for a courier company hired by   to deliver goods have been arrested for allegedly fleecing the e-retail company of around Rs 10 lakh over the past three months.

 Police said the three accused, who worked as delivery boys, would order computer hardware products online. They would then replace the original products with either duplicate ones or goods of a cheaper brand and send the consignment back to the company saying the customer could not be located.
 
 The three men — Raju Arora, Rinku Gaur and Asif Ahmed — were arrested from near   on Sunday. Computer external hard drives worth Rs 2.5 lakh were recovered from their possession, the police said.
 
 The gang was being run by one Sumit Gupta, a resident of   in Delhi’s Lajpat Nagar, who is on the run.
 
 SHO, Link Road, Jai Prakash Chaubey explained the modus operandi of the fraud. “Gupta used to employ delivery boys to work for Flipkart. The three men would place bulk orders on fake addresses using SIM cards procured through forged documents. They would opt for ‘cash on delivery’ and ensure the consignments fell in their area of operation.”
 
 “They would then make a call to the person posing as the customer, who would ask for the order to be either cancelled or delivered at a later date,” the officer added. 
 
 Flipkart rules require the product to be sent back to the company in such a situation. The three delivery boys would send the package back, but only after the products inside had been replaced.
 
 The SHO said Gupta paid Rs 10,000 for each consignment to the delivery boy concerned and Rs 1,000 to the person posing as the customer. The fraud was detected after Flipkart noticed a pattern in the kind of products that were being returned. They conducted an internal inquiry and then approached the Link Road police station, an official said. 
 
 Nishant Mehra, assistant manager (security) of Flipkart, said: “The company has now directed its courier partners to conduct a thorough background check of their employees. It has also decided to deliver bulk orders through the ‘cash on delivery’ mode only after establishing the identity of consumers.”
 
 
