Mysuru: As the date for the swearing-in of JD(S) state president   as the next chief minister of Karnataka draws closer, legislators from the Old Mysuru region – where the party managed to regain its supremacy over the Congress – are likely to get ministerial berths.

 On the back of an impressive showing at the hustings in Mysuru, Mandya and Hassan, JD(S), which is the junior partner in the alliance it has stitched up with the Congress, will look to consolidate its hold on the region, which has traditionally been its stronghold, and handing out cabinet berths to MLAs from these districts is being seen as a step towards achieving this.
 
 While senior leaders  , who beat former chief minister Siddaramaiah in a high-profile battle for the Chamundeshwari segment, and   are likely to be inducted into the cabinet to represent Mysuru, Melukote MLA   (Mandya), HD Revanna (Hassan) are the other legislators likely to be allotted ministerial portfolios. Meanwhile, Maddur MLA DC Thammanna, Sa Ra Mahesh (KR Nagar) are also vying for plum posts. In Hassan, the home district of JD(S) supremo and former Prime Minister HD Deve Gowda, AT Ramaswamy of Arkalgud, KM Shivalinge Gowda, a third-time MLA from Arsikere and former minister HK Kumaraswamy (Sakleshpur) are in contention for a place in the cabinet.
 
 Karnataka president of the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) N Mahesh, who won the Kollegal seat, could be allotted a cabinet post since the party had a pre-poll alliance with the JD(S).
 
 Considering the proximity to the Lok Sabha polls, the process of constituting the cabinet takes on immense significance since it could help JD(S) strengthen its position in the Old Mysuru region and the Malnad belt. Presently, among the 12 Lok Sabha seats in the two regions, BJP has six, while the JD(S) has just two – Mandya and Hassan. Congress, on the other hand, has four.
 
 Of the 37 seats that the JD(S) has won in the assembly elections, the party bagged 21 in Mysuru, Mandya, Hassan and Ramanagara districts, while the BSP managed to secure its lone victory in Chamarajanagar.
 
 GT Devegowda said that the party leadership was working on the issue. “Kumaraswamy will expand his ministry after passing the floor test on Thursday,” he said, admitting that he was in the race for a ministerial berth.
 
 Puttaraju, who defeated Darshan Puttannaiah, son of late farmer leader KS Puttannaiah in Melukote, confirmed to TOI that would be part of Kumaraswamy’s cabinet. “My portfolio will be finalised after a meeting between JD(S) and Congress leaders. However, date for the oath-taking ceremony of the ministers has not been decided yet,” he added.
 
 BSP state chief Mahesh said, “We will be part of the new coalition government. The decision of those who will take their oath along with Kumaraswamy on Wednesday is pending. JD(S) leadership has assured us of inducting BSP into the cabinet. We are hopeful.”
 
 Meanwhile, the JD(S) is expected to allow Congress to choose legislators from the Malnad districts of Chikkamagaluru, Shivamogga and Kodagu, as ministers. There are reports in political circles of Narasimharaja constituency MLA and former minister Tanveer Sait likely getting the nod. All seven Muslim MLAs elected to the assembly are from the Congress.
 
 
