NAGPUR: In a move that apparently defeats the purpose of building the   (ORR), the state government has approved residential zones on its either side in the development plan of metro region. Activists claim it would turn ORR into accident prone zone like   (IRR).

 The state’s urban development department has approved the development plan (DP) and development control regulations (DCR) of metro region covering 3,567 sq.km area in 721 villages of nine tehsils recently. Three types of provisions for residential use have been made in the plan.
 
 One of the three provisions is residential zone/belt 250 metres from ORR on both sides. It is approved as corridor development. The   (NMRDA) will recover premium for giving permission to residential structures in this zone. NMRDA will decide the premium in coming days.
 
 ORR with a total length of 119km is being developed by the Central and state governments as bypass to the city. Works on 61km stretch are going on. Total expense of ORR is likely to be over Rs 2,500 crore. IRR was developed as bypass to the city so heavy vehicles could pass without entering the city. Thanks to development along it, it became like any other city road.
 
 President of farmers organization Jai Jawan Jai Kisan Prashant   said it was an unfortunate decision to develop residential zones on sides of ORR. “City sees large number of accidents on IRR. There are several areas in metro region that could be developed as residential zones. It seems NMRDA and government want to benefit some people possessing land along ORR and are putting human life at risk for that. Some big housing schemes and commercial establishments have cropped up along ORR in an unauthorized manner. It is also a way to regularize these unauthorized developments,” he said.
 
 Pawar alleged it was among big mistakes committed by private agency  . “75% of draft of DP prepared by Halcrow has got revised. NMRDA itself proposed 1,160 changes of which government accepted 939. Government made 285 changes on its own on which suggestions and objections have been submitted. Still, NMRDA is paying in crores to Halcrow. Payments made to Halcrow should be recovered,” he demanded.
 
 NMRDA official said 250 metres on either side of ORR has good potential for development of residential areas. “NMRDA will get good revenue due to premium and that can be utilized for development of metro region,” he said.
 
 
