BENGALURU: An Australian woman has alleged that gold ornaments worth Rs 5 lakh were stolen from her when she visited Bengaluru six months ago to attend her brother’s marriage at Hulimavu, southeast Bengaluru.

 BIAL police said they have registered a theft case based on the email complaint they received on January 20 from  , a resident of   in North Hobart, Tasmania, Australia.
 
 Maria explained that she came to Bengaluru from   on a   flight and landed here around 11.40pm on June 22, 2017. But two pieces of her luggage were missing and sent by the airlines to her brother’s residence in Jayanti Nagar Extension, Hulimavu, two days later. Maria said she was shocked to find empty jewellery boxes in the luggage. 
 
 “A cab driver handed over the two bags to me around 10am on June 24, 2017 at my brother’s house. I found that my gold jewellery weighing 164.78gm and worth Rs 5 lakh was missing,” she said in her complaint.
 
 “Preliminary inquiry revealed that she had not declared the jewellery with the airlines though it is mandatory to do so. Malaysian airlines officials said they sent two bags to the customer without opening them and were not aware of the gold ornaments as she had not given any declaration while travelling to Bengaluru,” a police officer said.
 
 “We don’t have much information about the complainant’s brother, who works in Bengaluru as a software engineer. She has provided his contact number. We will summon him to the station to gather more details,” he added.
 
 According to Maria’s complaint, three necklace sets with earrings weighing 89.236gm; engagement ring with LJ symbol weighing 12gm; two chains for children weighing 26gm; two earrings weighing 4gm; two bangles weighing 12.18gm; two rings weighing 5.751gm; three small rings (children) weighing 9gm; one heart pendant with letter ‘F’ weighing 3gm and a broken stud earring set weighing 3gm have gone missing.
 
 “We need some more details, including documents of the stolen ornaments, for the probe to proceed,” a cop said.
 
