KOLKATA: The traffic guard at the Chingrighata crossing is going to be shifted, finally, making way for a pier of the New Garia-Airport Metro corridor. The traffic guard will be relocated below the Maa flyover on E M Bypass, opposite Silver Spring complex.

 Officials at KMDA, which is in charge of EM Bypass, said the   traffic guard was likely to be shifted in another month, following which the one-storey structure would be demolished. This razing will clear around 300m of the viaduct—on which the tracks will be laid—paving the way for a Metro station supposed to come up near Nicco Park. Also, when the construction of the piers at the Chingrighata crossing begins, the   and   will have to draft an elaborate traffic diversion plan.
 
 The Beliaghata traffic guard unit has to be shifted from the spot as it was built after the Metro alignment was notified in 2011. Rail Vikas Nigam Limited (RVNL), the executing agency of the 34km Metro corridor along E M Bypass, connecting Sonarpur with Dum Dum airport, has been lobbying with the state for the demolition of the concrete structure for the past one year. Finally on April 9, at a meeting between KMDA and RVNL officials, it was decided that the traffic guard would be shifted out by May-end. The traffic guard’s new address is being built under the Maa flyover at the the   crossing on Bypass, just at the end of its jurisdiction. From there, the guard’s administration extends till Narkeldanga Main Road, beyond   stadium. “The traffic guard needs to be shifted within its jurisdiction. So the spot below the Maa flyover, opposite Silver Spring, has been selected. Two small structures have been built for the purpose. RVNL has been asked to build a mess for the cops at the traffic guard,” a KMDA official said.
 
 Once the existing traffic guard structure is pulled down, Pier 317 of the New Garia-Airport Metro will come up right on the plot. Pier 318, which is supposed to come up in the middle of the Chingrighata crossing, can’t be built unless the construction of Pier 317 is completed. These two piers are crucial to the Metro link as the viaduct will run along the Ultadanga flank, turn towards Nicco Park and then into New Town, ending at the airport. The viaduct construction at the entry of New Town is currently in news following the demolition of five buildings, which encroached on the alignment, stalling the construction of a 1.45km stretch of the viaduct.
 
 RVNL executive director Rajesh Prasad said, “The matter has been pending since June last year. It’s good news the dispute has been solved. Such delays wreak havoc on the cost and timing of the project.”
 
