VISAKHAPATNAM: With a sudden rise in reported accidents during cycle rallies by TDP leaders across the state, chief minister N   is said to have ordered an   inquiry to probe the reason. 

 
 Some leaders reportedly took ill during the cycle rallies. Sources said that the CM is keen on knowing whether these accidents are real or are staged to seek sympathy from the party and earn a ticket for upcoming elections.
 
 Eluru MP Maganti Babu had fainted because of a sunstroke during a cycle rally. Government whip,  , from  , and Dharmavaram MLA, Suryanarayana also suffered sunstroke.
 
 On Wednesday, state minister C Ayyanna Patrudu's son, and Ayyanna Yuvasena president, Vijay met with an accident. His left hand was fractured. There were genuine incidents and a few incidents with local leaders were raising doubts, sources said. 
 
 According to sources, a series of incidents took place during cycle yatras, which TDP leaders had organised across the state demanding special status to  , attracted Naidu's attention. 
 
 Intelligence officials are said to be gathering inputs about these incidents. They are enquiring whether the incident was genuine or the leaders were trying to seek the party's attention. An intelligence official, on condition of anonymity, confirmed that they are gathering inputs about the incidents.
 
 A senior leader in AP TDP, said, "We came to know that there will not be any increase in number of assembly seats. So, the competition for tickets will be more, and that leaders will try to attract the party president's attention by various means. Gathering the inputs of the incident will give a correct picture, and also give a chance to allot ticket to genuine leaders." 
 
 CM Naidu has been always depended on reports and surveys, and has already pressed some teams to gather inputs about selection of candidates for the next elections. The teams have been interacting with the public through phone, and asking them questions about potential candidates. 
 
 After knowing all these methods of their party president, some of the leaders are searching for short cuts to get an opportunity to contest in the elections, party sources said. 
 
 
