MAPUSA: Judicial magistrate first class, Pernem, on Wednesday granted bail to Isidore Fernandes, 44, of Anjuna, who was arrested for allegedly molesting a US national at Morjim during the Republic Day weekend.

 Fernandes was granted bail on furnishing a surety of Rs 10,000 and on condition that he will report to the police station for five days to cooperate with the investigation. Anjuna police nabbed the accused on Tuesday evening after taking cognisance of a Facebook post that was uploaded by the woman in Mumbai on Monday evening, which went viral. Fernandes was handed over to Pernem police as the alleged incident took place in their jurisdiction.
 
 Fernandes was booked under Sections 354, 354 –A of the Indian Penal Code. 
 
 The first information report (FIR) lodged by Pernem police, based on the woman’s Facebook post, states, “On January 27, at Morjim, the accused person demanded sexual favour thereby insulting and outraging her modesty.” Police sub-inspector (PSI) Anant Gaonkar told TOI that Pernem police opposed Fernandes’ bail plea, stating that the probe was in the preliminary stage and the statement of the victim is yet to be recorded. “During interrogation, Fernandes has denied the accusations levelled against him and has said that he is innocent and has been falsely implicated in the case,” said police sources.
 
 “A police team led by PSI Parag Parekh has left for Mumbai to record the victim’s statement. She is scheduled to leave for her native country on Thursday,” Pernem police inspector Sandesh Chodankar said.
 
 Following the accused’s arrest on Tuesday evening, the US national applauded Indian authorities for acting swiftly on the matter. “While still shaken by the events, I’m happy to report this man was tracked and a formal report with the Goa police is being lodged tomorrow. I’m grateful for the Indian authorities who acted so fast and the incredible support by all of you for sharing and offering kind words,” she said.
 
 “For those of you who did not have the kindest words, or questioned my story - you are why the #MeToo moment is needed. You are why   are scared to come forward with the truth. You are why there is systemic misogyny and abuse of women across the world. I wasn’t ‘too friendly’. I got a selfie with him before he got inappropriate. I didn’t get a pic of his bike because we were on a dark road and I was scared,” the woman said. 
 
 The woman further said that she gave the accused money because she was scared and wanted to lessen the chance that he would chase her. “I didn’t scream because I wasn’t sure if it would escalate the situation in the wrong way. I don’t believe the answer is wearing more clothes, not travelling alone, carrying a weapon. The answer is raising awareness, supporting those with the courage to speak up, and resisting victim shaming,” the woman’s post stated.
 
 
