Twenty five years ago, Mollywood was gifted with some of its most iconic villains –   in  , Devaraja Gowda in  , Swamy Amoorthananda in   and Bhaskara Pattelar in Vidheyan. They only served to make the characters of the protagonists in the films stronger. Currently, however, powerful villains are few and far between in Malayalam films, with Pulimurugan’s   probably being the last such memorable character.

 So, what’s destroying the space that villains so arrogantly demanded? Actor Kalabhavan Shajon, who played the antagonist in films such as   and Masterpiece, says, “It could be because we are taking up more realistic stories. Right now, only mass films with superstars have the need for ‘katta’ villains that stand toe-to-toe with the protagonist. It’s a positive change because the directors are now trying to make movies that the audience prefers to watch. Mass films, if not for the superstars, don’t work.”
 
 Scriptwriter and director Renji Panicker, who had created memorable baddies in films such as The King, Commissioner and Pathram, says that even heroism is not showcased to the level it was a decade ago. “It’s not just villainy that is on the decline but heroism as well. Also, movies that show the conflicts between the two are very few and that’s one reason why villains are not part of the movies that come out now.”
 
 Director Siddique, who along with Lal had created antagonists such as Ramji Rao in Ramji Rao Speaking, Ravuthar in Vietnam Colony and John Honai in In Harihar Nagar, though, has a different theory. “Any story is always a friction between a protagonist and an antagonist. But the antagonist doesn’t always have to be a person, it can be an external power that opposes the smooth flow of a protagonist’s life. The   can be a natural calamity, unfavourable circumstances or even a disease like in Nokketha Doorathu Kannumnattu and Akashadoothu,” he says.
 
 While he admits that villain characters are on the decline, contemporary films bring in the wicked element through other factors, he points out. “In Ennu Ninte Moideen, Moideen and Kanchanamala’s families were the villains. In Pulimurugan, apart from the Daddy Girija character, the tiger is the antagonist,” he says.
 
 However, Siddique says that having a person as an antagonist makes the job easier for the filmmakers. “Our audience have a notion about how a villain is. So, they would lap up every evil act of his,” he says.
 
 Meanwhile, actor Siddique, who has played villain in films such as Ravanaprabhu and Sathyameva Jayathe, says that the idea of heroes and villains have now changed and given way to central and supporting characters that strengthen the plot.
 
 Also, a villain now depends on how the story is narrated, he says. “In Drishyam, who is the villain? Is it the police constable or the boy who misbehaves with the young girl or the parents played by Mohanlal and Meena?” he asks. “Similarly, in Thondimuthalum Driksakshiyum, who does the audience side with? It depends on the perspective. In Yavanika, the hero is Ayyapan but everything he does is fraught with villainy. Similarly, in Ravanaprabhu, Mohanlal disrupts a police commissioner’s wedding and kidnaps the girl. His actions were nothing short of what a traditional villain would do.”
 
  The actor though is in support of the current trend of a realistic portrayal of heroes and villains in cinema. “It’s always great when new themes and varied presentations make their way to Malayalam cinema. The audience too will enjoy the films then,” he says, adding that stereotypical stories and characters lead to monotony.
 
 At the same time, creating realistic characters too comes with its set of challenges, Shajohn says. “There is a grievance that people are now being badly influenced by films, and there are many restrictions on what can be shown in cinema. We live in a time where even inane content is being censored and that is adversely affecting films too. The truth is that there are even greater evils happening in the world – especially crimes against women and children. However if we try to reflect that in our content, I don’t think we would be able to release the movie. That’s one reason why scriptwriters don’t attempt to create such characters.”
 
  If we take stock of the antagonists in Malayalam cinema, it would be clear that powerful villainesses too are missing. Renji Panicker, whose movie Roudram had Prabha Dutt playing a villain named Rema bhai, attributes this to the action sequences in such films. “These films show physical confrontations between the villain and the hero and so it probably would be more convenient to pit male actors against each other.”
 
 Director Siddique, whose film Chronic Bachelor had Indraja as the antagonist, though says that there is very less room for creating villainess in Mollywood. “Most of the films are family oriented and our audience don’t digest women as villains unless they are portrayed as a mother in law or a jilted lover. However, if the story is set in another State, they tend to believe that such characters do exist. But I believe, this will change as our women are now becoming bolder.”
 
