MOHALI: The parents and children had tough time locating each other after classes were over due to the presence of   at   in   on Monday.

 Heavy security was deployed for the former deputy chief minister   who was attending a function hosted by Prem Singh Chandumajra, the member of Parliament from Anandpur Sahib at the school’s auditorium. Former cabinet minister Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa was also present there as the guest of honour. The VVIP vehicles were parked on the school premises leading to utter chaos. The parents as well as the children were seen to be lost in the crowd.
 
 The parents were found criticising the VVIPs and school management for allowing the parking of VVIP vehicles along with heavy security on the premises. Parents said they had a real tough time locating their children. Children availing school’s transport were forced to board their buses from outside the school as the security staff did not allow the school’s vehicles to enter the main gate.
 
 Teachers were also seen directing children not to go towards the auditorium, instead to stand under the sun.
 
 One of the parents, Sachin, said, “It is ridiculous on the part of the school management to have let out the auditorium for a VVIP function. They must have ensured the safety of the children first as the security staff of VVIPs were not letting us enter the school. Secondly, we are finding it difficult to locate our children in the crowd.”
 
 A number of parents stood in the crowd with anxious eyes when they also failed to trace their children in the heavy rush. Joginder Singh, who came to pick up his granddaughter, said, “How is it possible to locate our children in such a heavy rush? All the space inside the school has been covered by the vehicles of the VVIPs and the security personnel. Who will be responsible if a child gets lost?”
 
 The rush outside the school gate was also chaotic as the visitors to the function also parked their vehicles along the roadside. School buses were also seen parked away from the main gate due to this. Though Mohali traffic cops were deployed outside the school gate, they were not of much help.
 
 
