MUMBAI: The state cabinet has approved a proposal making it mandatory for all its departments that provide medical services to purchase medicines, medical equipment and other related items only from  .

 Currently, various departments like public health, tribal development, women and child development, medical education, social justice and home departments float tenders to buy medicines or equipment for rural hospitals or local public health centres as per their requirement.
 
 However, several officials slammed the move. “The government is favouring centralisation of the system instead of decentralising power. It will result in delay in supply of medicines or machinery and might hamper health services, especially in rural areas,” said a senior health department official.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 However, defending the decision, Dr Deepak  , state minister for public health, told TOI the new purchase system would bring in transparency. “Purchase of medicines, consumable items and equipment through one agency will help maintain transparency, while bulk purchases could prove economical,” said Sawant.
 
 Asked about a scenario where a department faced shortage or was in urgent need of a particular medicine, and whether it would have to wait for other departments to place orders, Sawant clarified that departments were empowered to make purchases up to Rs 3 lakh from their contingency funds.
 
 The minister added the new system would also make it possible to keep track of inventory and avoid duplication. “The government will strengthen Haffkine by recruiting more staff to meet the additional work load,” said Sawant.
 
 In April 2016, Sawant was accused in a Rs 297-crore drug purchase scam. Opposition leaders in the legislative assembly and the council,   and  , had alleged large quantities of iodine bottles, diabetes medicines etc were bought though there was no demand. The minister had suspended three officers following the allegations.
 
 The allegation was that ten- ders for procurement of 549 medicines at a cost of Rs 297 crore were awarded hurriedly on March 31, 2015 the last day of the financial year. Under NUHM, these were to be supplied to 26 municipal corporations and 65 municipal councils, among other urban bodies.
 
 
 
  
 
