Patiala: Mortal remains of DSP Baljinder Singh Sandhu, who had shot himself in the head with his service revolver on Monday, were consigned to flame with full state honours on Wednesday. 

 Punjab director general of police (DGP) Suresh Arora along with a battery of senior police officials attended the last rites that were held at Tripuri crematorium.
 
 Sandhu had shot himself dead with his service revolver while trying to resolve a dispute between two student fractions. 
 
 Known as an honest officer, Sandhu had joined the state police as an assistant sub Inspector in 1993. He had been promoted as deputy superintendent of police about 6 months ago and was posted at Jaito, his first posting.
 
 During his last rites, a contingent of the Punjab Police fired shots in the air as a mark of respect. The pyre was lit by the deceased’s son, who is settled in Canada and had returned home on Wednesday. 
 
 Sandhu's father Dev Singh said the entire family has been destroyed by his untimely death. “The void left behind by my son can never be filled.”
 
 His mother Charanjit Kaur said she was proud her son, who had always performed his duties as a policeman with integrity and grit. Sandhu’s wife Kulwinder Kaur said that he was an honest policeman who always stood as protector of the law. 
 
 DGP Arora said the state police had lost an honest police officer and the entire department stood with the family. He also laid a wreath on the mortal remains of Sandhu on behalf of the Punjab Police. 
 
 Amongst those who attended the funeral were Patiala mayor Sanjeev Bittu, IG Patiala zone AS Rai, IG and head of organised crime control unit of the state police Nilabh Kishore, DIG Patiala range Dr Sukhchain Singh Gill, Patiala deputy commissioner Kumar Amit, SSP Dr S Bhoopathi and SDM Patiala Anmol Singh Dhaliwal.
 
 Meanwhile the family members said that Sandhu was a strong willed man and he could never commit suicide. DGP Arora said the police had already registered a case against unidentified persons and the matter was being investigated. He added that details of police investigations were awaited. 
 
 
