CHANDIGARH: Three years after the first complaint of sexual harassment against a   (PU) assistant professor was reported, the senate on Sunday finally removed the professor from service. However, he will have an option of seeking service elsewhere, but not in  . As many as 66 members of the senate were present to take the decision.

 Since some senate members were not in favour of harsh punishment for the professor who allegedly often went to class in an inebriated condition, PU vice-chancellor Prof Arun Kumar Grover said, “Alcohol is not cheap and he needs money. Unless he has access to job and has money, how can he buy that much of alcohol? If we keep him in the job and he keeps on doing such things, what are we answering to the society? Is the society with us that we should pay the taxpayers’ money to this person so that he continue to do this?”
 
 Elaborating on the polling conducted on the April 1 senate to decide the quantum of punishment for the assistant professor, Grover asked was there anybody who thought that the professor did not deserve a major penalty? On this, senator Ajay   said, “You are deciding the life of a person and his family. You have no right to ruin somebody’s life like this. You are behaving like a dictator and this is not acceptable.” The VC replied, “I refute your insinuations.”
 
 Senate member Gurjot Malhi said it was a serious case and the reputation of PU was at stake. “We all have mothers, daughters and wives and we have had ample discussion on the issue and now it is below the dignity of the girl complainants to further stretch this matter without making a decision,” Malhi said.
 
 Ranga challenged the vice-chancellor and said, “I challenge you to legally defeat me in this case. Three students who had given their statements in this case had admitted that they were under peer pressure to do so.” On this senator,  , who is also a member of the PUCASH, said that those three students told the   that they were intimidated to submit wrong statements.
 
 Since several senators tried to defend his case stating that the house should think about his family, senator   said that in that case, “you will also have to think about the family of the senior lecturer of the dental college found guilty in more than dozen sexual harassment cases.
 
 In the April 1 senate meeting, the assistant professor found defence from 18 out of 50 senate members, who did not vote for termination of his services. Unable to get the two-third majority, since 32 senate members polled to remove the assistant professor with possibility of future employment and 18 voted for demotion to a lower rank, the senate could not take a decision on April 1.
 
 A total of four complaints of sexual harassment were made against the assistant professor, out of which he was proved guilty in two cases, while one complaint was withdrawn and he apologized in one case.
 
 What were the complaints 
 
 A student filed a complaint before PUCASH on September 10, 2015, alleging the assistant professor passed sexually-coloured remarks and threatened to spoil her career as he had authority to evaluate the internal assessment of 40 marks.
 
 Another complainant on April 24, 2017, alleged the assistant professor used sexually-coloured abusive language and pulled her hair
 
 Seventeen students of a department alleged misbehaviour and harassment from the assistant professor. He allegedly introduced the students to an acronym “kiss”, which, according to him, was for knowledge, information, skills and society and then he said, “Ae thuade vale kiss di gall ni mai kar reha”. Then he told the students that “I am a Fakir but F*** wala nahi”. He first warned a girl saying “Tenu me thappad marna” and then he slapped her
 
 
