GHAZIABAD: An elderly couple granted a Rs 1 lakh compensation by the Uttar Pradesh government for keeping them waiting for two years before registering a complaint of fraud, failed to get their cheque encashed because of a signature mismatch.

  (70) and his wife   (65) had been given the cheque, signed by SSP Hari  , on December 29 following a recommendation from the  .
 
 However, on Wednesday, when Prakash went to collect money from a local branch of  , he was told that the cheque could not be encashed as the signature of the SSP on the cheque did not match with that registered with the financial institution.
 
  The couple, who did odd jobs throughout their lives, had given their savings of Rs 5 lakh to one Bablu Yadav to buy a plot. Not only did Bablu not give them the plot, he also beat them up, the couple claimed. The couple had approached the police in 2015, but it eventually took them two years to get their complaint registered. On Wednesday, Prakash and Usha went to a nationalised bank but were told that the signature on the cheque did not match the one in the records.
 
 The husband-wife duo have again approached the NHRC, as SSP Singh has said he will look into the matter. “It should not have happened,” the SSP said about the signature mismatch.
 
 The couple, who had given up all hope to get back their savings of Rs 5 lakh, were relieved with the compensation and planning to get ailments treated that they had put off for lack of money. 
 
 They now live in a one-room accommodation in Shiv Puri, Vijay Nagar. “I don’t know how long it will take to get this matter resolved. Our only source of income comes from my wife, who works as a domestic help. I accompany her everywhere as she cannot hear properly. I was thinking of getting the hearing ailment treated with this money,” said Prakash.
 
 Prakash and his wife met Bablu in 2012, who allegedly promised to get them a piece of land for the Rs 5 lakh that they had saved. But Bablu allegedly kept going back on his promise, year after year. Between 2012 and 2015, Prakash claimed he did everything he could to get the money back. But Bablu allegedly beat up the couple and lodged a complaint of harassment against them through his wife.
 
 The couple first approached the police in 2015, but failed to get their complaint registered. It was only in August last year that an FIR was lodged after Prakash and his wife met SSP Singh.
 
 Tired of being allegedly rejected by the police, Prakash had written to the NHRC, which conducted an independent inquiry and found lapses on the part of the cops. The commission directed the state government to give the couple the compensation by December 29.
 
 
