NAGPUR: The historical santra, khoa and paan markets, situated towards east of the railway station, will soon get a 21-floor multipurpose mall to be developed by the Nagpur Municipal Corporation ( ) in association with the   ( ). The proposed mall will also accommodate all the shops situated under the flyover in front of the railway station.

 Corporator  , who has been pursuing the project, said the proposed mall will have direct connectivity with the railway station’s foot overbridge over platforms. “Metro Rail’s feeder bus service, commercial shops, lodging, restaurants etc will be constructed in the mall. Passengers can directly enter into the mall from the railway station platforms and avail Metro Rail or feeder service etc. Passengers waiting for trains can also avail the facilities like restaurants, multiplexes and shops in the mall. Mahametro will fund for construction of the mall and will share revenue with the NMC,” he said.
 
 The corporator further said the private travels stand situated adjacent to khoa and paan market will be also demolished and incorporated in the proposed mall.
 
 As per the proposal, the NMC will hand over around 12,225 sq.mt land to the Mahametro for Metro station, corridor and mall.
 
 The Mahametro has also requested the NMC to hand over the land on which small shops situated adjacent to Phule Market Bhavan at Cotton Market. The Mahametro has proposed to construct Metro Rail Station on this land, Datke said.
 
 The NMC, keeping this in mind, already started the process of rehabilitation of khoa and paan dealers on Saturday by constructing a temporary market with 102 small shops and nine godowns in an open space available on the premises of Hindi Basha Shala near Cotton Market. The market has been constructed in association with Mahametro.
 
 Facilities like toilets for ladies/gents, overhead water tank, parking area, electrical fitting, compound wall have also been provided at the temporary market.
 
 Datke said 62 occupants of khoa and paan market will shift to the temporary market in next two days. “All occupants of santra/fruit market will be shifted in next phase. There are three parcels of land owned by the NMC between   and Octroi Naka. All three lands will be handed over to Mahametro. Metro station will be constructed in some part. Multipurpose mall will come up on remaining land,” he said.
 
 Mayor Nanda Jichkar, former mayor and corporator Pravin Datke and Mahametro managing director Brijesh Dixit inaugurated the temporary market on Saturday. NMC assistant commissioner   was also present.
 
 
