KOCHI: In a bid to address water crisis at Vypeen Island panchayat,   ( ) project division at Perumbavoor has decided to resume construction of   at   and  .

 “Construction of water tanks at Murikkumpadam and Njarakkal started around seven years ago. Around Rs 6 crore was allotted by the Goshree Island Development Authority (GIDA) for the construction of water tanks in connection with various drinking water projects to solve water crisis of the Islanders. But the contractor who was entrusted with the task of building tanks stopped working on the project in between citing various reasons, including health problems, and eventually the project came to a halt,” said A Noushad, KWA executive engineer of the Perumbavoor project division.
 
 
 The division takes care of water-related projects estimated above Rs 1 crore in the district.
 
 “We have removed the contractor and have issued fresh tenders so that construction of the tanks will be resumed. Construction of the tank at Njarakkal is almost complete, but the tank at Murikkumpadam is yet to be finished. The tank at Njarakkal has the capacity to hold 17.8 lakh litres of water and the one at Murikkumpadam can hold 11.8 lakh litres. We hope to finish the entire work by the year-end,” he said.
 
 The decision to issue tenders was following a protest staged by members of Goshree Manushyavakasha Samrakshana Samithi demanding completion of building water tanks.
 
 “Reckless attitude of the contractor who was in charge of the construction of tanks for the past seven years led to the inordinate delay. Over the past years, we had conducted numerous strikes and petitions in front of KWA office,” said Paul J Mampily, chairman of the Samithi.
 
 Majnu Komath, chairman of Fort Vypeen Janakeeya Kootayma, said that Vypeen Islanders need at least 10 million litres per day (MLD) of water. But the area only receives water below 5 MLD. So, the construction of these two water tanks need to be completed as soon as possible, he said.
 
 
 
