HYDERABAD: In what is seen as a vindication for   general secretary  , the party on Friday made a crucial amendment in its political resolution at its ongoing meet here to open the doors to an “understanding” with   in its fight against the BJP-RSS combine.

 The party Congress decision to amend the key paragraph of the draft resolution approved by the central committee in Kolkata in January marks a setback to senior leader Prakash Karat who has backed a doctrinaire approach to maintaining a clear distance from Congress.
 
 The party removed the words “without having an understanding with the Congress Party” and retained “without having a political alliance with the Congress Party” in its final resolution that will dictate its political-tactical line for the next three years. This opens political space for closer coordination with Congress.
 
 This is the first time since CPM was formed in 1964 that a draft political resolution approved by the central committee has been amended. With the Yechury line prevailing, his prospects to be re-elected as CPM general secretary on Sunday have brightened. While he looks at a second term, former Tripura CM Manik Sarkar, politburo member Brinda Karat and secretary B VRaghavulu are believed to be in the race.
 
 The crucial emphasis on “no understanding” with Congress had not only divided the Left, but had also cast a cloud over opposition unity. The Kerala unit, which faces Congress as its main rival, was at divergence with WB where Left is fading even as an opposition with rise of BJP.
 
 Taking into consideration the overwhelming demand by delegates for an amendment to the earlier draft, the momentum shifted in favour of Yechury and the steering committee of the party Congress agreed on a consensus to avoid the embarrassment of vote through secret ballot that was being demanded. The compromise, however, might indicate that the Karat camp sensed that its support has dwindled.
 
 The political resolution adopted by the 22nd party Congress also added a new clause that clarified the party’s political position, going forward. It said, “There can be an understanding with all secular opposition parties, including the Congress in Parliament on agreed issues.  , we should cooperate with all secular opposition forces for a broad mobilisation of people against communalism.” Yechury, in his intervention on Friday, said the CPM would, after the party congress, “go back in a unified manner”. Former general secretary Prakash Karat, the key dissenter on an “understanding” with Congress, said that “those expecting a split will be disappointed”.
 
 “It is unprecedented that two views have been put before the Congress. The Central Committee decided that since this is a political issue it should be decided in the highest body of the party, the Party Congress. That is why comrade Yechury placed the CC minority point of view,” said Karat. “As far as the political line is concerned, any political alliance with the Congress is ruled out.”
 
