MYSURU: Making a strong case for the growth of   globally, former chief minister and recipient of Saraswathi Samman award   on Tuesday said that Kannada was more than a language – it represented a culture.

 Moily, who inaugurated the two-day Akhila Bharatha Prathama Kannada Samskruthika Sammelana at the Sharada Vilas Centenary Bhavan organised by the Akhila Bharata Kannad Samskrutika Parishat, said that there was a need to preserve Kannada language and culture.
 
 Stating that   did not pose a threat to the survival of Kannada, Moily said, “In this era, the treasured traditions and culture of Karnataka has to reach the younger generation.”
 
 Pointing to the rich cultural history of Karnataka, Moily said, “Our state’s cultural history dates back 2,000 years. The saint Ramanujacharya took shelter in Karnataka. Shankaracharya, born in Kerala, established Dharma Peetha here in Sringeri. Social reformers such as Basavanna and Allama Prabhu established the ‘Anubhava Mantapa’, which can be considered the world’s first Parliament. BR Ambedkar drew inspiration from the concept of Anubhava Mantapa to draft the Indian Constitution. Karnataka has always upheld the idea of religious tolerance.”
 
 Recalling the measures he took as the state finance minister to restore the ruins of Hampi, Moily said, “I headed a renovation programme, and many sites were restored. I wanted all graduates of Karnataka to spend two months on vacation at the heritage sites of Karnataka. This would train them academically, and enhance their knowledge on the history of the state. Unfortunately, the idea has not been implemented.”
 
 Meanwhile, the vice-chancellor of the Karnataka Samskrit University Padmashekar, the president of the Sammelana said that Kannada writers from Pampa, Ranna, Kumaravyasa to the social reformers of the 12th century and Kuvempu had spoken about sensitive issues such as caste, greed and gender.
 
 Sessions on ancient Kannada literature, Mukthaha Kavi Sammelana and a discussion on moral values were among the highlights of the first day of the Sammelana.
 
 Writer CP Krishnakumar, MLA Vasu, BS Parthasarathi, Prof. Ni Girigowda and Prabhuswamy were present during the inauguration.
 
 
