AHMEDABAD: Two   saw things get heated up on Monday, with   (VHP) members protesting outside   and demanding justice for two ‘victims’. While one of the girls went with her family till a further decision, another chose to go to the observation home instead of returning to her family.

 According to Sola police, they took an application of complaint in a case where a 22-year-old girl was reported missing by her family. The girl, a resident of Science City Road, was allegedly abducted by a Ranpur-based youth. The couple got married and after the police search for them started, they approached the police station on Monday. This girl has decided to return to her family.
 
  
 In another incident, registered earlier this month, an 18-year-old girl from a Chandlodia-based family entered a ‘live-in’ agreement with a Shahpur-based youth. The complaint by her parents had alleges coercion and intimidation by the youth when they tried to intervene. The girl refused to go back when her statement was recorded on Monday and decided to go to a women’s observation home till the issue is resolved. She was sent to the observation home on Monday night, said officials.
 
 “Both girls are adults and are free to choose the life partners according to the law. We have recorded their statements in the case and have sent them according to their wishes,” said a Sola police official.
 
 Hemdradra Trivedi, Vishwa Hindu Parishad (VHP) and Bajrang Dal spokesperson said, “We organized a protest at Sola police station to demand strong action against two Muslims boys who trapped two Hindu girls from Science City and Chanakyapuri areas, for love jihad. Both the boys used fake Hindu names to lure the girls and forcefully married them. The parents of both the girls informed us so we came in their support. If the police will not take strict action against the accused, we will call for a major protest.” 
 
 VHP also demanded a separate force by the state government to rein in rising incidents of ‘love jihad’ on the lines of Uttar Pradesh’s ‘Anti-Romeo squad’.
 
 
