Nagpur: Expressing concern over highly educated youths remaining jobless, mayor Nanda   on Thursday said that efforts should be made to provide details of various educational schemes available to them not only in India but also abroad so that they could explore better employment opportunities.

 “A large number of qualified youths lacks skill development for which sustained campaigns should be launched so that they could become competent. Interest plays an important role in a profession for which students should identify the areas where they could do well,” Jichkar said. 
 
 The mayor was addressing the fourth   Summit (YES), organized by Fortune Foundation in association with the collectorate, Engineering Colleges Placement Association (ECPA) and Nagpur Municipal Corporation at Dr Vasantrao Deshpande Hall. Nearly 72 stalls have been installed for placement and career guidance on employment and entrepreneurship at the three-day summit. 
 
 MP   chaired the function while MLC Anil Sole, MLA Sudhakar Deshmukh, former lieutenant general   and MLA Sambhaji Nilangekar were present. 
 
 Addressing the gathering, Sole said, “Youth empowerment summit aims to provide aspirants proper guidance about various professions.”
 
 Deshmukh said that hundreds of students were benefited by YES initiative that provided guidance on employment and entrepreneurship. YES is a good platform that gives job opportunities and also helps potential entrepreneurs.
 
 Nilangekar said that it was observed that youths who tend to be lethargic should change their approach so that it will have a positive impact on career and take them to greater heights. The youth summit is a forum which gives youths opportunities. It is up to an individual to sharpen their skills and excel in the chosen field.”
 
 In a video message to the aspirants, union transport minister Nitin   asked students to explore scope for biotech and agro-based industries. It is important that they acquire the desired skills in their work area. A good employee should have proper knowledge of market and other aspects, he added.
 
 Gadkari said, “Value-based education is important because only then can youths understand the significance of speaking out their ideas and making a difference.”
 
 During the ceremony, Youth Empowerment Summit was felicitated with Rs1 lakh and a memento. 
 
 Corporator Sandeep Jadhav proposed a vote of thanks. 
 
 
