CHARMINAR: At a time when water bodies across the city are falling prey to rampant urbanisation and shrinking drastically, civic authorities have let a landmark water body in the Old City rot.

 Katora Houz, the 450-yearold cup-shaped water tank, constructed inside the fortified walls of the   Fort, lies in a neglected state with water hyacinth fast spreading amid the trash that carpets the drain water.
 
 Of late, the once magnificent water storage facility has been reduced to a dump yard with mosquitoes breeding in the polluted water. Viral fevers too have returned to the residential areas abutting the water body.
 
 “We have been spending more time in the hospital than at home these days. Four people in my family are sick with viral fever now. Even after several complaints to the local authorities, no action has been taken to revive the water body,”  , a resident of Golconda said.
 
 The water body has not just become a dump yard but has also turned into a place for miscreants to drink and create nuisance on the steps that lead to the tank, said locals.
 
 “People have been using the area to consume alcohol in the nights. This is also making the area very unsafe, especially for women and children,” said Masood Khan, a social activist.
 
 According to locals, not only has the state archaeology department failed to take any steps to preserve the heritage structure from encroachment, it has even let it become a massive waste bin.
 
 “The authorities have never taken up the restoration job seriously. They have cleaned up the hyacinth in the past but they have not maintained it,” said P  , heritage activist and convenor of (Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage) INTACH.
 
 While the officials of Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) were not available for a response, the   ( ) officials said the proposal is under process and restoration will be taken up soon.
 
 “We have been waiting for the proposal’s sanction. The restoration works will start soon,” said  , superintendent engineer, lakes division, GHMC.
 
 
