NEW DELHI: A   tribunal turned the definition of motor vehicle accident compensation on its head by ruling that use of a tractor battery to trigger an explosion to dig a well and the resultant death of a person from a flying stone would be termed as an accident involving a vehicle.

 
 The tribunal ordered the company which insured the tractor, owner of the vehicle and owner of the land on which the well was being dug to jointly pay Rs 9 lakh compensation to the kin of the person who died after being struck by a stone which flew out after the explosion.
 
 The Nagpur bench of the Bombay high court overturned the decision of the Motor Accident Claims Tribunal, Washim, in Maharashtra. The victim's kin challenged the HC decision in the apex court.
 
 The   has been grappling with the issue for the past five years. On Tuesday, a bench of Chief Justice   and Justices A M Khanwilkar and D Y Chandrachud faced a dilemma. On the one hand was the absurdity of terming a tractor battery being used as the trigger to cause an explosion as an accident involving a vehicle. On the other hand were poor family members waiting for the last 13 years for compensation for loss of life of a relative.
 
 Faimidabi owned agricultural land in Kajleshwar village in Washim district of Maharashtra.
 
 She contracted another person to dig a well on the land, who planted explosives at the site and used the battery of a tractor belonging to yet another person to trigger a blast on April 8, 2005.
 
 As the explosion took place, a large stone flew out and hit one Firoz. Firoz succumbed to head injury and his family moved the MACT, Washim, asserting that the explosion was caused by use of a motor vehicle and hence the owner of the tractor as well as the land owner were liable to compensate them.
 
 The MCT chairman rejected the defence that the explosion was not caused by a motor vehicle and the tribunal should not treat it as a motor accident to grant compensation.
 
 On October 10, 2013, a single judge bench of Justice A V Nirgude said though it was not in dispute that a motor vehicle's battery was used for causing the explosion, it was improbable to term it as an accident "arising out of the use of motor vehicle" as defined under Section 165 of the  , 1988.
 
 The HC had dismissed the claim petition. The SC will hold final hearing next week.
 
