Their fathers are famous in their own right. But the sons of at least three Kolkata musicians are trying to carve a niche for themselves. Armed with guitars, keys, drums and vocal chords, the youngsters are aiming high. Mohul, Samantak and Deepraj, who performed at Upal Sengupta’s terrace concert on Wednesday evening, did not reveal, even once, their identities as wards of illustrious fathers. They are sons of Srikanto Acharya, Chandrabindoo’s Surojit and  , in that order. 
Mohul, a Class XI student of Patha Bhavan, started to play the guitar at the age of seven. “He is very close to Joy (Sarkar), Lopamudra (Mitra) and guitarist Sanjoy (Das). I had bought him a guitar when he was very young and at seven, he would go through   and take lessons,” said Srikanto Acharya. Mohul was earlier in  , where the curriculum included a course affiliated with the   of Music. “He learnt classical guitar later from  . He and his sister are also into composing. Both are encouraged a lot by Rupankar. Last year, Rupankar recorded four songs for an album, which were all composed by Mohul, who also strummed the guitar. He will start training under Amyt Datta soon,” said the singer. 
 Mohul’s partners in crime are Pratik’s son, Deepraj and Archishman, son of Anasua Choudhury. The former played the drums to Mohul’s songs. A Class IX student of DPS, Deepraj took to music under the guidance of Pratik. He can play both the cajon and drums. Archishman, who was mentioned by Mohul at the gig, is a college-going lyricist and the trio mostly makes music together. 
 Samantak, 11, son of Chandrabindoo guitarist Surojit, who wowed all with his performance of Uthe sab ke kadam, started taking music seriously from the age of five. A Class V student of South Point, he first started taking guitar lessons. “The strings would hurt his fingers, but he never stopped at that. Soon he started learning the keyboard. I got him admitted to Calcutta School of Music under   and he is also greatly influenced by Anindya, Upal and the rest of our band members,” said Surojit. 
 About spotting the new talents, Upal said, “Samantak had performed earlier, but he is growing as a musician. I have known Mohul for long and know how talented he is. When I was organising the terrace concert, my wife suggested his name. Mohul, in turn, got me introduced to Deepraj. The best part about them is they are all very sincere and want to learn more.” None of the three musicians spoke about coming from music families. They introduced themselves as regular musicians, keen to impress the motley crowd at the concert. And they got what they wanted. 
 
