VADODARA: In a new twist to the ongoing row over admissions granted to students under Right to Education (RTE) Act, five city-based minority schools have approached Gujarat High Court challenging the order issued by Vadodara district education officer (DEO) to grant admissions under the Act. 

 
 
 Management of five schools, including Basil School, Tandalja; Saint Basil School at Jambuva;   at Vasna Road; Saint Mary School at Gorwa; and MGM School at   moved the High Court on the grounds that in 2014, the   had ruled that RTE Act was not applicable to aided or unaided minority schools. 
 
 “Since the SC order is very clear that the minority schools cannot be obligated to reserve 25 per cent seats for students under RTE Act, we have challenged the order issued by the DEO in the High Court,” said an official, adding that the High Court will hear the matter on June 1. 
 
 The teams of district education officials which were directed by the DEO on Thursday to camp at nine city-based schools which are denying admissions to students under RTE Act on Friday returned to the office without any success. 
 
 Apart from the five schools who have moved the High Court, the teams had also visited Auxilium Convent High School at Pratapnagar; Don Bosco School, Makarpura; Rosary School; and Convent of Jesus and  . 
 
 “But in majority of the cases either the school officials said they are not in a position to admit more students or the respective school authorities were not available to take a decision regarding the admissions,” said an official. 
 
 After their visits, the officials will be submitting their reports to the state education department. 
 
 The row over the admissions granted under RTE Act at minority schools has escalated with parents, who were given admit cards under the Act, thronging the DEO office with representations and the DEO office slapping notices to 15 minority schools to admit the students. 
 
 After the notices, a couple of schools have agreed to admit the students. But majority of them are still not ready to accept the directives. 
 
 A total of 400 students have been granted admissions in 20 minority schools under the Act.
 
 
