COIMBATORE: The recent burglaries in their locality have left the residents of   a worried lot. Last month, miscreants had struck at two houses in a span of three days, exposing the lack of security and policing in the area.

 Another concern for the residents is the vacant plots with overgrown vegetation and abandoned old houses in the locality that have become a haven for  . To add to the woes, the police outpost in the locality had been lying closed for around three years.
 
 Last month, burglars first struck at a house in the Q-Block of the locality when the resident had gone to meet his daughter, who was admitted to a hospital for delivery. Finding the front door of the house wide open, a neighbour informed the resident, who found a tablet, two mobile phones, gold ornaments worth Rs 70,000 and around Rs 5,000 missing. 
 
 “The burglars broke open the front door lock, pried open the bureau door with a rod and looted the valuables. Our house might have been under their scrutiny for a while and they must have known that we had gone to the hospital,” said the resident, who didn’t want to be named.
 
 Two days later, burglars struck at another house in the same block. “It took place on a Thursday when the   temple located near the house would see a large crowd. It was a well-planned act,” the resident said.
 
 Following these incidents, residents said, police held a meeting with them and briefed them on safety measures. “They mainly asked us to install CCTV cameras at our houses. We didn’t see any other initiative from their part,” a resident said. 
 
 According to N  , a resident of Q-Block, unidentified people were often spotted in the vacant plots and abandoned houses in the locality. “When we confront them, they slip away silently,” he said.
 
 Residents wanted the officials to revive the police outpost situated at the entrance of the locality. The outpost was inaugurated in 2008 by the then city police commissioner, C K Gandhirajan. It used to function under B 14 Kuniamuthur police station. “The outpost functioned for a few years and then it was closed,”Hariharan said.
 
 When contacted, a police official said the department had shut the outpost due to manpower crunch. 
 
 “At least four personnel are required to man the outpost. And we don’t have that many people to spare. But we have increased night patrolling in the area” the official said.
 
 
