CHENNAI: An   to celebrate a sitting chief minister’s birthday, more than three crore saplings planted over five years and a jump of Rs 150cr in yearly allocation — on paper these make a perfect blueprint to replenish the state’s lost greencover, but the reality is different.

 Six years ago, when the project was launched on J Jayalalithaa’s birthday, the news brought cheer to otherwise sceptical nature lovers. But their joy was shortlived as two years later the plan did not bear fruit and the   handed it over to the rural development and panchayati raj department (RD&PR).
  
  
 Between 2012 and 2014, Rs 43.55cr was released to plant 64 lakh saplings, the number increasing by 1 lakh every year, across 32 districts. While the   Pollution Control Board released Rs 30 crore, the remaining amount was provided by the state government to protect the saplings for a year. This worked out to Rs 14.55cr per year, but in 2015 the amount spent went up by Rs 150cr. 
  
 
 For 67 lakh saplings planted by RD&PR and the forest department, Rs 164.54cr was spent. The next year, the forest department planted eight lakh saplings and another 60 lakh were planted by RD&PR for Rs 166.99cr. In 2017, 69 lakh saplings were planted for Rs 169.45cr. In the new financial year, Rs 171.90cr will be spent on 70 lakh saplings.
 
 A senior official from RD&PR department said unlike the forest department, it employs unskilled labour which ups the cost. “When compared to the forest and PWD, our rates are three times more. So the cost of raising, planting and maintaining saplings has gone up several times,” the official said.
 
 Former head of forest force and principal chief conservator of forests Aruna Basu Sarcar said two years after the programme started, then forest secretary Mohan Varghese Chunkanth formed a committee with three additional principal chief conservators of forests – Srinivasa Murthy, Sarcar and R K Upadhyay. The committee was asked to inspect the plantations done between 2011 and 2013. “Except, Krishnagiri and a couple of districts, the saplings were not properly planted and protected,” she said. “After the report, the department decided to reduce the planting in the subsequent year,” Sarcar said.
 
 The report said in some of the districts the saplings were not even properly planted. Also, around 20% of the saplings survived, it noted. When TOI visited a site in Padappai near Tambaram, it found that the saplings were exposed to cattle and vandalism. Forest department officials said watering was a problem and it was not taken into account.
 
 The department has completed another inspection to fix responsibility. Chief wildlife warden and principal chief conservator of forests T P Raghunath said the department has identified those responsible for poor planting in the first year. “The committee has submitted its report to the department. Further action will be recommended and sent to the government for approval,” he said.
 
 
