KOLKATA: Upcoming actor Moumita Saha’s suicide has turned the focus on the desperation of aspirants who come to Kolkata with big dreams. Most turn to   directors and producers to make it big on the silverscreen. But their struggle often leads them to roles of extras or even escorts. Some even end up with roles in soft-porn.

 According to producer  , at least 1,000 aspirants from small towns migrate to Kolkata every month. Their dreams and parental expectations often push them to dangerous territories. In their localities, these girls might seem to have all the makings of a heroine. But once they land on a film or serial set, they realise they hardly stand a chance and return home, hurting their self-esteem. That’s when they get exploited. Frustration mounts when they realise none of their dreams would ever come true.
 
 
 Said Sarkar, “Most pay a hefty sum to join a training institute. But big roles don’t come easy. They might earn something by doing small roles. Once their income dips, they fall prey to ill-intentioned production people who make false promises. They should remember that roles offered over coffee meetings often don’t end up on screen.”
 
 Director   has to field countless such calls from aspirants. Many of them come from small towns and even far off villages in Bangladesh. The kind of photos they send reveals they have “no grooming” or talent. Some land up in Kolkata and get duped into spending money for giving auditions. “These girls are ready to do any kind of compromise to get a role. There was a time when production managers used to mercilessly exploit them. Some end up as escorts,” Sil said.
 
 The cruellest part is when these aspirants get trapped thinking they are auditioning for “good roles”. In most cases, they are invariably called during late evenings to confirm their selection. “While some are directly given indecent proposals, others are told their roles require certain degree of exposure. The latter has become rampant in recent times with short films being churned out in huge numbers primarily for the YouTube monetisation process,” said director Atanu Ghosh.
 
 The opening of digital medium to new content might give a platform to showcase talent. But, it also has its share of pitfalls. Most of these short films are only meant to generate online hits with their sensational content. The vulnerable smalltown aspirants, who are less aware of these traps than their counterpart in Kolkata, easily get lured into this world of sex.
 
