MUMBAI: The   has made it clear that it has a number of questions that the state has to answer on its decision to hand over 33 hectares in   for a  . 

 Expressing concern over the impact on the environment and the balance to be struck between development and any such impact, a bench of Justices S C Dharmadhikari and PD Naik asked the government whether it had already carried out de-reservation of the huge plot kept for metro car shed from its long-standing reservation as a No Development Zone (NDZ) in Aarey. The HC directed that all original records in relation modification of the Aarey land be produced on March 20.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 The bench was hearing a petition filed by Amrita Bhattacharjee, a member of of  , challenging the government’s decision to carve out 33 hectares or over 81 acres in Aarey Colony for the metro car shed. “It's only a car shed meant for parking trains why can't land be given elsewhere?” the judges asked the state. The petitioner suggested that a possible alternative was a Kanjurmarg plot. “The state should take care of ecology and environment,’’ the HC said even as it asked   Limited (MMRCL) to continue with construction work there at its “own risk’’. The HC posted the matter on March 20 for final hearing and disposal and gave the state two days to file its affidavit or forfeit that right.
 
 The state’s stand is that it had followed all legal procedures to reserve 33 hectares. It issued notice in December 2016 to invite suggestion and objections from public about the ‘proposed modification’’ at Aarey. A hearing was given by the deputy director, Town Planning to the Planning Authority and persons who took objections. The state said it received 2,382 objections and suggestions. A report, submitted on July 21, 2017 through the director, said “commercial development need not be allowed.”. On this recommendation, the state decided to drop ‘commercial development of land’ and allow the land for train parking alone.
 
 The Aarey land is being reserved for MMRCL on the conditions that open areas shall be kept open and it would be binding to conserve trees on that part, permanently. To mitigate environmental impact on Aarey Colony, the state requires that ground water recharging arrangement be provided in the car depot; only those trees be planted which have ‘10 feet height and are of a native variety’. Plantation has to be undertaken by professional agencies only and an annual third party audit be performed with MMRC to maintain these new trees for five years.
 
 
