VADODARA: An engineer working with Gujarat State Fertilizers Corporation ( ), who was conned of Rs 1.8 lakh cash and 17 tolas   ornaments by three tantriks between October last year and January 8, lodged a complaint with the city police on Tuesday.

 The three accused scared the complainant Girishchandra   and his wife with bad omen and extorted money and ornaments under the pretext of performing rituals to ward off the evil effect.
 
 Police arrested the accused Milankumar alias Ashok Kavi and Nagin Parmar on Tuesday while the third accused Jumma Khan Pathan is on the run.
 
 The trio was called by the couple to perform a ritual in October but they told Paswan that there is bad omen in his house and they would not have water until they get rid of the omen. The accused burnt a coconut and performed a ritual to convince the couple.
 
 They took Rs 1.5 lakh from Paswan to get material for rituals. However, they made up a story that they were nabbed by the police and had to pay Rs 30,000. Paswan was then asked to pay Rs 1.8 lakh more to get another set of materials for rituals. When they reached Paswan’s house near Chhani railway station and opened the bag, broken glasses were found from it. Paswan was told that the glass was broken due to bad omen and asked him to give them Rs 1.5 lakh more.
 
 When Paswan again gave Rs 1.5 lakh, they asked him to give Rs 6 lakh which they will return after the rituals will get over. When Paswan told them that he would not be shell out such a large amount, they told him that if the ritual was not performed, either he or his wife would die. Paswan borrowed money and called the trio after 20 days.
 
 During ritual, they asked Paswan to keep the money and all ornaments in a box and locked it up. After the ritual, they asked the couple to open the box after 21 days. When the lenders asked Paswan to return the money, he opened the box and found empty wrappers of biscuits. Paswan then informed the police about how he was duped.
 
 Cops asked Paswan to contact the three persons and call them at his house. The accused instead called him at a hotel in   with some more money. When Paswan and his wife reached there, only Kavi and Parmar were present there. Few minutes later, the cops too reached there in civil dress as per the plan and nabbed the duo.
 
 
