PUNE: Sajida Shaikh — who was married to Pranesh Kumar alias Javed Shaikh whose father   Pillai, a petitioner in the   encounter case, was killed in a road accident in Kerala’s Alappuzha district — on Friday said she will continue to fight the case till its logical end. Javed, Ishrat and two others were killed in an encounter with the   police in 2004. 

 Sajida, who took a flight from Pune to Kerala after learning about Gopinath’s death on Friday morning, told TOI over phone, “My father-in-law always used to say whether he is alive or not, we have to fight the case till its logical conclusion to secure justice. I will continue to do so and will fight for justice. I will return to Pune on Sunday following the last rites and the police formalities.” 
 
 Javed and Sajida were living in a house at Kalas in Vishrantwadi when the encounter took place. Later, Sajida married Asif, a motor mechanic, and is since living with her two sons and a daughter at the Eden Garden society in Kondhwa Khurd. 
 
 For 10 years after the encounter, Sajida worked as a teacher with New Grace School in Kondhwa. Later, she left the job and started a coaching class, ‘Sadab’, for standard V-VII students. She conducts the classes at her residence and a society nearby. 
 
 Speaking about Gopinath, Sajida said, “We had always maintained contact with the family and would often talk on the phone and meet each other occasionally. The last time we met was in November last year.” 
 
 During the days immediately after the 2004 encounter, the state anti-terrorism squad and the Pune police had carried out a search at Javed’s house in Kalas. “The police had sealed the house after recovering certain documents, which were handed over to the Gujarat police,” an ATS official, who was part of the search operation, told TOI. Sajida later secured a court order to get the seal removed from the house, he added. 
 
 Days after the encounter, Sajida had shifted to another house at Mithanagar in Kondhwa and, later, married Asif, the officer said. “Sajida was not on the radar of either the city police, the ATS or other investigating agencies,” he added. 
 
 Lawyer Asim Sarode, who had represented Sajida in the court proceedings, said, “We had helped her secure the teaching job in a school. It is only recently that she left the job and started her own private coaching venture.”
 
 
