KOLKATA: Students like Adriza Sen Sharma, Sangbed Dutta Choudhury and Cathrine Ruhi Tirkhey, who were preparing to sit for multiple national entrance exams, have been left heartbroken. Despite wanting to opt for undergraduate subjects at the illustrious Presidency University, they will not be able to appear for the admission tests of their choice scheduled to be held over the weekend (May 12-13) since the   Bachelors’ Degree Entrance Test has clashed with as many as four other entrance exams — Indian Statistical Institute, common law admission test (CLAT), consortium of medical engineering and dental colleges of Karnataka (COMEDK) and   (NID).

 
 Sen Sharma had to settle for the English and mathematics entrance tests at Presidency University on Saturday, having to skip the ones she actually wanted. “I had to let go of both the ISI entrance test and the economics admission test for Presidency University that are to be held on Sunday since I preferred to attempt COMEDK. I am interested in joining an engineering course. I also wanted to study economics in Presidency University if I didn’t make the cut in the engineering courses. But now my options have been limited,” she said.
 
 Similarly, Dutta Choudhury has decided to only appear for COMEDK on May 13. “I can’t sit for the chemistry exam in Presidency University scheduled on Sunday. It had been my dream. But now with several exam dates clashing each other over the next two days, I chose COMEDK. I’ve completely opted out of the race for Presidency University admission test as COMEDK requires preparation time and concentration. If I do not get through the engineering entrance exam, then Presidency University could have been a good choice,” the Salt Lake School student added.
 
 Tirkey, a student of Calcutta Girls’ High School who lives in Dum Dum, will now only appear for CLAT. “I have left out ISI and Presidency University undergraduate admission exams. In Presidency University, I was initially planning to apply for economics, mathematics and statistics. But considering that all the exam dates are clashing with each other, I am only preparing for CLAT now. I had taken preparations for the law entrance test throughout the year,” she said.
 
 Another student, Adrija Halder, will have to go to Ahmedabad to take the NID entrance test for the Bachelor of Design course. “I will not be able to appear for any of the Presidency University admission tests,” she rued.
 
 Officials of   (WBJEEB), the exam-conducting body for Presidency University UG courses, said they could not afford to change the dates. “In November, we had informed all examconducting bodies not to hold their admission tests during the second weekend of May. We are conducting nine exams and we didn’t have alternative dates available. The students should have a clear objective and then decide which test to appear for and which to let go,” said board chairman, Malayendu Saha.
 
 Times View
 
 Exam calendars here should be drawn up keeping in mind the pan-India exam schedule. It is obvious that students suffer in such cases; they miss out on trying for more institutes and subjects of choice. But institutes, too, stand the risk of losing talent. It is a lose-lose situation for both students and institutes.
 
