MUMBAI: A serial cellphone thief targeting women commuters was nabbed by the GRP after he struck for the third time in six days on   on Thursday. Halim Shaikh, 20, a school dropout, admitted to snatching from fashion designing student   — in the process dragging her till the coach exit — at   on Saturday. A home guard had tried to chase Halim, but he climbed on to another platform across the tracks and escaped. Halim, a resident of the Behrampada slums in Bandra, has studied till class VIII.

  
  
 
 The GRP has not found any criminal history, but strongly suspect that Halim has stolen many more cellphones. After his arrest on Thursday, when he snatched a phone yet again at Khar station, Halim led the cops to a contractual railway labourer from Santacruz, Rubel Shaikh, 26, who had purchased Parekh’s stolen phone.
 
 The police recovered Parekh’s phone and two others, collectively valued at Rs 81,000. “Halim’s modus operandi involved travelling on the footboard of the general compartment adjacent to the ladies coach. He would check the ladies coach for someone holding their cellphone casually. When the train was about to start from a station, he would pass by the ladies coach, snatch the commuter’s phone and flee. Sometimes, he would walk a little ahead of the ladies coach and return, just to avert suspicion,” said senior inspector Sunilkumar Jadhav, Bandra GRP.
 
 In Parekh’s case, Halim went a step further and boarded the ladies coach (see box). But Parekh did not easily let go of the phone, and her mother pulled the chain. Alerted by the screams, the CCTV shows, ahome guard, posted in the adjacent first class compartment, got off and went after Halim. But he could not chase as another train pulled onto the next track. Halim had crossed the tracks, jumped on to the next platform and fled. “We had increased police presence at stations when Halim struck at Khar around 9.20pm on Thursday (see box)… As Nasreen Shaikh and her sister raised an alarm, patrolling policemen swooped down on Halim. He was brought to the police station and booked for theft,” said Jadhav.
 
 On interrogation, he admitted to stealing Parekh’s phone and another commuter, Shraddha Waghmare’s, at Matunga station on March 13. Waghmare had approached the police. Halim and Rubel were produced before a railway magistrate court on Friday.
 
