FATEHGARH SAHIB: The Fatehgarh Sahib police on Saturday busted a gang of three involved in   and seized five loaded weapons and a motorcycle bearing a fake registration numberplate. The gangsters have a number of cases of murder and robberies registered against them.

 Fatehgarh Sahib senior superintendent of police (SSP)   said those arrested have been identified as Rahul alias Rola, Sajjan and Varinder Kumar alias Gora. Siblings Sajjan and Rahul are from Amritsar, while Varinder is a resident of Jalandhar. They came in contact while in jail and formed a gang to carry out contract killings. 
 
 Police have seized two .32 bore pistols, two country-made .32 and .315 bore guns and a .32 bore revolver along with 48 cartridges, four magazines and a Royal Enfield Bullet motorcycle from their possession.
 
 SSP Meena said the gang had got contract got two killings and was also planning to free an accomplice who was presently lodged in Amritsar jail. She said the gang planned to attack a police party and free the accused when he was to be taken for a court hearing at Baba Bakala town of Amritsar. The SSP said a special team constituted under assistant superintendent of police   nabbed the accused from near a check post. She said the accused tried to fire at the cops but were overpowered.
 
 Meena said preliminary interrogation has revealed that the gang operated in Majha region of the state.   has nine FIRs related to murder, loot, snatchings and extortion in different districts of the state against him, Sajjan faces similar charges in 12 different cases while Varinder has five cases of similar nature registered against him. They have even been declared proclaimed offenders in nine cases and had jumped bail in one case.
 
 The SSP said gang used to supply weapons to criminals in Punjab by procuring the same from Uttar Pradesh before switching to contract killings. They had got contract for killing two persons and wanted to kill another person due to personal enmity, the officer added. The officer said, “We have updated the police chiefs of other districts where they were planning to strike.”
 
 
