MANDSAUR: Family of Abhishek  , the class XI student who was killed after being hit by a bullet during farmers’ agitation in Pipliamandi last year, was in for a surprise when his elder brother was served a notice by the Mandsaur district administration asking him why he should not be made to submit a bond of Rs 25,000 for maintaining good behaviour during the coming ‘Gram Bandi’ protest planned from June 1.

 
  Patidar was with his youngest sibling Abhishek, when he sustained the bullet injuries. He carried his injured brother frantically searching for medical attention. But he succumbed.
 
 
 Barely a year before his death anniversary, Madhusudan received the notice from the executive magistrate, tehsildar Malhargarh, asking him to maintain peace during the 10-day agitation called by farmer associations.
 Madhusudan has been asked in the notice (a copy of which is with TOI) to appear at Malhargarh police station on May 26, to explain why the bond should not be executed. His name is among the 10 other youths who have been sent the notice in Barkheda Panth village.
 
 “How can they do this? We are still grieving. We don’t go out. How can they thinks that anyone in my family will disturb peace,” Abhishek’s mother Alka Patidar told TOI, sitting in her house with thatched roof, adjacent to the Mandsaur Neemuch highway.
 The family is shocked. “Would the mental hell for my family stop anytime..,” asked Abhishek’s father Dinesh Patidar, making futile attempts to wipe tears behind his spectacles.
 
 The family had received Rs 1 crore as compensation and a job for Abhishek’s elder brother   as a fourth-grade employee in   tehsil office. “This does not justify the notice,” Dinesh said.
 District collector OP Shrivastava confirmed that such notices have been issued to people across the district after the police station level probes, seconded by the tehsildar, found that they might indulge in violence during the said period. “These people have been identified on basis of their history.., those who have been booked earlier for violence, those who indulged in arson during last year’s protest,” he said.
 
 He denied knowledge about notice being issued to Madhusudan, but did not rule it out. “Whoever is found to be a threat in Barkheda Panth village might have received the notice,” the collector said, claiming that the government had taken care of the family by offering compensation and compassionate job.
 
 The notices have generated an uneasy anger among the farmers in the district prompting   to come out strongly against the move. “This is highly undemocratic. We will take to the streets against such notices being served, not only to the Congress workers, but if need by to the BJP workers and farmers with no political alliance,” former Congress MP Meenakshi Natarajan said.
 
 The notices come close to the heel of farmers’ protest against their 25-point demand, including action against policemen responsible for firing in 2017, called by   president Shivkumar Sharma alias Kakkaji.
 
 While the farmers will not be selling their produce in cities during the 10 days of protest, AICC president   has planned a rally to commemorate deaths of six farmers during 2017’s violent protest in Pipliamandi. Congress plans to woo farmers through the rally ahead of the assembly elections expected to be declared in November this year.
 
