KOTA: A former income tax (IT) officer in  , who is currently the IT commissioner in Surat, is being investigated by the   for the purchase of agricultural land in his wife's name from members of the schedule caste (SC)   community, whose land cannot be purchased by a general community member. 

 In December last year, the CBI had directed Bundi district collector to inquire into the matter, but the local administration failed to show any interest in conducting the same.
 
 In a letter (No. 1568, dated 26/12/2017), the CBI's state head office in Jaipur had directed Bundi district collector to inquire and take necessary action on a complaint filed by one Ramphool  , a resident of Bundi city.
 
 In his complaint, Mehara had alleged that the then Bundi ITO, J K  , and Madan Gopal Sharma, a grain trader, and three to four other influential businessmen had purchased around 30-35 bighas of agricultural land in 2010 -11 in   village under Gadegal Patwar in Namana area of Bundi district from people belonging to the Majhabi Sikh community at a very low price.
 
 It was alleged that using his influence and power, the IT officer violated norms and privileges of the SC community and got a larger part of the land registered under the name of his wife, Varsha Chandnani, and the remaining in the name of Ramandeep Sharma, son of Madan Gopal Sharma, and others.
 
 Mehara alleged that Chandnani and the grain traders violated norms by transferring SC/ST land to people in the general category and committed a punishable offence by acquiring property beyond their known source of income.
 
 Following Bundi district collector's direction on January 30, the ADM (administration) forwarded the matter to district registry for inquiry. But no action has been taken on the letter so far.
 
 When contacted, Kesari Singh, nayab tehsildar, Bundi, expressed ignorance and said that he can only react in a few days after studying the matter.
 
 Mehara had also alleged that when he raised the matter at the local level before filing the complaint with the CBI, the aides of the IT official had made offers to him which he rejected. Following this, they even attempted to bully him, he said.
 
 According to a legal expert, advocate Raj Kumar Dadich, Majhabi Sikhs come under the SC category and land owned by the community cannot be sold or purchased. Land deals done and transferred in the name of people belonging to the general category have zero value and the original SC owner retains ownership to the property, he added. Chandnani had served as IT officer in Bundi from 1999 to 2001. Despite several attempts, he could not be contacted for comments.
 
 
