NAGPUR: Processing of school   will continue in offline mode till July as technical issues persist with the online salary software.

 The glitch, that occurred in January, may get resolved soon with the normal process beginning from August. This affects all government school teachers along with those employed at private-aided institutions.
 
 The offline process does not mean major delays in salaries, just a slight increase in paperwork at state’s Pay Unit (PU). An employee of the PU told TOI that more details on how the online glitch problem could be solved may become clearer in a day or two.
 
 “On Wednesday, there is a meeting about the online salary issue at  . A lot of staffers from PUs across the state will be attending the meet. The contract earlier was held by a major IT company but as of now, no new bidder has taken over the job,” the employee told TOI on the condition of anonymity.
 
 While the process is called online salary, there is still quite a lot of paperwork involved. The PU employee, said, “School principals prepare the salary bill of their teachers by taking into account leaves. This is all done in hard copy and their staffer comes to the PU with these details. We check all the bills submitted and raise red flags if at all there’s something which does not seem right. The bills are approved by PU officials and only after that, the details are entered in the online database.”
 
 Since February, PU employees have been filing all details in the offline mode which they say is much easier. The PU employee said, “Anyway, there is so much paperwork involved, it’s just one step that is online. I really fail to understand why they call it online and give an impression that it’s end-to-end online. Most of us are used to working with hard copies, so doing it without computers is actually faster for us.”
 
 Even last year, teachers faced delay in salary near Diwali because of a software issue. From August 2017, it had been made mandatory to deduct annual accident insurance premium from salary. When officials sent the salary bill for processing, it came to everyone’s notice that the software on screen did not reflect the tab for making that deduction.
 
 The annual premium of Rs 354 was deducted in one go of 5,000 teachers employed in ZP schools to whom a total of Rs 23 crore is disbursed as salary.
 
 
