Mysuru: Karnataka convener of the   River Swachhtha Andolan MN Chandramohan on Friday voiced fears of the river, considered the lifeline of the Old Mysuru Region, might cease to exist.

 “The Cauvery once used to join the sea, but that is no longer the case, and this is a cause for concern,” Chandramohan added.
 
 Alarmed at the rise in the pollution levels of the river, he said, “The pollution levels in the river have gone from bad to worse. While the water of the river at Talacauvery, where it originates, is classified under ‘A’ category, which means that it is fit for drinking without having to be treated, the water of the same river that flows from there and reaches other parts has been classified ‘B’, ‘C’, ‘D’ and ‘E’, levels that respectively indicate that it is fit for bathing, for consumption after processing, propagation of wildlife and fisheries, for irrigation and industrial use respectively.”
 
 Listing some of the reasons that have resulted in the pollution levels in the state touching alarming levels, he said, “Illegal sand mining on the river beds remains the biggest problem. The state government has not taken action against this. Unscientific developmental projects being taken up near the river, and the sewage being drained into the river by 24 gram panchayats from Talacauvery to Kushalnagar is another grave concern. With trees being chopped, rainfall has become scanty in Kodagu, and blood of animals from slaughterhouses is being let into the river, and the coffee pulping is also being drained into it.”
 
 Blaming the tourists for the sorry state of the river, Chandramohan said, “Each weekend, two lakh tourists visit Kodagu, and if each of them leaves behind a plastic bottle, imagine the number of bottles discarded in the district.”
 
 He also expressed his displeasure with the political parties for not mentioning Cauvery in their respective manifestos. “No party has thought of the River Cauvery, which quenches the thirst of a majority of the state’s population. There are no plans or programmes to improve the condition of the river, rejuvenate or revive it. This is a bitter disappointment,” Chandramohan added.
 
 Criticising film stars from both states for using the issue to garner popularity, he said that they were not too concerned about the fate of the river. “They are not thinking about how to save the river. Water can be shared only if the river is alive,” Chandramohan said.
 
 He urged the state government to give a representation to the Centre to frame laws to save the Cauvery. “Specific legislation needs to be brought in to immediately save the river,” he said.
 
 Chandramohan said that the central government, which had actively taken up the cleaning of the Ganga, ought to show the same level of interest in saving the Cauvery too. “A Rally has been organised from Mysuru to Srirangaparna on June 5 as part of World Environment Day to draw attention to the need to save Cauvery,” Chandramohan said.
 
 
