HYDERABAD: A jilted lover allegedly stabbed his 24-year-old female colleague to death at her house at   on Tuesday night. The victim, a native of   in  , had been working as a salesperson with D-Mart supermarket at  .

 On Tuesday night, the culprit, Ananth, 26, of Marpally near  , went to his colleague Janaki's house at Moosapet. "We suspect there was an argument between Janaki and Ananth when the latter asked her to marry him. He stabbed her three times with a kitchen knife and then throttled her to death before escaping from there," assistant commissioner of police (ACP), Kukatpally, N Bhujang Rao said.
 
 The incident came to light at 7 pm when Janaki's roommate Rupa returned from work. She saw Janaki lying unconscious on the bed with injuries. With the help of friends, she rushed her to a nearby hospital, where she succumbed little later.
 
 
 
 
 “T here were three stab injuries on her thigh, chest and abdomen. The stab injuries on the thigh and chest were superficial, while the injury to her abdomen was slightly deep. Had Ananth not throttled her, Janaki would have survived the stab injuries,” the ACP added.
 
 During preliminary investigation, police found that three years ago Janaki came to Hyderabad and started working at DMart, Kukatpally branch. Ananth joined the same branch as a salesperson two years ago and got attracted to Janaki. However, Janaki always treated him as a colleague.
 
 Six months ago, Janaki was transferred to KPHB branch and since then Ananth started stalking her. “He was following her and continuously calling her to marry him. Ten days ago, Ananth saw Janaki talking to her cousin over the phone. He assaulted her and threatened to kill her and himself if she did not marry him,” police said.
 
 Janaki sought help from colleagues and they warned Ananth. “Janaki’s parents were labourers and she had been supporting her family. She was happy that she got leave to visit her native place for Sankranti after a year. Her family was planning to get her married,” Rupa said.
 
 After shifting the victim’s body for an autopsy, police arrested Ananth and a case was registered against him under Section 302 (murder) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).
 
 
