HYDERABAD: Job fraud cases continue to plague the city’s IT corridor with 72 cases recorded under   commissionerate in the past one year alone. While Cyberabad recorded the highest number of cases in 2017, Hyderabad commissionerate recorded 52, followed by   with 38 cases of job frauds.

 According to Cyber crime police, Cyberabad, offenders take details of victims from job search portals to offer lucrative opportunities via call or email.“Nearly 15% of the victims have been identified as IT professionals. However, majority of the victims still remain students or unemployed youths,” said  , assistant commissioner of police (Cyber crime), Cyberabad.
 
 Police also observed that initially offenders would offer job opportunities via consultancy firms and lure victims.
 
 
  
 
 “They offered back door entry for several job seekers and would ask for huge amounts of money. Offenders assured the victims that if they contact the HR department, their chances of getting the job would be slim. It is shocking that most of the people who fall into such traps are educated. However, the modus operandi has changed over a period of time,” he added.
 
 According to the ACP (cyber crime), offenders now access details and resume of victims from job seeking portals like, monster.com, naukri.com etc by giving some percentage of commission to these websites and target victims accordingly.
 
 “Initially the accused would offer job opportunity to the victim stating that they got their details from websites, later they would ask for money sighting different charges,” said the ACP. Police also observed that most of the accused operate from Delhi and Bangalore. “Visa frauds are also connected with job frauds.The accused lure victims by assuring them work permits abroad like-Canada and  ,” said the ACP.
 
 Moreover, 70% of the accused in such visa frauds, were identified as Nigerians. “The offenders asked to deposit huge amount of money towards visa process, work permit card, personal travel allowance,   Impact Assessment and other charges,” he added.
 
