Chennai: Notwithstanding rising sales, soaring commodity prices have dented the profitability of auto makers for the quarter ended December 2018. Worse, with the top three deciding to hold on to priceline, the sqeeze will get tighter if commodity prices increases further. So far, February retails have been good with auto financiers expecting a ‘better than normal’performance. 

 “The retail offtake in passenger vehicles has been quite good so far this month and we expect the month to close with 8-10% retail growth,” said Vyomesh Kapasi, MD, Kotak Mahindra Prime. 
 
 The sales spurt has reflected in the revenue clocked by auto companies in the third quarter. A report by brokerage firm Prabhudas Lilladher said almost all the listed auto companies clocked double digit revenue growth in Q3 with Ashok Leyland topping the list at over 57% growth followed by Bharat Forge at over 47%, Motherson Sumi Systems at nearly 36%, Exide at nearly 33%, Bajaj at nearly 26%, Eicher at just under 24% and TVS at 23.5%. Tata Motors at 16%, Hero Motocorp at nearly 15% and Maruti over 14% bring up the top revenue scorers.
 
 And yet, the operating margin tally is either flat, negative or just barely positive. Even the auto sector’s highest operating margin earner Eicher Motors saw a slight drop in margin quarter on quarter. “With commodity prices being on the higher side Y-o-Y as well as Q-o-Q, most companies reported marginal Y-o-Y contraction in their Q3FY18 operating margins. QoQ margins were lower for all OEMs mainly owing to the higher year end discounts/marketing expenses for 2017 models,” said Saksham Kaushal and Poorvi Banka of Prabhudas Lilladher.
 
 While commercial vehicles are in top gear with sales across categories up nearly 18% in April-January period and the top three Tata Motors, Ashok Leyland and Volvo Eicher clocking 42-43% growth in Q3, the tally will be hit in this final quarter because of high base effect from last year. Last Q4 saw a huge jump in sales due to the BSIV related pre-buying particularly in medium and heavy commercial vehicles, two and three wheelers.
 
 
 
