GANDHINAGAR: The new GPCC president, Amit Chavda, has announced a two months long state-wide drive to revive   party organization from taluka to state level will be launched from April 12. In his first conference after becoming president of  , Chavda, on Thursday, said, “The party has decided to launch the two months long drive from the temple town of Ambaji in Banaskantha. Every day, LOP   and I will visit two districts and interact with district bodies on different issues,”

 Chavda said that the Congress will hold a series of events across the state to celebrate the birth anniversary of Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar.
 
 “The party has decided to launch Booth Chalo Abhiyyan (go to booths) in which one man and one woman Jan Mitra (worker) will be appointed at each booth to work for locals. We will build an army of new workers in 45,000 booths,” Chavda added. Cong to launch urban cell and revive cooperative sector
 
 Admitting that Congress is weaker in corporation areas Chavda said, “For the first time, the party has decided to start an urban cell which will focus on developing party cadre in cities.” He added that the party will hold a Chintan Shibir soon to work out urban strategy and win all municipal corporations in 2020. He added, “Congress had built the cooperative sector in the state, but BJP has politicized and saffronized it. We will work to revive the cooperative sector.”
 
 BJP damaged Narmada dam project more than Patkar: Dhanani
 
 Leader of opposition in   assembly, Paresh Dhanani said on Thursday that BJP was trying divert attention of the people from their failure in completing the Narmada project. He said Congress was the first to oppose  , but it was BJP-led MP government that dragged their feet on complying with the Supreme Court order for resettlement and rehabilitation of project affected people, thus delaying the clearance Gujarat needed to complete work for the dam.
 
 Paresh Dhanani, Leader of Opposition(LOP) who became target of BJP for supporting Anti-Narmada dam activist Medha Patkar alleged that, "the BJP is trying to divert attention of people from their failure in completing Sardar Sarovar Narmada dam project. Congress was first in fighting against Medha Patkar when she was opposing the dam work but the BJP is not highlighting the fact that as that the BJP led MP government did not comply with the Supreme Court order on the Resettlement and Rehabilitation of the Project Affected People(PAF) for several years and not allowed the Gujarat to get clearance to complete the dam work. Medha Patkar and other organisations in MP forced BJP government there to complete the R&R work which actually helped the state in getting the permission to raise the dam height and close the gates. BJP government in MP, Gujarat and the PM   damaged most in completing the dam work. Who stopped the Gujarat government now in giving the water to the farmers and people.'
 
 
