The police appear to be in the dark about the change in the signage colour pattern. DCP (traffic)   said, "The   has not consulted us before installing the road signs. All signage should meet the Indian Road   norms. I will check if the new signage meet the norms." 

 
  PMC joint commissioner Dnyaneshwar Molak said there's no provision in the BPMC Act on signage. He said, "The corporators propose names of roads, chowks and identify places for the signage. The naming committee clears the proposal and it is then placed before the general body for sanction. The ward offices issue tenders for the signage. Blue signage is commonly used. But the colour of signage is selected by the corporators."
 
 PMC deputy municipal commissioner (sky signs) Tushar Daundkar said the ward offices, in consultation with the corporators, take a call on finalising the signage colour. 
 
 Shiv Sena city president Mahadev Babar said "saffronisation of signage amounts to misuse of power" and "a   legislator has installed over 25 such boards around his office and residence". 
 
 MNS youth president Kalpesh Yadav said, "The blue and green signage ensured proper directions to the motorists. The news signage is not legible during the day." 
 
 Congress MLC Anant Gadgil said, "It was resolved at an international convention on traffic signs to use blue or   as the signage colours. There's no mention of saffron." 
 
 PMC deputy mayor Siddharth Dhende said, "The international practice of installing signage is in blue with names of roads written in white. It is wrong to have a colour that does not meet the international standards. I will check if the civic body has passed any resolution on this." 
 
 NCP leader and former mayor Prashant Jagtap said, "The PMC was earlier installing signage at select areas, for instance outside educational institutes, hospitals and government offices. But the situation has changed and the civic body has now reserved Rs 2 crore for installing the new signage." 
 
 Pune Municipal Corporation mohalla committee member Maithili Manakawad said, "The Wanowrie circle never had a name. But the BJP corporators have installed four saffron signboards, naming the area as Sanvidhan Chowk. Saffron is not suitable for signage." 
 
 PMC Mundhwa-Ramtekdi ward office assistant municipal commissioner Sanjay Gawade said it was not mandatory to install signage in a particular colour if the funds were coming from the budget of the corporators. "If the PMC is installing signage, then we prefer the blue and black combination with white radium," he said.
 
 
