LUDHIANA: Three members of a family were brutally murdered at their rented house in   village near Samrala. Their bodies were found on Friday afternoon.

 The victims were identified as 45-year-old Sukhdev Singh, who worked as security guard in a factory, his wife Gurmeet Kaur (42) and their younger son   (20), who originally belonged to Mirpur village in Fatehgarh Sahib district.
 
 While Harjot’s body was found in the veranda, Sukhdev and Gurmeet were lying dead in different rooms.
 
 Labh Singh, who had given his house on rent to Sukhdev about a year back, told TOI that around 2pm on Saturday, a villager informed him that doors and windows of the house were lying open.
 
 He said as he went inside to check the same, he found the body of Harjot on the verandah, after which he informed the police.
 
 Former sarpanch of the village Aachar Singh said he was in Machiwara when he got call from the house owner about the incident. “After we found the body in the verandah, we didn’t go inside and informed police,” he added.
 
 On being informed, cops from Samrala police station reached the spot and started investigation into the matter.
 
 The family didn’t socialize with anyone and hardly came out of their rented house,” said former sarpanch.
 
 Jasvir Singh, superintendent of police (detective), Khanna, said they have registered a case of murder against unidentified accused at Samrala police station. He added that case is being investigated from various angles.
 
 Cops said police have recovered an axe and a large knife from the crime spot. They added that bodies of the trio were found in various rooms and hands and legs of Harjot were found tied.
 
 Police sources said all the deceased had died of injuries caused by sharp-edged weapons.
 
 The SP said the family had left their native village in 2012-13 and had been living in different places. He said the family had been living at the rented accommodation in Chehlan for about one year.
 
 Police officials said 25-year-old Jatinder Singh, elder son of the deceased, has done hotel management and worked as a head chef at a hotel in Doraha. They said the family owned 12 acres land in their native village but they had sold it.
 
 Police officials said there is little possibility of robbery behind the crime as the killers had not taken away costly mobile phones of the deceased (including iPhone 6 of Harjot) or cash kept at the house. They said none of the mobile phones had SIM cards, indicating that the killers might have removed the same to ensure that the victims could not call anyone for help.
 
 The SP said they didn’t find any CCTV cameras installed in the street or in the neighbourhood. They are still checking whether they will find any CCTV camera in the area. He added the bodies had been sent to the civil hospital for autopsy after which the pace of investigation will pick up speed.
 
 
