BHOPAL:   took over as   on Tuesday with a massive show of strength. What stood out during the 6-hour, 20km roadshow — apart from the sheer scale of it, not seen from   in years — was the display of unity.

 Jyotiraditya Scindia, long seen as a rival to Nath and a possible contender for the CM face, stood beside the veteran warhorse, holding hands aloft and even holding up a green coconut for the new PCC chief in 43-degree heat. Digivijaya Singh seemed to consciously stay in the background as Nath and Scindia took centre stage, with thousands of Congress workers shouting ‘Yuva Urja Aur Anubhav Ka Meil (blend of young energy and experience)’.
 
 “Where do you see factionalism on the dais,” Digivijaya asked later at a meeting of party workers, as Scindia vowed to act as Nath’s “sword and shield”. And an enthused Nath gave the war cry: “No more announcements. The time has come to clear the accounts. Never before has the state had such a regime when every section of society is harried — from farmers and women, to government employees, labourers, traders and youth. This BJP government is the most corrupt in the country.” Outgoing PCC chief, Arun Yadav, who skipped the road show, remarked in his speech later that Kamal Nath is regarded as Indira Gandhi’s “third son”.
 
 Out of power for 14 years, Congress signalled its comeback intent with the rally. Supporters crowded around the truck-turned-chariot that carried the top Congress leaders, showered flowers on them, burst crackers, danced to drumbeats and jostled to shake hands with them as the procession crawled from the airport through Old City, Polytechnic Square, Roshanpur and Link Road No. 1 before ending at the PCC headquarters — Indira Bhavan — 6 hours later, leaving long traffic jams in its wake.
 
 Congress stalwarts Suresh Pachouri, Ajay Singh, Vivek Tankha, Umang Singar, Meenakshi Natrajan, Vijay Laxmi Sadhi and the four new acting presidents joined Nath, Scindia and Digvijaya on the chariot. The convoy took two hours to cover the 5km to Lal Ghati. Supporters took selfies with the netas and gave slogans like ‘Janta Ka Dukh Dard Mitana Hai. Congress ki Sarkar lana hai (Congress government must be brought back to end peoples’ woes)’, and ‘Badlav Ka Waqt Hai/Sath Aiyen Badlav Layein. (It’s time for change. Come together and bring the change)’.
 
 The road show also indicated that it would not be situation like 2008 assembly election when Suresh Pachouri was the state Congress president and Ajay Singh, campaign committee chairman but when it came to strategizing for the election or ticket distribution or even campaigning Ajay Singh was hardly anywhere with Pachouri taking all the reins in his hands. It seemed clear that notwithstanding rivalry between Kamal Nath and Scindia over chief minister’s post, both of them are prepared to maintain camaraderie that they have been showing over past couple of years. Kamal Nath appears to be ready to give equal importance to Scindia and the latter prepared to treat Kamal Nath as first between equals.
 
 
