MUMBAI: For Laxmi (name changed), a   who spent her childhood in the  , her first-ever visit to the concrete jungle of Mumbai was going to be   in more ways than one.

 She was accompanying 64 other youths from her district -- all of them either Naxals or family members of those gunned down in Naxal encounters. Seated on a large dais at the Mumbai Central bus depot on Saturday, they witnessed the proceedings in complete silence. All the while, their gaze was fixated on an adjacent stage of dignitaries, including chief minister   and Shiv Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray.
 
 Soon, state transport minister and   chairman Diwakar Raote announced the Naxals and their family members would be absorbed in MSRTC and given jobs as bus drivers, conductors and clerks.
 
 Uddhav lauded Raote’s efforts to include the youths into the mainstream and give them a new lease of life, while Fadnavis said the state’s welfare schemes were now reaching the last mile.
 
 “Depending on their skills, abilities and past education, we are recruiting these surrendered Naxals,” he told TOI. He stated a total 102 youths, mostly from Gadchiroli, were being rehabilitated. “We have recruited the first batch of 65, which includes several young girls, in MSRTC,” he said.
 
 Meanwhile, the new recruits were reticent to talk to mediapersons trying to probe about their past. “I cannot speak much, but all I can say is I am from Gadchiroli and am happy to get this job,” said Laxmi shyly.
 
 When asked, a senior MSRTC official said the youths had education from Class VII to Class X. “We will be housing them at our training centre in one of the districts where they will be provided all facilities. They will also receive a stipend of Rs 450 per month, which will eventually be increased to Rs 2,500. Some of them could learn administrative skills and join as clerks,” said a senior official.
 
 Those who want to be recruited as drivers will be given six months’ training on a learner’s licence before the MSRTC applies for permanent commercial driver licences on their behalf.
 
 “We will also impart road safety skills and put them through a departmental orientation programme of 48 days to make them skilled drivers. It could take a maximum two years to bring a turnaround and allow them the liberty to join any district and ply buses anywhere in the state,” the official said, requesting anonymity.
 
 
 
