RAIPUR: Launching a scathing attack on the   government, Congress national president   in the state capital on Thursday said, "It is for the first time in 70 years that four judges of Supreme Court came before media, seeking public support saying that they were being suppressed, threatened and weren't able to work properly. Usually it's the people who go to court for justice but this is happening for the first time in democratic India. It may happen in dictatorship like it has happened in Pakistan and countries of Africa but it hasn't happened here before when the constitution was under sharp attack and people were under so much fear." 

 Addressing the representatives of six states of Panchayati Raj on the occasion of Jan Swarajya Sammelan at Balbir Juneja Indoor Stadium in Raipur, Gandhi said, "It's also for the first time that a murder accused is leading as the president of national party of the country. On one hand, the judiciary is under fear, the press is under fear and even the BJP members of Parliament have told me that they were under same fear as they can't speak a single word before the Prime Minister."
 
 Gandhi scion said that farmers weren't BJP's priority, "Crores of farmers have been demanding loan waiver but Union finance minister says that it wasn't a part of government's policy, while on the other hand , Rs 2.5 lakh croreloan to 15 richest tycoons of the country were written off. Is that a part of government's policy? Arun Jailtley won't say a word about it."
 
 Highlighting Karnataka elections, Gandhi claimed that the Constitution of India was under attack. He said, "JD(S) MLAs on one side and Governor on the other side. JD(s) said that MLAs were being offered Rs 100 crore each. Such is the level of corruption, you may talk about Rafael deal or Amit Shah's son or Piyush Goyal. The BJP members in closed room accept before me about corruption but smile before people outside."
 
 Gandhi added, "RSS people are filling all institutions in the country with its own people right from educational institutions, planning commission and it's tearing into each sector and institution of the country. Congress party never did this during its tenure. What is the aim behind filling each institution with their own people?"
 
 He alleged that RSS and BJP do not want people to dream and give voice to the deprived ones like dalits, women and tribals. They say that a woman's place is in kitchen to cook food, her place isn't in front of a man. Similarly, Dalits' job is to clean, not to get education or dream and tribals have their own place in villages. 
 
 BJP wants to suppress voice of all people, dig up the wealth of country from mines and sell them to the biggest companies.
 
 We introduced Land Acquisition Bill with condition that land of poor can't be sold without powers executed by Panchayat, we gave responsibility to representatives of panchayat to hold rights of their own people, by empowering them, Gandhi said adding that as soon as BJP came into power, PM Modi made three attempts to quash and make amendments in bill through ordinance. When he didn't succeed, Modi asked the chief ministers of Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh, Uttar Pradesh to make changes on state level so that the land of poor farmers can be easily given away to rich companies.
 
 "Today, powers of MNREGA has also been taken away from hands of Panchayat and handed over to the bureacrats, right from land, MNREGA, food security programmes which the Congress had given to Panchayat to execute as their powers are being steadily taken away from them. There's a reason behind all of this, 'they' know that Panchayati Raj has a lot of power and 'they' want to weaken it. In 21st century, a Prime Minister won't alone protect the Constitution, but the representatives of Panchayat," he added.
 
 Congress national president promised that when Congress comes into power in 2019 elections, its prime focus would be education, health facilities and generate employment. "With elections scheduled to take place in six months, we will put in all efforts and invest all resources for education sector in all government institutions, strengthen health facilities and generate maximum employment. We will give voice to Panchayat to take all significant decisions and bringing new law or rules in Congress reign. We will change the chief minister, if this policy isn't followed by them," Gandhi concluded. 
 
 
