BHOPAL: Taking a belated plunge into the #fitness challenge bandwagon,   veteran Digvjjaya Singh on Sunday dared Prime Minister Narendra   and his ministerial colleagues to undertake a 3000-kilometre long “Narmada Parikrama” if they were so keen to drive home the fitness message among Indians.

 
 The 71-year-old leader, who concluded his six-month duration   last month, suggested that doing push-ups in AC rooms is not necessarily the only way to keep fit.
  
  
 Digvijaya tweeted on Sunday morning stating, “Fitness challenge is much in vogue these days. BJP ministers are doing push-ups in AC rooms. I throw a fitness challenge to them to undertake a 3,000-kilometre long parikrama of the river Narmada. Can you do it Modiji, Rathoreji, Rijjuji? Shivrajji has already carried out his “Narmada Parikrama” on a chopper.”
 
 The immediate provocation for the two-time chief minister of Madhya Pradesh to counter Prime Minister Modi, however, appears to be an elaborate video of state sports minister Yashodhara Raje on her daily fitness regimen that was posted on Friday.
 
 Dressed in a blue T-shirt, the sports minister starts on the treadmill and goes on to perform various exercises before concluding with a yoga session. She also keeps talking to viewers in the video, exhorting them to be a part of # Fit India campaign.
 
 Raje tagged the video to chief minister  , defence minister Nirmala Sitharaman and shooting star Abhinav Bindra, inviting them to participate in the challenge.
 
 Digvijaya is the second Congress leader after party president Rahul Gandhi to have commented on the # fitness challenge campaign on Twitter, which was initiated by Union minister and Olympic silver medallist Rajyavardhan Singh Rathore, who on May 22, had tweeted a video showing him doing push-ups in his office with the hashtag # HumFit-TohIndiaFit and welcomed Indian cricket team captain and fitness freak Virat Kohli, Bollywood star Hrithik Roshan and ace badminton player Saina Nehwal to take the challenge. All of them responded by tweeting their respective videos, doing exercises and lauding the minister for taking the initiative.
 
 Kohli, who posted his video doing planks — complete with knee bends — which he called his “favourite core workout”, invited his wife and Bollywood star Anushka Sharma, PM Narendra Modi and his former captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni to post videos from their fitness regimen.
 
 After Prime Minister Modi responded to Kohli’s tweet with “Challenge accepted, Virat! I will be sharing my own #Fitness Challenge videos soon” on Thursday, the campaign took a political turn. Congress president, Rahul Gandhi tweeted instantly daring the Prime Minister to accept his #Fuel Challenge and reduce the spiralling prices of petrol and diesel.
 
 BJP leaders, on the other hand, including Union minister Kiren Rijuju and railway minister Piyush Goyal posted videos showing their appreciation for the # Fit India campaign. While Rijuju shared pictures of push-ups, Goyal posted a video performing yoga.
 
 
 
