CHENNAI:   dissident leader and newly elected   met voters on Wednesday after his historic byelection victory and promised to visit the constituency at least twice a week. In his quest to wrest control of AIADMK, Dhinakaran, who toured RK Nagar, told the people that he would deliver the election promises made by former chief minister J Jayalalithaa. 

 Jubilant voters welcomed Dhinakaran by setting off fireworks and singing songs in his praise when he arrived at Cherian Nagar, Tondiarpet, in the constituency. The   then visited a temple in the locality before addressing his supporters.
 
 "When I was elected to the Periyakulam parliamentary constituency in 1999, I stayed at the residence of O Panneerselvam's brother there to serve the people. RK Nagar is just a half-hour drive from my residence in Adyar. I will be here two or three days a week," said Dhinakaran. The sidelined leader promised to provide 57,000 free homes to people in the constituency and work to get patta for unregistered homes. "I will bring clean drinking water to the people here. I will fight for your rights in the assembly," he said. Thanking voters for choosing him in the seat vacated by Jayalalithaa, the 54-year-old leader vowed to work harder than ever.
 
 "You have fulfilled the wishes of the people of  . We will be forever indebted to you. I will win back the 'two leaves'. This victory has shaken those in the ruling party who thought they could buy your votes," Dhinakaran said.
 
 After listening to Dhinakaran's speech, Kannu Pillai Street resident M Sarojammal, 66, said, "We needed someone who could question the ruling government." Voters admitted that parties in the fray offered money for their votes. Autorickshaw driver from Indira Nagar M Babu, 29, said North Chennai voters were with Dhinakaran. "He is a mass leader. He is capable of leading AIADMK in the future."
 
 Bharathiyar Nagar resident A Dilli Raj, 35, reckoned that money power played a big role in the byelection, but was of the view that Dhinakaran won because of his charm. "He won all the women's votes because of his pleasing personality." Asked if   would beat Dhinakaran in the poll race, Raj said, "Rajinikanth is a part of  's sleeper cell. He has been let out now. However he will not succeed." 
 
 
