AHMEDABAD:   died in a fire at their   in the Shastrinagar neighbourhood of Naranpura early on Tuesday. Ahmedabad Fire and Emergency Services (AFES) reached the shop and broke the shutters and   to gain entry. Officials believe the fire started due to a gas leak but the deaths were caused by asphyxiation.

 AFES said they received a call for smoke billowing out of Kshemankari Provision Store on the ground floor of Vardaan Tower at about 7.20am and fire vehicles were dispatched to the spot. When firemen gained entry to the shop, they found four bodies – one near the entrance, another near a partition between the living area and the shop and two in the living area.
 
 The victims were identified as Chunilal Chaudhary, 35, his wife Leela, 33, son Arjun, 2, and brother Mohan, 30. The family lived at the spot and were running the shop for the last four years. Chunilal and Leela’s daughter Pooja, 7, lives with Chunilal’s brother-in-law Naresh Chaudhary in the same area.
 
 Lalji Vaghasiya, a vegetable vendor who has a shop nearby, said that he had heard a loud sound at about 6.45am. “I ignored it, thinking it was a burst tyre. However, when local residents said that there was smoke coming out of the provision store, we rushed to the spot and called the fire brigade,” he said.
 
 AFES officials said that in consultation with forensic science experts, they believe the fire might have started with an explosion when LPG accumulated in the premises due to a faulty valve was ignited when someone, probably Leela, tried to light the stove in the morning.
 
 “It is likely that she dashed for the entrance soon after the explosion as the fire caused smoke and toxic fumes as the provisions started burning. There was no ventilation and the four may have inhaled smoke and fumes and got asphyxiated. We are also probing other possibilities,” said Rajesh Bhatt, additional chief fire officer, AFES. He added that except the main entrance, there was no ventilation in the premises, which trapped smoke and caused the deaths.
 
 Naresh Chaudhary said that the family, natives of Virpura village in the Rani sub-district of Pali, earlier lived in Mumbai. Chunilal had come back to the city from Pali on Monday. The Chunilal had two brothers and three sisters. The family slept outside the shop in the summer, but were sleeping inside because of the winter, he added. The store was known to open at 7am every day, before other stores and would get a good number of footfalls. 
 
 
