Chamarajanagar: Mandatory   of identity for issuance of monthly rations has put fair price shopowners in Chamarajanagar and Mysuru in an unenviable position – lack of reliable   connectivity in several areas across the district has put them in a difficult position. Many owners are now contemplating surrendering their licence, since they have been forced to set up makeshift shops in places where they can access the net. 

 While both shopowners and card holders admit that the biometric authentication mechanism prevents leakage of food grains, the system nevertheless has inconvenienced them. Once they identify a location wherein they know there is good connectivity, they set up a makeshift shop, the authentication process is initiated and the rations subsequently distributed.
 
 A   owner in HD Kote told TOI that the biometric authentication had caused problems for people in the villages. “In many areas in Mysuru and Chamarajanagar, you can spot makeshift fair price shops along the side of the road. Each time, we have to alert   card holders to come to different places, where we have connectivity. They blame us every month for this problem. But, we are helpless,” he said.
 
 The owner added that fluctuation in network strength was another problem they faced. “We have brought this problem to the attention of authorities concered. But everyone is helpless,” he added. 
 
 Sahadev Kumar, a BPL card holder, opined that the biometric system ought to be scrapped until all villages had necessary infrastructure for internet connectivity. “Beneficiaries have to spend a day or two just waiting for biometric verification. The concept is good. But, while implementing any policy, the government should ensure there won’t be any technical glitches,” Kumar said.
 
 Meanwhile, deputy director of the department of food and civil supplies for Chamarajanagar R Rachappa admitted to problems with network connectivity in hilly and forest regions. “We operate 487 fair price shops across the district, and we have made biometric authentication compulsory in 329 shops. The remaining shops are inside forests or in the mountains, where network connectivity is an issue. Rations are distributed according to the old system in these areas,” he said.
 
 Rachappa added that he had written to the government informing them about the issue. “Biometric authentication has been made compulsory only in taluk/hobli headquarters where net connection is available,” he said.
 
 
