CHANDIGARH: There is a need to equip our young workforce with employable skills and knowledge so that they can help in transforming India into a developed nation, said  , director at   (TBRL) in his inaugural address at the Chandigarh  , CHASCON-2018 on Monday. 

 He said the Chandigarh Region for Innovation and Knowledge Cluster ( ) institutes under the leadership of vice-chancellor of   (PU) Prof Arun Kumar Grover can play an important role in familiarising the young and innovative minds with the emerging interdisciplinary technologies useful for sustainable development of society.
 
 On the occasion of Charles Darwin’s birthday on February 12, Manjit highlighted the former’s contribution and the importance of Theory of Evolution put forward by him, which gave rise to genetic engineering that finds applications in medicine, agriculture and forensics. He gave the example how the Theory of Relativity is being used in everyday life in GPS through our mobile phones for navigational aids. 
 
 “Scientific discoveries generally depend heavily on the needs and interest of society but sometimes, the scientists are influenced by the cultures in which they grew up and the societies in which they live. These shape their values and belief which in turn influence their work,” said Manjit. 
 
 He further quoted the example of  , a Polish physicist, who while working for Manhattan project for development of atomic weapon, left the team on ethical grounds and joined nuclear non-proliferation movement for which he was given Noble Peace Prize for the year 1995. He highlighted the importance of shock waves physics, which originated from nuclear weapon development program, and contributed immensely in areas like high pressure material research, biomedical and industrial application. He appreciated the efforts of IISc Bangalore in popularizing shock wave techniques for many new areas like artificial insemination of cows and activating dormant oil wells. 
 
 PU vice-chancellor Prof Arun Kumar Grover, in his address, said recently Department of Science and Technology, Government of India has asked CRIKC to expand and assume the role of cluster for the North Western Region of India. “The need of the hour is that there should be a societal benefit of the scientific research and this can emerge only if industry-academia interaction is improved,” he said. 
 
 
