 winner AB   is the perfect taskmaster when the class is on at the   and an extremely warm person after. We meet her when a class with toddlers is on; with them all dressed in white and following her every direction. A five-year-old takes a wrong step and Balaakka, as she is fondly called by her disciples, asks, “Nana, asalu taalam vintunava?” (Are you even following the music dear?) She corrects their steps with love and firmness before giving them a break to talk to us. 

 On January 17, 2018, Bala was presented the Sangeet Natak Akademi Award by President Ram Nath Kovind at Rashtrapati Bhavan. Amongst the few who had received the award this year, for their contributions in the fields of music, theatre, traditional folk arts and dance, Bala Akka was bestowed with the award for her contribution to Kuchipudi. Previously, the state government had bestowed her with the Kala Ratna award and in 2017; documentary filmmaker Dulam Satyanarayana had even released a documentary on his muse — Balakka: Dancing with Tradition. 
 
 When asked about the Sangeet Natak Akademi Award, she says, “It’s not about awards for me, but I do appreciate the recognition. For a person like me, who lives for the sake of art, it feels like a great responsibility has been placed on my shoulders. For those who sincerely lead this way of life, receiving this award is like a reminder of it, urging us to stay on the right path, just in case we forget it.”
 
 But Bala claims, the award is not just a recognition of her as an artiste, but one that recognises   as the art form that it is. “The central government recognising Kuchipudi as an art form and presenting an award to me at the Rashtrapati Bhavan is a great step. It makes me both tensed and happy, because I have a greater responsibility to bear now,” she says. 
 
 For Bala, receiving the award was completely unexpected, and she admits that she didn’t believe the news at first. “I was touring the US when people began posting about it onto social media and kept sending me congratulatory messages. I didn’t believe them because I didn’t have anyone recommending me for the award, nor do I have any connections. My younger son Aditya got excited but I asked him not to, because, who knows? It was only when the state government’s cultural director called me, that I believed it was true,” she says with a smile. 
 
 Bala is the disciple of late  , who was a guru credited with both refining and redefining the art form while bringing it closer to the proper Natya Shastra. The long list of his disciples included bigwigs like Vyjayanthimala,  ,   and  . When a nine-year-old Bala told her father that she wanted to pursue dance, veering from her grandfather, uncle and sister’s affinity towards music, he wanted nothing but the best for her. “I have always been devoted to Kuchipudi,” she says. “When I told him I wanted to learn dance, he looked for the perfect guru for me. Now, at this moment, everything I am today is because of him. I didn’t realise how much of a support system he was in my life till I lost him. Were he and my guru here today, they would’ve been infinite times happier than I am now,” she says with longing. 
 
 “My father hailed from a middle-class farming family while my mother was from a well-off one. When he saw how serious I was about dance, he took me to my guru’s house in Madras and told me he would come back for me after 3 months, and if I wanted to go back with him I could. While there, I was very happy during the classes in the morning, but come night, I would miss sleeping near my sister and my mother’s food. But after 3 months, when my father came for me, I told him I wanted this more than anything and that I wouldn’t leave,” she narrates. Thus began Bala’s tryst with Kuchipudi. 
 
 A natural, she quickly rose through the ranks and began assisting her guru at the age of 13, and later served as the principal of Kuchipudi Kalakshetram for 12 long years. And all this while, her father would stay by her like a rock, through thick and thin. He also stood by her decision to set out on her own, and in 1997, Kuchipudi Kalaa Kendram was founded. Today, the 62 year old, whose name is synonymous with perfection in Kuchipudi, credits it all to her father. “I have lost a lot after he passed away,” she says with a tinge of sadness in her voice. 
 
 But before the air gets heavy, she’s quick to revert back to the day she was presented with the award, and she explains to us how it was, with childlike enthusiasm. “The President said something while giving the award that I cannot forget,” she says. “He called artists the ambassadors of our country and told us that it’s only through us that the country’s essence could be known to others. He also said that he understood how hard we had worked and how much of our life we have devoted to art to be there, taking the award. When he said that, I felt like there was a point to all my dedication. The whole ambience of the place, with the national anthem playing and the President taking the stage with his guards in tow gave me goosebumps.”
 
 But above it all, Bala states she felt like a child again, when she was taking the award. “I felt like my father and guru were there with me, passing on the baton to me and telling me it’s my responsibility now to pass on to the art form to many others with care. My father always told me that I should always work hard, expect nothing in return and that my hard work will pay off someday. Now I feel like it did. After receiving the award, many who knew me told me I had gotten the award a tad too late. But I don’t agree, because I believe I’m just getting started,” she rounds off. 
 
