BENGALURU: Uttar Pradesh chief minister   on Sunday took a dig at the Siddaramaiah government, saying it had been using Karnataka as an ATM for his party, while ignoring development.

 Addressing the Bengaluru leg of the Parivarthana Yatra which saw huge crowds, he said the party will use the state as nothing more, “having suffered setback after setback in states” across the country. “If there needs to be development, we need the same party at the state and Centre,” he claimed.
 
 Adityanath, who received a rousing welcome, said Karnataka has had a long association with north India, “more so for me, with the state being the janmabhoomi (birthplace) of Hanuman who assisted Lord Rama in bringing back Sita from the clutches of Ravana”.
 
 To accompanying cheers, he said: “The state also has an association with the Gorakhnath sect, from which I hail, whose founder came to the state to spread the beliefs of the mutt. It is imperative to ensure that the   wins in Karnataka to further the development agenda of PM Narendrabhai Modi.”
 
 He cited the alleged killings of 22 Sangh Parivar workers in the state, for which no action has been initiated. “In UP, there was fear among mothers and sisters to walk alone on the streets. Today, I can proudly say there have been no communal clashes in the past 10 months of the BJP regime.”
 
 On triple talaq, he said: “The   is an obstacle (badha) to the development of women in the country. Their opposition to the criminalization of triple talaq, fearing its effect on their vote bank, is an example of this. We need to root out the Congress from Karnataka and the entire country.”
 
 ‘If CM is Hindu, let him ban beef in K’taka’
 
 Taking potshots at chief minister Siddaramaiah, who recently proclaimed he was a Hindu by faith, the UP CM said: “If Siddaramaiah is a Hindu, then let him ban cow slaughter and beef in the state. Is it fair to allow beef in the state, if you are a Hindu? The BJP government previously had brought an effective piece of legislation to ban cow slaughter. What did you (Siddaramaiah) do? Soon after coming to power, the Congress government retracted it,” he said.
 
 He maintained that Hindutva is not an agenda of any party, but a way of life. “Perhaps, Siddaramaiah confessed to being a Hindu and remembered Hindutva on seeing you (party workers) on the streets in such large numbers, something similar to what   did when he visited temples in Gujarat during the assembly elections there,” Adityanath said.
 
 Cong adding Bangladeshis to voters’ list: BSY
 
 BJP state president B S Yeddyurappa accused the Congress of trying to add illegal Bangladeshi migrants to the voters’ list in Bengaluru. “Over two lakh Bangladeshi migrants are being added to the list by Bengaluru development minister K J George and K R Puram MLA Byrathi Basavaraj. They have been given the task of adding 2lakh fake voters to the list,” he alleged.
 
 BJP won’t allow BBMP trifurcation:  
 
 Union minister for parliamentary affairs and Bengaluru South MP H N Ananth Kumar said he will not allow the Bill passed by the Congress government to trifurcate Bengaluru to take effect. “Bengaluru will remain unified,” he said.
 
 He also blamed the state government for failing to utilize the Smart City funds released by the Centre. “While the Centre released Rs 1,924 crore for seven smart cities, the government utilized only Rs 179 crore. Despite allocating Rs 100 crore, the state did not use anything for Bengaluru’s development,” he alleged.
 
 Huge turnout
 
 As the Parivarthana Yatra entered its last leg, the state BJP leadership could heave a sigh of relief on Sunday as a massive crowd gathered at Govindarajnagar BGS Grounds.
 
 While the UP CM’s fiery speeches may have attracted a sizeable number of party workers, local BJP leader V Somanna seemed to have ensured a good turnout, which many claimed to be over 50,000.
 
 ‘Let Yogi set right jungle raj in UP’
 
 Let Yogi Adityanath set right the jungle raj in Uttar Pradesh. Let him save children who are dying in hospitals in that state, then come and advise us. Can Mann ki Baath feed a person? Can it give a person a roof over his/her head? We (Congress) are giving people food, shelter and education. Ours is Kaam ki Baath, CM Siddaramaiah tweeted.
 
 
