A lone woman, sitting with wilted flowers and an anti-pollution mask, on an over-sized chair, next to an air quality index monitor with giant lungs that tells you just how bad the air is that we breathe. That’s what artist   has been doing since Monday — for 10 hours each day — for her performance, titled Only Time Will Tell. 

 So, why is Avril putting herself through a grueling 10 hours each day, being exposed to noise and air pollution throughout? And why the giant lungs and over-sized chair? The chair, says Avril, is a means to attract people’s attention. Having done a similar performance under the Double Road flyover, without any installation piece or placard, she says that she was unable to communicate with people from higher economic classes. “The conversation needs to be had with that class of people, who have just one person driving in the car, or have a family with four cars — one for each member. I want to get the message about air pollution across to those people,” says Avril. 
 
 And although her message is stern, her approach is anything but. Sitting on a footpath on Old Madras Road (next to  ), all by herself, throughout the day has had people going up to Avril, enquiring about her wellbeing. And what began as concern soon turned into conversations about the deterioration of our natural spaces and the urgent need to tackle air pollution. “I have received a lot of empathy from people and that is what I want to invoke. This is a new medium to a lot of people, so it feels impactful. Since I have one-on-one conversations with them, people seem extremely moved. They keep coming back to check on me, offer coffee and coconut water, and even suggest ideas. When they see someone going through what I am going through every day, they can relate to it because it’s another person going through that. It has much more of an impact when compared to a poster,” she says. 
 
 
 
 For nearly three years,   has been putting the focus on the deteriorating air quality in Bengaluru through their various campaigns. “What we realized is that a lot of people don’t really understand the health impact of air pollution. This is a conversation that we had when we found that anti-pollution face masks turned black in 2-3 months due to the pollution. We wanted people to see what this means to be exposed to bad air all the time. So, we worked with artists, who used the filter material to make giant lungs, which we placed on the air quality index monitor, which shows in real-time what the pollution levels are. Collaborating with Avril was a natural progression, since she had already done this earlier,” says  ,  , Jhatkaa.org.
 
 And at the end of three days (which is when we spoke to Avijit), what colour had the lungs turned? “It’s quite grey. We thought that it would take a month for the lungs to turn black, but in three days, it’s already visibly grey,” he adds, leaving us with something to seriously ponder over. 
 
