NAGPUR: There were recent cases of city’s corporators not paying their power bills. Now, it has come to fore that some even pilfer electricity.   corporator   has been nabbed by SNDL stealing power worth 37,000. 

 Sources in SNDL said that the meter (410010278876) was in the name of Vijay’s father  . “The family had made the cable internal by applying plaster over it. They had tapped the cable inside the wall bypassing the first floor. This floor has two air conditioners, which consume lot of power,” said a source.
 
 SNDL had conducted vigilance operations in Imambada, where Chutele’s house is located. The team checked 120 meters in the area. Chutele’s case was suspect as, in spite of having large number of electrical appliances, his power bills were very low. The vigilance team dug up the wall and found the service cable tapped. 
 
 “Even though Chutele claimed that he was innocent, the job was intentional and smartly executed,” the source further said.
 
 SNDL had planned to disconnect the corporator but he promised to pay the entire assessment amount by Saturday. He paid the amount by evening.
 
 When contacted, the corporator claimed that he was innocent and power theft had been detected at the house of his uncle who lived nearby. “I have asked SNDL to issue a clarification to the media,” he told TOI.
 
 Earlier, another corporator Kamlesh Chaudhari of   was caught pilfering power. Chaudhari owns a lawn near   which he lets out for functions. He does not have a power connection and used to draw power by directly hooking the nearby overhead line. MSEDCL police station has registered a first information report (FIR) against him.
 
 Shelke’s meter is okay
 
 The electricity meter of Congress corporator Bunty Shelke, who is facing disconnection over non-payment of bills, has tested okay. Shelke owed Rs2.6 lakh to SNDL. When SNDL team went to disconnect him, he paid half the amount and said that he would pay the remaining only after his meter was tested. He had earlier claimed that his meter was fast.
 
 The corporator’s meter was tested at MSEDCL laboratory on Wednesday. Shelke was informed by SNDL regarding the testing but he did not come to MSEDCL office. The Congress leader had claimed that he was ‘targeted’ at the behest of BJP but detection of power theft at Chutele’s house has exposed this claim.
 
 
