NEW DELHI: Invoking the constitutionally guaranteed right to freedom of speech and expression and reminding governments of their 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   


















, the Supreme Court on Thursday cleared the countrywide release of controversial film 'Padmaavat' on January 25.  Though this is an interim order from the court which will hear the petition again on March 26, its effect was that of a final order given the detailed discussion.  The Court went into detail about the sanctity and inviolability of right to freedom of speech and expression. 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   

















 Hearing a petition from the producers and the director of the film which was banned by BJP-ruled states of Rajasthan, Gujarat, MP and Chhattisgarh, the bench led by CJI Dipak Misra reminded the governments of their constitutional obligation to protect right to free speech and expression by controlling law and order problems that could arise because of opposition to screening of the film by fringe groups. 

     



 The bench of CJI Misra and Justices A M Khanwilkar and D Y Chandrachud needed very little persuasion from senior advocate Harish Salve to fault the four states for refusing to screen the film even after changes, including in the title from 'Padmavati' to "Padmaavat', were made at the behest of the Central Board of Film Certification (CBFC). The CBFC cleared the film with a U/A certificate. However,  
 that the CBFC, while clearing a film, scrutinised filmmaking and ethical aspects but state governments had to factor in possible law and order challenges arising from volatile social dynamics. 
	
	
	
	
	
	
	 















 The argument was junked by the CJI. "That is the fundamental error. If the film 'Bandit Queen' can pass the test of the SC, why not 'Padmaavat'? Whether a film is a box office bomb or a flop, whether distributors buy the film or not, we are not concerned. When the right to freedom of speech and expression, which is inseparable from making a film or enacting street theatre, is guillotined, my constitutional concern gets aroused. Artistic and creative expressions have to be protected," he said. "A spectre of fear cannot be allowed to prevail under the Constitution," the bench said, asserting that in a country governed by rule of law, fringe groups could never be permitted to hold filmmakers to ransom. It recalled the apex court's judgment clearing the release of Prakash Jha's film 'Aarakshan' to tell all states, especially the four which have banned 'Padmaavat', to discharge their constitutional obligation and deal firmly with law and order issues. The bench rejected Mehta's plea for adjournment and said, "There are valuable constitutional rights involved. If we adjourn this case without passing interim orders, it will be wrong." It cited how the controversial Marathi play 'Mi Nathuram Godse Boltoy' by Pradip Dalvi, or film 'Mohan Joshi Haazir Ho' - a satire on the snail-paced judicial system by Saeed Mirza - and Marathi play 'Sakharam Binder' by Vijay Tendulkar were allowed to be exhibited desite their controversial themes. 
	
	
	
	
	
	 













 The CJI said, "If we continue to have Victorian mindset, then classics of literature will vanish from the bookshelves." He cited books 'Lady Chatterley's Lover', "Naked Ambitions', 'Man Who Killed Gandhi' and Sanskrit classic 'Meghdoot', which has been translated into many regional languages. The only assurance that the states got from the SC was that the court would reconsider its interim order if they could later establish they had the supreme legal right to ban screening of a particular film because of apprehensions of law and order problems.