NEW DELHI:   and   installed at major   across the capital, which usually   road safety tips, will now also show   and  . Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) has collaborated with Delhi Police to display hourly data at 50 such intersections and plans to extend this to metro stations in the next phase.

 “We have chosen 50 traffic signals in the first phase of this initiative. The aim is to provide the public more information about the air quality around them. Real-time data from the nearest monitoring station will be provided in the form of AQI readings, which are easier for the people to understand. We hope people become more conscious about the air around them with this initiative,” said CPCB scientist Aditya Sharma at a conference on air quality on Thursday.
 
 Sharma added that the Prime Minister’s Office had pushed for the project. A similar plan had earlier been identified by Delhi government.
 
 Officials said the next phase will involve mapping out more traffic intersections, apart from using Delhi Metro LED panels to display the data. In addition, the agency also plans to cover hospitals in a similar manner in the future. “This is just the first step and more coverage under this initiative will ensure more awareness among people. We are already in talks with DMRC about this,” said a senior CPCB official.
 
 The LED and electronic panels are used by Delhi Police to display traffic tips and warnings, including information about waterlogging or accidents ahead, attention messages on speed limits and location messages on diversions and U-turns. Some of the locations covered in the first phase include Mathura Road, ITO (near Salimgarh bypass), Sarai Kale Khan, Sunder Nagar, Lajpat Nagar, Aurobindo Marg (near AIIMS) and Sarita Vihar, among others.
 
 Effective information dissemination about air quality is also one of the components of the Graded Response Action Plan (GRAP) being implemented by the Supreme Court-appointed Environment Pollution (Prevention and Control) Authority.
 
 CPCB has, meanwhile, issued direction to state pollution boards of the NCR to intensity action against waste burning and carry out pollution control measures ahead of the ASEAN summit due from January 19-30. A CPCB task force had last month recommended closure of all coal-based industries operating in the NCR from January 15 to control air pollution during the summit.
 
 
