CHANDIGARH:   chief minister   directed all the deputy commissioners to get a survey conducted in their respective districts to ensure that there was no household left without a cooking gas connection. He said Haryana had already become a kerosene-free state.

 CM   was presiding over a meeting with DCs through video conferencing here on Friday to review the progress on various issues. Additional chief secretaries and principal secretaries of various departments were also present in the meeting. In all, 11 issues were discussed in the meeting. 
 
 While reviewing the Gram Swaraj Abhiyan, the CM directed the DCs to get a survey conducted through the district food and supply controllers (DFSCs) to ensure that there was no household which did not have a gas cylinder. The Gram   is being run from April 14 to May 5, under which various programmes are being organized in all villages of the state. 
 
 Khattar said facilities of shed, boundary wall, smooth passage and drinking water are to be provided in all 12,400 cremation grounds and graveyards in the state during this year. He directed the DCs to get these work completed on priority basis through Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and ensuring public participation.
 
 The CM also directed the public health engineering (PHE) and power departments to make adequate arrangement of drinking water and electricity during the summers. He was informed that the PHE department was in constant touch with the departments of irrigation and power and was fully geared up for the summer season.
 
 Last year, the tanker service in the water-deficient areas had been started from April 10. This year the service was started from April 1. As many as 245 water tankers have been pressed into service in rural areas and 77 tankers in the urban areas. The CM was also informed that 10,000 MW to 10,500 MW electricity would be available with the power department during the peak season from June 15 to September 15, as against the demand of 9,000 MW to 10,000 MW.
 
 
