AHMEDABAD: Thousands of youths queued up at a   held on the last day of   2018 in Gandhinagar. As many as 10,000 youths from across the state registered for 2,500   listed at the  , said organisers of the 3-day  , which ended on Sunday.

 “Around 100 companies participated in the job fair offering 2,500 jobs for youths including engineers, diploma holders or 10th class and ITI pass outs. The jobs ranged from finance and marketing to engineering, human resource (HR) and accounting to name a few,” said officials of Sardardham Vishwa Patidar Kendra (SDVPK), a community-run body which organised the business event of Patidar industrialists.
 
 Students already graduated, studying in final year and even youths currently working thronged the job fair and registered in hope of getting employment. “I did not get a job at the campus placements this year as only four students from our college were selected by a multi-national company. Around 200 students staying at a community hostel in Bhavnagar registered for jobs at the fair. Many of them have engineering, BSc and BCom degrees,” said Vishal Bavadia, a mechanical engineering graduate from Bhavnagar.
 
 An electronics engineer Yashvi Patel, who works at an industrial unit in Ahmedabad, also submitted her resume as she hoped to get better job opportunity. The job fair was open for all but most of registrations came from Patidar youths.
 
 “All the participating companies would process the resumes and shortlisted candidates would be offered jobs,” organisers said. The first edition of Patidar business summit saw footfalls of around 3 lakh in the last three days and over 15,000 business-to-business meetings.
 
 SDVPK also announced that the second round will take place in 2020 at Helipad ground in the state capital. The next summit would focus on sectors such as diamonds, pharmaceuticals, chemicals, real estate and agriculture.
 
 Former chief minister of Gujarat Anandiben Patel, who attended the summit on the last day, advised the participating Patidar industrialists to harness the power of youth. “Several MoUs have been signed during Vibrant Gujarat Summits between 2007 and 2017. Keep youths in minds while implementing these projects.”
 
 “We need not to make our community only (of) businessmen. There is also a need to bring a social change in the community,” she added.
 
 
