MOHALI: There is a steely look in his eyes these days. He is hungry and determined. Christopher Henry Gayle is still nursing the hurt of being ignored for the better part and then picked at the eleventh hour during the   auction earlier this year. And, he is making sure the bowlers get hurt by facing the rapier-like bat of his on the field. In the end, Kings XI Punjab won easily by 15 runs to record their third victory in four games and take the third place on the points table.

 
 
 
 Sunrisers Hyderabad bowlers were at the receiving end of Gayle’s ire as the West Indian maverick smacked 11 sixes en route to his 21st T20 century at the IS Bindra PCA Stadium on Thursday. The next best is New Zealand batsman Brendon McCullum, who has seven T20 tons to his name. This was also Gayle’s sixth three-figure mark in the IPL.
 
 
 
 Sunrisers had to experience their first loss of the season. There was a solitary boundary in Gayle’s knock and he remained unbeaten on 104. Despite suffering cramps in the later part of his innings, Gayle never threw away his wicket and it was evident that he wanted to be at the crease till the last over.
 
 It wasn’t all slam bang every ball by Gayle. Quite interestingly, he ran the ones and twos as well, showing a lot of will and resolve to prove his detractors wrong. Gayle’s six-hitting was also planned – not just mindless. Most of his sixes were in the area between long off to deep midwicket. Anything that was out of his arc, Gayle milked it for a single or two. Sunrisers arguably have the strongest bowling team in this IPL and were shell-shocked after the leather hunt they were subjected to by Gayle.
 
 Rashid Khan, who is the world’s number 1 T20 bowler and on whom SRH depend a lot to pick up wickets, was hammered for 4 sixes in one over by Gayle. In all, six maximums were taken by Gayle off Rashid’s bowling. And, that shellacking on the team’s best bowler broke the back of the rest of the side.
 
 SRH could have done well by persisting with the express pace of Billy Stanlake. The 6 foot 7 inch Aussie may have troubled Gayle with his accurate bouncers. His replacement – Chris Jordan – was the first one on whom Gayle brought his wrath upon, thumping the Barbados-born English pacer for a six and a four in his second over.
 
 At the other end,   (18 off 21b; 3x4) had the best seat in the house. Rahul was sedate, and the pair of Gayle and Rahul added their second consecutive fifty-run partnership. Rashid had Rahul trapped LBW with a quick slider that stayed a tad low.
 
 Next in, Mayank Agarwal (18 off 9b; 2x4, 1x6) got going from the first ball itself and at one point matched Gayle stroke for stroke. But Agarwal gave away his wicket softly, guiding a short ball outside the off-stump straight to the backward point fielder.
 
