BHIWANDI: A 25-year-old woman has been arrested along with her paramour for allegedly strangling her infant son and burying his body. A friend of the paramour who allegedly helped them bury the corpse has also been arrested.

 The accused —   Yadav, her boyfriend   Patel (30) and Rakesh’s friend   Kumar (19) — are in custody.
 
 The police said that Mamta had married Virendra Kumar (28) in March 2016 and the couple had a son. The three had been living in   village in Bhiwandi. Virendra works for a warehouse.
 
 The police said that Mamta was having an affair with Rakesh who lived in their vicinity. In November, she eloped with him to to his village in Uttar Pradesh. They returned to Bhiwandi recently and Mamtalivedwith Rakesh and her 1-year-old son, Aryan.
 
 “But they wanted to get rid of the child,” said a police officer. “Mamta, along with Rakesh, strangled the boy on Tuesday night. They then sought Amit’s help to bury the body in the compound of an industrial estate in Mankoli in Bhiwandi. This is located close to a creek in Bhiwandi.
 
 Virendra, who did not see his son with Mamta, enquired about the child, but failed to get a proper reply. “This raised his suspicion,” said the officer.
 
 As Mamta continued to give evasive replies, Virendra approached Narpoli police station. The police detained Mamta and during interrgation, she spilled the beans about having strangled Aryan with help from Rakesh and his friend.
 
 The police arrested Mamta, Rakesh and Amit for allegedly killing the child and subsequently burying the body.
 
 The child’s body was exhumed late on Wednesday evening in the presence of the local tehsildar and medical officers. The body was sent for a post-mortem to   in Bhiwandi.
 
 The arrested accused have been booked them under section 302 of the of the Indian Penal Code which deals with murder.
 
 Senior police inspector of Narpoli police station, S D Jadhav, said that their investigation has revealed that Mamta and Rakesh had killed the child. Subsequently, Rakesh, with the help of his friend, buried the child’s body at the isolated place in the compound, said Jadhav.
 
