PATIALA: The   (MEA) will invoke the Hong Kong, China-India Extradition Treaty for the first time since it was signed in 1997 to bring back one of the most notorious gangsters of Punjab,  

 Hong Kong police arrested Romi, a key conspirator of Nabha jailbreak, for carrying out a robbery in Wong Tai Sin district of Kowloon. A few months before the November 2016 jailbreak, Romi fled to Hong Kong. He is accused of providing funds for the jailbreak and is said to be involved in the seven targeted killings which took place in Punjab in the past two years.
 
 
  
 
 As the state police had already got a red-corner notice issued against Romi from the Interpol, they received an alert from Hong Kong regarding his arrest, following which they wrote to the MEA to initiate his extradition.
 
 The   said it was unlikely that Hong Kong police would stall the extradition, as charges against Romi did not entail a death penalty. As per Article 5 of the India-Hong Kong Extradition Treaty: “ If the offence for which surrender of a fugitive offender is requested under this Agreement is punishable according to the law of the requesting Party with the death penalty, and if in respect of such an offence the death penalty is not provided for by the law of the requested Party, surrender may be refused unless the requesting Party gives such assurances as the requested Party considers sufficient that the death penalty will not be imposed or if imposed will not be carried out (Sic).”
 
 Assistant inspector general (AIG) of police G S Chauhan said the organised crime control unit (OCCU) of Punjab Police was certain that Romi would soon be sent back from Hong Kong.
 
 However, legal expert Brijinder Singh Sodhi, a member of the legal team that thwarted the extradition of pro-Khalistani activist Paramjit Singh Pamma, who had been detained by Portugal’s Foreigners and Borders Service (SEF) in December 2015, claimed that Romi could still challenge the extradition request made by the Indian government on humanitarian grounds, by claiming that he could face human rights violations if sent back to Punjab. 
 
 He said even though charges against Romi did not carry the death penalty, bringing him back could be a tough job for the state police as riders imposed under sub-clause 32 and 34 of Section 1 of Article 2 of the extradition treaty said a fugitive could only be surrendered if there was sufficient evidence on record to convince the Hong Kong judiciary. He said though Hong Kong authorities cannot refuse his surrender under Article 5, which deals with death penalty, the judiciary can deny his extradition under Article 6 of the treaty which says surrender can be refused if the offences are political in nature. He contended that in case of Romi, he can contend that these offences were indirectly linked to politics. However, a final call in this regard could only be taken by the judicial system of Hong Kong.
 
 
