NEW DELHI: It was in 2001 that  , a youth in his 20s with cerebral palsy, reached out to the chief commissioner for persons with disabilities demanding accessible public transport in the capital. His appeal was the beginning of a case that brought the central and Delhi governments,   manufacturers and all agencies concerned to dwell on the issue of barrier-free public transport. Promises were made, among them low-floor buses as part of the solution, but 18 years later, Gupta still awaits a hassle-free commute in the city.

 Gupta’s youthful fights to get on a bus have given away to anger that the planners of the bus system and the city have failed him and others like him. When you ask him about the 2004 order, which, among other things, saw low-floor buses as a step in the right direction, Gupta responds with a series of questions: “It’s good that we have low-floor buses, but what about the hydraulic ramp for wheelchairs? Tell me where are the ramps at the bus stops? And do we have bus stops everywhere? Also, what about the buses stopping in the middle of the road to hurriedly take on passengers?”
 
 His disappointment is corroborated by the scene outside the office of his NGO, Friends Organisation, in Karampura. The buses jostle for space as people crowd the limited space on the encroached footpath and hops and leap to access public transport. No wonder, he has stopped using the buses. He uses a car, and has a driver and an attendant to escort him to his workplace. “I come from a financially strong background, so I can afford the car and assistance. What about those who can’t afford this?” he poses the question to TOI.
 
 Gupta’s general dismay is a grim reminder that from the Persons with Disabilities Act, 1995, to the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016, things have not changed much in the basic facilities that define daily travel.
 
 Now 42 years old, Gupta’s concern as a youngster wanting his own space in his city is well documented in the 2001 case. The case summary says many commitments were made by various agencies who were parties in Gupta’s litigation. The trial run of the first high-capacity, low-floor DTC bus is also recorded in the case that concluded in 2004. This facilitating bus was cited as a solution for people with disabilities and accessible public transport was to be delivered by 2010.
 
 Recalling how he began the fight, Gupta recalls, “I used to go in a school   to the institute where I was involved in various activities, including managing the canteen. When the school closed for summer and I couldn’t use the van, I realised that public transport was not ready for us.”
 
 After fortifying himself with the thought that everyone had to die someday, the movement-affected youth reached the road for his first bus journey. “It was frightening at first, but I challenged the system with the help of fellow passengers, drivers and conductors. There were times when I placed my walker before the bus to force the driver to stop and show the patience to let me get on the bus with the help of others,” Gupta remembers of the time he had to travel on buses from East Punjabi Bagh to Hauz Khas. The memories are two decades old, but Gupta’s descriptions are vivid, reflecting perhaps the deep impressions they have left on his life.
 
 The triumph of a youth who had spoken out for accessibility is mostly a record on paper today. The reality of 2018 is no different for Gupta than when he risked his life, pushing his walker towards a speeding bus. Barrier-free travel is still a distant dream for Delhiites.
 
 
