CHANDIGARH: Three persons were killed and four injured in road accidents at Sector 42 and near the light point of Sector 29 and Industrial area phase-1. 
 
 The deceased have been identified as Suraj Kumar, 27, a resident of Sector 29, Ram  , 52, of EWS flats, Dhanas and Dhan Bahadur, 43. 
 
 Suraj Kumar, an escalator mechanic at Elante Mall, received a call from his office saying that the escalator was stuck and needed repair. His parents said he left for the mall on his Activa scooter, which slipped near the   light point. As he slipped, his head struck the pavement and he died on the spot. 
 
 Sources said the deceased was wearing a helmet, which broke at the time of the accident. Passersby informed the police and a PCR rushed him to GMCH-32, where doctors declared him brought dead.
 
 Suraj was the eldest of three siblings. Family members said he was stressed because of strained relations with his wife. 
 
 Police handed the body over to family members after conducting postmortem on Saturday. Industrial Area phase one police registered a case and initiated inquest proceedings.
 
 In the second case, police said Ram Kishore, a vegetable-seller, was on his way home in an auto after selling vegetables at the Sector 52 market at around 11.30pm on Thursday. He was accompanied by Raghunath, Jaswant Singh, Chotte Lal and Dhirender Partap. The auto was driven by Raghunath. When they reached near the Sector 42 lake, a rashly driven car hit his auto and the driver fled from the spot. The auto overturned on impact and the occupants received injuries.
 
 A passerby informed the police about the accident. The injured were rushed to GMSH-16, where Ram Kishore succumbed to his injuries. Sector 36 police have registered a complaint and further investigations are on. 
 
 Police are scrutinising CCTV footage of the area to get clues of the accused.
 
 The victim in the third case, Dhan Bahadur, 43, was killed while he was crossing the road near the ITBP complex on the day of Holi. 
 
 Atender Singh, a resident of Makhan Majra said he was in his shop when he heard a loud sound. When he came out of the shop, he saw Dhan Bahadur lying in a pool of blood near the bus stop opposite ITBP complex at around 7pm. He rushed him to GMCH-32, where doctors declared him brought dead. Sector 31 police registered a case against unidentified persons on the complaint of Atender Singh.
 
 
