NEW DELHI: Delhi government’s ambitious project to install 1.4 lakh   cameras along streets and in markets was to have rolled out belatedly in March. But the delay of years looks likely to continue, with the Aam Aadmi Party government and the lieutenant governor in a tussle on the matter. 

 A senior   official disclosed that the tender for the project has been awarded to Bharat Electronics Ltd, but “the final go ahead for project execution” has not been given so far.
 
 
  
 
 Replying to TOI’s questions about the delay, a government official alleged that a hitch had arisen in the LG’s office. “The LG is insisting that the work of installing the cameras will be carried out by sub-divisional magistrates and  ,” the official said. “Tenders have been awarded and a hurdle has been created when the project was on the brink of being executed. Technically, the LG’s nod is not necessary.”
 
 Despite repeated attempts, the LG’s office did not respond to TOI’s query about the issue.
 
 Despite the delay, PWD officials think the project can be completed in time. “We gave BEL a deadline of one year to execute the project, but with the resources at its disposal, we estimate that the company can carry out the work even in six months once the policy issues are resolved,” a PWD official added. The priority for the government is residential areas because when AAP pitched CCTV cameras during the 2015 election campaign, the idea was to enhance the safety of women.
 
 Under the project, each constituency will get at least 2,000 cameras. These will be put up in consultation with RWAs and market associations. Engineers say PWD Headquarters in ITO will house only the system that monitors the health of the camera network and the feed will be shared with other agencies such as Delhi Police.
 
 “BEL will be responsible for the maintenance of the cameras and related infrastructure for a period of five years,” disclosed an official. “In case a camera develops a defect, an SMS will be sent from the control room at ITO to the RWA/market association, PWD official in charge of the area and maintenance agency.” The company has to ensure that 98% of the cameras are in working condition at any point of time, failing which it will have to pay a penalty
 
 The project tender was first floated in November 2017, but didn't receive a good response due to strict eligibility conditions. After relaxing the criteria, the tender was reissued in January and BEL offered the best terms. The project was to have taken12 months starting from March, but two months have already elapsed without the least bit of work done.
 
 
