LUDHIANA: The green plastic initiative of the   department, Ludhiana is proving to be a huge success. The vertical gardens set up by the I-T department at its   office and Gurdwara Dukh Niwaran Sahib, are not only getting replicated in schools but also at the homes of city residents. That’s not all. These vertical gardens, which help to curb pollution levels in the city, are also being installed in other government buildings in cities like Amritsar. At present, close to 100 vertical gardens are under progress at government and private school in the district, a majority of which are likely to be completed by January 30. There is good news for the I-T officials. Some corporates have also given their go-ahead to install these green gardens in their factories.

 Binay K Jha, chief commissioner of income tax (CCIT), said, “This is nothing less than a big achievement for us. If we are able to inspire others around us to take up this green cause and set up these vertical gardens we will be successful in our mission to tackle the problem of air pollution to a large extent. Air pollution poses threat to cities like Ludhiana.”
 
 Jha sounded happy with the way the green campaign has managed to find its place in the district. “I was pleasantly surprised when I saw how people are trying to devise innovative techniques to suit their requirements to install the green gardens. A businessman, who was not able to get waste bottles of green colour, got the normal bottles painted. In another case, a person got the saplings planted in waste mustard oil bottles.”
 
 SS Rai, a city businessman, who has installed a vertical garden at his home in  , is thankful to the I-T department for its green plastic initiative.
 
 “This is a wonderful project and the cost isn’t much when compared to the other methods available in the market to make the lawns green and beautiful. This technique, also, helps to make use of the waste plastic bottles, which otherwise we throw away only to add to the environmental problems,” he said.
 
