KOCHI: Three petitions – demanding   in reporting court and criminal cases – were referred for the consideration of a   by a full bench of the   on Thursday.

 
 A bench comprising justices PN Ravindran, AM Shaffique, and K Harilal ordered for placing the case before a larger bench after considering the contention of TOI’s counsel Kaleeswaram Raj that a three-member bench cannot consider the issue as another three-member bench had held in 2015 that a writ cannot be issued to media to adhere to Norms of Journalistic Conduct framed by Press Council of India.
 
 Through the 2015 decision (Sudin vs Union of India), the full bench led by then chief justice Ashok Bhushan had held that the norms sought to be enforced is a measure of self-regulation and not to be implemented through a court order.
 
 On Thursday, the full bench led by justice Ravindran said: “Though it was submitted before us that in light of the decision of the Constitution bench of the Apex Court in KS Puttuswamy vs. Union of India (right to privacy judgment), the declaration of law in Sudin requires reconsideration, in view of the fact that Sudin was decided by a co-ordinate bench, we are of the opinion that it would not be proper for us to venture to consider the question whether in the light of the decision of the Constitution Bench in K.S.Puttuswamy, a different view from what has already been stated in Sudin should be taken. In our considered opinion, such an exercise can be undertaken only by a Larger Bench of this court. Having regard to the importance of the issues arising for consideration and the repeated observations made by the apex court and this court regarding the deleterious effect of trial by media, which certainly interferes with the administration of justice, the issues raised require an authoritative pronouncement by a Larger Bench. We therefore deem it appropriate to adjourn these cases to be heard by a Larger Bench of this court.”
 
 Curbs on media were sought in petitions filed by Dejo Kappan of Pala-based Centre for Consumer Education and a Kochi-based organization called Public Eye. A case suo motu registered by the high court was also considered by the bench. Kappan had sought a ban on reporting of oral observations by judges and limiting court reporting to LLB graduates.
 
 Public Eye had demanded that media should not be allowed to publish or broadcast any information of the accused, suspect, victim, or witness before a trial court’s verdict; not to conduct panel discussions; prevent police officers from parading accused and suspects before media; ban media from publishing names and photographs of judges, lawyers, and investigating officers; direct bar associations to expel lawyers participating in panel discussions; prevent media from accessing judgments and orders from offices of judges; and to direct authorities to draw up statutory guidelines for reporting cases under investigation, trial, and appeal and to strictly enforce them.
 
 Additionally, a full bench of the court had on February 21st last year framed six issues for consideration in the suo motu case. They were 1) whether existing regulations are sufficient to keep the media within bounds; 2) is the Supreme Court’s decision in Sahara India Real Estate vs. SEBI case final on the powers of the court to frame guidelines for reporting court proceedings; 3) whether the fundamental right guaranteed under Article 19(1)(a) (right to freedom of speech and expression) available to media organizations; 4) whether a media room available to reporters at the apex court be provided at the high court also; 5) is media obligated to publish true and correct version of news and whether they can project its own policies and views as part of news; 6) and whether citizens are entitled to know the true and correct events covered by news items and to insist for true and correct report in terms of right to freedom of speech and expression.
 
 Representing TOI, advocate Kaleeswaram Raj had argued that freedom of the press is a fundamental tenet of the constitutional democracy in India and that there cannot be a separate set of circulars or guidelines regarding the reporting of court proceedings even as per Contempt of Courts Act of 1971. Even if media reports anything incorrectly, it need not be an act of contempt by itself and can be corrected by media itself as and when pointed, the counsel argued while stressing that self-regulation is the norm. If media fails to correct a wrong news, the aggrieved person can approach the Press Council of India. Isolated instances of incorrect reporting do not justify promulgation of guidelines or a code of conduct by outsiders. If the high court were to lay down guidelines, it would amount to legislating, the counsel had submitted.
 
 Central government had informed the court that the court “may make provisions in rules of conduct of business in High Court and that has to be respected by the print media, electronic media, and social media.” Central government also submitted that while all other professional bodies, namely the bodies governing doctors, lawyers, and chartered accountants, have been revamped by giving more power to the professional body, the Parliament has not taken steps to revamp the working of the Press Council of India. The regulations framed by the Press Council of India only contemplates censure. Though there was a proposal to amend Press Council of India Act, no progress was made, central government informed. Suggesting that the court should frame guidelines for media in court reporting, central government submitted, “Having regard to the sequence of events that have transpired over for the past several years and taken note of by this court in a series of judgments, it will not be prudent to wait till a law governing the field is enacted and brought into force.”
 
 Bar Council of Kerala filed a counter affidavit stating that even though existing regulations are adequate for legal professionals, the regulations in place now are not adequate to keep media within the bounds of reasonable restriction to right to freedom. There is need to frame guidelines for reporting court proceedings to safeguard administration of justice in view of the absence of a specific law governing the filed, bar council argued.
 
 Advocate Sebastian Paul, who represented Ernakulam Press Club, submitted that existing regulations are sufficient and it is not necessary to frame a set of guidelines as there is no vacuum. Senior advocate K Ramakumar, who appeared for Kerala High Court Advocates Association, submitted that representatives of media have no greater freedom than other citizens and they have no unrestricted right to enter the court and report. Right of a citizen to know is subject to the right of other citizens to privacy and therefore, there cannot be an unfettered right for the journalists to mix their views with news while reporting cases pending in courts, the counsel argued.   argued that the high court has the power to issue directions in the absence of a law, that the high court has the power to do complete justice between parties, and that nothing stands in the way of the high court in framing regulations.
 
