CHENNAI: Pointing to the streaks of   and bronze on his head, Guna demands how it’s any less of a statement than what a south Chennaiite would sport having paid a few thousand bucks to a swish salon. “But somehow, my hairdo gets me called shifty, and yours, fashionable,” he says. On an average day, this 20-something gaana singer from north Chennai is bouncing off thousands such questions in his head – some tormenting, others plain puzzling. “When our people are the ones keeping your kitchens clean, why don’t we deserve to eat from your plates? When those asking for our votes drive into our neighbourhoods in cars as broad as our streets, why are we still walking for miles together to reach our destinations on a day the buses decide to strike?”

 Thanks to director Pa Ranjith’s unique, new vision, Guna’s and numerous other gaana troupes like his from north Chennai, can now sing out these questions to the other side of society in an eclectic 19-piece act constituting gaana, hip-hop, folk, reggae and rock, which they call ‘The Casteless Collective’. Their first gig, to be hosted by Ranjith’s Neelam Cultural Centre and Madras Records, will be held at   Bain School, Egmore, on Saturday at 6pm. Supporting them in their campaign is Chennai-based Banáo Creatives. 
 
 Lending to the band’s diverse language and heady mix are also DopeadelicZ – the Tamil rap trio from Dharavi, Mumbai, that has already created waves through its gigs for Coke Studio and NH7 Weekender festival. Bringing these voices to harmony in a residency programme is Madras Records, a label run by Tenma of Kurangan fame,   and Arun Ranjan, who also manages Terrace Jams that brings together upcoming indie musicians. Their idea? To write and perform songs that are compelling and define   in ways that are earthy and familiar to each musician collaborating. In all, 15 musicians will take stage.
 
 “I have always believed that art is political. In India, art that is demarcated as art, doesn’t always include the true voice of people. And in many ways, the politics of caste are responsible for this. I want this forum to be where voices against all social evils emerge. And   inherently has in it to do this and take the message across to reach your core,” says Ranjith.
 
 
