BENGALURU: With just four months to go for the assembly polls,   and   have locked horns over claiming credit for the populist   programme. While BJP wants Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s photo at ration shops as the free rice given to the poor is highly subsidized by the Centre, the ruling Congress argues the scheme was implemented before Modi became PM.

 The programme, which seeks to make Karnataka a hunger-free state by supplying free rice to the poor, has triggered a verbal showdown between the two parties on the political turf. While chief minister Siddaramaiah has made Anna Bhagya the most important weapon in his election arsenal, BJP state president B S Yeddyurappa is attempting to neutralize him by terming it a fortune bestowed by Modi.
 
 Yeddyurappa’s argument is that the Centre procures rice at Rs 32.64 per kg and supplies it to the state government at Rs 3 per kg; the subsidy being borne by the Centre is a whopping Rs 29.64 per kg. “The Siddaramaiah government only pays Rs 3 per kg and boasts of supplying free rice while it is the Centre which is actually bearing the massive cost,” Yeddyurappa pointed out in the last few political rallies he addressed. In Hubballi recently, Yeddyurappa directed party workers to ensure that Modi’s photographs are put up in front of local ration shops. “Tell everyone that Anna Bhagya is actually Modi’s programme,” he told them.
 
 The Congress, however, has not remained mute. “The very fact that BJP is trying to hijack the Anna Bhagya programme points to the party’s desperation and speaks about the popularity of the food security programme introduced by chief minister Siddaramaiah,” food minister U T Khader told TOI. Interestingly, BJP leaders had described Anna Bhagya as ‘Kanna Bhagya’ (robbers’ fortune) when it was announced immediately after Siddaramaiah assumed office in 2013.
 
 BJP’s claim smacks of hypocrisy, said Khader, adding: “Why has the programme not been implemented in any of the BJP-ruled states, including Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Rajasthan and Maharashtra?” He maintained Anna Bhagya was announced by Siddaramaiah before Modi became PM and before the National Food Security Act-2013 (also known as Right to Food Act) came into effect.
 
 Another Congress leader said BJP has started harping on Anna Bhagya since it is popular among the rural population, especially people from North Karnataka who were being forced to migrate to urban centres during drought. “Moreover, BJP is not doing any favour by claiming to give subsidy. In fact, the Right to Food Act mandates that a poor person be given 5kgs of free rice per month and other food grains at subsidized rates. But we have gone a step ahead and are providing 7kgs of rice per person and the cost of the additional two kgs is borne by the state government,” Khader said.
 
 To back its claim, BJP has started a social media campaign saying the Modi government has given funds to the tune of Rs 24,107 crore for rice being supplied under Anna Bhagya, while the Siddaramaiah government’s contribution is a paltry Rs 2,994 crore.
 
 Anna Bhagya: Food security for poor
 
 Anna Bhagya, which aims to eradicate hunger, provides food security to 1.08 crore families (covering nearly four crore people) across the state. Each beneficiary is entitled to 7kgs of rice and 1kg of wheat free of cost. Cooking oil is given at a highly subsidized price of Rs 25 per litre and iodised salt at Rs 2 per packet. The programme also provides 1kg of dal per BPL family.
 
 
