KANYAKUMARI: To create awareness on Swachh Bharat, 53-year-old N   has pedalled all the way from Kashmir to Kanyakumari covering more than 3,500 kilometres in 33 days. Interestingly, he completed the expedition on Wednesday in his grandfather’s 143-year-old bicycle. Srinivasacharyulu who is a civilian in the Indian Navy said this would be his last expedition.

  The cyclist started from Kashmir on February 2 and reached Chennai on the 28th of the month and Kanyakumari on Wednesday (March 7) afternoon. Covering more than 100 kms a day, he has even covered a maximum of 160 kms a day.
 
 Though the K to K expedition is the longest he has covered on the bicycle, he told TOI that he has been on quite a few expeditions from early 1990s to the year 2000. This includes the 2,000 km Calcutta to Kanyakumari expedition in 2000, which was his previous longest expedition. “I have not gone on any expedition since then,” he said.
 
 During the expedition he started at 4 am and visited schools on the way around 8 am. He took a couple of minutes to explain students and NCC cadets on the purpose of his expedition, the need to keep the surroundings clean and distributed awareness pamphlets to them before he continued pedalling. He also engaged in awareness when he came across a group of people.
 
 “I made up the time lost in campaigning by pedalling in the afternoon. I stayed at Gurudwaras, temples and police stations,” he said.
 
 Srinivasacharyulu has reasons to substantiate the reason behind pedalling his grandfather  , a farmer. “He gave it to my father N B   (who was also in the defence service), who in turn passed it on to me,” he said. According to the cyclist, the grand old bicycle also has many advantages over the modern-day race cycles.
 
 “Race cycles have gears and a lot of accessories for which we don’t get spares in villages through which we go on expeditions. Some of the accessories can be bought only in metros and there is a waiting time that will spoil the spirit of pedalling. My cycle has a sturdy frame and its accessories are easily available in villages too,” he chuckled. Though the tyre, tube and rim have been changed from time to time the frame is still 143-years-old.
 
 After reaching Tirunelveli on Tuesday he started to Kanyakumari to complete the final leg of 86 kms at 8 am on Wednesday and reached Kanyakumari around 1 pm. “I was supposed to complete the expedition on March 14, but managed to complete a week in advance. I am in sound health and have driven across the length and breadth of the country and it is time to retire from cycling,” he concluded. 
 
 
