THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Revenue minister   ordered land revenue commissioner AT   to conduct an inquiry after Thiruvananthapuram subcollector Divya S Iyer issued an order cancelling the proceedings of   tahsildar to take over 27 cents of puramboke land that was illegally held by a private individual.

 “News reports in this regard appeared in the media over the past two days. I have asked the land revenue commissioner to examine the matter and give a report at the earliest. Had the aggrieved party been a private individual, the natural course would be to seek an appeal before the district collector. Since government is the aggrieved party, I asked the land revenue commissioner to consider this matter,” he said.
 
 Varkala   V Joy, who took up the matter with the revenue minister on Friday, approached chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Monday seeking a vigilance probe. Meanwhile, Iyer’s husband MLA KS Sabarinadhan defended her and expressed surprise over Joy’s actions. “I clarified to Joy, in private, that both of us do not discuss official matters at home and he was convinced then. I find it mysterious that he went ahead with a complaint that I intervened in this matter,” said Sabarinadhan in a Facebook post.
 
 The MLA said that it was unfair to drag one’s personal life into the matter. He added that if there is any objection to a government official’s action – who is working sincerely as part of the government – based on available facts and the court order, one can take legal recourse. He also said that the people have confidence in his family for serving the masses.
 
 The issue saw a political turn, after allegations were raised that the beneficiary of the subcollector’s action was close to the family of Sabarinadhan, whose father and former   leader G Karthikeyan was a native of Varkala. The decision of the subcollector last week – to cancel the proceedings of the tahsildar evicting a private individual who has been occupying 27 cents of puramboke land in Ayiroor in Varkala – had kicked up a row after revenue officials and the MLA took exception to the matter. They said that the land was proposed for Ayiroor police station building.
 
