Chandigarh: A day after selling pakoras to chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar, Congress MLAs on Wednesday walked to the Haryana assembly with sugarcane plants to highlight the plight of cane growers on the third day of the budget session. Led by Palwal MLA Karan Singh Dalal, the Congress MLAs raised slogans while accusing the state government of forcing cane growers into bankruptcy.

 Khattar advised the Congress legislators to maintain the dignity of cane growers. He discouraged them to follow such practices. 
 
 In the assembly, heated arguments ensued between Congress MLAs Dalal, Kuldeep Sharma, R S Kadian and agriculture minister O P Dhankar, social justice minister Krishan Kumar Bedi and labour minister Nayab Singh Saini over the plight of cane growers. The ministers claimed that the cane growers were being paid the highest price in Haryana and their produce was being procured by the sugar mills of the state, which were told to operate for two more months after the end of the crushing season.
 
 Sharma, Dalal and Kadian reiterated the government rider in procuring sugarcane on the state advised price (SAP). “The increased price is just an impression as farmers are not able to sell their entire produce on those rates, hence they are forced to take sugarcane to the mills in Uttar Pradesh. Despite bearing the cost of transportation, the farmer is forced to sell his produce at throwaway prices,” said former speaker Sharma.
 
 Like the zero hour, the discussion on governor Kaptan Singh Solanki’s address also attracted criticism from Congress MLAs. Referring to law and order, Sharma accused the government of failing to control the entry of Dera Sacha Sauda followers in the state when Gurmeet Ram Rahim was convicted of rape in August 2017. “First the government allowed the dera followers to assemble in violation of the orders. Later, it used paramilitary force to control the mobs resulting in 38 deaths. Similar was the scene in the case of violence during the Jat agitation for reservation in February 2016. One MP, who provoked all, was set free, the police acted as a mute spectator and the action by paramilitary resulted in the deaths of innocent,” he alleged.
 
 Odd man out
 
 Tek Chand Sharma, the lone BSP MLA of Haryana, seems to be the odd man out. Notwithstanding the fact that his party supremo Mayawati had been taking a stand against BJP and its leaders, Sharma was all praise for chief minister Khattar and the saffron party’s rule in Haryana.
 
 
