PUNE: The cybercrime cell of the Pune police busted an illegal international call centre at   on Thursday night, and arrested two operators for cheating 175 US nationals to the tune of Rs 10.5 lakh since August 2017. 

 Aditya Kale and  , the two 29-year-old call centre operators, have been sent in police remand till Sunday. 
 
 "The call centre had tied up with an American advertising agency to send pop-up ads on smartphones and tablets of the targeted US citizens. If an unsuspecting victim ever clicked on the pop-up, his/her device would immediately get locked. Later, the victim would receive a message to contact a specific number and pay a certain amount (in dollars) to get the phone unlocked,"  , the deputy commissioner of police (cyber and economics), told TOI on Saturday.
 
 The fraud came to light after a team, led by inspector   and assistant inspector  , raided the call centre office - at 515 City Vista in Kharadi - following a tip-off about the establishment's involvement in cheating the US nationals. The police team recovered six hard discs, a laptop, a wireless computer network router and five handsets. The police are also in the process of contacting appropriate authorities through the US consulate in India.
 
 Kale and Mathur had jointly opened the call centre and had appointed four employees trained to speak in an American accent. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 The duo was arrested under Sections 420 (cheating) and 34 (common intention) of the IPC, and 66(d) [punishment for cheating by personation by using computer resource] and 75 (act to apply for offence or contravention committed outside India) of the Information TechnologyAct.
 
 Assistant inspector Panmand, also the complainant in the case, said, “The pop-up ads sent to the targeted victims on smartphones and tablets, cannot be closed. If one clicked on one of these pops-ups, he/she received a text message claiming the iOS (iPhone operating system) had crashed, and to remove theerror one mustcallon atoll-free number.”
 
 According to Panmand, “When the victim called the toll-free number, the call got connected via internet to a laptop, and the call was attended by one of the call centre employees. The employee then told the caller that the device had crashed and he/she must buy an iTune card — costing between $50 and $100 (Rs 3,150 and Rs 6,300) — to rectify the problem.”
 
 Hesaid, “Theunsuspecting victims followed the instructions and purchased the cards. They then shared the iTune card numbers withthecallcentre. These numbers were forwarded to a man (name withheld) in Rajasthan, who in turn, routed the dollars through some other country to get them converted to Indian currency. The man deducted his commission and transferred the remaining amount tothecallcentre’s account.”
 
 Inspector Pawar said, “We have questioned the operators’ employees, but prima facie there is no evidenceof their involvement. We have concluded that the call centre is illegal after the suspects failed to furnish permissions obtained from the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India and others.”
 
 “This is the first time we have registered a caseof cheating US nationals at the Chandannagar police station. We have frozen the call centre’s bank account containing Rs1.32 crore. The operators — Kale and Mathur — have past experience of working in variousITcompanies and they met each other through a common friend. They started the call centre on a partnership basis and operated as per US timings. The duo recruited four persons,” Pawar added.
 
 “The police have been working on thecasefor the past to months,” hesaid.
 
 
 
