 is a delicate time in a woman’s life and care needs to be taken at all costs. Understanding your body is important and so is being active. As per the American Pregnancy Association, being active and working out during pregnancy is great to ease those labour pains and also have a smooth delivery. 

 We got in touch with Kavita Das Basak, yoga expert at the Yoga Chakra to give us some guidelines on   and a sample workout you can do. 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 1. MARJARI ASANA- cat pose: Sit on your fours. Let your body form a table on the floor. Your hands and thighs should be perpendicular to the floor. Next, as you inhale, raise your chin, your tummy should inflate with air, tailbone should rise and arms to remain straight. While coming back, your chin should touch your chest area, back and stomach should form an arc and arms should stay perpendicular again. Repeat this for 6-7 times. 
 
 2.VIRASANA: Kneel on the floor and sit down. Your hips should be on the floor and feet on the side. Stretch your arms forward. Your back should remain straight and erect. Inhale and exhale and remain there for a minute. 
 
 3. ADHO MUKHA SVANASANA: Also known as the downward dog, this pose should be done keeping in mind your belly support. Come on your fours. Let your hands and feet remain on the floor while you form a V position. Remember to keep your back stretched and legs straight. Inhale and exhale while pushing your upper back inside to feel the stretch. Remain there for 60 seconds. 
 
 4. VIR BHADRASANA 2: Stand with your hands and feet apart. Next, bend your right knee and move forward. Your left leg should remain on the floor and straight while going forward. Your arms should be at shoulder level and back to be erect. Repeat this with your other side. Remain on one side for 60-70 seconds. 
 
 5. UTHITA PARSVAKONASANA: Stand straight with legs apart. Now, bend your right leg and go forward. Your right thigh and calf should maintain a 90 degree angle. After this, stretch your left arm over your head and your right hand should on the other side. Your right arm should not bend. Look up and inhale and exhale. Repeat the same with your other side. 
 
 6. BALASANA: Kneel down and sit on your hips. Stretch your arms forward and go down. Try and touch your forehead on the floor. Breathe in and out. If you feel uncomfortable, keep a pillow under your hips to maintain support. 
 
 7. UTTHITA TRIKONASANA: Stand with arms and legs apart. Move your right leg forward without bending it. Stretch your arms and go down on your right side. Let your arms and legs remain straight. Your right arm can go behind your right leg and left arm stretched straight over your head. Repeat this with the other side. 
 
 8. VRIKSHASANA: Stand straight. Now extend your arms and bring them over your head and join your palms. After this, bend your right leg and place your foot on the left knee. Remain in this position for 20- 30 seconds. 
 
 9. MALASANA: Stand straight and bend down on your knees. Keep your legs parallel while bending your knees and come down on your feet. Now, open your knees and slowly move your head forward. You can bend your elbows and keep your hands on your feet. Remain in this position. 
 
 10. SETU BANDHASANA: Lie down on your back. Bend your knees and place your hands on the sides of your body. Next, lift your abdominal area. You can use your hands to raise your back and give support. Breathe in and out. Remain in this position for 15-20 seconds. 
 
 11. UPAVISTA KONASANA: Do this pose only if you are comfortable. Sit on the floor. Keep your back straight. Next, open your legs as wide as you can. Now, extend your arms and move forward. Stretch only till the point you are comfortable. 
 
 12. MARICHYASANA: Sit down and stretch your legs forward. Now, bend your left knee and keep your right leg firm on the floor. Next, move forward while extending your arms at the back. Join your hands at the back. Remain in this position. Repeat this with the other side. 
 
 13. TADASANA: Stand straight, keep your back erect and hands on the sides. Extend your arms above your head and breathe in. 
 
 14. VIR BHADRASANA 1: Stand in tadasana. Take your right leg forward and bend your knee. Let your left leg remain at the back and stretched. Extend your arms over your head. You will feel a stretch on your thighs and calf muscles. Repeat on the other side. 
 
 15. MATSYASANA PREP: Lie down on your back. Keep your arms on the sides. Now, raise your back and stay on top of your head. Your back should form an arc while keeping your elbows and forearms on the floor. Keep your legs straight and breathe in and out. 
 
 As per Kavita, following are the guidelines for the new mothers practising prenatal yoga:
 
 
 1. During early period of pregnancy upto around 13th week, pregnant women should take it easy as they adjust to changing hormones and energy during an often intense and delicate period of transformation. 
 
 2. This is time for getting more grounded, slowing down a bit, focussing more on the inside and creating a favourable environment for the ovum to grow into a healthy fetus. 
 
 3. Do not jolt, do more of pelvic awareness exercises and add variety of shoulder strengtheners and openers. The fetus is small during first trimester and is well protected inside the pelvis so till first trimester students can lie on their belly.
 
 
 
 1. In the second trimester, with the placenta fully functional, hormone levels balance out and the pregnancy is generally established. This is the perfect time to focus on cultivating strength and stamina, to refine awareness of the pelvis and spine and to build more internal support. 
 
 2. Size of the belly start varying in the second trimester. The pelvis no longer protects the uterus so this is the time to adapt asanas accordingly. 
 
 3. Avoid jarring movements, intense abdominal work like Navasana or Kapalbhati pranayama. 
 
 4. Avoid pressure on the abdomen. It is important to develop a supple belly. 
 
 5. Use pelvic neutrality exercises like Tadasana and Urdhva hastasana to cultivate alignment of spine. 
 
 6. Practice standing asanas to develop and maintain leg strength and open hips and pelvis. 
 
 7. Can explore a variety of hip openers.
 
 
 
 1. Reaching third trimester, continue working on postural alignment to give support to the spine. 
 
 2. Use props like chairs and wall to support your asanas. 
 
 3. Become aware of the numbness or tingling sensation when lying on your back as this may be an indication of excessive pressure on the vena cava. 
 
 4. After 34th week no inversions to be tried at all. 
 
 5. Begin doing birthing visualization and other abducted hip opening positions. 
 
 And moreover rest, eat healthy, be around loved one's, listen to music, read, paint, laugh, pray, love and stay happy!
  
 
 
 
