CHENNAI: A lawyer who was chided by Madras high court and made to face CB-CID probe for having received about 2 crore as legal fee from the families of children killed in the 2004   school fire, has received a conditional relief from the  . 

 Setting aside the portion of the high court order which directed CB-CID action and other penal against advocate S Tamilarasan, the Supreme Court, however, made it clear that he should deposit 50 lakh in the high court within three weeks. a division bench of Justice   and Justice Mohan M Shantanagoundar also said: 
 
 Adding that the other directions of the high court including suspension of licence to practise, and registration of criminal case shall be stayed, the bench said: "We make it clear that in case any similarly situated victims approach the high court, the advocate shall deposit the amount at the rate of 1 lakh each in the case of such people. However, we also make it clear that in case only 25 people claim the amounts of refund at the rate of 1 lakh, the balance shall be disbursed to the advocate, after three months." 
 
 On April 27, a division bench of the high court passed the directions on the pleas moved by the families of the victims seeking action against their counsel   who allegedly collected more than 2 lakh each from out of the compensation package, as legal fee. 
 
 According to one of the victim U Marimuthu, after a delay of nearly 10 years after the incident and in view of a court order, the state government awarded compensation ranging from 5 lakh to 8 lakh to the parents of the victims along with interest. On December 21, 2016, the compensation was deposited in Marimuthu's bank account. 
 
 Tamilarasan, however, submitted that he had fought the case for more than 13 years and that he had to visit Delhi and the Supreme Court several times to conduct the case. Except 1 lakh each to the victims' kin, state government did not give anything till he move the court and obtained orders for constitution of a one-man commission. Tamilarasan's senior counsel S   argued in the high court that it was just legal fee over which the court had no say at all. 
 
 
