Mumbai: Kolkata-based   has been restricted from granting loans and raising high-cost deposits following worsening financials. Also, its board has convened a meeting to discuss CEO   being chargesheeted in the Nirav Modi scam. This comes close on the heels after the central lender barred   from lending. In a statement to the stock exchanges, Allahabad Bank said the   has advised it of certain additional actions, which are restriction in expansion of loans, reduction in exposure to un-rated and high-risk advances, and to restrict creation of non-banking assets. This means that besides not expanding loans, the bank is barred from making any fresh capital investments. tnn

 Last week, the RBI had placed similar restrictions on Dena Bank. Both Dena Bank and Allahabad Bank are among the 11 public sector banks that have been placed under prompt corrective action (PCA) by the RBI. The latest round of measures were taken with respect to the bank’s capital-to-risk weighted assets ratio and leverage ratio position, Allahabad Bank said.
 
 According to the revised PCA guidelines released last year, if a lender enters ‘risk threshold 3’, it may be a candidate for amalgamation, reconstruction or could even be wound up. Capital, net NPAs, return on assets (RoA) and tier-1 leverage ratio, etc are among the many metrics used to gauge how weak a lender is.
 
 Under the PCA, banks face restrictions on distributing dividends and remitting profits. The owner may be asked to infuse capital into the lender. That apart, lenders would also be stopped from expanding their branch networks. It would need to maintain higher provisions and management compensation and directors’ fees would be capped.
 
 Last week, Allahabad Bank reported a stand-alone net loss of nearly Rs 3,510 crore for the last quarter ended March of 2017-18 due to more than three-time rise in its provisions for bad loans.
 
 The bank had registered a net profit of just over Rs 111 crore in the same quarter of preceding fiscal 2016-17. The lender had reported a loss of close to Rs 1,264 crore in the previous December quarter.
 
 The provisioning for bad loans spurted to Rs 5,126 crore during the March quarter against Rs 1,490 crore in the year-ago quarter, according to the regulatory filing by the bank.
 
 
