NEW DELHI: The syringe controversy, which rocked the Indian contingent ahead of the   CWG, has prompted the sports ministry to do some plain speaking with the Indian Olympic Association (IOA). To avoid such blunders in the future, the ministry has instructed the IOA to make sure that only officials with sound knowledge of the rules and regulations are part of the contingent during the conduct of multi-sport events, including the stay at the athletes’ village.

 
 
 
 Sports minister Rajyavardhan Singh Rathore told TOI on Tuesday that the ministry was in the constant touch with IOA officials in Gold Coast to resolve the issue at the earliest and get the focus back on India’s medal rush at the Games.
 
 “The IOA should take the right people along who are well versed with the rules governing the conduct of the Games. This controversy could have been avoided. The IOA should ensure that the accompanying officials have the knowledge of rules while finalising the contingent in future,” reacted Rathore.
 
 
 
 
 
 On Tuesday, Dr Amol Patil, who had accompanied the boxing contingent as team doctor, was handed a “strong written reprimand” by the   Federations’ (CGF) court for breaching the ‘No Needle Policy’ of the CWG. It’s learnt that Dr Patil completed his MBBS course only a couple of years back, which means he wasn’t experienced enough to handle the situation but was still named by the Boxing Federation of India (BFI) as a team doctor. However, as a matter of fact, it was the ministry which had struck off the name of IOA’s chief medical officer Arun K Mendiratta from the contingent list.
 
 
 
 
 
 On another issue of badminton player Saina Nehwal’s dramatic threat to pull out of the CWG if her father Harvir Singh wasn’t provided with an official accreditation to stay at the athletes’ village, Rathore informed that the ministry has provided the necessary support to get his accommodation done.
 
 However, Saina’s armtwisting has not gone down well with some sports officials in India as the names of Saina’s father and P V Sindhu’s mother Vijaya Pusarla were cleared as “extra officials” at no cost to the government.
 
 Another news had trickled down from Gold Coast that Indian weightlifting’s chief physio, Akrant Saxena, had been asked by the organisers to leave the village since his accreditation read ‘personal coach’ to S Mirabai Chanu. According to CWG rules, personal coaches can’t stay in the village. The goof-up happened after the Indians failed to clarify that Saxena was the physio of the team and not a personal coach. This forced Saxena to look for his accommodation outside the village, leaving the lifters without a physio just ahead of competition time.
 
 However, Rathore informed that the physio will soon be accommodated at the village. “We will make sure that our lifters don’t suffer.”
 
 
