Many may have heard about the   in Egmore and its stringent entry procedures, how those willing to hit the bulls eye required more than just money and enthusiasm to set their feet in the range. Paper work, a recommendation from a senior police officer and a mandatory police verification, being a club member was anything but easy.

 
 But all that is set to change, at least for students aspiring to grab the gun and hit the target. The club has launched a students coaching programme in air rifle and air pistol events. Children who are above 10 years can enroll for training at the club that functions out of the old police commissioner’s office on Pantheon Road. 
  
 
 
 The club has engaged national-level shooters — Prem Sai and Rajath — to coach students in basic and advanced skills. The club has contacted schools in Chennai and would train around 200 students per year. Children can undergo training in the 10m range — which has stateof-the-art   — for air rifle and air pistol events.
 
 
 Those willing can enroll for training by paying an entry fee of Rs 2,000, an annual subscription fee of Rs 750 and a yearly coaching fee of Rs 3,000. Coaching classes will be conducted daily from 6am to 8am and from 3pm to 7pm.
  
 
 
 Chennai police commissioner  , who inaugurated the programme, said, “This is a good opportunity for interested students who want to take up shooting.” 
 
 “Money should in no way dampen their spirits. We are ready to help the deserving ones in getting trained and they can contact us,” the commissioner said adding that he hoped the club would produce shooters of international quality.
 
 
 Besides shooting, the coaching routine will include yoga classes for mental conditioning and physical training. Periodic practical and theoretical evaluation tests will be conducted. The scheme aims to inculcate the   and discipline among children.
 
 
 Those who excel will be fielded in the forthcoming 44th Tamil Nadu   to be held in Madurai. Tamil Nadu Shooting Association secretary R Ravi Krishnan said the club had been doing “its best” to develop the sport in the city. “This programme will help in churning out more quality shooters,” he said.
 
 
 Vignesh, a student who is looking forward to hitting the target, said till two years ago very few people in Chennai were interested in shooting. “But that’s changing now with Indian shooters winning at international events. I am excited and would want to hold a pistol,” he said.
 
