Every evening after the day's classes are done, martial arts teacher Naresh Babu walks across to the picturesque 110-year-old Ooty railway station, settles on a bench that overlooks an old steam engine, pulls out his phone and logs on to free internet.

 
 The next couple of hours are spent checking email, uploading his training videos, looking up competitions for his students, watching clips of childhood heroes   and Jet Li, and picking up new techniques to pass on to students. "I can see what's happening around the world and update my skills as well as watch videos of old masters who are no more," says Babu, 37, who bought himself an Android phone in early 2016 and discovered free   a few months later. His academy,  , has about 25 students, up from 15 a year ago when he started uploading his training videos and advertising online.
 
  
  
 The government's Railtel and   partnered in 2016 to provide free high-speed Wi-Fi in more than 400 railway stations in India, and it's already available at 389 stations. People like Babu, who are unable to use high-speed internet at home due to its high cost, benefit the most.
 
 
 
  
 
 "An estimated 15,000 people come online every day. This project with Railtel was our first to improve access to the internet in public areas," says K Suri, director of partnerships, Next Billion Users, Google India. Railtel Wi-Fi has 7.7 million monthly users, he says.
 
 Access to information and the internet has been shown to transform public spaces. A 2013 white paper by Institute for a Broadband-enabled Society, University of Melbourne, observed: "Australian public institutions and municipalities are beginning to find benefits in deploying   services including: enhancing communities, bolstering local economies, marketing and communications..."
 
 There are many examples closer to home, too. The introduction of free internet in 2015 turned Lucknow's Hazratganj into a youth hangout. "Hazratganj became very popular with youngsters. You could see them sitting around on benches till as late as 2am," says Pankaj Bhadouria, chef and owner of Tramp Tree Café in Hazratganj.
 
 Patna has India's longest free Wi-Fi corridor - from   to Danapur, covering about 20km. Conversation threads on Quora reveal that the internet speed on this stretch is good and it is common to see groups of youngsters hanging out at bus stops, using the internet.
 
 At the noisy Kochi station, 27-year-old porter Sreenath K walks with suitcases perched on his head, bags dangling from his shoulders and earphones plugged in. No, he's not tuning in to the local FM station, he's listening to tutorials he has downloaded to prep for the Kerala Public Service Commission Examination, using free internet at the station.
 
  
  
 Access to quality material online helped him clear the written test this year with 82% marks. Now, he's waiting for the interview call and continues to study at the station. "I wrote the exam thrice earlier but relied only on books and guides. They didn't help much and it was expensive," says Sreenath, a school dropout.
 
 
 
 
  
 
 "Working as a coolie earns me Rs 300-400 a day. It used to pay more a few years ago. Now, with luggage with wheels, escalators and lifts at the station, passengers can carry their own load. Our work has suffered," says Sreenath. If he clears the interview, he will start as a village field assistant, with a pay scale of Rs 17,500-Rs 37,500. "Now back to my video lessons to work towards that dream," he says.
 
 
 
 
