CHENNAI: Hospitals in Tamil Nadu will no longer be able to demand blood from relatives of patients for surgeries. Those that do will be punished or even temporarily shut until they replenish adequate stock in their blood banks,   director   has said.

 The state’s blood policy, to be rolled out by January-end, was approved last week by an expert committee after public comments. “Hospitals like all other service providers should ensure customers are not harassed. Asking relatives to arrange for blood even for elective surgeries can be traumatic,” he said.
 
 
 
 
 Tamil Nadu Aids Control Society project director K Senthil Raj, said, “We will ensure this is not done anymore. Blood banks must look at safer methods such as periodic blood donation camps,” said Senthil.
 
 The policy, which promises safe blood within a 45-minute radius of all hospitals, will not deny pregnant women blood for economic reasons. “... If we have better coordination between monitoring agencies, public, private and not-for-profit blood banks we will be able to ensure timely blood to all patients,” said health secretary  .
 
 The state plans to make registration of all pregnancies mandatory, and would-be mothers will be given a Pregnancy Infant Cohort Monitoring Evaluation (PICME) number. As an incentive, the policy says, cost of transfusion in registered pregnancies will be reimbursed to the hospital under the Janani Shishu Suraksha Karyakram free blood services fund.
 
 In a state, where more than 55% of women in the fertile age group suffer from anaemia, the state programme is expected to bring down deaths as well as cost of care, say doctors. “In many instances women suffer severe haemorrhage after delivery. Many smaller hospitals transport them to referral centres at a critical state. This will now stop,” said Dr  , who heads the Government Hospital for Women and Children.
 
 The 264 blood banks and more than 500 blood storage centres will be coordinated by the State Blood Transfusion Council under chairmanship of the chief secretary to oversee the functioning of various district level planning and coordination bodies.
 
 The health department plans GIS mapping of blood banks to visualise real-time availability of blood and blood products in all blood banks, besides an online platform that will provide information on blood availability to users, create a pool of safe repeat donors and inform banks the geographical locations of donors with rare blood group.
 
 The department, in co-ordination with NGOs, will track donors through Aadhaar linked unique ID. “We will have an idea of where and from whom we can get some rare blood groups. We will also be able to catch infection early and help them take treatment,” said Dr Senthil Raj. The district blood authority will ensure at least 20% of the blood stock will comprise rare blood groups such as O negative.
 
 
 
