PANAJI: It had barely been an hour since the painting exhibition at Kala Academy in Panaji opened on Monday, when Class X student Abzan Husensab Malakba’s abstract artwork earned the red dot, indicating his untitled painting had been sold. His bold brush strokes not only belie the age of the artist, but also that he is a slow learner.

 Abzan’s artworks are one among 80-odd paintings on display at Kala Academy, painted by   with a range of disabilities from intellectual and hearing impairment to learning issues. The art show is the first such full-fledged one to be organised by Goa’s only state-run special education institute,  , for students of Porvorim, Vasco, and Curchorem centres.
 
 Ketan Kuncolkar, a hearing impaired Class VII student, has already been recognised for his talent with a nomination at the state’s Balshree awards. Ketan’s minimalistic depiction of a church only using strokes of black paint is nothing short of stunning.
 
 “Sanjay School holds an annual exhibition of craft works by students, where greeting cards, etc, are sold,” said Guruprasad Pawaskar, chairman of Sanjay Centre for Special Education.
 
 The centre has over 750 students across Goa.
 
  “It was when a potrait of Swami Vivekanand by one of our students earned a place in the chief minister’s office at the assembly complex that chief minister Manohar Parrikar came up with the idea that we should have an exclusive art show of our students’ paintings.” 
 
 But what is really striking is Pawaskar’s assertion that the stunning artworks at the exhibition did not even go through a selection process. “Art is an important part of the curriculum for special children,” said Tatu Kudalkar, principal, Sanjay School, Porvorim. “This is because — and we can tell from experience — 90% children with special needs are talented artists. This is how they express themselves.” 
 
 The proceeds from the sales at this exhibition, which is on till 7pm on April 12, will go entirely to the little painters.Each painting is priced between Rs 1,500 and Rs 2,500.
 
 Some of the artists are not just children with special needs, but are also orphans, abandoned by their parents due to their disability, and living in an orphanage near the Sanjay centre in Curchorem. The youngest artist to have her painting on display is a lower kindergarten (LKG) student, Kehkashan Usmain Shaikh, a slow learner. 
 
 “Buyers are finding these paintings a steal thanks to their professional quality and low price,” said Pawaskar. “Because of the impressive quality of the paintings, we have decided that the proceeds should go entirely to the students for their efforts. The paintings may be sold for a small amount, but will go a long way to encourage the children to pursue their talent further.”
 
 
