CHANDIGARH: On the face of it, school authorities said they were happy with Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s “pariksha pe charcha.” But the sentiments expressed by students and teachers were not in consonance with this. 

 The talk evoked mixed feelings in the city. For starters, it started at 12.15pm despite the designated time of 10.30am. Then, it continued for two hours instead of the designated one hour. 
 
 Bhag Singh Kairon, a government school teacher and president,   said, “Instead of wasting money on such books and talks, the government should focus on enhancing job opportunities and regulating spiralling cut-off percentage, which is the main cause of stress.” Teachers also felt the activity wasted students’ time. 
 
 “Nothing to say on what PM said but students lost four hours of precious study time. Already, students of classes IX and X have lost 10 to 15 days of studies in self-defence training funded under RMSA and now traffic police is organising four days self-defence training for students of classes IX and X. Since last month, two teachers from each school were on 15-day maths and science seminar held in SCERT and other venues,” said  , president SSA teachers welfare Association. 
 
 He said such programmes have led to loss of revision time, the effect of which will be seen in the board exams. A few educators questioned the PM’s expertise in the subject and said the lecture had nothing much to offer. They said while students paid attention, they did not find anything worth taking home. “This is what I have been hearing from my teachers and parents and it has not helped relieve my stress and this was no different,” said  , a class XII student.
 
 According to Snigdha Suri, a Class IX student, “They should not have given so much time to cultural events. It was too long. But I did like the examples he shared like that of famous people and their failures.” 
 
 A school principal said, “They should have informed us about the change in time in advance. My students were sitting in the sun from 10am to 2.30pm and then we are teaching them about time management. I felt sorry for the children. They were drained by the time the talk started and seemed disinterested.” In many schools, students were seen yawning and evidently bored. A few took a nap. They felt it would have been better if they did not have cultural performances and extra speeches.
 
 However, a few students said they could use the stress relieving techniques outlined by the PM. A hawan was organised in DAV Senior Secondary School (Lahore), Sector 8-C, Chandigarh. Both the staff and students participated in the ceremony, seeking blessings of the Almighty for success in the upcoming board examinations. The hawan was followed by a review of the book, “Exam Warriors” by Prime Minister  .
 
 Teams from education department, Chandigarh administration were on the round to see if things were going smooth in schools.
 
 
