VIJAYAWADA: Union home minister Rajnath Singh appears to have salvaged from brink the tottering TDP-BJP alliance, at least for the time being. He spoke to chief minister   on Sunday evening and told him not to take any hasty political decision with an assurance that he would make a statement in Parliament on allocations made and earmarked for  . 

 To the relief of BJP, Naidu also made it clear to his MPs the he did not have any telephonic conversation with   president Uddhav Thackeray, as claimed by Sena sources on Saturday. 
 
 The crucial call from Delhi came, on a day Naidu was closeted with parliamentary party MPs (TDP has 15   and four Rajya Sabha members) in a crucial meeting in Vijayawada that discussed the future of the party's alliance with BJP both in the state and at the Centre. 
 
 "During the 16-minute conversation, the Union home minister told the AP CM he was calling at the behest of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and BJP national president   would also talk to him soon. All grievances of TDP will be heard and addressed, was Rajnath's assurance to Naidu," a TDP leader told TOI. The Union home minister's gambit appears to have paid off as Naidu appears to have assured Rajnath the alliance between the two parties is intact for now. 
 
 
 
 On his part, Naidu told Rajnath that both people of the state and TDP ranks were unhappy with the treatment meted out to Andhra Pradesh in the Union budget. “It is a matter of Andhra Pradesh’s self-respect. How long should the state wait for justice? Promises made in the AP Reorganisation Act are not being kept and people are losing faith in us,” Naidu told the Union minister.
 
 The CM made it clear to Rajnath that TDP MPs will continue with their protests in Parliament until issues concerning AP are addressed.
 
 This was confirmed by Union minister and TDP MP Sujana Chowdhary, who told the media after the parliamentary party meeting that his party members will vociferously raise the issue in Parliament on Monday.
 
 In what appears to be a strategic move by TDP, while party president Naidu sought to cool frayed tempers on both sides of the alliance, his leaders continued to keep up the heat by continuing with their criticism of the saffron party.
 
 “BJP does not care for southern states. To secure justice for the state, we are ready to resign from our elected posts,” TDP Anakapalli MP Avanti Srinivasa Rao told the media on Sunday.
 
 State BJP leaders too did not tone down belligerence, with BJP MLC Somu Veeraraju criticising Naidu and his style of functioning.
 
 It was at the TDP parliamentary party meeting that few MPs asked Naidu about his reported telephonic conversation with Sena chief Uddhav Thackeray, wherein he reportedly said the BJP was ignoring its allies. The CM made it clear to us there was no such conversation and TDP is firmly with the BJP, an MP said.
 
 Indications are that Naidu will wait for Rajnath’s statement in Parliament before moving forward on the issue of alliance. TDP sources said the AP CM would also wait to hear from BJP chief Amit Shah, as was assured by Rajnath Singh.
 
