Ghaziabad: A section of councillors of Ghaziabad Municipal Corporation has termed the board meeting of   ( ), scheduled to be held on Tuesday, as “unconstitutional” on the grounds of lack of public representation. 

 The GDA board is scheduled to meet for the first time after chief minister Yogi Aditya Nath assumed office last year.
 
 Councillor Rajendra Tyagi wrote to the principal secretary (housing) as well as to the GDA vice-chairperson on Monday highlighting that all members of the 14-member board have not been appointed. The GDA board is constituted under Section 4 of UP Urban Planning & Development Act, 1973.
 
 “Of the 14 members in the GDA board, seven are supposed to be appointed from outside the government. These include four members nominated by the municipal corporation and three members to be appointed by the state government. As of now, these seven members, who represent the general public, have not been named and the quorum is exactly 50%,” Tyagi told TOI.
 
 However, according to GDA, neither the state government nor the municipal corporation has sent their list of members to the board though the meeting’s agenda had been shared in advance. On Tuesday, the board is scheduled to discuss proposals including freezing of rates in Madhuban-Bapudham township scheme, change in plans of the proposed cyber hub and the sports city and a revised plan for the under-construction Weavers’ Mart. Projects worth Rs 300 crore, including a multi-level parking in Rajnagar District Center and a cultural project near the city forest are in the agenda of the Infrastructure Development Fund Committee, also to meet later on Tuesday.
 
 “Information about the board meeting and the agenda thereof have been circulated well0 in advance. The four members to be represented by the municipal corporation are required to be nominated by its board. If the board of the municipal corporation has nominated these members, they are rightfully due to participate in the proceedings of the meeting. The state government has also not sent the list of its representatives though intimated. There have been instances in the past when the board has met without the participation of the seven outside members. The board will meet as per schedule since several important infrastructure works are awaiting the nod,” GDA vice-chairperson Ritu Maheshwari told TOI. 
 
 
