WASHINGTON: US President   and India’s Prime Minister   could meet — or walk into each other — in Davos, Switzerland later this month.

 
 The White House announced on Tuesday that Trump would be attending the   meet starting on January 22, and word out of New Delhi is that Prime Minister Modi will be there too with a strong Indian contingent.
 
 "The President welcomes opportunities to advance his America First agenda with world leaders," White House press secretary Sarah Huckabee Sanders said in a statement. "At this year’s World Economic Forum, the President looks forward to promoting his policies to strengthen American businesses, American industries, and American workers."
 
 The large Indian presence will include six Union ministers, two chief ministers, several top government officials and around 100 CEOs (chief executive officers), according to reports from New Delhi.
 
 This will be the first visit by an Indian Prime Minister to the WEF after Deve Gowda went there in 1997 during his short stay in office, and Narasimha Rao debuted India in 1994. 
 
 Prime Ministers Vajpayee and Manmohan Singh did not go there during the nearly 16 years they governed India.
 
 On the American side, President Clinton was the last to attend the Forum in 2000. Presidents Bush and Obama did not turn up in their 16 years in the White House.
 
 Last year, President   became the first Chinese leader to attend the meet, whose stated mission is "improving the state of the world by engaging business, political, academic, and other leaders of society to shape global, regional, and industry agendas."
 
 Although the annual conference primarily facilitates corporate and multinational honchos discussing world social and economic trends at panel discussions and over swish dinners, it is also known as a global schmoozefest at which the world’s rich and powerful, including world leaders, talk business.
 
 Modi and Trump met twice last year — in Washington DC and in Manila at the Asean meet. Davos might provide an early 2018 opportunity for them to catch up amid several wrinkles in the economic ties between the two countries.
 
 
