GANDHINAGAR: The   as well as the   on Tuesday claimed majority in 1,423 village panchayats. Elections were held for 1,127 panchayats, while others were declared samras under which   are selected through consensus and not through polls. 

 As panchayat elections are not fought on party symbols, the State Election Commission does not announce results on the basis of the performance of parties. The BJP had announced a felicitation function for the newly elected sarpanches on Tuesday. But the party cancelled the event because neither the sarpanches nor party workers reached the party headquarters, Kamalam, at Koba near Gandhinagar. Later, the party said no such function had been planned. Gujarat BJP president Jitu Vaghani and other top leaders were not at the party HQ either.
 
 “Seventy-five per cent to 80% of BJP-supported sarpanches have won,” Vaghani said. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s recent pro-farmer Union budget and the state government’s pro-farmer policies have helped us win most of the panchayats. Rural Gujarat has rejected the Congress propaganda. Pro-BJP sentiment prevails in a number of samras panchayats too.’’
 
 As for the felicitation ceremony, Vaghani said: “There was no function scheduled on Tuesday to felicitate sarpanches. A few Ahmedabad and Gandhinagar sarpanches wanted to visit the office to celebrate the party’s victory. I had programmes in Surendranagar so I was not at Kamalam.” He said the sarpanches would be felicitated soon.
 
 State Congress president Bharatsinh Solanki said: “Congress-backed sarpanches have won more than 70% of panchayats. Farmers and villagers have once again shown the door to the BJP for their anti-farmer, anti-rural policies.” Solanki said that the Congress had won 23 district panachayats and most of the taluka panchayats in 2015. “Moreover, we won most of the rural seats in the recent assembly elections,” he said. “The BJP is still ignoring the farmers and punishing them for not voting for it. Farmers are now facing the worst crisis; they have not got the minimum support price.”
 
 
