PATNA: Spread across 60 acres of land, the   in the state capital will soon have the first open theatre of the state. As a part of Patna Smart City Limited Project, Sri Krishna Smarak Vikas Samiti is to hold a meeting on May 11 and plans to open a public theatre by September. 

 When contacted, Patna divisional commissioner and samiti head Anand   said, “Many firms have shown their interest for this one-of-its-kind project, but four firms have been finalized. In the May 11 meeting, a request for proposal (RFP) will be made, which will be followed by the awarding of tenders to the firm till the end of June. After the allotment of tender, we will target for completing the entire project in the next three months.” He said it will be a national project and its total cost is yet to be discussed.
 
 Deliberating on the concept, Kishor said, “A 40’x22’ inflatable movie screen with an attached projection screen (commonly used for outdoor movies) and drive-in theatres will be installed. The best part of such screens is that the projection surface can be detached for ease. These can also survive gusty wind or dangerous weather conditions. It will include a separate sound system.” He said its location will be finalized in the meeting.
 
 On April 20 this year, the samiti decided to close down as many as 50 stalls of  , displaying a wide variety of handmade crafts, including a number of food outlets, due to the lesser number of footfalls. Kishor said the agency was supposed to deposit money, but it failed to do so and we were badly hit by revenue losses. “Then we decided to cancel the work order of Patna Haat,” he said.
 
 Kishor said, “We are planning to turn Gandhi Maidan into a city square, like other international cities where families gather at open spaces and enjoy their leisure time watching movies. Patna Haat was also put up with the same objective, though the plan could not survive for long. Initially, the plan is to screen movies which will be free of cost for all the visitors. However, we are yet to plan regarding the sitting arrangements.” 
 
 Although he said chairs will not be installed as the number of audiences may differ every now and then, so the area will be divided into some particular zones. “People will sit on the ground or in their vehicles for watching the movie,” he added.
 
 “The utilization of vacant space of Patna Haat will also be decided in the upcoming meeting. The basic idea is to provide enjoyment to the city residents; so food court,   or gym can be made in that space,” added Kishor.
 
 
