MOHALI: The   of the four-storeyed housing project in Peer Muchalla has sparked panic, forcing people living in flats constructed by other builders nearby to abandon their houses.

 Around 14 families have already shifted to safer places, while many more are planning to move out for the time being.
 
 Residents living in other housing towers built by separate builders started conducting meetings with the promoters to know the fate of their flats.
 
 Some of the residents said 11 families shifted the day the building collapsed, while TOI found four more families moved their goods and belongings out on Friday.
 
 Sunil Kumar, one of the residents, said, “We are scared to live in these flats now. I am shifting my family to a safer place. We may return after we are satisfied with the stability of the structures. At present, it does not seem safe to stay in these flats. The administration must get structure stability tests conducted of our flats.”
 
 Raj Kumar, Anil Kaushal and others living in towers constructed by   said they had conducted a meeting with the builders and they assured them that their towers are safe. Ankit Gupta of AV Infra Builder said, “The municipal corporation had recently conducted an inspection of our building and was satisfied. We have complied with all the structural stability norms.”
 
 There are around 15 towers of 12 flats each built by different builders in the area. All the towers are of the same design erected on stilts for parking space on ground floor with four flats on each floor.
 
 BOX
 
 Flats were ready for possession 
 
 The building which collapsed had 12 flats which would have been given for possession within two months, said a property dealer. Another housing tower adjoining the same building was under-construction. The dealer said, “We were looking for buyers for flats. Six people were supposed to deposit the earnest money for booking the flats next week. The possession of a two bedroom-hall-kitchen flat was to be given within two months at a cost of Rs 42 lakh to Rs 45 lakh.
 
 
