JAIPUR: In blatant violation of a Rajasthan High Court order, the city's   is carrying out illegal constructions on its premises. 

 Irony is, the illegal construction is being carried out just opposite the high court and around 2-km away from the   (JDA) headquarters. The JDA officials, however, appear to be in no mood to take action against the elite club, whose members include top bureaucrats and lawyers. The area has been declared an ecological zone and 'no construction zone' by the high court and the matter is pending before the Supreme Court. The club administration, nevertheless, has completed construction work of one roof top restaurant, while work of another roof top restatement is underway. A new construction at the club's entrance too is almost complete.
 
 The club is not only allegedly constructing an office building in violation of the court order, it is doing so without the permission of JDA. JDA Zone-1 deputy commissioner Birbal Singh said "The zone has not granted any kind of permission to the club administration. We have no knowledge about construction activities going on there. We will look into the matter."
 
 Rambagh Golf Club secretary Shrish Sancheti said, "We have received all permission from the JDA. It is all temporary construction and no permanent structures are being built." The club administration appears to have found an escape route and increasing construction area in ecological zone using iron pillars and wooden planks.
 
 Yogesh Yadav, president of the  , alleged, "The expansion is being done to serve liquor and food in golf course's open area. The constant human interference till late night would disturb the ecology and habitat of many wild birds, peacocks, owls, vultures and parrots that have made this their nesting place for many years,"
 
 He further alleged, "The construction is carried out in connivance with JDA officials. Despite several complaints no action was taken for so many days. The entire construction of club work has been completed . The civic bodies should demolish the illegal construction as it is in violation of the high court orders."
 
 However, Haulianlal Guite, secretary, JDA , said , " We have not received any complaint about construction activity at the Golf club now . Earlier, acting on the complaint the JDA had stopped the construction activity at the club." 
 
 It is alleged that the club is illegally utilizing 256 bighas of public land. The entire government land is 322 bigha. 
 
 
