Chandigarh: The treasury benches and AAP launched a joint attack on SAD after the motion of thanks on the governor’s address in the state assembly on the second day of the budget session. Bur before that, SAD-BJP forced adjournment of the assembly over the demand for waiving loans of farmers and farm labourers.

 The issue of sacrilege cases and political vendetta figured prominently in the House as Congress MLAs joined by AAP cornered Akalis over the issues of drugs and lawlessness and cases of sacrilege reported during their rule. When the session resumed after SAD leaders trooped to the well of the House, its leaders, including party president Sukhbir Badal and Bikram Majithia, were not present to take on the Congress and AAP.
 
 Dera Baba Nanak MLA Sukhjinder Randhawa lashed out at the Akalis for their misdeeds and said the incidents of religious sacrilege had deeply hurt the feelings of Punjabis all over the world. Randhawa accused the Akalis of engineering the sacrilege incidents just to divert attention from their growing failures at that time. Leader of Opposition Sukhpal Khaira appreciated the decision of the Congress government to investigate various allegations against the erstwhile SAD-BJP government by appointing a commission. He said that it should be made a permanent feature so that any case of political vendetta during the present Congress government too could be looked into.
 
 Legislators of SAD and BJP came to the assembly wearing black robes with placards to protest against the Congress government’s failure to fulfil its promise of a complete waiver. They demanded Rs 90,000 crore loan waiver for all farmers, including loans from nationalised and cooperative banks as well as private money lenders. Led by SAD president Sukhbir and Majithia, the SAD-BJP members trooped to the well of the House and shouted slogans against the state government. As the protests continued, the House was adjourned for 30 minutes.
 
 AAP seeks debate on farmers’ suicides
 
 AAP has sought a debate on the issue of suicides by farmers and Leader of Opposition Sukhpal Singh Khaira said the adjournment motion had been rejected by the speaker. The AAP members protested against it with a walkout.
 
 Bains tears papers
 
 Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) MLA Simarjit Singh Bains tore a paper and threw it on the floor after he was not allowed to raise the issue of SYL canal. The speaker pointed out that the matter was subjudice.
 
 Selection board to be reconstituted
 
 Chief minister Amarinder Singh told the House that reconstitution of the subordinate selection service board (SSSB), which was disbanded last month, was under process. He was responding to a question raised by Khaira relating to job fairs being held by the state government, during the question hour. Taking a dig at Khaira, Amarinder quipped that little knowledge was a dangerous thing.
 
 Sidelights
 
 Ø SAD’s former chief minister Parkash Singh Badal too attended the assembly session briefly and went straight to join his party members, who were protesting on the issue of debt waiver
 
 Ø Raising the issue of Punjabi youth killed in Iraq, Congress MLA Rana Gurjit said a delegation should meet the Centre so that such incidents do not happen in future. He demanded that the Centre should give one job and compensation to the families of those killed
 
 Ø Among those who came to the visitors’ gallery were former Union minister Preneet Kaur and nephew Nirvan Singh.
 
 Ø Akali MLA from Dera Bassi N K Sharma and Mohali Congress MLA Balbir Sidhu too had a heated exchange in the assembly session with both making allegations against each other
 
 Ø AAP’s MLA Baljinder Kaur alleged that the job fairs of the Congress government were a farce as youth were only being given offer letters and not actual jobs
 
 
