PUNE: Consumers can now get their disputes resolved through conciliation benches by paying Rs 1,000 before going in for   hearing, provided both the parties agree to settle the row. 

 For registering a complaint with MahaRERA, one has to pay Rs 5,000. This option can be selected before or after getting registered, provided both parties agree for conciliation, MahaRERA authorities said.
 
 The Maharashtra   Regulatory Authority (MahaRERA) announced this on its website and will set up 15 conciliation benches — 10 in Mumbai and 5 in Pune. The benches will try to work out a compromise formula before a consumer files a complaint under the Real Estate Regulation Act (RERA) or before the authority starts hearing a case. 
 
 On Wednesday, the MahaRERA conciliation forum announced its core committee. Its members included MahaRERA secretary   and representatives from the Mumbai Grahak Panchyat, NARDEDCO and Confederation of Real Estate Developers Association of India (Credai)-Maharashtra.
 
 Mumbai Grahak Panchayat members, who were instrumental for the conciliation bench concept and facilitated the entire process, said the operations will start from the end of January and a two-day workshop is being held in Mumbai for all members selected in the forum. 
 
 Mumbai Grahak Panchayat president   said the bench would aim at resolving the disputes fast and in an amicable way. 
 
 Prabhu said the citizens can click on the conciliation option and, if both the parties agree to go for it, pay Rs 1,000. Following this, the bench will be assigned the case. “Once the consumer clicks on the conciliation option, a request will be sent to the developer to respond. If the developer responds, the consumer has then to pay the fees. If the developer does not agree, MahaRERA is free to send the message to the builders’ bodies. If there is no response, then the case will be taken up by MahaRERA,” he said. 
 
 Both the developers and the consumers have been demanding a hearing before the actual case as this helps in speedy redressal,   said, adding that MahaRERA has registered 1,500 cases and orders have been issued for 566 of them.
 
 
