NEW DELHI: The Delhi government on Monday put the draft prepared by it on capping of profits by private hospitals in the public domain for scrutiny and feedback.

 
 After 30 days, the government will make amendments to the Delhi Nursing Homes Registration Act to make the draft policy changes legally binding, state health minister Satyendar Jain said. TOI had reported about the government’s plan on May 6.
 
 
  
  
 As per the policy draft, private hospitals and nursing homes will have to preferably prescribe from the National List of Essential Medicines, the prices of which are regulated by the central government.
 
 
 
 
 If any hospital or nursing home is found to be flouting the rule thereafter (once the act is amended), its licence will be cancelled,” Jain said.
 
 “For non-NLEM drugs and even disposables, we have decided that hospitals can charge a maximum 50% as mark-up against administrative/handling charges over and above its procurement or maximum retail price ( ), whichever is lesser,” the state health minister said, adding that there have been instances in the past in which private hospitals were found to have charged 1,000% to 1,700% margins on medicines and consumables.
 
 Compared to that, a 50% profit recommendation will be drastic cut. However, it is not clear how the government will ensure that the procurement price itself is not inflated to circumvent the process.
 
 The only printed information is MRP, which is found to be inflated in most cases to accommodate margins. When asked, Jain said they will match the procurement price of suspicious hospitals with that of state-run hospitals. “We also buy medicines. If the difference in procurement cost is significant, we will audit them and take action as per the law,” the health minister explained.
 
 In the case of implants, too, many consumer groups and patients have been raising the issue of over-pricing and profiteering by private hospitals. The Delhi government said it has fixed a mark-up of not more than 35% above the procurement price for that. “For investigations, the nine-member committee constituted by us could not come to a conclusion on the capping so the government has decided to form a separate committee to decide on that,” Jain said.
 
 The government draft has also suggested fixed pricing for packages for various procedures. Also, it suggests that any additional procedure performed on the patient who has opted for a particular package shall be charged at 50% of its original rate and that patients should be offered the choice of opting for a high-risk package that covers all possible complications and that it should not cost more than 20% higher. Jain said he often gets complaints that a hospital gave an estimate of say Rs 1 lakh for a procedure but the final bill was over Rs 5 lakh due to complications.
 
 “How will a middle-class person budget for such an escalation in estimated price? They should be told about it in advance,” he added. The health minister clarified that if the package rate of a particular hospital is too high, patients will have the choice to opt for a hospital with a cheaper package rate. One controversial suggestion made by the government committee is that if a patient dies within six hours of admission, 50% of the charges should be waived. And if the patient dies within 24 hours of admission, 20% fees must be waived. Officials said the committee members were themselves divided on this and it will be included in the amendments if the public feedback favours the suggestion.
 
 The Delhi government’s proposal is sweeping and, health experts say, it may face legal hurdles. “If the government is going to decide the profit margin on the basis of procurement price, why have MRP? I am sure someone will go to court and get a stay on such orders,” said the owner of one hospital.
 
 Dr D S Rana, chairman of the board of management of  , said that ideally the drug regulator should ensure no drug is overpriced like the way it does for essential medicines. “The government is asking the private sector to give discounts for additional surgeries and in case of death within 24 hours. But there’s nothing for the hospital in the policy draft. Also, the government will have to decide whether hospitals should follow MRP or the procurement price as the benchmark for deciding profit,” said  , cochair of the health services committee of the   and Industry.
 
