AGRA/KANPUR: A video footage accessed by TOI showed men, before the clashes, holding national flags and shouting slogans, "Hindustan mein rahna hoga, toh   kahna hoga (If you have to live in India, you have to chant Vande Mataram)."

 Local intelligence officials told TOI that a crude bomb along with a pistol and cartridges were seized from the homes of the accused arrested for the violence. On Sunday, two roadside shops were set on fire at Bakner village in Naidraigate area, and a glass emporium was burnt down by mobs near Awas Vikas colony, on the outskirts of the city.
 
 While DGP OP Singh said, "The situation is under control and drones are being used to keep a tab on miscreants," deputy chief minister Dinesh Sharma warned, "Neither the perpetrators, nor the conspirators would get away. They will be dealt with an iron hand."
 
 Kasganj district magistrate   said, "The men who set the vehicles and shops on fire have been identified and a manhunt has been launched to nab them. It was a deliberate attempt to disturb peace."
 
 Police forces have been deployed at districts adjoining Kasganj to ensure none of the accused involved in the violence in the past three days escape from the area, IG (Aligarh range) Sanjeev Gupta said. 
 
 "A total of 112 people have been arrested so far. A pistol and a crude bomb were seized from one of the accused house," Gupta added.
 
 Local residents, traders, political leaders, police officers and administration held a peace meeting in the district, headed by Subhas Chandra Sharma, Aligarh divisional commissioner, anf accompanied by ADG (Agra zone) Ajay Anand, BJP's Sadar constituency MLA Devendra Singh Rajput, BJP district president Purander Singh Solanki, former   MLA Hasrat Ullah Sherwani and others.
 
 "It was a very unfortunate incident and should not have happened. We will help the district administration in restoring peace. We have asked traders living in mixed-population areas to initiate negotiations with neighbours and open shops for daily trade," Solanki said.
 
 Speaking with TOI while conducting flag march in Kasganj city, the Aligarh divisional commissioner said, "We have assured locals that we will provide them all assistance to reinstate normalcy in the city."
 
 Parents of Chandan Gupta, who was killed in the violence on Friday, said they wanted to meet CM   and demanded that Chandan be declared a martyr. 
 
 "We want a fair investigation and the arrest of his murderers," said Sunil Gupta, Chandan's father.
 
 
