Surat: Despite increase in passenger traffic from Surat airport to more than 60,000 passenger per month against 10 times increase in the flight frequencies, the airport still lacks adequate security arrangement. Forget, the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) deployment, even the state police deployment is short of staff. Against the required strength of 114 personnel, only 95 are stationed at the airport.

 In a letter to the Airports Authority of India’s (AAI) western region in 2017, the Surat airport director had stated that the traffic movement was almost 10 times compared to what it was in 2015. Though the deployment of CISF is a policy matter, considering the present scenario, it is requested that the matter may be brought to the knowledge of higher authorities for being a security issue. 
 
 It is to be noted that the resurvey for deployment of state police was conducted and forwarded to higher authority, but so far no approval is received and the show is managed with available 95 security personnel against the required strength of 114. During the resurvey of the state police, it was proposed to deploy 208 personnel.
 
 RTI activist Rajesh Modi said, “The airport needs 208 security personnel to provide full-proof security to the passengers and the airport, but it is running with just 95 personnel. Surat is the economic capital of Gujarat and the government and its agencies are seriously overlooking the security aspect at the airport.”
 
 Modi added, “The smaller airports in Gujarat, including Rajkot, Diu and Bhavnagar, are having CISF deployment. Surat with more than 60,000 passengers, forget the CISF deployment, the airport lacks in the state police deployment.”
 
 Recently, the DG of CISF had given a reply to the query regarding the CISF deployment at Surat airport. The DG office stated that the CISF is a need based force and the deployment is made as per the instruction of the MHA. In case of airports, the nodal agency, BCAS (Bureau of Civil Aviation Security) is empowered to conduct survey and the need for manpower is recommended to the MHA through the sanction of ministry of civil aviation.
 
 Modi has sent a detailed letter to the DG BCAS as to why the CISF security services is urgently required for Surat airport. In last one-and-a-half-decade, the city has grown leaps and bounds and ranked eight fastest growing city of the world. 
 
 The airport has posted 300% growth in 2017 with operations of almost 22 flights and 62,000 passenger per month.
 
 
