HYDERABAD: Lauding the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare's move to mandate   (NEET) for pursuing  , professors and city doctors said this move will ensure that 'eligible' candidates study MBBS. 

 They said more than 50% of candidates who pursue medicine in foreign countries fail to clear the screening test and are not eligible to practice medicine in India. This move by the ministry will ensure that such candidates are filtered at the initial stage.
 
 "The cut off mark to qualify NEET exam is 50 percentile, which translates to 20% of the 20 marks. If a person is unable to secure 140 out of 720 marks, I don't think he deserves to be a doctor," said  , advisor, Telangana Junior Doctor's Association.
 
 Authorities of Kaloji Narayana Rao University of Health Sciences, through which all the medical colleges in the state are affiliated, said every year scores of students are going abroad to study medicine in unknown universities, which have no facilities, so getting rejected in the first place is better than later stages. "Most students who travel abroad to study medicine are from middle class families. They spend lakhs to study abroad and are unable to clear the screening test called Foreign Medical Graduates Exam (FMGE), for registration to practice in India after obtaining primary medical qualification (MBBS) overseas. In fact, some candidates even take coaching to clear these tests and it takes up to 10 years for them to complete MBBS and get registration be able to practice in India," said Karunakar Reddy B, vice-chancellor, KNRUHS. 
 
 Reddy added by making NEET compulsory for foreign medical courses, parents too will know about their child's potential.
 
 The V-C further said from academic year 2018-19, NEET will also be compulsory to take admissions in AYUSH (Ayurveda, Yoga and Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and Homoeopathy) courses. "Last year, there was option between  , but this year Centre made NEET compulsory to take admission into AYUSH courses too," said Reddy.
 
 
