GURUGRAM: A group of environmentalists has objected to the Gurgaon administration’s decision to shift a   from Kherki Daula to Sehrawan, saying a rise in the number of vehicles using the highway would adversely affect the wildlife habitat in the Aravali zone.

 The activists said the area had a number of water bodies and dams where animals such as leopards and hyenas come to drink water. The environmentalists also expressed the fear that a number of animals could be killed in accidents if vehicles were to use the stretch, which has forests on both sides.
 
 The shifting of the toll plaza would mean all vehicles using the Delhi-Jaipur expressway would be diverted towards Sehrawan and Manesar. The district administration has granted 65 acres to the   (NHAI) to shift the toll. While five acres are in Sehrawan, the remaining land is spread across villages in Manesar. 
 
 “The proposed site is rich in biodiversity — having a wide number of indigenous plant species and animals such as leopards, blue bulls, jackals, deer, fox and birds. This stretch of   has jungles on both sides. Any acquisition of land here will go against the overall conservation of the natural environment,” said KK Yadav, a retired chief town planner and an environmentalist, in a letter to the  .
 
 Forest department officials said no permission had yet been sought for building a toll plaza to Sehrawan.
 
 The local villagers agreed with Yadav that the toll plaza would prove detrimental to the conservation of wildlife.
 
 “There have already been a few accidents killing wild animals. We don’t want more,” said Yashpal Singh, a Manesar resident.
 
 TOI visited the area and found four ponds and a dam on a water body measuring about two acres on one side of the road going towards Delhi. On the other flank too, there are three water bodies, including a dam.
 
 This correspondent also spotted a blue bull and a hare within an hour of the visit on Saturday afternoon.
 
 “These water bodies are very much a part of the wild habitat here and play an important role in maintaining the water table of the area. There are only a few acres of forest cover available in the Arvalis. If the toll plaza comes here, the light and sound from the passing vehicles will disturb the animals,” Yadav said.
 
 Some forest officials agreed with activists and villagers.
 
 “So far, no permission has been sought from the forest department for shifting the  . There is a dense forest cover that is part of the Aravali belt in Sohna and Firozpur Jhirka. I don’t think the toll plaza should come up at the site. Else, it will destroy the natural habitat,” said a senior forest official.
 
 Told about the objections, an NHAI source said: “We have not got possession of the land yet. We are sure the district administration will hand over the land only after all permission has been taken.”
 
 Deputy commissioner Vinay Pratap Singh said: “It’s for the experts to decide if the area is a wildlife habitat. There has been no such assertion. The NHAI will get an NOC from the forest department.” 
 
 
