American artist Man Ray had once said, “To create is divine, to reproduce is human.” As January marks  , we ask students if colleges are indeed platforms for creativity to bloom, and the ways in which they pursue their artistic endeavours

 
 
 
 
 Whenever there are celebrations at college or in class, I use my skills to make it look more artistic, and my friends encourage me a lot. I rely on the Internet at times to explore creative ideas and ensure to improve the concept in my own way. I derive inspiration from a few images on newspaper, and I try to recreate them through certain structures and forms. I like to paint occasionally, and when I come up with something creative, I have had friends asking me if a certain motif will offend someone or a group. In that way, I think many of us have second thoughts while showcasing their skills and that affects one’s creative freedom to certain extent.
 
 That said, technological advancements are rapidly transforming the perspectives of the ordinary man, and the opportunities to explore one’s creative skills have become more now than ever before. Online portals have helped people like me access more creative and innovative content from different parts of the world. We all have multiple perspectives of ideas to create a piece of art but often are unable to put that into action. That’s where such online mediums come to the rescue. Technological developments are also helping us to express and share our innovations, ideas and creativities on a global platform.
 
 
 
 
 
 Against the backdrop of intolerance prevailing in the society, I think college students still have the freedom to express through the tool of art. There are times when their talent reach the zenith of artistic brilliance. During tech fests, we have various opportunities to bring forth our creative world. However, I feel more space should be provided for the same.
 
 Apart from that, instead of mindlessly scrolling social media for hours, we can turn to our phones for specific tools. For instance, we can use the camera feature to take photos of our favourite things, and hence there can be different favourite each day. Compile them using different apps. You can also find out the basic steps to become a vlogger. Apps are beneficial to a great extent, as they give ratings for achieving each level, which in turn helped me to work out more in the fitness club. It would be great fun to complete a workout and share the joy with my friends. I have tried my hands at furniture design as well through the help of such apps.
 
 
 
 
 Whether students have the scope of nurturing their creativity is indeed a big question to ask in today’s age. I think youngsters with great potential are not given the needed boost in college like how others colleges do, as other than Union Day or Fresher’s Day, we only get a few stages to exhibit our talents. Many managements fail to uplift a student, contribute to his development or nourish his individual talents.
 
 However, with the advent of social media, students like me, who have an inclination towards art have started getting the required exposure for their skills; t he likes and shares that we garner through the medium strengthen our morale and instil confidence in us. That is precisely the reason which keeps me going, while doing Dubsmash videos.
 
 
 
 
 
 The art of creating something, without having anyone judge him or her is something important. By pooling in your imaginations, you can get umpteen new ideas from others, as the way I see the world will be quite different from what others see. Hence, the blend of creativities can be path-breaking as well.
 
 Social media has been a boon in this regard, and I analyse various ways of creating something, following which I try to give a personal touch to it. Recently, I got inspired to decorate plastic bottles with colourful and starry lights. My college has different avenues such as Creativity Club, Arts Club etc for students, who are well versed in dance, arts and designing. Events such as the sale in the college give us the chance to make the best use of our thoughts and talents to match the theme of the programme.
 
