 is a Lifestyle disease which is Chronic & Deadly that may lead to several complications including Death. The opening line is a very strong harsh statement and may not have been presented in such a way anywhere. I am personally compelled to write this way as I have seen people taking diabetes very lightly mostly due to ignorance about the disease. Diabetes steps in suddenly into your life without even giving any warning bell and it is a silent killer. Your risk of developing diabetes is more when you are overweight especially around your waist and you are leading a sedentary lifestyle & indulging in fatty sugary diet. So stop sitting & start moving as much as you can, not only to stimulate your heart but to get your pancreas pumping and your insulin working in the body for proper utilization of sugar needed for energy production. 

 During our daily meanderings through the world of the Web, we are very likely to come across some article or blog highlighting the benefits of physical activity. The kind of lifestyle we lead these days necessitates constant reminders of fact that exercise is important. No matter what form that exercise takes, the body is better for it. While most research has focused on the heart-healthy applications of physical activity, other parts of the body also reap the benefits. For example, based on the results of a study, researchers now believe that short bursts of high-intensity physical training could stimulate insulin production in type 2 diabetics, by improving pancreatic beta cell function. The study included 12 adults diagnosed with type 2 diabetes, who underwent functional high intensity training with a certified trainer, three times a week for six weeks. The activities varied from one week to the next, and one session per week included a high-intensity workout. Oral glucose tolerance tests, which measures pancreatic beta cell function, were administered to all participants before and after the six-week training period. In addition, body weight and fat measurements were taken before and after the six-week period. In order to assess whether overall fitness and exercise capacity had improved, the trainer noted the number of sit-ups, squats and rowing repetitions each participant completed on the second and last days of the training regimen. The results of the analysis indicated an improvement in beta-cell and liver function, as well as increased exercise capacity. Body weight and fat also decreased at the end of the short-term exercise period. The scientists therefore concluded that high-intensity workouts for 10 to 20 minutes per day, thrice a week could potentially boost insulin production, therefore benefiting type 2 diabetics. 
 
 So stop making excuses and get your blood, and insulin, pumping! Exercise regularly, walk for 45 minutes, eat plenty of fruits and vegetables, beat the Insulin Resistance in your body & prevent yourself from diabetes. Remember walk & exercise for no one else but for yourself, and its for free. Take care, stay healthy.
 
 
 
 
