NAGPUR: A full-fledged city bus strike was averted at the last moment after municipal officials promised to release money for payment of salaries to the drivers by Monday afternoon. The three red bus operators — Hansa City Bus Services, RK City Bus Services and Travel Time Car Rental — had taken 30 buses each off the roads from their individual fleet of 120 on Thursday afternoon. They were planning to completely shutdown the bus service by Thursday night when   (NMC) woke up from its deep slumber.

 The dues of the three red bus operators have mounted to Rs28.20 crore. The civic body will pay Rs 1.5 crore only by Monday. If the money is not received, operators will go on strike again.
 
 The strike was in the offing for the last few days. The three operators had written a letter to municipal commissioner   on January 11 threatening a strike if the dues were not cleared. The commissioner had paid some lakhs then and promised to clear the dues soon. However, his promise remained on paper. In addition to the three operators, the civic body has also defaulted on payments to Delhi Integrated Multi-Modal Transit System Ltd (DIMTS), green bus operators Scania and Unity. This amount is around Rs 7 crore.
 
 An official of one of the three bus operators said that with the NMC not paying the dues on time operating the bus services has become difficult. “We have to pay salaries to drivers and conductors, buy diesel on daily basis and pay bank instalments every month. In addition, we have to incur vehicle maintenance cost and pay for statutory compliances. How will we pay these if the NMC doesn’t provide us the money? As we have to pay delayed interest charges to banks, all of the operators are in loss,” he added.
 
 The official further said that expenditure incurred by the three operators every month was around Rs12 crore while revenue from ticket collection was around Rs6 crore. “Thus the operators incur a loss of Rs6 crore every month, which has to be paid by the NMC as viability gap funding (VGF). All city bus services in the country run in loss and the civic bodies pay VGF,” he added.
 
 A transport committee member said that chief minister   had asked the NMC to increase its revenue from advertisements in buses and bus stops. “However, this has not happened. When   was running 160 buses in the city, the ticket collection was around Rs17 lakh per day. Even though the three operators are running 360 buses, the revenue has not increased. This shows that DIMTS has miserably failed. People leave for their workplace at 8am and DIMTS schedules the buses from 9am. Who is going to board the buses then? Now, they have decided to introduce server-linked ticket collection. What about crores of revenue lost till now,” he added.
 
 
