Ahmedabad: A team of city police’s crime branch solved the tea shop owner   case of Vejalpur with the arrest of prime accused Mahalingam Pillai alias Shiva from Chennai. Crime branch also arrested two other persons who had purchased the firearms used in the crime from him.

 According to crime branch officials, Nasir Khan, a resident of Fatewadi, was present at his tea shop on April 6 when Shiva had arrived at the spot at 6pm with his accomplice Mujahideen alias Babu on a scooter and had fired three rounds that had hit Nasir on chest and hand. Nasir had died on the spot.
 
 “A team led by inspector B P Rojiya was tracking Shiva. They got his whereabouts in Chennai. They got to know that Shiva had left for Tamil Nadu soon after the incident after police intensified search and had also asked for his belongings back home. A team reached Indiranagar in Chennai and apprehended him,” said a crime branch official. 
 
 Involved in about 20 serious crimes including murder, attempt to murder, robbery, dacoity, assault, violation of arms act, violation of prohibition act, peddling of narcotics and extortion among others, Shiva had converted to Islam after his marriage and had adopted the name Aftab. He had settled in Juhapura and had started dealing in garments.
 
 “According to the primary questioning, the altercation had started some time back when Shiva took side of his friend Sikandar Langha’s brother Hamid. Hamid has learning disabilities and he had frequent run-ins with neighbours. Nasir had threatened Sikandar and Hamid of dire consequences. Even Shiva’s intervention could not do much. When he was insulted on a couple of occasions, Shiva had decided to get even and had approached Nasir with a loaded gun. Even after seemingly leaving the criminal past behind, he had kept the pistol for his safety,” said a crime branch official.
 
 Police also arrested Mohammad Salim alias Mama Thakor, 42, a resident of Juhapura, with a pistol and 12 cartridges and Prakash Tanpuri, 50, a resident of Vastral, with a pistol and five cartridges. The pistols and cartridges belonged to Shiva, they said.
 
 
