Nagpur: A 32-year-old man, addicted to alcohol and contrabands, was, on Sunday, booked for raping his two minor daughters. The incident came to light when the accused’s younger daughter, 11, shared her plight with her maternal grandmother.  The accused had been raping the younger survivor at knifepoint for the last four months. While filing the report at Gittikhadan police station, the survivor’s 14-year-old sister revealed that she too was sexually exploited by the accused. The man had also threatened his daughters of killing their mother if they did not surrender to his ulterior design. The cops said the survivors’ mother, who works as a domestic help, would be out of the house for almost eight hours. Her husband, who was unemployed, used to commit the crime in her absence.  Social activist Sunita Thakre said, recently when the younger survivor, student of standard VI, returned from school, the accused touched her inappropriately and forced himself upon her. The survivor’s mother was taking bath at that time. The survivor told the cops that her father slept beside her and exploited her on several nights. When she confronted him, he brutally assaulted her too. She started falling sick due to unbearable pain but never dared to inform her mother. It was when the survivor learnt about someone in her neighbourhood fighting for their rights, she gathered courage to reveal about her ordeal to her grandmother.  She told her grandmother that for the past three days, the accused had been raping her day and night. “The survivor’s elder sister, student of standard VIII, was also raped for years, following which she had shifted to grandmother’s place. She too hadn’t disclosed the series of incidents due to fear of life. The survivors’ mother claimed she was unaware of the facts,” added Thakre. Gittikhadan police have registered the offence of rape, assault and threatening under sections of IPC and also slapped The Protection of Children from Sexual Offence (POCSO) Act, 2012, against the accused and arrested him. The younger survivor was taken to Mayo hospital for medical examination.