NEW DELHI: On one side of the road are luxurious farmhouses, on the other a fenced tract dotted with overgrown shrubs, trees and rugged pits. At the end of the road is a water-filled pit surrounded by garbage, rocks, a broken boundary wall and monkeys chattering in the trees. This portion comprises Khasra No 1354 in the land revenue records of Asola   in  . This expanse actually belongs to the village, and is, therefore, government land, but has allegedly been sold to a woman buyer, Raman Mehra, by a private dealer who had conned her into the transaction by promising her a better tract across the road.

 This illegal sale of government land obviously could not have been accomplished without the connivance of the lower revenue officials who hold the key to land status, the patwari, kanungo and tehsildar. This case and five other land deals in this village are under the scanner of the Central Bureau of Investigation.
  
  
 Two FIRs were registered earlier this week after complaints by the South district revenue department. As reported by TOI earlier, according to one FIR, Inderjeet, a patwari, facilitated the tampering of records of 25 bighas of gram sabha land in connivance with one Mahesh.   is probing the transfer of another 97 bighas of government land in   to private persons. The 122 bighas would cumulatively be worth around Rs 600 crore at current market prices.
  
 The FIR on the transfer of 25 bighas to Mahesh claims that the “khasra girdawari” inspection report, used by revenue officers to verify land ownership, land use and other property details, was prepared in favour of Mahesh, who then sold 10 bighas to Mehra. A probe established that the records related to these bighas were tampered with after January 30, 2014 and before April 24, 2015.
 
 The murky trail showed that after altering the records, a no-objection certificate was issued by Inderjeet and the sale deed registered. The mutation was subsequently done in favour of Mehra. The process allowed Mehra to become a bhumidaar (land owner) in place of the gram sabha without due process as required under Delhi Land Revenue Rules, 1962.
 
 Since the fraud was unearthed, the district authorities have rectified the false changes in the records and restored land status to “gram sabha land”. The process to secure the same expanse on the ground has also been started. But that is where the challenge begins.
 
 Mehra’s plot, Khasra No 1354, is a case in point. While on paper it is back with the gram sabha, the block development officer is yet to secure it. Also, a nearby farmhouse forms a portion of this khasra and the dividing road too is a part. This raises a question mark on how sales were executed in the past and whether a similar modus operandi was employed then.
 
 Adding to the complex land issue are the acres of land here fenced off as forest land. The landscape of less than 500 metres, therefore, shows a mix of farmhouses, roads, forest land and gram sabha land. Evidently, the land mafia is thriving on the gaps in the revenue record system and the land laws of Delhi.
 
 While the government has been striving to digitise land records, these cases of fraud focus attention on the robust khasra girdawari, a document in which the patwari enters details like the name of the plot’s owner and cultivator, land/khasra number, area, kind of land, category of cultivated or non-cultivated land, source of irrigation, name of crop and other facts. This is updated every year.
 
 It was this updating of details that exposed the fraud regarding Khasra No 1354 in 2015. Sources said that a scrutiny of the records revealed how the gram sabha land ownership record was changed in the khatauni through a nexus of patwari, kanungo and tehsildar. Other similar cases emerged, and today Delhi government is handling the iceberg of illegal sale of gram sabha land.
 
 In Asola, with the chakbandi maps made by the British in 1908 not available, the historical evolution and demarcation of khasras cannot be determined, making the role of the khatauni, khasra girdawari and the patwari even more critical. Also, an active network of blackmailers thrives in the area with thousands of crores of rupees at stake for those who have bought land there or have their possession under scrutiny.
 
 The district magistrate of South district has started getting every single land record verified with the gram sabha records. There is a plan to upload the data on the status of every khasra in the 14-odd villages of South district for public scrutiny with the aim of unearthing any discrepancy.
 
 
