PATNA: Union minister Ravi Shankar Prasad on Thursday blamed the Congress and other opposition parties for the near-total washout of the Budget session of Parliament.

 “The opposition parties disrupted the proceedings of the session. They created noisy scenes during the PM’s address and during the statement of foreign minister Sushma Swaraj on the Mosul killings of Indians. They obstructed the passage of important Bills in the Rajya Sabha,” Prasad said.
 
 Prasad was addressing a gathering at Gardanibagh where   MPs, state ministers, Patna legislators and party workers observed a daylong fast on a call given by PM Modi in protest against the opposition stalling the Parliament proceedings.
 
 “The opposition MPs shamed our democracy in Parliament and are now asking questions from us. We are not anxious. People of the country have faith in us and our work. We will continue to perform at our own pace,” Prasad said and pooh-poohed the claim made by the Congress that the BJP and the Union government were not upholding democratic practices either in Parliament or outside it.
 
 “The Congress has no moral right to talk about democracy. Its government imposed Emergency four decades ago,” he insisted and detailed the government’s works, including increased foreign investment, no NPAs of loans given in the last four years and increased job opportunities created by the spread of digital technology and establishment of 120 mobile manufacturing companies, among others.
 
 Barring party’s Patna Saheb MP Shatrughan Sinha and Darbhanga MP Kirti Jha Azad as well as Ara MP and Union minister R K Singh, who is abroad, all the BJP MPs from Bihar participated in the fast and dharna at their respective district HQ towns in the state.
 
 At Patna, state minister Nand Kishore Yadav, party’s Patna MLAs Arun Kumar Sinha and Sanjeev Chaurasia as well as MLC Surajnandan Kushwaha joined Prasad in observing fast at Gardanibagh.
 
 Prasad also criticised Left parties, saying people have deprived them of any role of bringing together the “smaller parties” as people have decimated them in West Bengal and Tripura.
 
 
