NEW DELHI: In a move to quicken relief for stranded homebuyers, the   on Thursday directed the   Group to deposit Rs 250 crore in two months and appointed a committee to supervise   of its housing projects to ensure timely completion.

 
 A bench of Justices Arun Mishra and U U Lalit passed a slew of directions to protect interests of homebuyers and allowed the beleaguered real estate giant to rope in other co-developers to complete the housing projects as it is not in a situation to do so on its own due to financial difficulties.
 
 The court, however, made it clear that Amrapali would not ask homebuyers to pay the rest of the amount due from them and said   will deposit the money in the SC registry which will be handed over to the company after completion of projects. It appointed a committee, headed by advocate M L Lahoti and comprising engineers, architects and chartered accountants, to supervise construction and periodically file status report in the court.
 
 The bench also turned down the plea of the Amrapali Group to sell off its properties to raise the money for construction of incomplete projects. There are around 43,000 homebuyers who have invested in Amrapali’s various housing projects awaiting possession and face uncertainty due to insolvency proceedings against the company. The court said it will supervise construction and assured buyers that their interests will be protected.
 
 The real estate giant is involved in construction of housing projects which includes 170 towers in Noida and Greater Noida. The company is facing problems in completing the projects as its bank accounts have been seized and it has been restrained from disposing of its property. Insolvency proceedings were initiated by the lender, Bank of Baroda, after the company failed to repay loans. 
 
 As per an estimate filed in the apex court, around Rs 452 crore will be needed for five projects in Noida where partial possession have been given to buyers but investment is needed to install lifts and other essential infrastructure to make buildings inhabitable. These projects are Amrapali Sapphire, Amrapali Zodiac, Amrapali Eden Park, Amrapali Silicon City -I, II and number of   is 6,917.
 
 The bench is hearing a batch of petitions filed by hundreds of homebuyers who approached the court after the   (NCLT) initiated corporate insolvency resolution process and the tribunal restrained the company from transferring or disposing of its assets on a plea of Bank of Baroda. 
 
