AHMEDABAD: At his peak, Asaram (now 77) — who was on Wednesday convicted of raping a minor by a Jodhpur sessions court — allegedly ran an empire worth thousands of crores of rupees, with over 400 ashrams in India and abroad.

 When Surat police raided the home of one follower, Prahlad Keswani, in January 2015, they recovered 42 gunny bags full of documents relating to investments worth Rs 2,500 crore in real estate, bank deposits and shares, all allegedly belonging to Asaram. According to a chargesheet filed by Gujarat police, his empire was worth Rs 5,000 crore by 2008.
 
 In 1971, Asaram established a small hermitage at Motera village, then on the outskirts of Ahmedabad, on the banks of the Sabarmati river. Two years later, he had only 10 followers. Subsequent governments leased land to the ashram taking the total land area to close to 40,000 square metres today.
 
 By 2013, Asaram operated more than 400 ashrams, of which about 40 have gurukuls (residential schools) attached. There are more than 60 Asaram ashrams in Gujarat alone. His trust owned a printing press and several businesses, manufacturing items like soap, shampoo, medicines and paraphernalia for naturopathy treatments.
 
 Asumal Thaumal Harpalani was born on April 17, 1941, at Berani village in the Sanghar district of Sindh in Pakistan. His parents, Thaumal and mother Menhgiba, migrated to Ahmedabad, where they lived in the Sardarnagar area, where most Sindhi refugee families were resettled after Partition.
 
 Asumal initially assisted his father with his timber and coal businesses in Maninagar and then at a grain shop in the Kalupur area of the city. When his father died, he was about 10, but continued his father’s business. When he was 15, Asumal ran away to an ashram in Bharuch, run by Lilasha Maharaj, just eight days before his wedding to Laxmi Devi. Though he was convinced to return, Asumal again ran away to Lilasha’s ashram eight years later, when he was 23. This time, Lilasha accepted him as a disciple and named him ‘Sant Shri Asaram Bapu Maharaj’, in October 1964.
 
 Seven years later, in 1971, Asaram returned to Ahmedabad. He has two children, Narayan Sai and Bharti Devi. His spiritual discourses gradually gained popularity among the tribal people of Panchmahal and Bharuch districts in Gujarat and Hindi-speaking people from north India. During a 2001 diksha ceremony in Ahmedabad, more than 20,000 devotees attended the ‘satsangh’ function. This meteoric rise in popularity propelled Asaram’s fortunes. His Yoga Vedanta Seva Samiti (YVSS), popularised the celebration of Matru Pitru Poojan Divas (mother-father worship day) on 14 February, instead of Valentine’s Day.
 
 The downfall began in July 2008, when two boys —Dipesh and   — went missing from the Motera Ashram. Their mutilated bodies were found from the Sabarmati riverbed a few days later, raising allegations that black magic was being practiced. Then then CM,  , set up the Justice D K Trivedi Commission to probe the boys’ deaths. Five years later, in August 2013, a 16-year-old girl accused Asaram of sexually assaulting her at the Jodhpur ashram. In December the same year, Asaram’s son, Narayan Sai, was arrested on charges of raping two sisters from Surat, who alleged that Narayan Sai and his father had allegedly raped them at the Asaram ashram in the mid-2000s. 
 
 
