LUCKNOW/SULTANPUR: A Sultanpur-based woman in  , married for more than five years, was given   on SMS by her husband, who lives in the UAE. 

 Rubina Bano received a text from  , who works as a contractor with a construction company, last week, even as the   was debating the Muslim Women (Protection of Rights on Marriage) Bill, 2017.
 
 The 25-year-old unlettered woman, who belongs to Baldirai village, had to take assistance of her cousin to read and understand the Hindi text message written in Roman text.
 
 " Rubi main Hafeez. Mai tujhe azaad karta hoon. Jahan chahe ja... Rubi Talaq, Rubi talaq, Rubi talaq (Rubi, this is Hafeez. I am giving you freedom. Go wherever you want. Rubi Talaq, Rubi talaq, Rubi talaq)" the message on her phone read. 
 
 The couple had strained relations since a year after their marriage in December 2012 when Hafeez's family in   allegedly demanded Rs2 lakh dowry and a motorcycle. They have a five-year-old son, Shahid. Relations worsened after December 18, 2017 when, on their anniversary, Rubina sought financial assistance from Hafeez for their son's education.
 
 Rubina alleged that despite several attempts, her estranged husband did not respond to her frantic calls following the text message. "He would hear the voice and disconnect," she said.
 
 After the message, Rubina and her family approached a local family court, seeking directions to the district police for action on charges of physical harassment, demand for dowry and infidelity. The court has directed the police to take action.
 
 "He has taken away the peace of my daughter... My son-in-law's motives and inhuman treatment of my daughter left me with no option but to seek criminal charges against him. No father wants to destroy their kids' marriage. We are fed up with this triple talaq in our religious system. We want an end to this now. We want that no innocent, gullible women should suffer," Rubina's father   told TOI. 
 
 
 
 
 Rubina also alleged that despite several attempts, her husband did not respond to her calls following the text message. “He would hear her and disconnect. They had last met two years ago,” she said. The family says it is happy that a legislation is being brought to criminalise triple talaq. The draft Bill says, “any pronouncement of talaq by a person upon his wife, by words, either spoken or written or in electronic form, shall be void .”
 
 
