HYDERABAD:   (JAC) chairman Professor   said remembering   movement and events (Million March) associated with it is not a crime. "If the movement which led to formation of Telangana is a crime, then the state should not have been formed... People who oppose this (remembering statehood movement and related events) are autocratic rulers." 

 "TRS chief K Chandrasekhar Rao wages a war against Delhi (Union government) for his rights (states), but is denying the Telangana people their rights," he said addressing the media. Thousands of people and   leaders were arrested in districts since Friday to prevent them from attending the Million March-inspired meeting at Tank Bund and they were not even given food at police stations, he added. The chairman said the JAC would move court against the illegal arrests.
 
 Earlier speaking to the media at his residence in the morning,   said the Million March was the turning point in the Telangana movement, but the ruling TRS government did not want people to remember it. He alleged that the state government with the help of police behaved undemocratically and denied the right of people to hold meetings in the city. He said he was detained at his house since Friday. A TJAC supporter alleged that a woman police officer stamped on her during the crackdown. "KCR has given a call to the states to fight against the Centre for their rights. You do not want to protect the rights of people in the state. Like KCR, we will also fight for the rights of people," Kodandaram said.
 
 He said the call for remembering the Million March was given to galvanise people, especially farmers and the unemployed youth. "The farming sector is in a crisis, suicides of ryots are unabated and unemployment is other major concern of the youth. The TRS government has failed to keep its promises and live up to the expectations of the people," the TJAC chairman said.
 
 He warned KCR not to forget history, which gave separate statehood for Telangana and power to TRS. The TJAC chief claimed that it was latest display of the TRS government denying "citizens basic rights they are entitled to in a democracy".
 
 
