GURUGRAM: A   — proposed across NH-8 to allow thousands of office-goers working in   reach Rapid Metro’s Cyber City station safely — is stuck in bureaucratic hurdles for almost three years now.

 And if officials are to be believed, the project is unlikely to see the light of the day any time soon. 
 
 Lakhs of people work in   but  , according to office goers, is missing out on a significant increase in ridership because people prefer to take an auto to Sikanderpur to running across the expressway to reach the Cyber City metro station. 
 
 Rapid Metro had approached the city’s civic agencies in August 2015, seeking their nod to build a foot overbridge that would connect the Cyber City station with Udyog Vihar. It was also willing to bear the cost of construction. 
 
 A foot overbridge will not only bring more commuters to Rapid Metro but also help prevent accidents taking place at this point the Delhi-Gurugram Expressway.
 
 But the government agencies have been sitting on this proposal for almost three years. 
 
 “Like Cyber City, Udyog Vihar is also a big corporate hub of Gurugram that draws lakhs of people who commute from Delhi daily. And since the launch of Rapid Metro, we have seen a large number of those commuters using our service. But they find it difficult to cross the NH-8 and reach the nearest station (Cyber City). To solve this daily problem, we had submitted a proposal for a foot overbridge there. The proposal is under evaluation and we hope to receive the clearance shortly,” said a spokesperson for Rapid Metro.
 
 The spokesperson claimed that the FOB would have double escalators to ease commuting. “We believe this initiative will be a game changer. It will not only draw more people to Rapid Metro but will also help reduce congestions on the NH-8 to a great extent.”
 
 V Umashankar, the CEO of   (GMDA), said he had received a proposal for the foot over-bridge only last Friday.
 
 “I am looking into this matter. However, as per Section 19 of the GMDA Act, any infrastructure project can be started after conducting public consultations. We will hold consultations to know people’s opinion about this project as well. Also, we will have to consult NHAI on this matter,” he explained.
 
 
