KANPUR: A day after the Uttar Pradesh State Industrial Development Corporation ( ) cancelled his company’s contract for the development of a theme park in Agra, actor-producer   on Wednesday accused the corporation of presenting an arbitrary figure for the cost of land acquisition to his company —   Pvt Ltd.

 Khan said the varying figure made it difficult for his company as well as his investors to make the transaction for the seven-city theme park to be set up in Agra. Khan said that escalation in the cost of the project was against the spirit and understanding of the various agreements signed between his company and the UPSIDC. “For example, UPSIDC demanded varying sums on different dates, like Rs 590 crore on September 2016; Rs 684.18 crore in May 2017, and Rs 1,041.49 crore on January 31, 2018. 
 
 These varying amounts, which are against the definitive agreement, make it increasingly difficult for my company and investors to go ahead with the transaction,” Khan stated in a letter sent to TOI. He added that he would like to apprise UPSIDC that his company has potential investors who are ready to finance the project, but the arbitrary and unreasonable revisions of the project outlay by the UPSIDC has led to the slow development of the project.
 
 
 “I found the letter of termination of the project arbitrary and not fit for enforcement, as per the terms of the development agreement signed between the two parties. Kingdom Entertainment would like to request UPSIDC to withdraw the letter immediately and draft a fresh proposal for payment of the land’s cost, duly calculated in accordance with the agreement,” the actor-producer said.
 
 
 “We are keen to work on the project. The project will also provide employment to thousands of individuals as well as tremendously benefit the tourism industry of UP and Agra,” he added.
 
 
 UPSIDC managing director Ranvir Prasad, however, said: “The company had been given sufficient time to pay. They (Khan’s company) first had 12 months and then an extension of six months, which expired in November 2017. Because the company did not honour the agreement and did not have the capacity to pay, we followed the due procedure and then cancelled their contract.” Sources added that the increase in amount to be paid over the months was “obvious” if one were to add interest on the outstanding sum.
 
 
 The UPSIDC had slapped a notice of Rs 608 crore on actor-producer Sanjay Khan’s firm Kingdom Entertainment Pvt Ltd for not bearing the complete cost of land acquisition and not honouring some terms of the contract to develop a theme park worth Rs 10,000 crore in Agra. Besides, an MoU signed by UPSIDC with Khan’s company for the project was also scrapped.
 
 
 The tender for the project was awarded to Khan’s company by the   government for developing a theme park in Agra in 2014.
 
