PATNA: Medical aspirants, who appeared for the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test ( ) 2018 at 32 examination centres here on Sunday, said the overall paper was average, but the physics part was tough. The questions were mainly asked from the NCERT textbook, they said. As many as 14,000 candidates appeared for the examination in the city.

 Samridhi Shekhar, a Notre Dame Academy student, said, “The easiest section was biology. Chemistry was average while the physics questions were trickier. Most questions were asked from the Class XI syllabus. I attempted 152 questions out of 180, including 35 each from physics and chemistry and 82 from biology,” she said.
 
 Another medical aspirant, Nikhil Joshi from Kendriya Vidyalaya-Danapur, said, “The physics part was tricky and lengthy. The paper was tougher than previous year. Biology and chemistry papers were easy as questions were asked from Class XI and Class XII syllabuses.”
 
 Praveen Chandra Sharma, a biology teacher at St Karen’s High School, said the questions were easier than previous years.
 
 The examination was conducted amid tight security and heavy restrictions. At some examination centres in the city, big buttons, metal tag or badges and patches on shirts were removed with the help of scissors. The female candidates were asked to untie their hair for manual and metal detector checks. Students were asked to take off their sandals, bangles, nose pin, hijab, sacred thread, hairpin and hairband at the main entrances of the examination centres.
 
 Medha Singh, an examinee, said she was asked to open her sandals at the entrance gate. “In NEET admit card, it was clearly mentioned that students can wear simple and flat sandals. However, the security persons asked us to leave the sandals at the main gate. The invigilators asked me to open my braid and checked my hair several times. They even took my hairband and provided me a rubber band to tie the hair.”
 
 Vaibhav Agarwal, a student of DAV Public School-BSEB, said the most annoying part was the thumb impression during the exam. “We were asked to give thumb impressions on paper at least on four occasions. It distracted me,” he said.
 
 Some students, who reached the examination centres after 9.30am, were barred from entering the campus.
 
 CBSE regional officer (Bihar and Jharkhand) Jagdish Burman said no untoward incident was reported from any exam centre.
 
 
