MADURAI: Standing on the embankment, Gandhimathy jokes that there is more waste than water in   tank. But she is not smiling. The 70-year-old village woman, who lives in Melamadai of Madurai, recalls splashing around in the water body as a girl during the hot summer days. 

 Today it is stinky green, covered in mounds of garbage and plastic refuse, and it smells more like a clogged drain. “Who will take bath in this now? This has turned into a smelling dump yard,” Gandhimathy says.
 
 Melamadai Oorani, as the tank is locally known, had been a   for many residents, especially those dependent on rainwater to irrigate their agriculture lands. What had been an elixir of life for residents until then is now dying a slow death. And the ruin began in 1990 as the then panchyat authorities created space for the expansion of a village school, filling part of the tank with stones and soil.
 
 This literally cut off the channel that has been feeding the water body for long, following which the public stopped using the tank for irrigation or bathing. The situation went from bad to worse when many residents mindlessly began dumping garbage, mainly plastic covers, into the tank, contaminating the once crystal-clear water body.
 
 However, the residents of this drought-hit area still believe Melamadai Oorani, which fulfilled their water requirements for long, could be revived with proper care and attention. And they really crave an urgent action from the authorities. 
 
 “We use to play in the tank as children. The water was clean and pure then. It is so disheartening to see the tank in this condition. I had even filed a case on this, but have not received any favourable result,” says A Jayakumar, former councilor of the 30th ward of the  . “I have been fighting to give life to this tank even before I was elected as councilor.”
 
 When Vandiyur tank burst its banks in heavy monsoon, water flowed into this tank through the feeder channel. But as the channel was closed a decade ago, it turned the tank lifeless. 
 
 “The feeder channel was disconnected and water flow was cut and the ruin began then. I am now ready to join hand with anybody and work for the cause of rejuvenating this tank,’’ says Advocate N  , who lives nearby the tank.
 
 For some this was not just a source of water for their daily needs, but a favourite spot for vacation fun. “I use to play a lot here,” says M Chokkar, a native of Melamadai. “The water was clean, and I am disappointed that that I cannot protect it. The corporation should keep boards and warn people against dumping their garbage there.’’
 
 Melamadai, Gomathypuram and Tahsildar Nagar are in the vicinity of this tank and are water starved. Revival of this water body could be the best solution as it will instantly recharge the groundwater. “If cleaned and fenced to prevent littering, the corporation can even set up a pumping station on its banks,’’ said  , another resident in the area.
 
 
