MUMBAI: Senior civic officials have begun to feel the   heat as a   inquiry officer has issued chargesheets to two assistant municipal commissioners —Prashant Sapkale and Bhagyashri Kapse. 

 Five other civic officials—health officer Dr Madan, fire officer R B Patil, sanitary inspector  , engineers (building and factory department) Manohar Kulkarni and Milind Vhatkar—have also been given the chargesheet.
 
 An inquiry officer’s chargesheet is different from a police chargesheet. It is like a show-cause notice that lists out allegations against an officer concerned and seeks his/her explanation.
 
 The chargesheet mentions negligence by the officials and gives them 10 days to give an explanation regarding the charges levelled against them. It has questions the officials’ failure in acting against irregularities at the two rooftop resto-bars—1Above and Mojo’s Bistro—in   compound where a fire broke out on December 29 last year, killing 14 persons. 
 
 Sapkale was ward officer of G-south ward which has jurisdiction over Kamala Mills, when the fire broke out. He was transferred to K-east ward after the fire. Kapse was G-south ward officer before him and it is alleged that illegalities were introduced at   building that houses the two resto-bars during her tenure. 
 
 Five more officials, who were suspended soon after the fire incident, were given chargesheets last week; TOI had reported about it in the Friday edition. With the new development, the total number of officials issued chargesheets by the inquiry officer, additional municipal commissioner Vijay Singhal, has gone up to 12. 
 
 Mehta had submitted a detailed report to CM   and recommended a full-fledged departmental inquiry against the 12 BMC officials. After an inquiry, Singhal has found prima facie that the officials who have been given chargesheets are guilty of dereliction of duty. Singhal will now hear out the officials, examine their claims and counter-claims before reaching a conclusion. He will submit a final inquiry report to Mehta in three months, mentioning the culpability of each officer, their failure to act against illegalities at Kamala Mills compound, and suggest action to be taken against them. If found guilty of negligence, the officials can face dismissal.
 
 
