Nagpur: At a time when Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) in Yavatmal has got recognition for 100 to 150 seats on March 31, GMCH Akola has been denied recognition for this year due to very high staff deficiency (14.38%). Medical Council of India (MCI) gives recognition to a college only if this deficiency is less than 10%.

 The   got the recognition letter on March 31. “We have almost all the infrastructure. The only thing we need now is an MRI. Shri Saibaba Sansthan Trust of Shirdi has promised Rs13 crore to us through chief minister Devendra Fadnavis. Otherwise also, we need an MRI machine for PG recognition and not for under graduation,” said Dr Manish Shrigiriwar, the college dean.
 
 In Vidarbha, the total sanctioned undergraduate seats are 850 with GMCH Nagpur having maximum seats at 200 and GMCH at Akola and Yavatmal 150 seats each. Chandrapur and Gondia colleges, which are new, have sanction of 100 seats each. The first two colleges are in the process of getting recognition for 150 seats each after the last MCI inspection while the other two new colleges are struggling to retain their 100 seats.
 
 Chances of Chandrapur GMCH getting a nod are high as the MCI has registered only 10.3% deficiency of staff there. But chances of Gondia GMCH getting a clearance this year are little as the MCI team has found highest deficiency of staff there at 21%. Both GMCHs at Gondia and Chandrapur have not received any intimation about their status yet.
 
 “Only four teachers were not available at the time of inspection in December. In fact, one of them has come to register his attendance on his marriage day but the MCI team didn’t consider him. Yet, the college is likely to get a nod as the deficiency is almost within the permissible range,” said Dr Chand Morey, dean of Chandrapur GMCH.
 
 Akola GMCH dean Dr R Karyakarte told TOI that he has received a letter from the MCI rejecting the increase in 50 seats due to 14.38% staff deficiency. The college also had deficiency of infrastructure like examination hall, lecture hall and central library. “We will appeal against the decision soon and seek relaxation this year as we have already started the process of filling the posts. The directorate of medical education and research has already been informed about the development,” said Dr Karyakarte.
 
 Meanwhile, though the MCI has denied 100 to 150 seats recognition for the Indira Gandhi Government Medical College, the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court has directed the MCI not to cut the seats. The court has told MCI to furnish its statement to the court. The DMER has already given its commitment to the court that it will fill posts in three months and will start purchase procedure for CAT scans and MRI. 
 
 
