NEW DELHI: The   today agreed to hear a petition demanding initiation of contempt proceedings against Shri Rajput   for resorting to violence against release of controversial film 'Padmaavat'.

 
 The top court will also hear a separate petition filed by Congress supporter Tehseen Poonawalla, seeking action against governments of  , Haryana,   and Madhya Pradesh for their alleged failure in containing mobs protesting the release of the period drama.
 
 Both petitions will be taken up on Monday, said a bench comprising Chief Justice Dipak Misra and Justices A M Khanwilkar and D Y Chandrachud.
 
 The top court had on January 18 cleared the decks for the release of 'Padmaavat' by striking down the ban imposed by four states - Gujarat, Rajasthan, Haryana and Madhya Pradesh - on the movie's screening, while also restraining other states from issuing similar orders. 
 
 When the appellants protested citing threats to breach of peace, the bench headed by Chief Justice Dipak Misra reminded them that maintaining law and order was the state's obligation.
 
 Last Tuesday, the court again dismissed last ditch efforts by Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh governments to block the release of 'Padmaavat', by refusing to modify its earlier order and directing all states to comply with it.
 
 "Our order is to be complied with by one and all. A few hundred people come on the street and create a law and order situation demanding ban. That can't be accepted," CJI Misra had said. 
 
 Police are on high alert across several states after activists from Karni Sena and other fringe groups went on the rampage Wednesday, committing arson and vandalism to oppose the film's release on January 25.
 
 Several hundred people attacked shops, set alight dozens of motorbikes and damaged more than 150 cars across in Gujarat, according to police. 118 people have been arrested and 300 others have been detained for damaging public property during the protests.
 
 Gurugram witnessed one of the most shocking incidents, when a frenzied mob pelted stones and attempted to set on fire a school bus ferrying 25 students. None of the children was hurt in the attack, police said later.
 
 In Noida, activists burned toll booths on a highway after a rally while in Rajasthan women carrying swords marched against the movie.
 
 Karni Sena says the movie distorts history, even though experts say queen   is a mythical character and that her story is based on a poem written by a 16th-century Sufi poet. The film's producers have also vehemently denied the charge that 'Padmaavat' falsely depicts a romantic relationship between queen Padmavati and Sultan Alauddin Khilji. 
 
 However, defiant activists have threatened to attack any cinema that shows the movie.
 
 
  
 
