VIJAYAWADA: Exactly a decade after its foundation stone was laid, work on the bridge on the Ryvus canal in   has picked up momentum.

 Project works, which started a couple of weeks ago, are going on at a fast pace and officials are positive of finishing it within a year. 
 
 The 40,000 residents of Ramavarappadu, Prasadampadu, and Hanuman Nagar areas had been agitating for years for completion of the long-delayed project. 
 
 The foundation stone for the bridge was laid during the   regime by YS Rajasekhara Reddy, the then chief minister, on March 16, 2008. The estimated cost for the project then was Rs 1.32 crore. Various political reasons, as well as red tape had stalled the project for a decade. Locals, thus continued to face hardships while travelling on the narrow footbridge. 
 
  from Hanuman Nagar, said: “The thousands of residents of Ramavarappadu and Prasadampadu have been facing huge problems due to poor connectivity for decades. They are happy now as the project works have begun. Earthworks are going on at a full pace, and we hope the real estate sector grows in our area, and value for our lands increases with this.” 
 
 Gannavaram legislator Vallabhaneni Vamsi Mohan, who was asked by locals to raised issues on project completion in the assembly and with the irrigation department, finally gave approval to the project. Minister for finance   performed the   for the project on February 18.
 
 Meanwhile, locals have requested the government to take up a rail over bridge in the area as there will surely be a traffic problem with the level crossing.
 
 Ballem Shankar Rao, a resident of Ramavarappadu, said: “We are happy that state government has at least identified our problems and started works on our dream project. We hope that works will be completed within stipulated time. Officials should consider our request to construct rail over or rail under bridge near the level crossing at Ramavarappadu railway station. This will prevent traffic jams on the busy National Highway.” 
 
 He said, “Officials should focus on this as the project will be useless if traffic woes increase in this area after construction of the bridge.”
 
 
