KOCHI: Police on Wednesday arrested a man in connection with a drunken brawl where a 24-year-old youth was allegedly hacked by a gang at   on April 15. 

 Sreerag (34), a resident of Glass factory colony in Kalamassery, was arrested. The arrest comes after much protests from the side of the victim's family against the delay in arresting the accused. 
 
 Police unearthed a CCTV footage of the alleged drunken brawl where a youth is seen getting hacked on his leg, however, the rest of the accused, including the person who hacked the victim are on the run.
 
  Eldhose, son of George, who was attacked by the gang on April 15. According to George of Kandathil House, the father of the victim, the youth has been severely injured and underwent a surgery.
 
 "My son was helping an inebriated person when the accused approached us and picked up a fight. They later called in two others over the phone. They came on a scooter and hacked my son using a machete," said George. He had alleged that the police are not actively searching for the accused.
 
 Meanwhile, police said that the victim could identify only one person and he has been arraigned as the first accused in the case. Sreerag was arrested from   after he was traced
 
  said that the case was an instance of a drunken brawl.
 
 "An FIR was lodged based on the complaint of the accused with non-bailable charges, including attempt to murder. Also, the face of the other persons in the CCTV footage is not clearly visible. We have been trying to trace the phones of suspected people, however, their phones are switched off," said the officer.
 
 Kalamassery CI S Jayakrishnan said that raids were held even at house of relatives in lookout of the suspects.
 
 "Houses of the suspects, their relatives and even friends were raided. Police even went to a house where a wedding party was going on in suspicion of the accused. Allegations of police apathy are baseless as we have charged the accused with strong sections and a probe is on," said CI Jayakrishnan.
 
 
