CHANDIGARH: Five months after Sector 4 resident Subodh   (75) was killed after a speeding SUV ran over him in Sector 10, hundreds of city residents participated in a   on Friday to demand the arrest of the accused in the hit-and-run case, Punjabi music composer Harjasneet Singh  .

 The protesters, led by Gupta’s three daughters — Reeta Aggarwal, Rashi Mohta and Niti Goyal — and wife, marched from the spot where the accident took place, the road in front of Hotel Mountview, Sector 10, to the Chandigarh Police headquarters in Sector 9. ArriveSafe founder Harman Singh, the man behind the Supreme Court liquor ban around highways last year, was also a part of the protest. The march culminated with the family handing over a memorandum to SP Eish Singhal.
 
 Family members demanded the police arrest Chahal, a native of Bathinda, again, as non-bailable sections of the Indian Penal Code had been added in the FIR registered in connection with the case. Rashi said though non-bailable sections had been pressed against Chahal in September, Chandigarh Police were yet to arrest him. “The Punjab and Haryana high court has also dismissed his interim bail application, still he has not been brought to book,” said Rashi.
 
 Gupta was a known industrialist in the city. After his death, his family has launched an online campaign to add unbailable sections in the FIR. Bollywood star Sonu Sood has already come out in support of the family. On December 23, the family met to UT SSP Nilambari Vijay Jagdale at police headquarters in Sector 9 and demanded he be arrested again. Though the SSP phoned DSP (central division) and ordered him to arrest the accused, the accused is still roaming free, said Mohta.
 
 Arrested, released in a day
 
 Subodh Kumar Gupta was killed on August 6. He was trying to cross a road in Sector 10 when a speeding SUV, allegedly driven by Punjabi music composer Harjasneet Singh Chahal. The Sector 4 resident was the owner of   Corn Products Private Limited. Police arrested Chahal, 27, a resident of Bathinda, who owns an entertainment company, two days later and released him on bail immediately.
 
 Time line
 
 
 : Subodh Gupta killed in road accident near Hotel Mountview, Sector 10
 
 
  | Sector 3 police arrest accused Harjasneet Singh Chahal and release him on bail the same day
 
 
  | Police added non-bailable section in the FIR, but accused not arrested
 
 
  | Family meets SSP. Though top cop directs DSP to arrest accused, no action taken
 
 
