BATHINDA: Punjab finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal on Saturday assured the residents living near solid waste management plant that it would soon be shifted as per their demands. Earlier, the residents had approached Manpreet to remind him of his poll promise to shift the plant from its present location on Mansa Road.

 Addressing the gathering, the minister said as the   (NGT) was monitoring the plant and a huge amount was needed to shift it, the government would need some time to work out the necessary modalities. Manpreet, however, assured them that since the shifting of the waste plant was a pre-poll promise of the ruling Congress, the government would fulfil it.
 
 Earlier, a delegation of the Solid Waste Plant Virodhi Action Committee led by its convener   had met the finance minister in Bathinda on Saturday and reminded him of the pre-poll promise of the Congress.
 
 A few days ago the committee had started a signature campaign to be handed over to the state government for shifting of the plant.
 
 Joshi told TOI that nearly 60 residents of various colonies had called on Manpreet. “We told him that the residents of a dozen localities were facing problems due to gases and bad smell emanating from the plant. Presently, the solid waste of only Bathinda is processed in the plant and soon garbage of 18 municipal councils will start reaching here. Then the problem will increase manifolds and in such a scenario shifting of the plant is the only solution. The finance minister has assured us about that. We are satisfied by his response.”
 
 
 
 
 Regular employees and contractual workers of Guru Nanak Dev thermal plant (GNDTP) on Saturday showed black flags to Punjab finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal and held protest against him at   and Vishal Nagar in Bathinda town. Thermal plant regular employees union leader   and contractual employees’ committee convener Rajinder Singh said, “We will continue showing black flags to Manpreet till the thermal plant is started again.” On the other hand, Manpreet said the state government had made it clear repeatedly that no employee would be retrenched and they might be shifted to nearby places and their protest was unjustified as many factors had been taken into account, including cost of electricity generation, before deciding to shut down the thermal plant.
 
 
