PATNA: The Centre will set up an independent 125-bed cancer hospital at an estimated cost of Rs200 crore near Shri Krishna Medical College and Hospital (SKMCH) at Muzaffarpur, Union minister of state for health   said on Wednesday.

 It will be the first such government hospital in Bihar as the state has only a regional cancer centre at Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS) in Patna.
 
 Choubey said a plot of 15 acre land for the hospital has already been identified near the SKMCH. “The hospital will be funded by Bhabha Atomic Research Centre (BARC) on the lines of   in Mumbai, which will extend technical support to the project,” he said. 
 
 State health minister Mangal Pandey said the state cabinet would approve the proposal within a month for providing land and the project would be completed in three years.
 
 Prime Minister   is expected to lay the foundation stone for the proposed hospital which would also function as a research centre for cancer,” Choubey said after a meeting with Pandey and the officials of Tata Trust here on Wednesday. 
 
 Earlier, the Tata Trust had conducted a survey to develop a model for cancer monitoring system in the state. In the meeting, Choubey said, it was also agreed upon by the Tata Trust and state government officials to set up tertiary care and screening facilities for cancer at three levels — L1, L2 and L3. Choubey said it was decided to develop nine district hospitals at L3 level as cancer detection and treatment centre where facilities such as radiological tests and chemotherapy would also be provided.
 
 “Six medical colleges out of the nine in the state will be developed at L2 level as a tertiary cancer centres where major operations for cancer, chemotherapy, radiological tests, drugs as well as other advanced cancer treatment will be provided. L1 level will constitute a cancer institute such as IGIMS where a cancer patient in advanced stages of the disease will be referred to for treatment,” he said. 
 
 An MoU would be signed between the state government and Tata Trust to develop these institutes, Choubey said and added there were plans to develop small cancer detection centres in all 38 districts.
 
 IGIMS has recently received Rs120 crore from the Centre to develop its cancer centre. 
 
 5 new medical colleges in state proposed 
 
 Union minister Ashwini Kumar Choubey said Bihar was divided into five blocks for setting up the proposed five new medical colleges mentioned in the Union Budget for 2018-19. Addressing a press meet, he said each block would comprise a cluster of three parliamentary constituencies. “The first block will have Buxar, Ara and Pataliputra constituencies while Sheohar, Sitamarhi and Madhubani will make the second block and the third will comprise Vaishali, Gopalganj and Siwan. The fourth block has Jhanjharpur, Supaul and Araria while the fifth has Jamui, Munger and Banka constituencies,” he said.
 
 
