LUDHIANA: In a historic judgment, a local court has sentenced a person to life imprisonment after finding him guilty of sodomising a minor child. The court of additional sessions judge   also imposed a fine of Rs 2,20,000 on the convict, and in default of payment of fine, to further undergo imprisonment for two years and two months.

 On 22 September 2014, Machiwara police station had booked the unidentified accused under Section 365 (kidnapping or abducting with intent secretly and wrongfully to confine a person) of the IPC on allegations of kidnapping and wrongfully confining the 11-year-old. Later after the victim’s recovery, medical examination confirmed unnatural sex, so police added sections 377 (unnatural sex), 347 (wrongful confinement), and section 3 and 4 of   (Protection of Children from Sexual Offences) Act.
 
 As per prosecution, on 22 September 2014, the complainant — victim’s father — recorded his statement that he worked as a mason in the sheller of a person at  , and he, his wife, elder son (11), and another son aged one-and-a-half years lived in the same area. His elder son was studying in the fifth standard. On the fateful day (22 September 2014) after his school was over, at about 3.40pm he returned home. After eating his meals, he went to play in the street, but when he did not return after playing, then the father started searching for his son, but failed to trace him. He had a suspicion that some unknown person had enticed his son and kept him in his custody.
 
 Later the next day, the sarpanch of a nearby village told police that he had seen the accused taking the minor boy with him. The police then raided the house where the accused was living on rent and arrested him. The kidnapped child — who was sitting on the bed — was handed over to his family. Later, the boy’s medical examination confirmed he was subjected to unnatural sex.
 
 During the case trial, the accused pleaded innocence and false implication. District attorney   said the prosecution pleaded for severe punishment to the accused on the basis of statements of the victim, the complainant, prosecution witnesses, and medical examination reports. He added that the court turned down the plea of the accused in the case, and after taking evidence on record, handed out a life sentence to the convict.
 
 Abrol said this was the first time in the history of   that an accused in an unnatural sex case had been sentenced to life imprisonment. He added it was a ‘historic judgment’. 
 
 
