The thought of managing money bewildered Parvati. Her   husband, who managed all their  , taxes and accounts, passed away unexpectedly. Their children lived abroad and were too unfamiliar with the Indian system to be of help to her. This is the story of how she reined things in.

 Parvati decided she would get familiar with what was there before she asked for help. She found files and papers in her husband's office and on reading his tax returns and the attached audited accounts, she was able to arrive at a list of investments and wealth.
 
 For someone with a working knowledge of English and no exposure to finance, the details were tough to figure. But Parvati used the Internet to educate herself. She read extensively on personal finance. She figured there was enough money in the bank and in deposits to take care of her expenses. Her children would back her up where needed.
 
 She divided her tasks into three bins. The first one represented what she needed to claim. The second, what she needed to hold and organise. The third was what she needed to clear and dispose.
 
 She met with the   members of the CA firm where her husband was a partner. She asked for his share to be liquidated and returned to his estate. She put up claims with insurance companies and read through documents to know what she was getting. She hired a retired insurance company employee and worked with him to get the insurance dues paid and paperwork completed.
 
 The tasks in the second bin were more complicated. There were too many investments. There were shares of companies she couldn't find! There were little sums lying in mutual funds she knew had been merged with other funds. She used the FAQs in the   and fund websites to understand what she needed to do. She made a list, submitting death certificates,   and other paperwork to get the investments transferred to her name. She also pushed into the third bin shares and funds she wanted to liquidate.
 
 She knew what shares in a company meant in terms of entitlement, but found the task of working with registrars in the case of paper shares, or with multiple forms to make modifications in ownership, tedious. The third bin was relatively easy since she had the consent of her children to deal with assets the way she wanted. She decided she would live in the house that was centrally located. She decided to sell the farmhouse and the flat that had been purchased as an investment. She sold investments she thought were dud.
 
 When asked how she made that choice, she said she applied three rules. One: It should be a known name. She used the Internet to see top names in that industry or category, and if she did not find the name, she did not want it. Two: If it is a company it should be profit making, and if it is a fund it should be doing better than the index. Three: The investment should be sizeable to matter to her.
 
 It was only a few weeks ago that people were lamenting about women not taking interest in finance. Parvati learnt enough in the last two years to know it is much ado about nothing. Her view is that there is nothing too complex about finance and money-one has to begin somewhere and keep at it.
 
 What was her advice to others? First, keep your records clean. Ensure there is a joint holder and there is a nomination and that everything you own is listed somewhere. Second, do not accumulate investments and assets without doing the homework first. Third, you don't need too many choices. Less is more when it comes to investing. Parvati's money is now in a dozen equity shares, bank fixed deposits and a few mutual funds. She draws from her deposits, and plans to replenish them by liquidating her shares and funds when it is depleted.
 
 Parvati is a pseudonym I have used, as she is uncomfortable disclosing her identity.
 
 
 
 
 
