RAIPUR: Batsmen set up the game but it's the bowlers who win the match, irrespective of any format. Madhya Pradesh bowlers, led by their fast bowlers, produced a scintillating display to script a 24-run victory when their batsmen could post just 135 on the board.

 They bowled with a lot of discipline, utilized the new ball well and kept the pressure on throughout as Railways were restricted to 111-6 in 20 overs in the Central Zone   here at Shaheed Veer Narayan Singh Stadium on Monday.
 
 With low score to defend, MP needed their bowlers to raise the bar. They did exactly that.   (4-1-15-1) started off with a maiden, the first of the tournament. Pandey bowled with pace, varied his length but kept outside off stump. Akash Verma hardly had any answer to Pandey's accuracy. It took ten balls for Railways to get off the mark.
 
 His junior new ball partner Avesh Khan (4-0-16-2) followed it with an express pace. He ruffled Varma with short stuff and then followed it up with an out swinging delivery, which squared him up as he offered a simple return catch. Railways couldn't do much in the Powerplay. Ankit Kushwaha too bowled well in his first three overs. MP bowlers bowled 27 dot balls in the Powerplay.
 
 It was only when   was joined by skipper   (38, 31b, 1x4, 1x6) things changed a bit for Railways. The pair showed some urgency as the asking rate kept climbing with each dot ball. The duo attacked spinners Mihir Hirwani and  . Rawat and Ghosh (26, 29b, 3x4) added 45 in 37 ball to keep Railways going. Hirwani (4-0-23-0) again bowled tidily in the middle overs.
 
 A horrible mix-up between the two led Ghosh's downfall. Rawat tried his best but didn't get the desired support at the other end. With run rate hovering to nearly 13 runs an over, Rawat charged to left-arm spinner Ankit Sharma only to be stumped by his counterpart Ojha.
 
 MP too struggled in swinging conditions after they were put it. Rajat Patidar charged   on the second ball but his middle stump went for a walk. Railways new ball bowlers Mishra (4-0-17-3) and   (4-0-18-2) bowled extremely well and tested MP batsmen.
 
  (19, 18b, 1x4, 1x6) broke the shackles with a lofted shot off Anureet Singh. Both Ojha and Harpreet converted twos as MP innings gained the momentum. In the next over, Ojha launched Karan Thakur at least 20 rows back for his first six. It was easily the biggest hit of the tournament. He then moved across the stumps to flick him to fine leg for another boundary. 
 
 In the next over, Harpreet (50, 47b, 4x4) hit three boundaries to off spinner   on the off side. MP innings was progressing well before Naman Ojha played a wild heave and was castled by Ashish Singh. MP lost the initiative and they struggled to get boundaries thereafter.
 
 MP could get only four boundaries and a six in the next eleven overs. Harpreet completed his fifty but departed immediately after it. Had it not been Sohraab Dhariwal's enterprising 31, which came off 20 balls with the help of 3 fours and a six, MP would have struggled to get past 130-run mark.
 
