TRICHY: Farmers across the delta region came down heavily on the   order reducing the quantum of water release saying it would adversely affect agricultural activities in Tamil Nadu. However, many welcomed the direction to constitute the   Management Board. The court's calculation on groundwater table was also baseless, they alleged. 

 Desiya Thanninthiya Nathigal Inaippu Vivasayigal Sangam state president P Ayyakannu expressed happiness at the court’s direction to form the Cauvery Management Board. “The CMB will be binding on the neighbouring state. Otherwise, Tamil Nadu will not get its due share of water in Cauvery,” he added.
 
 Though the Supreme Court had ordered to release 177.25 tmc of water in Cauvery, the Karnataka government will never obey it, many farmers said. They wanted constitution of an independent body to monitor and release water from the reservoirs in Karnataka as stated in the   award, till the Cauvery Management Board was constituted. State deputy secretary of Tamil Nadu Farmers Association, P S Masilamani, said that constitution of CMB alone was the solution to the long pending issue. Hundreds of farmers courted arrest in Tiruvarur and Thanjavur districts opposing the judgment.
 
 “The Supreme Court has stated that considering the severe limitations in the assessment of groundwater resource, 20 tmc could be used by Tamil Nadu conjunctively with surface water. But the same court has not taken into consideration the groundwater table available in Cauvery basin in Karnataka”, he said. This would ultimately create drinking water scarcity in the entire Tamil Nadu, Masilamani alleged. 
 
 Tamil Nadu Cauvery Delta Farmers’ Welfare Association general secretary Mannargudi S Ranganathan said that farmers from the state had reasons to be happy too. The verdict had clearly stated that no state had the ownership of Cauvery. Moreover, the court had also ordered to constitute Cauvery Management Board within six weeks.
 
 President of farmers’ wing of Tamil Maanila Congress, Puliyur A Nagarajan, alleged that the state government had failed to put forward its case properly before the Supreme Court. “Irrigation on about one lakh acres would definitely be affected across the delta region due to the cut in quantum of the due water share.
 
 
