Kadapa: A historical temple located inside the Gandikota fort in Kadapa district is left in utter neglect. Madhavaraya temple is recognised as a heritage site but in the absence of security and proper maintenance, it has become a grazing ground for animals and playground for children.

 The temple was built in the 15th century during the Vijayanagara period. The Vijayanagara architecture reflects on every stone of the temple. The Gandikota fort also has a Jagannath temple on its premises. The fort withstood many attacks by the enemies but no one could break in until the Nizams. Even they failed many times till they got help of cannons from the British.
 
 The main deities from the sanctum sanctorum of the temples were shifted to other places after the Nizams finally broke the fort security. The Madhavaraya idol was placed in Mydukuru, where a temple was constructed later. The Jagannath idol was preserved in Mylavaram museum. The archaeological department has identified the Gandikota fort and the temples as heritage sites. However, utter negligence of the official has left the place to animals. Buffalos and cows are seen grazing on the temple premises. What was even worse was that children played volleyball inside the main temple by setting up a net to the pillars. As the main deities were relocated, no rituals are now being performed in the temple.
 
 V Ramachandra Reddy, an MBA graduate, said that conditions in Madhavaraya temple were pathetic with animals grazing and local children making it a playground. The government made announcements that the fort would be developed into a major tourist attraction but nothing has been done so far. He expressed anger as rich historical monuments were being destroyed.
 
 Tavva Obulreddy, who authored the book ‘Gandikota – A guide to the Gandikota Fort’, told that preserving heritage was not a priority for the government. Many historical monuments in Kadapa district were languishing in similar conditions with official apathy, he rued. 
 
 
