Mangaluru: The stage is set for the much-anticipated national-level cultural extravaganza —‘Alva’s Virasat 2018’– that gets underway at Puthige in Moodbidri on Friday. Leading names in Bollywood like, K K and troupe, Shankar-Ehsaan-Loy and   and troupe, will hold centre-stage on each of these three days, that will also see the Mishra brothers – Rajan and Sajan being given the Alva’s Virasat Award-2018 on Friday.

 The focus of the 24th edition of this cultural festival is firmly on youth, and the choice of the above artistes reflects this mood, said Dr M Mohan Alva, chairman, Alva’s Education Foundation. Nagaland governor P B Acharya, will inaugurate the festival and D Veerendra Heggade, Dharmadhikari, Sri Kshetra Dharmasthala, will preside over the event. The inaugural will be preceded by a short cultural procession. Rajan and Sajan Mishra will receive a purse of Rs 1 lakh with the award, he said.
 
 While these leading names will hold sway over an audience of 40,000-plus at the sprawling open air auditorium at Vivekananda Nagar, the equally imposing 150-foot by 60 foot Smt Vanajakshi K Shripathi Bhat stage will also seek young talent and students from Alva’s Educational Institutions showcase their talent, Dr Alva said. He said the entire Alva’s campus and the stage, and the open air theatre will be tastefully decorated to add to the festive mood, that the event brings.
 
 Post the performance by Krishnakumar Kunnath (KK), Soorya Gayathri and troupe from Kerala will take stage with their devaranama. Students of Sanathana Natyalaya, Mangaluru, will follow this with ‘Sanathana Raasthramritha,’ a dance performance. Muthirikkas Kottapuram and troupe from Kerala, will present daffmuttu. Students of Alva’s will bring down the curtains on the opening day with Bharatnatyam, badagu yakshagana, folk dance of Gujarat and Manipuri dances.
 
 Shankar-Ehsaan-Loy will start proceedings on day two with more than a 2-hour performance. Mrudanga tharanga featuring young talent B S Ananda, Pannaga Sharma, Krishna Pavan Kumar and Sumukha Karanth on mrudanga and Dhanashri Shabaraya and Sumedha on violin, will perform after the trio.
 
 
