Away from the hustle and bustle of the city, in a dense forest in Kallar, is where K   lives. Flex boards and placards with her life-size photo and congratulatory messages from various political parties have found its place on the unpaved route as one winds their way through the foothills of the forest towards the medicine woman’s house inside the   tribal settlement.

 Standing in front of her incomplete single-storeyed house, the 74-year-old Padmashri awardee, who is fondly called Vanamuthashi, welcomes us with a smile and says, “Sorry for the unfriendly roads. The first thing I would ask the authorities is to provide a good road inside our settlement, as many of my patients especially pregnant women find it difficult to reach here in case of emergency.”
 
 Close to the house is a mud-house roofed with bamboo leaves which she calls her vaidhyashala. She is a busy bee attending patients who come from faraway places and also talking to the guests who are now turning up to congratulate her for her honour.
 
 While the country has adorned her with the fourth highest civilian award, she has no airs about it as Lekshmikutty is still unassuming as ever.
 She seems to be a believer of carrying forward traditions as she says, “I wish my next generation also takes up indigenous medicine and explores the diversity of sacred medicinal practices like my previous generation and I have done. I believe that my award will prompt many to help maintain our tradition of herbal medicine, which can be the best remedy for any rare diseases. Though I give prescriptions based on my findings, only if one has the practical knowledge of the herbs can they carry out these medicinal practices.”
 While many from outside Kerala and abroad have approached her to imbibe her pearls of wisdom, she says that it can only be passed to Malayalis as it needs to be preserved and is a prized possession of the State.
 
 She lives alone in her house as her husband  , head of the Kani community in the area died two years ago. “We were childhood friends. I have completed my education till Class 8. In 1948, I learnt alphabets from a basic learning school at Kallar. Later it was converted into a government school from where I completed Class 5. Though I joined Vithura Government School, I had to drop out as my family didn’t even have the money for my commute. Later I married Mathan, who became the moopan of our   here. We had three sons, two of them passed away and only my second son Lakshmanan, who is the chief ticketing officer in Railways, is now alive,” she says.
 
 Lekshmikutty credits her husband for “boosting my confidence in finding medicines and travelling to places”. “He was a very progressive man. I learnt about the herbal medicines from my mother Kunjidevi, who was a midwife,” she says.
 
 Over the years, she has cured thousands with her knowledge of herbal medicine. Ask her who her first patient was and she says, “I first treated my sister-in-law, who was bitten by Shanghuvarayan snake (common krait). Later I was able to cure many and chanced upon the herbal plant Amrithapala which is used for cancer treatment. I informed about this to Dr S Rajasekharan of Jawaharlal Nehru Tropical Botanic Garden and Research Institute, Palode, and he helped me explore the umpteen benefits of the plant.”
 
 What is notable is that none of her prescriptions are penned on paper, and the plethora of observations is carefully preserved in her memory. That said, Vanamuthasshi’s mind is plagued by the problems of climate change and its subsequent impact on forests.
 For her, the forest is a temple in which the herbs and shrubs turn idols. “Nowadays it is very difficult to find the herbs as forest resources have been depleted. I am the daughter of the forest and I very well know its pulse. Even before plucking a single leaf, I used to ask the plant’s permission, out of the boundless respect I have for them,” she says.
 
 However, she also says that man should not disrupt nature’s balance mechanism. She urges that the plants in the forest should be allowed to nurture in its own way. “It is to be highlighted that forest fire is not an evil practice and it often leads to new plants sprouting up. But the forest officials have tagged us by saying that we are trying to invade the place and disrupt it. Being born inside the forests how could we destroy our own mother? I am completely against the practice of forest department planting big trees like Teak and other varieties inside the forest. Where will the small shrubs and other plants grow then?” she asks.
 
 Pointing towards the vaidyashala that has no door, she says, “Patients can come at any time especially those poisoned by snakes. So I have not kept a door. When it comes to medicines, I make oils as remedies for ailments ranging from migraine to Psoriasis, and before giving them to patients I try it on my 
 own body.”
 
 Lekshmikutty Amma is also a scholar and a poet, who has penned about 50 poems, and in between the conversation she recites four line poems which are about nature and people.
 Ask her her favourite and she says, “Moonnu Gurukkanmar is a special poem for me as it focuses on the relation between a teacher and student which is also diminishing from our society. I wish to publish all my poems. My dream is to find calmness from these busy days and get time to write more. Through this, I can understand more about the scruples marked by famous scholars including Buddha.”
 
 She recollects how there was a middle-aged woman in her family was disowned citing mental illness. She says, “I took her home, gave her Ramayana to read. She did it for 30 days and came out a smart woman who later had a good family life. She passed away recently due to old-age issues in her 90’s.”
 
 The veteran, who attends the Kerala University as visiting professor for natural medicine in Botany conveys that the tribal tradition is slowly dying down along with the forest. “The adivasi community need protection and freedom inside the forest. The rare medicinal plants like cheriyannaga which is used to cure wheezing in children are now nowhere to be found. Belonging to the Kani community, we follow the indigenous remedies which were passed on from our forefathers, the naturality of these must be conserved,” says the recipient of ‘Naattu Vaidya Rathna’ award (award for naturopathy) from the Kerala government in 1995.
 
 Before attending the phone call of a patient from abroad to give consultation, she says, “Nevertheless, I am alone here, and I wish to adopt two dogs as they are the best companions of a human and are quite truthful to us. With them, I can have peaceful nights as I am getting more busier during the day of late.”
 
