NEW DELHI:   on Tuesday dismissed the Modi government’s allegation that former finance minister P   benefited absconder   through the “80:20 gold scheme” as “excessive vilification” of the opposition leader through lies.

 While Congress called the claims against Chidambaram an attempt to avoid a debate in   on the PNB scam, its Lok Sabha group accused the government of changing the subject of the debate sought by the opposition from present bank frauds to bank irregularities since Independence. The confrontation between Congress and   rose further on Tuesday as Parliament failed to function for the second day over the PNB scam.
 
 Questioning the allegations of law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad that the gold scheme was used by Chidambaram to benefit Nirav, Congress spokesman Anand Sharma said, “It is absurd to suggest that any paper could have been signed on May 16, 2014 (the day of the Lok Sabha results). Let the minister produce those file notings.”
 
 Sharma produced two circulars issued by the RBI in 2013 on the 80:20 scheme. The deputy leader of opposition in Rajya Sabha said restrictions were imposed on import of gold under the said scheme because the “current account” was under stress owing to oil prices in the international market touching $105-127 per barrel.
 
 “Massive gold imports were putting extra burden on foreign exchange reserves. It was decided that 20% of every lot of gold imported into the country be exclusively made available for the purpose of exports and the balance for domestic use by Indian jewellery industry,” he said.
 
 Sharma said only large public sector undertakings were allowed to import gold but it led to a shortage in the market and subsequently some private “premium” firms were allowed to import gold but under strict checks. “The RBI has all the records of which firms were allowed and what was their credibility,” he added. Calling BJP’s allegations “preposterous”, Sharma said, “The government is trying to shift focus from the biggest bank fraud (PNB scam) in India since independence.”
 
 Congress leaders from Lok Sabha Mallikarjun Kharge and K C Venugopal accused the government of tweaking the subject of the proposed debate in the House to enable the Centre to duck the blame for bank scams and flight of Nirav Modi and others from the country.
 
 Kharge said the Congress notice for debate was focused on present day scams and how scamsters had fled the country while the government had turned it into “irregularities in banking sector over the years and its impact on economy”. “It means some bank would be 100 years old, some 50 years or 150 years,” Venugopal said, alleging it was aimed at diffusing the focus of the present scams.
 
 
 Questioning the allegations of law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad that the gold scheme was used by Chidambaram to benefit Nirav, Congress spokesman Anand Sharma said, ‘It is absurd to suggest that any paper could have been signed on May 16, 2014 (the day of the Lok Sabha results). Let the minister produce those file notings’
 
 
