Legendary Bollywood actress  , who ruled several hearts with her bold, seductive and glamorous performances in the 70s and 80s, was in Ahmedabad for an event recently.

  Imprinted in people’s mind as the Janice of 
  singing 
  and Rupa of 
 , the Filmfare, IIFA and lifetime achievement awardee 66-year-old actress was here to participate in a live   dedicated to the Bollywood songs in which she had featured. Thes e included 
 and several other hit numbers.
  
  Dressed in a dazzling yellow 
 , Zeenat who won the 1970 Miss Asia Pacific title and brought modern touch to the depiction of the Indian heroine with her performances in 80 films in over 17 years, once again stole people’s heart as she addressed the audience in Ahmedabad. “Kem chho Amdavad…I don’t speak but understand Gujarati,” the actress who was seen in over seven movies with Dev Anand said on stepping onto the stage. 
 
  The event also paid tribute to late actor Vinod Khanna, who passed away in 2017, with the song 
 “
 . 
 , Vinod Khanna ji was a very good human being, a very decent human being and a very kind human being,” Zeenat said. On another occasion during the four hour long event, in which she also shook a leg on insistence from the audience, she had commented that talent should be appreciated while it is alive.
 
  AT caught up with Zeenat on the sidelines of the event. Excerpts from the chat.
 
  
 
  
 
 
  Zeenat: No, I have been here before.
 
  
 
  
 
 
  Zeenat: It would be announced at an appropriate time by the producers.
 
  
 
  
 
 
  Zeenat: Well, talks are underway.
 
  
 
  
 
 
  Zeenat: Of course. Why not.
 
  
 
  
 
 
  Zeenat: It’s a personal thing whether one wants to be on social media or not. But, it occupies a lot of people’s time…You know...well, it’s a personal thing.
 
  
 
  
 
 
  Zeenat: Item numbers have existed from time immemorial. In those days, you called them cabaret dancers. Now you call them item numbers. That time there were actors who did it..Now, leading ladies do it. As long as things are tastefully done and it’s entertaining, it’s all good. 
 
  
 
 
