They are gorgeous, talented, and have oodles of style and confidence. These ladies — some of them are fresh faces on the block — have made news for the right reasons. Here’s presenting The Times 50 Most Desirable Women 2017.

  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  In her Hollywood debut ‘xXx: Return of Xander Cage’, the stunning actress was cast opposite Vin Diesel, where she played the glamorous badass, Serena Unger. The controversies around her   film ‘Padmaavat’ also made headlines.
 
 : She is going strong with actor Ranveer Singh and news of a December wedding have been doing the rounds.
 
 : Her stunning beauty, dimpled smile and super performances on screen make her a complete package.
 
 
  
  
 
 : In 2017, the Sri Lankan beauty scorched the screen in two big Bollywood releases, ‘Judwaa 2’ and ‘A Gentleman: Sundar, Susheel, Risky’.
 
  Rumours of Jacqueline dating her ‘A Gentleman...’ co-star Sidharth Malhotra were doing the rounds.
 
  Her super-fit bod, sunshine smile and boho fashion sense make for a killer combination.
 
 
 
  
 
  Her much-anticipated film ‘Jagga Jasoos’ released last year. She also starred opposite Salman Khan in a spy thriller.
 
  Since her break-up with Ranbir Kapoor in 2016, the actress has apparently been single. 
 
  Those killer abs and that diva-esque personality.
 
 
 
 While her films ‘Baadshaho’ and ‘Commando 2’ didn’t leave a mark at the box office, Esha set hearts racing with her smouldering photo shoot, which she posted on social media. 
 
 : She has kept everyone guessing about her relationship status.
 
  A sexy pout and a body to die for.
 
 
 
  Though the British model-actress didn’t have a Bollywood release, she was busy with her American TV show ‘Supergirl’ and will soon be seen in the Rajinikanth and Akshay Kumar-starrer, ‘2.0’.
 
 : Amy is reportedly all set to marry her boyfriend, business tycoon George Panayiotou, later this year.
 
  She’s a delicate beauty with captivating eyes.
 
 
 
  Last year, the actress made her big screen debut in Hollywood with ‘Baywatch’, where she sizzled alongside The Rock, Dwayne Johnson.
 
  She recently revealed that she has been single for almost a year. ‘I’ve gone out with people. I let someone woo me, but no... My mind hasn’t exploded, not yet,’ is what she said about her relationship status.
 
  Her super confidence and go-getter attitude make her desirable.
 
 
 
  Apart from her film ‘Tera Intezaar’, the actress was mostly seen in cameos and special appearances. It was her scintillating moves in the item number ‘Laila Main Laila’, from ‘Raees’ that grabbed the most eyeballs.
 
 : Married to Daniel Weber, the actress is the mother of three beautiful kids.
 
 : Gorgeous and sultry, she carries her sex appeal with class and confidence.
 
 
 
  The good-looking actress showcased her versatility with movies like ‘Kaabil’ and ‘Sarkar 3’.
 
  She was linked to her ‘Sanam Re’ co-star Pulkit Samrat a while ago, but at the moment, Yami is rumoured to be single.
 
  She has a charming innocence that makes her attractive.
 
 
 
  The pretty girl was crowned Yamaha Fascino Miss Diva 2017 and later represented India at the Miss Universe pageant. All of 21, she is also a sprinter and a national and state-level netball and basketball player.
 
 : She is single.
 
  This beauty with brains is a powerhouse of talent.
 
 
 
 
 
  The diva, who won the title of fbb Colors Femina Miss India Intercontinental 2017, wants to work towards the rehabilitation of underprivileged people. She is also hot on the ramp.
 
 : This hottie is single.
 
 : Her well-toned body coupled with her innocent face, are her USP.
 
 
 
  After bagging the title of fbb Colors Femina Miss India United Continents 2017, this law graduate from Jammu & Kashmir plans to enroll in an acting school as she hopes to make a foray into Bollywood. She is also often spotted walking the ramp.
 
 : Single.
 
  This unconventional beauty, who has the gift of the gab, possesses the X-factor.
 
 
 
  This Bengali model-actress, who bagged the Best Debut (Female) Award at the Filmfare Awards East 2018, impressed everyone in Tollywood films like ‘Chaamp’ and ‘Cockpit’. She has also topped the Calcutta   list.
 
 : Rukmini is in a relationship with Bengali superstar Dev.
 
 The leggy beauty has deep, enchanting eyes that can make your heart skip a beat.
 
 
 
 : The Tamil actress shot to instant fame and became the darling of the masses after participating in the reality show, ‘Bigg Boss Tamil’. She is also the winner of Chennai Times Most Desirable Women 2017.
 
 : Though she is not committed to anyone, she says she would like to be with a man who ‘knows how to respect and treat his girl’.
 
 : Her magnetic charisma and good looks have won her a huge fan following down South.
 
 
 
 : After gaining popularity as the nagging girlfriend in the ‘Pyaar Ka Punchnama’ (PKP) series, Nushrat is currently on a career high, thanks to the success of her last film, ‘Sonu Ke Titu Ki Sweety’.
 
 : This beauty is single. Surprised?
 
 : Her delicate features and petite figure.
 
 
 
  This stunning Australian model, who has been turning heads in India, is all set to represent South Australia at the prestigious Miss World Australia 2018 pageant. She scorched the small screen in ‘Bigg Boss 11’, and was also seen in the film ‘Guest Iin London’ (2017). She has also acted in the TV show ‘Pardes Mein Hai Mera Dil’.
 
 : The gorgeous Lucinda is single.
 
  She is a beauty with stunning eyes and a winning smile.
 
