GREATER NOIDA: Many visitors travelling to the parking lot of the   being held in   in the shuttle service provided by the organisers, complained about   and mobile theft inside the shuttle bus service.

 While four-five complaints were received about the problem on Friday, at least six complaints of pick pocketing were received at the police control room (PCR) located inside the Expo Mart premises near gate number 1.
 
 Disappointed visitors said that the buses should have CCTVs so that such theft can be curbed.
 
 Vaishali Jha who arrived from Ghaziabad with her husband and daughter arrived at the PCR to lodge a complaint about her husband’s wallet being picked inside the shuttle bus.
 
 “When we exited the parking lot after parking our car inside, we were told by the guards to take a shuttle bus to gate number 5 from where we were supposed to enter. It was a very crowded bus and we stepped in with much difficulty. My husband suddenly felt that someone had picked his pocket and he told me about it. All his important documents like his driving license, debit cards, credit card, etc were gone along with some cash,” she told TOI. 
 
 “There should be CCTVs inside the buses so that this problem can be curbed. This is not expected in such an event,” she rued.
 
 Saurabh Agarwal, a resident of Ace City in Noida Extension complained about his Samsung Galaxy phone being picked up from the food court inside the Expo Mart.
 
 SP (rural) Suniti told TOI that a number of policemen have been deployed in the parking lot and the ticket counter to nab the pick pockets.
 
 “Nine people who are suspected to be involved in such petty crimes have been detained as a preventive measure on Friday. They will be produced in a magisterial court under CrPC under 151 (arrest to prevent the commission of cognizable offences),” she said.
 
 Hansraj Bhadauria, SHO, Knowledge Park told TOI that five such people were detained on Saturday.
 
 “In all, six complaints were received on Saturday and five people were picked up to curb the practice,” he said. 
 
