BHOPAL: Dr Ajay Goenka, managing director of Chirayu Health and  , surrendered before a special   court on Wednesday afternoon in a   scam case. Another accused, Dr SK Sadavarte, former member of admission committee of  , also surrendered. 

 The court sent both of them to jail till the next hearing, which is on February 24.
 
 Goenka, an accused in the pre-medical test 2012 scam, had filed for anticipatory bail in MP high court in mid-December last year, which was rejected. He then moved   but the CBI special court issued an arrest warrant against him on January 27.
 
 Goenka was pinning his hopes on Supreme Court. But on Tuesday SC rejected the anticipatory bail application of three other Vyapam accused — director of LN Medical College Jainarayan  , former joint DME Dr N M Srivastava and former director of state’s medico legal institute Dr D K Satpathy. This gave an indication to Goenka that his plea too could be rejected, so he decided to surrender in court.
 
 His counsel,  , told TOI that Goenka had not received any summons from CBI or the court. “My client surrendered before the court. We gave in writing before the court that he was not absconding. CBI gave wrong information to the court during the hearing on January 27 on which an arrest warrant was issued. CBI never directed my client to appear in court. In court, we filed a copy of the notice that CBI sent to Dr Goenka. There is no direction in the notice to appear in court. My client was pursuing his legal remedy of seeking anticipatory bail and was avoiding arrest on advice of his lawyers. He is not at all concerned with happened in the Vyapam scam. He was implicated,” said Gupta.
 
 CBI’s counsel advocate Satish Dinkar said, “Goenka was trying to justify his delay in appearing before court. It is just an attempt to get bail.” 
 
 Gupta requested the court not to put handcuffs on Goenka. In response, special judge   directed that a note be written in red ink on the warrant not to handcuff Goenka. He is now in Bhopal Central Jail.
 
 
