SHIMLA: At a time when residents are already feeling the heat over acute water shortage, the hotel industry in the tourist town has claimed that irregular supply of water from the Shimla municipal corporation has started to affect the business.

 Hotel owners claimed that water shortage has forced them to keep their rooms vacant even when there is huge rush and demand. This has led to losses, they said.
 
 They said if the state government does not take immediate remedial measures to provide relief, the hotel industry might collapse completely.
 
 Mohinder Seth, president, Tourism Industry Stakeholders Association, said the municipal corporation has failed to provide adequate water to Shimla town. He said shortage of water is creating a panic situation for hoteliers as people providing water through tankers have started demanding very high rates.
 
 “Even then there is no guarantee that water will be provided at hotels on time. Hoteliers are at the mercy of water tanker owners,” he said.
 
 Similarly, the restaurants, dhabas and small food joints are finding it tough to run their businesses and are compelled to procure water through porters at very high rates, he added.
 
 Former mayor and CPI (M) leader   said municipal authorities are always making an excuse for their failure to provide adequate water to residents. “Now they are going to supply water from  , where contamination had led to the outbreak of jaundice in Shimla in 2015.
 
 He said supplying drinking water from Ashwani Khad is riskier as   sewage treatment plant is not working properly. He said in the past it had come to light untreated water was supplied for consumption from Malyana plant.
 
 “It is quite shocking that even after knowing that untreated waste from Malyana is getting mixed into Ashwani Khad, the Municipal Corporation is going to supply water from that source. If this decision is not rolled back, then CPI(M) will launch an agitation for which the state government and municipal corporation would be responsible,” he added.
 
 
