In the latest episode of  , Om addresses the press conference and talks about the ‘kiss selfie’ he posted on social media. He tells them he feels there is no harm in sharing his artwork and the inspiration behind it with the world. 

 
 Anika, Rudra and Bhavya are impressed with Om. Anika is happy seeing him stand up for Gauri and decides to get an ‘Ishq wali Selfie’ with Shivaay. She tells the same to Gauri and Bhavya. Gauri tells Anika that she isn’t comfortable with sharing her private moments in public and it is something that Om did. Bhavya is of the same opinion but Anika differs. 
 
 Anika tells them that there is no harm in showing love between two people to the world and decides to convince Shivaay to get clicked with her. When Shivaay returns home, Anika finds him in a good mood. He tells her that the meeting with the Japanese delegation went well and they’d be signing the contract the next day. Anika then tells Shivaay that she wanted ‘Ishq wali Selfie’ with him. They take a few romantic pictures. However, when Anika is about to post it on her social media, Shivaay stops her and tells her he is not comfortable sharing his intimate moments with everyone. 
 
 This leads to a fight between the two, wherein Anika accuses Shivaay of being ashamed of acknowledging her as his wife. She refuses to eat. Meanwhile, even Rudra gets Bhavya dressed in her police uniform and posts selfies with her on social media. 
 
 Shivaay decides to pacify Anika’s anger and dresses up in street style Romeo avatar. He comes to her and the two begin to dance by the poolside. This somehow gets recorded in the camera. Later, the two even click selfies together. The next morning, Rudra wakes up to find mean comments on his picture, which makes him upset. When Bhavya asks about the comments and likes on his selfie, he lies to her. 
 
 The scene shifts and Anika is seen with her phone. She decides to upload one of the selfies they had taken last night, but mistakenly puts up the video. Shivaay meets the Japanese delegation, and they inform him they have canceled the contract due to the dancing video, which has gone viral online. The Japanese delegate tells Shivaay how the deal is about building a brand and its image. This makes Shivaay furious. He returns home and blames Anika for her carelessness. Anika realises her mistake. Shivaay scolds her for making a fuss about social media and showing off. He tells her that true love needs to be shown privately, not to the world. 
 
