GAYA: The Union home ministry agreed, albeit reluctantly, to provide   security shield to the seat of Buddha’s enlightenment after the serial blasts in Bodh   in 2013. The then Union home minister Sushil Kumar Shinde had even said it was a rare concession as the CISF protects vital economic installations and not places of worship. 

 Four years on, the CISF shield remains elusive, the reason being the cost involved in it. A sum of about Rs 12 crore will be required annually to meet the recurring expenditure on the CISF personnel numbering between 120 and 150.
 
 The  , according to insiders, is not financially sound enough to bear the CISF cost. But the Centre and the state government can easily bear it, either separately or jointly.
 
 Sources say whereas the Union home ministry wants the cost to be met either by the temple committee or the state government, the state government insists on central funding on account of the Mahabodhi Temple's World Heritage status.
 
 A few months back, a CISF team led by a DIG-rank officer inspected the site but no headway could be made because of the cost factor.
 
 Gaya DM Abhishek Singh said a decision on whether to hand over the   security to CISF or not had to be taken at the government level and he could do little in the matter.
 
  general secretary Sanjay Singh regretted the recurring blasts. “Confidence building should be the top priority as foreign tourists are extremely security conscious. The Friday blast could not have come at a worse time as the tourism industry in Bodh Gaya, more so the hotel and hospitality sector, was yet to fully recover from the adverse impact of the 2013 serial blasts,” he said.
 
 Downplaying the CISF angle, a senior district administration official said the shrine is currently under the   (BMP)’s security cover and the BMP is a well-equipped organisation. That the saboteurs, according to the official, could not smuggle the explosives inside the shrine and had to abandon it outside bears testimony to the BMP's efficiency, he said.
 
 Inside or outside, the blast is equally damaging and the tourism industry is the real loser, said a somewhat angry tour operator.
 
 
