VADODARA: Eight days after he had gone missing from his   at   in Gotri, final-year   (Ahir) was traced at an   in Madhya Pradesh early on Sunday morning.

 Katadiya had contacted his cousin Janak on Saturday evening to inform that he was safe and that the family members should not worry about him. Police said that they traced the number from which Katadiya had made a called to Khandwa district in Madhya Pradesh. Vadodara police informed their counterparts in MP and shared Katadiya photos and other necessary information to find him. A team of policemen from Gorwa police was immediately dispatched to Khandwa to bring him back.
 
 After they spoke to his colleagues and recorded statements of a few, police suspected that Katadiya was either in his native place Gir-Somnath or had gone to some ashram. Thus the cops focused their search in ashrams in Omkareshwar in Khandwa district.
 
 “We were in constant touch with IPS officer Navneet in MP and his teams searched around 50 ashrams. During the search around 2.30 am, they found the boy sleeping at Baba Barfani Ashram,” said Gautam Parmar, deputy commissioner of police (Zone 1). He added that the search operation was conducted very confidentially since there were possibilities that Katadiya could have changed his location.
 
 After Katadiya was found, his family members were informed and his father Devshi and brother Hitesh were taken to Mandhata police station in Khandwa where he was kept.
 
 Police said that Katadiya is under depression and therefore they will question him after he is properly counselled. He was brought him to Gorwa police station along with his family members late on Sunday evening and allowed to go after preliminary paper work.
 
 Parmar said that three teams of policemen were working to find him and besides the information of Katadiya being in Gir-Somnath, they had also searched for him in Jabalpur in Madhya Pradesh. However, they could not find him there.
 
 After Katadiya had gone missing leaving a two-page letter alleging Dr Ashish Shah for failing him, several representations were made by his family members and students to the dean of the college, commissioner of police and collector to find him as early as possible. Later his marksheet revealed that he had cleared the exam which was evaluated by Dr Shah and he had failed the exam which was evaluated by external faculties.
 
 On Saturday, his father had also pasted his posters at different public places in the city.
 
 
