MUMBAI: The members of the Indian cricket board administration, especially those above 70 years of age, are eagerly looking forward to bringing in a birthday next month.  , the chairman of the Supreme Court-appointed   (COA), is about to turn 70 too.

 
 
 
 Rai, an ex-CAG, will turn 70 years old on May 23 this year and the   members say they’d like to find out what the retired bureaucrat will have to say to the Supreme Court about his stint in Indian cricket administration.
 
 The order of the Supreme Court of India dated July 18, 2016, directs the BCCI to adhere to the reforms recommended by the Justice RM  . One such reform stipulates an age cap of 70 years on all cricket administrators.
 
 In Rai’s case, he happens to be in the BCCI because of the Supreme Court order dated January 30, 2017, when a three-judge bench headed by former Chief Justice TS Thakur appointed a four-member Committee of Administrators (CoA) to supervise the BCCI until the office-bearers of the Board could hold fresh elections as per the recommendations of the Lodha Committee. Rai was 68 going on 69 then and had told TOI he wished to wrap up the responsibilities handed to him by the court by October 2017.
 
 While elections still appear to be a distant possibility as of now, the BCCI members say they have little doubt that Rai should leave. “Bishen Singh Bedi’s name had been recommended to be part of the CoA in January last year but his name had to be dropped because he had already turned 70 in September 2016. If someone of Bedi’s stature, who actually understands the game because he’s played it at the highest level, had to be sidelined, then please tell us how can Rai continue?” say members.
 
 Former BCCI secretary Niranjan Shah, who heads the   (NCA) committee, was asked to stay away from meetings last year because he was 72 then.  , the former BCCI president, was asked to stay away from all BCCI general body meetings because he too was above 70. 
 
 Mumbai Cricket Association (MCA) president Sharad Pawar — who is also an ex-BCCI and ICC chief — stepped aside from the chair because of the age factor.
 
 “Then what is stopping Rai, unless he just doesn’t want to let go of it,” add members.
 
 Shah and Srinivasan were asked to recuse themselves from the specific BCCI meetings, despite the general body not consenting to the Lodha Committee recommendations until last year, keeping the spirit of the SC order in mind. Members say if the spirit of the apex court order has to apply to the Board’s senior administrators then why can’t the same spirit apply to Rai too?
 
 TOI had learnt that Rai has decided to write to the Supreme Court himself and “seek instructions” on what he should do once he turns 70 next month. The members nevertheless insist that Rai should take moral responsibility and practise what he preaches regardless of whether the SC bench takes up the matter on May 1 or later.
 
 “Shah can’t chair a NCA meeting but another individual from Vidarbha, who’s 71, can attend infrastructure subsidiary meetings? Srinivasan can’t attend a SGM but N Ram, turning 73 in May, can attend a meeting to shortlist CK Nayudu awardees? What’s this, a horses for courses policy?” say members.
 
 
