GURUGRAM: The   that hit NCR in the early hours of Wednesday triggered a major power outage across the city, even as   officials grappled with several power lines being knocked down by falling trees. As many as 24 high-tension (HT) electricity poles were uprooted across Gurugram.

 This was the third time NCR experienced high-intensity winds during this May, occasioned by increase in moisture, rising heat and cyclonic circulation. 
 
  
  
 
 Met officials said winds blew at speed of 105kmph in Palam and 98kmph in Safdarjung observatory. The Met has also issued fresh dust storm warning across different parts of India.   predicts two more high velocity squalls that are likely to hit the NCR on the evening of May 17 and the morning of May 18.
 
 In Gurugram, it was the second time the discom had to shut down most of its 900 feeders across both its supply circles — Old and New Gurugram. This included more than 400 feeders each in New and Old Gurugram. The midnight outages left residents across the city sweating copiously, as ACs stopped working amid sweltering heat. Discom officials said all feeders had to be shut down as emergency to avoid damage to lines.
 
  The supply was cut at around 2.40am in most areas. “In the event of high winds, it is impossible to keep the substation running, as there is fear of damage,” said K C Aggarwal, superintendent engineer, New Gurugram circle. Officials said they received reports that around 24 poles had been knocked down. At Sushant Lok 2, Maruti Kunj, Sohna and Tauru, supply remained disrupted due to damage to power system. In Sector 22 and 23, discom said trees had fallen on wires due to which it took time to restore supply. Apparently, the discom is forced to take the same steps every time there are such high winds. But officials said this could change after June 2019, when the ‘smart grid’ will be operationalised.
 
  Officials said by 7am, 90% of the supply was restored. However, TOI received reports of continued outages from Sushant Lok 1, sectors 5, 3, 14, 21, 33, 23, 56 and DLF 4. “A thunderstorm, accompanied by gusty winds, happened at isolated places over Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh, Punjab, Haryana, Chandigarh, Delhi and eastern Uttar Pradesh. Dust storm and thunderstorm are very likely to occur at isolated places over Rajasthan. Heat wave conditions very likely at a few places of west Rajasthan and at isolated places of east Rajasthan,” a bulletin from IMD said.
 
 Officials of the Regional Weather Forecasting Centre told TOI that two more spells of gusty winds were expected on Thursday evening and Friday morning. 
 
 “There are conducive factors for these strong winds and thunderstorms. There was rains on May 13 and May 14, due to which there is considerable moisture in the air. Also, across north-west India, we currently have a cyclonic circulation. Thirdly, temperatures have been pretty high,” said an official. “All these factors together have triggered these windy conditions.”
 
 In May alone, there were at least four incidents of high velocity winds in NCR, on May 2, May 8, May 14 and May 16. Two people died in the storm on May 14. Several private internet providers in Gurugram and Delhi also sent texts to their consumers that services may be affected in wake of fresh warnings.
 
 
