AURANGABAD: The night when parts of old   witnessed rioting, three of the four senior police officers of the city were not in town. Rioters took full advantage of the absence of police on the ground, resulting in loss of life and property.

 After then police commissioner Yashasvi Yadav was sent on forced leave on March 15, inspector general of police Milind Bharambe has been handling additional charge of the city commissionerate. He had gone to Mumbai on Friday evening.
 
 Of the three deputy commissioners of police in the city, DCP (headquarters) Deepali Dhate is on leave since the past few days and DCP (zone II) Rahul Shrirame availed leave on Friday evening. DCP (zone I) Vinayak Dhakne was the only senior officer available in the city to tackle the situation.
 
 DCP Dhakne called in platoons of riot control police and went to the affected areas along with some of the senior police inspectors. They, however, struggled to bring the crowd under control. 
 
 Four officers, including two assistant commissioners of police and chiefs of two police stations, sustained injuries and had to be rushed to hospitals. This left the subordinates clueless about the course of action to be taken, said locals.
 
 Miscreants were openly seen carrying swords and sharp-edged weapons on city streets till Saturday morning. Shops, vehicles and immovable properties were torched using liquor bottles and petrol bombs. There were instances when police teams had to take recourse on finding an angry mob approaching in their direction. 
 
 An officer told TOI on the condition of anonymity, “The entire night we were awaiting for orders to act against the rioters and bring a check on the violence.”
 
 When contacted, DCP Dhakne said, “I think it is city police’s success that we have managed to bring the situation under control within eight to nine hours of the communal violence actually breaking out.” 
 
 Eyewitnesses told TOI it was only after IGP Bharambe rushed back to the city by the morning flight and reached the spot that the situation was brought under control. It, however, was a few hours before the rioting stopped. 
 
 MLA Imtiaz Jaleel, who rushed to Aurangabad on Saturday evening, said, “There are so many videos on the social media, wherein the cops can be seen as mute spectators to the violence. For me, a city like Aurangabad not getting a full-time police commissioner and two of the three DCPs going on leave is suspicious.”
 
 
