The ‘Queen of Hills’ has seen a significant increase of nearly 50% in footfall of tourists in three years’ time. While 23.4 lakh tourists visited Ooty in 2014, around 32.69 lakh visited in 2017, according to official records. Also, the increase in number of tourists in 2017 is about 1.5 lakh compared to 2016. As the tourist inflow is seen increasing every year, where does the ecologically fragile hill station stand at? Do the local stakeholders see any increase in revenue generation? What are the initiatives being taken by the district administration to cope up with the increase in tourist crowd?

 N  , secretary, Nilgiris Hoteliers’ Association, said, “Of course, we see a drastic increase in tourist inflow. But when it comes to the revenue aspect, there is no change as there has been no increase in number of standard hotels.” He said, “Several homestays have come up in the town. The crowd we get nowadays is a floating crowd and their visit is only for a day.”
 
 President of Ooty Taxi Owners’ Association Govardhan said the expected business during last December was disappointing. “While around 155 taxies were plying in the town three years ago, it has gone up to 375. But we face high competition with the same amount of business prevailed three years ago. Most of the tourists nowadays come in their own vehicles.” “Even local business has gone down significantly as many people own a four-wheeler,” he said. 
 
 But the revenue generated by the horticulture department has gone up, at least, by 50%. The entry fee collected at the Government Botanical Garden (GBG) and the Government Rose Garden (GRG) by the department stands at over Rs 10 crore. The footfall registered at GBG is taken as the official figure for the tourists’ inflow in Ooty. 
 
 According to Nilgiris collector J Innocent Divya, the amount collected as entry fee at GBG and GRG and other tourist spots handled by the horticulture department always goes to the government as a central pooling. “Ooty earns much higher revenue when it comes to tourists’ visit but when allocation takes place, the hill district gets as same as any other district,” Divya said. “Hence, we are demanding a sizable portion of funds from the government to maintain the tourist town at par with national standard.”
 
 “Recently, we have initiated collecting green tax from tourist vehicles. That will be utilized for community toilets and other civic amenities. The Ooty municipality lacks funds as its revenues are not being streamlined,” Divya said.
 
 According to the collector, in order to cope up with the tourist traffic during season time, the revenue and the police departments have initiated steps to make few of the places in the town as vehicles free-zones. “In another words, it is to encourage cycling within the town. Also, systematic shuttle services would be introduced so that tourists could visit all the spots without any hassle. A parking point will be identified for tourist vehicles,” she said.
 
 Ooty is likely to see in future a centralized information centre to make tourism a systematic and hassle-free process.
 
 “Works are being undertaken to lay and repair roads within Ooty town at the cost of Rs 2.7 crore. It will be seen that all the roads have footpaths and closed drainage. Even the National Highways passing through Ooty town will have footpaths with gardens so as to give an aesthetic sense to the town end to end,” said Divya. 
 
 Stephen Stanger from Wimbledon, London told the TOI, “India is a hot place. So we decided to visit India during winter so that we can cover all the places of tourist importance.” Susan from Mumbai said, “Of course, climate-wise, Ooty is lovely just like any other European country.” She added, “A ride in the   train is enchanting.” 
 
 
