KOLKATA: A Kolkata   Rail Corporation survey has identified around 660 old and unsafe buildings above the 2.5-km stretch, where the next phase of tunnelling for the   will be done, and has recommended evacuation of at least 10% of the buildings situated right above the tunnel alignment.

 
  
  
 
 The results of the survey, done by the agency implementing the East-West Metro line, make it the trickiest section of the construction of the route that will connect Howrah Maidan to Salt Lake’s Sector V and will cut through some of the city’s oldest and most congested parts.
 
 “The final phase of tunnelling will be the most challenging one, with over 60 buildings in very poor condition requiring evacuation before the tunnel boring machines (TBMs) pass under them. The first TBM is set to begin its journey from Esplanade to Sealdah in May,” a   official said.
 
 A pair of TBMs has already drilled through five sections: between Howrah Maidan and Howrah Station; under the Hooghly; between the river’s eastern bank and Dalhousie Square; between Dalhousie Square and Esplanad and between Subhas Sarovar and Sealdah. The section under the river was the least problematic, engineers said, as there was no building to worry about.
 
 
 
 
 The preliminary building condition survey on 25-40 metres on either side of the central line of the tunnel along the Esplande-Sealdah stretch is now over and the buildings that have been earmarked unsafe will go through a further round of checks.
 
  
  
 Before that, however, the KMRC will tally its list of unsafe buildings with a similar list that is there with the Kolkata Municipal Corporation’s building department. A KMRC team recently visited the   headquarters to talk to building department officials about the plans for structures identified as weak.
 
 Buildings that already have cracks will be marked and the owners notified so that they do
 
 not blame the KMRC and demand compensation later. Those buildings that are extremely vulnerable and need reinforcement will also be identified so that adequate precautions are in place before the TBMs pass under them. “The structural strength of the buildings’ foundations will determine our remedial measures,” said an engineer.
 
 The TBMs faced a similar situation in Howrah, with old railway property and a section of crucial tracks along its alignment. Once the TBMs reached Kolkata after tunnelling under the Hooghly, 25 buildings along Brabourne Road were identified as unsafe; 12 of them required evacuation when the TBMs passed under them.
 
 “We will be adopting similar measures along this stretch. We will be taking safety measures for residents as well as the buildings to prevent any damage because of soil settlement,” KMRC spokesperson A K Nandy said.
 
 KMRC will also carry out a geo-technical investigation, a ground-movement structural assessment and pre-tunnelling mitigation measures before the TBMs start the journey for Sealdah. Two major curves — a sharp left turn from S N Banerjee Road into Rafi Ahmed Kidwai Road and a sharp right turn from Nirmal Chandra Chandra Street into B B Ganguly Street — fall on this route and buildings situated along these curves will require strengthening.
 
