 has had quite a journey, a stoic odyssey of resilience and belief that spans four countries and three continents.

 
 On the 4th of July in 1987, while Americans and their families marked another anniversary of their independence, Majok was born far from it all, nearly 12,000 kms away in the violence-hit capital of Khartoum in Sudan.
 
 The Second Sudanese Civil War was at its peak and over the next decade, it would go on to claim nearly two million lives and leave hundreds of thousands displaced. At the age of five, Majok - the eldest among his three younger brothers and two sisters - and his family fled Sudan and sought refuge in Cairo, beginning what was an eight-year struggle for survival in Egypt’s brutal detention camps. 
 
 His family then received a United Nations refugee visa, which helped them move to Blacktown in Sydney, Australia, when he was 13 and Majok then sought refuge in basketball, a sport that has helped soothe the wounds of a war-torn childhood.
 
 “It was a crazy journey,” Majok said after leading Lebanon to a crushing 90-50 win over India in their   World Cup Asian qualifier at the   on Monday.
 
 The 6”11’ centre - who is the first African player to represent Australia internationally during their 2009 Boris Stankovic Cup - became a naturalized athlete for Lebanon last year after impressing in the country’s national basketball league.
 
 “It has been tough, at the end of the day, a person who comes from that kind of a life would never expect to be where you are today. I am always grateful to be here and to be doing what I am doing now,” the 30-year-old recalled. 
 
 His time in Cairo’s detention camps were not without hardships, especially ethnic racism and discrimination towards Sudanese refugees. Majok chose not to delve much into those painful memories, but the scars on his left ear and right thigh — remnants of an attack by a racist Egyptian gang — would serve to be a constant reminder.
 
 “It helped me become tough, mentally,” Majok spoke of his time in Cairo. “No matter what, you just have to keep fighting, trying to succeed. But let bygones be bygones. There are people, who have gone through much worse than me. At the end of the day, I come from nothing and I am trying to build everything so I have nothing to lose.”
 
 However, throughout those troubled years in Cairo, Majok also got to feel a love towards basketball, often watching other refugees play the sport in the camps’ premises. Future stars were born from those torturous confinements, one among them being Luol Deng, who went on to become one of Sudan’s most famous names in a Chicago Bulls jersey in the NBA.
 
 In Australia, Majok was under the tutelage of  , a coach renowned for his work with the country’s Sudanese refugees, who honed the youngster’s abilities to win him a NCAA scholarship to study and play at the University of Connecticut in the  .
 
 While the stint remained insignificant, it gave him the platform to be noticed by scouts and coaches worldwide. Majok subsequently played in leagues across Turkey, Slovakia, Belarus, Korea, Germany, Poland, China, Australia and Lebanon and also was selected by LA Lakers as the 58th pick of the 2011 NBA Draft.
 
 But his resolute journey from Khartoum to Cairo to Australia and the US will always make him value the firm belief he had in his desire for independence from the insurmountable adversities he faced. “It is pretty hard for a kid, who was born into a good family and lifestyle… getting everything taken away was tough,” Majok said. “But everything in life is a lesson. What doesn't kill you, only makes you stronger.”
 
