BENGALURU: The   river controversy is set to dominate the discourse in the upcoming assembly elections, with all three major parties bent on playing it up, notwithstanding the Supreme Court delivering its verdict resolving the dispute.

 JD(S) supremo H D Deve   said he is boycotting an all-party meeting convened by chief minister   on Thursday, a day before a meeting of all riparian states convened by the Centre. “When the state government is not ready to take my advice seriously, why should I go?” he said, adding that he will talk to the Centre directly. Gowda has been personally invited by Siddaramaiah.
 
 The ruling party had sought to celebrate the SC judgement by distributing sweets, while the BJP tried to take credit for the deft handling of the issue by its government at the Centre.
 
 Deve Gowda, however, was the first to argue that the Supreme Court’s judgment is not in favour of Karnataka. “The Supreme Court’s judgment has not favoured the state and the government has to seriously think about submit a review petition to the apex court before it is not too late,” he said, adding that the state should get at least 40 tmc ft of more water. 
 
 There are fears that the court’s order to set up the Cauvery Management Board within six weeks would result in Karnataka’s losing control over the river water. Restrictions against diverting drinking water from the river to parched areas like Pavagada and Sira and curbs on lifting irrigation projects in the basin are the other sore points.
 
 “The state has to file a review petition explaining the facts that Karnataka is entitled to utilize the additional water allocated through any means including lifting the water,” said Captain Raja Rao, a water expert, who has shot off a detailed letter to the state government in this regard.
 
 “We hope to have a threadbare discussion on the issue and get constructive suggestions at the all-party meeting,” said Rakesh Singh, irrigation principal secretary.
 
 With the JD(S) set to play up the issue in the poll campaign in the Mysuru region, the Congress is getting ready to counter its traditional rival on the matter. 
 
 “It’s time for all of us to put up a united fight, especially for additional water. Parties must set aside politics,” said Congress leader and minister in-charge of Mandya M Krishnappa.
 
 The BJP is carefully weighing its options as any move by the Centre to constitute the Cauvery Management Board might prove electorally costly for it. “While we can’t escape from constituting the board, the Centre may approach the apex court with a review petition to seek more time,” said a senior BJP leader.
 
 
