NAGPUR: RPI faction leader   has threatened a fresh and more aggressive agitation across the state if the government did not immediately order the arrest of Hindutva leaders   and Milind Ekbote. He has also raised doubts over intentions of the government which has failed to appoint an inquiry commission though 15 days have elapsed since the violent incidents that claimed two lives and led to incidents in other parts of Maharashtra.

 The Bharatiya Republican Bahujan Mahasangh party leader was speaking to reporters here during his visit for social consultations on the Bhima-Koregaon fallout. Ambedkar, whose political career seems to have got a fillip with the statewide successful bandh he imposed on January 3, also flatly denied that Maoists and Left extremists were involved in it and said it was a social upheaval that had nothing to do with politics.
 
 “The very idea with which we organized the Elgar Parishad at Pune and the mass visit to Bhima-Koregaon war memorial was to build social bridges and restore communication between communities. Over 250 organizations participated in it spontaneously. But Hindutva elements gave it a communal twist by attacking the Dalit activists attending the event on January 1 at Bhima-Koregaon to mark 200 years of the battle between Mahar soldiers and the Peshwa rulers in which the latter were defeated,” he said.
 
 According to him, “by not arresting Bhide and Ekbote, the state government is only encouraging these Hindu unscrutinised leaders who want to take centre-stage emulating   of Pakistan”. 
 
 “I am restraining the angry people but if the government fails to act now, it will have to pay a heavy price,” warned Ambedkar.
 
 Chief Minister   announced on January 1, the day the violence took place at Shirur and some other places where Dalit activists were attacked, that an inquiry by a retired high court judge would be undertaken. Ambedkar pointed out till date no such enquiry has been set up though the CM has met the chief justice of high court in this regard. 
 
 “The delay in setting up enquiry and failure of the police to arrest the two Hindutva leaders against whom FIRs were lodged, shows that government is backing them,” said Ambedkar.
 
 Slamming the Fadnavis government for its ‘combing operations’ by detaining those involved in statewide protests against Bhima-Koregaon attacks, Ambedkar said the move was illegal and he would go to high court seeking action against the police. 
 
 “Also, Maoists taking over the agitation is a media creation and that the protest was one involving Dalit-Maratha. It was a social agitation where aggrieved communities came out to streets openly,” said Ambedkar.
 
 
