PUNE: The   of as many as 35 students admitted to the National English School in Sangavi, under the Right to Education quota, have submitted a complaint to the primary education office of the state department alleging   by the institution.

 According to the parents, the students in question are made to sit separately in classrooms. Parents have also stated that the children were not allowed to go to the school playground during lunch breaks or participate in events held on Republic Day. Further, the students were not shown their results as well as exam papers.
 
 While the education office has launched an inquiry, the institution’s management has stated that the school is likely to shut down next year as they are unable to bear the expenses of the students admitted under  . The school authorities claim that the state government has failed to reimburse the fee amount since 2013. 
 
 At the same time, representatives of the school refuted the complaints made by the parents.
 
 The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), Pune, had taken an initiative in the matter and assisted the parents in filing the complaint on Thursday. A parent said, “We have many issues of ill-treatment of our children and we have raised these before the school administration but nothing has changed. A student was made the class monitor but after realizing that he was had been given admission through the RTE quota, the class teacher changed the decision. Such discrimination is routine in the school.”
 
 AAP spokesperson Mukund Kirdat said, “The school is blatantly violating RTE rules and regulations. Discriminating against the beneficiaries is not right. Strict action is required immediately by education department.”
 
 When contacted, chairman of National English School Dominic Lobo claimed that the allegations made by the parents were completely false. Lobo stated, “We do not allow any students to go to the playground during lunch breaks, leave alone RTE students. I do not agree with any of the allegations made by the parents.”
 
 Lobo said that 10 more RTE beneficiary students would be added in the next academic year. “We have not received the fee reimbursement from the state government as promised since 2013. I have been bearing the expenses of the children all these years. Henceforth, it would be impossible to carry on by shelling out money for their education from my own pocket. Next year onwards, I will shut down the school, sell it off, or rent it out but it will be impossible to run it on my own next year,” said Lobo.
 
 Meanwhile, deputy education officer Bajarang Awari, affirmed that he had received a written complaint against the school from AAP members. “We have called the school and spoken to Mr Lobo. However, we were not satisfied with the answers provided over the phone. A team of education officers would be sent for inquiry on Monday.”
 
 
