BHUBANESWAR: Chief minister  , in power since 2000, is facing growing resistance from within his Biju   (BJD) at a time when he is getting ready to fight a resurgent BJP in the 2019 assembly election.

 And the voices of dissent keep rising. After MP Baijayant Panda, considered the BJD's most prominent face in Delhi, and former MLA Nabin Nanda, former Rajya Sabha member   too has trained his guns on the chief minister.
 
 Baishnab Parida, who in the past has been critical of the chief minister for not knowing the Odia language, has renewed his attack on the regional satrap.
 
 "Just because the CM doesn't know the language properly, that should not be an impediment to effective implementation of the Orissa Official Language Act, 1954, for compulsory use of Odia in official communication... Had the CM known Odia, it would have been convenient for him to have direct contact with the people and feel their pulse," Baishnab told TOI on Friday.
 
 The latest salvo comes at a time when Naveen seems to be trying to follow the steps of  , who highlighted his Gujarati identity while trying to woo the voters ahead of the assembly election there.
 
 At a programme last month to mark 20 years of BJD's formation, Naveen too talked of Odia pride and identity as he tried to reach out to the masses in his attempt to retain power for the fifth straight term.
 
 But while Baijayant seems isolated following his fresh attack on bureaucratic high-handedness in party affairs, Baishnab has still managed to stay close to Naveen. The chief minister gave him a patient hearing after his public outburst on the language issue earlier this week. Similarly, Naveen also met Nabin when the latter questioned the way the BJD is being run.
 
 Both meetings happened days after another former MLA, Rama Ranjan Baliarsingh, quit the BJD after complaning about bureaucratic high-handedness. Rama Ranjan is all set to join the BJP on Saturday.
 
 Political observes felt Naveen can't afford to annoy too many people in the party since they may leave the party and join the BJP. Rather than take action, Naveen, also the BJD president, is trying to keep his flock together ahead of the election, an observer pointed out.
 
 The saffron surge is perceived to be the reason why Naveen has changed his style of functioning. A man of few words, the chief minister gave interviews to the media ahead of BJD's 20th anniversary. He is also seen responding to media queries more often and smiles for selfies, a marked departure from his earlier self.
 
 But while Naveen chose to extend the olive branch to other rebels, when it comes to Baijayant, a four-time MP, the BJD president has tasked two senior woman leaders, minister Usha Devi and Pramilla Mallick, to inquire into Baijayant's alleged anti-party activities.
 
 "All cases can't be generalised. The party needs to find out details of any development before taking action, if needed," BJD spokesperson Pratap Keshari Deb said.
 
