Trichy: As part of the digitisation process being undertaken in Indian Railways, Southern Railway for the first time will introduce automation of TTE charts on the Karaikudi - Chennai - Karaikudi Pallavan Superfast Express. The software, which will be on a trial basis will be introduced shortly in one AC coach and one 2S coach on the train. For that, the train ticket examiners (TTEs) will be provided with necessary tablets and network connectivity with GPS provided by a private firm. According to officials, the network-enabled chart device would help abolish RAC (reservation against cancellation) system. Confirmation of waitlisted tickets and sending the confirmation message to the passengers would be done automatically. Moreover, public would be aware of the availability of seats or berths in the running train so that transparency could be maintained. In addition, the device would help control corrupt practices and thereby discourage touts, officials said. A letter sent to the senior divisional commercial manager in Trichy railway division stated that the trial run was to be organised for the automation of TTE charts in Pallavan express (train number 12605/12606) by the firm M/s Varnik Systems Services Private Limited (VSSPL) in Trichy. TTEs should be nominated for automation of the charts. Representatives of VSSPL, which has provided the software would provide the required tablets, network connectivity with GPS to TTEs free of cost and they would be travelling by train to assist the TTEs as well. Once the trial runs are considered successful, the digital device would be introduced across the country, officials said. The network-enabled charting device is a digital device like tablets equipped with QR (quick response) code scanner, printing availability and wifi network. TTEs need not carry the printed copy of reservation chart as the chart of the concerned train would be prepared online and will be available on the device. If any berth or seat falls vacant in case of a confirmed passenger not turning up (NT), the TTE could click NT button against the berth/seat number on the device, officials said. While the device scan QR code or action done in case of passenger not turning up, the information of occupation or vacant berths or seats would be transferred to network-enabled computers in railway stations en route of the train, where the availability of seat in running upcoming train would be displayed after confirming waiting list already booked. Passengers who desire to travel may book their tickets as per vacant position from computers in railway stations or from TTE in the train. A receipt would be printed out from the device which shows the difference of fare paid, coach number, berth number, distance and class of travel with date and time, a senior official from Trichy railway division said.