NEW DELHI: In a major push towards providing efficient last-mile connectivity from metro stations, Delhi Metro Rail Corporation (DMRC) is soon going to run electric buses on its feeder routes. DMRC plans to scale up its feeder bus network by inducting more than 500  , and eventually having a fleet of more than 1,000  .

 At presents, Delhi Metro’s feeder bus services are rickety and with just 269 buses, it is way short of the demand. DMRC has been planning a major revamp of its feeder network and the corporation’s managing director,  , had recently told TOI that DMRC plans to improve its feeder bus services in a big way.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 Incidentally, the corporation had last year told   (STA) that it doesn’t want to run feeder buses at all. However, there was a change of approach later and DMRC planned to create a separate private company that will take care of this service, apart from other facilities outside the stations.
 
 “DMRC is soon going to procure 530 mini buses, which will be operated by a separate entity called Last Mile Connectivity Company. This issue was recently discussed in meeting chaired by the secretary of union ministry of housing and urban affairs,” said a government official. “DMRC also plans to induct buses for its feeder network in a big way and while 24-seater mini buses will be procured in the first phase, in the second phase smaller vehicles, which provide last mile connectivity to and from congested areas, will be produced” the official added.
 
 DMRC has conducted a station-wise survey to find out feasible feeder routes and has decided to run feeder services on 52 such routes. Out of the 530 mini buses DMRC is going to procure, 242 are going to be electric buses and the rest would be CNG-run mini buses. The official said that charging points for electric buses would be created at metro stations from where these buses would operate.
 
 “The subsidiary company to be formed by DMRC would not only operate feeder buses, but also manage and regulate other modes of last mile connectivity, including autorickshaws, e-rickshaws and cycling sharing stands,” the official said.
 
 Anuj Dayal, executive director (corporate communications), DMRC said: “DMRC is in the process of forming a subsidiary company in order to manage the issues related to last-mile connectivity. All such issues, including parking, are proposed to be handled by this company.” DMRC also plans to run the feeder buses on the cluster model, under which operators would be paid for plying the buses and the revenue would be collected by the corporation.
 
 
