PATIALA: A video uploaded by a US-based self-declared rights group Sikhs for Justice ( ) asking the Punjab gangsters to fight for a  , which has gone viral, has caught the attention of the state police too. Punjab’s top cops are now trying to evolve a strategy to counter such online propaganda.

 In the video, legal advisor of SFJ   is seen provoking state youth to fight for Panth (religion) and Granth (Holy Book) rather than becoming victims of crimes. Pannu can also be heard promising aide in the fight for a separate Sikh state.
 
 One of the top police official, on condition of anonymity, said they were aware of attempts being made by anti-national forces operating from foreign shores to fuel communal sentiments in Punjab and vitiate its atmosphere. However, such organizations only have a marginal presence in Punjab and might be trying to gain ‘publicity’ by indulging in such acts.
 
 The official website of SFJ and its Facebook account are already banned in India, but they are still trying to approach the state’s youth using other social media platforms and messaging apps, the official said.
 
 In November, last year, when the state police had cracked the targeting killing of Punjab, chief minister   had stated that these killings had been carried out as part of a conspiracy hatched by Pakistan’s intelligence agency ISI to spread communal disturbances here. The CM had stated that his government would not allow pro-Khalistani elements to take root in the state.
 
 The SFJ has been known for putting up banner and posters of Referendum 2020, which sought a sovereign Sikh state.
 
 IG Nilab Kishore, who is heading the Organised Crime Control Unit (OCCU) said the state police had already made an appeal to the state youth who had taken up crime to surrender and join the main stream. While, he skirted the question regarding the video having been uploaded by SFJ, Kishore said the issue of gangsters and Khalistani sympathizers forming associations to distribute peace in Punjab, was under investigations.
 
 Punjab DGP Suresh Arora had also stated that from the recent investigations it had emerged that a nexus exists between gangsters and extremists, who provide youngsters weapons and radicalize them.
 
 The FIR registered in regard with the Nabha   also mentions that the gangsters had taken KLF chief   and Militant Baba Kashmira Singh along to use their contacts in Pakistan to secure money and weapons to carry out ‘terrorist-like’ activities in Punjab.
 
 
