COIMBATORE: Bharathiar University vice-chancellor A Ganapathi, 67, was arrested on Saturday for accepting a bribe of Rs 30 lakh from assistant professor T   of the chemistry department. He was asked to pay the bribe to become a permanent employee of the university as he had completed his probation period of one year. His colleague, professor Dharmaraj of the chemistry department was also arrested later for helping Ganapathi receive the bribe. The arrests were made by the officials of the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC), Coimbatore.

 On Saturday around 9.30am, Ganapathi was getting ready to leave for the university from his residence located opposite to the university on   when Suresh visited him. He gave him Rs 1 lakh in cash (50 notes of Rs 2,000) and four post-dated cheque leaves for an amount of Rs 29 lakh. It was a trap laid by the   - the notes were laced with phenolphthalein powder. 
 
 “When he received the notes, he sensed the presence of the powder and immediately rushed to the toilet. He tore 28 notes of Rs 2,000 rupee denomination and dumped them into the toilet at his residence. His wife Swarnalatha, who was right next to him, pulled the flush lever of the toilet,” said a DVAC source.
 
 Meanwhile, officials of the DVAC rushed to the toilet and managed to snatch 22 notes and the four cheque leaves from the vice-chancellor. “We employed three   and a plumber who dismantled the toilet and recovered few more torn notes. They also dug up the pipelines from the toilet and recovered all the remaining notes,” said the source.
 
 Ganapathi was arrested under Section 7 of the Prevention of Corruption Act 1988. Swarnalatha, 57, was also interrogated by the officials. She will be booked for causing disappearance of evidence under Section 201 of the Indian Penal Code.
 
 However, Dharmaraj was functioning as mediator between Ganapathi and Suresh. DVAC sleuths also conducted searches at the chemistry department on the university campus and collected valid documents. DVAC sleuths are interrogating Ganapathi, his wife and Dharmaraj. “We are examining many documents at the vice-chancellor’s residence,” said a DVAC official.
 
 The preliminary inquiry revealed that Suresh was appointed as assistant professor by Ganapathi last year. The vice-chancellor pestered him to pay Rs 30 lakh for the appointment. But Suresh did not pay the amount and the vice-chancellor told him that he would make him a permanent employee once he settled the amount.
 
 A detailed inquiry is also pending against Ganapathi as per the order of the Government of Tamil Nadu into the allegation of irregularities in the appointment of teaching staff in Bharathiar University.
 
 
