Gurgaon: The prolonged delay in completion of Dwarka Expressway and the shifting of the toll plaza from Kherki Daula spurred a three-hour-long protest by around 200 homebuyers on Saturday.

 The people, who have brought home in new sectors along the expressway and near Kherki Daula, slammed the government for dragging its feet on the twin projects despite repeated assurances. While the expressway, now a national highway, remained incomplete due to several litigations and land acquisition hurdles even eight years after the project was started, there was no progress on shifting of the toll plaza, they alleged.
 
 “How long does it take to complete a road project? Government has failed to address our problems,” said Harinder Singh, a resident of Sector 84. 
 
 The homebuyers first staged a protest on the   near Sector 84 around 10.30am and then shifted to NH-8 near Kherki Daula, where they formed a human chain and tried to block the traffic. But, bouncers at the toll plaza and police personnel, who were present at the protest site, intervened and prevented them from creating any kind hurdle for the vehicular movement. The homebuyers, nevertheless, continued their protest for about two-and-a-half hours and returned after submitting a memorandum to NHAI officials at the toll plaza.
 
 A rough estimate suggests around 90,000 people have invested in residential and commercial properties in over 100 projects being developed along the Dwarka e-way, also known as Northern Peripheral Road, which was conceived as an alternative route between Delhi and Gurgaon. It is expected to reduce load on NH-8 by 40%.
 
 The buyers alleged a large number people had got possession of their flats recently but were unable to move into their dream homes due to the delay in the expressway project. “Out of 300 villas in our project, only three are occupied,” said Dr TN Paliwal, a resident of Sector 109. Biswajit Kar, another resident, said, “Forget about the e-way, the authorities have not completed construction of inner roads in these areas either.”
 
 Saurabh Girdhar of Sector 82 said he had admitted his pregnant wife to hospital a few days ahead of the due delivery date. “Reaching hospital in case of an emergency can be a challenge due to the toll.”
 
 DXP Welfare Association has approached the Punjab and Haryana high court for speedy completion of the e-way. “The court last February issued notice to the authorities in this regard. However, the association is still waiting for an appropriate response from the authorities,” Amish Tandon, the lawyer representing the association, said. The matter is coming up before the court again in February. 
 
 
