AHMEDABAD: Was   questioned by the police about the   case when he was  ? If  ,  , is to be believed, investigators had called Modi for interrogation. However, material pertaining to Modi’s questioning was never placed on record in the case, according to Vanzara, who made this claim in his application before a special CBI court here, seeking a discharge from the case.

 His application reads, “The fact also remains that the then chief minister and present Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi was also called by the investigating officer and was interrogated. However, such material is not placed on record of this case. But the fact remains that it was the intention on part of the then investigating team, which had included one Satish Verma, IPS, (who) was anyhow on mission to reach the then chief minister of the state and rope him as the accused in this case, and for that purpose the story of this whole chargesheet is created and concocted.”
 
 Vanzara facing charges of criminal conspiracy
 
 Then additional commissioner of police, Satish Verma, who was a member of the Gujarat HC-appointed SIT, aggressively conducted the probe in the encounter case and was the first to declare before the HC that the encounter was fake and that he was facing hurdles in the probe. Verma later assisted the CBI in the probe which it conducted into the case.
 
 Vanzara highlighted the instance of Modi’s questioning and non-inclusion of its material in the chargesheet in support of his claim that the entire material on record of the CBI chargesheet is nothing but a false story, and there is no prosecutable evidence against him.
 
 Vanzara, like five other cops, is facing charges of criminal conspiracy, abduction, illegal detention and murder of four persons, including the 19-year-old girl from Mumbra.
 
 He has sought discharge from the case by citing his superior officer P P Pandey’s case, who was discharged from the case last month. Vanzara claimed that his role in the chargesheet is much less than that of Pandey.
 
 Vanzara put forth the discrepancy in the investigation and stated that the FIR was filed against 19 persons, but the CBI filed chargesheet against seven persons only. Those shown as accused in the FIR were surprisingly cited as witnesses and there was no independent and credible witness cited against him. He questioned the power of the investigators to pardon other accused during the course of investigation.
 
 
