For young students soon about to step into collegiate life for the first time ever, excitement and nerves are but natural. However, as exciting as the prospect of becoming an undergrad may seem, it’s important to realise that a huge part of our expectations about the years in university are built by their unrealistic portrayals on the big screen. So, here’s a list to help you out, deflating all those   clichés shown in   that are definitely blown out of proportion: 

 
 
 While it may be true that the faculty and lecturers in colleges keep a much more lax observation on students’ lives and attendance than in school, movies are way off the mark when they show their glitzy college characters barely showing up for classes. With most institutions regularly amping up their attendance policies now, bunking is not as easy as the actors make it seem. 
 
 
 
 Inter or intra-collegiate fests are definitely an important part of one’s life in university, but where movies veer away from reality entirely, is in the way they show these events. Those high-pressure scenarios where students’ entire lives revolve around winning one competition almost never happens anywhere outside of cinemas. What’s more, far from the toxic rivalries characterising these fests on reel, these events are often the places where new, interesting and lasting friendships are forged. 
 
 
 
 Movies — especially in   — make the undergrad years seem like a wonderland, where life only skips from one party to the next. This is a far cry from the truth, as any senior in college would be quick to agree. Students might be frequently attending these ragers in the beginning of college, but just one semester in, and they quickly get tired of it. Rest assured, the cool party you saw in the last movie is just a fluffy fantasy. 
 
 
 
 Be it a psychotic flatmate who wishes to live your life, or a dependable roomie who becomes your loving pal for the rest of your life — the big screen has made every possible roommate situation easily imaginable. The truth, however, is that one very rarely has any interaction with their fellow-lodger that goes beyond pleasantries and polite conversations. So, despite what the cinemas claim, students’ relationships with their roommates is hardly that big of a deal. 
 
 
 
 Nearly every movie set around the lives of college students mandatorily involves an extravagant holiday trip. And although it is true that one has a lot more freedom and financial independence during college to take such trips, they must be prepared for disappointment because such plans hardly ever come to fruition. As tempting as that trip to Goa with your besties might sound, the logistical realities of such a plan makes it very likely that it'll just remain a distant dream. 
 
 
 
 From the dictatorial Virus in 3 Idiots, to the overbearing Dean Hardscrabble in Monsters University, authority figures have always been painted in a negative light by movies. In actuality, Deans, HODs and supervising faculty members are immense support systems to students, guiding them and consistently offering them reliable advice. So, the next time you see a villainous principal onscreen, remember to laugh and dismiss the notion.
 
 Sanjana Sindhe
