BENGALURU: The Bangalore Development Authority ( ) has issued notice to a street dog caretaker after residents of a layout in JP Nagar 9th Phase alleged unhygienic surroundings.

 Saiprasanna  , resident of BDA’s Pragati Layout, holds a dog feeder/colony animal caretaker card, issued by the Animal Welfare Board of India (AWBI). It certifies her status as a caregiver for community animals and that she’s responsible for providing food and medical assistance to them. 
 
 However, the BDA notice dated January 18 said Iyengar’s activities were against public interest and that the layout was built for residential use and not for rearing dogs. Residents had also complained of stench from Iyengar’s house and barking of dogs.
 
 Iyengar takes care of 35 to 40 dogs in the area which includes feeding them daily, vaccinating and sterilizing them. Stating that she has been doing so for the last five years as a resident of the layout, Iyengar said the issue escalated due to rampant garbage dumping in a corner of the layout.
 
 “Everyone knew I used to feed dogs. They also used to leave vegetables for cows on the side of the road. It started with verbal complaints from neighbours who didn’t want the dogs to be fed around their homes, but I can’t feed them inside my house. I had kept some food for dogs outside my residence, but one of the neighbours washed it off and even proceeded to pour water on me. That is when I filed a complaint with police who asked us to resolve the issue internally seeing my animal feeder card,” she said.
 
 A few days later, she was summoned to Konanakunte police station and told the residents’ association had filed a complaint against her. Both parties met at the station to reach a compromise.
 
 “Eight to 10 association members filed a complaint saying the resident (Iyengar) was not cleaning up after feeding the dogs, thus making a mess in the colony. From her side, she said she would feed in empty fields and take care of the mess. They spoke among themselves and reached a compromise,” Konanakunte police inspector  .
 
 Madegowda, assistant executive engineer, BDA, said, “There is no law preventing her from feeding dogs, but we have got a complaint from residents. They also claimed that she was using an empty site for these activities. If she has permission from the site owner, then we have no problem. If residents can co-exist, we have no reason to get involved. We have not yet received her reply and will respond accordingly,” he said.
 
 
