SURAT: A 33-year-old   from outside a   here on Monday afternoon. The victim was later released by the kidnappers after they tried to recover   from him. Police investigation revealed that one of the kidnappers is a suspended police head constable.

 A resident of Adajan, Jignesh Patel was kidnapped at around 1pm when he was on ground floor of Westfield Shopping Complex on Ghod Dod Road. Patel was in the parking area of the complex when three men got down from a car and kidnapped him. The fourth kidnapper was behind the wheel. 
 
 The car left from the spot and a shop owner Kishan Shah immediately alerted police, who got into action and identified those involved in the kidnapping. One of the accused was identified as Anisuddin Anwarali Saiyed, a police head constable, who is currently under suspension. One more accused was identified as Kalpesh Rathod. Police are yet to identify the other two accused. 
 
 The kidnappers took the victim out of city to an under construction site at Kim village in Surat district. Meanwhile, police traced the location of the accused, but before they could reach there, the four returned to the city and freed Patel at Jahangirpura. 
 
 Patel, who deals in coffee and tea mix for vending machines, contacted police to inform them about his release. He told police that the accused suspected him to have heavily invested in Bitcoins. “The accused demanded Bitcoins from him as ransom for his release. The accused introduced themselves as cops and threatened action if Patel failed to pay them Bitcoins,” the police said.
 
 Saiyed and a head constable Chintan Shah were earlier booked and arrested from an area under Kapodara police station for the alleged kidnapping of a textile businessman. They threatened to frame him in a narcotics case to extort Rs 10 lakh in April 2017. Both the cops were posted at Udhna police station then and had introduced themselves as ATS officials. Saiyed is under suspension since then. He had also been booked at Mahidharpura police station in a cheating case. So far no arrest has been made in the kidnapping case. 
 
 
