HYDERABAD :   smashed all records by nabbing  , 2,293 to be precise, driving under the   on New Year’s eve. Though no fatal accidents were reported from the core city, five people lost their lives on the outskirts in four separate accidents and at least one of them is suspected to be due to drunk driving.

 On New Year’s eve in 2016, traffic police of the three commissionerates — Hyderabad, Cyberabad and Rachakonda — had booked 1,594 cases, while on the intervening night of December 31, 2017, and January 1, 2018, the three traffic police units set a new record by booking 2,293 drunken driving (DD) cases.
  
  
 Hyderabad traffic police had booked the bulk of the cases, 2,293. The 100 special teams, deployed by the traffic cops to conduct special drunk driving checks, had registered 1,477 cases in Hyderabad, 582 in Cyberabad and 234 in Rachakonda.
 
 “We posted several DD check teams at places where party revellers, after New Year celebrations on the outskirts, would enter the core city. So at Bapughat and Narayanamma Engineering College, check points that fall under Tolichowki traffic PS, maximum cases were registered as revellers coming from Gachibowli, Shamshabad and Narsingi side were caught,” Hyderabad joint commissioner (traffic) V Ravinder told TOI.
 
 Most cases in Cyberabad were registered in residential areas abutting IT hub like Kukatpally, Madhapur and Miyapur.
 
 At Road Number 45, Jubilee Hills, TV anchor M Pradeep was caught by police while he was coming to Banjara Hills from Madhapur at 2.56am in his BMW car. Pradeep’s blood alcohol count (BAC) was 178 mg/100 ml (permissible limit is 30 mg/100ml), which means he might get a prison sentence.
 
 “The number of people booked has increased significantly because of conducting the checks till 4am. At some points, checks started at 9am and continued till 5am. We could say the operation was successful as no fatal accidents have been reported in the core city,” Hyderabad DCP, Traffic, A V Ranganath said.
 
 
 
 Five persons lost their lives in separate road accidents on city outskirts on New Year’s eve. A teenager, M Sai Charan, 19, of Ghatkesar died, while his brother-in-law Sahadev and their friend Uday sustained injuries when their bike crashed on the road due to rash driving.
 
 In second incident, stone cutter V Raju (25) died after his bike crashed into a roadside tree at Peddammacheruvu in Keesara in the wee hours of Monday.Police said he was driving under the influence of alcohol.
 
 In third incident, Vijay (25), astudent, died after being hit by a car while crossing the road at Keshampet X Roads in Shadnagar on Sunday night. “He failed to notice the car approaching him and died on the spot,” Shadnagar police said.
 
 In another incident at Amangal, two farmers bringing vegetables from Guttalapally village died after their van was hit by a Tata Xenon at a high speed. The farmers — Muttaiah (55) and Ramulu (40) sitting next to the driver died on the spot. Drivers of both vehicles escaped with injuries.
 
 
 
