LUDHIANA: The project to provide 24x7 water supply in sectors 32 and 32-A by   (Glada) has met with a hurdle, as residents of the area have shown resentment against this work. Leaders of the   (BJP) and   have come to loggerheads with each other over this issue.   was going to construct an overhead water tank in a public park in the area. But residents showed resentment against construction of this water tank, after which work was stopped by the contractor two days ago.

 Residents rued that already one water tank was available in the area, and even that was not in use. They said officials should construct the tank in another park where more space was available, as in case of any incident, there will be no escape for residents in a small park. Moreover, children will not get space to play after this water tank is constructed.
 
 Glada officials were constructing more tubewells and water tanks in the area so that water supply throughout the day could be given to these localities. Glada had to depend on water tanks because surface water was not available in the area. Congress MLA Sanjay Talwar said the project was approved by Glada officials after verifying all facts. He said it was for the convenience of the public, and not for any individual party or person. Talwar said in the past too, very important projects have been opposed by some residents under the provocation of some politicians.
 
 One BJP leader said there was no use of the water tank in the area, and the money would be wasted, because one tank constructed in the past was never used. Meanwhile, Glada officials claimed they cannot start the work unless residents stop their protest.
 
 Notably, Glada is handling the maintenance of some localities on  , and for these localities, it has planned 24x7 water supply through water tanks and tubewells. MC also has plans to provide 24x7 water supply through the Smart City Mission in some areas, but it is now only at the tendering stage. Moreover, the supply will be through the Sidhwan Canal, and the entire city will also be supplied Sidhwan water after its treatment with the help of World Bank funding.
 
 
