COIMBATORE: The recent downpour has exposed the city’s engineering flaws with many areas turning into water pools because of clogged drains and storm water drains with wrong gradient.

 And it threw the normal life out of gear. For instance, 30-year-old R Saradha was stuck in nearly 3ft water on   at Red Fields near Sungam Junction. Elderly couple Rajathi, 58, and Ramesh, 60, had to literally drag their vehicle through the water all the way to Sungam Junction.
 
 Civic activists said the civic body engineers only focus on low lying areas in the city such as Lanka Corner Junction,   flyover under-bridge and Kikani under-bridge whenever it rains. “But locations such as Thadagam Road,  , Red Fields, Puliyakulam and railway station area become non-motorable every time it rains,” an activist said.
 
 According to Ramesh, Sungam Junction always sees waterlogging, no matter if the rain last for long or not. “There is waterlogging even when it rains for just 10 minutes. If it’s a heavy rain, vehicles cannot even pass through,” he said.
 
 According to Ramesh, water from Avinashi Road, defence establishments and Trichy Road flows into Sungam Junction, turning it into a pool.
 
 A similar scene was witnessed at Thadagam Road near Pal Company Junction. Anitha, a local resident, said it’s a nightmare whenever it rains. “The entire drainage overflows and there is a huge water fountain. Once, the drainage lid came out because of the water force and the sewage water flowed on the road like a river,” she said.
 
 Senthil Kumar, assistant commissioner of central zone, said city corporation commissioner Vijayakarthikeyan had held a review meeting last week and sought a report on the drains that requires desilting in each zone. “We are identifying the locations and will submit a report. We will check these areas and ensure steps are taken to avoid waterlogging,” he said.
 
 The assistant commissioner of west zone, S V Kumar, said they had met highways department officials several times seeking a solution to waterlogging. “We have been working for the past two months. The highways need to relay the road as it tapers towards one end. The entire water from buildings from as far as Vadavalli area come and drain there, turning the area into a pool,” he said.
 
 The highways department officials, however, blamed the underground drainage and storm water drainage for waterlogging. “The drains need to be widened and desilted,” an engineer said.
 
 Corporation engineer said sullage trucks, tree cutters and workers have been kept ready at each zonal office to handle emergency situations arising out of heavy rainfall.
 
 
