GHAZIABAD: Students of Ghaziabad gave a stellar performance in CBSE class 12 exams results of which were declared on Saturday. Three out of top ten are from Ghaziabad who secured second and third positions in all India ranking. While   of   (SAJ) secured a whopping 99.6 % to claim second position,   of same school and Nakul Gupta of DPS Rajnagar scored 99.4 % to bag third place in all India ranking.

 
 An elated Anoushka while speaking to TOI in her school said "I didn't expect this and it is still hard to believe." But even though she scored a perfect 100 in four out of total five subjects she is now hoped to get 100 in English as well. "I scored 98 in English and in hindsight I think I should have put in little effort more in this subject , but otherwise I am happy" added Anoushka.
 
 When asked about how she prepared for the examination she says "I have been regular in my studies and followed same routine for the last two years and I guess that's why I did not feel much of pressure prior to exam." "I made notes and kept on revising chapters regularly but English was one subject which was relatively tough to deal with" added Anoushka.
 
 Anoushka's mother   who is a housewife later said that her daughter was studious right from the childhood. "She was always studious and took her studies seriously since her childhood and she always did well in school, I was confident that she would do well but never thought she would come second" said Ranjita Srivastava, Anoushka's mother.
  
  
 
 
 Anoushka whose father SP Srivastava works in   wants to become an IAS officer. "I want to become an IAS officer and hope to clear the exam someday" said Anoushka.
 
 Her school mate Kshitij Anand of same school who secured third position was away in Ranchi to attend the funeral of his maternal grandfather who passed away on 12th of this month. Speaking to TOI over phone says Kshitij "I am experiencing a mixed feeling due to the death of my grandfather but overall I am happy with the result." "But scoring 100% in English has really come as a surprise as I never expected this even though I had chalked out a special strategy for this subject, I had made notes for each chapter and revised it whenever I got time" said Kshitij.
 
 Kshitij whose father is a deputy director on ministry of defense while his mother a school teacher wants to become an aeronautical engineer. "Since childhood I had always marveled at the planes and rockets and that stayed with me till this day and I know this is what I want to do in future" said Kshitij .
 
 Nakul Gupta of DPS Rajnagar has bagged joint third spot in all India ranking. Son of a business Nakul wants to join Indian Foreign Service. On the strategy adopted while preparing for exams Nakul says "I took it easy and did not exert too much but instead carried on with daily studies." He scored 99.4 % to claim joint third rank.
 
 
