NEW DELHI: In the guise of “curing” a man, a  , aided by his wife, raped the victim’s wife and extorted money from the couple. A   recently sentenced the occultist to 10 years behind bars and his wife for seven years, for being complicit in the crime and the blackmail that followed.

 “Taking advantage of the faith of prosecutrix and her husband, she was sexually assaulted and other offences have also been committed by both convicts,” held fast-track court judge  .
 
 The couple had approached Warsi in 2007, when the husband was facing health issues and the doctors who saw him said there was nothing wrong with him. The occultist told the couple that the husband’s ordeal was due to “paranormal activities”. 
 
 One on occasion, the convict demanded Rs 10,000 for carrying out animal sacrifice. Later in 2013, the convict told the couple that there was something wrong with the victim’s house and they wanted to “purify” it. And as a part of their ritual, they drugged the man and wife with a sedative-laced drink. Warsi raped the woman while she was unconscious and after she regained consciousness, she realised something was amiss with her clothes.
 
 What followed was a series of extortion demands. Initially, the convicts demanded Rs 50,000 or else they threatened to misuse the alleged video recording of the crime. There was a subsequent demand of Rs 1.5 lakh that the survivor refused to pay citing her inability. The tipping point for the survivor came when the convicts offered only “half of the video” for Rs 75,000. The woman and her husband then filed a complaint with the police.
 
 When the convicts’ rebuttal came, their counsel argued that the survivor and the occultist were having an “illicit relation”. When this fact, the lawyer asserted, was brought to Warsi’s wife and the survivor’s in-laws, the latter acted in resentment and implicated the convicts. There was also an argument that the survivor and her husband had stayed at Warsi’s house during the wedding of the latter’s daughter. “Staying at the accused’s house itself doesn’t prove the illicit relations between prosecutrix and the convict,” the court observed.
 
 The court noted that the so-called treatment of the couple continued for about six years. 
 
 
