Mumbai: Canada’s startup   is set to be a regular feature in its   landscape. Launched as a pilot in 2013, the   document tabled recently in the   says it will be a “permanent pathway for immigration” from March 31. The government also proposes to make the process easier for applicants.

 Under the pilot, entrepreneurs received over Canadian $3.7 million as investment from designated entities. Nearly 28% of the approved applicants were Indian nationals. With the doors opened wider, many more are queuing up. The advantages are manifold —  , no requirement to invest one’s own funds, a thriving ecosystem for startups and proximity to the US markets. In fact, an ever growing protectionist regime in the US is prompting many to take a closer look at neighbouring Canada. 
 
 Entrepreneur Vikram Rangnekar, who gave up his US   and moved to Canada in 2016, says, “Canada’s   visa programme is one of the best in the world as it offers permanent residency to the founding team and their families. Other countries have merely paid lip service, with startup visas being restrictive in nature, thus adding to the stress and risk of the founding team. For instance, startup visas granted by France, New Zealand, Singapore and the US are very temporary and are granted or taken away at the government’s discretion. The time frames of these visas are also much shorter than what is required by a startup to achieve traction and growth.”
 
 Entrepreneurs keen on Canada’s startup visa need to obtain a minimum funding (which, in immigration parlance, is referred to as support) from one or more of the over 50 designated partners comprising Canadian   or   (VCFs) or they need to be accepted in a Canadian business incubator programme.
 
 Saba Z Naqvi, immigration attorney at  , says, “One of the main attractions of the startup visa programme is the relatively low minimum investment requirement that needs to be secured by visa applicants. A minimum investment of Canadian $200,000 is stipulated if the investment comes from a designated VCF, or $75,000 if it’s from angel investor groups. Further, there is no minimum investment threshold requirement if the investment is secured from a business incubator. The startup visa applicants are not required to invest any of their own funds or have a minimum net worth. The only requirement is that the applicant must have adequate funds to support himself and family upon arrival in Canada — for a family of four this works out to Canadian $23,181 (which translates into Rs 11.5-odd lakh).” (See graphic for steps.)
 
 After six years of working in the US, Rangnekar wanted to develop his own ideas. “This was not possible under the H-1B visa. Also, with an ever extending green card wait, a permanent residency in the US was out of the question,” he points out. As his business plans were yet to crystallise, Rangnekar and his family migrated under another route — permanent residency under express entry. But, with the startup visa programme gaining momentum, his advice to wannabe entrepreneurs is: Go for it!
 
 Rangnekar has successfully launched his startup —  , a serverless app platform for developers. His blog   is a big hit among techies, especially in the Silicon Valley who are exploring a move to Canada.
 
 Canada proposes to allocate $4.6 million over five years to enhance the startup visa experience. Chetan Sehgal, partner and country coordinator for India at business consultancy firm  , says, “Some of the planned changes include developing a better online portal to evaluate applicants before they pitch their ideas to investors and potentially having government officials directly involved in connecting accelerator programmes and entrepreneurs instead of leaving 100% of the onus on the applicants to connect with the many accredited organisations.”
 
 “Low quality business proposals were a challenge reported by the government under the pilot programme. Educational qualifications and a good command over English hold Indian applicants in good stead. The objective of the programme is to attract companies that are innovative, create jobs for Canadians and those which can compete at the global scale. Thus, pitches to investors and the business plan should speak on how the applicant’s business will achieve the objectives of the Canadian government,” advises Sehgal.
 
 
