JALANDHAR: After Canadian Prime Minister Justin   faced questions on invitation to Jaspal Atwal, who was convicted for attack on a visiting Punjab minister in 1986, the leader of Canada’s third party in parliament and Trudeau’s challenger in the elections next year, is facing a backlash over his affiliations with Sikh separatists.

 Jagmeet Singh, leader of the New Democratic Party, was a keynote speaker at a rally in San Francisco in 2015 for an independent Sikh homeland to be carved out of India, known as Khalistan, Canadian media reported. Behind him on stage was a large poster of  , the leader of an armed extremist group who died in a shootout with Indian forces.
 
 Clarifying his position, Jagmeet issued a statement on Wednesday, condemning “all acts of terrorism in every part of the world”. He also flagged the issues of human rights and “1984 Sikh genocide”, saying terrorism could never be seen as a way to advance the cause of any one group. “It only leads to suffering, pain and death,” he said.
 
 “My belief in human rights includes a fundamental principle that is written into Article 1 of the UN Charter: respect for equal rights and self-determination. Questions regarding the future of India are not for me to decide. I am not a citizen of India or an Indian politician. I am focused on building a stronger Canada, a country where we tackle growing inequality, where we unlock the full potential of our citizens and where no one is left behind,” he said in his statement.
 
 “I have long been an advocate for peace and human rights in Canada and around the globe. It’s important to name human rights atrocities as I have done in order to expose them and ensure they do not happen again,” he said.
 
 “I have seen pain and anger and my approach has always been to give space to those feelings in order to work through them, but never to condone acts of violence.”
 
 About his presence at the San Francisco rally in 2015, he said, “I spoke directly about the pain in the community and my own path to learning about my heritage. When faced with the knowledge that your relatives were targeted for who they were, you are faced with the question of how to respond. My response was to embrace my identity and work harder to stand up for human rights and not allow the voices of the marginalized to be made silent”.
 
 After his statement, ‘National Post’ reported about him attending another panel discussion ‘Sovereignty and Polity’ organized by the UK-based National Sikh Youth Federation (NSYF) in the suburbs of London. “NSYF advocates for an independent Khalistan,” it reported.
 
 
