CHARMINAR: The Telangana State   ( ) chairman Mohammed Saleem has assured that all possible arrangements are being made by the government for peaceful passage of the holy  . 

 In order to ensure a hassle-free festival experience, the chairman has asked   officials to check fat adulteration in haleem and take action against people who are indulging in unfair practices. Lakhs of people throng haleem centres during Ramzan and the outlets make huge profits, even shipping out the mouth-watering dish to various parts of the country.
 
 TSWB chairman Saleem also asked GHMC officials to make sure that areas surrounding mosques are clean. He further asked the civic body to repair damaged roads and take up special sanitation arrangements.
 
 Authorities have been asked to lift garbage twice a day, tackle the stray dogs menace, ensure uninterrupted power supply, drinking water facilities and regular supply of water to mosques and in slum areas.
 
 "The government is committed to provide all facilities for Muslims in the holy month of Ramzan. For this purpose, the GHMC, police, Hyderabad Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (HMWS&SB), Transco and   officials were reminded to make sure all amenities are in place during sehar and Iftar hours," said Saleem, chairman TSWB.
 
 The GHMC for its part has assured that all facilities will be in place during the Ramzan for devotees.
 
 "It has decided that a meeting with hoteliers will be held with regard to safety measures at the haleem bhattis," said an official.
 
 South zone DCP V Satyanyaraya said that all precautionary steps were being taken to ensure peace during the festival and that adequate police personnel were being deployed. Apart from this, he said that She Teams will be deployed in the night bazaar and troublemakers will be not spared at all.
 
 The meeting was attended by joint collector, Hyderabad, and Rachakonda police officers along with GHMC, the Water Board, TSCPDC and Dairy Development Corporation officials.
 
 
