NEW DELHI: The   headed by Arvind Kejriwal moved the   on Friday and accused   of disobeying the apex court’s 1996 order directing the state to release 450 cusecs of   daily to Delhi for drinking purposes.

 In its urgent application drafted for Delhi Jal Board ( ) by senior advocate Parag Tripathi, the AAP government said it was seeking “most urgent interim directions for supply of 450 cusecs of water in Yamuna river to Delhi at Wazirabad reservoir for drinking water purposes to Delhi, which is in the midst of an acute water crisis owing to stoppage of supply of water by Haryana”.
 
 “Haryana is defying the Supreme Court’s directions to supply drinking water at Wazirabad reservoir and is taking undue advantage of being an upper riparian state. It has converted Yamuna in Delhi into a dry river having virtually no water and consequently no water is available for treatment at Wazirabad,” the DJB said.
 
 The DJB requested the   to direct Haryana to “ensure daily supply at least 450 cusecs of potable water at Wazirabad carriage reservoir and to keep it full at all times and have a daily monitoring of water quantity and quality at Wazirabad barrage/reservoir by an independent agency”. Tripathi is likely to mention the application for urgent hearing before CJI Dipak Misra on Monday.
 
 Yamuna water sharing between Delhi and Haryana has been a contentious issue for decades and the SC had ordered Haryana to release 450 cusecs of water to Delhi way back in February 1996.
 
 In February 2016, there was again a tussle between the two governments over damage to Munak canal that also supplies water to Delhi. While Haryana had promised to repair it on a war footing and the Army had to step in to protect it from quota agitators, the SC had advised political parties running the two states to work together rather than score political points. 
 
 In April 2015, Haryana government had moved a plea in Delhi High Court accusing the DJB of wasting water by not opening the gates of its twin pipelines connecting Munak canal to the Wazirabad water treatment plant. The state had also contended that the Delhi HC did not have the jurisdiction to go into the matter of inter-state water disputes as well as interpret inter-state agreements and their implementation. 
 
 The DJB too had moved a plea seeking to restrain Haryana's irrigation department from connecting the older Delhi sub-branch canal with the new Munak canal.
 
 
