MUMBAI: The fight against   in the city now not only includes new drugs and hi-tech machines, but even simple solutions like removal of   or putting  . 

 A pilot project started by the   a year back found that these simple   are reducing the risk of transmitting TB within their dispensaries and primary health centres.
 
 The study, covering over 100 civic health centres in seven wards, was started along with the US-based Centers for Diseases Control in mid-2016. While most centres needed only minor changes, around 10% needed structural changes to ensure that the airflow cycles change constantly, thereby sweeping out the airborne TB bacilli. Ideally, airflow changes need to change 12 to 14 times every hour. Some centres have been asked to undertake changes like putting an extra floor so that TB patients and non-TB patients can be kept a distance away, thereby reducing risk for the latter.
 
  
 The city’s TB officer Dr Daksha Shah said this is a part of the Mumbai Mission TB Control programme that started in 2012. “The airborne infection control programme has three main focus areas—administrative, environmental and personal protective equipment,” she said. The administrative changes involved those done at administration level, while the environment component involved civil works and structural changes. The PPE component was meant for BMC staff. 
 
 Consider the health centre at Prabhat Colony, Santacruz (E), where a healthy 176 airflow changes were recorded every hour. The centre was assessed by an airborne infection control team in April 2017 and advised three main changes. “We were asked to keep the window and ventilator open at all times and earmark one door only for entry of TB patients,” said Dr Prakash Kajrolkar, who heads the centre. The third suggestion was to change the direction of the TB counsellor’s table in such a way that the air flowed from his table towards the patient’s chair instead of vice versa. “These measures help ensure that there is a constant flow of air,” said TB officer Dr Ranjeeta Brid.
 
 Along with the CDC, a 41-indicators tool was developed to assess the AIC implementation in each institute. “Baseline assessments of 102 health institutes were done in all. While 81 have had their first assessment, 44 have had second assessment as well,” said Dr Shah. The results show significant improvement in AIC compliance in the wards. “Overall 79% improvements were observed,” said the officer.
 
 
