Mysuru: It is through the   of India that most of the constitutional provisions are made known to people, otherwise, they would be just be there in the constitution, said Bangalore university in-charge vice-chancellor V Sudesh here on Friday.

 The Department of Studies and Research in Law, attached to the   (UoM) held a two-day national conference on ‘Six Decades of  : Then, Now and Future’ at the department premises.
 
 Inaugurating the conference, Sudesh said the deliberation of the conference should focus on how India has functioned under the constitution in the past, present and what is the role we have in future. “We started off in a grand manner. The preamble is a best example for what all the constitution promised through equality, liberty and fraternity to the citizens of India. The ideals of the constitution - socialism, democracy and secularism - came much later, but how these ideals shaped the lives of individuals in the past is a moot question in itself”, he said.
 
 Sudesh explained the status of the Constitution during its initial launch and said, “With the help of the Constitution, then prime minister Jawaharlal Nehru developed a development model for India. But feudalism dies hard. Colonialism resists constitutional liquidation and bureaucracy. Indians have not moved away from the same feudalistic concept that we lived in the British era. We still have land problems, food and poverty and the constitution continues to fight all these”
 
 Sudesh opined that the constitution can be classified in to two – ‘The Nehru Era’ which concentrates on development through the green revolution along with Industrial revolution. “And then comes ‘the Manmohan Era’, when in 1991 when India opened up to LPG-liberalization, privatization and globalization during the period of the then PM PV Narasimha Rao, and former PM   who was then the finance minister,” he said.
 
 Sudesh asserted that the right to privacy is one of the best examples of the liberalized era. The espousal of new causes is enabling the Constitution of India to shine brighter, he added.
 
 Sudesh also spoke about the role of law students and said, the Constitution for law students, faculty and law researchers is different to that of a layman. “It is the responsibility of the law faculty to discuss the challenges posed to the executive, legislature and judiciary. The purpose of studying law is not for the egoistic satisfaction of knowing the constitution but ensure the message of the constitution reaches the downtrodden and the last man of the society,” he added.
 
 UoM registrar   said a majority of freedom fighters including Gandhi, Nehru and Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel were barristers. “Even in the late 1980s, law students were entering politics or they wanted to take up competitive examinations. The present set of law students should develop a fighting spirit, she said.
 
 Department chairman Ramesh, T R Maruthi and M Suresh Benjamin were present.
 
 
