PATNA: Petroleum and natural gas minister   said on Friday the rise in prices of petrol and diesel products in the country is due to international situation and the accompanying sudden increase in crude oil prices caused by disturbances in the Middle East.

 “Disturbances have occurred in Syria. Iran is also facing sanctions. The twin aspects have caused sudden spurt in crude oil prices,” Pradhan said and pointed out that the Centre is mulling over bringing petrol and diesel under Goods and Services Tax (GST).
 
 Pradhan was addressing media persons after the launch of phase II of the extended PM Ujjwala Yojana at Baheri in Darbhanga district to make the   gas connection a universal phenomenon in the country covering all families. 
 
 Referring to the frequent demand made by deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi, who was with him at the press meet and heads the committee on GST Network, Pradhan said, “The Centre has been working on the ways to bring petrol and diesel under GST. Modi ji has been making this demand regularly.”
 
 Pradhan also said the Centre has to decide the modalities and also discuss the nitty-gritty with the states in this regard. “We are working on it,” he added.
 
 Pradhan said the   has been highly successful in bringing down the women’s mortality caused by smoke generated by the use of traditional domestic fuels (like wood, cow dung, coal, weeds, etc) in kitchen, as around 5 lakh women used to die per year in the country, as per the   (WHO) report.
 
 He said the LPG use and gas connection has made 58% penetration in   where 90 lakh families still remain to be given gas connections. “We will cover them during the Phase-II of the PMUY,” Pradhan said, adding that changes have also been made in the payment of subsidy to families who get free gas connections.
 
 Earlier, in case of the grant of free gas connection to the family concerned, the Centre used to bear 50% of the cost and the remaining 50% by the family payable in instalments fixed. The family concerned used to get subsidy only after the clearance of the instalment payments, but now they would get subsidy in the natural process, Pradhan said.
 
 State BJP demands Rahul’s apology: BJP state president and Ujiarpur MP Nityanand Rai demanded apology from the   and its president Rahul Gandhi for scandalizing the apex court by orchestrating the demand for a probe through the public interest litigation (PIL) in the death of CBI special judge B H Loya in December 2014 that the Supreme Court rejected on Thursday.
 
 Rai also said Gandhi and his supporting parties have also maligned the image of BJP national president Amit Shah by dragging his name into the manufactured controversy regarding Loya’s death. “Rahul Gandhi should apologize before our party president,” Rai said.
 
 
