DHARWAD: With the assembly elections seeing a keen contest at almost all constituencies in the state and no clear wave in favour of any party, thousands of techies from north Karnataka districts working in Bengaluru and other places in the state are heading home to cast their votes.

 Not wanting to miss out on their role in deciding the fate of contestants, the techies are rushing out of Bengaluru to their native places. With Election officials taking custody of thousands of buses from state road transport corporations and private operators across the state, the public transport system has been hit and the techies are finding it difficult to get seats in buses.
 
 “Those who had booked their tickets well in advance are not having any problem in reaching their places. Some took leave on Friday and left on Thursday night. But those of us who did not get leave on Friday are facing difficulty in getting seats in buses. Even if seats are available,   operators are charging an exorbitant fare. We have to work till late evening on Friday and then leave for our places. Either we have to hire a taxi or share a friend’s car and travel at night to reach our home towns. Another option is to start early on Saturday morning and reach by noon and cast our vote before polling ends. We are trying our best to make it,” said Sandeep, a software engineer working in Bengaluru.
 
 ‘A question of our future’
 
 The techies said they were realizing the importance of educated citizens playing a pro-active role in electing their representatives when there is an opportunity to do so. 
 
 “Being cynical about elections and criticizing the administration for all the bad things in the system does not help. It is the question of our future and we will exercise our right,” said Pooja Purohit, another   from Dharwad and working in Bengaluru.
 
 While the techies are ready to pay more to reach their places to cast their vote, they are upset that the bus operators are fleecing them. “We have to get back to work on Monday and reach Bengaluru latest by Monday morning. Bus operators are charging heavily for our return journey too,” alleged Madhavi Neglur, who added that she would still not miss voting.
 
 When asked why they were not getting their names registered in the voter list in Bengaluru, Sandeep said he loves his home town and knows whom to elect in the interest of the development of the place. “Though I work in Bengaluru, Dharwad is my place,” he said.
 
 
