CHANDIGARH: Most traffic violators in Chandigarh are from Punjab and Haryana, police here informed the Punjab and Haryana high court on Monday, during the resumed hearing of a public interest litigation ( ) seeking stricter implementation of a rule banning modified motorcycles producing  .

 Following the submission, the court impleaded the state governments of Punjab and Haryana as parties in the case of traffic violations. The court has also sought a list of traffic violators who have been challaned more than once by Chandigarh police on the next date of hearing. The HC has asked the administration to continue strict action against people   and  .
 
 The HC has also sought details of traffic violators challaned for noise pollution from the Chandigarh district courts by the 
 . It was informed to the high court that the district courts were not that strict on people challaned for noise pollution as they are let-off after paying a fine of Rs 200-300, instead of the prescribed Rs 1,000.
 
 The court also sought details of habitual traffic violators from Chandigarh Police.
 
 Earlier, the court observed that traffic violators would be taught a lesson for not following the rules as it was going to get strict on traffic violators. The high court also directed the police to give details of mechanics who   which create noise pollution by the next date of hearing.
 
 Earlier, hearing the Chandigarh administration, the court was informed that 315 challans had been issued to traffic rule violators for nonfunctional silencers and loud music players in vehicles, till February 15, 2018.
 
 In this case, the petitioner, a Chandigarh resident, had submitted before the HC that people were openly flouting traffic norms by getting silencers of their bikes removed and modified to produce a jarring noise which scared passersby and created noise pollution It was also submitted that the modified bikes also created noise pollution by using pressure horns, giving a succession of unduly harsh, shrill, loud and alarming noise. The petitioner has sought directions to the administration to take preventive measures by spreading awareness among residents on the use of modified bikes. Many bikers are unaware that alteration of a factory model is illegal under the Motor Vehicles Act, 1988.
 
