BHOPAL: On social media some are calling it “Jor ka jhatka dheere se” policy of oil companies and some others “What an idea sirji”, referring to the manner in which petrol and diesel prices are being increased by the oil companies under dynamic pricing policy. But both wish to underline the same thing - in the new year, there has not been a single day when prices of petrol and diesel have not gone up.

 An increase of four paise one day and nine paise another day, doesn’t seem to bother a buyer much till he comes to realize that in 19 days’ time, petrol prices have gone up by almost Rs 2 per litre and diesel prices by Rs 3 per litre. Besides, the state government on Thursday notified a rule providing for 1 per cent cess on price of petrol as it stands that day, therefore raising the price of petrol by almost Rs one without oil companies doing anything to raise the prices as they have been doing every day in the year 2018.
 
 According to MP Petrol Pump Dealers’ Association, petrol price on January 1, 2018 was Rs 74.90, which went up to Rs 74.94 next day, Rs 74.99 on the third day of the new year and crossed Rs 75 per litre mark on January 4 to reach Rs 75.03. The prices continued to rise thereafter as well. It was Rs 75.05 per litre on January 5, Rs 75.19 on January 6 and rising slowly but steadily it stood at Rs 75.61 per litre on January 10. Petrol price crossed Rs 76 per litre mark on January 16 and the price that day stood at Rs 76.03 per litre and on Friday it stood at Rs 76.68 per litre.
 
 Similarly, diesel price was Rs 62.37 per litre on January 1 followed by Rs 62.45 per litre next day and Rs 62.54 on January 3. Steady rise in prices continued later in the week too with the price reaching Rs 63.11 per litre on the last day of the week. In next six days, diesel price per litre had increased by another Rs one to reach Rs 64.17 on January 14 and a week later, the price had increased by another rupee to reach Rs 65.28 on Friday i.e. January 19, 2018.
 
 “An increase of Rs 3 per litre in the price of petrol would have become a political issue in the past when dynamic pricing policy was not there and   controlled prices of diesel and petrol. But, now it doesn’t become an issue anymore because of daily change in prices,” said  , who was forwarding the chart of prices of petrol and diesel in the new year with a request that everybody shared it with all their friends.
 
 President of MP Petrol Pump Dealers’ Association Ajay Singh said, “I have a definite feeling that Union government still controls the price mechanism of oil companies. Prices of crude were increasing since September but prices remained static or went down at times till the   polls but following that prices have been going up and up consistently.” He said there should be some protective mechanism or umbrella to absorb rise of price in international market, if they go beyond a point so that consumers don’t have to bear all the pressure irrespective of their buying capacity.
 
