LUDHIANA: The 111th birth anniversary of martyr Sukhdev Thapar was celebrated in the city on Tuesday at two separate functions organized in the city. A programme was organized by nephews of the martyr at his ancestral home in Naughra, while a state-level programme was organized by the Punjab government at Guru Nanak Bhawan. The state government programme was presided over by cabinet minister Bharat Bhushan  , where prominent   leaders were present, but senior leaders skipped another programme organized at the martyr’s home. However, prominent leaders from other parties — including   (SAD) district president Ranjit Singh Dhillon, and Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) MLA Simarjit Singh Bains — attended the programme.

 Shaheed Sukhdev’s family members were disappointed by the cold response given by senior Congress leaders to their programme, but chose not to speak anything on the issue. Speaking to TOI, Sukhdev’s nephew and president of Shaheed Sukhdev Thapar Memorial Trust, Ashok Thapar, said: “We had personally invited all Congress leaders, from MLAs to ministers, but no one attended the programme. Our programme was a great success, as a huge sea of people turned up to pay homage to the great martyr, who was a true son of our soil. It’s been years now since we have been demanding opening of the direct route to Sukhdev’s ancestral home, as encroachments have blocked the road coming here from Chaura Bazar. We are soon going to meet chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh, and request for his personal intervention in this matter.”
 
 Meanwhile, addressing the gathering in the programme organized at Guru Nanak Bhawan, Ashu said: “There is an immediate need to prominently promote the spectacular history of the freedom struggle, the biographies of India’s iconic freedom fighters and martyrs in the school curriculum. Martyr Sukhdev was one of the great freedom fighters of the country who had sacrificed his life for the nation. At the National College in Lahore, he had motivated the youth to fight for the country’s freedom, and formed the Naujawan Bharat Sabha.”
 
 Ashu added: “The state government is committed to fulfil the dreams of martyrs and invoke a sense of patriotism among the youth. The Punjab government will continue to hold state-level functions to commemorate martyrs. Elimination of social evils and ensuring a peaceful country will be a real tribute to them. The state government is always available for any kind of help to the families of martyrs.” 
 
 
