Cuddling and pampering our furry friends is fun but how will you feel if you are told that this over indulgence is actually bad for your dog? “We get carried away by those puppy eyes, which actually creates a lot of problems for our pets,” says dog trainer Varun Anand. 

 As pet parents we like to take care of our pets and provide for them. Often, we start treating them as human babies – this overparenting can be troublesome for them. “Showing affection all the time or buying them a lot of toys can lead to behavioural issues in dogs as they stop valuing treats and respecting the owner,” says Anand. Even training such dogs gets difficult as pet parents fail to follow the advice of the trainer by pampering their dogs and hiding their problems.
 
 Renowned dog groomer Sanjeev says, “People don’t realise that dogs are very different from humans; dressing them up for long hours and giving them a bath very regularly is bad for their fur. Some people wash their dog’s feet every time they come back from a walk which makes their paws very fragile.”
 Over-pampered dogs grow up to be aggressive as they expect to be treated in the same way by everyone. “If you don’t train them to stay without you, they develop severe separation anxiety, even talking to them in a baby voice will result in them not responding when someone calls out to them in a normal tone. In such cases, if the dog has to be sent to a boarding, it gets difficult for it to adjust,” says Achal Gupta, owner of a pet resort. Such dogs stop eating, constantly whine and don’t sleep in the absence of their owner.
 
 Feeding them with your hand or giving them too much variety to sample will make them fussy eaters. Later, even if you try, your pet won’t eat unless hand-fed. Feeding them all the time can also result in obesity, which can create a lot of medical issues. 
 
 Our affection and love may not only spoil our pooches but it can lead to serious behavioural and health issues. Dogs love consistency and respect rules; and if you want your dog to be disciplined, self sustainable, confident and healthy, it doesn’t mean you love them less. In fact, it’s quite the opposite. 
 
 
 
 This is a very common problem which occurs because of lack of discipline in the daily schedule of dogs. You should fix a certain time for his meals and not feed him in the middle. Make sure you remove the food bowl after he has eaten – don't leave the bowl lying around with food for long hours. You should also avoid giving him a bite if you are eating as this encourages the dog to ask for more. Also make sure that he is dewormed as scheduled by his vet to avoid any medical problems. 
 
 
 
 
 Are you a proud pet parent? Have a cute cat story to share? Maybe your guinea pig is giving you trouble? Whatever is your creature companion, we are here to listen to you. Send your photos, queries and stories to timeslife@timesgroup.com
 
