By: Sameer Suryakant Kulkarni

 Life without an   card has become extremely difficult.
 
 One could debate this massive scheme’s advantages or disadvantages for hours, but not having this card today can stop you from getting a phone number.
 
 You need it everywhere — for opening a  , enrolling your child in a school, filing your tax returns, getting a loan or insurance and even for piped gas connections. Recently, I was considering enrolling my son for Aadhaar. He is just a year old, but I wanted to get the process over with as soon as possible.
 
 So recently, I approached of the city corporation’s zonal offices in my area. The Aadhaar section was fairly crowded. I walked up to the desk and an official told me only 100 tokens were being distributed every Monday, for the entire week. I understood this was a way to streamline Aadhaar operations; people get tokens for specific time slots. I was okay with that — A hundred Aadhaar registrations every week sounded “doable.” But, I was taken aback by what the official said next.
 
 He told me people start queueing up for the tokens as early as 4am. Now, I had never done anything government office-related at such an unearthly hour. In fact, our government offices are known to start late, and finish early. This piece of Aadhaar trivia took a few moments to sink in. I asked if it was absolutely necessary to be there at such an odd hour to get a token. The officer’s face was expressionless when he nodded.
 
 I then went to another zonal office, which was a couple of kilometres from my house. Surprisingly, the Aadhaar section there wore a deserted look. The prospect of getting my son enrolled here within an hour left me elated. I was about to call my wife and tell her to get my son to this zonal office when I decided it would be wise to check with the centre’s desk first. An official there said only 25 tokens were being distributed on a daily basis. That left me a little relieved because I could get a token any day of the week, unlike the other centre’s Monday-only token rule.
 
 But that relief didn’t last long. The official then told me people were queuing up from 4.30 am to be one of the lucky
 
 25. Stunned, I returned home with a heavy heart and decided to not enroll my son as there still was time for him. After ditching my Aadhaar plan, I went to bed. But my slumber was interrupted abruptly at around 4.20 am on Saturday morning. The first thought that crossed my mind was whether I should go and write my name down for the token at the zonal office. I grabbed some cash and left for the zonal office.
 
 Once there, I found two young fathers sitting on the centre’s steps holding the list. I wrote my name down on that list — ninth position. After adding my name, I was told to wait until the next Aadhaar aspirant came along. After a few minutes, a college student arrived and added his name to the list. Soon, the list reached its limit of 25 names and it was handed over to the night security guard. We were all then told to return at 9.30 am to collect the form.
 
 I dutifully reached the office again at 9.30 am for the form only to discover that I had been give a slot at 12.20pm. I returned home and asked my wife to skip everything else and get our son ready for his date with the Indian government. His turn came after about 30 minutes of wait; the process took 15.
 
 This whole chain of events got me thinking — if we need Aadhaar everywhere, why can’t we have adequate enrollment infrastructure? Why should a person — a citizen and a taxpayer — be forced to visit an Aadhaar office three times in a single day for the enrollment?
 
 More importantly, how can people who don’t own cars or bikes reach these Aadhaar centres as early as 4am?
 
 The writer works in the IT sector
 
