GURUGRAM: A team from the MCG health department visited   village on Wednesday to collect data on   patients there for the first time.

 The visit comes after green activists and mediapersons highlighted the issue of increasing number of cancer cases in the village in the past 5-6 years, which they allege is due to groundwater contamination owing to   formation at the Bandhwari waste treatment plant.
 
  
  
 The plant was established in 2009 to process waste. Chief minister   is set to visit the village on Friday to inaugurate a waste-to-energy (WTE) plant there. Last week, villagers had threatened to put up a protest against the inauguration, alleging it would worsen the situation.
 
 The village has a population of 5,000. The MCG officials recorded 15 cancer cases, including five patients and 10 deaths, on Wednesday. Dr Asrudin, principal medical officer, MCG, said, “We collected data on the number of cancer patients and deaths. I personally examined patients. However, it is not possible to come up with conclusive data after one visit. We have told villagers to visit Civil Hospital for not just treatment but to submit records of deaths and other cancer cases, if they know of any. We will also make more visits. The aim is to find out whether there is groundwater contamination in the area and if it is leading to cancer, or other factors are responsible for the same.” 
 
 A cancer patient from Bandhwari told TOI that the authorities had taken too long to wake up to the issue. “Fifteen years ago, this was a beautiful village surrounded by the Aravalis. Nobody had heard of cancer here. I was diagnosed with cancer three years ago and I know I am not going to survive. I wish the authorities had taken note of this in time,” said Ghanshyam who is suffering from throat cancer.
 
 Vijay (name changed), who lost his brother to abdominal cancer two years ago, said, “We didn’t have money for a water purification system. My brother died two years ago from abdominal cancer and left behind his unemployed wife and two children. Even now, when we are so scared of the rising number of cancer cases, we don’t have enough money for a water purification system. It seems that poor families in the village will ultimately die.” His brother’s family is dependent on him. 
 
 Both villagers and green activists said the move by the authorities was mere eyewash. “Why did it take them more than six years to send a team to the village to collect data on cancer patients? We have been raising this issue in public meetings and sending complaints to them. This is eyewash and a diversionary tactic as the   chief minister is set to inaugurate the waste-to-energy plant at Bandhwari on Friday. We are planning a major protest against the inauguration,” said Manoj, a resident of Bandhwari village.
 
 “The reports by   (submitted in NGT in September 2017) show that the groundwater has been polluted owing to leachate formation at the waste treatment plant. The plant will also pollute air with dioxins and furans. It is sad that authorities have just started collecting data after so many lives have been lost,” said Vaishali Rana Chandra, an environmentalist and a resident of Gwal Pahari, located adjacent to Bandhwari village. In September 2017, CPCB found that the groundwater in Bandhwari and Mangar villages were polluted to such an extent that it was unfit for drinking.
 
 According to doctors, there is a direct link between contaminated water and certain types of cancers. “There are many studies linking cancer to contaminants and toxins, including lead, cadmium, and nickel. Many cancers, including abdominal, intestinal and colon cancers, are related to water contamination,” said Dr Vinay Samuel Gaikwad, head of oncology, Paras Hospital.
 
 
