PUNE: Two men on a motorcycle died after being hit by a heavy iron object that fell from a trailer truck which had hit a four-wheeler and caused a pile-up of vehicles at Kamshet on the old   highway on Tuesday evening. 

  
  
 
 Four other persons were injured in the   that led to a three-hour traffic snarl on the old highway. The Kamshet police said the accident occurred as the truck driver lost control over the vehicle on a slope on way to Mumbai from Pune. 
 
 The truck first hit a car from the rear. Under the impact of the collision, the iron job works in its rear carriage fell off the vehicle. 
 
 One of the iron objects hit   (25) and Rahul Namdev Patekar (23), leaving them dead on the spot. The police said both Thakare and Patekar were residents of Lonavla.
 
 The trailer truck was heading towards Mumbai from Pune along the old highway. The driver lost control over the vehicle on a steep slope after the Kamshet khind (gorge).
 
 The truck hit the car and a couple of trucks. It then jumped over the cement road divider and collided with four vehicles. Altogether three heavily loaded container trucks, two cars, two tempos and a truck were badly damaged in the accident.
 
 Thakare and Patekar were on their two-wheeler trailing the heavy vehicles headed for Pune. Before the motorcyclist could apply the brakes or take a turn away from the vehicle for safety, the iron structure fell off the truck and smashed them.
 
 The accident led to a traffic jam on the highway and it took the authorities nearly three hours to ensure normal vehicular movement along the four-lane highway. 
 
 This was not the first time that the stretch along the old Pune-Mumbai highway witnessed such a fatal accident. Two men were killed as two trailers collided on the highway at Kamshet on October 9 last year. The accident had led to an over four-hour traffic congestion on both corridors of the busy highway.
 
 The accident had occurred when a Mumbai-bound trailer went out of the driver’s control and crossed over the median on the highway. It then hit another trailer moving in the opposite direction. Both the deceased were from  . Two persons were also injured in the accident.
 
 On February 21, a man was killed as the car he was travelling in turned turtle after ramming a slow-moving tempo in Kamshet. Over five years ago, in October 2012, drivers of two containers were killed on the spot when their vehicles collided on the highway near Kamshet.
 
 
