CHANDIGARH: Gauging the accuracy in the data of road accidents submitted by city hospitals and police department has become a matter of study in PGI, where it was found that out of the 537 and 375 cases reported in police and hospital records respectively, only 15% cases from the police records matched with the hospital records. Though the study was based on the records for June-July 2011, the PGI researchers maintain that not much has changed since then. 

 The study involved the total number of accidents that took place in Chandigarh in the month of June and July in 2011 and were reported to emergency department of three major government hospitals PGIMER, Government Medical College and Hospital-32 and Government Multi-Speciality Hospital-16. Each case reported in these hospitals was matched with the police records by using personal identifiers like name, age, sex and address of the victim to estimate the extent of under-reporting of road traffic accidents.
 
 
  
 
 For gathering traffic police records, the data was collected from monthly road   register at traffic police department, Chandigarh.
 
 The study was published this month in the International Journal of Community Medicine and Public Health by Dr PVM Lakshmi, Dr S Prinja and others from the   in PGI. 
 
 The study also maintained that among the Indian studies on under-reporting of road accidents in police records, under-reporting in Chandigarh was maximum (85%) as compared to the other studies conducted in different cities of India where it varied from 81% in Hyderabad to 50% in Bangalore. “The mismatch is due to non-maintenance of records at the hospitals and also owing to the fact that FIRs are not lodged following a compromise between the victim and the accused,” said Dr Lakshmi. Only 2.5% of all the cases were either completely or partially matched between hospital and police records.
 
 According to the study, the reasons for mismatch might be due to improper recording of medico legal case ( MLC) data in the OPD register of the hospitals or improper data retrieval by the   of the hospitals who provided the records for the study.
 
 
