Ludhiana: Micro small and medium enterprises (MSME), which are the backbone of Punjab’s industry, have given a thumbs down to the Budget. With no direct benefit to the industry and hike of 1% cess on income tax and introduction of 10% long-term capital gain ( ) tax, the businessmen are disappointed.

 They say there is nothing for small industry and the   government has failed to live up to their expectations and failed miserably to address their issues.
 
 At an interactive session organized by the Chamber of Industrial and Commercial Undertakings (CICU) on Thursday, in which the Budget was streamed live, majority of businessmen expressed their resentment over the FM totally ignoring the MSME sector. The businessmen, however, are hopeful that perks and benefits to the agriculture sector will indirectly benefit them as well.
 
 Upkar Singh Ahuja, CICU president, says, “There is neither anything for the MSME sector nor the exporters. It is disappointing as we were expecting a lot from the government, but not a single suggestion of ours was considered by the finance minister. The Budget could have been better.”
 
 Jaspal Singh, a bicycle parts’ manufacturer and exporter, says, “This is a very disappointing Budget. We have not been given a single benefit. What is even more shocking is that the government has put a burden on us by increasing cess on income tax by 1% and also introduced 10% LTCG tax. If they did not have to give us anything, they could have at least refrained from hiking cess and imposing a new tax.”
 
 Some taxation experts termed the Budget as positive. Ashok Juneja, president of   (PTBA), says, “We must appreciate the fact that the government has tried its best to reduce fiscal deficit by not announcing populist measures. Also, the steps to improve the living standards of the common man and the poor with free gas and power connections and housing for poor should be appreciated, as these will make India a developed nation.”
 
 “Once again, the Union government has disappointed us as no relief has been given as far as direct taxes are concerned. We were expecting enhancement in income tax exemption limit, but nothing has been done. On the contrary, extra burden of tax payment has been imposed on us in the form of increase in cess on income tax from 3% to 4%. The government wants to benefit corporates and lure farmers ahead of elections. It is a big disappointment for MSME sector. We feel that we should shut down our factories and start cultivation,” said Narinder Bhamra, president of Fasteners Manufacturers’ Association of India ( ).
 
 Ahuja adds, “I will give 50 of 100 to this Budget as it has nothing for the industry, especially MSME. The only thing positive about it is that the finance minister has taken steps for the progress of agriculture sector that will indirectly benefit the industry.”
 
 Meanwhile, capital market experts, too, have given a thumbs up to the Budget, saying the panic in share market was temporary and regardless of the new LTCG tax, investors will not refrain from investing in shares.
 
 Harjit Singh Arora of Master Trust, an equity trading company, says, “All important sectors have been covered. From capital market’s perspective, this is a good Budget. The 10% LTCG tax may not have any impact on markets in the long run.” 
 
 
