HYDERABAD: A visible culture change is taking place at India’s largest private sector company,   ( ). Not only has the energy-to-education enterprise provided flexible working hours to employees, it has also extended maternity benefits, allowing women to work half-day for a few months after maternity leave. 

 
 RIL, controlled by billionaire  , is getting younger with average age reducing and there is no diktat on formal dressing at work either. What’s more, over the last couple of years, sporting facilities such as a cricket stadium, a football and basketball ground have come up at its Navi Mumbai campus, while the canteen there boasts of around 16 different cuisines. These facilities are being utilised by employees throughout the day, indicating that they are taking charge of their work-life balance on working days. On weekends, the campus is thrown open to the families of employees.
 
 In an exclusive interview to TOI, RIL’s HR leads —   (hydrocarbons), and Sanjay Jog ( ) — said the culture change is about responding to the needs of young employees. Jog said, “Our campus looks like a college campus. Is it a change which is cultural? It is. The important thing is not that the facilities are present, but that they are being consumed any time of the day. A gymnasium is not being consumed only in the morning before work or after work, it is being used all day.”
 
  
  
 
 RIL’s disruptive entry into consumer-facing businesses like telecom (Jio) could have played a role in accelerating these changes. What is also said to be a driving factor is Gen Next leaders — Akash and Isha Ambani.
 
 Jog, however, junks the argument that it is merely the consumer businesses that are bringing about the change. “The core group for executing retail and telecom came from the hydrocarbons businesses, because they understand the   of the group,” he added. 
 
 According to Prashara, with the whole ecosystem changing, it’s about the flexibility to change with the changing times. “People demand flexible timings and the trigger was not retail or Jio, it was the need that was there and we moved to provide flexible timings. People choose to come in at any time of the day, while sticking to core hours,” Prashara said.
 
 The $51-billion RIL still draws a significant chunk of its turnover from refining and petrochemicals, but in terms of people strength, its consumer-facing business now contributes more than 50%. The strength of the consumer-facing businesses (telecom and retail) would only increase further. Jio’s current employee strength is over 1.50 lakh. “Turnover wise, the traditional businesses are big. But you need to view a business through people actually. People-wise, retail and Jio are big,” Prashara said.
 
 The average age of employees at RIL too has come down. The average age in retail and telecom is 27-28 years, while in the non-consumer facing side it is 32. Jog said, “To me, 32 itself is a significant change. It would have been higher earlier.”
 
 Prashara said, “The opportunity canvases have increased. Newer people are coming in and there are newer areas and avenues. People are aspirational, looking at growing, and if you don’t provide them the opportunities, you can’t hold them. As an organisation, the way we have grown is by betting on our people talent and capability.”
 
 The top executives from RIL’s HR division were in Hyderabad at the SHRM Tech conference, which RIL is partnering. Reliance’s presence at SHRM was a surprise to many. The group has not spoken at length about its people processes. 
 
 The stress on digital, however, is not restricted to the new-age businesses of RIL. Manufacturing is going to be tech- and AI-driven as well. “We are passionate about two things. One is digital world, and the other is people. Both these need to go hand in hand to ensure that, as we get on with these, we don’t lose either in the process. That’s where it’s becoming that much more important to start getting into tech, and we are also convinced about the fact that digital is the new life, as our chairman calls it,” Prashara said.
 
 “The context is simple. The earlier workforce that was coming in had to learn from word processing to power point to excel — which at that time were the high-end technical skills in the people world. Now, the millennials are completely up the curve. Organisations are having to catch up to cater to what they want from a needs stand point, because millennials are already far ahead of the curve and very adaptable and flexible,” Prashara said.
 
 Given the scale of RIL, the HR teams are leveraging synergies across platforms. So, while the hiring and on-boarding platform was copied by retail and Jio from what existed in the hydrocarbons business, the latter is now borrowing the learning and development platforms from retail and telecom businesses. Though numbers are not available for RIL, there has been a significant shift in the needle on gender diversity as well. At Jio, women form around 30% of the total strength. Jog said, “When you are in 6,000 talukas in India, traditionally women who did not migrate earlier do not have to do so now. The opportunity set has increased. That’s another reason why the intake is a little more, particularly of women engineers. Our presence in small towns changes the whole dynamic.”
 
 Like some of the global organisations that have shunned the bell curve, RIL is only using it as a guideline, not as a mandate. The company has also moved from a six-day work week to a five-day one. The management said that providing flexibility at work has not compromised on productivity. “You don’t need a structure to say it’s a five-day week or a six-day work week. People by choice do so,” said Jog.
 
 What drives productivity, said Prashara, is employee engagement. “If you are engaged, you will put your heart and soul into it,” he said. So when Jio was in building stage, people wanted to be part of the excitement. When they worked, it didn’t matter for how many hours in a day or days in a week. Jog said, “Same would have been the energy when Jamnagar refinery was being set up.”
 
 
