NEW DELHI: The Delhi high court on Wednesday prohibited the Delhi government from removing the chief nodal   appointed to supervise redevelopment of   area.

 
 A bench of justices S Muralidhar and IS Mehta made it clear that the current chief nodal officer (CNO) Renu Sharma will continue to oversee the project even if she no longer remains in the Public Works Department (PWD).
 
 HC’s direction came on a plea moved by the Delhi government seeking its permission to replace Sharma with another officer, Manoj Parida.
 
 The court noted that Sharma had in fact only joined as CNO last year in November and has since then held 16 meetings on the matter related to carrying out   directions on various aspects of Chandni Chowk redevelopment.
 
 “Her continuing in the role of CNO is essential to maintaining the momentum of implementation of the directions of this court from time to time. Although Ms Sharma has now been entrusted with additional charge as principal secretary (finance), this court sees no reason why she should not continue as CNO,” the bench noted.
 
 It added that if for some reason Sharma is divested of the portfolio of PWD, “she shall continue as the CNO.”
 
 HC had last year ordered that nodal officers appointed by it for each agency including north corporation and the Delhi government won’t be transferred without its nod. HC is monitoring several projects in Chandni Chowk area such as the Rs 445-crore multi-level parking project at Gandhi Maidan.
 
 It had earlier pulled up the north corporation for taking the work in a “casual” manner and said it was “totally frustrating” after it came to know that the process was stuck as the tenure of a standing committee, before which the bid to finalise the project has to be placed, expired in April and a new one was yet to be constituted. It asked why the next committee was not formed in time.
 
 The bench had said in case of any delay by the standing committee in finalising the bid, it will seek an explanation from the civic body’s commissioner and the mayor.
 
 Currently, the Gandhi Maidan parking, situated adjacent to the Chandni Chowk metro station, can accommodate 650 cars. As per the proposal, the new structure will have six levels, including three underground floors. One floor will be reserved for commercial activities. This will create additional parking space for more than 2,500 cars.
 
