KOTA: Kota police solving within hours the robbery of Rs 25 lakh from the cashier (Munim) of a transport and   firm that sent Kota city into a tizzy on Monday evening arrested the cashier and his younger brother on Tuesday and recovered the looted cash of Rs 25 lakhs from their resident.

 The loot incident proved to be a fake and conspired one by the employee of the firm himself along with his younger brother to get new house constructed and old one repaired.
 
 The unidentified two bike borne youths late on Monday evening after stacking their bike in front of the car at pistol point allegedly robbed near   circle under Anantpura police station area a bag containing Rs. 25 lakhs placed in the ducky from the cashier of a transport and Pan Masala firm identified as   alias Rahul who was going to hand over the amount to another partner. The victim firm owner   lodged a complaint in the matter in Anantpura police station last night following which, taking the loot incident serious, Kota city S.P. Anshuman Bhomia formed six police teams and initiated investigation into the matter.
 
 Disclosing the matter in a press conference here today, Kota city S.P. Anshuman Bhomia told the employee of the firm Rajendra Singh (24) alias Rahul along with his younger brother Narendra (21) conspired a fake story of loot while he was taking the amount in car’s dickey to hand it over to other partner of the firm last evening. When the police teams investigated the CCTV cameras on the route around Gebariya Bawadi circle to Rait circle, where the robbery had allegedly taken place and the local were inquired, no trace of the crime surfaced nor the victim cashier asked for help from by passers, he said. When the cashier was strictly interrogated, he admitted to have committed the crime along with his brother Narendra, the S.P. added. The cashier near Gebariya Bawdi circle handed over the bag containing cash of Rs. 25 lakhs to his brother and made a call to the partner whom he was going to hand over the cash narrating him fake story of loot. The accused cashier Rajendra alias Rahul, a native of Uniyara town of Tonk district had started working at transport and Pan Masala firm from last seven to eight months and he was not sound financially, he added. The cashier along with his brother conspired the plot to loot the huge cash so that they could get a new house constructed and old one repaired, he said.
 
 The cash of Rs 25 lakhs was recovered from their accommodation in Kota and further inquiry with the two accused is underway, the SP said. 
 
 
