Vaibhav,  , Sonam, Ravi Mariya are running for their lives... They come to a dead stop when they spot   standing still, looking at something... The situation is tense... and director   shouts, ‘Cut!’ This was the scene team   was shooting, aided wonderfully by a gloomy night sky, when we travelled to the forest of Samathuvapuram, where the shooting is going on. They were filming an important sequence on the night Chennai Times got an exclusive chance to spend the night with the team...

 “Katteri is an adventure, horror comedy, kids will surely enjoy this film,” says Deekay. Ever since they announced the film, there were so many changes when it came to the female lead. But finally, it was confirmed that Sonam Bajwa, Aathmika, Varalaxmi Sarathkumar and Manali Rathod will play the four leads. 
 
 “Why four heroines? Well, each character in the film has a solid role to play. Except for Sonam, no one else is paired opposite  . There is no duet or any stereotypical romantic sequence. Everyone has his or her character etched out. For instance, in the ‘panni moonji vaya’ scene in Yaamirukka Bayamey, Yogi Babu comes for just two scenes, but it created an impact. In the same manner, this one, too, has roles written for each actor,” explains Deekay. 
 
 Almost 40 per cent of the shoot is over. The team will shoot for a couple of weeks in Chennai and then go abroad to shoot the remaining portions. 
 
 I was initially sceptical as it was a 
 horror film, and I didn't want my third film to be of the same genre. But I am a fan of Yaamirukka Bayamey, and I thought of hearing the story. I was kicked. I play a psychiatrist. It is a very meaty role and I am happy to be part of the film - Aathmika
 
 I must thank Deekay for getting me on board for this film. This is a thriller comedy... there is an equal dose of both in the film. I play a con guy, who works under a don... more like comical goon, I must say! - Vaibhav
 
 
 I play Vaibhav’s wife. My character’s name is Shwetha, who’s a traditional girl. They get married and things change. Though I will also be seen in casuals and modern clothes, I have never looked this traditional before. It is good to be back in Tamil after a long gap - Sonam
 
 I am excited to work with Deekay again after YB. I play Gaja... it is an interesting role - Karunakaran
 
 
