NEW DELHI: Five-year-old   Kamti has lost his   seat in a Pitampura private school because his name in the   didn’t match that on the online form. Now, Delhi   ( ) has issued a   to the school, directing it to   the child   pending an inquiry. 

 Divyanshu’s name appeared in the first list of the directorate of education (DoE) last year for admission under the right to education’s EWS quota norms. But when Divyanshu’ father, Naresh Singh Kamti, went to PP International School in Pitampura to get the documents verified, he was turned away as in the birth certificate, the boy’s name was recorded as Sudhanshu. 
 
 DCPCR officials said the parents had changed his name and later produced a fresh birth certificate with the changed name, an advertisement in the newspaper — as per the procedure — and an affidavit on the change dated July 25, 2017 (a copy of it is with TOI). They said the parents had also corrected the discrepancy in the online entry to reflect the new name. The commission has said the school is “determined to not allow the child from attending it”. 
 
 The school, however, claimed that for any such change, “a proper legal process has to be followed to validate it. DCPCR is not taking cognisance of any such thing”. Possession of two birth certificates, it said, was “bad in law”.
 
 Moreover, Deepi Bector, its vice-principal, said it had got three names for the boy — one in the online form, another in the document and a third one on DoE’s list. The documents, she claimed, were from Bihar, and the parents had overshot the deadline to produce the correct ones. “We cannot give any benefit of doubt in such a case because we have to follow the DoE norms.” 
 
 However, citing the DoE rules, DCPCR said a declaration made by the parents about the child’s age was enough proof for admission. It added that the school also questioned the authenticity of the income certificate. According to it, the school has no right to make judgements about the veracity of a document, which should be duly done by the sub-divisional magistrate (SDM). The commission has asked the administration to write to the SDM about the school’s concerns. 
 
 Bector refused to discuss the matter further, calling it sub judice.
 
 
