HYDERABAD: A day after TOI published a story ‘Green channel for   convoy, agony times for accident victim’, director general of police M   on Thursday directed all commissioners and superintendents of police in the state to ensure medical emergency cases are provided right of way even during   movement.

 The DGP’s directive came following a tweet by information technology minister K Taraka Rama Rao in reaction to the story.
 
 KTR, in his reaction on Twitter earlier in the day, said: “I certainly hope it’s not true because that’s never been my way of working if it’s true, my most sincere apologies to the gentleman and I also request @TelanganaDGP to ensure that instructions are passed on to policemen so this is not repeated anywhere.”
 
 The road accident victim, Jeetender  , who suffered a leg injury, was, on Saturday, forced by a policeman to languish by the roadside instead of shifting him to a hospital until the minister’s convoy passed the Dammaiguda crossroads.
 
 In response to KTR’s message, DGP Mahendar Reddy tweeted: “@KTRTRS Sir, instructions have been given to all the CPs and SPs of the Districts to allow medical emergencies on priority despite VVIP/VIP movement.”
 
 Responding to KTR’s tweet, Surana, the road accident victim, posted: “Sorry sir it was not my intention to blame u it was the job of police to act properly and I hope in future this does not happen with others.”
 
 KTR’s tweet also elicited a huge response from followers. “Good too such a matured response. Yeah, mostly KTR doesn't obstruct the traffic and his convoy doesn't have the SIRENS which most Babus, local politicians and ministers use. Hope all ministers learn from KTR,”   tweeted.
 
 “A tweet does not help — Please personally review the amendment to procedures for Police — so that this does not happen again anywhere in Telangana,” said one Rajesh.
 
 Meanwhile, on Thursday, six days after the incident, two constables from Jawaharnagar police finally approached the victim and recorded his statement. However, the victim is yet to get a copy of the FIR.
 
 Jawaharnagar police are still making efforts to trace the vehicle involved in the hit and run. This incident has attracted widespread criticism as the policemen on duty neither helped Surana nor allowed his family members to shift him to the hospital till the minister’s convoy passed.
 
