CHENNAI: Ever heard of the ‘Pepper Queen’ of Karnataka, the 16th century ruler who traded pepper and fought off the Portuguese? Perhaps, or maybe not. Which is why   Vikram Sridhar is trying to bring the tale of the queen alive at a session in Chennai on Saturday.

 Inspired by a seminar on women’s empowerment last year, Sridhar scripted a storytelling session on the ‘Ranis of India’. And yes, there will be mention of Padmavati, but that’s because, says Sridhar, a fictitious Rani seems to have got more traction, thanks to a mega-budget movie and controversy than the ones who existed.
 
 “When one thinks of the queens of yore, the stories are invariably about their beauty and grace. Rani Lakshmi Bai, who fought valiantly against the British, is a rare example of someone who was different than that. Hardly anyone talks of the administrative or leadership skills of the queens. That’s what I want to highlight,” says Sridhar. So in march the likes of Chennabhairadevi or the Raina-Da-Pimenta ( ) as the Portuguese called her, who is supposed to have ruled for more than half a century, and showed statesmanship and bravery, but ultimately died a prisoner.
 
 But the queens of the past aren’t the only ones in his narrative. “Ranis aren’t just queens,” says Sridhar. “Every woman who leads from the front, every woman who has made a change in the world is a rani in their own right,” he says, which is why his stories weave in the ‘reigning’ queens of today as well, from BSP leader Mayawati to former PM Indira Gandhi. “And former TN chief minister J Jayalalithaa as well,” says Sridhar. “Yes, there were scandals, there was corruption. But you cannot forget the fact that she was a leader,” says Sridhar, adding that first generation entrepreneurs are also part of his stories.
 
 Among the   representing TN is Thillaiyadi Valliammai (1898-1914), the South African Tamil teen who worked with Mahatma Gandhi when she resisted the apartheid regime using non-violent methods. Though Valliammai had never been to India, her parents were from Nagappatinam.
 
 
