BHOPAL: Power doesn't flow from the barrel of gun as guntotting aides of   found out at the election of the Indian Kayaking and   (IKCA) held in   on Friday. 

 The Kushwaha panel, led by Bhopal's Prashant Kushwaha, defeated Bhadoriya panel and Kushwaha was also elected the secretary general.
 
 The Bhadoriya panel had been criticised for bringing in supporters who carried guns during the sports body elections. Bhadoriya failed to convince other associations.
 
 A total of 26 state associations caste two votes each. In the end, out of a total of 52 votes, 36 went to the Kushwaha panel, while Bhadoriya panel managed to get only 16 votes.
 
 No sooner the results were announced an upset   with his supporters left the election venue. Asked about allegations charged against him, Shailendra Singh Bhadoriya offered no comment.
 
 "We will support the newly-elected president," said a state association member from Delhi. "He is young and we all hope that he will take the association to another level," said another state association member who did not wish to be named.
 
 A couple of months ago, Bhadoriya was elected president of the   association. A senior IKCA official said that Bhadoriya had been trying hard to win support of associations to take on the Kushwaha panel for the post of president.
 
 Kushwaha said, "I am ready to work with anyone who is there to support kayaking and canoeing," said the new IKCA secretary general.
 
 At the venue, few supporters of Bhadoriya were spotted with guns in their hand. When asked why they brought guns they said they have come to support Bhadoriya. 
 
 "I am shocked to see people coming with guns. There is no war. It was just a democratic process to elect a new team for the national association," said Kushwaha.
 
 Meanwhile, the office-bearers elected were Syed Matloob Hashmi (president), Bipin Dash, Syed Matloob Hamshi (senior vice-presidents), Bipin dash, Jyotin Waikhom, MS Tomar, Padam Guleria, R Meiyappan (vice-presidents), Ch Benhur (treasurer), Anagha Bhusare E Warlikar, K jayabaln, N Vinil Reddy, Rupak Debroy, Vagaram Bishnoi (joint secretaries), Anagha Bhusare E Warlikar, Alka Joshi, Datta Patil, Deepak Singh, Joginder Lamba, Mahesh Pipalkar, M Sumathi and   (executive members).
 
 
