PATNA: The state   on Tuesday sanctioned Rs105.95 crore for development of new Patna police lines buildings at  .

 As per the state police headquarters proposal, five blocks of six-storey buildings, including an administrative block, a residential block, a barrack for constables, common area building and a separate space for dining, mess and kitchen are to be developed under the project.
 
 Sources said more than 1,700 police personnel, including women, live at the Lodipur police lines, but the buildings are in pathetic conditions and dangerous to live in. Some police personnel have also made illegal constructions and cattle sheds on its premises.
 
 The cabinet also cleared the master plan for construction of ultra-modern multistorey residential and non-residential buildings at  . The master plan envisages residential buildings for judicial officers and administrative officers at 14.5 acres and 13.16 acres of land, respectively, by razing the existing dilapidated government quarters. The existing quarters were constructed in 1920s.
 
 “The residential buildings for officials are proposed over 13.16 acre and that for staff (Grade III and IV) on 23.99 acre land. The master plan also envisages non-residential buildings for several offices of central and state governments such as Information Commission, Lokayukta, Human Rights Commission and   Directorate among others,” cabinet secretariat department's special secretary   told reporters.
 
 Pandey said apart from offices of central and state governments, the new urban centre will also have hospital, hotel, business centre, IT centre, playground, parks, parking and other facilities.
 
 The government also released Rs186.67 crore for construction of 81 school buildings and completion of school buildings under construction for setting up ‘Model School’ under central scheme in the years 2009-10 and 2010-11.
 
 As part of the government’s policy to have a secondary school in every panchayat, the cabinet also approved the proposal to upgrade an upgraded middle school to upgraded higher secondary school (Plus 2), if it has 0.75 acre land against earlier requirement of 1 to 1.5 acre for the purpose, Pandey said.
 
 Total 10 proposals were approved in the cabinet meeting.
 
 
