SHIMLA: The discrimination against dalit students of Government High School, Cheshtha during “Pariksha Pe Charcha” programme of Prime Minister   in   district of   is the latest in a string of such cases. Dalit children who were part of a group of students taken to a faculty member’s residence were asked to sit outdoors while upper caste children were hosted inside the house. 

 This is in stark contrast with the way political parties treat dalits ahead of elections. During assembly elections last year, BJP launched “dalit swabhiman” conferences. Now, ahead of Parliamentary elections next year, the Congress will organise “dalit sammelans” in each parliamentary seat. 
 
 Himachal Pradesh has a total of 68 assembly constituencies, of which 17 have been reserved for scheduled caste candidates. Dalits comprise 25.02% of the total population. 
 
 During a meeting of the Congress’s schedule caste department in Shimla on February 16, a decision was taken to organise dalit conferences in all four parliamentary seats of Shimla, Mandi, Kangra and Hamirpur to raise the issue of atrocities against scheduled castes in BJP-ruled states.
 
 Even though dalits hold dominance in 17 assembly constituencies out of 68, they are subjected to discrimination at every sphere. In Himachal Pradesh, social discrimination starts at school, especially in the distribution of mid-day meals where upper caste students do not sit with dalit students.
 
 After receiving a number of complaints related to discrimination against dalit students during serving of mid-day meal, the previous Congress government headed by Virbhadra Singh issued instructions that the mid-day meal be served according to students’ roll numbers. But the orders have not been implemented in letter and spirit.
 
 “Lack of willpower on the part of the state government has led to discrimination against dalit students in schools. The incident of Government High School, Cheshtha is an example. Only strict implementation of provisions under SC/ST Atrocities Act can end this social discrimination,” said Professor K S Dhir, president, People's Campaign for Socio-Economic Equality.
 
 In a letter written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Shimla-based social activitist Ravi Kumar Dalit demanded strict action against schoolteachers involved in discrimination against dalit students. 
 
 In the letter, he raised the issue of discrimination against students at Government High School, Cheshtha during the “Pariksha Pe Charcha” programme and also raised the issue of discrimination in serving of mid-day meals.
 
 
