A regular visitor to the city, actor   ushered in the new year in Lucknow while shooting for his upcoming movie 'Lakeerein...The Untold Story'. The actor has been shooting for the past few days at a banquet hall on   road. "Last year, I was evicted from the 'Bigg Boss' house on new year, this year I was shooting in Lucknow for my movie on the day. So both these New Year eves have been, in a way, memorable for me. I couldn't enjoy much last year as I was completely lost after being evicted from Bigg Boss. I didn't know which day it was and what was the time. It took me a while to get back to normal," says Gaurav, adding, "I have been really busy for the past one and a half months, shooting for one show after the other."
Gaurav adds, "I haven't really had much time for myself but it's been exciting. Even on Saturday, I packed up at around 1am and came back to the hotel. And the same schedule was followed for the New Year’s eve. We came back late at night from the shoot and I just wanted to be in my room and relax as we had an early start today. So mere new year ki shuruaat kaam se hui."
 Ask Gaurav about the character in the film for which he is shooting for in Lucknow, and he says, "I can't reveal much about the film, but it is a social statement and is not a regular pot boiler, masala film.I play a professor from Lucknow who is a poet and is very famous in the city. When I was offered this film I wanted to be a part of this message that the film conveys. I have been to Lucknow so many times that I didn’t have to do much research work to play a Lucknowite. It all came naturally to me as I now know a lot about the city and its people. Mera sach mein Lucknow se kuchh rishta hai aur yeh main khali interview mein kehne ke liye nahi bol raha hoon. Every time I get a call for a project saying you have to shoot in Lucknow, there is a sense of happiness inside me. There is an optimism in me that the project is for sure going to be a success, going by the history I have had with projects shot here. In fact, when we had launched ' ' and 'Gulmohar Grand', I had come to Lucknow to promote both the shows. My play 'Foreplay' was also staged here and we got an awesome response from the people. I feel very much at home in Lucknow and I have made a few good friends here. But our schedule has been so hectic that I am still to catch up with them." The film, has a story based in Lucknow and is directed by   and written by another localite,   of 'Dabangg' fame.
 
  
  Gaurav Chopra at Gomti Nagar, Lucknow (BCCL/ Aditya Yadav) 
 
 So is Gaurav enjoying the extreme winters in Lucknow? "Yes it is very cold here and the worst part is that while everyone around me, while shooting, is wearing layers of woollens, I have to wear a linen ka kurta pyjama. Mujhe apne aas pass waale logon ko dekh ke thand lagti hai. However, I love winters as one gets to dress up so stylishly in this weather. It’s too romantic, and Lucknow winters more so."
 Gaurav, who has in the past shot for the show 'Savdhaan India' and the movie 'Rangdari' in the city, says that different kind of acting projects have been keeping him busy for the past two months. "Thankfully, all the projects that I have been doing all this while, have been very different from each other. Usually the trend in the industry is that people offer you stuff going by what was the last thing you did. In these past two months, all I have been doing is a variety of roles back to back -- from trying my hands at comedy, to playing an extremely sensuous and romantic character for the web series that I ma acting in. I am trying in my humble capacity to look and act differently in all these roles. So, itna exciting work karne ko mila hai idhar that seriously, I didn't even think about partying on New Year’s eve," says Gaurav who will be here in the city for another 15 days.
 — Akash.Wadhwa@timesgroup.com
 
 
