CHENNAI: A special police team is looking for four men who allegedly kidnapped a financier and his son-inlaw from Vadapalani on Thursday before freeing them on the payment of Rs 33 lakh and 28 sovereigns of gold jewellery worth Rs 6.5 lakh after first demanding Rs 1 crore as ransom. After being dumped blindfolded at a desolate spot in Tambaram, C Mohan, 49, and Manickam returned home before lodging a police complaint on Friday.

 
  
 
 Mohan, who runs a finance company along with five partners at Pillyar Koil Street in Vadapalani, was in his office on April 23 when a man identified as Saravana Kumar arrived. Claiming he was an agent who helped arrange loans for businessmen, Kumar said he wanted Rs 20 lakh for the owners of a medical equipment manufacturing company on OMR who were keen on expanding their business. Mohan agreed but said he would want to vist the firm. After more than a month, Kumar said they could make the inspection on Thursday.
 
 As Mohan and Manickam were getting into Mohan’s car, Kumar arrived and said he would take them in his car and drop them back. They set off, but Kumar drove towards Tambaram and told his two passengers that OMR was choked with traffic and that he would take them along a less congested route. The two believed him and became busy with their phones. As the car reached Mappedu near Selaiyur, three other men, believed to be accomplices of Kumar, stood waiting beside another car, Mohan said in his complaint.
 
 Mohan and Manickam were bundled into the new car and as it sped towards Tambaram, the four brandishing knives attacked them and demanded Rs 1 crore. A terrified Mohan told them he did not have such a huge sum. After a ‘deal’ was struck, the financier called his wife and asked her to send Rs 33 lakh with help of one of his office assistants to the spot near Koyambedu identified by the gang.
 
 Mohan’s wife promptly informed his brother who arranged for the money and himself handed over the agreed sum to a man waiting at the said spot. The gang members then snatched the 28 sovereigns of gold jewellery that Mohan and his son-in-law were wearing before blindfolding them and abandoning them at a lonely spot near Tambaram.
 
 After managing to untie their blindfolds and getting a bearing on their surroundings, the two men hailed an autorickshaw and reached home. The next day, they approached the Vadapalani police. A special team has been formed to trace the suspects.
 
