MUMBAI: Owning a   in India is no longer a privilege of the rich and famous. The annual auction for horses, conducted by the  , returns to   after a gap of 20 years and presents an opportunity for those who are less affluent to enjoy the thrills of owning a race horse. The auction to be held on next Monday and Tuesday will see 114 horses up for grabs.

 
 To make the sport’s presence felt beyond the elite class,   allows a group of individuals to buy horses by forming a owners’ syndicate of maximum 10 members. In the auctions held at Pune in 2015, an owner picked up a   for just ₹37,000! This means that if there is a syndicate of 10 owners, each one will have to shell out just ₹ 3,700! Now, isn’t that tempting?
 
 There is a rider though. Each buyer needs to be approved by the RWITC. Interested buyers must furnish their income tax returns for the last three years showing a minimum annual income of ₹12 lakh to the concerned authorities.
 
 Once a horse is bought, it needs to be given to a trainer for training, grooming and feeding. The average expenditure per month for this amounts to ₹20,000 excluding any medical expenses. These expenses become affordable if there is a syndicate of 10 owners.
 
 The parading of the horses from various stud farms has already begun both in the morning (9 to 11.30 am) and evening (4.30 to 7 pm). Among the 114 horses available to buyers, 18 are from the Blue Section in the auction catalogue. These horses are from those parents who have produced progenies with creditable performances in prestigious races in the past. To select a good horse, apart from impressive pedigree, the other important factor is conformation (body structure).
 
 A catalogue containing the pedigree and names of the various horses and stud farms which are entered for auction can be bought from the club at a nominal price. This catalogue enables buyers to study and make choices in the auction. In the auction each horse is given a lot number and is paraded in the ring when its number is called out. The auctioneer then begins the proceedings with only approved owners allowed to bid.
 
 
