NEW DELHI:   in the city in  , the latest on Thursday, indicates perhaps that a cell   to   for   is Delhi Police’s  . While there were around 16 cases of the type reported in 2017, the average was higher in the preceding three years, with 23, 36 and 38 cases in 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively.

 Serving and retired investigators pointed out to TOI that the Crime Branch did have an anti-kidnapping   till a few years ago, but it was disbanded for want of work. “The anti-kidnapping cell was located at the Crime Branch’s Chanakyapuri office. It moved to Rohini when the Chanakyapuri branch was rejigged into the Inter-State Cell,” informed a senior cop. “It lay dormant in Rohini and was replaced later by the anti-human traffic unit created to cover a broader area.”
 
 A former investigator said that contrary to the perception that all units should be pressed into service to crack big cases, probing a kidnapping case required a single unit to work in a strategic manner. “Involving more than one unit is not viable in such cases as this endangers the abductee’s life,” he explained. “If the local police station is probing the case, it will anyway need the assistance of specialised units in terms of manpower and technical expertise.”
 
 A few months ago, a city doctor travelling in an Ola cab was abducted by UP-based criminals. The kidnappers were believed to be professionals, and the case was handled by the local police station. Facing intense pressure, the abductors later fled, leaving the doctor unharmed. However, when a businessman’s son was kidnapped on January 1, a special team of Crime Branch handled the case because police believed professionals were not involved and the chances of the criminals panicking and harming the victim were high. The cops managed to rescue the victim and arrest the suspects.
 
  
  
 
 A former investigator revealed how a special team had been formed in his time to pursue cases related to kidnapping for ransom. “The unit comprised constables and head constables from different units, but functioned as one cell. This prevented chances of inter-unit rivalry while boosting the scope of investigation,” he said.
 
 Thursday’s kidnappers are most likely professionals who disappear with the victim — term ‘pakad’ by such gangs — for a few days before starting ransom negotiations. In September 2016, a doctor had been abducted in south-east Delhi for a ransom of Rs 25 crore. The victim was constantly moved to places like Shahjahanpur, Farukkhabad and Badayun in UP, even restrained in a ditch and given only a pipe to breathe through.Thursday’s case suggests a similar modus operandi, sources said.
 
 
