NEW DELHI: There is more than one narrative to the legacy of the Koregaon Bhima battle as while Dalit   fought as part of the British force, another   community —Matangs—were represented in the Peshwa army in the politicised clash of arms that took place in 1818, said Abhinav Prakash, an assistant professor in Delhi University.

 
 Prakash, a Dalit scholar, spoke of what he said were distortions and exaggerations in the accounts of the Koregaon Bhima war in the context of claims that the battle signified a caste assertion by Mahars against Brahminical oppression.
 
 These were attempts to push a Dalit-Brahmin divide, said Prakash who spoke at a function organised by   think tank S P Mukherjee Research Foundation on Saturday.
 
 An agenda-driven account was being peddled, as according to Prakash, the celebrations of Koregaon Bhima were never a British commemoration, but have been projected as a recognition of Dalit valour and courage. “The Mahars fighting for the British against the Peshwas as a fight against caste oppression is a fallacy…another Dalit community, the Matangs, also fought, but in the Peshwa army. So whose narrative is the Dalit narrative?” asked Prakash, questioning the depiction of the battle as a Dalit versus upper caste affair.
 
 “There’s a complete absence of Dalit and tribal history from mainstream history being taught today. The fact is that caste history, though anathema to the right-wing, needs to be highlighted and taught to the people,” said Prakash, adding that a failure to do so may well result in the narratives being appropriated by those who wanted to play on caste divides.
 
 “We can’t deny the reality of caste,” he said, adding that history couldn’t be viewed through rigid orthodoxies. Stating that some of these claims are right-wing, Prakash, who teaches at Sri Ram College of Commerce, argued that they did not represent “real right-wing thinkers” but champions of orthodoxy.
 
 Prakash, who was associated with ABVP in his JNU days, describes himself as a right-wing Ambedkarite and has been vocal about appropriation of the Dalit discourse by non-Dalits.
 
