MUMBAI: Almost a decade ago, the then joint municipal commissioner V Radha tried to introduce a novel system in the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) to reduce commuting time for employees.

 The idea was to post civic staff in wards located on the same railway routes on which their residences were, although not exactly in the same area. For instance, an employee living in   would get a posting in Andheri or Dadar which falls on the same   line, but not in   or Byculla. This was to help do away with the need to change trains or switch modes of transport, and thus ensure ease of travel.
 
 Though the plan was never formally adopted as a policy, over the past two years the BMC has tried to follow the principle, wherever feasible, in postings. The impact is limited but that Mumbai’s biggest employer—its civic corporation—has experimented with such a plan is illustrative of the fact that even large government bodies are alive to the pressures of travel and the impact it has on their workforce.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 A civic official said posting employees close to their residences is possible only in case of administrative staff who have no field duties, and that too for only around 10% of them. A majority of BMC offices are in the island city and there are around 10,000 transfers every year. “Over the years, requests for a posting close to the residence have been increasing, specially from women employees. Wherever possible, we ensure it is done,” said the official.
 
 While BMC is the largest employer in the city (1.03 lakh employees are on its rolls), the timings of field staff vary. For instance, the solid waste management department’s reporting time is 6.30am, for water supply it’s 7am, ward officials report at 8am, nurses at 7am, ward boys at 6.30am and so on. Which explains the knotty logistics of BMC’s manning exercise.
 
 Municipal Commissioner   said BMC employees are dispersed across Mumbai and work practically in every lane in the city. “There is the conservancy staff, hospital staff, etc. Many of them live in slums close to the place of work or in BMC quarters,” he said, underscoring the constraints it works under.
 
  or the state secretariat, on the other hand, has a much smaller complement—around 7,500 employees—and therefore greater latitude. On December 31, 2015, the state passed an order allowing staff the flexibility of coming up to one hour late to work, provided they compensate for it by logging an equivalent period in office as extra time during the day. Reporting time was extended from 9.45am to 10.45am.
 
 Staff are clearly relieved by the move. Subhash Ingle, undersecretary (establishment), general administration department, told TOI, “I leave home at the same time even today, but now there is no compulsion to get into the 8.30am train at any cost. I can take a later train and I am still not late. The stress of losing a half-day casual leave for every three late marks is gone.
 
 The provision, however, does not apply to Class IV employees (peons) who have to be present from 9.30am to 6.15pm.
 
 Two years ago, a proposal was mooted to allow staff who arrive early to also leave early rather than insist that they stay till 5.30pm. “A number of employees come early but they still cannot leave till 5.30 pm. If they are allowed to leave even 15 minutes early, it would take off that much from a train,” said an official.
 
 In the long term, Mantralaya old-timers say, the solution lies in shifting government offices closer to the distant suburbs extending all the way to Virar and Dombivli. Since majority of staff are travelling up from these stretches, they feel the move would help disperse crowds and decongest the suburban train network. “Every day, it is a herculean task to get into the trains during peak hours. Even women make this dangerous journey daily. The government can see there is population explosion in these areas, why not shift departments there?” said an employee, on condition of anonymity.
 
