Trichy: Taking a dig at successive governments in the state for evolving freebie schemes, lieutenant governor of Puducherry Kiran Bedi said that this was creating a culture of dependence among people to an extent that they have started to expect something in return for just voting.

 Public money is wasted on freebies but these schemes are reaching people who does not need them, Bedi said in her maiden visit to Trichy.
 
 She said that freebies must go to those it is meant and that too in a manner that they become self-reliant over a period of time, so that a stage comes where nobody is below the poverty line.
 
 “There is need to move towards upgrading skills, but though freebies we have been creating a culture of dependence rather than self-reliance,” said the former IPS officer.
 
 “I am for self-reliance, but meeting the challenges of the day too is important as people should not go hungry or unskilled. At the moment, freebies are creating a habit that they are expecting something in return even to vote,” said Kiran Bedi.
 
 Asked if she has given the nod for Pongal gift distribution for people in Puducherry, she said everything was within the budget and will go only to the needy.
 
 “We are revising the whole system by conducting a re-audit of the list of below poverty line (BPL) beneficiaries. Also, if someone from the above poverty category is found to be in the BPL list, we will inquire to check whether it’s a genuine case,” she said.
 
 Asked on the frequent inspections carried out by Tamil Nadu governor Banwarilal Purohit which has raised several eyebrows, the lieutenant governor said that public officers should be proactive and not adopt an armchair working style.
 
 Delivering the Rajaji Memorial endowment lecture at the National College, she said the education system is losing out on developing personal skills among students and is leading to a crisis in society.
 
 Giving the example of Satyam scam, she said that the founder of the company had professional skills but lack of personal skills that put him and hundreds of employees and their families to hardship.
 
 Most of the educational institutions are focusing on honing professional skills for employability. “Indian youth needs to pass a probity test otherwise we would squander all our resources,” said Bedi, adding that there is need to invest in the future generation to the right directions.
 
 
