THIRUVANANTHAPURAM/KOZHIKODE: Though   has created a scare in Kozhikode and surrounding areas, there is also some good news. The condition of two patients – who are being treated for confirmed Nipah virus infection – has improved considerably.

 Briefing reporters on Friday, director of health services Dr RL   said the lab reports of patients – who are at Kozhikode MCH – are negative ‘as of now.’ “But they are still under observation at hospital,” she said, adding they were given antiviral medicine Ribavirin. Six more persons were admitted to the hospital with NiV symptoms on Friday, taking the total to 17, Dr Sarita said.
 
 At the same time, state government has issued an alert on the possibility of a second phase of Nipah virus infection in state. In the first phase, the spread of virus could be contained. However, people who had mingled with NiV-infected patients should be more cautious till the end of its incubation period, said health minister KK  .
 
 “Cases reported first were contracted from the primary source. Those who have mingled with these people in phase-I remain high-risk groups now. Hence, if anyone from this group test positive for Nipah, it would be considered the second phase of virus attack,” said Dr A Althaf, associate professor (community medicine), MCH, Thiruvananthapuram.
 
 The health department has issued an alert to district health administration to screen such people and that they should avoid public events. It added that those who are developing symptoms of the disease should be rushed to a hospital.
 
 These ne groups should be subjected to repeated testes to find whether the virus has been transmitted. They must immediately report to the control room functioning in Kozhikode. An expert   team will be working in Kozhikode until the virus is eradicated, said the minister.
 
 Meanwhile, a police aid post has been set up at the medical college to avoid untoward incidents. The father of Risan had fled the hospital after hearing the news of his son’s death. The aid post was set up to prevent similar incidents.
 
 Health department has received test results of the seven samples it sent and all were reported to be negative. Of the 193 samples sent for testing, 18 have tested positive, DHS said.
 
 Two more helpline numbers (0495 2380087 and 2380085) have been introduced to address public fears and persons named in the contact list. Authorities have further expanded the contact list and there are 1,949 persons on the list regularly monitored by health workers.
 
 The medicine for Nipah has arrived in Delhi. “ICMR has suggested that the service of an expert can be availed for mixing and administering the human monoclonal antibody. A decision will be taken after discussions,” Dr Saritha said.
 
 Meanwhile, HC has decided to avoid trials in all courts in Kozhikode where there is a chance of people thronging court premises till June 6. But, offices attached to the courts will be functioning.
 
 Meanwhile,   group has sent personal protection equipment worth Rs 1.75 crore to health workers taking care of patients. Dr  , MD of VPS healthcare, will hand over the first batch of equipment to Shailaja on Saturday.
 
