SRINAGAR: Jammu & Kashmir deputy chief minister and senior BJP leader Nirmal Singh on Thursday accused the crime branch of harassing innocent people over the investigation in the   gang-rape and murder case. Singh also said that the party had asked for explanations from two BJP ministers who allegedly gave inflammatory speeches.

 
 Two senior BJP ministers — Lal Singh and Prakash Chander Ganga — while addressing a rally in Kathua on March 4, organised by Hindu Ekta Manch, a fringe right-wing outfit protesting against the arrest of a Hindu man accused in the gruesome rape and murder of an 8-year-old girl, had asked the police not to make any further arrest of the accused. They had even called the crime branch pro- be, which is being monitored by the high court, “jungle raj”. They had also demanded a CBI inquiry into the incident. “We called for an explanation from state forest minister Lal Singh and industries and commerce minister   about their reported inflammatory speeches, but both denied having made such speeches against a particular community,” Nirmal Singh said.
 
 The video recordings of the speech aired on TV channels, however, clearly showed that the two ministers and MLA Kauthua Rajiv Jasrotia had tried to incite violence against the Bakarwal community and also tried to justify the rape and murder of eight-year-old Asifa. The video of their speeches inciting the audience has gone viral.
 
 In 2016, Lal Singh, a   leader, had threatened a delegation of Gujjars with “have you forgotten 1947?”, a reference to the massacre of Muslims in Jammu in 1947.
 
 The deputy CM accused the crime branch of harassing innocent people. “The investigation should not harass the innocent and the perpetuators of the crime must be dealt with as per the provisions of law,” he said. He, however, claimed that the party’s state unit would follow the BJP leadership’s suggestions. 
 
 The opposition — Congress and National Conference — slammed the ruling PDP-BJP coalition for communally polarising the state over Asifa’s rape and murder. 
 
 Former CM Omar Abdullah tweeted, “Dear PDP, the first ‘pro-rapist’ rally was taken out by two of Mehbooba Mufti’s ministers & they continue to serve at the pleasure of the CM in her cabinet.” 
 
 
