LUCKNOW: Chief minister   has directed senior officers of all districts to maintain law and order and ensure peace and harmony during Holi celebrations and specifically pointed out that utmost care should be taken that no one vitiates atmosphere since the   on Friday this year.

 “If required, get the religious places covered so that colour is not thrown on them and there is no controversy,” CM Yogi told officials during a videoconferencing. He also advised the officials to talk to the Imams of mosques to see if the timings of Friday afternoon prayers can be shifted, if possible, to avoid possibility of any confrontation. Yogi directed senior police and administrative officials to hold dialogue with community leaders, seniors and peace committees to resolve any differences through amicable solution and ensure that there is no confrontation with Holi revellers.
 
 Anyone found disturbing peace and harmony should be dealt with an iron hand, said Yogi.
 
 The CM issued the directives during a law and order meeting through video conferencing from his residence. Senior police officials including  , IG, DIG and district police chiefs as well as district magistrates and commissioners attended the meeting.
 
 
 
 
 Yogi directed officials not to issue any directive on   timings and suggested holding discussion with seniors on the issue. He ordered officials to ensure that DJ is not played on roads and Holi processions should not be carried out on any new route.
 
 Yogi said that if there is any trouble in a district, it would be treated as laxity of the concerned senior officials. The CM also expressed his annoyance on corruption complaints over granting permission for use of loudspeaker. He said complaints of harassment have been received and warned of strict action against officials if more complaints surface.
 
 Local intelligence unit inspector in Faizabad, BM Tiwari, told TOI, “We will recommend covering of the central mosque in   of Faizabad where colour is played most.”
 
 When asked, Maulana Meraj, a cleric in Faizabad, said that there is no problem in shifting Juma prayer timing if it helps keep communal harmony intact.
 
