TIRUNELVELI: Thousands of students from across the state would take part in a mass protest organised by the   (SFI) in Chennai on Tuesday, to condemn the exorbitant bus fare hike. All-India vice-president of  , P   told reporters here on Friday, after holding a consultative meeting with cadres.

 He also said that they would also intensify the statewide protests in the coming week. “Students will boycott classes, lay siege to buses and block roads to show their protest,” he said. Condemning cases registered against SFI leaders and assault on them for protesting the bus fare hike, Uchimakali said that police should withdraw all those cases registered against them.
 
 “The government should also end its out of the way efforts by threatening students through their parents and educational institutions to end the protests, we are organising in a democratic way. It is asking educational institutions to dismiss protesting students and lodge complaints against the SFI leaders for organising the protests,” he alleged and added that 16 SFI representatives are in jail.
 
 Uchimakali also appealed to the DMK and other opposition parties to strongly object to the fare hike and not to stop with merely issuing statements. “The government should reduce the fares if they want to stay in power. Else a pro-jallikattu like protest would be organised,” he added.
 
 Stating that world over public transport has been operated by governments for the benefit of people, he said that the recent escalation is badly affecting students. 
 
 According to him, the bus pass system in   is benefiting only a small section of the student population. He said that students studying in aided colleges, law, polytechnic,   and engineering courses cannot avail the full benefit of bus passes. “Even those with bus passes in rural areas don’t have bus services to their locality. Students with pass are being looked low and humiliated and asked to stand are common across the state,” he claimed.
 
 He said that the government should follow the example set by  , where there is no bus pass system. Students in uniform and holding an identity card can travel in any government or private bus for just Rs 1, he claimed.
 
 
