SURAT: The bitter stand-off between local residents of   and diamond traders operating in this market only looks to be worsening.

 Tempers have remained frayed on both sides since Sunday when residents, mostly women, in Balli Sheri, violently shoved down the motorcycles parked right outside their houses.   used knives to tear off the seat covers of many motorcycles and deflated tyres of some.   is a narrow lane in Mahidharpura market. On Tuesday, too, there was heated altercation between the residents and those parking their vehicles, triggering some tension in the area. Some traders also called the police, but they refused to intervene saying the vehicles cannot be parked in such a way that they block the entry to the houses. 
 
 Thousands of diamond brokers, unit owners and employees who come daily in around 6,000 motorcycles and cars to Mahidharpura diamond market, located in the Walled City area, park vehicles in adjoining narrow lanes due to insufficient parking space in their own premises. At least, 15,000 people mostly traders, their employees and buyers visit this market daily. Several importers and exporters of diamonds and manufacturing unit owners have their offices in this area.
 
 The market area has commercial buildings along with residential localities where people have been living since generations. 
 
 “The vehicles are parked at 10 am and they remain there until 8 pm. There is not enough space left for an ambulance, a fire brigade vehicle or a hearse if any of them were to come. The situation has turned so serious that residents are unable to come out of their houses,” a local resident and former   councillor Manoj Lotwala said.   has developed a multilevel parking space for 2,500 motorcycles, which is grossly inadequate, considering the sheer number of vehicles coming to the market.
 
 “Residents pushed down the parked motorcycles and tore their seats. If they live here, then we work here. We should be allowed to park our vehicles. We understand their problem, but they should understand ours too,” a diamond broker   said.
 
 While the problem of parking is a nagging one across Mahidharpura, there are some lanes were people have modified their house structures and provide paid parking to those coming here daily. 
  
  
 
