NEW DELHI: Next month,   is likely to make its third foray in Haryana after Gururgram and Faridabad. The work on the almost 12-km corridor linking Bahadurgarh with the Delhi Metro network is complete, and the Delhi Metro Rail Corporation ( ) now just needs the go-ahead from the   (CMRS) to open the section to public.

 The Mundka-Bahadurgarh metro corridor is an extension of the existing Inderlok-Mundka Corridor (Line-5) of the Delhi Metro. The corridor will run along NH-10 (Rohtak Road) on an elevated viaduct.
 
 “The trial runs are in progress on the   since December last year. The civil and other ancillary works on the entire stretch are almost complete and finishing works are in final stages at some of the stations,” a DMRC spokesperson said. “The necessary documentation for sending the application for the inspection by CMRS is being done now and some other mandatory prior approvals are being taken. After the completion of all these formalities, the application for inspection by CMRS will be sent,” he said.
 
 There are total seven stations on the stretch, out of which four are in Delhi — Mundka Industrial Area (MIE), Ghevra, Tikri Kalan and Tikri Border. The other three are in neighbouring Haryana — Modern Industrial Estate, Bus Stand and City Park.
 
 Though the construction work on the corridor is mostly complete, there is a very important link missing that would connect the viaduct and the train depot. The track between the corridor and the depot is yet to be constructed due to land issues.
 
 “The issue pertaining to unavailability of land near the MIE station in Haryana has not yet been resolved. This land is essential for regular operations as it provides access to the depot located there,” he said.
 
 DMRC had acquired the required land but the high court squashed that land acquisition. So, at present there is no connection between the depot and the viaduct. Even though the depot, the viaduct and the stations are ready, the connectivity with depot is not present.
 
 Sources said that DMRC plans to use the existing depot of the Inderlok-Mundka corridor for maintenance work of the trains that will run on the Mundka-Bahadurgarh section. The trains are expected to be parked on the tracks during night till the connectivity to depot issue is resolved, sources said.
 
 The corridor would also be the biggest straight-line stretch in the history of Delhi Metro without any turn and twist from Mundka to Bahadurgarh.
 
 
