LUDHIANA: Ludhiana (Rural) Police has arrested a relative of gangster Prema Lahoriya, who was killed recently in an encounter with police along with another gangster Vicky Gounder, for posting a Facebook book to avenge the killings. Police also arrested two others for posting a similar post on a social media.

 The arrested accused have been identified as   of Zira,   of Badala and Gurpeet Singh of Talwandi Khurd.
 
 Inspector General (IG) of police, Jalandhar zone, Arpit Shukla said that after Gounder’s death, the arrested accused had posted a message on Facebook, saying “Baki tuhanu kiha ke Jekar tusi ik maroge, ta Assi tuhade do marage, te hun assi tuhade 6 marage. takrhe ke riho, tuhanu wi dassage medal puwan walyo, kise da putter kiwe marida badla jaruur lawage (Be warned that if you kill one, we will kill two of your people and now we will kill six. Beware, we will show you how to avenge the death of someone’s son). He added that after Gounder’s death they were trying to generate a sympathy wave through social media and posted various posts to avenge the gangster’s killings.
 
  
  
 
 Shukla said Gurpeet disclosed that after passing Class X he worked for four years with his father in a biowaste management company and afterwards went to Dubai. It was there that he came in contact with Parminder Singh, alias Tiger of Chohla Sahib, Tarn Taran, who was facing various criminal cases, and further developed contact with other gangsters of the state. He said Gurpreet started helping these gangsters financially through Western Union, adding that while in Dubai he also met Neeta Deol, another gangster. Shukla said it was through him that Gurpreet came in contact with Gurpreet Sekhon and Vicky Gounder and after his return from Dubai, he went to meet various gangsters in jails and helped them financially.
 
 The IG further said the accused had established close relations with Neeta, Sekhon, Vicky and Tiger, adding that he used to look after their hideouts and handled Shera Khuban group on social media, thereby creating panic among people to collect money.
 
 Shukla said they also indulged in snatchings and drug trade and now after Gounder’s death they posted a highly objectionable and threatening post in social media using pseudo ID of ‘sarpanch’. Police said that after the death of Gounder in an encounter, a post figured in social media wherein gangsters openly threatened to kill four to avenge the duo’s killing. Officials added that Ludhiana (Rural) Police had formed a special team to identify some persons active on social media masquerading as gangsters.
 
 Officials said that a case under sections 379 (theft), 411 (dishonestly receiving stolen property), 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC and of IT Act, NDPS Act and Arms Act had been registered at Sadar Police station in Jagraon against Gurpreet, Karajpal and Gurjit. The said the accused were arrested at a check post near Galib Kalan, when they reached there in an Innova (registration number PB-13-1717). “Police seized 500g heroin, six pistols after the interrogation of Karajpal, who is close relative of  ,” an official said.
 
