After the Kamala Mill fire tragedy civic chief Ajoy Mehta had shifted the ward officer and suspended four “powerful”   officials for dereliction of duty. Mehta later disclosed that a leading politician spoke to him “rudely” on telephone, saying, it was wrong to suspend a particular official and that his suspension should be revoked. Mehta is now under pressure to name the politician. 

 Former chief minister Ashok Chavan said Mehta should name the politician. Mumbai   chief Sanjay Nirupam too endorsed the demand. It was initially believed that Nirupam may have approached Mehta to protect the suspended official. Now   chief Uddhav Thackeray has demanded that Mehta must take all possible steps for razing illegal structures. As Mehta is conducting an inquiry into the Kamala Mill blaze, it may not seem appropriate for him to reveal the politician’s name. The suspended official appears to be more powerful than Mehta.
 
 
 
 
 Former director general of police Kaushal Pathak has been jolted by the arrest of his son, Yug, for culpable homicide following the death of 14 people in the fire that broke out in Mojo’s Bistro. Yug is one of the partners of Mojo’s Bistro. In his career of over 34 years, Pathak was never involved in any controversy. When he was in Nagpur, chief minister Devendra Fadnavis’s hometown, there was criticism over the law and order situation. He was shifted from Nagpur after his tenure was over and given the plum post of Pune police chief. On the last day before he retired, Pathak got the DGP-rank. In corridors of power, it is believed that Yug cannot escape his responsibility since he was fully aware of the illegal construction in his restaurant. In the past, BMC served several notices for demolition, but Yug “managed” corrupt BMC officials and action was deferred. 
 
 
 
 
  Before the winter session, public works department minister Chandrakant Patil had declared that all state highways and key district roads will be pothole-free before December 15. But ruling party and opposition MLAs pointed out that the initiative had failed to take off due to laxity. Activists in Sangli district later named the potholes after Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari and Patil. The state minister will now have to fix responsibility for the failure.
 
 
