NEW DELHI: Prime Minister   inaugurated the BJP's new headquarters on  , spread over 1.70 lakh square feet, on Sunday in the presence of party chief  , former   chiefs, several Union ministers and office-bearers.

 
 While Modi lauded Shah and his team for building the multi-storeyed, three-tower HQ in 18 months, the party chief said the building was bigger than the office of any political party in the world. He added that the new headquarters was fitted with the latest communication technologies and had a spacious social media office. The PM could address a state executive sitting here, he said.
 
 Former party chiefs L K Advani, Murli Manohar Joshi, Rajnath Singh and Nitin Gadkari besides Union minister Sushma Swaraj were on the dais at the event.
 
 Modi said the BJP and its forerunner Jana Sangh had since independence led all agitations in national interest, adding that democracy was the party's core value which enabled it to take along allies successfully.
 
 The PM said Jana Sangh was founded because after independence, a need was felt to have one or two more strong national parties. "After independence, Bharatiya Jana Sangh and then BJP led all agitations in national interest in the country. And we are proud of it," he told the gathering. That is why BJP was "dyed in the colour of patriotism" and was always willing to struggle and sacrifice for the cause of the nation, Modi said.
 
 At a time when some NDA allies have spoken about their differences with the BJP, the PM recalled the work of the Atal Bihari Vajpayee-led NDA government. Vajpayee was successful in taking allies along while navigating regional aspirations and sparking anew hope in the country, Modi said, adding, "The root cause for this is that democracy is in our blood. That is why we are moving ahead while taking everyone along to the best extent possible."
 
 The new building may be the work place for the party but its area of work should be the country's boundaries, Modi said, adding that party workers should be its soul.
 
 Shah said BJP was on course to have its office in almost every district of the country in a year's time. He said he had done his research and came to know that with an area of over 1.70 lakh sq feet, the BJP office was the biggest of any political party in the world.
 
 The party and its crores of workers would work together to realise the PM's dream of a new India, he said while paying tributes to departed party leaders andworkers.
 
