NAGPUR: The Union ministry of health has proposed to the   (MCI) to make it mandatory for all government medical colleges and hospitals in the country to set up Multi Drug Resistance (MDR) tuberculosis centres.

 It will be mandatory for all the GMCHs to set up such centres for obtaining recognition from MCI. The rule also applies to private medical colleges.
 
 Though the directorate of medical education and research (DMER) has still not obtained any such directive from the MCI, Dr Pravin Shingare, director of DMER, said that the medical education department will be more than happy if such a directive is issued.
 
 “About eight of our GMCHs already have MDR centres. But those which do not have them can also be upgraded easily with the facility as funds for this will anyway come from the Centre under the national TB control programme. The state governments will not have to bear any additional financial burden,” he said.
 
 Over 1.47,000 people suffer from MDR, TB in the country. State TB control programme head Dr Sanjeev Kamble told TOI that the MCI has already made it mandatory to have DOTs centres in GMCHs.
 
 If MDRs are also included in GMCHs, it will be a big leap in controlling and eradication of TB. It will directly help poor patients who cannot afford the expensive nine-month treatment. Every GMCH in the process will have to set aside ten beds each for male and female patients.
 
 Dr Sunil Kharpade, deputy director general of TB, ministry of health at Delhi, said that all new medical colleges being registered in government and private sectors will now have to have an   centre for seeking MCI recognition.
 
 “India continues to top the number of TB patients in the world. This is a step towards strengthening the dream of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who has pledged to eradicate TB by 2020-25. The new preposition will serve dual purposes. It will help take medical treatment to all TB patients in the country. Secondly, it will minimize the incidence of the disease which has been killing lakhs of people every year,” he said. 
 
 The country has about 28 lakh TB cases of which over 4.5 lakh TB deaths occur every year. Over 200 new infections are added to every one lakh population. The country has about 140 MDR centres but with all medical colleges getting these centres, the TB elimination programme is definitely bound to get a fillip.
 
 
