JAIPUR: It was a first-of-its-kind incident at the Ranthambhore   Reserve (RTR) in 2010 when 50-year-old Daulat  , a forest ranger then, was suddenly attacked by a tiger. The ranger was trying to tranquillise the big cat that had strayed into a village but had ventured too near. It was a close shave for Shaktawat who had to be airlifted to the capital for treatment and sustained a badly mauled face.

 But years after that incident, man-animal-forest authority conflict still continues to plague the tiger reserve as relocation of villages go down the priority ladder of the department. 
 
 The Star Male, a 13-year-old tiger, had strayed into the Chaan village, situated on the periphery of the reserve, when villagers spotted it. Soon, man-animal conflict came to fore as hundreds of men gathered and attacked the tiger, nomenclated T-28.
 
 A team from the forest department reached the village but rescue was a far cry as with rising pressure from villagers tranquillising the wild cat went wrong leaving it dead on the spot.
 
 There are approximately 95 villages on the periphery of RTR but they seem nowhere in the priority of forest department for relocation. Officials of the forest department said, “T-28 could have been saved if the tiger and rescue team was not attacked by villagers. Two guards were also injured during the rescue operation.” 
 
 “On Tuesday, the situation became worse as law and order situation was not maintained. Police should support the forest department in dealing with violent villagers in such incidents,” says  , a member of NTCA. 
 
 However, the department claims that relocation of villages on the periphery is not possible presently as there are not many takers for the present compensation package of Rs 10 lakh per family.
 
 “If the compensation package is doubled, we are sure that we would be able to relocate most of these villages,” senior officials of the department said.
 
 In fact, the department called an emergency meeting on Thursday to chalk out the future course of action as far relocation of villagers is concerned. 
 
 Added to this is the rising number of tigers at the reserve. “The thriving tiger population at RTR is the highest in the park's history. And it is their numbers that is becoming a problem as it is far more than the park can handle, leading to tigers straying out into villages,” officials said.
 
 As Ranthambore’s capacity to accommodate tigers remains a concern such incidents are expected to happen again. “Most fights in RTR have been among young adults baying to dominate the richer prey base areas and the core. Some of these fights have results in the weaker cat getting injured and been pushed out to newer areas. Many injured cats move to nearby villages for easy availability of water and food. Here, they are attacked by the villagers,” said another forest department official.
 
 On the other hand, alleging apathetic attitude of forest officials, villagers claim that even after so many attacks no strategy is being developed by the department to put a stop to straying of big cats.
 
 Durga Lal, a villager from Chaan, said, “The forest department should develop sufficient prey base inside the park or they should shift tigers to some other place. These villages had come up hundreds of years ago and have a right to exist here. These attacks are happening due to imbalance in the park. We cannot leave our villages due to attacks. Fighting the tigers is the only solution.”
 
 
