Every Kolkatan holds heritage close to heart. Be it the architectural marvels left behind by the Nizams or the British, the literary legacy of Tagore and many more, the musical history of the bauls, the rich and delicious legacy of Bengal’s sweetmeat makers or its Mughlai culinary traditions, idol-making, taant and handicrafts and what not.
But the City of Joy has also been the birthplace of many giants of Indian cinema like Satyajit Ray,  , Mrinal Sen and Hrishikesh Mukherjee, among others. And they and their contemporaries have left behind a heritage that hardly figures in the greater scheme of things vis-à-vis preservation and restoration. True, we have the   (NFAI) where people like its founder and director Paramesh Krishnan Nair spent a lifetime trying to preserve this invaluable heritage. But though Nair saved many, including Dadasaheb Phalke’s 
 , in reality, just over 1% of the roughly 1,300 Indian films made in the silent era have been saved till date. And that’s roughly 13 films! Even the 
  that Nair saved is not the complete feature film; pieces of the reel are still missing. We also have the   in the US to thank for making a humongous effort towards restoring many of Satyajit Ray’s films, including 
 . But many classic films may still be lying in a bad shape in some studio backyard or under some producer’s bed and many may have disappeared without a trace, like the first Indian talkie, 
 . So how do we get to see those films again, if at all?
 Enter the frame  , who owns a successful advertising agency and is also a filmmaker. He made a documentary on Nair, titled 
  that went on to win a National Award, while giving Shivendra a new purpose in life. While documenting the life and work of India’s greatest archivist, Shivendra realised that we have lost a lot of our filmic heritage and will soon lose more if we don’t act fast. He did, and founded the Film Heritage Foundation (FHF), a not-for-profit organisation that has since taken a very different approach to film preservation and restoration — through education. And the impact he has made till date is apparent from the fact that Shivendra has been invited to speak about Indian film preservation at the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences in the US in July. He will be the first Indian to speak on the subject at the academy, where his 
  will also be screened. He is also a patron of the  , a member of the Fondazione Cineteca di Bologna, the famous film archive in Italy, and works closely with Martin Scorsese’s World Cinema Foundation.
 
  
 
 “We had conducted this extremely successful workshop on film preservation and restoration at the National Film Archives in 2016. Among the participants were representatives of Bengal’s state archives who were extremely enthusiastic and happy with what they got to learn. In fact, they were instrumental in getting us to do a workshop here,” Shivendra told us, adding that the response he has received so far from both the Bengali film fraternity and the government is “extraordinary”.
 “I got to meet Goutam Ghose and his knowledge about the subject is praiseworthy. He has shown keen interest in the workshop. And so have various government agencies involved with the state archives here. They have quite a collection here! It’s small, but very well preserved and managed. They have even preserved a few films in colour-separated (red-blue-green) negatives. I’m sure they will be able to take it even further after the workshop in November,” he added with a smile.
 Shivendra, however, rued how the digital cinema revolution had led to a complete overhaul of the screening system, adding that’s one of the issues he wants to address in the workshop. “I visited Nandan the other day and was sad to see that even they had done away with celluloid projectors. In fact, that’s exactly what filmmakers like Chris ( ) don’t want; they want people to continue enjoying the quality of movies shot on film; they want that choice — to be able to shoot and make movies on celluloid. But that can’t happen if there are no theatres to screen these films,” he said.
 When we asked him about what enthusiasts could expect from the workshop, Shivendra said it would be a major educational event, with participants coming in from Sri Lanka, Nepal, Bhutan, Bangladesh, Myanmar, Thailand and Malaysia. “There will also be a team from Criterion, which has played a major role in the restoration of Satyajit Ray’s films, along with representatives from all major players of this field from across the world,” he added.
 The workshop will focus on a variety of aspects of film preservation, including celluloid preservation, digitisation, digital restoration, photographic conservation and paper conservation. “You see, film preservation is not just restricted to the content itself. There is a plethora of things associated with a film — like posters, scripts, screenplays, notes, clapboards etc — that also needs to be preserved, as they are important components of the history of a film. That’s why our workshops stress on paper conservation,” Shivendra added.
 
  
 
 Shivendra first collaborated with Martin Scorsese’s World Cinema Foundation (WCF) for the restoration of Uday Shankar’s 1948 film 
 . And since then, there’s been no looking back. “Such is the man’s (Scorsese) dedication to film preservation that he has been sending us money to organise the workshops ever since. We’ve also been actively working with the WCF in various restoration projects. He has single-handedly restored thousands of films from the world over. And that’s pretty expensive business,” he said.
 As for Nolan, the 
  and 
  director and Tacita Dean, a visual artist from the UK who primarily works on film, were in India recently to participate in an interaction organised by FHF. Both are vocal supporters of the continuation of film as a shooting and screening medium. As Nolan puts it: “I gave a speech some years ago where I was asked to defend film, and I said I felt like a stonemason defending marble. It’s ridiculous. This is why we’re all here. It’s what we do. This is film.” Even Scorsese shares the same passion: “Film has a history and that history doesn’t begin with digital formats. It begins with film… And that’s part of the art form — the light meets the emulsion and extraordinary things happen. So yes, I believe it’s essential to preserve that choice.”
 And that’s why each of FHF’s workshops stresses on the preservation of film. “Nolan screened the celluloid version of 
  during that interaction. We were blown away! You see, digital cinema is just too perfect, but celluloid, with its imperfections, is the real deal. And that’s exactly what Chris (Nolan) and Tacita emphasised on — the continued choice to make and screen movies on film. That’s something even we strongly believe in and so, it’s part of our educational initiatives,” Shivendra said.
 
  
 
 Restoration is expensive business. “Not always,” said Shivendra, “But the cost of restoration of some films, like 
 , runs into crores.” When we asked him about copyright and ownership issues, he smiled and said it’s a major hurdle. “Films are traditionally considered commercial property. So before a producer or a family member gives us an old print, the first question that pops up is how much money are they going to get. What they don’t understand is that restoration is art, a passion. It’s not a commercial pursuit. Scorsese spent a billion dollars on 
  and hasn’t been able to release DVDs of the film because of copyright issues. Tell me, who can possibly earn back a billion dollars by selling DVDs of a restored classic? We face this sort of problems all the time,” he added.
 Bengal is no stranger to this issue, with quite a few producers refusing to give up Ritwick Ghatak’s films for restoration. Let’s hope that after Shivendra’s workshop, things will change like it did in the south. “Education is a game changer, trust me. Last year, after our massively successful workshop at the Prasad Film Laboratories in Chennai, all kinds of people came to us with can after can of old film reels, just to check if what they had was some classic movie. It was unbelievable,” Shivendra said with a smile.
 
