NEW DELHI: What so far had been believed to be a “foolproof” system is being subjected to a relook after the   had to invalidate two tests and announce re-examinations due to leakage of the question papers.

 Former   officials and sources said the leaks could have been the result of breaches in the protocols under the existing system. Some also opined that the reversion to a single question   could have made the leaks “easy”. 
 
 
  
  
 
 Given such views, Prakash Javadekar, Union minister for human resource development, said that in addition to action against the people responsible, the education board will also initiate reforms in the examination to make it a “more secure and efficient system”.
 
 The damage this year was widespread because only one question paper was dispatched to all   centres. Usually, a paper appears in three versions. One is used in Delhi, another in the rest of India and the third for those appearing outside India. Within each zone, there are three sets of the same question paper, with the same questions in a different sequence. The idea is to make sure that no two students have the same sets in the examination hall to restrict cheating. 
 
 This year, according to sources, the board broke with tradition without assigning a reason for such a move. “Had the   been of a particular paper circulated among Delhi exam centres, the number of students required to reappear for the exam would have been less,” reasoned a source. 
 
 As it is, board officials confirmed that 20 lakh students would have to sit again for the exam because they are unsure of how many had access to the leaked paper, especially since it was circulated on WhatsApp.
 
 “CBSE otherwise has a very robust system in place,” asserted a former board official, “so there must have been a breach somewhere.” The opportunities for such acts could arise anywhere in the current procedure for the framing, printing and dispatch of exam question papers (see graphic). A former controller of examination was of the view that the leakage point wasn’t likely the exam centre “because the time frame is too small for such leaks”.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 Calling for a comprehensive evaluation of the procedure in order to restore the faith of students in the system, former board chairperson B P   said that the leak could be a situational development as the board was “overburdened”. “The number of schools and students has increased significantly. The examinations are critical and any disconnect can create a problem,” said Khandelwal.
 
 Khandelwal also pointed out that CBSE had exams other than the Class X and Class XII ones to contend with now. “CBSE has been gradually burdened with many other examinations. Under an interim order of the Supreme Court, the board was entrusted with the medical entrance exam till the Medical Council of India started its own exams. Then came the engineering examination. And what is the point in handing UGC-NET to CBSE?” asked Khandelwal. 
 
 
