GURUGRAM: Notorious criminal Narender alias Tillu, who is the prime accused in the recent Badshapur   case, was caught after a brief   with cops late night on Tuesday near Iffco Chowk. 

 Tillu was riding pillion on a bike, and fell from it after he was shot on his leg, while the bike rider managed to escape. He was admitted to   Hospital in Delhi with four bullets in both his legs, said police.
 
 According to police, Tillu is key accused in the murder of   resident Anand Kaushik, who was shot dead while his wife received a bullet injury on March 13. Following up on that case, cops had already detained a local scribe, Pradeep Nirala, for questioning and arrested him on March 16 under Section 120B (criminal conspiracy) of IPC. He is still in judicial custody. 
 
 The arrest followed a dramatic encounter. Sometime around midnight on Tuesday, crime units of Sector 39 and Sector 18 were on patrol, when they were tipped-off that Tillu was roaming with an associate in Pataudi with arms, possibly planning another crime. 
 
 The cops barricaded Iffco Chowk. Around 1am on Wednesday, a Bajaj Pulsar bike smashed through the barricade at speed, and then took an U-turn. 
 
 When crime unit teams headed by inspector Rajkumar and inspector Narender Chauhan chased the two, the pillion rider fired at them. The cops retaliated and hitting the pillion rider with two bullets. He fell from the bike, while the rider fled. No cop was injured. Police nabbed and identified the pillion rider as Tillu, and recovered an illegal pistol with two live cartridges from him. He was taken to Civil Hospital, who referred him to Delhi’s Safdurjung Hospital.
 
 A fresh FIR was registered against Tillu and his associate — identified as Pataudi-resident Amit — under sections 332 (causing hurt to deter public servant), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant), 186 (obstructing public servant), 307 (attempt to murder) of IPC and sections 25-54-59 of Arms Act at Sector 18 police station. 
 
 “The accused is a notorious criminal with over 13 heinous crimes against his name. After murdering Anand Kaushik, he was on the run. We filed a request for announcing a reward of Rs 1 lakh on his head, which was being processed when he got caught. He is being treated and is out of danger. We will take him on police remand as soon as he is discharged, and will arrest his other associates soon. A police team has been deployed at the hospital to guard him,” said Sumit Kuhar, DCP (crime).
 
 
