PATIALA: Union finance minister Arun Jaitley’s decision to make a special budgetary provision for management of   in the states of Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan has been hailed by the Punjab agencies that have been fighting a losing battle against the menace of crop burning.

 However, the farmers’ organizations are still wary of the scheme claiming that such announcements made by the governments get caught in red tape and benefits never reach the farmers. They now want direct transfer of financial benefits to the cultivators to manage crop stubble.
 
 In his budget speech, the finance minister had termed air pollution as a “cause for concern”, and announced support to tackle the menace by providing subsidies on machinery used for crop residue management.
 
 Those in the know of things said the provision made in the Union Budget was broadly based on the recommendations by the National Steering Committee on Climate Change, which had also got a Rs 100-crore regional project sanctioned by the ministry of environment, forest and climate change in December, last year. After being included in the Union Budget, the state of Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Rajasthan are now hoping to get a Rs 1000-crore boost to deal with the crop residue problem.
 
 Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB) chairman   said the latest budgetary provisions were an extension of the Union government’s regional project under which special subsidies were to be provided to the co-operative societies and individual farmers for purchase of crop residue management machines.
 
 Facing heat from various quarters, including the  , over the rising number of farm fires after the harvesting of the paddy crop, Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh had sought Rs 2,000 crore package from the Centre to deal with the problem.
 
 Punjab agriculture commissioner Dr Balwinder Singh Sidhu said the Rs 100 crore regional project approved by the   of environment, forest and climate change had five components which include setting up of 12 demonstration clusters for 1,000 villages each, centres from where the farmers can hire straw management machines and also assisting the cultivators with subsidies, who wish to buy machines for individual farms across the state. Besides, a state-level centre was also to be set up to coordinate all these activities.
 
 It was learnt that the government was aiming at providing 75% subsidy on machinery for the co-operative societies and 50% subsidy for individual farmers.
 
 However, the state farmers are still adamant and are demanding that a compensation of Rs 200 per quintal should be given to the cultivators to manage crop residue.
 
 Jagmohan Singh, the general secretary of the Bharatiya Kisan Union Dakaunda, said 86% of the farmer were small and marginal farmers and were not in a position to buy such machines. He said giving subsidy to co-operative societies for buying crop residue management machines could be a good move, but such schemes generally get caught in red tape and never reach farmers. Instead, the government should have made a provision to provide direct financial benefits to the cultivators to manage crop residue.
 
 
 
 
 The Union government had in December approved Rs 100-crore regional project to mitigate the effects of stubble burning on air quality and soil health under the National Adaptation Fund for Climate Change (NAFCC)
 
 The project had been approved by the ministry of environment, forest and climate change on the recommendations made by the national steering committee on climate change. Under the project, the initial focus was on farmer awareness and capacity building activities so that the farmers can be encouraged to adopt alternative practices to manage the crop residue
 
 
