Mumbai:   Bank has launched a   account that can be opened digitally — a first for the bank worldwide. The savings account, which can be opened remotely using Aadhaar and a one-time password, requires a minimum balance of Rs 10,000 and is the lender’s first foray into a wider market.

 Announcing the bank’s new   strategy, Stanchart India CEO   said the bank has seen its mobile payments double each year for the last two years following the growth in mobile usage. She pointed out that an average Indian consumes five times more mobile data than US customers.
 
 “The idea is to digitise as much of our services as possible. If we do that we can acquire scale, otherwise with our 100 branches it’s difficult,” said Daruwala. She added that digital account opening brings down costs to a fifth of what it currently costs the bank.
 
 Daruwla — who took charge of Stanchart in November 2015 — said that unlike other banks with corporate loans, Stanchart would not have to take a hit on account of non-performing assets (NPAs) this year. “Being a foreign bank, we follow provisioning norms that are much more rigorous and we had taken the pain two years back. This year we’re hoping for some recoveries,” she said. The lender’s focus is now on growing retail deposits and loans. “We have increased the share of retail loans from 22% to 29%. It should take us three years to get to our target of 40% given that our corporate balance sheet is also growing now,” said Daruwala.
 
 According to Shyamal Saxena, retail banking head, the mass affluent segment comprising individuals with Rs 3-4 lakh income is the mass segment for the bank. “This is the educated, white-collar segment that is just coming to the job market and is aspirational. We are also reaching out to our corporate customers to service their employees for home loans.”
 
 The savings account, opened digitally, will be similar to a regular savings account, with the customer being eligible for five ATM transactions and the first chequebook for free. “The account will have only the RBI imposed restriction of maximum deposit of Rs 1 lakh and maximum credit of Rs 2 lakh into the account in a year. Customers who want to exceed these limits will have to go for full KYC by providing biometrics,” said Saxena. Even after doing the entire KYC process, the customer can continue to retain a minimum balance of Rs 10,000.
 
 “While customers are free to open accounts from anywhere in the country, we are targeting the 43 cities where we are present,” said Saxena. The bank has launched three fully automated electronic banking centres in offices of its corporate clients where customers can do everything from opening accounts to making deposits without human interventions.
 
 According to Daruwala, while India continues to be among the top three markets for the lender, there is no need for fresh capital as the bank has ploughed back enough of it over the years, due to RBI norms on profit repatriation. On the new priority sector norms, she said the only challenge was financing small and marginal farmers and the lender might have to buy these loans from other lenders.
 
 
