Bengaluru: Tejraj Sharma, the man accused of stabbing Karnataka Lokayukta Justice P Vishwanath Shetty in his chambers on Wednesday, had filed more than 18 complaints with the ombudsman. These complaints were compiled into five cases, sources said.

 In his complaints, Sharma, 33, the proprietor of ‘Ambekrupa Marketers’, a furniture shop in SS Puram, Tumakuru, had accused government officials of corruption and dereliction of duty.
 
 Sharma’s plaints were against officials of the women and child welfare department, government colleges, assistant commissioners of commercial taxes department and accountants of district co-operative banks among others.
 
 “The main drawback was that he did not back his allegations with documentary evidence,” Lokayukta sources said, adding, “Sharma accused almost all persons named in his complaints of corruption and dereliction of duty, but he failed to prove the charges. Most of his complaints were filed during May, June and July last year.”
 
 After holding preliminary enquiries, Justice Shetty himself closed two cases, while Upa Lokayukta Justice Subhash Adi closed one, sources said. “Two more cases were pending. Hearing in one case, against officials of the women and child welfare department, was scheduled for March 19,” sources said. Another corruption and dereliction of duty case filed by Sharma against the assistant commissioner of commercial taxes, Tumakuru, was posted to June 19.
 
 ‘Assailant had come on Tuesday too’: Tejraj Sharma had visited the Lokayukta office on Tuesday too, Lokayukta officials said on Thursday. “He was upset that three cases filed by him has been closed,” a senior Lokayukta staffer said. “We told him that we had to close them because there was no evidence to prove the allegations. Sharma was not in a mood to listen to us. He stormed out saying he will meet Lokayukta himself the next day.”
 
 Sources said: “Sharma wanted to bag a tender to supply furniture to government schools and colleges in June last year. The tender was awarded to the lowest bidder and a livid Sharma had a showdown with officials then.”
 
 
