NAWANSHAHR: Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Tuesday ordered a probe after spotting machines engaged in   on the bank of Satluj river. The chief minister was on his way to Kartarpur in a chopper when he saw the   evidently engaged in illegal mining on the river.

 A case was being registered by the Nawanshahr police against contractors of mining sites along with drivers of the tippers and operators of the mining machines. Nawanshahr SSP   said, “Others would also be arrested soon.” He added that the machines and tippers had been recovered from different places in and around the Satluj.
 
 Captain had noticed some mining activity in the river bed on his way from Chandigarh to Kartarpur in a helicopter. “Highly perturbed at the shocking sight, Captain Amarinder immediately asked the helicopter pilot to fly lower and take a sortie around the river. With the sortie confirming his suspicions, the chief minister wasted no time in ordering an urgent and thorough probe into the matter as it appeared to be a case of illegal mining,” his official spokesperson said.
 
 The CM uploaded the photographs taken from the helicopter on his Twitter handle and immediately ordered Nawanshahr and Jalandhar DCs and SSPs to check. He had estimated that illegal mining was being carried out between Rahon (Nawanshahr) and Phillaur (Jalandhar).
 
 Nawanshahr and Khanna SSPs rushed to the river and Jalandhar police and administration officers also checked areas in their jurisdiction. The mining machines and vehicles were seized by the Nawanshahr police after it became clear that illegal mining was taking place in the district.
 
 Amarinder also ordered a detailed investigation to fix responsibility followed by stern action against those found guilty.
 
 The chief minister again ordered the police chief Suresh Arora to send a strong message down the ranks to ensure a complete stop to all illegal mining across the state. He instructed the DGP to expedite the formulation of a comprehensive strategy, in coordination with the mining department and the district administrations across the state, to curb illegal activity and made it clear that non-compliance or further delay would not be tolerated.
 
 When questioned, industries and mining general manager Mahesh Khanna, who recently got additional charge of the district, confirmed use of heavy machinery for mining was not allowed at any sites and revealed the mining contract for Malikpur was in the name of Kudrat Deep Singh.
 
 This mining site had hit headlines when Jai Kishan Singh Rori, the AAP MLA from Garshankar, had visited it third week of November. He was not allowed to enter the site by the mining contractor. A day later, three machines, including two Pokland earth movers and one digger, were recovered by the administration from the mining site. However, these machines were released within a few days when the contractor, in a reply to the show-cause notice, claimed they were not being used for mining but only for levelling passages and to take out tractor trolleys if these were stuck in the wet sand.
 
 Reacting to the crackdown against illegal mining, AAP co-president Aman Arora said, “At last, Capt Amarinder has seen the ground reality while flying in his helicopter. It is high time to acknowledge another reality; Illegal mining at such mass scale cannot be done without the patronage of the government. Either the CM doesn’t tell his people to stop it or they simply don’t listen.”
 
 Leader of the opposition Sukhpal Singh Khaira said the menace of illegal mining in the state will not stop unless the   government takes action against the big fish believed to be involved in the illegal trade. “Merely tweeting pictures of unauthorized mining and action after aerial surveys will not solve the problem,” he said.
 
 
 
 
 After photographs of the mining site were tweeted by the chief minister, speculation about a senior Congress leader’s links with the Malikpur site started doing rounds. Well-placed sources told TOI that even Captain Singh was apprised of the name of this party leader. A week ago, Amarinder had ordered a crackdown on illegal mining. “It is not possible that condition of environmental clearance could be violated so flagrantly without high-profile political backing. Now, it is for the CM to act against ‘invisible hands’ as the issue has already dented his government’s reputation,” a ruling party leader told TOI.
 
 
