KOLKATA: The city partied hard on New Year’s Eve but the tipplers sobered down. Instances of disorderly conduct and   plunged sharply, compared with the last two years. The calm that prevailed across Kolkata’s watering holes on the night of December 31 left their owners pleasantly surprised. The police, too, heaved a sigh of relief. Many felt the stricter vigil against   and the heightened glare on the city’s bars helped discipline the merry-making.

 There were fewer brawls inside bars and restaurants on the festive night, with incidents of drunken driving and disorderly conduct dropping to half. “Those who visited restaurants for a drink were subdued. Drinking was by and large restricted and people behaved responsibly. This was a departure from previous years. But strict vigil on drunken driving helped curb post-drinking misbehavior this time,” said  , secretary, Hotel and Restaurants’ Association of Eastern India (HRAEI).
 
 Restaurants on Park Street, which saw a massive crowd on New Year’s Eve, confirmed the trend. Despite the extended hours (most restaurants were open till 1am), most patrons chose moderation. Binge-drinking was no longer the order of the night, according to  , owner of a popular restaurant on Park Street. “We tried to identify the drinkers and chose to let in families first. But even those who dropped in for a drink were well-behaved,,”   said.
 
 The sustained campaign against drunken driving has made people conscious, felt Nitin Kothari, owner of two very popular restaurants in the Park Street area. “Drinking has been very responsible this year. The campaign is being talked about and people made sure either not to drink a peg too many or not to drive home. App cabs are being hailed more frequently,” said Kothari.
 
 Earlier this year, the police had asked restaurants to keep vigil on drinking, refuse drinks to inebriated patrons and even use breathalyzers to check whether a patron was drunk. “The glare on drinking has made a difference. There has been a sharp fall in the number of drunken brawls, which would be very frequent during the year-end period,” said a central Kolkata bar owner.   had set up 95 checkpoints across the city on New Year’s Eve and checked as many as 821 vehicles, armed with breathalysers, and managed to catch only 93 drink-driving violators. On January 1, only two persons were booked for the offence.
 
 Diptobrata Bose, a resident of  , is one of those who didn’t drive his car home, realising he was too drunk. “I was partying and realised I was too drunk to drive. I called up a cousin, who dropped us,” he said. 
 
 “Many opted for app cabs and did not drive. We set up strict checks and stopped every other vehicle and made them undergo breathalyser tests, but most drivers came clean,” said a senior Lalbazar officer. 
 
 
