KOLKATA: With ICSE exams beginning on Monday, followed by CBSE (Classes X and XII),   and Higher Secondary examinations over the next few days, schools have started to take measures to de-stress the candidates.

 Calcutta Girls’ School has decided to keep admit cards for the board examinations in the school so that each morning students do not panic and forget to bring them to the examination centre. Examinees of both Classes X and XII have been handed out a coloured photocopy of the admit card instead. 
 
  
  
 CGS principal Basanti Biswas said, “I have kept the original admit cards. Every year a few students forget to bring them and then panic. Now, the supervisors have been told that examinees will carry the photocopy. In case they want to verify, the originals will be available with the school.”
 
  had organized two seminars for first-time board exam candidates and their parents. “We explained the approach to the question papers, which may ease their stress. We suggested them how to manage time and gave tips on reducing examination fear. We also stressed on the diet to be followed during the exam time and discussed the previous results of our school with them,” said principal Sujoy Biswas.
 
 Authorities of The Heritage School conduct regular counselling sessions with students and their parents. Principal Seema Sapru said, “It is a regular system throughout the year. Till last year, we held yoga sessions for board examinees. But this year, we have stopped the practice because the students can’t concentrate and would rather do a revision during the time.”
 
 “From this session, we started revision classes where the students get to choose their preferred teacher to revise and clear doubts on the respective subjects. We have uploaded an open letter addressing parents and students to think about about life beyond exams. Parents keep trying to transfer their anxiety to the students, which needs to stop,” she added.
 
 Regular yoga classes are held at St James School. Students are taught exercises to de-stress. Principal TH Ireland said, “We conduct similar sessions for teachers as well for them to cope up with the tension.”
 
 Birla High Boys’ School principal Mukta Nain holds a special prayer service every year. “This time too we held a similar service in January. At these sessions, examinees are given out achievable targets and tips to study effectively,” Nain said.
 
 
