JAIPUR: Other than creating a major environmental problem for the government, the illegal and indiscriminate sand mining in Banas River is causing a huge loss of revenue for the state exchequer.

 Despite the ban imposed by the Supreme Court, the mining mafia has deployed scores of tractors and trucks to carry out the illegal mining trade clandestinely with the alleged support of police, administrative officials and a section of local politicians.
 
 In the process, the state has suffered an approximate revenue loss of over Rs 150 crore in the last few months, according to mining department sources.
 
 As per estimates, the mafia excavates sand from the river bed in Tonk and Sawai Madhopur districts and transports 800 to 1,000 trucks daily in violation of the apex court order.
 
 As sand commands an exorbitant price in the grey market, these trucks are overloaded beyond capacity.
 
 “Since there’s no stringent action, every truck has an overload of at least 25-30 tonnes above the capacity. It’s a huge revenue loss daily for the state government as earlier you could impose a royalty of Rs 35 per tonne in Tonk district,” the mining department source said.
 
 After November 16, when the   restrained large lease holders from mining sand, the state is suffering an approximate loss of Rs 150 per tonne in revenue.
 
 “The government levies Rs 15 crore as minimum monthly royalty from lease holders. Other than this, it imposes premium and a dead rent charge. The mafia is mining sand illegally without paying anything,” the source said.
 
 Considering that the ban has been in place for four months, losses from monthly royalty itself come to Rs 60 crore. If you add the royalty per tonne for the extra load transported from the area, the total could go up to Rs 150 crore, said the source.
 
 Menawhile, indiscriminate mining is also devastating the environment.
 
 After the replenishment study was done, a few sand mining leases were submitted and the ministry of environment and forests (MoEF) had recently given its nod to carry out mining scientifically in the state.
 
 The permission was given on the condition that mining would be done as per the approved plan, and restricted to only 25% of the reserve from the approved mining area.
 
 “The mafia operation involves heavy machinery, which is a dangerous practice. As per rules, 25 % excavation is allowed up to 125 metres from the corner of the riverbed on either side. If more sand is mined from the corners of the riverbed, there’s the possibility of water entering the villages during monsoon,” the source said.
 
 Ever since the ban, middlemen, transporters and police have forged a nexus to profit from the sand crunch. The mafia allegedly shares it profits with officials who are entrusted with keeping a check on illegal transportation. “Earlier the state mining department had border home guards at their disposal. They were deployed to enforce the mining norms. However, the home guards have been withdrawn and the department now relies on the help of   (RAC),” said an official.
 
 But getting RAC personnel is a tough task for the mining department. “A lot of procedure has to be followed by officials from the level of commandant to SP for deployment. Often, these RAC units are moved to another place at a short notice,” the official said.
 
 
