PUDUCHERRY: Police on Saturday arrested two more in connection with the inter-state   fraud and skimming racket in Puducherry and Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Karnataka. The arrested were identified as R Kamal, 28, from Cuddalore and J Saranavanan alias Sham, 27 from Kolathur, Chennai. 

 The arrests were made based on the confession of the two people -  , 26, technical assistant at   from Lawspet and S Jayachandiran alias Chandru, 30 from Murungapakkam, who were arrested on Thursday for their involvement in the fraud. Police seized equipment and properties worth 31 lakh from their possession. 
 
 A cybercrime team of CB-CID from Puducherry arrested Kamal and Sham from Chennai and brought them to Puducherry on Thursday. 
 
 They also seized seven point-of-sale machines, a magnetic stripe reader, 20 credit/debit cards, four duplicate ATM cards, six ATM cards, 31g gold jewels, five mobile phones and a laptop with an adopter from their possession.
 
 Preliminary inquiries revealed the involvement of many people in Puducherry, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Karnataka. Police have launched efforts to identify and nab all those involved in the crime.
 
 The modus operandi of the gang was to fix skimmer machines and secret cameras at ATMs and collect information of the ATM cards and its pin numbers of people. 
 
 The gang members create duplicate ATM cards through magnet strip reader (MSR) machines and withdraw money from the cardholders' bank accounts. They also transfer money from the cardholders' accounts to their accounts by swiping the duplicate cards on the POS machines in their possession.
 
 Police had booked the four under Sections 468 (forgery for purpose of cheating), 471 (using as genuine a forged document), 379 (punishment for theft) and 511 (punishment for attempting to commit offences punishable with imprisonment for life or other imprisonment) of the   and Section 66-C of the IT Act , 2000.
 
 Director general of police S K Gautam and deputy inspector general of police (administration)   lauded the CBCID team in nabbing the accused and launching all-out efforts to nab others involved in the crime. 
 
