KOCHI: Most of the students came out of the examination hall happy after appearing for the   economics   on Wednesday. 

 The exam, which was earlier cancelled by the   after the question paper got leaked, was conducted at 4,000 centres across the country. The board had exempted the foreign students from appearing for the exam again, since in its investigation, it did not find the leak to have impacted their results. Students said that   was easier than the previous one.
 
 "It was unfair for the students to be asked to reappear for the CBSE Class XII   paper for no fault of theirs. But after all the hardwork and tension, the re-exam was easy. Most of the questions asked were direct," said Anitha Satyan, economics teacher in Global Public School.
 
 Some students also took the re-exam as an opportunity to better their performance. "I think the re-exam questions were much easier as I wasn't too happy with the way I wrote the earlier paper," said Ashna, a student of Toc-H Public School.
 
 Not many were entirely satisfied with the pattern of the paper. Miria Rojer, student, Global Public School, said: "It was slightly difficult to answer this paper compared to the last one as there were some questions which had not appeared in any of the previous papers."
 
 While there were students who were preparing themselves to face the re-exam, there were also those who didn't spend much time due to the struggle of having to learn the same portions again. Shaun, a Sacred Hearts student, found it "a drag to re-attempt an exam" and because of that he found the previous exam much better.
 
 As fretful and challenging as it was for students and teachers, parents were equally worried. "These kids already have large gaps between exams, which extend the entire examination period to more than a month. On top of that when CBSE issues a re-examination date, it becomes all the more difficult for the children and for us," said the mother of a student studying in Gregorian Public School.
 
 
