HYDERABAD:   IT minister   is ‘delighted’ with the manifesto that the Karnataka unit of the   released on Friday ahead of the Assembly polls next week.

 
 “Imitation is the best form of flattery. Delighted that various welfare and development schemes of Telangana chief minister K Chandrashekar Rao have been picked up by BJP in Karnataka polls,”   said on Friday.
 
 Among the aspects that bear similarity is ‘Mission Kalyani’, a scheme akin to Mission Kakatiya; ‘Vivaha Mangala Yojana’ akin to   scheme; and farm loan waiver of Rs 1lakh.
 
 It may be mentioned here that Mission Kakatiya taken up in Telangana aims to provide piped drinking water to every household. Under ‘Kalyana Lakshmi/Shaadi Mubarak, the bride’s family gets Rs 1lakh to meet wedding expenditure in Telangana. Under the ‘Vivaha Mangala Yojana’, BJP has promised ?25,000 and 3gm of gold to the bride’s family.
 
 KTR also pointed out that the ‘K-Hub’ announced by BJP Karnataka was inspired by TSIPASS, the single-window clearance for industries being implemented in Telangana.
 
 For its part, BJP Karnataka tweeted, “Start-up culture will further flourish under BJP. It has pledged to develop 6 “KHubs” as the biggest incubators and co-working spaces for startups in India at Hubballi, Bengaluru, Raichur, Mysuru, Mangaluru and Kalaburgi.”
 
 ‘Mukhya Mantri Annapurna Canteens’, KTR pointed out was inspired by GHMC’s Annapurna canteens initiative.
 
 Interestingly, BJP Karnataka has also mentioned that if voted to power, B S Yedyurappa, the man it has chosen to be chief minister, will present a separate agriculture budget. This had also been announced by Telangana chief minister KCR, but was not done as there reportedly was no constitutional provisions for it. KTR, however, did not point this out in his series of tweets.
 
 The BJP has also allocated Rs 5,000 crore under the “Raitha Bandhu Market Intervention Fund” to support farmers during price fluctuations. Under the ‘Rythu Bandhu’ scheme of Telangana, Rs 12,000 crore has been allocated as investment support at the rate of Rs 8,000 per acre for farmers.
 
