CHENNAI: For most disabled people, public transport is not a happy travel option. Lack of suitable ramps, wheelchairs, lifts and an insensitive crowd make it impossible for them to board trains or buses. However, this might all change for the better, as the first step towards making trains more accessible was made last week when the   got a special ramp and wheelchair. 

 Manufactured in   by  , the ramp is specially designed to fit into the entrance of any coach. The wheelchairs are also made to fit the size of coaches, giving the user the freedom to enter any coach.
 
 While this is just one of many thousand trains that traverse the country, it is a step towards making the country and its facilities more inclusive. Following the lead of the Guntur division, several others like   and Thiruvananthapuram have expressed interest in using the contraption.
 
 Driven by the efforts of a sponsor, railway stations on the Chennai-Tirunelveli sector (  and  ) might have such ramps and wheelchairs soon.
 
 All this started when  , founder, Callidai Motor, received a phone call from a railway officer a few weeks ago. "The divisional railway manager (DRM), Guntur, VG Bhooma asked for a solution to make the trains accessible. She wanted it to be done as soon as possible. We were more than happy to work with someone who took this matter seriously," said Sundaram.
 
 We hope to have one ramp and a few wheelchairs at every platform in the 70-odd stations in the Guntur division by this September. "If the passenger informs the railways about their arrival/departure along with their PNR details, the ramp will be ready," he said. 
 
 
 
 
 This is not the first time that Sundaram is engaging with the railways. Since 2004, Callidai has been talking to the railways and has supplied products to other arms like IRCTC and ICF in the past.
 
 Bhooma realised the crucial gap that passengers with mobility issues face when she saw copassenger boarding a train with great difficulty. “I was travelling from Central to Guntur for work when I saw an old lady who had to be bodily lifted and taken inside the coach. That’s when I felt that something had to be done,” she said. In search for an end to end solution, she reached out to Sundaram. Within a weeks’ time, prototypes were made ready and taken to Guntur to show the DRM. The requirements when it comes to train accessibility are very specific. Since we have supplied wheelchairs for flight operators like Air India, we were able to use our prior knowledge and design this one quickly, says Sundaram. “Generally, differently-abled people prefer to to book seats in the coach allocated for them. These coaches are designed to suit their needs. However, if they wish to travel with their family, it becomes difficult as the regular coaches are not built to their requirements,” he said. The ramp is built to fit the entrance of any coach and will enable pushing the wheelchair into the coach. The foldable wheelchair is light in weight and manoeuvrable which will help the differently–abled passenger to move easily in the narrow aisles of all coaches. “We designed the ramp to be a user friendly one so it takes 20 seconds to fit or remove it,” he said.
 
 Bhooma says at least one person has been using the ramp everyday since its launch. “As of now we have one ramp that is kept in the train so the user will have it in whichever station they need to disembark at. The ideal situation will be when every station in India is equipped with this facility,” she said.
 
 
 
