KOLKATA: Days after TOI revealed that the average   time in Kolkata has increased from 10 days to 35, Kolkata Police commissioner Rajeev Kumar asked individual divisions to try and bring down the duration.

 
 In his meeting with  , the top cop stressed on improving the police’s image by making an effort to complete the job faster.
 
 Among the measures suggested by the top brass are ensuring that cops use the mPassport Seva mobile app efficiently, taking weekly stock of the situation, appointing more constables to work in tandem with the passport officer (along with managing law and order duties) and ensuring that the officer documents his findings immediately.
 
 “The commissioner has been urging us to cut down the waiting time ever since he took charge,” an officer posted in the east division said. He had raised the point when he met the central division officers for a conference a few days ago. Nine police stations in the division were among the first in Kolkata to use the mPassport Seva app. The app helps cops file a police verification report (PVR) on the spot. All divisions now routinely use this app, along with the Bidhannagar police.
 
 
  
 
 When Kumar took charge as commissioner, he designated a nodal passport verification officer at every police station, apart from the centralized team under the deputy commissioner, security control. This dramatically improved Kolkata Police’s record in filing verification reports, bringing it down to around 7-10 days. “But the system went haywire when new areas from South 24 Parganas were brought under the jurisdiction of Kolkata Police, without sanction of additional manpower,” an officer said.
 
 Several residents have claimed that in most cases, the applicants are summoned to police stations for verification directly, in contravention to norms.
 
 Samridhhi Sengupta, a resident of Bijoygarh, said, “This often leads to harassment of the applicant. Many, especially women, are intimidated by these visits to police stations.” She added that the police often fail to call to fix an appointment and turn up at their doorstep when the applicant is not at home.
 
 The cops denied any “organized effort” to harass the public, but said they are open to investigate individual cases.
 
 
