Mumbai: After the controversial rooftop policy was approved by the BMC chief in November last year, 14 eateries—including 1Above in Kamala Mills which was gutted last month—sought permission to serve patrons on open terrace, TOI has learned. With no policy in place till then, no eatery in Mumbai was allowed to serve patrons on a terrace.

 While two restaurants—Four Seasons in Worli and Peninsula Grand in Andheri—have received the go-ahead, the application of London Taxi, in Kamala Mills, has been rejected. TOI has a copy of the list. Seven of the applications have been filed by eateries in G South ward, which comprises Kamala Mills, where two rooftop eateries were gutted on December 29, killing 14. The applications of 11 others, including Sea Palace Hotel at Colaba and Escobar at Bandra, are under process, an official said. 
 
 Civic chief Ajoy Mehta had given his approval to the rooftop policy on November 2 last year. On November 10, the BMC’s public health department issued a circular laying down guidelines for granting permission. According to the circular, only buildings with an occupation certificate and an existing eating house can be allowed to have rooftop eateries.
 
 BMC executive health officer Dr Padmaja Keskar said, “We have received 14 applications from eateries seeking permissions under the rooftop policy. However, many are still in process.”
 
 An official from BMC’s G south ward said, “We received seven applications. The application of London Taxi has been rejected, while the others are in process.” 1 Above which was gutted in the fire had also applied to the BMC for permission to allow them to operate on the rooftop even while were already serving patrons on the rooftop.
 
 Meanwhile, Samajwadi Party leader in BMC Rais Shaikh said there is no point banning rooftop restaurants in Mumbai. “Even if there are no permissions, rooftop restaurants continue to operate. Therefore, it is better that the compliance is made strict. The BMC’s rooftop policy is drafted in a way that it’s completely safe if eating houses adhere to the rules,” said Shaikh.
 
 
