GURUGRAM: Seven persons, including six Turkmenistani  , were arrested in the early hours of Thursday for allegedly misbehaving with and thrashing a woman sub-inspector when she asked for their   and visas during a patrol check on  .

 
 The accused have been produced in a city court and sent to judicial custody, while the Turkmenistani   has also been informed,   said.
 
 The accused have been identified as Turkmenistani nationals Jemila Orunbayew, Shahlo Turayera, Rita Sadiyiyeva, Mahriban Sayipova, Sabina Aydemir and Vradiy Mugjagul and their driver Pankaj Tomar, a resident of Paharganj in New Delhi.
 
 Probationer sub-inspector (PSI) Suman, along with six other cops, was deployed on a barricade near Sikanderpur Metro station on MG Road for a patrol check on Wednesday night. Around 2.30am on Thursday, a black Maruti Eeco, coming from the Iffco Chowk side, was signalled to stop for checking. When PSI Suman approached the vehicle, she saw that six women, all foreigners, were sitting inside, while a local was driving. 
 
 She asked the foreigners to produce their passports and visa, but they failed to present the required documents and instead started misbehaving with her, cops said. The women came out of the car and allegedly thrashed her, tearing her uniform in the process. The other police officers present took them into custody and called another police team.
 
  PSI Suman filed a complaint and all the seven persons were arrested.
 
 “I was on duty in sub-inspector Manjusha’s team when we stopped the van. When I sought their passports and visas, they started misbehaving with me, and later with the other cops on duty as well. Two of the women manhandled me and even tore my uniform. After this, we took them into custody,” PSI Suman said in her complaint.
 
 On the basis of her complaint, an FIR was registered on Thursday morning against all seven accused under sections 323 (causing hurt), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant) and 186 (obstructing public servant) of the IPC and relevant sections of the Foreigners Act at DLF 2 police station.
 
 “All the six foreigners came to India on tourist visas and were staying in Delhi. On Wednesday night, they had come to Gurugram to visit some pubs. During the patrol check, they couldn’t produce their passports and visas when asked,” said inspector Gaurav Phogat, SHO of DLF 2 police station.
 
 “We have added relevant sections of the Foreigners Act to the FIR and informed the embassy concerned. The accused were produced in a city court and sent to judicial custody on Thursday afternoon,” he added.
 
 
