NEW DELHI: The night   complex next to the   ISBT presents the story of the homeless in the capital in its full spectrum. 

 A brand new floor was added to the porta cabin recovery shelter recently by DUSIB to address the demand for more space. Inside, TOI found an 80-year-old woman and her ailing son in a huddle and wrapped in blankets. Nearby, a group of streetchildren presented a skit on substance abuse. The family shelter was teeming with life as was the one for men. Outside, under the flyover, people were tucked in too, some trying to derive warmth from bonfires on the coldest day of the season. 
 
 DUSIB’s website shows that the number of night shelter users is growing. The last update on the evening of January 1 showed that in the 257 shelters—83 in permanent buildings, 115 in porta cabins, 58 in tents and one in a subway—the occupancy was 13,181 on the night of December 31. The shelters can take in 20,534. 
 
 Yet there are many who are still on the streets, under flyovers and traffic signals. A family was seen camped on a traffic island precariously, trying to fit into a tent for the homeless. Before the beautification drive, they used to live under the flyover. Most either beg or do odd-jobs. 
 
 Inside the recovery shelter managed by NGO Society for Promotion of Youth and Masses, a daily wager named Mahinder Singh Sagar was found lying under a blanket. He said he was comfortable inside the shelter, which has thick blinds and blowers too, after having lived on the streets for over 15 years. This has space for 37 people, and TOI found 17 patients recovering from mostly accident-related injuries. 
 
 The children group presenting the skit had 10-year-old Mohd   in it. He lives at a night shelter in Nizamuddin. But on Monday, he played a drug addict. Waheeda (14) played his teacher who weans him off drugs by educating him. 
 
 “Duniya ka kooda main uthaun, duniyan ka jootha main khaun, galiyon se niklu toh kutte bhonkey...kya mere liye kabhi koi pathshala banegi? (I lift the world’s garbage, eat the leftovers, barked at by dogs, will there ever be a school for me?)” Bilal said his lines rather powerfully. Children around him enjoyed it. That they could relate to what he said showed the heartrending reality of life on the street. 
 
 Some of the children sat without sweaters, a few were barefeet, but the chill couldn’t dampen their spirit as they sang, danced and twirled to the thumping of drums by Rehaan (10), who studies in Class III at a municipal school. The boy used to live at a night shelter in Nizamuddin that was demolished last year. He now lives with his mother and sister at another night shelter in the same area. Drumming has made him quite popular among the children. 
 
 At 7.30pm, the family shelter was already packed. It’s home to families working as daily wagers or relatives of patients who have run out of money. Blankets were spread and belongings aligned to mark out spaces for at least 40 families caught in the struggle for survival. Outside, there were families crowding around fires to cook a meal.
 
 
