JAIPUR: Jagdish Kadela, farmer and property dealer of Meglasiya village in Jodhpur district was in the state capital on Wednesday, to describe the violence that had been unleashed on his team near the Jodhpur collectorate on April 2. Displaying the purple bruises on his shoulder, he said he was so badly thrashed with lathis that he could scarcely breathe. The group of protesters had gathered outside the collectorate to   changes made to the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989 by a Supreme Court order of March 20. 

 At a press conference on Wednesday, representatives of political parties and civic groups announced that they would observe the birth anniversary of Bhimrao Ambedkar on April 14 as a day of protest against the oppression of Dalits; on April 17, protesters will gather at collectorates to press for the restoration of the 1989 Act.
 
 “I spent three days in hospital. They beat me so badly that I could barely breathe. Afraid I might die, they did not let me leave the police station. I was only admitted to hospital the next day, on April 3, and spent three days in hospital. I went to get an FIR filed in the matter, but police declined to accept my complaint,” Kadela told TOI on the sidelines of a press conference at the Mazdoor Kisan Bhavan. 
 
 Sanjay Madhav of the CPI-M said, “The government must drop charges against the innocent people who have been framed and release them from jail. The Dalits were marching peacefully – from different parts of the state, people associated with groups like the Karni Sena disturbed the peace and set off the violence. The police, however, is acting only against Dalits. To help the oppressed communities overcome fear and gain in confidence, leaders are going to visit different parts of the state that were roiled in violence. We saw how, in Hindaun City of  , even a legislator’s house was burned. The government must offer Rs50 lakh compensation to the dead, and a government job to one of the kin of the dead.”
 
 Bhanwar Meghwanshi of People’s Union for Civil Liberties said, “We have one instance of a man called Roshan Mundetiya, against whom police have registered a case in Jaipur, and also in Neem Ka Thana. Is it possible for one man to travel that distance and make such a nuisance across such distances?”
 
 Kailash Meena of Neem Ka Thana said, “Of the 24 people lodged in jail after that day, three are teachers at colleges. At least 10 bikes of Dalits were burnt. One family, where two girls had committed suicide after rape about a year ago, was targeted and the older sister had to hide from police. Women who had been campaigning against the local liquor vend were charged. All those Dalits who were a little vocal in raising their voices for their rights are the ones at the receiving end.”
 
 Dalit leader Dharmendra Jatav said, “Faith in government is eroding because of all this. The SC/ST Act was the one hope of justice for a section of society deprived across generations.”
 
  said, “We are cremated at different sites even today, our drinking water sources are different from those of upper castes even today. Now, there is a movement to stop reservation in education and jobs. What the Constitution of India grants us is resented, and the move is to take it back.”
 
 At Merta City, Nagaur, the local police on April 9 wrote to the block primary education officer seeking information – names, designation, mobile numbers -- of those who had taken the day off on April 2. Dalits fear that this is another means of targeting those involved in the protest. “For a Dalit, a government job is a huge source of upward social mobility. By taking punitive action against those in government service, authorities are trying to strike at the leadership within the community,” Kailash Meena said.
 
 SP Paris Deshmukh of Nagaur said, “Panic has been created by this letter, which is not right. It is not as if all those in government service will find themselves charged. We are looking at video footage to identify people. It is not right to create panic about this letter.”
 
 
