CHANDIGARH: Looking at the service sector’s 50% contribution to Punjab’s gross state domestic product (GSDP), the state government plans to develop the Zirakpur-Tepla- Rajpura belt as a logistics and warehousing hub. This will boost the development of   as an industrial hub.

 In Mohali’s periphery, the state government is also going to build an   at Rajpura on 1,000 acres under the Amritsar-Kolkata Industrial Corridor (AKIC). Rajpura is also being developed as a knowledge hub. In its industrial policy of 2017, the state government has also committed to building cargo logistics centre or custom-bonded warehousing in future industrial estates.
 
 Zirakpur’s strategic location as the intersecting point on the Shimla-Delhi-Patiala highway makes the state government believe that it can grow as a natural hub for warehousing. Zirakpur already has many warehousing and logistics units that serve the industrial units of the region.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 The Punjab industries and commerce department considers Punjab a net consuming state, so after the implementation of the goods and services tax (GST), the warehousing sector is poised for an enormous expansion. Punjab industry and commerce secretary   said: “This will encourage the hub-and-spoke model of warehousing. The Zirakpur-Tepla-Rajpura belt can be a primary logistics and warehousing hub for the catchment areas of Punjab, Shimla, Baddi, and Delhi.” The state government will give infrastructure support for the development of this belt.
 
 The state government also plans to build a dedicated logistics development cell manned by professionals. The cell’s task will be to attract investors and executing the broad strategy for the development of a logistics hub. Mohali Industries Association general secretary and Synergy Metals director   says that until Punjab develops Mohali and Chandigarh as a railway hub like Ludhiana for the transportation of raw material and finished products, industrialists’ concerns will not be addressed. “We may have a dry port at Dappar (in Derabassi) but it helps only domestic transportation. It should also develop the export facility,” Gupta says.
 
 
 
 The Punjab government has assured the central government of building an Integrated Manufacturing Cluster (IMC) at Rajpura, in Mohali’s neighbourhood, under the Amritsar-Kolkata Industrial Corridor (AKIC) on 1,000 acres. The   ( ) has identified 206 acres for the first phase of the IMC, while the department of rural development has issued the orders for the transfer of 206 acres for a consideration amount of Rs 33.32 lakh per acre.
 
 Officials of the state industries department say that the central government will provide funds for the development of land to match the cost of acquisition by the state. Punjab is also expected to benefit, as the central government plans laying   (EDFC) through the state.
 
 Mohali Industries Association president and Ardisons Associates director Gagan Chhabra says: “The Amritsar-Kolkata Industrial Corridor is welcome but it has been delayed due to bureaucratic hurdles. In such a situation, industrialists will lose interest.” He suggests developing any industrial or logistics hub, and says the state government should consider giving concession in land price to entrepreneurs.
 
