KOLKATA: Kolkata Police is planning to counsel medical and engineering students in the city after recent arrests of peddlers revealed cases of drugs getting supplied to certain hostels. A section of teachers and students at medical colleges, however, believes alcoholism was a now a bigger problem on campuses and hostels and   has declined. 

 In the first phase, cops have plans to reach out to students residing at medical college hostels. Sources said police are soon going to moot a proposal in this regard before the administration of some specific medical colleges. The second phase will see cops addressing engineering students. 
 
 “The plan is to keep every stakeholder in the loop about the alarming development. We will finalize our action plan and block the dates only after we receive a green signal from the colleges,” said a senior officer at Lalbazar.
 
 Counselling students, though, is not new for the cops. At present, the narcotics cell organizes awareness campaigns by roping in hundreds of school and college students. But this will probably be the first time that the police are thinking of including medical students in their drive against drugs. Besides narcotics cell officers, a DC-level officer is expected to address the students.
 
 According to Lalbazar sources, recent arrests show around 4kgs of cannabis reach the students each month. Heroin, too, remains a major draw in the city. “Kolkata might not be a big player as far as party drugs are concerned, but these traditional drugs are still a big draw,” claimed a police source. 
 
 The claim is disputed by teachers and students. “Drug abuse has been on the wane since mid-Nineties. There have been stray cases, but it is not rampant. Alcohol, though, is a bigger issue on campuses,” said Diptendra Sarkar, head of the breast cancer unit at the IGMER.
 
 A senior teacher at a government medical college pointed out that even though cannabis is common at hostels, use of harder drugs has been rare. “I have spoken to students at length about this and have found out that they were now more into alcohol. Drugs like heroin are rarely used on campus,” he said.
 
 
