CHENNAI: Bereft of  , the Greater   has pushed the onus of preparing the city’s major bus route roads ahead of the 2019   (GIM), scheduled to be held in January next year, onto the  . The civic body wants a funding solution to be discussed during the upcoming budget session of the state assembly if the government wishes to present a spruced up Chennai to foreign investors, according to corporation sources.

 At least 75 of the 471 bus route roads in the city were relaid in 2015, at a cost of over Rs 300 crore by the city corporation, the same year the first edition of GIM was held here. However, the corporation has assessed that most of the roads relaid in 2015, are nearing the end of its life. 
 
  Another contributing factor to road damage is digging up of roads by Metrowater, TNEB and private telecom firms, which has left its impact on arterial stretches like Nungambakkam High Road, Sardar Patel Road and Venkatnarayana Road. 
 
 The damage to city roads prompted administrators to think about the need of a revamp. But planning immediately hit a roadblock when the corporation broached the subject with the government. “In 2015, the corporation could afford to bear a decent share of the cost that it took to relay the bus route roads from its own pocket. That wouldn’t be possible now,” said a corporation source. The corporation’s financial crisis has been well-documented. The civic body’s overdraft ceiling was raised multiple times, which now stands at over Rs 400 crore, in order to pay salaries for staffers. “Any road relaying project of a massive scale can only happen with funds from the (state) government. We are waiting to see if there would be any announcement in this regard during the budget session,” said a senior corporation official.
 
 The timing of GIM too is undesirable, sources said. “Even in the case of us securing funds, we cannot execute the work during October-December 2018 due to monsoon. If the city faces a severe spell of rainfall, then we will have a very small window to repair   before GIM,” a source with the road department told TOI.
 
 
