BENGALURU: Seeking to strike a chord with urban voters who are considered to be his party’s traditional supporters,   national president   on Thursday turned the poll campaign Bengaluru-centric by touching upon the city’s perennial problem of traffic congestion.

 
 Coming down heavily on the Siddaramaiah-led government, accusing it of doing little to solve the traffic issue, Shah, at an interaction with businessmen and professionals from across domains, said the development of Karnataka has been stuck in the Bengaluru’s slow moving traffic.
 
 “Bengaluru is a growth engine and an effective platform that the government could have built into a global destination. But the   government has spoilt the city. It has not done anything to ease the traffic congestion. The development of Karnataka has been stuck in the Bengaluru traffic,” said Shah.
 
 He said BJP brought the metro train to the city which has reduced the traffic congestion to some extent but the Congress had not done any thing to take it forward.
 
 He called upon the people of Bengaluru to give an overwhelming majority to BJP in the May 12 assembly polls by enabling it to win all 28 seats in the city. “Let the tsunami begin from Bengaluru,” he said.
 
 Pointing at BJP state president BS Yeddyurappa, who arrived after filing his nomination from Shikaripur, Shah said the Yeddyurappa-led government would make Karnataka a model state.
 
 Turning his focus on corruption, Shah said chief minister Siddaramaiah never feels ashamed of his corrupt image; in fact, he wore it as a medal of honour.
 
 “I see many in this audience are affluent, but let me ask how many of you can afford to wear a wrist watch worth Rs 40 lakh? Siddaramaiah wears it. He does not feel ashamed about corruption, but he wears it as a medal of honour,” he said.
 
 “We have been asking him who gave the watch? Why did they give it to him? We have not got the answer to our questions as yet,” Shah said.
 
 Turning his ire on AICC president  , who had criticised the Centre for not waiving farm loan, Shah said the Congress leader does not know anything about banking.
 
 “The other day, I was watching him on TV, addressing farmers. He was telling them that the Centre had waived loans of industrialists but failed to waive farm loans. Instead of misleading the country by telling lies, let him show one instance of waiver of any loan availed by an industrialist,” he said.
 
 “Rahul Baba does not know the difference between NPA (non-performing assets) and loan waiver,” he said, adding Rahul could not even pronounce Sir M Visvevaraya’s name during a recent visit.
 
 Asserting that BJP will win and form the government, Shah posed a question to the audience: “Will the JD(S) win?” The audience roared ‘No’.
 
