It is a tale of two libraries. One set up at the height of the British Raj 170 years ago, the other a year after the Independence.

 Both have not just managed to survive in the rapidly changing world of computers and e-readers, but have also thrived under the patronage of bibliophiles even as most libraries are shutting shop.
 
 
 
 
 
 One of the reasons for their survival is that they have evolved with the times. While the older library — Pune Nagar Vachan Mandir on   — has already embraced digitisation, the 70-year-old Government Divisional Library at Vishrambaug Wada is in the process of doing so.
 
 This apart, the libraries are also trying hard to improve the services provided to members.
 
 To cater to its patrons living across the city, Pune Nagar Vachan Mandir even opened branches in Bibvewadi, Kothrud and Warje. “It is difficult for members living in different parts of the city to come to our library. So we decided to go closer to them,” said Arvind Ranade, secretary.
 
 For senior citizens, the library started a scheme called ‘Library At Your Doorstep’.
 
 “We offer the service for Rs 120 per month for one book. Readers can read two books for Rs 150 and three for Rs 180 each month. Every week, a library worker visits each member with 70-80 books. The member can either choose from these books or place a request over the telephone for a particular book,” added Ranade.
 
 The library also sends a list of books purchased in the last three months to its members. “A request can be placed on the basis of this list. Altogether, 100 members have enrolled in this scheme. We believe more will enroll if we publicise this scheme,” he said.
 
 Meanwhile, the Government Divisional Library promised a better experience to its members in the near future. It is in the process of moving to NV Gadgil School, a corporation school in Shaniwar Peth. “There is a space constraint. We don’t have a reading hall. But at the school, readers can expect better facilities,” said Subhas Rathod, librarian.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 The libraries hold a special place in the hearts of the city’s bibliophiles because of the massive and varied collections they boast of.
 
 “At the Government Divisional Library, we have around 3,59,419 books, most of them in Marathi. There are a few Hindi books as well. Moreover, we subscribe to 69 periodicals and 19 newspapers (English, Hindi and Marathi),” said Rathod. “ “We get all the latest books published in Marathi. Under the Press and Registration of Books Act, all publishers/writers must give a free copy of Marathi books published in the state to the divisional library,” he added.
 
 The Pune Nagar Vachan Mandir, meanwhile, has 70,000 Marathi books and 12,000 English books on a variety of subjects — health, astronomy, economics, mathematics, history, philosophy, drama, travel, politics, botany etc. Besides, there are books on competitive exams such as the UPSC, SSC etc. Each of its branches — Bibvewadi, Kothrud and Warje — to has a collection of about 6,000 books. “Whenever we get a request about any particular book, we immediately purchase it. It has never happened that we don’t have a book that has been recently launched in the market. We have such good relationship with suppliers that even before a book is launched, it is sent to us,” says Ranade.
 
 
 
 Not surprisingly then, neither of the libraries has faced a drop in membership. “The member count only drops if a member leaves Pune or passes away. Hardly anybody has ever withdrawn his/her membership,” said Ranade.
 
 At its main library on Laxmi Road, Pune Nagar Vachan Mandir has around 1,000 members. “We get at least new 10 membership requests every month. We have crossed the 700-member mark at the Bibvewadi branch, which was opened two-and-a-half years ago. At our Warje branch, there are around 500 members and we have around 100 members at the Kothrud branch,” Ranade said.
 
 On the other hand, the Government Divisional Library has around 12,440 members.
 
 “Every month, we get at least 40 to 50 new members. In December 2017, we got 23 new members,” said Rathod. A few years ago, the library had to stop issuing membership forms because there were just too many members.
 
 “In spite of earning very little from membership fees, we manage to buy books worth Rs 7-8 lakh every year. This is because of the rent we receive from two nationalised banks and the interest earned on the bank deposit. We have an annual income of Rs 60 lakh. You will rarely find any library earning so much,” said Ranade.
 
 
 
 In its efforts to modernise as well as store more books, Pune Nagar Vachan Mandir has decided to purchase a compactor. “It will result in 80% space savings. Each compactor can accommodate 30,000 books,” Ranade claimed.
 
 As part of future plans, the 170-year-old library intends to digitise a whopping two to three lakh pages this year. There are other plans too. The Pune Nagar Vachan Mandir intends to open branches at Sinhgad Road, Aundh and Vishrantwadi.
 
 Who said libraries are dying? At least, not in Pune.
 
