PUNE/ALAPPUZHA:  , former wife of   alias Javed Shaikh, the son of  , said on Friday that she will continue to fight the ‘fake encounter case’ till its logical end. 

 Sajida, who took a flight from Pune to Kerala after learning about Pillai’s death, told TOI over phone: “My father-in-law used to say we will have to continue fighting the case even if he passes away.”
 
 Javed was living with Sajida in Pune when he was shot by Gujarat police. Later, Sajida remarried. Speaking about her former husband’s father, Sajida said, “We had always maintained contact with him and other family members and would often talk to them over phone besides meeting each other occasionally. We met them in November last year. They used to come to Pune as well.”
 
 “Gopinatha Pillai wanted to prove his son’s innocence and he fought 14 years for it but had to leave the world without getting justice for his son,” said one of Pillai’s relative in Alappuzha. Pillai extended his full support to Javed after his marriage with Sajida, a Muslim girl from Maharashtra. After Pranesh was killed he demanded that the Gujarat government provide financial security to him and Javed’s three children and his wife. 
 
 In 2011 November, when the Gujarat high court observed that it no longer trusts the credibility of the state police, it was a big relief for him. Later, the case was handed over to the CBI. In the first chargesheet filed by the agency, seven police officers were named as accused. However, the case has been dragging since the NDA government came to power at the Centre,” the relative added. “Pillai bought a flat for Javed’s wife and her children at Pune and had been financially supporting him,” he said. 
 
 “Sajida and children were always keen to visit Alappuzha. My brotherallowed them to live according to Muslim beliefs at his home before and after Javed’s death,” said Madhavan Pillai, Gopinatha Pillai’s brother. Javed was Pillai’s youngest son. Gopinatha Pillai was staying with his son  , an autorickshaw driver.
 
 
