MUMBAI: The prime accused in the   executive   case on Sunday showed the crime branch police where her body was dumped on March 16, the day she was reported missing. Siddhesh Tamhankar, her subordinate and prime accused, allegedly told the investigators that he and the co-accused, Khushi Sahjwani, disposed of Kirti’s body in a nullah behind IMAX theatre in  . 

 Exploring various angles, an investigator said that a month before the murder, Kirti had issued a nonperformance memo to Tamhankar and he was directed to show improvement in his work by March 16. On that day, Tamhankar and Sahjwani reached MS Ali Road in Grant Road and waited outside Kirti’s building for almost 40 minutes, the call data record (CDR) of the accused showed. 
 
 
  
 
 “They did not call or text Kirti that they were there. They waited till Kirti stepped out of her home around 8.50am. Tamhankar offered lift to Kirti saying he wanted to discuss the notice she had issued to him,” said an investigator. An investigator said Tamhankar, who was in the rear seat, used a cloth to strangle her, while Sahjwani was driving the Ford Ecosport along a 2.4 km stretch from MS Ali Road in Grant Road, where the victim lived, to Saat Rasta at Jacob Circle. They then pushed the body into the boot by moving the rear seat. Later, Khushi left her vehicle in her building and took a public transport to office, sources said. 
 
 “Sahjwani left the vehicle in her building parking lot as Kirti’s body was in the boot. Tamhankar planned to dump the body at an isolated place in Wadala-Mahul stretch as he was familiar with the area having lived there till four years ago,” the investigator said. According to police, Sahjwani picked the SUV after returning from office and then the duo headed to Wadala Mahul Port locality where many refineries are located. 
 
 Sleuths say the duo dumped the body in a nullah and it might have flowed in to the sea during high tide or got stuck in mangroves. “We are gathering information from coastal police and other agencies about any body being found since March 16 ,” said a crime branch official.
 
