THIRUVANANTHAPURAM:  , accused of murdering his four family members, including parents, last year, was admitted to the intensive care unit of the Medical College Hospital here on Thursday after he was found semi-conscious in his prison cell. 

 It is suspected that food particles or saliva entered his lungs when he suffered a seizure, rendering him unconscious. 
 
 Cadell, an under trial prisoner in the   at  , was arrested for hacking to death his father  , mother Dr Jean Padma, sister Caroline and mother's aunt   in at his residence at Nanthencode. 
 
 The spokesperson of   said Cadell was brought to the hospital around 5.30am on Thursday. 
 
 "He behaved as if he is in altered sensorium (a medical condition characterized by impaired consciousness and inability to think). It was difficult to make out the things he said," the spokesperson said, adding that he exhibited signs of an epileptic seizure. The doctors suspect his condition was aggravated after some food particles or saliva drops, entered his lungs. 
 
 Central prison superintendent S Santhosh said it was the prison warden on night duty at the 10th block who found Cadell in a semi-conscious state in his cell around 4.20am. He was gasping for breath and foaming at the mouth. The prison officials took him to the medical college hospital in an ambulance. 
 
 "Since he was under treatment for mental illness, he was under special observation. His cell was close to the warden's duty room," Santhosh said. 
 
 Cadell was declared mentally unfit to face trial by a panel of doctors at the Government Mental Health Research Centre, Peroorkada, earlier. He had also undergone three months of treatment at the hospital as advised by the doctors.
 
 Cadell (29), had allegedly used a hatchet to kill his victims and later burned the bodies in his bathroom. This led to a fire outbreak, following which the murders came to light.
 
 Psychiatrists who treated him said he was taunted persistently for being an underachiever by his academically-brilliant family members and it led to his mental illness. 
 
 
