KOCHI: State government is planning to set up a   facility in all district hospitals. It has also asked all district hospitals and medical colleges to improve their geriatric wards. This has become a necessity as   is about to witness a demographic transition – rise in the aged population and a decline in the growth rate of population – that necessitates care for more people.

 “The end-of-life patients will be given care here. Geriatric wards within hospitals will follow hospice concept. At present, we plan to start the project in one district hospital soon and then replicate it in other districts. This will be done jointly by social justice and health departments,” said health minister  .
 
  
  
 
 Earlier, in his budget speech, finance minister   had said that steps will be taken to coordinate palliative care activities through primary health centres. He had said that special budget analysis for old age people will begin next year. Kerala’s total population as per the 2011 census was 3.36 crore, of which 12.6% were aged above 60. The state’s elderly population is growing at a perpetual rate of 2.3%. The growth rate is high among the elderly (aged 70 and above). If this trend continues, it will narrow down the proportion of young and old in between 2021 and 2031.
 
 Hospice care is end-of-life care that alleviates suffering and enables people to die in a dignified way, while palliative care is care that can be provided at any stage of a serious illness alongside a curative treatment plan. Just like hospice programmes, the geriatric ward will handle very sick patients who don’t have a caregiver. The staff will be trained on responding to pain crises.
 
 With   recently permitting passive euthanasia, doctors said that the government must strengthen both hospice facility and palliative care to help the terminally-ill. In the US, hospice benefits is provided to patients who aren’t expected to live more than six months. Those benefits include medications, equipment (such as hospital beds, wheelchairs, commodes and oxygen), home visits from nurses, chaplains and social workers, and other services for the patient and family members.
 
 So, the government besides setting up hospicelike facility is also identifying land to set up 70 day care homes for senior citizens in the initial phase. We have prepared a model to set up 300 such day care homes. “Initially in 14 districts, we will build one such care home,” said the minister.
 
 “It will be a place where senior, like-minded people can meet, eat, read and even play. The whole idea is that it is a place where they get together and communicate besides promoting healthy living. Also, we will ensure that the existing old age homes are renovated,” she added.
 
