Adnaan Rizvi

 Actress  , who was in Lucknow recently, shares a close bond with the city. Neetu, known for films like 'Garam Masala' and 'Traffic Signal', among others, hails from Patna but her mother belongs to Lucknow. 
 For her, Lucknow has much more to offer than just food and culture. "Mera bachpan Lucknow aur Kanpur mein hi beeta hai. My mother belongs to Lucknow and most of my maternal side of the family still resides in these two cities. So UP is like my second home," says Neetu, adding, "As a kid I used to visit my nani’s house very often and would stay there for a month or two. I got to celebrate a lot of festivals here, be it Diwali, Holi, Durga Puja, etc. Lucknow ke family connection ekdum atoot hote hain. Even if you meet a Lakhnawi after a long time, the love and warmth towards you is the same." She adds, "Even the neighbours here are very warm and caring. Their care and concern is just as much as one’s own family. Lucknow mein sab apne se lagte hain.:
 Talking about the city, Neetu says, "I know Lucknow like the back of my hand and I know there’s a lot more to this city than just food and chikan. Yahan ka culture and language are unparalleled." 
 Neetu recently acted in a video of the song Banjarey which has been written and composed by Lucknowite singer-writer-composer and bureaucrat, Anupama Raag. Ask her about the song and Neetu, says, "{Technically, Mumbai is more advanced than Lucknow, but in the field of writing, Lucknowites are impeccable. Yahan ke logon ki likhawat bahut hi umda hoti hai. If we talk about the movies made by UPites like Vishal Bhardwaj, Sudhir Mishra or  , they hold a different charm. Likewise, when I worked with  , it was a great experience. She, and the melodious voice of   saheb, made the song beautiful. Working with them was a very good experience. In fact we are planning another big project together which will be released on Valentine's Day."
 Hailing from  , Neetu has also ventured into production and her first Bhojpuri film 'Deswa', released in 2011, was shown in 16 international film festivals and became the first Bhojpuri film in 54 years, to be selected for Indian Panaroma at IFFI, Goa. The actress feels the image of Bhojpuri cinema needs to be changed. "I made a Bhojpuri film because it is my mother tongue. Bhojpuri cinema is considered to have double meaning and cheap dialogues these days, the kind of cinema I will never associate with. Bhojpuri is also the mother tongue of  ,   and other prominent personalities, who hail from Bihar. The kind of content shown in Bhojpuri cinema these days, builds a bad image of the language and the culture in front of the world. That's why we made 'Deswa' which can be watched by the youngest and the oldest member of a family. It is a step towards a change in the industry A change towards clean, entertaining Bhojpuri films. Bhojpuri cinema needs to be changed."
 While most of her colleagues have worked on shows of various channels, Neetu hosts the show 'Rangoli' which is aired on Doordarshan National. Claiming it as a move to stick to her roots, the actor says, “Doordarshan is our root channel jisse humne TV dekhna shuru kiya hai. But now no one wants to associate with it. Actors like  ,  , Prachi Shah have hosted the show previously, but now they wanted someone young, so I said yes to it. And that's because I want to be connected to the rural part of the country because woh log multiplex mein jaa ke, `500 kharch kar ke aapki film toh dekhne jayenge nahi. So if we really want to connect with our village folk and with our roots, then we need to promote these shows too. If you are a good actor you can do anything to entertain the audience -- be it a rural one or the urban one."
 — Adnaan Rizvi
 
 
