NEW DELHI: From next Tuesday, domestic flyers can use the Delhi   to reach   of  . With the   set to become operational,   ( ) has started installing signage and constructing a tiled pathway for passengers from the station named after the airport to the domestic arrival and departure terminals.

 In a recent report,   had reported the possibility of passengers having to walk with their luggage a distance of nearly 200 metres to reach 1D, the departure terminal, or to get to the metro station from 1C, the arrival terminal. The absence of signage made it confusing to determine the correct route connecting the Terminal 1-IGIA metro station with the two concourses. Also, the pathway was uneven and potholed. There also were obstructions on the paths that made towing luggage a tough task.
 
 DMRC, however, is now easing the way for travellers with the Janakpuri West-to-Kalkaji Mandir section of the Magenta Line, of which the airport station is a part, slated to open from May 29.
 
 These steps had been activated, as TOI found out on Wednesday on revisiting the airport. There was now a demarcated pathway with railings leading from the entry/exit gates of the metro station to the terminals. “Signage will also be put up inside the arrival terminal to guide passengers towards the metro station,” a DMRC official said. The work of installing tiles on the pathway was also under way.
 
 The official explained that the company had removed “all obstacles, such as bollards, from the path connecting the station with the terminals and installed adequate signage” to direct passengers to and from the metro station at the airport. DMRC also plans to deploy marshals to guide passengers.
 
 However, flyers planning to take the metro to the domestic terminals would be well advised to travel light because the usual baggage restrictions are applicable on the line. “We are not expecting people with heavy baggage, however,” said a DMRC official, “because domestic airlines too have restrictions on the weight of of permitted luggage.”
 
 The metro station has three entry/exit points, of which Gate 2 is closer to 1D and Gate 3 to 1C. Gate 1 is a bit further away from the concourses and is meant for airport and airlines employees or local residents.
 
 While the path from the arrival terminal to the metro station is direct and shorter at 140 metres, the one from the station to the departure terminal is a bit circuitous. “If passengers take the direct route from the metro station to the departure terminal, they would have to manoeuvre through vehicular traffic,” the DMRC spokesman explained. “But if they take a slightly longer route via the arrival terminal, the path should be free of obstacles.”
 
 The Terminal 1-IGIA metro station is more spacious in relation to other stations on the Magenta Line because DMRC expects a large number of domestic air passengers to use the   service.
  
  
 
