For the past three years, actress   has been settled in Bengaluru, turning extremely selective about her movie projects.

 Many asked her, “Won’t you miss out on good films if you are away in Bengaluru?” Rachana, however, paid no heed as she was not there to chill but to pursue an academic course, as part of her passion – kuchipudi. And the stint paid off too, with her securing the first rank in MA   in her university in Bengaluru, recently.
 
 The recognition was doubly sweet for Rachana, who has been learning the art form since Class 5. “My guru Thrissur Janardhanan master always tells me that performing mohiniyattam and kuchipudi suits my physique, the best.” She has other reasons too. “I am a hard-core Lord Krishna devotee and Guruvayoorappan is everything to me. Sidhendra Yogi, the father of Kuchipudi, was also the same and the art form is thus Krishna-oriented at its core,” says the Thrissur girl.
 
 While Rachana is more familiar to Malayalis as an actress and TV personality, it is dance that the artiste is most associated with. She recalls, “I started learning dance when I was three and a half years old under Kalamandalam Sreedevi teacher and performed for the first time on stage, when in Class 2. Then on, dance performances have been a major part of my life.”
 
 She started training in  , but gradually learnt other forms too. “When Sreedevi chechi left our place, I joined Thrissur Janardhanan mash’s class while I was in Class 4. Since then, I have been his disciple,” she says.
 
 Rachana has been a regular winner of Kalathilakam titles in school and college levels throughout her academics. She was also the State level Kalathilakam in Keralotsavam in 1998.
 
 “At one point, I felt the need to study kuchipudi further, academically as well,” recalls Rachana. When she mentioned it to her kuchipudi teacher Geetha Padmakumar, who is a disciple of maestro Vempati Chinna Satyam, she suggested that Rachana join Alliance University in Bengaluru. “I did a diploma course first, which I followed up with Masters under great gurus like our HOD Dr Vasanth Kiran. Now, I am planning to do a PhD from Sastra University, Thanjavur. I wish to do it under Padukka (Dr Padma Subramanyam). I have discussed it with her and is hoping things work out.”
 
 While Padma Subramanyam is a scholar specialising in Bharata Nritham, Rachana has her reasons to learn under her tutelage. “My MA thesis was about the need for notation system in dance. Padukka has done it in bharatanatyam but someone is yet to attempt that in kuchipudi. In Indian music or dance, we don’t have a script system that lets us record the execution of a dance performance in writing. However, in the West, there is a department itself called choreology. That’s what my studies are about and I want to connect it with Western ballet as well and do my bit to make kuchipudi globally popular,” says Rachana, adding that she also has a patent for the concept of writing kuchipudi dance.
 
 Meanwhile, she has been dabbling in choreography too and has 11 new compositions to her credit already. “One among that is a really fresh attempt called Brahma Kouthvam, in which indigenous taalas are used and music and lyrics are composed solely for that,” she explains.
 
 Rachana will also be turning choreographer for Vinod Mankara’s Tamil film Nithyasumangali, in which she is also an assistant director and actor. “The film is themed on the life of devadasis and Sadir, their form of dance that was the earlier form of bharatanatyam. When the system was abolished, the dance, which was accused of vulgarity, also faded into oblivion. I will be meeting a living devadasi called Muthukannamal in Veeralimalai soon, and making a documentary on her as part of preparing for the film,” she says.
 
 As for working as an AD in the film, Rachana says, “I wish to direct a movie too, especially animated films. I know it’s a different ball game, but I’m trying to understand the craft better by assisting filmmakers. I want to pursue it academically too.”
 
