CHENNAI: It is not for nothing that businesses which return rich dividends irrespective of external market forces are called cash cows. Much like the country’s most controversial animal, these models bring in profits (milk if you have the benevolent bovine) long after the investment has been recouped.

 While the dairy industry in the country is by and large unstructured, more dairy farms and processing industries have set up shop. Result? They are milking the cash cow(s). And in this setup, science has assumed significance with several colleges offering courses on food and dairy technology.
 
 Taking a leap in this were the veterinary universities. A common perception is that veterinary universities offer courses that cater only to the health and behaviour of domesticated animals. However, when the need for food processing or dairy technology arose, Tamil Nadu Veterinary
 
 and Animal Sciences University rolled out courses as part of its UG programmes with a syllabus designed to suit the industry needs.
 
 Tanuvas dean D Baskaran said, “For 40 seats in food technology and 20 in dairy technology, every year hundreds of applications are received by the college. This indicates the popularity of the courses.”
 
 “Those who intern at private dairy farms get a stipend of nearly Rs 6,000 a month. There is enormous scope for students,” Baskaran added.
 
 K Vetrivendhan, who graduated with a BTech in food technology, said he was offered a job soon after he completed an internship at a dairy farm in Kancheepuram.
 
 In a typical BTech course, students learn the process of obtaining milk and then testing it for the microbial content. Several milk factories use advanced processing methods like detailed packing and ultra-high temperatures to keep away the microbes. This helps in extending the expiry of the milk and providing a safer drinking option to the consumers.
 
 Students who enroll for food and dairy technology courses learn the trade through hands-on experience. They learn about storage of food material, preparation of food, its shelf life, texture, flavour and even presentation. Learning all these key issues help them understand the needs of the food industry or the dairy units.
 
 Apart from Tanuvas, food technology courses are offered by Anna University, Tamil Nadu Agriculture University and Indian Institute of Food Processing Technology, Thanjavur. All these government-run universities offer a four-year BTech course. The syllabus is designed by the  , which is followed in most of the government universities.
 
 Aspiring students who wish to take up food or dairy technology should have mathematics, physics, chemistry and biology in Class XII. “In these four subjects one should score totally more than 190 marks. Last year the lowest cut off mark in Tanuvas was 192,” Baskaran said.
 
 
