NEW DELHI:   on Tuesday suspended all routine surgeries till further orders. 

 The decision was taken to tide over impending crisis as resident   of the hospital have gone on indefinite   to protest   by attendants of a patient on two colleagues from surgery unit. 
 
 Lok Nayak is one of the biggest hospitals run by Delhi government. It sees a footfall of nearly 5,000 patients in OPD daily. Also, 100 major and minor surgeries are carried out daily in the hospital every day.
 
 “Some of the patients admitted for planned surgeries have been suggested to go home and come back,” said a doctor, adding that the residents are agitated over continued violence against doctors. In Tuesday’s incident, one doctor suffered severe injury to his nasal bone while another doctor’s hand was injured. 
 
 The incident took place around 2.30pm. The patient in question was admitted with pain in abdomen and had indications that surgery may be required.
 
 “ When doctors suggested shifting the patient to medicine unit, the attendants thought we were discharging her and started arguing. Then, 10-12 people came in and assaulted the junior and senior resident doctors,” Dr Ankur Sharma, general secretary, Resident Doctors’ Association (RDA) of Maulana Azad Medical College and associated hospitals, said. 
 
 He added that the residents have decided to remain on strike until an institutional FIR is lodged against the culprits and the administration assures them to beef up   measures.
 
 Resident doctors of G B Pant hospital and Guru Nanak Eye Centre, two other hospitals associated with MAMC, are supporting the strike and they may also stay away from duty, said the RDA general secretary. 
 
 Dr J C Passey, medical director of Lok Nayak hospital, issued a circular following the strike call on Tuesday informing heads of all departments to make arrangements to run OPD and indoor as usual while elective OT services will remain suspended till further orders. “The residents on strike are, however, available for emergency services,” the circular said.
 
 Dr Vivek Chouksey, president, Federation of Resident Doctors’ Association of India (FORDA), said if the demands were not met in 48 hours, they will shut down healthcare services across the state. This is not the first instance of violence against doctors. In the past few years, several such incidents have taken place leading to strike followed by assurances but nothing changes on the ground. 
 
 
