NEW DELHI: If you missed peak winter chill this January, here’s the reason why. In the absence of adequate rain and snow in north India, the average day temperature during the month was 1.7 degrees higher than normal, making it the warmest   in Delhi in 12 years if day conditions are considered.

 The average maximum temperature in January this year was a   22.2 degrees Celsius, with day temperatures remaining higher than normal on as many as 23 days of the month. The city last saw warmer daytime conditions in January in 2006, when the average maximum was slightly higher at 22.4 degrees C, the warmest in 25 year.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 This year, therefore, saw the second warmest day conditions in January in a quarter century.
 
 “There was just a single spell of rain and snow in north India during the entire month whereas three wet spells are normal. As a result, we had mainly clear skies over Delhi this January, which raised day temperatures,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, head of IMD’s Regional Weather Forecasting Centre here.
 
 The absence of snow also meant that winds sweeping in from the north weren’t the usual icy northwesterlies that bring chill into the region, Srivastava said.
 
 A look at weather conditions in recent years tells the story of just how warm the past month was. In 2015, for instance, the average maximum January temperature was 17.9 degrees C, more than 4 notches below this year's average. In the past two Januarys, which too were warmer than normal, the average maximums were 21.6 and 21.1 degrees C, respectively. The coldest January in the past 25 years (in terms of day conditions) was in 2003, when the average maximum was just 17.6 degrees C.
 
 However, nights were far from warm this January. The clear skies that raised day temperatures during the month allowed heat to dissipate into the atmosphere at night, making nights colder than normal.
 
 The average minimum temperature was a shade lower than 7 degrees C, around 0.5 degrees below normal. In fact, it was the lowest average minimum temperature in January in five years. 
 
 “The nights were mostly clear and hence cold. Northerly winds blew for most of the month. While these helped keep temperatures low, the winds were not chilly enough for extreme cold conditions to set in,” Srivastava said.
 
 The lowest temperature during the month was 4.2 degrees C on January 6. By contrast, the lowest January temperature in recent years was 1.9 degrees C, recorded on January 18, 2013.
 
