MAHISADAL/MUMBAI: A 32-year-old man from East Midnapore in Bengal was arrested for allegedly calling up at an ex-cricketer's Bandra home and office 25 times over the last week. The man has claimed that he was in love with the cricketer's 20-year-old daughter and threatened to kidnap her if they are not married.

 Parents of Debkumar Maity said that he was mentally unstable and is under medication. The   arrested Maity on Saturday and booked him for stalking, molestation and criminal intimidation. On Sunday, he was flown to the city on a transit remand. He will be produced before a court on Monday or Tuesday, said the police.
 
 "He would call up and say 'woh meri hai... agar koi mujhe usse milne nahi dega to main use kidnap kar lunga (She is mine... if someone stops me from meeting her, I will kidnap her). The calls were answered by domestic help and office staff. The man would ask the staff for the girl's mobile number or to pass on the phone to her," said the police .
 
 A source said the last call was made on January 2 and on Friday, the ex-cricketer's personal assistant lodged a complaint. Since Maity made a few calls from his cellphone, the Mumbai police had no difficulty in tracking him down. They alerted the Mahisadal police station in whose jurisdiction Maity lives. Around 1.30am on Saturday, Mahisadal cops picked him up and in the evening, Bandra police station officers arrested him. Maity, has tattooed the girl's name on his arm.
 
 "Maity told the police yhat he loves the girl and wants to marry her. He got the numbers from a relative in Mumbai," said an officer from   police station.
 
 Maity, a Class X dropout, has said he first saw the girl on TV when she was at Wankhede Stadium for a test match in 2013. "He said it was love at first sight," said the officer, adding that Maity has several photographs of the girl, has sketched her and that his phone is filled with her pictures.
 
 Maity's mother said since four years, he has been talking about the girl and had said he wanted to marry her. "In 2010, he had a break-up and since then he became eccentric. He is a painter but stopped work," said his mother Kanaklata. She said Maity would often get violent. "Last year, he burnt down his bike in a fit of rage." She showed a December 20 prescription by a psychiatrist who was treating him.
 
 
