LUDHIANA: The recent resolution passed by the MC general house regarding regularisation of permanent encroachments made by shopkeepers in   has been challenged by a city-based RTI activist. He has claimed that it is a violation to the orders passed by Punjab and Haryana high court in civil writ petition 4886 of 2003. He has made a complaint with the principal secretary and director of local bodies department.

 The MC house in a recent meeting on March 30 had passed this resolution to regularise the encroachments in the Chaura Bazaar market. Previously too, former Mayor   had sent this agenda to the local bodies department for approval on March 18, 2016. But, it got rejected on November 22, 2016. 
 
 Again on March 20, 2017, former mayor Gohalwaria sent a request letter to director local bodies department for review of this decision. This was rejected on April 10, 2017. Even the MC commissioner   requested the additional chief secretary, department of local government to review the decision on December 6, 2017. 
 
 In the complaint, it has been mentioned that the high court had restrained the state government from regularising unauthorised encroachments and constructions in directions passed on February 10, 2004. 
 
 The activist Rohit Sabharwal said in the representation it has been mentioned that the encroachments in   cannot be regularised as they have been identified as permanent encroachments and in this regard, the MC has already filed the status report by way of affidavit in HC. He said the authorities should not approve this resolution in view of the above facts. 
 
 Meanwhile, when contacted, mayor Balkar Sandhu said the MC house has passed this resolution for the betterment of the shopkeepers and they have forwarded the same for government approval. Now, the government will see whether this agenda will get approval or not., he added.
 
 Notably, according to the MC records, there are over 300 encroachments in the market starting from Clock Tower Chowk to   on both sides of the road. The civic officials had tried conducting demolition drive in the market. But, they could not raze the structures as they could not get a police force to help them out. 
 
 
