 (cleared/ Gopa) Kanyakumari: Union minister of state for railways Rajen Gohain on Tuesday laid the foundation stones for three crucial doubling and electrification works in the state which would ensure seamless connectivity with Chennai besides augmenting rail travel in the region.  The projects, worth Rs. 3,618 crore, would be undertaken on Madurai – Vanchi Maniyachchi – Tuticorin, Vanchi Maniyachchi – Tirunelveli – Nagercoil and Kanyakumari – Nagercoil – Thiruvananthapuram sections. The minister also inaugurated passenger amenities at the Nagercoil Junction. “Only 25 kilometres of doubling remains to be completed on the Madurai-Chennai route. It will be completed this year. With the three doubling projects sanctioned, all major routes from Chennai to Kanyakumari via Madurai and back and via Thiruvananthapuram will become fully electrified double tracks in three to four years,” Gohain said. The minister said that doubling with electrification projects would provide a faster rail mode alternative, hassle-free rail transportation of men and material and seamless connectivity between Tamil Nadu and Kerala. He said 90 per cent of the total track kilometres had been electrified. “This year we are electrifying Erode-Karur-Trichy route. Within three years, routes in Southern Railway (SR) will be electrified,” the minister added. Without mentioning the year he said that Rs 185.5 crore had been spent on doubling of railways lines, Rs 285.2 crore on gauge conversions, Rs 42.7 crore on new lines and Rs 140.20 crore on road over and under bridges in Tamil Nadu. He also said that 84 escalators and 61 lifts had been commissioned and work was in progress for 32 escalators and 26 lifts. This year Southern Railway (SR) had spent Rs 45 crore for improving passenger amenities. An additional Rs 75 crore was being allotted to SR this year to complete the ongoing passenger amenity works. Efforts taken by railways had reduced the number of complaints received from passengers in SR this year, compared to last year. Southern Railway was the first among all zonal railways to reduce complaints, the minister said. Gohain said that the provision of video surveillance at 136 stations under Nirbhaya funds had been entrusted to RailTel. On a trial basis it was done at the Nungambakkam railway station in Chennai and will soon begin at other stations. Wi-Fi was available at 24 stations of Southern Railway which would go up to another 29 stations by the end of this year. Efforts were on to install bio toilets in all coaches in the Manamadurai – Virudhunagar, Manamadurai – Mayavaram and Manamadurai – Trichy corridors by December 2018. Toilets in the ground floor and ‘May I help you booth’ for the benefit of differently-abled passengers had been established at eight A1, 40 A and 20 B category stations. By the end of this fiscal year, all 76 A, B and C category stations would have this facility, he added. Union minister of state for shipping and finance Pon Radhakrishnan said that the three doubling and electrification projects were fully funded by Government of India, considering the financial condition of Tamil Nadu. He said that such projects were usually executed with 50 per cent funding from the state governments. However, special sanction was obtained to ensure that the growth of the southern districts was not jeopardised due to inadequate funds, he added. State minister for information and publicity Kadambur Raju also spoke on the occasion.