BENGALURU: Stung after an employee of a private firm labelled them “useless” in a post on social media, city police swung into action in a bid to nab four men who had allegedly   a 24-year-old woman and roughed up her colleagues.

 In his post on  , Arjun  , the victim’s colleague, said he and some of his colleagues were returning to work in  , Old Airport Road when one of the four men — believed to be inebriated since they were standing outside a bar — groped his colleague. The incident occurred on Saturday afternoon.
 
 Nandkumar claims that when he called the police control room, the police allegedly told him to “please hold the miscreants till we arrive”. With women’s safety being in the spotlight following the rapes in Kathua and Unnao, Nandkumar’s post became hugely popular on social media, with several other members condemning the police for their callous attitude.
 
 Although no complaint has been filed, police on Monday launched a hunt for the four drunks, and a team was dispatched to check CCTV footage in the area.  , deputy commissioner of police (East), said, “We request the victim or her colleagues to approach the police at the earliest. We promise immediate action.”
 
 JB Nagar police said they contacted Nandkumar and requested him to file a complaint. “Nandkumar says he requires permission from his office to file a complaint,” a police officer said. “He said he would bring the victim to the station on Tuesday.”
 
 Police say a Hoysala with five officers in it was sent to the scene immediately after they were alerted on Saturday afternoon. “There was some confusion as Nandkumar gave two different locations,” they said. “By the time we reached the place, the offenders had run away.”
 
 In his post, Nandkumar said, “We were returning to our office, after lunch, in Diamond District, Old Airport Road, when 4 drunk men were standing right in front of a bar which is on our way back to the office. One of them suddenly groped one of my colleagues and she responded by slapping him. As she was from the North, she couldn't understand the local language and I stepped in to ask them what actually happened. When another girl who was with us asked him (the drunk man) to say sorry, they refused. They started pulling my T-shirt and tore it.”
 
 He went on to add: “To my surprise, we were surrounded by people who were well educated, well dressed and yet blind enough to ignore the fact that a girl had been harassed by some drunkards. I hope you all enjoyed the drama. We also tried reaching out BENGALURU CITY POLICE who asked hold all till they reach the scene (sic).”
 
 
