NEW YORK: A math teacher from India is being hailed as a hero after she got her class to hunker down despite the Florida school shooter setting off the fire alarm to draw students out of their classrooms.

 
 Shanthi Vishwanathan, called "Mrs V" by her students, knew something wasn't right when the second fire alarm of the day sounded shortly before classes were to end at  , and rather than let her Algebra II students out, she made them get on the floor in the corner of the room, the Orlando Sentinel reported on Friday.
 
 Vishwanathan also covered the window of the class door with paper so no one could see in. She refused to open the door even when the SWAT teams knocked, fearing the killer was masquerading as the police. She said, "Knock it down or open it with a key. I'm not opening the door," the mother of one of the students who survived the incident related, and that's what the SWAT team eventually did.
 
 Such an act of courage is in sharp contrast to the pusillanimity of US lawmakers, many of them supported by the pro-gun lobby, who refuse to legislate stricter gun control despite repeated episodes of school shooting that have become the nightmare of every parent in America.
 
 Protests and chants of "No More Guns!" erupted at memorials even as President Trump made what many commentators considered a weaselly speech in which he spoke on the issue of mental health but avoided any mention of gun control.
 
 The gun lobby, which backed a Trump presidency, was also on the backfoot, after pictures emerged of the shooter wearing a "Make America Great Again" cap during target practice.
 
 But the right wing mostly focused its attention on the purported botch up by the  , which was forewarned about the shooter and local law enforcement which was apparently called to the young man's home dozens of times over the past seven years to handle domestic situations.
 
 The latest shooting has angered the liberal illuminati so much that many tv anchors, and late night show hosts have raged against Trump and his gun-loving supporters, dropping any pretense of evenhanded commentary.
 
 "You've literally done nothing, on guns," Jimmy Kimmel raged on ABC. "Actually, you've done worse than nothing. You like to say this is a mental health issue. One of your very first acts as president, Mr. Trump, was to roll back the regulations that were designed to keep firearms out of the hands of mentally ill. You did that. Your party voted to repeal the mandates on coverage for mental health. So I agree, this is a mental illness issue, because if you don't think we need to do something about it, you're obviously mentally ill."
 
