SHIMLA: The councillors of the opposition parties on Wednesday created ruckus in the Shimla municipal corporation House and shouted slogans over   Mayor Kusum Sadrate's visit to China at the time when the tourist town was reeling under unprecedented water crisis. 

 
 The   councillors rocked the House proceedings, forcing the BJP councillors and deputy mayor   to leave the house within 20 minutes amid heavy sloganeering. The Congress said the House would not be allowed to run till Mayor resigns from her post. As soon as the House proceedings started on Wednesday, Congress and the   councillors raised the issue of acute water shortage in the town and failure of the BJP-led municipal corporation to provide adequate drinking water to the residents. 
 
 They said it was a matter of shame that Sadrate had left the residents at their fate for a junket to China. Soon, deputy mayor Rakesh Sharma left the House and was followed by other BJP councillors who could not counter the Opposition on the issue. The Congress councillors raised slogans against the mayor and the deputy mayor and demanded their resignations. The opposition councillors also called the mayor a 'deserter'.
 
 Jakhu councillor   said it was known since December that Shimla would face acute water shortage in summers due to deficit monsoon and poor snowfall in winter. "But neither the MC nor the BJP government of the state took required steps to ensure adequate arrangements of water for the city," she added.
 
 Dhawan said she had never seen a mayor leaving the city on a foreign junket at the time of crisis during her four terms as a councillor. "Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur is holding meetings on water crisis but he should first explain why his government permitted the mayor to leave for China when Shimla is hit by water crisis," she added.
 
 Ram Bazar councillor Sushma Kuthiala said the BJP had been exposed on the water issue as it had made a false promise of providing 24 hours water to hill town.
 
  "Today is seventh day when our ward is without water supply," she added. The Congress councillors said protest would continue and the House would not be allowed to run till Mayor resigns from her post. "She has betrayed the people of Shimla and should resign on moral ground." 
 
