PATNA: Officials of the state assembly were on Thursday seen giving final touches to the preparations for the four-day 6th India region conference of the   Parliamentary Association (CPA), which will begin here on Friday.

 The conference, in which delegates from Lok Sabha, Rajya Sabha and legislative bodies of all Indian states and some foreign countries will participate, is scheduled to conclude on February 19 with post conference tour programme of delegates and their spouses to Bodh Gaya and Rajgir.
 
 The sprawling premises of the assembly, legislative council and the Gyan Bhavan, where different sessions will be held, have been beautifully decorated to welcome the delegates and their companions.
 
 It is for the first time that Bihar is hosting such a big event of the CPA in which the speakers of state assemblies and chairpersons of legislative councils from across the country as well as heads of legislative bodies of some foreign countries will participate.
 
 The conference will begin on February 16 with the meeting of CPA’s India region’s executive committee at a hotel here. Delegates from different states and foreign nations started reaching the state capital on Thursday.
 
 Ms Robyn Lambley, an MLA from northern territory of Australia, reached Patna by an Air India flight on Thursday evening. She is staying at a hotel near Gandhi Maidan.
 
 Goa assembly Speaker Dr Pramod Sawant and his spouse Sulakshana Sawant landed at the local airport late in the evening. A team of Bihar assembly officials received Sawant at the airport.
 
 A Bihar assembly official said majority of the speakers, deputy speakers and chairpersons of state legislative councils and foreign delegates would reach Patna on Friday, hours before the beginning of the CPA’s executive body meeting.
 
 Bihar Speaker Vijay Kumar Choudhary said the four-day conference would be formally inaugurated by Lok Sabha Speaker Sumitra Mahajan at the Gyan Bhavan on February 17. Bihar CM Nitish Kumar will be the chief guest at the inaugural session.
 
 “Plenary session will be held in the assembly hall on February 17. Veteran BJP functionary Murli Manohar Joshi will deliver keynote address on ‘Parliament’s role in development agenda’, while Union minister of law and justice Ravi Shankar Prasad will speak on ‘Legislature and judiciary-two important pillars of democracy’. After the plenary session, the meeting of the CPA’s India region’s general body will be held in the evening,” Choudhary said.
 
 
