CHANDIGARH: The foreign exchange market is currently facing a  , causing a lot inconvenience to residents planning international travel this season.

 Presently, the British pound and Canadian Dollar are in short supply in multiple currency exchange organisations across the city. People planning to visit the UK or Canada are bearing the brunt of the situation.
 
 
  
 Rajesh Kumar, an employee of a foreign exchange company shared that the rates are high for the currency on the global level with a lesser availability of currency. “The pounds and dollar are in shortage and it’s creating inconvenience, especially to students planning to move abroad,” Kumar said.
 
 Akashdeep Singh, a Panchkula-based student who is preparing for higher education in Canada, said, “It becomes inconvenient and adds to the already laborious process of immigration for students to arrange at least the basic amount of currency to keep with themselves while shifting to a foreign land.”
 
 “We rely heavily on cash in hand for our transactions. And, digital transactions are not everyone’s cup of tea. Each year, my grandparents have to buy and keep the currency with them in advance as they are not very familiar with the digital transactions,” said Aroosh Bhakhri, an NRI who moved to the UK for his education.
 
 Vikas Sharma of a foreign exchange company, Chandigarh, said is not a new issue. Agreeing to the condition of currency crunch, Sharma said, “The demand is largely from students and professionals who are shifting abroad in search of better opportunities apart from the general trend of families travelling to the UK and Canada to spend their summer vacations travelling or visiting extended families. The currency generation market relies heavily on these NRIs and April, May, and July are the off-season for the NRIs because of the hot weather which makes the availability shortage of the currency rather obvious. And hence, it is allowing for more and more people to become victims of the black market transactions.” he said.
 
 However, to the people who are planning to travel and/or shift to the UK and wish to escape the black market rates, their answer lies with the usage of travel cards provided by various banks instead of carrying cold currency with themselves. These cards work on the standard rates and since there is no involvement of cash demand, they are increasingly becoming a preferred option. As for the students, they are relying majorly on the inter-banking rates as more and more students are opting for digital transactions on their international account for their various needs.
 
 
