MUMBAI: Captains of industry pledged on Sunday to invest billions of dollars in   over the next 10 years, betting on the state's economic growth prospects. 

  At the global investor summit, Magnetic Maharashtra, which was inaugurated by PM   at the MMRDA ground in BKC, Mukesh Ambani, Anand Mahindra and, Richard Branson, among others, announced plans to build digital infrastructure, a transportation hub, a tourism zone and an e-vehicle manufacturing unit in the state. 
 
  
  Branson, chairman of Virgin Hyperloop One (VHO), said his company had signed an intent agreement with the state government to develop a hyperloop route between Pune Central, the proposed Navi Mumbai airport and Mumbai, beginning with an operational demonstration track. He said the near-supersonic mode of on-ground passenger travel could cut travel time considerably and also reduce accidents. The hyperloop mode uses technology in which a vehicle in a special tunnel floats above the track, using magnetic levitation, at a top speed of 1,000km per hour. 
 
 Reliance   CMD Mukesh Ambani laid out the framework of the first-ever integrated digital industrial area in partnership with global companies. This initiative, he said, would give a big push to disruptive technologies such as artificial intelligence, virtual reality and robotics and make Maharashtra the cradle of the fourth industrial revolution. "We will be investing close to Rs 60,000 crore over the next 10 years and will be collaborating with global partners like Dell, Nokia, Cisco and Siemens," said Ambani. 
 
 Anand Mahindra, chairman of  , revealed a Rs 500 crore MoU with the state government for manufacture of e-vehicles. Maharashtra recently announced an electric vehicle policy with a slew of benefits for both manufacturer and consumers. Mahindra also announced the building of a Bollywoodthemed entertainment destination on the company’s own land in Kandivli at a cost of Rs 1,700 crore. The company will also invest Rs 125 core in an all-green tech park in Nagpur that is expected to generate 2,000 jobs. While Mumbai is a jewel in the crown of the country, it is also a double-edged sword, said Mahindra. “If Mumbai continues to groan under its weight, it will drive away investors.”
 
 Prime Minister Modi said the BJP government in the state as well as the Centre has ushered in policy reforms to develop an atmosphere conducive to bringing in foreign investment. “These investment summits are an example of cooperative, competitive federalism. Every state is trying to showcase its best to draw more investments,” he said.
 
 
 
