In the latest episode of  ,   seems to be extremely upset. She doesn’t want   to drop her at the hospital.   tries to explain that she had no intention to offend her. She also tells her that Iman is going to be a mother soon, so she should be cautious about her health.

  blames Shruti for dragging Ranajay into her personal issues. Ranajay criticises Rupkotha for such behaviour. Badshah too supports Iman and Rupkotha.
 
 Iman makes it very clear that she does not need any help from Ranajay for her unborn child. Ranajay’s mother also blames Shruti for bringing unnecessary tension into their life. Ranajay requests his mother not to insult Shruti since she hasn’t done anything wrong.
 
 Iman argues with Ranajay for helping Shruti. Everyone criticizes Shruti for not sharing her problem with anyone else. Unable to bear allegations against her, she wants to leave. Ranajay stops her. He states that Shruti stood by her when no one else did. And he is extremely grateful to her.
 
 Iman goes to her hospital alone. Her superior asks why she is travelling alone at this advanced stage of pregnancy. She tells her that Ranajay is busy with his job so he couldn’t drop her. Her superior understands that the couple had a fight. He tries to console her.
 
 Iman informs him that Shruti has arrived and this time she will stay with Ranajay’s family. She also shares that Shruti is unwell although she hasn’t discussed her health issues with anyone else. Iman’s superior doctor suggests they should admit Shruti to a hospital for check-up. He also suggests that Iman should handle the situation strictly as the couple has already suffered a lot due to Shruti.
 
 Ranajay takes Shruti to doctor’s clinic. The doctor asks her whether she noticed the symptoms before. Shruti tells him that she had fever and noticed sudden weight loss and loss of appetite in the last few months. Doctor informs them that Shruti needs immediate surgery.
 
 Shruti seems to be losing faith.
 
 Mithu takes care of Michil in the absence of his mother Shruti. Michil asks for his mother. Everyone blames Shruti for this critical situation.
 
