BENGALURU: These days Ramesh Jadhav (name changed), a youth in mid-twenties frequently gets invitations to ``hang out’’ with his party leaders who treat him with non-vegetarian food and branded  .

 These after-hours meetings happen in farm houses, makeshift electoral camps, party supporter's houses or eateries in the remote villages in the state gearing up to the assembly polls on May 12.
 
 Amid the celebration, which sometimes also involves dance and music, Jadhav is briefed on his assignment the next day. ``These low-key feasting are generally organized by the confidants of sitting MLAs and aspiring party candidates,’’ said Jadhav. ``It is very common for alcohol to be available during any elections, be it municipal or assembly polls. But gone are the days when people were won over with country brew or cheap whisky. Standards have gone up. Now, Indian Made Foreign Liquor and beer wrapped in newspapers are up for grabs,’’ he added.
 
 Dinesh Shetty, owner of a popular bar and restraint at R T Nagar says that such events have become more discreet in recent years. Candidates avoid such party’s and now they directly distribute bottles asking them to drink in the comfort of their homes to avoid the Election Commission’s hawk’s eye. In many places instead of bottles, the local leaders give away tokens, which can be exchanged for liquor at the stores.
 
 According to an official, who leads expenditure monitoring liquor movement district-wise said the excise and police officials have seized around 2,000 litres of liquor and beefed up intelligence to report the transfer of illicit liquor. Along with the flying squad and liquor monitoring team, a State Surveillance Team is set up within each police station.
 
 ``Most of the liquor is coming from Goa as it is available reasonably there. We have intensified surveillance near border check points and seizure of liquor has become a regular event," they added. In previous polls, alcohol was bootlegged and made easily available, despite the ban but that has stopped completely now.
 
 But local liquor store owners are complaining, as they claim no one is buying from them as they know EC is keeping a tab on bulk sales in a liquor outlet. ``The EC has made life hell for us," said S Sunil, who owns a wine shop at Hebbal. ``People think liquor shops make bumper profits around elections but we suffer. It is the illegal traders who gain. Once he reaches the daily quota, he closes his shop to avoid getting a notice against bulk sale,’’ he added.
 
 What the law says?
 
 The Model Code of Conduct asks parties and candidates abstain from serving or distributing alcohol to voters when the poll code is in force. On polling day and 48 hours preceding it, dry days will be declared to ensure they don’t influence voters will liquor. The confiscated liquor is disposed under the prohibition law. Those bottles deemed unfit for consumption are straight away destroyed and then the rest are taken to an excise departmental store, which are sold to Karnataka Beverages Corporation.
 
 
