SURAT: Union commerce minister Suresh Prabhu said his government will never encourage wrongdoers in diamond and jewellery industry, but will ask financial institutions to support genuine players. 

 Prabhu was speaking on Friday at ‘Diamond and jewellery financing-2018, mitigating risks effectively’, a first-ever banking summit organized by the Gems and Jewellery Export Promotion Council (GJEPC) in Mumbai following the   (PNB) scam by billionaire Nirav Modi and his uncle Mehul Choksi. 
 
 Addressing the gathering, Prabhu said, “Government of India would help the gems and jewellery industry in bank finance, only on the basis of trade transparency and ethical business practices.”
 
 Commerce secretary, Government of India, Rita Teaotia said, “The Government of India will not favour any demand that is not in line with principles set by the Export Credit Guarantee Corporation of India (ECGC) and the Reserve Bank of India. Banking institutions will take decisions on extending finance purely on the basis of merits and not on favouritism.” 
 
  (SBI) managing director Dinesh Khara was of the opinion that Indian gems and jewellery industry must show whatever they commit to get finance from the banks. The cost of borrowing has increased for the industry due to discontinuation of LoUs and LoCs due to recent banking frauds. 
 
 The banking summit was attended by leading bankers, representatives from diamond and jewellery sector and government bodies. 
 
 Diamond analyst Aniruddha Lidbide, who attended the banking summit, said, “Banks and the Government of India do not want to take any risk in financing the diamond industry. The cost of borrowing for Indian diamantaires has increased as LoUs and LoCs no longer work in foreign banks. There is no other way out for the industry, but to work ethically, transparently and without too much risks.” 
 
 Meanwhile, GJEPC presented a white paper on diamond and jewellery financing-2018 on Friday. In the white paper, GJEPC has recommended that the banks form an informal arbitration body consisting of bankers, GJEPC and Bharat Diamond Bourse (BDB) members to find solution to issues such as NPA management, recovery and disputes, long- term credit risk investigation team, critical data analysis regarding the trade etc.
 
 
