CHENNAI: The application process for engineering and medicine aspirants involves a single form, but arts and science students are forced to buy multiple applications, either at college counters or online. While the single window engineering admission process is being modified and has gone online, colleges offering arts and science programmes continue to follow the old pattern.

 The government has said it has no plans to change the pattern, but many academicians feel it is time for a single window system for these institutions that can be carried out keeping the various boards in mind to avoid any unfair advantage. 
 
 N Shettu, secretary of the   (AUT) which has been demanding such a pattern for a long time, said students would only have to submit one application and admission would be based on merit. “Now, students have to apply to many colleges and additionally spend for multiple applications in a single institution, Rs 300 or above for each. Instead the process can be carried out at a minimum cost,” he said.
 
 There is no fixed fee structure at present. “Colleges fix the fee as per their wish. There should be a fixed quota for government and private colleges,” Shettu said.
 
 The norms aren’t followed as admissions in self-financing colleges are carried out long before the process begins in government colleges.
 
 M  , a former Anna University vice-chancellor and chairman of the school education department’s curriculum framework committee, agreed that a single window system was doable and could be a great resource saving mechanism. “It would especially be advantageous for parents and students. It would help optimise seats and help avoid seats being dropped, going waste or issues of late filling.”
 
 It would involve designing a good management software system but someone must take responsibility for holding counselling, he said. “Since   are affiliated to different universities, all vice-chancellors should get together to develop a common policy and procedure on how to go about it. Or else the state council for higher education should be revived and should take up the responsibility.” 
 
 Department officials were not available for comment. 
 
 
