Bengaluru: Two years into his role as   CEO, Abidali Neemuchwala is undertaking a leadership rejig. The move comes ahead of rolling out his strategy for the next fiscal.

 Anand Padmanabhan, president of energy and utilities and construction (ENU), which contributes over $1 billion to Wipro's revenue, will now be president of business development and strategic sales. His long-time colleague NS Balasubramanian, who is the president of the manufacturing and technology business, the company’s second-largest business unit with revenues of $1.8 billion, replaces Padmanabhan as head of ENU.   became the head of manufacturing and tech in 2003, when it was still a sub $100-million business.
 
 In the last few years, Wipro’s ENU business has faced headwinds on account of the weakness in the oil industry to which it has a relatively high exposure. Wipro’s energy and utilities vertical posted a 7.9% sequential decline in the December quarter, largely because of one of its clients, Carillion, filing for bankruptcy. Padmanabhan, who has been with Wipro for 31 years, was instrumental in the company acquiring US-based Science Applications International Corporation (SAIC)'s global oil & gas information technology business for $150 million in 2011. He also led the $195-million acquisition of ATCO to expand its ENU footprint in Canada. 
 
 Padmanabhan’s new role will be to grow and drive localization in what Wipro calls `leveraged geographies’, including Asia Pacific & Japan, Continental Europe, Canada, Middle East and  . Its geo-heads Christophe Martinoli (Continental Europe),   (Middle East) and Xavier Diniz (Canada) will report to Padmanabhan.
 
 Jimit Arora, who leads US-based advisory Everest Group’s IT services research practice, said Padmanabhan’s new cross-industry role creates more leadership capacity for the firm outside North America. “Consequently, I see this as a geographic focus strategy by taking a senior leader and giving him a global, cross-industry role which will create emphasis outside   (where adequate leadership currently exists),” he said. In an email to employees, Neemuchwala said, “Last month, post our third quarter earnings announcement, I wrote to you on the need to be agile, nimble-footed and explore opportunities to rotate talent across business units, tech practices and geographies. What better way to start than from the top.”
 
 Wipro has also decided to split the manufacturing and technology strategic business unit into two separate businesses for what it called sharper focus and better alignment with its strategic priorities. Ankur Prakash has been appointed as vice president – manufacturing SBU (strategic business unit) & Latin America. Nitin Parab, who has been leading Wipro’s semiconductor, computing, storage & peripherals (SCSP) vertical, has been appointed as vice president – technology SBU. 
 
 Phil Fersht, CEO of US-based HfS Research said, “Wipro is increasingly looking to specialize by industry sector as the evolving customer needs are requiring much deeper engagement with leaders who can align digitalization and automation into their services models. The recent TCS mega deals with Transamerica and Nielsen are becoming the new bellwethers of where the future of the industry lies,” he said.
 
