Jaipur: It was a big disappointment for movie buffs who were waiting eagerly for Padmaavat to be released in multiplexes in Rajasthan.

 Despite Supreme Court’s order, the multiplexes did not the screen the movie fearing violent protest. 
 
 While, many termed the decision of not screening the movie as denial of their democratic right, a few others supported the decision as it would maintain peace and harmony in the state.
 
 Devendra Mewara, a businessman, said, “The state government should enforce strict laws to safeguard the rights of those who are willing to watch this film in a democratic country. Not releasing cinema in Rajasthan and showing it in other parts of country is not the solution,” he said.
 
 Movie lovers said, if the state government turned a blind eye to the issue, these incidents would continue to happen.
 
 “Various sections of the society have already started against every other film. Recently, a community vandalised movie hall for Tiger Zinda Hai. If all these protest continues, employment of workers related with this industry will be in serious threat,” said Vartika Jain.
 
 Meanwhile, supporting the ban, a few residents in the city claimed that as Rajasthan is the epicentre for protest, the move would allow to maintain peace and harmony in the state. “Sentiments of the people in the state are hurt. Releasing movie under police protection could further deteriorate the situation. If the filmmakers are keen show Padmaavat to Rajasthan viewers, they should telecast movie on television. People would have a choice and those who doesn’t want to see, will not turn on the sets,” said Naveen Menon, another businessman and cinema lover.
 
 According to sources, Rajasthan is among the top five film territories in the country and accounts for 7% of the total revenue. While cinema would be released in another states, including Kolkatta, film lovers will state will have no option left other than to wait.
 
 “It’s sad, the movie is based on Rajasthan’s story and people who are living in the state are deprived from seeing it. There should be a middle path. However, the state should take strict action against the law violators,” said Nishant Saini.
 
 
