Kolkata: As Telengana chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao eyes a non-Congress, non-BJP front at the national level, his West Bengal counterpart   Banerjee hasn’t deleted Congress from her proposed federal front to remove BJP from power.

 “Your (BJP) target is Be-ngal, our target is the Red Fo-rt in Delhi,” Mamata said on Tuesday while addressing a public meeting in Bankura’s Patrasayar. In the same breath, the CM clarified that she didn’t want the “chair” in the new front. “Bengal doesn’t want anything in return. Bengal doesn’t want the chair. Our aim is clear. We want BJP ousted. Bring someone else in power,” Banerjee said, putting to rest criticism that she was craving for power.
 
 The Bengal CM has been in touch with all senior leaders in the country, from Sharad Pawar to Akhilesh Yadav and Mayawati, and from Lalu Prasad’s party to Farooq Abdullah. She sent birthday wishes to Stalin a few days ago, as she did to CPM leader and former chief minister Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee.
 
 On Tuesday, she also went vocal against the pulling down of Lenin’s statue in Tripura. “I do not subscribe to Lenin’s ideology. But I don’t support the pulling down of heroes. People have seen me protesting against CPM’s atrocities in Singur, Nandigram and Netai among others. Likewise, I don’t endorse BJP’s atrocities in Tripura — the way they are pulling down statues or taking control of party offices by force. Remember we had given the slogan ‘badla noi, badal chai’ after we came to power in 2011,” Banerjee said.
 
 She is also sending Trinamool Rajya Sabha leader Derek O’Brien to the wedding of TDP parliamentary leader YS Chowdary’s daughter, despite TDP being an NDA ally.
 
 The decisions indicate Banerjee is trying to carve out a formation against BJP independent of Congress. She has made it clear to her party MPs that Trinamool won’t play second fiddle to Congress under Rahul Gandhi, who has to prove his wor-th in the coming elections in the four to five states before leading the anti-BJP front.
 
 Trinamool seniors refused to talk on KCR floating a new front minus Congress but are keeping a watch on the developments. KCR has got in touch with Chhattisgarh’s former chief minister Ajit Jogi and CPM general secretary Sitaram Yechury over the new front.
 
 
