 is one of the most loved onscreen small screen actresses for her role   in   aired on Asianet. As the serial is nearing its 1500th episode, her role has inspired many women. Happily married to businessman Arun, the actress is blessed with a seven-year-old daughter Kalyani and is settled in her hometown Cherthala. Recently, the mother and daughter were noted for mimicking a popular Malayalam rhyme which went viral on social media. The actress, who bagged best actress award at Asianet Television Awards 2018 talks to us about her popularity, her character Deepthi, family and more:

 
 
 
 
 I found my spark for acting when I won the best actress award during the State School Youth Festival when I was in Class 12. I graduated from Assumption College at Changanacherry. But during my studies, I was actively hosting television and stage shows for various events. I got employed in an FM channel at Thrissur. It was then I came to know that the crew of Indira serial aired on Mazhavil Manorama was looking for a replacement for the protagonist’s role through my neighbour who was a television artiste. I gave it a try and made my acting debut in showbiz as a replacement actress in 2013. Parasparam just happened to me after Indira. I had watched the Hindi serial Diya Aur Baati Hum on Star Plus, as Parasparam is its Malayalam remake. I loved the role of Sandhya in it and didn’t have second thoughts when I was given a chance to perform Deepthi in Parasparam. Now the serial is close to its 1500th episode and I dedicate the success to the dear audience who accepted me.
 
 
 
 
 
 I never dreamt that people would love the serial with all their hearts, especially women. I was surprised to find that Parasparam has even become part of their lives. Whenever I attend any function, women would hug me. They see me as Deepthi IPS in real life too and even comment about the plot and episodes. Some even ask, “Why isn’t your mother-in-law satisfied despite all the good things you do?”
 
 Also I think as my role is packed with valour, women love it. Many women, deep inside, have the urge to react to certain situations in their life but sometimes fail to do so. I feel that there is a Deepthi IPS in everybody and that may be the reason for the huge acceptance of the role.
 
 
 
 
 
 I had received massive feedback on how the role inspired people. My cousin works as a school teacher in Alappuzha. She once asked her students to write about their ambition in life. A girl student wrote she wanted to become Deepthi, an IPS officer. Thus among the children who only dreamt of becoming doctors or engineers, the character could also create an aspiration for civil service. I think my role made the profession more familiar to the common man.
 I have a fan named Swathi who exchanges emails. She is a Bachelor of Ayurvedic Medicine and Surgery. Watching my serial inspired her to try her hand at the civil service and she is currently preparing for the exams. While people comment on the flaws of serials and its impact on people, real life experiences like these showcases the advantages. 
 
 Sometimes during the shooting schedules I may have to travel to various locations wearing the police uniform. Unknowingly many have also saluted me. That said I have felt the power and respect that the uniform gives and had wished to become one in real life too. But it’s not my cup of tea. I give a big salute to the civil servants of our country especially lady IPS officers.
 
 
 
 
 
 For around three months, we had shot the IPS training scenes, which included adventurous tasks performed by civil service candidates. We were guided by real officers for the sequences including passing out parade. Being serial actresses, we don’t have any dupes so it was a great challenge and experience for me to perform the scenes under the scorching sun. It was the result and passion of the whole cast, the director Manju Dharman and producer Jayakumar. We also received great reviews for those episodes from ex-military officers.
 
 
 
 
 
 My father Ramachandran Nair, my in-laws and husband have been my pillars of support. During the initial days, my father was not for the idea of me acting but when he first watched my serial he broke into tears and said he must have supported me earlier. Whenever I bag an award, it’s my father who gets more emotional rather than me.
 
 My daughter Kalyani loves acting. The recent video I uploaded was her first attempt. One day I saw her mimicking the video Panchara vittu kunju nadannu, a cute video of a kid trying to learn a very popular Malayalam rhyme from her mother. First I thought she is doing dubsmash, later I found that she learned the whole video and was doing the action and dialogues by herself. I was surprised she learnt it all by herself.
 
 
 
 
 
 As I have had tight shooting schedules and wanted to spend my time with family, I had missed many good film projects in Tamil and Malayalam. So after Parasparam, I will take up more films which has room for good performance-oriented roles. I would love to do women-oriented subjects like Vidya Balan’s Kahaani. 
 
