In the latest episode of Taarak Mehta Ka Oolta Chashmah, the   men are spotted climbing out of the bungalow by the police. The police questions them. They tell the police about their professions to convince them that they are honest men who just wanted to get some lemons. 

 They have a tough time in explaining their suspicious actions. They also tell the policemen that they have left 30 rupees for taking the lemons. But the police refuses to buy their story and asks them to get into the jeep. Their cell phones are also confiscated.
 
  and company worry to no end about their family members. Jethalal's father goes to Taarak's house to ask about his son's whereabouts. When Taarak's wife tells him they are out for a stroll, he flares up even more. Then one by one the family members of Gokuldham men try to call them but, much to their dismay, they find out that their phones are unreachable.
 
 Back at the police station, when the police tries to lock up the men, they fight tooth and nail from getting behind bars. During the argument that ensues, Taarak educates them that as per the law, the police has the right to put them behind bars. At this, Jethalal has an outburst and asks him as to whose side he is on. Then the men ask the police inspector to call Inspector Pandey as he knows them. They are the told that the latter is out on a patrol.
 
 Jethalal's father with the wives of the Gokuldham men reach Abdul's shop to inquire their whereabouts. Abdul tells them that in their search for lemons they have to go to the bungalow 'Sweet Home' to pluck lemons from its garden. Everyone, shocked at the men's actions, asks Abdul to take them to the bungalow.
 
  Back in the cell, Sodhi has a scuffle with two goons who are locked up with them. The inspector grills them once again to come clean about what they have stolen.
 
  Inspector Chalu Pandey asks for a lemon soda as he is inflicted with acidity. He is informed that the lemons that were kept in reserve for him are over. He then learns about a gang who were arrested for breaking into a bungalow. He goes to visit the cell in which they are locked to investigate the matter. The Gokuldham men try to convince Chulbul Pandey of their innocence. What remains to be seen is if he will buy their story and set them free. Keep watching this space to know what happens next.
 
