GURUGRAM: Haryana Vidyut Prasaran Nigam Ltd (HVPNL) has given its nod to National Highways Authority of India ( ) for taking down two electrical   of high-tension wires which were coming in the way of two flyovers at Iffco Chowk and delaying their opening. 

 A 220-KV transmission tower is located on the straight flyover going towards ABW tower. Similarly, a 66-KV transmission tower is located on the unidirectional flyover located on the other side. After these two towers are removed, the flyovers will be opened by March 31, easing traffic movement for commuters on the stretch. Another unidirectional flyover at Iffco Chowk is already operational while a right-turn at the junction will be thrown open later. 
 
 According to the NHAI officials, HVPNL is in charge of high-tension power cables and transmission towers on roads and highways. On January 15, NHAI had written to HVPNL, asking for a revised rate for the work of removing the towers which will be done by the NHAI consultant. 
 
 According to NHAI consultant Bloom Companies, HVPN has now revised the rate for shifting of the transmission towers and has included the GST components and some additional quantities in it. 
 
 Saurabh Singhal, traffic transportation expert at Bloom Companies, said, “We have accepted the revised rates given by HVPN. The 220 KV electrical wires have been placed in newly-built electrical ducts and we will soon begin the work of bringing down the wires in the presence of HVPN officials. In a matter of a month, all three Iffco Chowk flyovers will be operational.” 
 
 After the HVPNL nod, Ashok Sharma, project director, NHAI, confirmed, “The Iffco Chowk flyover will be opened by March 31.” NHAI had submitted its plan, including removal of electrical towers and other utilities falling in the alignment of the Iffco Chowk project, to the Haryana government at least a year ago. 
 
 HVPNL superintendent engineer Anil Yadav said, “The matter is now in the hands of NHAI. NHAI will remove the towers. We will supervise their work.”
 
 
