PUNE:   took home the most number of awards at the city finale of Times   Colour Splash 2017-18 inter-school painting competition, held in association with   (NPCIL), on Friday at Amanora Town Centre in Hadapsar. 

 Khushal Gehlot of class VII from Vijay Vallabh bagged the first prize in the senior category (class VII to IX). He was followed by Tanisha Choudhary, of class VII from Blossom Public School, at the first runner-up position, while Mihika Gokhale, of class VII from DAV Public School, was the second runner-up.
 
 Over 1,000 students from NIE member-schools participated in the event unleashing their creative streak revolving around the theme of nuclear energy. Vihaan Goyal of class IV from City Pride School won the junior category (class IV to VI), while the first runner-up prize was bagged by Jiya Bhandari of class V from Hutchings High School. Jeet Dave of class V from Acharya Shree Vijay Vallabh School bagged the second runner-up prize.
 
 NPCIL under  , formed with a mandate to build and operate nuclear power plants in India, has been working to promote and harness nuclear energy as an optimal and non-polluting resource. Amritesh Srivastava, senior manager (media), NPCIL, and editor of NuPower, an international journal of nuclear power, Mumbai, ran a quick quiz involving the audience members regarding nuclear power generation and functionality of the NPCIL. On the spot prizes were awarded to those from the audience who answered right. The aim was to promote the idea of nuclear energy among the youth. 
 
 He said, “Nuclear energy can be one of the best options to generate electricity to meet the long term demand for electricity. This was an ideal platform to inform and educate students about the numerous aspects of nuclear energy and to dispel apprehensions about it.” 
 
 The students swayed to the tunes of Bollywood chartbuster Sun Raha Hai Na Tu as chief guest Sandeep Nath, noted lyricist, screenwriter, director and producer, regaled students with an account of his literary career. Expressing pleasure to be among students, he said, “It was certainly one of the best events I have attended. Being in the company of children makes you feel young and energetic. I was thoroughly impressed with the creativity of the budding artists. I would like to applaud such initiatives that help students nurture and cultivate their talent.”
 
 The event was interspersed with fun activities that kept the students engrossed throughout. RP Raju, public relations manager, NPCIL, enthralled the audience with a magic show. 
 
 Judges on the panel included veteran cartoonist Mukim Tamboli, artists Suresh Gulage, Kalyani Gulage and freelance artist Swati Jethwa. 
 
 The event concluded with the prize distribution ceremony. The venue partner for the event was Amanora Town Centre.
 
 
