Though one really doesn't need a particular day to express love, still   seems to be the day that all couples really look forward to. It's certainly a day to celebrate the joy of togetherness and the eternal feeling called love. 
 However, for those who stay miles away from each other, Valentine's Day sometimes brings in a great deal of disappointment and longing. When your pals are busy planning romantic dates, chances are you might not even be able to share glances with your beloved. But there is no reason to be upset when you can actually make it special for both of you.
  
  All that you need is - pouring in some extra efforts, time and think creatively. Here are a few ideas that can help you make your   a memorable one, irrespective of the distance separating you...
 
 
 
  
  
 
  Thanks to the wonders of Internet and plastic money, it will just take you a few minutes to buy a bunch of flowers, chocolates and a teddy bear for your partner. But may be your beloved deserves a better surprise this V-day.
  
  Neha Madan, a bank executive tells, "It was our first Valentine and my beau was in Canada. I still had my friends and family around, but he had nobody to cheer him up. I selected two of our solo pictures, got them printed on different sides of a mug, along with a small quote that said, 'We might be on different sides of the globe, but we are always connected heart to heart.' Then I baked heart shaped cookies for him. It was worth taking all the pain as my guy was so thrilled to see my gifts. It brought us infinitely closer."
  
  
 
  It's a well known fact that a picture speaks louder than words, so why not encash upon this phenomenon? Pictures really take you back in time and remind you of those warm hearted moments that you shared with your partner.
  
  Abhijeet Rawat, who works with a Delhi-based MNC says, "My girl loves to be clicked and has a photogenic face too. On our last V-day, I picked up a few sun-dried flowers, handmade papers and the best shots from our last trip. I made a beautiful photo album and opposite each picture, I wrote some interesting things related to the picture. I left the last page blank and pasted a note saying- I have saved the last page for our wedding picture, tell me the date soon, have to start saving. She was extremely touched and before I knew it she had said yes to my marriage proposal."
  
  
 
  Guys should always keep one fact in mind, that girls love to be pampered. The rule doesn't change even if you are staying in different cities. Rohan Sexena, a corporate communication manager tells, "I really wanted to give something extremely luxurious yet unique to my darling this V-day. Watches, diamonds, bags, I gave a thought to all these gift items, but these things can be given anytime. I lately read about wine spas and sensual massages. I knew my girl would love it. So I have booked a session for her, it has cost me a bomb but I am sure she would be in best of moods post that session. And I am really waiting for her reaction."
  
  
 
  In an age of technological advancements, sitting across the table with your beloved is not that difficult. You can still see and talk to him/her without traveling those thousand miles. This will certainly not affect your budget as well.
  
  Shriya Singh, a homemaker reveals, "Because of work we stay in different cities, but we make all possible efforts to keep the bridge of communication intact. My better half loves watching movies, so I sent him the DVD of a romantic flick and a bottle of red wine before Valentine's Day. We decided to watch the movie at the same time on our respective computers. We were on chat simultaneously and were texting our reactions to each other. After the movie, we switched on our webcams and had dinner while talking to each other. It felt as if he was around."
  
  
 
  Sending video messages to your beloved seems to be a good idea. You just need to find out an interesting way to express yourself. Sandhya Chauhan, a PR manager confesses, "When we were dating, my husband told me that he would love to see me performing striptease for him. Though, I could not muster enough courage to do it, but now when he is not around physically, I thought of surprising him with my moves. I joined a gym to enhance my curves and belly dancing classes to master sensual moves. It was a 'tough-to-keep' secret. After two months of hard work, I finally recorded a video of my performance. Along with a box of chocolates, I got it delivered to his apartment on Valentine's Day. In return, he was with me on the following weekend where we really worked our magic."
  
  
 
  There can be nothing better than appearing personally before your partner. Plan a surprise visit to leave your partner breathless. If not for an entire day, then for a few hours, don't miss a chance to delight your beloved.
  
  Aditya Sherawat, a Mumbai-based business development executive recalls, "My girl wanted me to be with her on Valentine's Day, but I had a meeting lined up in another city. May be we were destined to meet, my flight was canceled. So I just took an alternate flight to Delhi. She was getting ready for office when I called her and asked her to meet me. She didn't believe me for sometime. But eventually she slipped into a beautiful pink dress and was blushing all the time. Both of us were so elated to be together."
