Ghaziabad: A four-year-old boy died after falling into an   while playing with his brother in Ghaziabad’s Gulzar Colony on Tuesday, the second such death of a child in two   at a spot within metres of each other.

 The death of four-year-old Aahil on Sunday evening had triggered a protest by the residents of the colony — mostly daily wage labourers and small-time traders — who had lodged a police complaint against officials of the Ghaziabad Municipal Corporation.
 
 An FIR had subsequently been registered against unnamed GMC officials.
 
 The municipal corporation has since suspended a junior engineer responsible for the upkeep of the area and has started work on building a wall around the open drain.
 
 Four-year-old Ayan, the third among five siblings, had been playing with his brother Rehan (5), a mute boy, near their home when he fell into the   around 12.15pm on Tuesday. A visit to the spot revealed that the 6ft drain is filled with water, muck and garbage to the brim.
 
 The residents said it often becomes difficult to differentiate the level of the drain from the pathway as garbage strewn all over covers the road. At least five children have died in the past 10 years after falling into the open drain, they said.
 
 “Rehan rushed home but could not explain to her mother Rubina that Ayan had fallen into the drain. He kept making gestures with his hand, but Rubina could not understand it,” said Shah Alam, a neighbour.
 
 “When she did not see Ayan , she started frantically looking for him. Neighbours suspected a repeat of Sunday evening’s accident and joined in the search. After 45 minutes, someone spotted the boy’s slippers in the drain, and one of the neighbours jumped in. He found Ayan’s body at the bottom, a sleeve of his shirt stuck in the fan of a discarded cooler,” he added.
 
 The residents said had it not been for the cooler, it would have been difficult to spot the body, which had travelled almost 20 feet from the spot where Ayan had fallen. The spot in the drain where Aahil had fallen into on Sunday was metres away, they said.
 
 Ayan’s father Qayuum, who sells old clothes to sustain his family, could not be contacted immediately as he does not carry a mobile phone. The residents fanned out in different parts of the city and could finally trace him after almost three hours.
 
 Circle officer 1 (city) Manisha Singh said: “No FIR has been registered so far as we are yet to get a written complaint from the boy’s family. However, an investigation is on. The municipal corporation started the construction of a wall along the drain on Tuesday.”
 
 GMC commissioner CP Singh said: “A 2ft-high brick wall will be constructed along the drain and an iron mesh installed if there is a need. I have also suspended a junior engineer, Shrikant, for dereliction of duty. He should have informed the department about the scenario there.”
 
 Following the complaint by the residents after Aahil’s death, an FIR under sections 277 (fouling water of public spring or reservoir) and 304 A (causing death by negligence) of the IPC had been registered against unnamed GMC officials.
 
 The local police station deployed a large contingent in the area, fearing the residents would resort to a protest like they had done on Sunday. Anger has been simmering against the civic body among locals.
 
 Mohammad Zakir Ali Saifi, the local councillor, said: “It took two consecutive deaths for the municipal commissioner to wake up from slumber. Several written requests were made to the district administration and the civic agency, but they did not pay any heed. If there were shortage of funds for so long, how are the authorities building a wall now?”
 
 
