THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Latvian tourist   Skromane - whose decomposed body was found in a secluded wooded area near   on Friday- could have died of asphyxiation, police said on Wednesday. 

 The possibility of asphyxiation was raised after an autopsy. Earlier, police were favouring the possibility of poisoning as pong-pong fruits were abundantly found where Liga was found dead. "We are still awaiting a conclusive report. This was just a possibility hinted by the forensic surgeons," said commissioner P Prakash, adding that there was no clarity on the asphyxiation angle.
 
 Several tests are underway now and the results of the autopsy, visceral test, forensic and DNA tests are expected before Saturday. After we analyse all the test results, we will be able to say what might have happened in her case, he said.
 
 Meanwhile, police are still questioning residents of Kovalam and Panathura regions to find some clue to establish how Liga might have reached the area.
 
 Meanwhile, opposition leader Ramesh   met Liga's sister   and offered support. Later, he addressed the media and said that chief minister   had handled the issue irresponsibly. He said that Liga's family had met him in the assembly the same day they tried to meet the chief minister. They had tried to meet him several times but failed, he said.
 
 He claimed that police also committed a serious error during the investigation. Had the police acted swiftly as soon as they received the complaint, she could have been saved, he added. "Ilze was ridiculed at the police station and it is shameful," said Chennithala, referring to Ilze's complaint that police had behaved in an apathetic way. She had said that they had even smiled at her as she was trying to convince them how vulnerable Liga was owing to her mental condition.
 
 This problem occurred because policemen were not able to communicate properly in English. Government must appoint officers, who can handle the language at stations covering tourist destinations, he added.
 
