Surat: “I was confident that Asaram Bapu will get convicted as he himself preached several times that one has to face results of their deeds now or later.” This is how Rakesh Patel, whose wife — a senior sadhvi in Asaram Ashram in the city — reacted on the self-styled Godman’s conviction in the rape case. Patel, a photographer, was attacked on March 10, 2014, in Adajan area with an iron rod and he suffered serious head injury. His wife is a witness in the rape case against Asaram’s son Narayan Sai, who is lodged in Lajpore jail of Surat. “I was attacked to pressurize my wife, who is witness in a case against Narayan Sai. But we did not succumb to their threats and the judgement is a victory of truth,” he told TOI. Asaram and Narayan Sai’s followers had attacked three witnesses and their family members in the city during course of investigation. One of the victim was husband of the complainant woman, who has accused Sai of raping her several times between 2002 and 2005 in Surat ashram.  On March 16, 2014, two persons had thrown acid on a textile trader Dinesh Bhavchandani when he was going on his scooter in Vesu area. A former follower of Asaram Bhavchandani had turned against him and was a witness in the rape case against him. He was playing key role in police investigation, too, by helping cops identify other victims of Asaram’s atrocities. Bhavchandani did not suffer major injuries and passersby nabbed one of the attacker Kishore Bodke on the spot. Later, police investigation revealed that Bodke had planned to carry out a series of attacks on six witnesses in the rape cases against the father-son duo. Bhavchandani, however, refused to say anything when TOI contacted him.  On February 28, 2014, husband of the woman in rape case against Sai was attacked near ESI hospital and stabbed several times. He survived with serious injuries. The complainant woman has shifted to an undisclosed location with family and she could not be contacted. “The prosecution has requested the court to make Narayan Sai accused in the cases of attack on witnesses. It was a conspiracy to attack witnesses inspired by Sai,” special public prosecutor in the cases P N Parmar said. The plea is pending in the court.