GUWAHATI: The assembly on Tuesday was witness to an intense war of words between education minister   and former chief minister   - both holding each other responsible for the crisis at Assam Women's University (AWU) where a strike by students demanding a permanent VC entered the 23rd day on Tuesday. 

 Speaker   stepped in with an appeal to students to withdraw their strike and have trust in the government. "I, as the speaker, is saying this...give us some time...withdraw your strike, a meaningful solution will come," said Goswami. 
 
 Himanta, during his tenure as education minister in the previous Congress government, had placed the Women's University Bill in 2013 for setting up the first such institute for women in the state. Himanta, who first fired the salvo at   inside the house on Tuesday, said the chief minister is the chancellor of the university as per the Act and the former CM (Gogoi) failed to appoint a permanent VC under this provision, resulting in the crisis today.
 
 "For four years, there is an in-charge VC and not a permanent VC. There is no provision of such a position in the Act. I was the education minister then but appointing a VC was not the minister's job. It was the chief minister's duty as the chancellor is the appointing authority," said Himanta.
 
 Outside the house, Gogoi was quick to point out Himanta's blunder by saying that the university still does not have a VC. "I agree that the VC was not appointed during my term but what about the next two years. Today, Sonowal is the CM and by the Act, he is the chancellor of the university. He, too, has not appointed the VC in the last two years," said Gogoi. 
 
 He added, "Setting up a women's university was my idea but I must tell you that Sarma as the education minister took all the initiative to ensure that the university becomes a reality. He never told me that the VC had to be appointed after the university was set up."
 
 Assam Agricultural University VC and registrar are functioning as the women's university's in-charge VC and registrar respectively. There are 74 teachers and 15 non-teaching staff. All of them are on contract and on ad hoc basis, Himanta said in the house.
 
 The speaker has appealed to the media to have a positive outlook on the subject. 
 
 
