Nagpur: In a big disappointment for nature lovers, Tadoba-Andhari Tiger Reserve (TATR) has backed out of the  , which has been rechristened as ‘Nisarga Anubhav’.

 TATR field director Mukul Trivedi said the decision was taken in a meeting with additional principal chief conservator of forests (APCCF) Sunil Limaye on Wednesday at Nagpur. However, Limaye said, “The issue is still open. We have sought field directors’ views in two days about conducting Nisarga Anubhav.”
 
 Trivedi says there are several issues in conducting the census. “We will have to cancel tourist bookings for evening shift on April 30, when the machan census will be conducted. This will cause big financial loss to the park, and also for tourists who have made advance bookings,” he said.
 
 Sources said Trivedi tried to convince Limaye that TATR is already sensitizing young minds by giving free entry to differently-abled school kids and school students in the buffer zone of Tadoba.
 
 The field director is learnt to have said that protection and security is one of the big issues for participants. Trivedi also pointed out that National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA)-approved Tiger Conservation Plan (TCP) has no place for machan census.
 
 Limaye said, “All these issues were discussed and I have asked Tadoba to submit its views in two days.”
 
 In the meanwhile, online machan bookings in Pench Tiger Reserve were stalled on Wednesday owing to a technical snag in the official website (mahaecotourism.nic.in).
 
 Pench field director Ravikiran Govekar said, “There are 180 machans in parks under Pench. Following protection issues, the exercise will not be conducted in Khursapar, East Pench and Paoni.”
 
 Pench is charging Rs1,700 per head for machans in Pench and Bor tiger reserves while it is Rs1,200 for Tipeshwar, Umred-Karhandla and Painganga.
 
 In Melghat Tiger Reserve, which is charging Rs1,500 per head, all the machans were booked online soon after the bookings were opened.
 
 The Navegaon-Nagzira Tiger Reserve (NNTR) is also charging Rs1,500 per head. There will be 105 machans available at Koka, Nagzira, Navegaon, and New Nagzira.
 
 NNTR officials have asked aspirants to download form from mahaforest.gov.in website and submit it before April 22 on dy.directornntr@gmail.com.
 
 
