MUMBAI: Marathon  , they say, is the triumph of desire over reason. But for the ever-smiling 40-year-old runner Prakash Agarwal, it’s more of luck and willpower defying reason.

 In November 2012, Agarwal had a free fall of more than 60 feet, from a 14th-floor terrace till the eighth floor through a sewage duct, before being saved miraculously by an unusually placed air conditioner. He had suffered around 12-14 fractures from his shoulder to his toes, and yet composed himself and pulled himself out of the duct through an opening. The accident forced the Chembur resident out of action for over three months.
 
 Despite serious doubts by his doctors whether he would ever be able to walk properly or rotate his left arm fully, Agarwal came back strongly: he ran a sub-two hour half-marathon in the city in January 2014. 
 
 Next year, he was diagnosed with  , an aggressive non-Hodgkin lymphoma. 
 
 From July 2015, Agarwal underwent several rounds of chemotherapy including 21 sessions of radiation at Tata hospital. After seven months, he was declared cancer-free. Less than a year later, in January 2017, he completed the half   in about two and a half hours.
 
 This Sunday, Agarwal, a chartered accountant who is a director in a global ratings major, will be running his first full marathon.
 
 What prompted Agarwal after his run-ins with fate to go ahead and take on the challenge of a full marathon? “I didn’t want to be dependent on anyone for anything...the very thought that I may have depend on anyone was extremely repulsive,” he said. “During my days of recovery, when I used to be helped by my wife (Puja) and other family members, I used to get very irritated, even for small or no reason.”
 
 For Agarwal, the rehabilitation process after each of the two setbacks was a slow slog. “I set myself short goals. As I reached one goal, I shifted the goal post a little bit farther, set new goals and worked to reach there,” he said. And during those times, “my wife was rock solid. I could see fear in her eyes, but in front of me she never showed any weakness”, he said.
 
 Born to a Marwari business family in the steel city of Durgapur in Bengal, Agarwal did his schooling from Benachity High School and St. Michael’s and went to TDB College in neighbouring Raniganj to complete his graduation.
 
 After qualifying for CA from Kolkata, and professional stints at a leading bank and global research and analytics companies around India, about eight years ago Agarwal joined India Ratings, the Indian arm of global ratings major Fitch. While battling cancer in the hospital bed, he was promoted as co-head. When he returned to work subsequently, it was as head of the firm’s financial institutions practice.
 
 He also has CFA (Chartered Financial Analyst) and FRM (Financial Risk Manager) degrees, both highly respected global certifications for finance professionals, to his name.
 
 Agarwal’s passion for running has rubbed off on his wife Puja as well. Despite being an asthma patient who would find climbing a few steps challenging, she has become a full-fledged runner. She attempted her first long run with Agarwal in January 2017 and completed it in around three and half hours. Subsequently, in the last one year, she has run multiple half marathons. She completed the last one running bare feet in two hours and twenty minutes. 
 
 Other than the illness-related hurdles, Agarwal also had to overcome psychological barriers that were internal as well as external. “One thought that almost always rang through my mind was, ‘Why me?’ The other depressing thing I had to face when I was bed-ridden, was being called ‘bechara’. I know there were no ill-intentions, but it was extremely discouraging...one should never call anyone a bechara,” he said.
 
 Agarwal hasn’t heard about Vince Lombardi, considered the greatest-ever American football player and coach, who had famously said: “It’s not whether you get knocked down; it’s whether you get up.” But he sure is living up to Lombardi’s words.
 
 
