NAGPUR: State discom MSEDCL has proposed to supply power to electric vehicle charging stations at Rs6 per unit. The rate is same for high tension (HT) and low tension (LT) supply. It is lower than industrial and commercial power tariff of the discom. The company plans to start 500 charging stations in the state by 2020. 

 In its tariff petition submitted before   ( ), the discom stated that India is looking towards an all-electric car fleet by 2030. The major factor that will fuel the electric vehicle penetration and its further growth is the establishment of charging stations. 
 
 Charging stations convert AC power to DC, which is required to charge the e-vehicles. The expected fall in prices of energy storage coupled with rapid development and faster adoption of e-vehicle technology will result in spurt in demand of the e-vehicles. In light of the expected growth in electric vehicle ownership and resulting effects on electricity demand, very soon electric vehicle charging will become significant type of load to warrant special tariffs. Therefore, a special tariff category for charging stations is needed.
 
 MSEDCL has received requests from various consumers like Mahindra & Mahindra, ACME Cleantech Solutions, etc for adoption of separate tariff for battery swapping infrastructure to service electric vehicles.
 
 As per November 2016, tariff order hybrid charging stations are categorized under commercial category.   of Regulators, in its report, has proposed a model named privately-owned battery swapping stations. The report has observed that battery swapping will not amount to electricity resale and hence third parties can set up the stations with intimation to the distribution licensee to avail special category tariff.
 
 MSEDCL is having 4,000 locations which includes various offices, switching stations as well as substations where sufficient land is available. Some locations are in close vicinity of highways. In order to serve the users of electric vehicles as well as for optimum utilization of its assets, MSEDCL is planning to establish charging stations at suitable locations and it will be implemented once all the necessary approvals are obtained.
 
 
