MUMBAI: Crime branch cops probing the murder of BBlunt salon executive Kirti Vyas (28) suspect she was strangled by two colleagues minutes after she got into their SUV on March 16. 

  Cops also suspect the duo dumped her body in a nullah near Mahul Port which flows into the sea. Sleuths have found that on that day, Khushi Sahjwani's (42), the firm's academic head, dropped Kirti's subordinate, Siddhesh Tamhankar (28) to their office in Andheri around 10.30am, returned to her Santacruz home, left her SUV there with the body in the trunk, and took a cab back. " Tamhankar planned to dump the body at an isolated spot on the Wadala-Mahul stretch as he knew the area," said an investigator.
 
  
  
 
  "Khushi left the vehicle in her building parking lot as Kirti's body was in the boot. Tamhankar planned to dump the body at an isolated place in Wadala-Mahul stretch as he was familiar with the area having lived there till four years ago," the investigator said. 
 
  According to police, Sahjwani picked the SUV after returning from office, and then, along with Tamhankar, headed to   locality where many refineries are located. The waste from the refineries are released into a nullah that flows into the sea. Sleuths say the duo might have dumped the body in the nullah and it might have flowed in to the sea during high tide or got stuck in mangroves. "Search is on as they dumped the body 50 days ago. We are gathering information from coastal police and other agencies about any body being found since March 16 ," said a crime branch official. 
 
  Vyas' phone was switched off a minute after she was captured on a CCTV camera being offered a lift in the SUV, which had sunshades on its windows, at 9 am. 
 
 An investigator said Tamhankar, who was in the rear seat, used a cloth to strangle her, while Sahjwani was driving the Ford Ecosport along a 2.4 km stretch from MS Ali Road in Grant Road, where the victim lived, to Saat Rasta at Jacob Circle. They then pushed the body into the boot by moving the rear seat.
 
 Kirti was reported missing since then. On Saturday, the crime branch cracked the case and arrested the duo after a DNA test of blood stains found in the SUV matched with her parents.
 
 Exploring various angles, an investigator said that a month before the murder, Kirti had issued a non-performance memo to Tamhankar and he was directed to show improvement in his work by March 16. On that day, Tamhankar and Sahjwani reached MS Ali Road in Grant Road and waited outside Kirti's building for almost 40 minutes, the call data record (CDR) of the accused showed. "They did not call or text Kirti that they were there. They had studied Kirti's schedule of catching a train from Grant Road railway station. So, on the last day of the notice period, Sahjwani drove from her home in Santacruz to Parel, where she picked up Tamhankar, and headed to Grant Road. They waited till Kirti stepped out of her home around 8.50am. Tamhankar offered lift to Kirti saying he wanted to discuss the notice she had issued to him," said an investigator.
 
 Initially when police were probing her disappearance, the duo claimed to have dropped her near the Grant Road railway station. However, footage from a CCTV camera in the locality showed that the SUV did not stop near the station to drop her.
 
 
