COIMBATORE: Has the idea of harvesting rainwater, storing it and supplying the excess water to the city corporation ever struck you? That’s what the principal scientific officer with the   State Council for Science and Technology, A R Shivakumar, motivated the members of   to do here on Friday.

 “There is no water shortage. In fact, just like any renewable energy, people can harvest water,   it and supply excess water to the corporation,” he said.
 
 Having created a similar successful model in Bengaluru, where Bosche uses only stored rainwater and even supply it to the local body, Shivakumar said any city can replicate it.
 
 Members of the Kongu Global Forum have pledged to set up 10 million such structures in seven districts of Coimbatore, Salem, Erode, Namakkal, Pollachi, Tirupur and  .
 
 “Rooftop rainwater harvesting and storing structures are the need of the hour. In Coimbatore and other parts of the state only underground harvesting structures are set up. There is a need for a lot of awareness as we are losing all the rainwater. Every house needs to set up a rooftop rainwater harvesting structure and implement certain engineering techniques to store the same. That is why we brought Shivakumar, who has done exceptional work in Karnataka,” said Vanitha Mohan, managing trustee of Siruthuli.
 
 She said Siruthuli would spearhead the project in the district. “We will create a park and showcase the technology, which is very simple. We will also take it up with the civic body to implement it in a large-scale in schools, hospitals and corporates,” Vanitha Mohan added.
 
 Shivakumar, who lives in Bengaluru, does not get any water from the corporation and uses only the stored rainwater. “We ensure that we do not waste water. This is very simple and if done on a large-scale, we can save a lot of our resources,” he said and added that each house could easily store 2 lakh litre water in every rain.
 
 “Small engineering changes such as using porous pavement blocks, setting up drainage holes near houses to ensure that excess water enters the drains and not the roads, setting up rainwater harvesting and storing structures in public locations such as parks and swimming pools. This is not only cost-effective, but also reform various rural areas where water shortage is a major issue,” Shivakumar said.
 
 Shivakumar is expected to share the technology with the NGOs and help them set up these structures in some locations.
 
 
