GURUGRAM: The Union home ministry has written to the Haryana chief secretary seeking appropriate action and a follow-up report, regarding the   (CVC) complaint against  . 

 The complaint was filed by Jyotsna Bhardwaj, who had accused Arora of harassing her and misusing her power and position while she was posted in Gurugram as IG (vigilance). The letter to the Haryana chief secretary was sent by the under-secretary at the Union home ministry.
 
 “I am directed to refer to the subject to forward herewith a copy of the complaint dated 17.04.2017 received from Jyotsna Bhardwaj, through the central vigilance commission, against Bharti Arora, IPS, alleging harassment, corruption and misuse of official position. It is requested that appropriate action be taken in the matter and a detailed report sent to this ministry urgently,” says the letter.
 
 Gurugram resident and former model Jyotsna Bhardwaj had first levelled allegations against Arora in February 2017. She had claimed the senior Haryana   officer had been harassing her to drop her charges of exploitation and cheating against her husband, Ajay Bhardwaj, under the influence of her sister-in-law Chanchal Bhardwaj, who she claimed is a close friend of the IPS officer.
 
 On Tuesday, Jyotsna said, “Arora has been harassing me ever since I stood up against her. She has also got false complaints filed against my name. I want speedy action against her for misusing her power.”
 
 Repeated attempts to contact chief secretary D S Dhesi proved futile. But the accused, Arora was available. She dismissed the letter as routine down-marking of a case file. 
 
 “It’s routine office procedure, where ministries down-mark files to concerned states and departments,” said Arora, confident that the complaint against her is “baseless”.
 
 “This is not her [Jyotsna] first attempt to malign my image. Like all her previous attempts, this too shall fall flat. Two of the cases she has filed against me have been quashed, with the local court even noting they were filed to put pressure on me and deter me from my duty. Given these facts, one can understand the motive behind this frivolous complaint,” said Arora.
 
 
 
