CHENNAI: In what could trigger a controversy, Tamil Nadu governor   has appointed K Srinivasan as the secretary of assembly. This is the fourth promotion for Srinivasan in less than two years. The order issued on Saturday, came a day after the Madras high court issued notice to the secretary of governor, on a petition filed by two senior officials of the assembly secretariat, accusing speaker P Dhanapal of getting his special secretary the job. Srinivasan assumed charge on Monday.

 “The governor of Tamil Nadu after consultation with the Speaker, TN legislative assembly, hereby orders the following appointment (of K Srinivasan),” the order said.   has been promoted and appointed, subject to the outcome of the writ petitions pending before the high court, vice  , secretary, superannuated on February 28. 
 
 The case – filed by additional secretary,   and joint secretary  , both seniors to Srinivasan, comes up for hearing on Tuesday. As per TN Assembly Rules, the secretary is authorised to summon the House.
 
 The 54-year-old officer joined the assembly secretariat as reporter in 1995 and went on to become chief reporter in 2010. He was made joint secretary (editor of debates) in 2016, and subsequently additional secretary (editor of debates) and thereafter special secretary in December last. “I will do my best in the present post,” Srinivasan told TOI. The petitioners, however, alleged that “service rules pertaining to the TN legislative assembly are thrown to the winds and are twisted and shredded to pieces to favour Srinivasan and to appoint him as secretary by hook or crook after the retirement of the incumbent (Bhoopathy).”
 
 According to the petitioners, secretary to assembly was not only an administrative post in charge of the administration of the secretariat, but also a dual role of secretary of the assembly as well. These functions are alien to persons, who are working in the reporting wing, whose only task is merely recording and transcribing debates throughout their length of their service. 
 
 
