HYDERABAD: Three separate traffic blocks triggered the cancellation of several trains under   (SCR), leaving many commuters in the lurch. Passengers complained that they were facing a lot of problems for the last few weeks as the railway authorities go on cancelling or rescheduling trains due to operational reasons. 

 
 The traffic block imposed in Solapur wadi section of   due to the commissioning of a double line between Akkalkot Road and Nagansur stations prompted SCR to cancel eight train services from May 24 to 30.
 
 Daily commuters of Hyderabad-Bijapur, Bijapur-Bolarum, Bolarum-Hyderabad, Bijapur-Raichur, Raichur-Bijapur, Solapur-Guntakal, Guntakal-Gulbarga and Guntakal-Solapur, are facing inconveniences after the cancellation. Three trains - Yasvantpur-Solapur Express, Solapur-Yasvantpur Express and   passenger - will also be partially cancelled between Solapur and Gulbarga stations in the last week of this month.
 
 Besides, the railway authorities have decided to divert the routes of nine trains, including Hyderabad-Mumbai CSMT Hussainsagar Express and Secunderabad-Rajkor Express, which will ply via Vikarabad, Latur Road and Kurduvadi stations, temporarily. 
 
 Lokmanya Tilak-Visakhapatnam Express and Bhubaneswar-Mumbai CSMT   will be diverted to ply via Secunderabad for the time being.
 
 Another traffic block, imposed to facilitate bridge works for insertion of RCC boxes between Tenali-Vemur stations in Repalle and Tenali section, led to the cancellation of six DEMU passenger services between Repalle and Guntur, Guntur and Repalle and Repalle and Tenali on May 27.
 
 The third traffic block, which came up in the Duand-Manmad section of Central Railway for track renewal between Vambori and Rahuri stations, caused the termination of four passenger trains between Pune and   and Nizamabad and Pandharpur from May 24 to June 18. The services of HS Nanded-Daund Express and its return pair will also remain suspended from May 24 to June 16 due to the traffic block.
 
