Ludhiana: Parents of the two   who had   in the Sidhwan canal near Loahar bridge have accused cops of inaction and being indifferent to their plea that their children might have been killed. Daba police had proceeded the case under 174CrPC. The parents have charged an 8-year-old son of their neighbour with having allegedly pushed their sons into the canal. The hapless parents are doing rounds of the police station seeking justice even after two months of that fateful day. 

 On Monday, the parents with some sympathisers staged a silent protest outside the office of the commissioner of police R N Dhoke carrying posters of their kids and demanding justice. The case dates back to November 10 last year when Karkit Kumar, 13 and Rahul Kumar, 11 of Daba colony allegedly drowned in the Sidhwan canal. According to cops, the duo along with a boy in the neighbourhood had gone to a fast food stall alongside the canal when one of the boys saw a coconut in the canal and jumped to grab it. When he did not return his brother also jumped and both got drowned. However their friend out of fear, rushed back home. 
 
 Father of deceased Vijay Kumar, a driver, alleged that the 8-year-old son of his neighbour pushed them into the canal. He added, “Many son was carrying Rs 50 and I feel they must have had a fight over the amount after which the boy pushed my sons into the canal.” 
 
 Taking swipes at police, he added, “We have been visiting the police station for the past two months but officials do not listen to our pleas. The police have proceeded with 174 CrPC in this case without informing us. My wife and I are illiterate and fail to do fathom what the cops are upto.” Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP-II) Sandeep Sharma met the parents and pacified them. 
 
 Sharma said, “We have already questioned the 8-year-old boy who accompanied the brothers but are yet to unravel the truth. However the parents have again approached the police today seeking reinvestigation. The boy is very young and police cannot be harsh with him. However I will personally question the boy now.”
 
 
