MADURAI: Residents of K Pudur in the city have appealed to the   commissioner to desilt a tank in their area, which has turned into a sewage tank. The corporation commissioner,   was on a visit to the locality on Wednesday where he inspected various works including the storm water drainage being constructed in   street at a cost of Rs 9.90 lakh and shelter for the homeless near the Annaiyur bus stand which is being built for Rs 29 lakh. He also reviewed the road paving work.

 When he visited   in zone two, residents requested the commissioner to desilt the   tank, which used to one of their major water sources. “The commissioner found that this tank had become a sewage storage pond and ordered action against people discharging their waste into the tank. It was then we decided to take the opportunity to ask him to desilt the water body,” said A   of Manmalaimedu.
 
 He said that the tank which is in the cascading system, and carries water from the hills in   region to the   tank, had been brimming and had a good aquatic ecosystem, even three decades ago. “We grew up bathing and catching fish here, but now the stench from the sewage is unbearable,” he said.
 
 Pushpa, a resident said that almost all the borewells in their area became dry, after this tank dried up and debris and garbage gathered at the bottom. Even the sewage was getting stagnated and mosquitoes were breeding in large numbers.
 
 “If this tank is desilted it would put an end to many of our problems as we would have water in our borewells and need not purchase ground water for Rs 50 a drum, or depend solely on the corporation water which is supplied only once in four days,” she said.
 
 Residents say that steps should be taken to remove the encroachments on this tank which had now shrunk a few acres from about 20 acres originally. They alleged that nothing has been done in the past 20 years, though many councillors have claimed that they desilted it. The residents are now keeping their fingers crossed hoping that the commissioner will keep his word and desilt the tank and the Kosakulam channel which brings water to it.
 
 
