A group of professors and teachers from NIFT, Delhi, has already started working on a survey, under the aegis of the Ministry of Textiles. As part of the research, 25,000 men and women across six major cities will be measured using 3D whole body scanners.
“The Indian apparel industry uses size charts that are tweaked versions of the ones from other countries and made from the manufacturer’s instinct and experience, rather than proven scientific study. This usually results in fits that leave a lot to be desired. Providing well-fitted garments in the absence of a standardised size chart is proving to be a big challenge for the domestic textile and apparel industry. India is attempting to undertake its own anthropometric survey to take care of disparities and inconsistencies in apparel sizing systems and provided fits,” says Noopur Anand, a professor from the department of fashion technology, NIFT, Delhi, and a principle investigator of the project. The India size chart will not only help desi buyers identify their accurate size, but also serve as a blueprint for designers and retailers in catering to Indian customers better. Most women are already looking forward to the chart, as they think it might help in ‘breaking stereotypes around the ideal body type and will also make online shopping easier’. 
 
 Fashion designer   Wadhwani, who runs an online shopping site says, “The proportions of the Indian woman are much in contrast compared to European or American women. We are more curvy and voluptuous compared to our counterparts who are more athletic and linear in shape. We come across so many women who do not identify themselves to a particular UK/US size chart and for the same reason, we do customised orders in their measurements to get the right fit. After the introduction of the Indian size chart, I am sure it will be much more convenient for them to shop online and identify their perfect size.”
 
 To this, a faculty member at Priyadarshini College of Engineering, Urmi Chakravorty adds, “Going by US and UK sizes has been tad too confusing. A lot of times when we think of buying   of international brands online, we have to browse through other sites for the conversion. So having our own chart would be highly beneficial; we can directly opt for clothes of our size.” Echoing similar concern, Samuel Anthony says, “Just classifying   sizes into small, medium, large or extra-large is not at all enough. If we have a proper chalked out chart focussing on Indian body sizes, then it will save our alteration rounds for sure.” 
 
  Patil, winner OPPO Nagpur Times Fresh Face 2017 feels it’s a combine aid for shopper of all body types. She adds, “Many a time, when I hunt for my size in the malls, I get depressed because nothing fits me. Also, with standardised size chart available for Indian body types, I will not have to get into the tedious process of exchanging or returning clothes after buying online; it will online shopping easy.” 
 “We hope the Indian size chart will be designed keeping a typical Indian woman in mind,” says a fashion blogger Dipasha Patil adding, “Not everyone has a perfect body. I mostly opt for the starting size, XS for tops, according to UK size chart, but sometimes even they look huge and do not fit me. There are some brands that do not even provide this as an option. I feel we need an Indian size chart will not only solve the problem for apparels but also for footwear.” 
 
