LUDHIANA: Hundreds of students gathered at the Sarabha Nagar Leisure valley parking on Tuesday, seeking punishment for the rapists and killers of of 8-year-old girl Asifa. A memorandum was signed by all the youngsters to demand punishment for not only the rapists but for those as well who defended the accused and carried out protests demanding their acquittal.

 The event was spearheaded by the members of a city based NGO,  , who had called out a youth gathering in the city in the light of the recent rape cases of   and   to demand punishment for the rapists and their defenders.
 
 The organisers said the intention behind organising this event was to help the youth realize that how some political and groups with vested interests gave the whole tragedy a Hindu –Muslim twist to defend the rapists. They added that the event was called to show the world that the youth stand together in their condemnation of the incidents. 
 
 Giving details about the event, Gauravdeep Singh, the founder-cum-president of Initiators of Change said, “Today we stand in a world where some people are continuously waiting for a chance to put us all into a religious and communal fight. They are putting out communal tweets and rallies so that the real issue of the rape of an 8-year-old girl can be shadowed away with people fighting for religion. Now it is upto us whether to become a puppet of those evils or think rationally and stand together for justice and humanity. We chose a leader from whom we expect safety and justice but if a lawmaker is accused of rape today then this is the worst time we can live in. Hence, we request the prime minister to take strict action and not only suspend the accused and those defending the accused, but also issue a written apology taking the responsibility of the accused MLA of UP government.”
 
 Talking about the power of youth, the executive director of Initiators of Change, Deepak Rajak said, “Today, with the aid of social media, gathering youngsters is not a tough task. We can either light candles and sit in silence or we can help make our youngsters aware. We feel that the youth today have the power to make or shake any government and the politicians must remember that.”
 
 It is good that we have come together in this hour. I get goosebumps thinking that an 8-year-old went through such pain at the hands of those men. I strongly believe that we should have laws like China, Iran and Iraq where rapists’ names are brought to books with few days but here it takes four years to get punishment to such criminals.
 
 
 
 
 Instead of strengthening the country, political parties are doing the opposite by communalizing heinous crimes. We demand death penalty for the rapists and that too in a shortest possible time.
 
 
 
 I feel sick to my gut hearing about such heinous acts in our country. Crime against minors are on the rise. Government needs to take some step to stop this immediately. 
 
 
 
 
 
