VARANASI: French President   will get a glimpse of the life of Lord Ram through play 'Chitrakoot', the 'Pushpak Viman (chariot)' of the world famous Bharat Milap of Nati Imali and Ramleela episodes at Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Trade Facilitation Centre during his visit to the abode of Lord Shiva on Monday. After watching the play, he will take a boat ride in the Ganga. 

 As the city is all set to give a warm welcome to the French President, the ministry of tourism along with North Central Zone Cultural Centre is making all efforts to showcase the cultural richness of Varanasi and make the VVIP guest aware of the legends associated with the place.
 
 Right from the open auditorium of DDU-TFC to the ghats along river Ganga, artistes could be seen busy rehearsing to put up an impresive before Macron and PM  . 
 
 Once Macron reaches DDU centre at 12.35 pm from the   to visit the handloom and handicraft exhibition of eastern UP at the textile museum, play 'Chitrakoot' based on Ramcharit Manas will be staged at the open auditorium. Art director of cultural events   said that the play would showcase the life of Lord Ram during his 14-year exile.
 
 On reaching Assi Ghat at 1.50 pm, Macron will be given a traditional welcome with showering of flower petals, Shehnai recital and chanting of ' ' mantras by a team of 121 Brahmins. Amidst sound of 'shankh' and 'damru', he will be shown the 'Pushpak Viman'. After boarding Bajra for a 20-minute boat ride with the PM, Macron will watch the episodes of Ramleela and recital of Ramcharit Manas, while passing through Tulsi Ghat.
 
 At Prabhu and Chetsingh ghats, artistes will enact the episode of first sermon by Lord Buddha to his five disciples. Naga Sadhus with 'Bhasmi Shringar' will be present at Akhada Sri Niranjini Ghat. Recital of Sant Kabir's poetries will be done at Mansarovar Ghat. Banaras Gharanas' Kathak and classical instrumental music will be performed at Pandey and Chausatti ghats. Folk music and dance performance will be seen by Macron before the end of his boat ride at Dashaswamedh Ghat.
 
 
