Ajmer: The Sarva Rajput Samaj Sangharsh Samiti on Wednesday gave an ultimatum to Vasundhara Raje government to withdraw all cases filed against the community leaders over the Sanvrad incident by June 3. The Rajput leaders have threatened that the community would make Rajasthan ‘BJP mukt’ in the coming state elections if their demand was not met.

 Several Rajput leaders were booked for the violence during the memorial meeting held for slain gangster Anandpal Singh at his village Sanvard in July last year. The matter is currently being probed by the CBI.
 
 The community leaders alleged that the state government was acting out of vengeance against Rajput leaders and seizing the community’s service institutes and forcing recoveries even from its non-profit institutes.
 
 The   threatened that they would vote against BJP in the state assembly elections this year as well as in the general elections in 2019. The community from Wednesday started a campaign against the ruling party from Ajmer and would go to different divisions and end it on June 3 and then decide on a mass agitation against the party.
 
 Leaders like Giriraj Singh Lotwada, president of the sangharsh samiti; Sukhdev Singh Gogamedi, national president, Rashtriya Karni Sena; Durga Singh Khemsae; Ranjeet Singh Losal; Mahender Singh Kadel, president of Jaimal Trust Pushkar; Chandrabhan Singh Rathore and leaders from Ravana Rajput community would take part in the campaign.
 
 These leaders said that Raje government has worked against Rajputs and on July 18, 2017, there was a compromise that all criminal cases against Rajput leaders would be withdraw. However, Rajput leaders were booked in false cases and Nagaur police had sent a notice to Gogamedi and other leaders for investigation.
 
 “In the matter of April 2 violence during a bandh called by Dalit organizations, the chief minister decided to withdraw cases against Dalits, but she has not respected the promise made to the Rajputs,” said Lotwada.
 
 The community also demanded reservation for Kirsa Krishak Rajput community, ban on shooting of movies like Padmaavat in Rajasthan, exemption to social organizations of Rajputs from UD tax, no action against the accused of Samrao incident of Jodhpur and no change in shape of historical monuments of Rajputs. The Lirti Stambh was built by maharaja Ganga Singh in Bikaner in 1912 but Bikaner administration by mistake added names of Kargil martyrs, the community leaders said.
 
 The community also demanded land for Major Shaitan Singh Rajput Hostel in Ajmer.
 
 Rajput leaders said that in this government, Rajputs have struggle a lot but the state government was not hearing their problems. “We therefore voted against BJP in Ajmer bypolls and we will do again,” they said.
 
 The samiti will move to different divisions like Kota, Udaipur, Bharatpur and on June 1, it will have a meeting in Bharatpur in which Rajputs will take a call on mass protest in the state. The community will also organize ‘swabhiman yatra’ in the state in coming months.
 
 
