BENGALURU: MP and   leader   on Monday said the only people who can “play the game of politics are those who’ve amassed wealth illegally,” as the country has allowed politics to be taken over by the wealthy.

 At a discussion on the book ‘Reasoning Indian Politics’ by Prof   and  , he said: “We are in denial about the costs of democracy. For democracy to continue functioning, we need full-time politicians whose careers are defined by campaigns and running machineries that are expensive.”
 
 Arguing that the system’s facade of laws that limit spending and a host of others that aim at making elections accessible to all have only managed to drive expenses underground, he said “the money for this is collected by shaking down corporates or through kickbacks and bribery.”
 
 “Eventually this money is used to buy votes. The Indian voter seems alright with this system. He thinks of elections as a festival and is enjoying the festivity. But to get to him, each party or candidate needs a narrative, and that’s where the reasoning and logic is,” he said.
 
  Conceding to other speakers’ opinion that symbols—from Gandhiji’s salt to Indira Gandhi’s ‘Garibi Hatao’ and the right wing’s Hindutva agenda—have become part of the Indian political narrative, Gowda said corruption too is one such symbol today.
 
 “While the Mandal and Masjid symbols were playing out (between 1989 and 1992), our government came to power in 1991. If you look at our manifesto then, you will find no mention of the word liberalisation. But we had to embrace it, and that became a symbol,” he said. 
 
 Pointing out that even today the election meetings of the Congress find no space for any philosophy other than that of wanting power, he said: “But there’s a reason. The reasoning is that we will do better than the others.”
 
 “The logic of objectivity was kept for policy making through the planning commission and the logic or reasoning of subjectivity that included people’s psychology was kept for politics,” Pani said.
 
 
