MOHALI: The local bodies department has issued a letter to the Mohali municipal corporation (MC) cancelling the order for the purchase of  . The department has also directed the MC to initiate the money recovery process from the company.

 The purchase of tree pruning machine caused a controversy after local bodies minister   had alleged mayor   had connived to pay Rs 1.69 crore to buy the machine available for Rs 25 lakh.
 
 Local bodies director   said, “I am in Delhi for a meeting. If I remember, the letter has been issued but I can only confirm it by tomorrow.”
 
 Sources said the letter was received three days back. It stated that according to the vetting report, the machine is overpriced and recommended not to be purchased. The vetting review of the machine was conducted by a chief engineer of the local bodies department.
 
 The letter also stated that irregularities have also been found in the deal as MC has released the partial payment for the machine before receiving the vetting report and issuance of the work orders to the supplier.
 
 The letter also directed MC to initiate the money recovery process as it has already made a part payment of Rs 89 lakh to the company.
 
 MC commissioner Sandeep Hans said, “The company has also written a letter as notice of dispute for releasing the full and final payment and take possession of machine lest they may also impose the damages.”
 
 The local bodies department had taken the decision based upon the probe conducted by the vigilance cell and the orders initiating action issued against the officials found guilty in the report of the Chief Vigilance Officer (CVO).
 
 Notably, Kulwant Singh and all the 50 councillors outrightly opposed the vetting report during the MC house meeting submitted by an officer appointed by Punjab government to assess the actual cost of the machine.
 
 The councillors demanded that the machine is lying un-used with the company and the MC must put it to use. Councillors, said, “We can consider the government objection later, but till then the machine must be operated as residents have been waiting for it for past year. Neither the MC has conducted exercise to prune the overgrown trees nor is the machine being used to give relief to residents. Good cause must not be hindered. The government has been sidelining the developmental agenda being passed by the MC, which delays in delivery of public works.”
 
 Kulwant Singh said, “The machine has been approved by the house and has been imported from  . It not only prunes overgrown trees but also washes high mast signages and other boards along the roadside. It can also be used to wash the high mast lights and poles. This machine has got multiple usages and will be first in Punjab.”
 
 
