There's no doubt about the fact that 
  is the reigning queen of Bollywood, whether it's her power-packed performances or her impeccable charm, the actress never fails to impress us. But, you totally have to give it to her when it comes to being fashionable!

 One of the most stylish actresses in Bollywood, the diva ensures she dresses to perfection, always. And, though a lot has been said about the quirky dressing sense of her alleged boyfriend, Ranveer Singh, you will never spot Deepika looking anything less than flawless.
 
 From sexy beachwear to elegant saris, cute denims to racy hot pants, Deepika dons each outfit with equal panache. And, we actually can't remember a look we have not liked.
 
 From her ramp modelling days to her last release, the actress has surely come a long way when it comes to fashion. And because her sartorial choices are worth a dekko.
 
 We bring to you 
  & most stunning looks :
 
 
 
 Who can forget Deepika's golden gown look at the Filmfare Awards 2013. The actress completely floored us with her golden charm in a risque outfit put together by none other than ace designer Gaurav Gupta.
 
 
 Deepika wore a custom made black sari by Sabyasachi Mukherjee a few months back and had everyone going weak in their knees. The sari with a modern twist featured an embellished skirt and a bralette design blouse and boy, Deepika totally killed in this ensemble.
 
 
  
  
 On her debut at Festival de Cannes last year, the actress donned a gorgeous Marchesa gown. The plum gown was made of a see-through fabric and yes, it left us totally speechless.
 
 
 Much before she made it to the movies, Deepika hit headlines with her photoshoot for a leading calendar. Dressed in classy bikinis, Deepika set the temperature soaring.
 
 
 Deepika looked like a complete ramp slayer at FDCI India Couture Week in 2016, as she turned showstopper for Bollywood's favourite designer Manish Malhotra. Dressed in a red-hot lehenga with a dramatic never-ending trail, Deepika was complete hit on the ramp.
 
 
 Deepika's recent photoshoot for Filmfare magazine left us with a lot of beach fashion goals. The shoot has Deepika setting the beach on fire, courtesy her classy beachwear. From sexy monokinis to classy swimsuits, Deepika has worn them all.
 
 
 Deepika Padukone was the hottest diva on the red carpet at the Filmfare Awards 2013 when she charmed her fans in a black figure-hugging gown. The doe-eyed diva not just raised the mercury levels in the racy outfit but also drew a lot of praises for her svelte frame. Looking picture perfect in the glamorous gown with some interesting cuts at the back and a wide plunging neckline, Deepika was the centre of attraction at the event.
 
 
 One of her most memorable outings, Deepika grabbed international eyeballs in her classy look at Met Gala 2017. Spotted in a white backless gown by Tommy Hilfiger with embellishments on the hemline and the straps extending to her back, Deepika left us asking for more. 
 
 
 At after party of Mumbai premiere of xXx: The Xander Cage, Deepika slayed in a sexy red tasseled backless mini dress by Ashish. 
 
 
 Trust this fashionista to make a satin white blazer look so good and slay in a sheer black fishnet outfit at the same time. 
 
 
 
  
  
 Doesn't Deepika totally slay in red?
 
 
 
  
  
 Ms Padukone looks best in dresses.
 
 
 
  
  
 When does she not look good?
 
 
  
  
 The true symbol of simplicity.
 
 
  
  Looking so regal.
 
 
  
  
 Deepika looks stunning in this sheer gown.
 
 
 
  
  
 Deepika's clearly fairest of them all, when it comes to fashion.
 
 
 
  
  
 A vision in black.
 
 
  
  
 Deepika looks like a true Indian beauty.
 
 
  
  
 Deepika totally rocked the MTV EMA in a Monisha Jaising ensemble.
