PHAGWARA: It is not for the first time that this industrial town on the National Highway No. 1 is tense. In the past too there have been quite a few instances when the town hit headlines for wrong reasons but while earlier incidents had communal overtones, this time conflict has followed caste lines. 

 Both the Dalit and   groups — and there are several on either side — have been active in the town for the last several years but this is the second instance of major faceoff. Earlier, Dalits and Sikh activists had come out in the support Muslims when right wing groups pelted stones at a mosque and attacked shops on July 22, 2016. They even chased away Hindu activists at that time. However, police brokered peace after Shiv Sena leaders apologized and promised that in future they would not issue any statement or resort to a protest which would hurt Muslims or other communities. 
 
 Apart from at least four factions of Shiv Sena, there are a few other Hindu groups active in the town. At the same time there are several Dalit groups active in the town, including at least two named Ambedkar Sena, one of which   ( ) is at the centre of controversy this time.
 
 “Phagwara has remained a trouble spot for several years and every time the approach has been day-to-day management rather than acting tough and resolving the issues,” said an administrative official who served in the town in the past. 
 
 The different groups blame each other.
 
 “Dalit groups are active not only in   but in other places of the state also but here the right wing groups have been interfering in protests or programes of other communities. Every time police and administration treated them with kid gloves and let them off in place of acting tough. In the past same set of people had clashes with Muslims, Sikhs and now Dalits,” said  , who has contested assembly election twice from the seat – once on BSP ticket and in 2017 on Lok Insaaf Party ticket.
 
 Incidentally, his name also figures in the FIR this time while he argues that he was rather roped in by the administration to diffuse the tension and that is why he went to the site along with officials.
 
  “Everybody has the right to protest including the right wing Hindu groups and others have never intervened in their events, they have been intervening in others’ protests. They wish to stay in limelight by creating controversies or clashes so that they can have gunmen around them,” claimed Sikh activist  , who had led Sikh activists in joining Muslims and Dalits in 2016.
 
 However Shiv Sena (Punjab) spokesperson Vipin Sharma said that there were a few troublemakers in the town whose names figured during every controversy. “These fellows are among Hindu groups, as well as, in other communities and they keep on creating tension so that can keep the officials under pressure for their own vested interests and get their personal tasks done,” he said.
 
 
