NEW DELHI: The current Manchester United coach’s list is long and infamous. A look at his spats...

 
 
  
  
 
 “I cannot compare the way he trains and commits, the focus, the ambition. He is a long way behind.” So said   a year ago, contrasting a then-21-year-old Luke Shaw with some of his Manchester United teammates. Things only seem to have deteriorated between them in the 12 months since, and Mourinho has continued to criticise his beleaguered left-back. Yet for all the titles and trophies the Portuguese won at Porto, Chelsea, Inter and Real Madrid, plenty of his playing staff have found themselves in the crosshair of the self-styled “happy one”.
 
 
 
 The Portuguese defender was the go-to guy for a number of Mourinho sides, lifting the Champions League alongside his compatriot at Porto, before spells in the trenches at Chelsea and Real Madrid. A fine defender in his prime, it wasn’t always rosy between the pair, though. Carvalho was unhappy after losing his place to William Gallas for the first game of the 2005/06 season, and Mourinho was quick to bring down the hammer on his player for sniping his discontent in the press. “Ricardo Carvalho seems to have problems understanding things; maybe he should have an IQ test,” the Blues boss said.
 
 
  
  
 
 Mourinho faced a tough task during his spell as Real Madrid manager: attempting to overthrow Barcelona, while persuading Cristiano Ronaldo to follow his gameplan. Never one to back down, Mourinho hinted that Ronaldo needed to improve his understanding of the game from a tactical perspective — helping to hammer the nail in his own coffin as boss. “I had only one problem, which was when a coach criticises a player from a tactical viewpoint trying to improve what, in my view, could have been improved.”
 
 
  
  
 
 Hazard enjoyed two productive campaigns under Mourinho during his second spell at Chelsea between 2013 and 2015, netting 14 goals in each of the 2013/14 and 2014/15 campaigns – the latter a Premier League-winning season. But despite their domestic success together, the pair exchanged bitter words in the press following Chelsea’s Champions League exit at the hands of Atletico Madrid. After Hazard explained to French media that Chelsea “were not set up to play football”, Mourinho fired back. “It’s normal because he’s not the kind of player ready to sacrifice himself 100% for the team,” he claimed.
 
 
  
  
 
 De Bruyne is favourite for the 2018 PFA Player of the Year award after a breath-taking season with Manchester City — and how Chelsea must be kicking themselves for letting the Belgian wizard leave in 2014. Mourinho was unwilling to give him the minutes he craved during his days at Stamford Bridge. “With De Bruyne, if you have a player knocking on your door and crying every day he wants to leave, you have to make a decision,” Mourinho said in 2015.
 
 
  
  
 
 A player who regularly featured in the Portugal national team, Pepe also spent 10 seasons at Real Madrid. As an influential member of the dressing room, Pepe felt it was his place to defend Los Blancos legend   after Mourinho dropped the World Cup winner. As the centre-back defended his skipper, Mourinho saw a motive. “Pepe has a problem. And his name is Raphael Varane,” said Mourinho in 2013, in reference to Madrid’s emerging French defender.
 
 
