KOLKATA : With the US considering new regulations aimed at preventing the extension of   visas, there is a sense of uncertainty among a large section of Indian IT professionals. Many of those who are staying in the US and waiting for their green cards are worried.

 According to   senior director Ayananshu Banerjee, rather than affecting companies on both sides, this will have more of a “personal impact” on the resources who might have to return to Kolkata. “The companies will eventually find ways to resolve this at a corporate level,”   said.
 
 
  The bigger impact will be on campus recruitment, said an IT analyst from Sector V. “People used to say that they had a ‘golden life’ in IT but that’s not true anymore. Hikes are 50% less and this will certainly result in brain drain from IT,” he explained. 
 
 Reacting to the latest move on prevention of H-1B visa extensions,   on Wednesday said any disruptive move on the visa front will be detrimental for both India and the US. “Given that there is a real problem of shortage of skilled professionals in the US, any disruptive move will be detrimental for both the countries,” Nasscom president   said. According to Nasscom, in the last two years, there has been a 50% fall in use of US visas by Indian IT firms.
 
 According to an associate director of an IT major with operations in Sector V, US-based IT projects have 25% of the workforce from India. “If Trump’s decision is implemented, we will have surplus supply of IT professionals in India,” he said. One fifth of his company’s workforce is currently in the US. “All have gone on H-1B visa. My suspicion is that 15% to 20% spouses of these employees are working with H4 visa. If   discontinues the spouse visa, it will add to the worries. Brain drain from the IT sector is also on the cards,” he said.
 
 Most of the IT professionals in the US are into end-customer facing roles. “This means they are more into getting requirements, working of the overall design and less into coding. If the proposal is implemented, they will not have jobs when they return to India,” he said.
 
 Nasscom feels this proposed legislation has conditions that are not only tedious for getting a visa but also put a question mark on how these work permits can be used. “It is one more step in a series of steps seen over the last one year. While each one individually may have a small impact, cumulatively the impact becomes very significant,” the Nasscom chairperson added.
 
 
