New Delhi: Amid mounting   of   attacking people on the  , Union minister   on Wednesday suggested that a   be   where people can   as leftovers strewn on campus attract animals. She also invited suggestions from the resident doctors’ association (RDA) on the issue.

 RDA president, AIIMS, Harjit Singh Bhatti, had written to Gandhi seeking intervention in keeping patients and staff safe from dogs and monkeys on the institute’s premises.
 
 In the letter, Bhatti had stated that there has been a steep rise in the number of dogs and monkeys on the hospital premises and the patients were being attacked regularly. 
 
 In her response, Gandhi said she was distressed to know about the situation and offered to provide help of NGOs to deal with dogs by sterilising and vaccinating them. However, she said the same cannot be done with monkeys as this has no effect on its behaviour. 
 
 “The basic problem in AIIMS is the easy availability of food. If this is strictly monitored, then all these animals will disappear overnight. Otherwise we can keep removing dogs and monkeys but they will be replaced overnight by new groups. Is it possible for you to do anything about the food?” she asked.
 
 She suggested to have demarcated areas where people could eat and closed dustbins where leftovers and wrappers be thrown. She also suggested that an audio message be played on loudspeakers informing people of the dangers of sharing food with animals and throwing food on the premises. “They can be asked to eat at a particular place. I suggest you think about this and come up with doable ideas. Then I would be happy to have a meeting on your premises or at my office and call all the people necessary to help you,” she said in the letter.
 
 The RDA’s letter stated that around 3-4 persons (including patients, doctors, student, professors) per day and around 100 persons per month are bitten by these animals and receive anti-rabies vaccine. Doctors had complained about the issue to Gandhi when she was admitted to AIIMS in June last year. 
 
 
