
BHOPAL: A bison died due to fatal injuries it sustained during a fight at   on Sunday. As per park officials, the twoyear-old bison was born in the national park on November 2, 2015.
 
 Park director Sameeta Rajora said, “In March 2011, a male bison was brought from  , while a female bison was brought from   the same month. The female bison later gave birth to three male bisons, of which one died on Sunday. The bison were kept in a cage at Van Vihar for public display. The three bisons have been living together for past several years, but on Sunday the eldest bison attacked on youngest one and killed it.” Park officials said, “During the incident, it was raining heavily, due to which the guard deployed there had left the place. However, when he returned to the closure, he could not see one of the three bisons. When he went to the cage he saw one of them lying down unconscious. When the guard felt something fishy, he called the officials. When the bison was taken out of the cage the doctor declared it dead. After autopsy, doctors claimed that the deceased bison’s heart and lungs had got ruptured due to attack.”
 
 
 
 
 
 The three-year-old Bandhavgarh tigress is still critical and isn’t responding to medical treatment. According to Van Vihar officials, the tigress T-70, which had come here for treatment in June, is unable to stand on its legs.
 
 On Monday, her breathing and temperature were found to be normal, but she is not responding positively to treatment.
 
 Recently, when park officials were unable to find her pulse, the vet injected IV fluid and took her blood and urine sample. It was later found that she was suffering from urinary tract infection (UTI). Though park vets had started her treatment, Van Vihar officials consulted a nephrologist at   Dr Gopesh Modi.
 
 “Her heath is deteriorating,” said park director Sameeta Rajora.
 
 Along with doctors, team of 10 people are working on her treatment for the past eight months. The tigress was rescued from Bandhavgarh tiger reserve where her condition was critical due to an injury in her neck. The tigress was rescued from an iron wire, which was found wrapped around her neck with a deep cut.
 
