PUNE: Law and order situation in Maharashtra is peaceful, but stone pelting, rasta and rail roko andolans and damage to vehicles were reported in Pune, Aurangabad, Thane, Parbhani, Washim and Buldhana, additional director general of police (law and order)   said on Tuesday.

 Bihari told TOI, “ On Tuesday, the law and order situation was fine. The Pune rural police has lodged five to six FIRs under sections of the Indian Penal Code. We have questioned several people and detained 15 to 20 people as of now after conducting verification of facts. Formal arrests will be made later.” 
 
 He said, “Pune is peaceful after some incidents of stone pelting were reported. One or two people have been injured. A train was blocked at Aurangabad forcing police to fire four to five rounds in the air to disperse the mob. Stone pelting was also reported from Ahmednagar, Parbhani, Washim and Buldhana and rasta roko and stone pelting was reported in Thane. No casualties were reported. We will be alert on Wednesday for the Maharashtra bandh.”
 
 Pune district collector Saurabh   told TOI that the situation is tense but under control. Seven companies of State Reserve Police Force along with local police have been deployed in  , Vadhu, Shikrapur and Sanaswadi. Senior police officials from law and order department, sub-divisional magistrate, superintendent of police (rural) are at the spot, he added.
 
 "Section 144 order has been promulgated in Shikrapur, Koregaon Bhima, Vadhu and Sanaswadi. Whereever there have been clashes in these areas, the administration and the police officials are negotiating and bringing reconciliation and are trying to prevent any agitation at the spot or on social media,'' Rao said.
 
 Resident deputy collector Rajendra Muthe said after stray incidents of shops being shut in some parts of the city, police ensured there were no crowds. The cyber cell has issued a circular which states that no statements to spur violence should be posted on social media.
 
 The district administration ensured transport arrangements for 33 women to return to Nagpur by train as their bus was intercepted by a mob in Kharadi. Stray incidents were reported from Indapur, Baramati, Aurangabad and Nashik.
 
 Muthe said the weekly vegetable market on Thursday at Koregaon Bhima has been cancelled. The Mazi Kanya Bhagyashri programme in Balewadi has been cancelled.
 
 (With inputs from   and Swati Shinde Gole)
 
 
