Traditional slow starters Mumbai will be hoping that the two last ball losses they have suffered will be the last of their campaign to defend the title. 

 They have got so close both times but haven't had the luck to take them over the line. They will be hoping they win the toss and field first, for their renowned death overs bowlers have not risen to the occasion yet. 
 
 
 
 
 Young Mayank Markande has been quite superb, showing great control over flight and turn. It is never easy for a legspinner to be accurate but Markande has been that and his googly has not been picked by some of the best keepers to spinners. 
 
 
 
 
 When you count Mahendra Singh Dhoni and Wriddhiman Saha among your victims, both having failed to read the googly, then you can believe that others won't find it easy either. Both Dhoni and Saha have kept wickets to world-class spinners and are adept at knowing how much and which way the ball is going to turn. 
 
 
  
  
 
 Therefore, to snare them, is a big feather in Markande's cap. To be sure, it won't be easy from now on as the other teams' computer guys will have zeroed in on his every little twitch before he starts his run up to try and get an idea of when he is going to bowl which delivery. 
 
 While he has been the standout bowler for Mumbai, the two limited overs specialists, Bumrah and   haven't quite come to the party and that's where Mumbai have struggled.
 
  also hasn't fired as yet and so Mumbai haven't been able to put up the totals that are beyond the opposition. They should also look to use   up the order and give him more overs to bat.
 
 Delhi have looked a bit tight in the field and have put unnecessary pressure on themselves. That can happen due to the expectations of having two of the most competitive players Gautam Gambhir and   at the helm. 
 
 At the first-class level, the clash between these two powers in Indian cricket has always been worth going miles to see and brings out the best in the players and this   clash shouldn't be any different, as both teams look to open their account on the points table.
 
