LUCKNOW :   MP   has fired yet another salvo at her party, claiming that the country is staring at anarchy. "Statues of Dalit icon BR Ambedkar continue to be vandalized in the country, but no action is being taken against the accused. I am an MP but nobody is listening to me. If this is not anarchy, what is? And I am not saying this, even Supreme Court lawyers have said this," the MP from Bahraich said. 

 Phule, who had earlier taken on the BJP government for attacks on Dalits' rights, had recently courted controversy after she went against the party line on the row over Jinnah's portrait in Aligarh Muslim University campus, saying Pakistan's founder was a ' mahapurush' and there was no harm in celebrating his role in India's freedom struggle. "I did not say anything wrong. Senior BJP leader LK Advani had also paid him homage to him as has BJP MLA Swami Prasad Maurya," she said. 
 
 The firebrand MP said Ambedkar statues are still being vandalized and no action has been taken against the culprits.
 
  "The Dalit community in Bahraich is so upset that it did not even celebrate Ambedkar Jayanti this year. As an MP, as a representative of the Dalit community, I have been asking the government to implement the Constitution in its true spirit and to ensure reservation for SC/STs. Instead, statements are being made that the government wants to change the Constitution itself," she said.
 
 Phule, who had also held a rally in Lucknow to demand that reservation for Dalits and backwards be preserved, accused her party of using Dalits for electoral gains. 
 
 "The party leaders visit homes of Dalits, saying they are dining with them. However, they are not eating food either cooked by them, served by them or even from their utensils. The food is being brought from outside. Yet pictures of ministers and MLAs at Dalit homes are being posted and shared on social media. If they were to eat at the house of a person of any other caste, would they publicise it," she asked.
 
 When TOI questioned deputy chief minister Keshav Prasad Maurya about the MP's continued tirade against the party, he said that the government has no role but the party is keeping an eye on Phule and her comments and would take action when required.
 
 
