PATNA:   (BEPC), a wing of  , has set the target to visit 15,000 government elementary   on the first day of its inspection to begin on April 16 (Monday). The schools would be inspected on various parameters, including teacher-student ratio, midday meal, labs, toilets and other government schemes.

 Sources said there are around 71,000 elementary   and around 8,000 teachers would inspect them under the upcoming exercise.
 
 The education officials will collect the data, which will be uploaded to the newly launched mobile app ‘Bihar Easy School Tracking’ (BEST). The app was launched on March 17 by education minister Krishna Nandan Prasad Verma. The app enabled with the feature of real-time data generation of schools has been developed by the BEPC with the technical support of United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF) Bihar.
 
 The app would be accessible only to state government officials engaged in monitoring of elementary schools. 
 
 BEPC state project director Sanjay Singh told this newspaper on Friday the technical training of the educational officials has been completed at state and district level with the help of technical team of UNICEF. “The department has roped in district education officers (DEOs), district programme officers, block education officers, cluster coordinators among others, for real-time monitoring of the schools. The inspection will be carried out once in a week, covering all the government-aided schools across the state,” he said.
 
 “Each official has been asked to cover 20 schools in their region within a week and upload the status of the school to the BEST app. The government will be able to analyse the academic report and overall performance and glitches of the government schools in Bihar. According to that report, the government will take necessary action for the better results and improving quality of education in schools,” said Singh, adding to accomplish this goal, android based application for data reporting and website for monitoring has been developed.
 
 Patna DEO Jyoti Kumar said around 300 officials would inspect around 1500 schools in Patna district on April 16. “Earlier, officials used to send a hard copy of the status of the schools, on the basis of which the department used to initiate action. Now, the app will make the work paperless and reduce the hassle of restoring the paper,” he said.
 
 
