SURAT: Not only did the fugitive chairman of Winsome diamonds Jatin Mehta defraud the Indian banks of Rs 7,000 crore, but he also ruined the life of his 27-year-old promising employee from Surat.

 Son of an auto consultant  , who was appointed as an assorter at Eco Diamonds FZE owned by Jatin’s wife Sonal Mehta and his son Suraj in Dubai in 2014, is languishing in the foreign country since last eight months and unable to return. Mehta’s company Eco Diamonds FZE has allegedly filed false criminal and civil complaints against Flesh following which Dubai court seized his passport in October 2017.
 
 Flesh used to work with Mehta at Dubai Airport Free Zone (DAFZ) office. Having gained his confidence, he was looking after the sales and marketing of lab-grown diamonds. He was handling the foreign clients’ portfolio in the US, Hong Kong, Singapore and Dubai and knew all the ins and outs about the Mehtas.
 
 At the time of joining in 2014, the company’s name was PDC International FZE, which was later changed to Eco Diamonds FZE. Flesh was made to deposit his passport and chequebook with the company as a security deposit. When he offered to resign after completing three years to start his own diamond business, Mehta and his son Suraj Mehta filed a complaint with Dubai police in a cheque bounce case, involving 5 lakh dirham. This was the same blank cheque that was furnished by Flesh as a condition to join the company as per the rules. 
 
 The complaint was filed one month after Flesh filed a complaint on the public grievance portal of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Indian consulate in Dubai in September 2017. The consulate’s labour department in Dubai requested the company to settle the issue, but Mehtas went ahead and filed a cheque bounce complaint against Flesh. 
 
 Following the Dubai court’s order, Flesh was sent to prison for two months in October 2017 and his passport was seized. At present, he is facing civil suit in the cheque bounce case there. Mehtas did not stop here. While Flesh was in jail, Mehtas lodged a criminal complaint in Dubai alleging that he stole valuable diamonds and cash from the company. The Dubai police are still investigating the case. 
 
 Talking to TOI from Dubai, Flesh said, “They (Mehtas) have ruined my life and career. I have no relatives here and am forced to live on footpath and lodges. As my passport is seized, I am unable to get a job. Hence, I have to do petty works like cleaning in restaurant, sweeping and filling petrol at the pumps.”
 
 Flesh added, “I wrote to the PMO in India, but they are yet to respond. My only fault is that I wanted to start my own business and Jatin Mehta knew that I could be a big danger as I was knowing all his trade secrets. In the past they have harassed many employees who have left them, but they were not so close to the Mehtas.” 
 
 According to Flesh, he has lodged police complaint in DAFZA police station in Dubai against Sonia Jatin Mehta and   for torturing, humiliating, forceful confinement in their office. The investigation is on in that complaint.
 
 
