Noida:   school in Noida wrote an email to parents on Saturday claiming to have sent samples of food and water served to students last Thursday for testing, but the food safety and drug administration (FSDA) denied having received anything.

 The FSDA had claimed on Friday it hadn’t found any samples of the food served to the students, which caused many of them to fall ill, during its visit to the campus. FSDA officer Sanjay Sharma had said the inspection team only came back with samples of ajwain and edible oil, and didn’t find anything else, even in the dustbins. 
 
 The email from the school, sent late Friday night, said, “We are extremely anxious and keen to know the exact cause of this sudden outbreak and have sent food and water samples for investigation in the laboratory. The reports will take a few days to arrive and rest assured that we will respond to the findings immediately.”
 
 Although the school has been communicating with parents through emails, it is yet to come out with any public statement. It, however, responded to a query from TOI, saying: “There was no misrepresentation made by the school. The school has been providing constant information to the parents and the authorities and will continue to do so. If there was any confusion or miscommunication on part of the school that created a perception among the authorities of not being given access, it is an error that we regret.”
 
 Asked about the email in which the school claimed to have sent samples for testing, the   denied having received any. “This is totally false,” said FSDA’s Sharma. City magistrate Mahendra Singh said the mail was an attempt to “mislead students”.
 
 The education department has, meanwhile, sent a notice to the school asking it to clarify why it had denied any case on food poisoning on Thursday and merely said three students had suffered “minor injuries”. “The school has been asked to respond immediately on why it misled officials and resorted to lies. No response has come from the school so far. In case they do not reply and cooperate, we will write to the divisional commissioner to cancel its licence,” district inspector of schools PK Upadhyay said.
 
 According to the health department, the total number of students who fell sick after eating meals at the school on Thursday is around 150. Step by Step does not allow students to bring lunch or water from home and till Thursday provided food to them through Sodexo, an agency headquartered in France. The school has cancelled Sodexo’s contract after the students took ill.
 
 A parent questioned “discrepancies” in the statements of the school. “Which is the laboratory that the samples have been sent to? They should share every detail,” the parent said.
 
 Chief medical officer Anurag Bhargava said many students had complained of stomach ache after reaching home.
 
 
