KOLKATA: The woman who built a hospital for the poor, by working as a domestic help and selling vegetable under the   for most part of her life, is now the recipient of  .

 Meet Kolkata’s unsung hero Subhasini Mistry (75) who saved every penny she earned, raised her four children all by herself after losing her husband at the age of 24 and built a hospital in Thakurpukur and a unit in Sundrebans to ensure no one is deprived of proper treatment. She is one among the five Bengal recipients of the prestigious national award which was announced on   eve.
 
 “I’m glad the government has recognized my work. But I would be happier if this award influences others to step up and do their bit for the society. As for me, I had already got my reward when the full-scale hospital was constructed and the first patient was successfully treated,” Mistry told TOI.
 
 Born in a poor farmer’s family, Mistry was married at the age of 12. Tragedy struck when her husband died 12 years later, leaving her to look after four children. “My husband didn’t receive proper treatment for a simple ailment like gastroenteritis as we had no money. Then I promised no one should die like my husband just because they are poor,” said Mistry.
 
 A young widow without any education, Mistry started working as a domestic help in five houses and earned a little more than Rs 100 a month. While she sent the elder son, Ajay, to an orphanage, the rest three stayed with her. Soon she and her children moved to Dhapa, where she began selling vegetables in Park Circus. She opened a savings account and deposited in it whatever she could save every month for the next 20 years.
 
 She spent some money on Ajay’s education and in 1992, she bought a land in Thakurpukur’s Hanspukur (her husband’s village) for Rs 10,000. She told the villagers she was going to donate the land for a hospital, for which they should also contribute. In 1993, Humanity Hospital treated 250 people with doctors who didn’t take money. Ajay joined his mother as a doctor and expanded the hospital. They set up another unit in Patharpratima, Sunderbans.
 
 “My work isn’t done. Both hospitals need to grow with more staffers on board. I hope to convert it into a 24-hour facility some day. I hope the government helps me too,” said Mistry.
 
