AGRA:   in Kasganj district saw a complete shutdown for entire day on Friday, following a deadly robbery, in which three members of a family were clubbed to death by a gang of nearly 15 dacoits. The agitated protesters even engaged in stone pelting at policemen, which arrived at the incident spot. 

 The Kasganj police then had to resort to lathi-charge and firing   to disperse  . The clash between locals and police continued for half an hour even as tension prevailed in the city.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 According to police, in Navi Nagar Colony, between 12am and 1 am on Friday, a gang of around 15 men armed with club, stick, iron rod and sword barged inside Raj Kumar’s home and started assaulting his family members. The gang killed two women identified as Maya Devi (48) and Champa Devi (65), along with Ramdas (62). Later, the gang took away Rs 50,000 worth of jewellery and other valuables. In the incident, the dacoits also attacked Maya’s husband Raj Kumar (52) and her children Aarti (20) and Ajay Kumar (18), who were taken to government hospital for medical aid, as they sustain injuries on limbs and other body parts.
 
 The late night incident came to light after the victim’s extended family relatives who live few blocks away were informed in the morning hours.
 
 Sanjay Kumar, deceased Champa Devi’s son, said, “At around 5am Ajay, my nephew, ran to our home and informed about the dacoity. The dacoits killed my mother, sister-in-law, uncle and injured my brother and his two children.”
 
 The incident occurred nearly 500 meters away from Sahawar police station. Earlier, on Wednesday night, in adjoining Amapur police jurisdiction, a septuagenarian was bludgeoned to death and five others were killed by a gang of nine men before been robbed.
 
 After the dacoity-cum-triple murder, at around 9:30am, local residents staged a massive protest by keeping the three bodies on the roundabout and blocked the Sahawar-Ganjdundwara road, calling a complete shutdown of Sahawar city. The protesters pelted stones on local Sahawar cops, after which a PAC company, along with additional three police stations force, was roped in to control unruly mob. Taking cognizance of the level of unrest, ADG Agra zone Ajay Anand also reached Kasganj.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 DIG Piyush Srivastav, the Kasganj police chief, said, “Based on the written complaint of victim’s relative, we have filed an FIR under IPC section 396 (dacoity with murder) and sent the three bodies for post-mortem.”
 
 He said, “The incident occurred at around 1am, but since the injured victims were traumatized and were scared to come out from home until morning, local police reached the spot at around 5am after a distress call to dial 100 was made.”
 
 
  
  
 
 ADG Agra zone Ajay Anand said, “Six teams, including a special task force, has been given responsibility to nab the culprits involved in the incident.”
 
 
