BATHINDA: A weather advisory about the possibility of rains in the state on April 16-17 is making farmers work overtime in their fields to harvest wheat crop before it gets damaged. This priority of farmers of tending to crop seems to have dampened the spirits of Baisakhi festival at   at  . The Baisakhi fair as well as political conferences on the occasion failed to get much response from the people, especially farmers who used to take part in Baisakhi festivities all these years. 

 Baisakhi fair is held every year from April 12 to 15 at Talwandi Sabo.
 
 The agriculture department director had written to chief agricultural officers of all the districts on April 13, to advice farmers to make arrangements for saving crops from the probability of rains on April 16 and 17. As of now, only 10% wheat has been harvested and farmers are worried about saving the crop and so stayed away from the festivities in large numbers. Sources said farmers are busy harvesting wheat even if it is not fully ripe or has more moisture content and want to take it to grain market so that they may save it from damage in case of rain.
 
 A sweet shop owner at the Baisakhi fair said, “I have recorded sales of less than 50% as compared to previous years. People seem to have stayed away from the Baisakhi fair this time. It is not just me, but most shopkeepers are feeling the pinch in sales this year.” Another shopkeeper, who paid fee to   to book a shop during the fair said, “I might just manage to recover only the rent I paid to set up a kiosk here. I may not make any profit, going by response of people”.
 
 An SGPC official too claimed the rush of devotees was much less this time as compared to previous years.
 
 Farmer Surinder Singh of   village said saving the crop was their priority. “Harvest it (crop) and take it to grain market. We are not in a position to face losses for crop damage. For us, Baisakhi festivities come later.” Another farmer Mohinder Singh claimed the weather advisory has led to a scare in the community. “I had sown wheat in 8 acres and am still to harvest it. I have hired a combine harvester and have no time to go to the fair.”
 
  agriculture department director   said, “We have got the feedback from metrological department about rains on April 16 and 17, so the advisory. We have also asked agriculture officers to check any panic among farmers and to harvest wheat with more moisture content than permissible 12%”. 
 
 
