"Its the economy stupid" said James Carville, the man who played a key role in the election of Bill Clinton in 1992. According to estimates of the  , the Indian middle has doubled from about 300 million to about 600 million, close to half the nations population - between 2004 and 2012.While the actual definition of the middle class could very much be the subject of a debate, what is sure for certain is that any present day government must engage this large Indian middle class which could be rural as well as urban both politically and economically. Both because the Leadership and its connect matter as much as the content of a campaign. In that sense we might just say "its the political economy stupid".

 In the era of data, the key is can we come up with a scientific and analytic metric which would qualify the political events with economic attributes or derived surrogate attributes which explain the behaviour of the voter. At  , we set up a simple yet powerful metric to understand how the economic indicators especially that quantify the middle class actually could drive mandates in modern India. We track the Inflation, Unemployment and Savings Rate as a percentage of Gross National Income right since 1975. We develop a simply yet powerful metric which we shall for the lack of any other term call the (MCI) Middle Class Comfort Index. It is the Savings rate divided by the sum of Inflation rate and Unemployment rate in that particular year. The underlying axiom is that a growing savings percentage indicates a more stronger middle class. 
 
 A look at the data clearly indicates that while the economic reforms of 1991, might have seeded the middle class, it really flourished and grew to a threshold of relevance in the years of the NDA regime, which saw a large jump in savings as a % of GNI. The savings grew by almost 10 percentage points from 13% to 23% during NDA 1, between 1998 and 2004. In all the previous elections right from 1975, before the NDA came to power the MCI hovered between 0.6 and 1.11, showing that a middle class comfort wither by the size of the class or by the sheer quantum of variation of the comfort index was not a key influencer in elections. However the dynamics changed since 1998, When the NDA bequeathed power in 2004, the comfort index stood at 2.47. Take a look at the table below and now you know why the middle economy actually mattered as much in the political discourse , and what caused the UPA's battering in 2014. 
 
 Having established itself at a comfortable 2.47 in 2004, it peaked at 2.94 in 2007, and then began a precipitous decline all the way to less than half its value in 2013 at 1.32. This precipitous decline compounded a growing middle class quantum , 600 million by one estimate in 2012, created one of the most punishing electoral mandates in the year 2014, the Congress party being at the receiving end whittled down to a mere 44. Though the index improved to 2.09 in 2014, it was of little help to reverse a sentiment fuelled by a continuous six year decline. 
 
 The metric clearly shows that the middle class (both urban and rural put together) is a voluble constituency since 2004, and you ignore it at your peril. Contextualizing it to today, it means that the budgetary or financial planning exercises, must have clear strategies to operationalize an economic promise, like say Obamacare in the United States, and these need to reflect in hard numbers of savings rates on the ground. So yes , Obama did buck anti-incumbency and have himself re-elected, with an economic promise. The moot point is that there has to be diligent plan to operationalize, and its impact has to be on how much the citizenry adds to its pocket in terms of savings or say an index like MCI. 
 
  
  
 
 On Sunday the 28th January, the chairman of the  , spoke about how   was not the solution to any of the long run crisis of the farmers. Very rightly it was the back to back years of MSP rise during UPA1, which fuelled structural inflation , raised inflation and hit middle class savings. Half baked Implementations of RTE , and the distortions caused in the labour market by   were the other ones. With the current regime not biting the MSP bullet and also quickly scouting to recruit for open government positions it is clear that they are looking to control the denominator of the MCI , which is Inflation and Unemployment. Now we need to see what they would do to make the numerator better, the savings rate. That's the question the budget would answer. 
 
 
 
 
 
