Café culture and   go hand in hand. Many youngsters, over the past few years, have been returning to the hill town from bigger cities – where they had moved to take up jobs – to open  , among other things. But recently, we have seen Doonites not only opening eateries but also turning chefs themselves. Following up on their passion for cooking, these youngsters are not just turning café owners but are becoming their chefs too. 
 
 From being a sailor to a chef
 For Aneesh Singh, owner of  , who was in   for 16 years, it was a big decision to come back to Doon and follow his love for cooking by starting his own cafe. As he says, "After spending so many years of my life in the sea, I wanted to spend some time with my family and follow my passion for cooking. That’s what made me start my cafe. I always enjoyed cooking but now that I have opened a café, I cook without following a particular recipe, by just creating flavours that seem interesting and fun to me. And this is what Doonites are appreciating about my café."
  
  Aneesh Singh
 
 
 
 Having been worked as an operations manager at a private firm, Mohit Jayant wanted to pursue a career in food industry. He says, "Before working in the private firm, I worked in the food industry and thought of returning to my passion, cooking, by opening my café,  ."
 Mohit adds, "I didn’t open this café just to make profit but also to involve myself in the production so that I can also pursue my passion for cooking. By being a part of the production team, I can keep a close watch on the product quality, which is a very critical part of live kitchen in the food industry. I not only enjoy cooking food but also love to train my team."
 
 
 
 Avantika Choudhary, who owns cafe  , says, "I have been in this profession since 2005 and started my job from the kitchen. When people ask me why I cook in my café and not hire a chef, I say because no one else can cook like me. I am not bragging here but the fact is that the love with which I will cook and serve my guests in my own café, no one else can do that. I have always been in the cooking team because this is what I do that best."
 
 
  Avantika has always been a part of her cafe’s cooking team because she says this is what she does the best
 
 
 
 Karan Veer Singh, who owns café   in Race Course, realised his love for cooking during his coaching days when he was preparing to get admission in a medical college and soon turned his passion into profession. He says, "Initially I wanted to become a doctor but later I realised that my interest lies in cooking. The main motive behind opening a café, apart from making profit, is to grow as a chef and experiment with different cuisine. I cook not just for my guests but for myself, to follow my passion."
  
  Karan Veer Singh
 
 
 
 
 For Namanraj Singh Jolly, the owner of  , cooking was always his first love. He says, "I always wanted to be a chef and pursued this profession right after class 12. After interning at a hotel in Mumbai, I went to Australia to pursue another course in cooking and started working there but soon came back to start my own café. I shifted from the hot kitchen to the bakery section because in Doon, we didn’t have many options in bakery at that time. It is a field where one can experiment and be creative the most. As far as cooking in my café is concerned, it’s a very satisfying feeling to see people relish your food and bakery products. This appreciation is the driving force for all chef entrepreneurs."
 
  
  Namanraj Singh
 
 
