VIJAYAWADA: There is growing unrest among   employees as promotions and transfers in the department have been put on hold for the last four years and two years respectively. Further, the employees are alleging ill treatment and harassment from high ranking officers.

 For the first time all major employees’ unions of the excise department have come together for their demands. A joint action committee (JAC) was also formed with members from excise gazetted officers association, executive officers association, constable and head constables officers association and ministerial staff association. A general body meeting of the JAC was held in Vijayawada on Friday. The Andhra Pradesh NGOs association extended support to the meeting.
 
 The main issue discussed was the hold on promotions and transfers. It may be noted that giving promotions were suspended as some officials are facing charges in the 2011 liquor syndicate scam. However, Anti-Corruption Bureau’s (ACB) investigation is still going on and none of the accused have been convicted.
 
 Moreover, the employees’ are demanding the government fill vacancies in the department which total to about 500. The vacancies begin from the rank of circle inspector and go to higher positions. “Employees are retiring from the department, but the government is not filling vacancies, nor are eligible employees being promoted,” said executive officers association president B Narasimha.
 
 Transfers in the department are pending since two years. This is another sticking point with the excise employees. JAC chairman   said, “The officers at the helm have completely ignored the welfare of the department because of their feuds. It is very sad that the government did not stand by the officials who were attacked by the arrack racketeers in   and ganja smugglers in East Godavari.”
 
 He said the JAC will fight for the rights of excise officials. The JAC leaders met excise commissioner P Lakshmi Narasimham and submitted a charter of their demands.
 
 
