She’s been in the news for always being by the side of  . With '  2', their popular pairing has caught the eye of fans and created quite a buzz. She had auditioned for Tiger’s 'Baaghi' back in 2015, but the role went to  . Her brief performances in 'MS Dhoni: The Untold Story' and Jackie Chan’s 'Kung Fu Yoga' have kept her in the spotlight. But life’s come a full circle for  . She doesn’t rue the missed opportunities nor the struggle from the past. Speaking to BT, she emphasises the need to stay positive, be confident, make great cinema and match kicks with her high-flying best friend Tiger. Excerpts… 

 
 My character’s life has two phases: one in college where she’s a rebel in her own way and the second half sees her as a changed woman. It’s a layered and well-written character. Even the romance in the film is not usual and that makes it a tricky thing to portray. Imagine that you love someone and you can’t show that. Our director Ahmed Khan knew what he wanted and, he’d even enact scenes for us to ensure we get our expressions bang on. There’s a certain awkwardness when you meet an ex or bump into someone you knew, but haven’t spoken to in a long time. Ahmed sir taught us to portray that without overdoing or underplaying it.
 
 
 Honestly, my routine includes gymnastics, dance and gym workouts. There’s nothing different I did for the film; I just stuck to my routine.
 
 
 These experiences helped me become a better actor. I don’t have a background in acting. I’m a shy, socially awkward girl and there was no way I would have become an actor. When I came to Mumbai, I must have gone through a thousand auditions for commercials, which helped me get over my inhibitions. Sometimes, you wonder why some things happen, but trust me, it’s all for a reason. I am a positive person and I always told myself that I was probably too young for the opportunities that I lost. Maybe it was God’s way of telling me that I was not fully prepared for them. Today, I am proud of all the work I have done. I could have chosen films where I merely had to look good, but I wanted people to take me seriously as an actor. I wanted producers to see me as an artiste and not just a decked-up doll. I think I’ve succeeded in doing that, to an extent. I’m a selfish actor and I am concerned about what I bring to a film.   (producer) had seen my screen test for 'Baaghi' and maybe that is the reason he called me for the sequel. You can never force anyone to cast you. They are the makers and they should be convinced that an actor can pull off their vision. Sajid sir is the boss and he knows what works best for his projects.
 
 
 I don’t overthink or obsess about one thing too much. If I do that, I’ll become negative and unhappy. I come from a simple family. My sister is in the army and my father is a cop. It was my dream to become an Air Force pilot. I was pursuing B.Tech, but I didn’t see it through. I was a studious kid who left academics and started modelling. Had I thought too much about all this, I wouldn’t have been here. During my early days in Mumbai, when I didn’t know people or have enough money, I just used to pack my lunch and leave home every day in the hope to get work. I’m lucky to have landed such good opportunities. Sajid sir is a fantastic producer to work with and he has given me this chance to display my potential.
 
 
 I always wanted to be independent. Modelling and acting were not my aim back then, but at the same time, I didn’t want to ask my family for money. As for the dream of flying, I still want to do it — I guess I will need training and flying experience.
 
 
 They were not happy about my sister signing up for the army, because it’s an extremely demanding job. My mother was happy with my decision because when she was young, she wanted to participate in a pageant which didn’t happen. Perhaps, she could fulfill her dream through me. My father wasn’t against my decision, but he was apprehensive because I was a girl and I had never travelled alone beyond Noida. And here I was in Mumbai, living alone and finding my way in an unfamiliar industry. Today, my family is proud and happy with my achievements. They feel happy to see me on screen even if it is for five seconds. My father always reacts with just one word, ‘Zabardast!’ We don’t have long chats about my profession.
 
 
 (Cuts in) My sister’s job is so much tougher. She’s an engineer in the army; she has undergone gruelling training for a year in Chennai. She loved her long hair and she’s had to sacrifice that. You have to be strong to sail through that. When I look at her, I feel my journey isn’t difficult at all. Mulling over your job will only make you unhappy. I am glad that at a time when many girls are trying to find inroads into Bollywood, I have already bagged good opportunities. 
 
 
 Looking good, being in commercials and on magazine covers is not my priority. My aim is to be an actor first and look like the character I am playing. I have a natural tendency to opt for characters that need me to push myself hard. I like to have lots of emotions to portray on screen. I am not against an out-and-out commercial film, if it has a strong role for me. In fact, it’s tough for someone like me to be the quintessential commercial heroine. Getting those expressions and nakhras is not easy. I am a tomboy and I have never had any nakhras in life. Ahmed sir (director Ahmed Khan) had to enact those nakhras for me to get them right.
 
 
 Right now, I cannot watch myself on screen. I am still trying to like myself a little more. In fact, I haven’t even seen 'MS Dhoni: The Untold Story'. Everyone has their own presence on screen and it’s good to have so much variety and healthy competition. I like it when girls end up shouldering films.
 
 
 It’s sad that we have to say girls are being given strong roles and equal chances to prove their worth. By saying that, aren’t we turning them into a minority? There is no woman or man-oriented film. Films are all about stories and characters, which could be men or women. As a concept, women-oriented films don’t appeal to me. People didn’t make a noise about such things decades ago, when actresses like Nargis Dutt did Mother India. I think we make too much heavy weather out of a common practice. Women have been portraying strong roles in the movies for years. I like what   once said, ‘You can always make a film with someone who has commercial following. It could be anyone.’
 
 
 I don’t have friends here, as I don’t get a chance to meet people. I don’t feel like going out after all the activities I do in a day. I feel drained out and can’t keep my eyes open for an event or a party that starts at 11 pm. I’d rather invest on making myself a better artiste. Anyway, I am shy and I don’t know how to talk to people, but I am happy the way I am. As for Tiger, he’s an inspiring co-star. When we started working together, I thought it would be difficult to enact emotional scenes. I thought we would burst out laughing, but the sets of 'Baaghi 2' had a different sort of junoon. Tiger and I connect well and we could improvise our scenes effortlessly.
 
 
 He’s my only friend in Mumbai. We both like to dance and work out. He’s a thousand times better than me at both, but we connect through them. I am hanging out with him all the time, perhaps that’s why we get spotted together everywhere. So, people probably feel that we’re in a relationship. We’re friends and there is nothing more to the story. If I hang out with another guy, probably, people will say I left Tiger for him.
 
 
