MUMBAI: The   probing the   that claimed 14 lives have arrested a 22-year-old employee of  , where the fire broke out, for illegal   to customers on the night of the tragedy.

 The fire department probe report had said hookah embers came into contact with the curtains at Mojo’s Bistro, leading to fire spreading and killing 14 people in the adjacent resto-bar,  , on December 29.
 
 Sayyed alias Shezad Ali, a resident of Mansarovar in Navi Mumbai, was summoned for questioning and later placed under arrest at 8 pm on Wednesday. Sayyed has been booked for culpable homicide not amounting to murder. Police had questioned five employees of Mojo’s who served hookah to customers. 
 
 The police have so far arrested 13 people in the Kamala Mills fire case. 
 
 Following Sayyed’s arrest, the police told the Bhoiwada magistrate court, which is hearing petitions related to the case, they needed the custody of Utkarsh Pandey who supplied hookah to 1Above and Mojo’s. The police told the court that during questioning of Utkarsh Pandey, it found Sayyed was entrusted with the job of serving hookah. Pandey has been sent to police custody till January 29. Pandey filed an application seeking court’s permission to attend law exams in Gazaiabad in UP. The court rejected his application. 
 
 Kamala Mills director Ravi Bhandari and fire officer Rajendra Patil were produced before the court, which sent them judicial custody. 
 
 The magistrate, V B Bohra, meanwhile, rejected the bail applications of the five prime accused: 1Above partners Kripesh Sanghvi, Jigar Sanghvi and Abhijeet Mankar and Mojo’s partners Yug Pathak and Yug Tuli. They had pleaded before the court that IPC section 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder), a non-bailable section, was applied, but they should have been charged, at the most, under IPC section 304(A) which refers to causing death by negligence, a bailable section. Besides, the owners of the two resto-bars blamed each other for the fire. 
 
 Seeking bail for Yug Pathak, his lawyer Rizwan Merchant had said the direction of hookah embers is not in control of human and that it was an act of God. He added that the hotel owners had no intention and could not be held responsible for the flying embers.
 
 Sanjay Wadhavane, public prosecutor ,opposed their bail pleas saying all the accused were responsible for the death of 14 people. He told the court the accused had knowledge that such incident may happen but did not do anything to avoid it.
 
 
