If the term ‘female spy’ brings up images of kick-butt women expertly wielding guns and putting their martial arts skills to good use (and taking a few hard knocks themselves), or seductive sirens entrapping enemies and extracting secrets, you only have films to thank. But can an unsure and nervous student-turned-newlywed hold the license to kill – and thrill – in a spy caper? Enter Raazi’s  , who writes a new vocabulary for the spy thriller genre. Yes, she’s an undercover agent on a mission. Yes, there’s cross-border espionage and an impending war. But   is neither high-octane action nor a high-heels-and-fancy-gadgets spectacle. What it is is a real story.
Sehmat isn’t coming out of a comic book’s fictional universe or a writer’s imagination. She’s an ordinary girl in college, thrust into an extraordinary situation, who has no idea she can pull things off till she’s in a situation. She’s not Tiger Zinda Hai’s Zoya or Salt’s Evelyn  , who, despite all the twists and turns of the plot, give you the assurance in the back of your head that of course they’ll save the world in the end. With Sehmat, you have no idea if she actually can, so you fear for her every second. Because Raazi is a real story, of a real girl, what she does is relatable. And therefore, scarier. As director   puts it, “It is a girl’s journey and that’s what makes it so fragile and so uncertain, because it’s a 20-year-old girl doing this.”
 
  
  
 She agrees that she has deconstructed the combat-boots-with-hidden-knives-clad stereotype. “For the life of me, I couldn’t fathom that in 1971 there would be the boots and the knife. And I had to play with what I got. So there was this little Morse, and woh antenna bandhna, that is what she had. So it’s the interpretation that the audience will have to calibrate to – of a pastel-clad spy in 1971.”
 Sehmat doesn’t pick a gun or eliminate adversaries like someone born to it. She’s vulnerable, she’s afraid, and she falters. But she’s determined to carry her mission to the end, because “watan ke aage kuch nahi”.
 
