BAREILLY: The   has directed   to not allow students of the affiliated colleges to appear in   on the premises of the institutions where they study. The students will have to take exams at centres located elsewhere, though an exception will be made for female and physically disabled students if their college has been chosen as an exam centre. This is the first time when even government-aided colleges will be covered under this rule. Officials said that the move is aimed at curbing cheating during final exams.
 
  In a letter to VCs of state universities on Thursday, additional chief secretary, higher and secondary education, Sanjay Agarwal said, “Colleges affiliated to universities will not become self-centres and the students will appear in exams at centres near their institutes. However, the female students will be allowed to sit for exams at their college only if it becomes an exam centre. In case their college has not been made a centre, female students will sit for exams at a centre within a 5km radius of their institute. Even students (both male and female) with disabilities can appear for exam in their college if it is a centre. In case it isn’t, they will be adjusted in the nearest centre.”
  
  The letter said that all exam centres should be within an 8km radius of a college. Following the order, exam controller of Mahatma Jyotiba Phule (MJP)  , Mahesh Kumar asked principals of 512 affiliated colleges to give names of three colleges situated near their campus that can be made exam centres.
  
  Professor  , media in-charge, MJP Rohilkhand University, said, “This is for the first time when students of government-aided colleges will be sent to other centres for exams. As the final exams start from March 5, we will choose centres in a week.”
  
  For ensuring transparency in the entire process, the government has also directed VCs to install   cameras. Also, the colleges which witnessed violence against teachers and invigilators, and where question papers were leaked in the past, have not been made exam centres.
