HYDERABAD: Taking a cue from Jats in Rajasthan and Kapus in  , who have been agitating for reservations in government jobs and educational institutions,   in   are now seeking sops for the community in general, and quota for the poor people among them.

 Towards this end, Telangana Reddy Joint Action Committee (JAC) urged the TRS government to create a special corporation for Reddys and set apart funds for it. JAC also sought reservations for the poor families in education and employment by relaxing educational and age norms.
 
 
  
 
 Around 200 JAC members met ministers, G Jagadish Reddy, T Harish Rao, Nayani Narsimha Reddy, Pocharam Srinivas Reddy and Jupally Krishna Rao, on Saturday and said several Reddy families in the rural areas are living in abject conditions and need a helping hand from the government.
 
 “Though some Reddy families are rich, the situation is different in districts. Several Reddy farmers, students and youth in the rural areas have committed suicides owing to financial problems. The government should establish residential schools and colleges for Reddy students apart from extending full fee reimbursement scheme and an overseas education assistance of ?20 lakh each to Reddy students,” JAC chairman Navalga Satyanarayana Reddy told TOI.
 
 He said though official figures put Reddy population at 8 per cent in the state, it is 15 per cent in all the erstwhile 10 districts. The highest number of Reddys is in the erstwhile districts of Ranga Reddy, Nalgonda and  , he said. “Though the ministers have not given any assurance on setting up the special corporation and providing reservations, we asked them to fix an appointment for us with  ,” Satyanarayana said.
 
 The Reddy JAC was formed recently comprising various Reddy unions and associations such as Reddy Samkshema Samakhya, Telangana Reddy Employees’ Sangham, Reddy Jagruthi and  .
 
 The government has been wooing the Reddys since last year, amid reports that they are getting closer to  .
 
 The CM announced sops for them, allotting a 10-acre land for a Reddy hostel in Budwel and attending the foundation laying programme of the hostel on the occasion of the birth anniversary of Raja Bahadur Venkatrami Reddy in August last.
 
 He had also announced ?10 crore for construction of the building.
 
