PUNE: Most colleges in the city have not introduced the screen-reading software made compulsory for visually challenged students by the higher education department two years ago. 

 Vijay Narkhede, joint director of higher education for Pune division comprising Pune, Ahmednagar and Nashik said, “We had issued this circular in December 2015. All institutes have to introduce ‘Jaws’ or ‘Lekha’ software, screen reader programmes that convert text to speech or other mediums helping visually impaired candidates to attempt examinations.”
 
 Activists said online exams can be implemented to reduce the dependence on writers. There are two-three months for term end exams and the database of writers, proposed by   coordinators in Pune for schools, has failed to take off. 
 
 Narkhede said an action taken report will be sought from colleges. Colleges will have to implemented the software circular before the exam season begins, he added. 
 
 Some institutes like  , SP College, Savitribai Phule Pune University have made provisions for visually impaired students. 
 
 Rajendra Zunjarrao, principal of Modern College of Arts Science and Commerce, said, “ We have installed an audio notice board that helps visually impaired students listen to notices like exam dates, registration notices among others. We are in the process of converting our website to include an audio option for disabled students. The college has 50 visually impaired students.”
 
 Individual groups come up with writers for these students but the state machinery has failed to provide a database of writers for such students. Colleges pose a lot of challenges to these students, said  , administrative officer of   students. 
 
 “Audio libraries and screen reading software should be compulsory in all colleges. The study material is huge and unlike schools it is not just one text book that the student has to read. There is need to conduct online examinations so that we can reduce dependency on writers. The students can be easily trained in computer typing and if there is an audio software via which they can listen to what the question is and what they have typed, then it will be much easier for them,” Shewale said.
 
 
