NAGPUR: There is no mechanism as of now in India for inspection and control of quality of   as per the guidelines set by the national committee for standards of haemodialysis, a process of purifying blood of a person whose kidneys are not working normally, said senior nephrologist Dhananjay  .

 Talking to TOI on Tuesday, Dr Ookhalkar, who is a member of the committee, said, “Our document has been incorporated in the Clinical Establishment Act. In England, the government has a machinery for auditing dialysis facilities as it pays for it. But in India, the government does not completely pay for it, hence the quality is not audited in a large number of cases. We are creating a road map for improving the quality of dialysis.”
 
 He lauded the Maharashtra government for giving free dialysis facility to the needy patients at district hospitals. This is unheard of anywhere in the world. However, the quality of this facility has not been measured as yet, he added.
 
 Dr Ookhalkar said given the size of population, only 300 people would require dialysis in Nagpur. However, patients from the adjoining areas too come to the city for treatment for which they have to travel over 100 kilometres. In England, the patients who have to travel more than 25 kilometres for dialysis can lodge a complaint with the member of the   and get the facility closer home. There is no such facility here. Therefore, more dialysis centres should be set up at taluka places, he added.
 
 Dr Ookhalkar was given an appreciation award at an event organized by The   ( ), in association with Bhaiyyaji Pandharipande National Institute of Social Work, at Chitnavis Centre, Civil Lines. He was felicitated for starting and nurturing dialysis technician training programme in central India. He has trained more than 150 dialysis technicians in the last six years for disseminating trained manpower in urban and rural hospitals.
 
 Vice-chancellor of Nagpur University SP Kane gave away certificates for dialysis technician assistant programme and felicitated teachers.
 
 Dr Monali Sahu conducted the programme while Dr Sameer Chaubey, chairman, NSN, delivered the welcome address. Dr Ookhalkar gave an overview of the dialysis course. Dr   spoke on ‘Overview of department of lifelong learning, RTMNU’. The event ended with Rupesh Kaduskar’s talk on ‘Enriching human potential and serving society’.
 
 
