MUMBAI: The Dalit outburst over the Koregaon Bhima incident could trigger chances of a broader Dalit unity, based on social engineering, to address the socio-political and economic issues that stare the community in the face, said observers. 

 Noted Dalit thinker J V Pawar on Thursday said a "rainbow alliance" of smaller caste groups -- such as the Matangs and Charmakars, for instance -- is in the offing. "This could be the new narrative for Dalits. Prakash Ambedkar is thinking on such lines," said Pawar. This, said experts, could save Dalit parties the embarrassment that they cater only to the Mahar community.
 
 Pawar pointed out that Ambedkar, while commenting on the success of Wednesday's bandh, spoke of how Mumbaikars irrespective of caste, creed and community, empathised with the Dalit cause. "This reflects the community's new ethos," said Pawar.
 
 Ruling out the possibility of teaming up with leaders such as   and Kanhaiya Kumar, Pawar said, "They will come to Maharashtra with a political agenda. They will target the  . I think Dalits should now take a leaf out of Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar's book and plan a broad alliance of backward classes and downtrodden caste groups. Social engineering and not politics should be our agenda."
 
 The statewide 'bandh' has catapulted Bharip-Bahujan Mahasangh president Prakash Ambedkar to the Dalit centrestage, and he is said to be keen on bringing together the fractious   in the state -- 52 in all, it is said -- and script a new narrative for the community.
 
 But he will have to mollify many Dalit leaders, said analysts. "There shouldn't be any problem for Dalit groups to accept Ambedkar's leadership. The key question is whether he is ready to accept us. That he is Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar's grandson and has a balanced view on socio-economic and political matters will work to his advantage," said noted writer Arjun Dangle of Dalit Jan Shakti.
 
 Many Dalit activists think Ambedkar handled the Koregaon Bhima issue with dexterity, putting BJP on the mat by pointing out that the onus of maintaining peace in Maharashtra was on the Fadnavis regime and that the Dalit stir would be on till Sambhaji Bhide and Milind Ekbote, the two right-wing activists accused of igniting trouble, were arrested.
 
 Meanwhile, Union minister Ramdas Athavale finds himself in a spot. Community elders say GenNext Dalits hold a grudge against him for having teamed up with NDA. "Athavale's credibility has considerably eroded. He is seen as having compromised the larger interest of the community for power," said Pawar.
 
 Many Athavale loyalists from Chembur, Govandi, Ghatkopar and Kandivli joined Wednesday's 'bandh in an indication that the Union minister may be on a wet wicket.
 
 However, observers say Ambedkar's solo style of functioning that often triggers misunderstandings among his peers could hinder his plan to dislodge Athavale from the pedestal. Also, much depends on whether the disparate groups across Maharashtra are willing to sink their identity and rise above petty issues. "Many Dalit organisations which are merely on paper may like to retain their separate identity for political profit," said a Dalit worker from Kandivli.
 
 Pawar said the unity plan hinges on support from common Dalits and not second and third-rung party functionaries. "It is the common man from the community who wants all factions and leaders to come together share a common agenda," he said.
 
 
