BHOPAL: A major fire broke out at shanties in   near gate number 2, BHEL plant on Monday. The fire, which erupted from two shanties, soon spread and engulfed more than 50 huts. As slum dwellers rushed out and the number of people from nearby areas swelled, it triggered a huge traffic jam in the area for a little over an hour.

 
 After battling for more than two hours, 30 fire fighters and a staff of more than 70 from fire stations of the Bhopal Municipal Corporation (BMC), BHEL managed to extinguish the  . CISF jawans helped in rescuing a couple of children, who were trapped in shanties. No casualty was reported, but goods worth lakhs turned into ashes, sources said.
 
 
 BMC fire officer   said locals informed BMC about the fire in slum in Alkapuri in Bag Sewania area around 12.40 pm. Initially 2-3 fire tenders from ISBT were rushed to control the fire. Sensing that the inferno could spread to all 400-450 shanties in the locality, fire fighters present on the spot informed the control room and asked for additional support. Thereafter, more fire fighters from the BMC along with the BHEL and police fire stations rushed to the spot.
 
 
 In a few minutes, over 30 vehicles reached the spot and worked fast and furious to douse the fire. The situation worsened when two LPG cylinders kept in shanties exploded due to extreme heat. The CISF deployed fire wing personnel to remove gas cylinder and inflammable stuff from the area and rescue residents.
 
 
 After the fire was controlled, the firemen, carried out a search operation to find halfburnt goods or the stuff which could catch fire.
 
 
 Neel said the exact reason behind the fire incident is not yet clear, but it seems the blaze might have started due to a short-circuit or a gas leak in one of the shanties. The locals might have fitted coolers in view of summer season drawing power supply from main line, which could have triggered the fire, Neel said. As there was hardly any space to go around shanties, firemen faced problem in moving equipment. Ultimately, long pipes were used to throw water.
 
 
 Most of those who live in the area work as daily wage labourers. They claimed all their money and goods kept inside shanties went up in fire and smoke. The residents commented, “Children’s books, school bags, grocery items, electronic items and other household items turned into ashes and we lost everything in fire. Now we have to starts life from zero.”
 
 
 SDM Ravi Kumar said, “Reason behind fire is still unknown. Survey for loss and damages would be conducted on Tuesday. Today, entire force and machinery was engaged in dousing fire. Fire fighters were pressed into job to put out the fire. Arrangement has been made at BMC community hall for the affected families.”
 
