PATNA: A special vigilance court in Patna on Wednesday framed charges against 30 accused in the Intermediate topper   which had hogged the limelight in 2016. while framing of charges. 

 Five alleged masterminds of the scam — former   School Examination Board chairman Lalkeshwar Prasad Singh, secretary Harihar Nath Jha, VR College director Bachcha Rai alias  , Rajendra Balak High School principal Visheshwar Prasad and mathematics teacher   Suman — are still behind bars after the Patna high court rejected their bail petitions.
 
 The scam had surfaced after state toppers of Arts and Science streams could not answer even the basic questions asked by some media persons. Arts topper, then a minor, had pronounced political science as ‘prodigal science’ and said it was related to cooking.
 
 Public prosecutor (PP)   Singh and special vigilance   Anandi Singh said the special investigation team (SIT) of Patna police had filed chargesheet against 32 accused before the court on September 5, 2016. The chargesheet ran into more than 4100 pages. They said charges have been framed under different sections of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988 and Indian Penal Code (IPC). “Twenty of the 30 accused were government officials,” they said.
 
 “Additional charges were framed against Baccha for amassing ill-gotten money, which was more than Rs3 crore,” they said, adding huge number of land deeds, fixed deposits and   were recovered during the investigation, which was still going on.
 
 They said there were 41 accused, including three minors, in the entire scam. “While charges against two of the fake toppers, namely Saurav Sreshtha and Rahul Kumar, and 28 others were framed on Wednesday, the cases of three minor ‘toppers’, all girls, were pending before the juvenile justice board (JJB),” they said.
 
 They also said chargesheet against Lalkeshwar’s son-in-law Vivek Ranjan was yet to be filed by the police while the process of serving police papers to seven accused against whom SIT filed chargesheet after September 5, 2016, was still under process.
 
 
