NAGPUR: It seems Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has failed to learn from past fatalities in unguarded pits, trenches, and open manholes. There are many such dangers in many parts of the city, and pose a threat to citizens, especially children, with monsoon just a month away.

 A two-year-old toddler Aaniya Siyam reportedly fell into an unguarded pit dug by private water operator   (OCW) at 10.30am on Saturday, at   in North Nagpur. After receiving complaints of contaminated drinking water supply in the area, OCW had taken up repair of leakages in the pipeline. Pits were dug at 4-5 locations in the area. One of the pits was situated right in front of the Siyam family residence.
 
 Activist Sheikh Shahnawaz told TOI the toddler skid into the pit while playing near it. “She started to cry, which her grandmother   noticed. The pit had some water and also mud. Shanta raised an alarm, following which nearby residents rushed to the spot and rescued the girl,” he said.
 
 Shahnawaz said OCW had left the pit unguarded for over 8-10 days. “We called OCW and warned them of action after the incident. The pit was filled up on Sunday afternoon. It was a work of just a few hours, but abandoned for 8-10 days,” he said.
 
 Shahnawaz and residents of Dhammadeep Nagar also informed NMC officials about the incident. As usual, NMC took the issue very lightly and no action was taken against OCW.
 
 OCW has termed it as an accident. 
 
 “It was an unfortunate accidental incident, as OCW had taken all precautionary measures on site while doing necessary work to remove contamination issues at Dhammadeep Nagar. It is learnt that the kid slipped into the pit while playing on sand. The work at the site is over, and the pit restored. But taking serious cognisance of the incident, OCW’s safety experts are taking necessary action in this regard,” said the OCW spokesperson.
 
 Pictures with Shahnawaz clearly show there were no safety measures at the pit, excluding a tape lying around it.
 
 A visit to some other locations revealed pits and trenches made by NMC contractors for various works, like laying sewage lines, storm water drains, constructing chambers etc, too left unguarded. Best example is a pit that is around 5 feet deep and wide in diameter, which has been like this on the busy road between Pratap Nagar Square and   at Trisharan Nagar. There is no barricading or fencing around the pit.
 
 Corporator Prakash Bhoyar said construction of chamber for storm water drain or sewage lines was going on at the site. He assured to ensure safety measures at the site.
 
 Manholes on storm water drains and sewage lines too can be seen open in many places. Best examples are IRDP roads, where footpath has collapsed at the openings into the storm water drains.
 
 The pits, trenches and open manholes become invisible during monsoon, as they fill up with water, resulting in fatalities or injuries.
 
 A senior NMC official assured to look into the issue. “Water works department and zone offices will be asked to identify unguarded pits and initiate action against concerned contractors or engineers,” he said.
 
 
