KOLKATA:   continued to remain on the edge hours before polling for the   starts at 7am on Monday.

 Overnight clashes were reported in West Midnapore, Malda and South and North 24-Parganas. Three persons were killed — two in West Midnapore and one in Malda. While police said one West Midnapore death happened due to personal enmity, BJP claimed the victim was their supporter and lodged an FIR naming Trinamool supporters.
 
 The renewed spectre of violence which erupted in Bhangar on Friday not only refused to ebb but spread state-wide even as cops hit the street to restore confidence among an anxious electorate. Police teams conducted route marches in all volatile zones.
 
 Chief minister Mamata Banerjee on Sunday appealed to voters to cast their votes without fear. Banerjee, however, added that the administration would be hard on trouble-makers and will act promptly. She also urged the electorate to remain cautious about false propaganda in the name of “news” to incite people.
 
 According to the SEC sources, Monday’s polls will be held in 621 zilla parishads, 6,157 panchayat samitis and 31,827 gram panchayats.
 
 About 1,500 security personnel from Assam, Odisha, Sikkim and Andhra Pradesh are in the state to reinforce security arrangements for the polls.
 
 The SEC has, on the other hand, said all arrangements have been made for providing security. Around 71,500 armed personnel will be on duty, manning every booth.
 
 In West Midnapore’s Daspur, a 40-year-old trader died after killers slashed his windpipe at his Tatarpar home. Sukhdeb Maiti also had assault wounds on his back. The death prompted BJP to claim Maiti was their supporter and lodge an FIR blaming Trinamool Congress for his death. The victim’s wife, however, told police that Maiti and his business partner had a tiff over the Rs 1.2 lakh which Maiti had lent him. The murder, she alleged, was a fallout of that. Police arrested his business partner Jaganath Samui.
 
 In a separate incident, 56-year-old Monu Hansda was hacked to death in West Midnapore’s Keshiary. Two persons have been arrested in this connection.
 
 In Malda, one person was killed and another faced an attempt on her life on Saturday night. Early on Sunday, Ratua villagers found the body of a 45-year-old with bomb splinter wounds. He was later identified as Abdul Barek (45) of Bilaimari village. Md Jalaluddin, his kin, alleged Barek wasn’t a political activist and may have got caught in the bombing. Marjina Biwi of Mahishbathani under Malda PS was attacked with sharp weapons. She was stabbed with sickle on her head. Meanwhile, a woman Congress worker of Habibpur alleged that she was molested by a local Trinamool leader on Saturday night when she was returning home from a campaign. In Cooch Behar’s Dinhata, Trinamool worker Abidul Haque (25) was injured after being hit by a bullet.
 
 
 (With inputs from Sujay Khanra in West Midnapore and Subhro Maitra in Malda)
 
 
