For actor-dancer  , contesting in the adventure reality show   on Asianet was literally a leap of faith. Though she became a contestant through wild card entry, she made it through each daunting task with the same enthusiasm and caliber as the rest of the ladies, who were battling it out from day one of the show. Perhaps it was her steadfast attitude that brought her straight to the finale and even fetched her the winner’s trophy. 

 Paris Laxmi tells us what kept her going throughout the show and expresses her happiness, which she says knows no bounds.
 
 
 
 
 It feels great that I won! I had never been interested in reality shows earlier, however when I was approached for this show, the thought of being able to do daredevil acts excited me. The fact that Dare the Fear was an all-women show was also appealing. 
  Being part of the show was a completely new experience for me. I felt that this was one platform where girls get to show the world that they are as tough as men. 
 Initially, I never wanted to think about losing the show, and also did not want to plague my mind with unwarranted thoughts. While many might have fear of different things, I was constantly in the fear of losing, and always strove to be at my best in the race. 
 
 As we were nearing the final, we had all the best contestants competing with each other for the trophy, and everyone, who made it to the last stage, were well-deserving to be the winner. At that time, no one really knew what would happen, and I was ready to accept whatever the result was going to be. I wasn’t thinking about winning anymore. It was when the makers calculated all the scores we had attained till then that I was announced the winner.
 
 
 
 
 
 As I could perform a lot of adventurous tasks that required umpteen courage, I now have the knack to handle more of such similar stunts. I think it will help me as an actor as well, as we are often asked to do stunts as part of essaying characters in a film. I am now excited to try out these skills in movies too.
 Dare the Fear also had many other takeaways for me. I was never afraid of animals, and the only thing I was scared of was heights. Despite that, something inside me instilled the courage as I had no other choice but face heights for the tasks. I took everything in its stride in the show. In life, we tend to focus more on our fears rather than our skills. Post the show, whenever I am in tough situations, I tell myself, ‘If you were in the game, you would have done it anyway’.
 
 
 
 
 
 During the first few days, we were completely clueless about what the next day will have in store for us. I was always looking forward to the next task. I enjoyed doing the fire task, while rolling on a barrel, though it was physically demanding. The most challenging was the one upon a bridge, where we had to go down a ladder, as it called for a lot of arm strength. 
 
 
 
 
 
 I was not nervous at all, but I was curious how the rest of the contestants would react or what kind of a reception I will get from them, as I was making an entry halfway. I think a few of them were upset too, that I was not there from day one. Regardless, I think all of us had the same enthusiasm and physical capacity to complete each task and only that mattered ultimately.
 
 Then again, the pressure on me was tremendous. Even before I appeared for the first task, people around me started saying that everyone has high expectations about my performance and I have to meet them.
 
 
 
 
 When the makers of the show contacted me, my husband was a bit concerned about my safety. When I told him that the contestants will be backed by a professional team, he was relieved and gave me a thumbs up. The next ‘task’ was convincing my parents. As I knew they will be tensed about it, I had to tell my mother that it was quite unlike the adventure reality shows we have in France, and the tasks in this are a lot simpler. 
 
  My father did not know anything about it initially, and when he later saw the videos of the stunts, he realised how tough they were. He started panicking so much that at one point of time, he told my mother ‘Ask her to stop it’ (laughs). However, when I won the show, everyone including my parents and my brother were really happy. My friends in France were equally excited about it. My family really believed in me throughout the show.
 
