MEERUT: Uttar Pradesh police on Sunday conducted six encounters in the state in the past 24 hours, killing three miscreants. All the encounters were conducted within Meerut zone which has seen over 70% of all encounters in the state since March last year when   government took over.
 
  
 Shravan Chaudhary, a criminal with a bounty of Rs 1 lakh, was gunned down by Noida police early on Sunday. He was wanted in 14 cases of murder, abduction, loot and vehicle thefts in Delhi-NCR.
 
 Following a tip-off, Noida cops cornered a   on Sunday morning. The suspects opened fire andChaudhary was killed in retaliatory firing by the police. An AK-47, a rifle and cartridges were recovered from him.
  
  
 This comes days after encounter specialist and former Shamli SP Ajay Pal Singh who gunned down six criminals in the past one year, took over as  . 
  
  
 In another encounter in Saharanpur, Mohd Ahsan, who had a reward of Rs 25,000, was shot dead late on Saturday night. Police had been chasing him following a robbery on Saturday where bike-borne assailants had snatched Rs 1 lakh from a local resident. 
  
  
 In the third encounter, a criminal who had opened fire at a police team in Ghaziabad’s Vijaynagar succumbed to bullet injuries on Sunday evening. According to the police, the criminal, Sonu alias Sundar, a resident of Hapur with bounty of Rs 25,000, was injured in the retaliatory firing when police tried to nab him on Saturday evening. He was rushed to district hospital and succumbed to his injuries on Sunday.
  
 Meanwhile, half-a-dozen criminals sustained bullet injuries in another three encounters in the Meerut zone. Two criminals each were arrested in Noida, Muzaffarnagar and Ghaziabad while one was arrested in Bulandshahr in the past 24 hours.
  
  “Besides, more than 300 criminals, 182 in Ghaziabad and 124 in Saharanpur, with non-bailable warrants against them surrendered in the past 24 hours in Ghaziabad,” additional director general  , who supervised the Noida encounter, said.
  
  Even after criticism from certain sections, including human rights groups, encounters have continued unabated in the state with 47 criminals gunned down in close to 1,500 encounters in the past one year. Of these, 33 were killed in Meerut zone alone. “There is no place for criminals in Meerut region,” ADG Prashant Kumar said.
