The Malayalam film industry has been transforming like never before in the past few years, and one of the major changes is the advent of real life stories as themes in films, and/or a realistic approach in the making. Filmmakers attribute this trend to the changing tastes of the audience, who now prefer to see content they are familiar with on screen, rather than something completely improbable.

 Following Kamal’s Celluloid in 2013, a series of biopics including Aami and Captain made their entry, of Madhavikutty and footballer V P Sathyan respectively, while films like Ennu Ninte Moideen, Jacobinte Swargarajyam and Vimaanam were cinematic versions of real-life stories.
 But not many would know that a lot of other much discussed films were also based on true stories. Unlike in the case of the above mentioned movies, the real life characters of these movies often aren’t even aware that a movie has been made on them, or that it has been a hit. We take a look at some of them. 
 
 
 
  
 
 : Pulimurugan is not based on one person’s story but on similar hunters, actually tribals who live in forest borders across Kerala, says Udayakrishna, the film’s scriptwriter. “I grew up hearing many such stories. They know exactly how to dodge wild animals, and usually kill them only for a reason. But there was one particular story which hooked me, which was narrated to me by a forest range officer from Attappady. This hunter had a particular way of catching the tiger. They know that the tiger will eat its prey only three days after killing it. So he waited by the dead prey and killed the tiger by hitting it with his rifle’s handle.” Unlike in the movie, the hunter killed the tiger for its skin, and was later caught by the forest officers and handed over to the police, he adds.
 
 The film is set in an imaginary town called Puliyoor, and it’s not the Puliyoor near Pooyamkutti, he discloses. 
 
 
 : “Real life stories always have a special feel, and the viewers get the same feel as they watch the films. They exude the fragrance of life like nothing else can, and anyone who lives near a mountain range would be able to connect with the lives of people like Pulimurugan. When combined with cinematic elements, they make great hits too. The best part of watching Dangal was the note at the end which said that it is based on a true story,” says Udayakrishna.
 
 
 : Living anonymously in the forests of Attappady.
 
 
 
  
  
  The recently released thriller tells the story of a motley gang of prisoners who plot a smooth escape from jail. The story, says its director  , is based on the real-life characters that the scriptwriter, Dileep Kurian, came across. “Dileep works in a finance company, like the protagonist Jacob Varghese. For the sake of the film, he met some prisoners at the Kottayam sub-jail, spoke to them and studied them. The setting is an exact replica of the Kottayam sub-jail and the characters a fictionalised version of the prisoners he spoke to. I too visited jails in Kottayam, Pala and Thrissur and observed the routine and habits of the remand prisoners. We also interacted with the policemen who were very helpful,” says Tinu.
 However, the spectacular jailbreak in the film is entirely fictional.
 
 
 : “I feel a real-life story will always have an edge over pure imagination,” says Tinu. “It could be because a viewer might feel that this is something that could happen in his life and can thus relate better with the characters.” 
 
 
  There is little chance that the actual prisoners know that the film is based on them, says Tinu. “However, since they are all remand prisoners, they could have been given bail any time, and there are chances that some of them might have even watched the movie.”
 
 
 
 
  
 
 : Aashiq Abu’s Mayaanadhi essentially spoke of man-woman relationships in urban Kerala today, but the story line had the protagonist on the run, while the police make use of his girlfriend to nab him. The thread, says Dileesh Nair, one of the scriptwriters, is based on a true story which   came across during his Mumbai days. “The story was relayed to Amal by a police officer, an encounter specialist. While Tovino and Aishwarya Lekshmi are two urban college students who later try to make their own careers in the film, the original person was a Mumbai gangster and his girlfriend, a sex worker. She betrays him to the police intentionally, unlike in the film, and he is shot in an encounter,” says the scriptwriter.
 The final movie is thus a lot different from the original, the script writer says. “We wanted to explore male-female politics in urban life. Women living alone and single mothers were all added later.”
 
 
 : For a film with a realistic approach, a real-life story is always better, according to Dileesh. “Because we don’t need to add cinematic drama.” However, there is no such thing as a true story being better than fiction, he hastens to add. “Every filmmaker will have their own favourite story-telling method and it is up to them to make the film they want.”
 
 
 : The real incidents behind Mayaanadhi happened years ago, and the filmmakers haven’t even seen the real life couple, says Dileesh. “The gangster is of course, dead and we have no idea what happened to the sex worker.”
 
 
 
 : Angamaly Diaries with its ‘katta local’ settings and slang had a real-life ring to it all through and not surprisingly, it is based on several incidents which actually happened in Angamaly, reveals its director Lijo Jose Pellissery. The film’s writer Chemban Vinod is someone who grew up in Angamaly and the incidents in the film were all those he had seen or heard about in his neighbourhood, says Lijo. “We have added our imagination, of course but the basics are real. I also live nearby. The names we used for the characters are all those of living or dead people. The scenes involving pigs were shot in real farms in the area,” he says.
 
 
 : Lijo feels that the tastes of the Malayali audience have changed. “More than pure entertainers, people enjoy stories which could happen around them.”
 
  Still living in Angamaly
 
 
 
  
 
 : Sharrath Sandith’s film is about a man named Alex who is in prison for life. After eight years, Alex, who is let out on parole, tries to re-build his relationship with his family. The real-life Alex, says Sharrath, was someone its scriptwriter Ajith Poojappura knew in person. “Ajith was a prison officer earlier and the story is based on his experiences dealing with him. Ajith interacted with the person for months and this script is not at all fictional.”
 
 The names of the characters in the film, like Bullet Raghavan and Kottaram Vasu, are also of real people, apparently. 
 However, there has been an enhancement in the presentation, Sharrath says. “We didn’t want to do a raw film and wanted an entertainer with a pleasant, feel-good factor. So we made some changes to the script.”
 
 
 : A real story has a ring of genuineness to it, an undercurrent of real emotions, and that is what attracted him to the script, says Sharrath.
 
 
  “The real Alex is still in prison. He hasn’t seen the film, neither does he know about it.” 
 
