LUDHIANA: A team of officials visited   at Tajpur. During the hour-long visit, they checked barracks, hospital and other block in premises. Jail staff and inmates were also questioned. The officials are part of an inquiry committee formed by the high court on the writ petition of medical officer, Central Jail, Ludhiana Dr  . The committee will check irregularities in jail, including the case of attack on the medical officer by inmates. 

 In October, medical officer, Central Jail, Dr   filed a civil writ petition on the functioning of Punjab jails, especially in Ludhiana and against unhygienic food, drugs and other intoxicants supplied there. The court served a notice on the DGP and Ludhiana jail superintendent and has now formed an inquiry committee. The panel includes IG, STF Pramod Ban, police commissioner  , divisional commissioner,  , director, health and family welfare Dr Jaspal Kaur. 
 
 On Thursday, the team accompanied by police force, reached the Central Jail around 9pm. The petitioner, Dr Singh, former superintendent jail S P Khanna and former deputy superintendent Kamalpreet Singh Cheema were called to join the inquiry.
 
 Police commissioner R N Dhoke said, “The high court has formed a committee for investigation of irregularities in Central Jail alleged by the medical officer, including the attack on him by inmates against which the local police have already registered a case. On Thursday, the team checked the barracks, hospital and also interacted with inmates, hospital and jail staff. The team has also asked the jail staff to submit some records with the team.”
 
 The official also said surprise checks were conducted on February 12, with nearly 500 policemen part of the inquiry.
 
 Dr Swarandeep Singh accused former jail superintendent S P Khanna of helping inmates get drugs, syringes, women and weapons inside the jail premises. He said Khanna instigated jail inmates to attack him when he refused to favour a few inmates.
 
 Earlier, Dr Singh alleged, “Serious patients are not sent to hospital, even when they are referred by the jail doctor, on the grounds that guards are not available. However, when money is given, even a normal prisoner is referred to hospital and immediately taken there. Besides, inmates who are not sick are shifted to hospital by charging Rs 15,000,” the petitioner stated. He said he was being pressurised to admit jail inmates who were not ill and when he refused, he was attacked. 
 
 Dr Singh said inmates were provided poor quality food cooked in unhygienic conditions. Also, he said medicines were not being supplied as often, cartons delivered to the hospital were empty. He said there was no procedure to store patients’ medical files either.
 
 According to him, inmates who dared to speak up against authorities were tortured and given odd jobs. Drugs, liquor and women were easily available in state jails, he said, adding that prisoners are warned to maintain discipline during the visit of the district sessions judge.
 
 
