CHENNAI: Bowing to popular sentiment and growing political pressure, the   government on Monday sealed the Sterlite Copper unit in   to “close the plant permanently”. The move, coming a day ahead of a session of the Tamil Nadu legislative assembly, is likely to blunt the opposition attack on the government. The opposition has been demanding the resignation of chief minister Edappadi K   over last week’s police firing that killed 13 people.

 
  
 
 Talking to reporters at the AIADMK headquarters, chief minister Palaniswami said the government had issued the order for the permanent closure of the unit, respecting the sentiments of the people. “Representatives of several organisations met me today in the presence of deputy CM and other ministers, and requested for closure, the sole demand of the locals. The government met the demand by issuing an order today,” Palaniswami said.
 
 
 
 
 He also repeated earlier charges that the Sterlite managementfailedto adhere to the conditions laid down by the National Green Tribunal, and the refore the state pollution control board rejected their request for renewal of consent to operate on April 9, 2018. Power supply and water supply were disconnected to the unit subsequently. “There is a case pending in the court, but there is no stay (on government acting against the unit). The state will implement what is good for the people,” he said, while seeking support of the people of Tuticorin to the government and adding that normalcy is being restored in Tuticorin.
 
 Even though the Sterlite unit had been issued “closure notice” on a couple of occasions earlier, this is the first time the state government has directed the unit to be “sealed”. A team of state government officials headed by Tuticorin district collector   carried out the order.
 
 The team was acting on the order issued by Principal secretary to Tamil Nadu government - Environment and Forests, MD Nasimmuddin. “Under Sections, 18(1)(b) of the Water Act, 1974 in the larger public interest,the government endorse the closure direction of the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board and direct the TNPCB to seal the unit and close the plant permanently,” the order said. The order was issued within hours of deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam, fisheries minister D Jayakumar and information and publicity minister Kadambur CRaju visiting people injured in police firing and clashes, at the Tuticorin government hospital. Vedanta Limited called it an unfortunate development. “… We have operated the plant for over 22 years in most transparent and sustainable way, contributing to the Tuticorin and State’ssocio-economic development. We will study the order and decide on the future course of action,” the company that owns the copper smelter said in a statement.
 
 Opposition political parties including the DMK, Congress and the   have termed the move as “belated action”, after 13 people lost their lives in police firing, and “an eyewash”, while the DMDK has welcomed the move. The MDMK and Makkal NeedhiMaiam havecalledupon the state government to prevent thec ompany from getting relief through courts, something which it had managed to do in the past. It has been a tumultuous existence for the Sterlite Copper smelter, ever since the Sterlite Industries signed an MoU with the Tamil Nadu government in the early 90s when   was serving her first term as chief minister, to establish the unit at Tuticorin, after being driven away from   and Goa.
 
 It started operations in 1996 and in the last 22 years, it has been forced to shut down operations on three occasions, including once due to a blast inside the premises and another due to alleged gas leak.
 
 In the latest case, the plant was shut down since March 27, 2018, ostensibly for carrying out annual maintenance, and awaiting “consent to operate” from TNPCB, even while the protests started sometime in February itself. While the government has to an extent managed to tone down the political heat, it may still have a tough time when the assembly is convened on Tuesday, it may still be faced with many questions.
 
