SURAT: Even five months after expression of interest (EoI) was issued for safe operations of buried sour gas pipelines passing through Surat airport and the proposed runway extension project, Oil and Natural Gas Corporation ( ) is yet to hire a consultancy firm. 

 In December 2017, ONGC’s pipeline group, western offshore had invited EoI for hiring consultancy services for taking protection measures for 36-inch diameter and 42-inch diameter sour gas pipelines at Surat airport. The scope of work included suitable protection of the buried pipelines at Surat airport in compliance with international and national safety standards and operating practices. 
 
 The EOI further stated that both the 36-inch and 42-inch diameter South Bassein Hazira Trunk (SBHT) pipelines were laid in 1985 and 1996 respectively to transport sour dry natural gas from Bassein Platform A (BPA) and Bassein Platform B (BPB) offshore process platforms to onshore gas processing plant located at Hazira in Surat. 
 
 As of date, the volume of gas being transported is around 36 million metric standard cubic meter per day (MMSCMD) and 3,000 cubic meter per day (M3/day) of condensate at an operating pressure of 80kg per square centimetre (kg/cm2).
 
 ONGC raised concerns over safe operations of both the pipelines due to their proximity to the runway of Surat airport at  , which has undergone extension from 1,400 metre to 2,250 metre toward route of 42-inch diameter pipeline in south east direction in 2007 and from 2,250 metre to 2,905 metre toward route 36-inch diameter pipeline in north west direction in 2015-16. 
 
 At present, the 36-inch diameter pipeline is 250 metre away from the runway and 42-inch pipeline is 350 metre away. Further, the proposed extension from 2,905 metre to 3,705 metre toward route of 36-inch diameter pipeline will cross the pipeline and could create safety issues. 
 
 In a reply to   filed by  , ONGC’s gas terminal division, Mumbai stated that six parties had participated in the EoI meeting and that the work for consultancy work is under preparation prior to the award. At present, no hazard analysis survey has been done and that the cost of the project is yet to be undertaken.
 
 RTI activist Modi said, “It has been five months since the EoI was issued and ONGC is yet to hire a consultancy firm for safe operations of the buried sour gas pipelines. There is major threat to the airport and ONGC must start the work immediately.”
 
 
