NEW DELHI: An app has been designed by Swaniti Initiative, Ank Aha and Tata trusts to support Parliamentarians to better monitor their constituencies. The app, called   ( ) or ‘solution’ in Hindi, will provide an integrated platform for data on infrastructure and social indices for each constituency, information on about 50 central schemes and MP local area development (MPLAD) fund. 

 The move is expected to provide district-wise information to the MP on his constituency and help him or her take better decisions related to MPLAD funds. It is also aimed at improving coordination at the district level. MPs often complain that state and district authorities keep them out of the loop while making decisions about their constituency. There is also concern that in the run-up to the 2019 polls, the Centre must take ownership of flagship schemes like Jan Dhan and Swachh Bharat. 
 
 The app is being monitored by the   and developed by non-profit Swaniti Initiative and Ank Aha. In the next phase, this will be extended to include state schemes, and bring district magistrates and members of legislative assemblies on the platform.
 
 Ank Aha director Shantanu Agarwal said, "Elected representatives will now have data on their constituency, including literacy levels, number of schools, hospital beds among others. This will streamline decision-making related to development work."
 
 These digital trackers will ensure seamless coordination among all the elected representatives in parliament, district authorities, and local governments (panchayats, municipal bodies) for efficient and time-bound development.
 
 Through the app, complaints or appeals for help that reach the MP in a paper form can be scanned and uploaded by the parliamentarian. The information is then sorted according to its urgency and the area in which work is required. The app also provides for a DISHA tracker which is the district development coordination and monitoring committee. The MP can hold meetings with the district authorities on the app and assign tasks related to the work.
 
 About 20 MPs have already begun trials of the app and the rest will be encouraged to use it as soon as it is launched. Ank Aha will also conduct training workshops during the parliament session to bring MPs up to speed. 
 
