HYDERABAD: The Hyderabad Metropolitan Development Authority (HMDA) has served a show-cause notice on Avani Meadows Private Ltd, a real estate firm, located at Kollur-Tellapur on cancellation of draft layout approval given by it. HMDA issued the notice following a complaint filed by   plot owners’ welfare association, asking the firm to explain allegations of misrepresentation of facts about land disputes while obtaining draft layout approval.

 On Tuesday, at least 100 plot owners of Lakshmipuram visited the office of HMDA commissioner   and complained about the layout coming up in the area. The plot owners claiming title over survey numbers 174 to 177 and 180 to 190 asked HMDA not to issue any final layout and building permission and cancel the draft layout.
 
 T  , one of the plot owners, said: “All of us purchased the plots in panchayat layout spread over more than 82 acres between 1984 and 1986. Of the around 1,200 plot owners, many are retired employees. We are shocked to see that some part of this land is being converted into a layout. We submitted a representation to the district collector as well.”
 
 When contacted, Avani Meadows representatives refuted the allegations and said they have clear title over the land. Tulasi Raj of the firm told TOI: “We have replied to the show cause notice issued by HMDA. We have clear legal title over the land. Our layout is only a small area of the entire land here. We purchased it from those having legal title and obtained the draft layout permission. We were told that most of the Lakshmipuram plot owners sold their plots to areal estate company that was originally holding the entire area. None of them is actually in possession of the land for the past three decades.”
 
 A person, who bought a plot in Avani Meadows, said: “We took loans from financial institutions and purchased the plots. Legal teams of the financial institutions have verified the documents and cleared them. We are in a state of shock with the show-cause issue cropping up.”
 
