CHANDIGARH: More than 35 members belonging to over 15 theatre groups across the Tricity held a joint   against  , the current director of Tagore Theatre, outside the theatre’s main gate Sector 18 on Monday evening. They accused Kuldeep of discrimination, disrespect towards theatre artists, bending rules and mis-using theatre premises for rehearsals.

 The group of protesters, consisting of senior Tricity-based theatre artists, drama teachers, young actors and students of theatre raised slogans against Kuldeep while demanding his immediate removal from the UT administration.
 
 The protest was led by  , a city-based senior theatre artist associated with a group, Theatre House. 
 
  “On April 19, he threatened me in front of everyone in the rehearsal room of mini-auditorium by intending to slap me and throw me outside of Tagore Theatre premises. I only questioned him on why he asks all the artists to remove their shoes before entering the rehearsal room,” alleged Gaurav Sharma.
 
 “When I asked him that why isn’t he following his own rules, he told me very arrogantly that he is the director of the theatre and hence, he can do anything he wants.”
 
 Sharma had also called police and got a DRE registered against Sharma at the Sector 19-C Police Station. 
 
 Moreover, uncovering their experiences, numerous theatre artists from the Tricity shared their own personal experiences of discrimination and harassment against the director. 
 
 “He sometimes changes, cancels and re-schedules the slot or the booking of a play without intimating the concerned artists or the group. He sometimes replaces their slot with another play to serve his own personal purpose,” alleges an official.
 
 Preeti, a city-based theatre artist, associated with Lemondrops Art Group alleged, “My play, that was slated to be a part of a theatre festival, was removed eight days ago without any consultation with me and was replaced by another play by a Mumbai group whom he had personally invited.”
 
 A big concern shared by the artists was that Kuldeep Sharma does not allow them to display hoardings carrying posters of their plays at the entrance and the periphery of Tagore Theatre, not even inside the theatre complex. They were even asked to pay extra amount of money for placing only smaller stands of dimension of 8x2 at the entrance of Tagore Theatre and along the periphery. 
 
 “He can even give grants to the theatre groups from Mumbai in lakhs and get their hoardings displayed all over the city. Why this discrimination?,” alleged Gaurav.
 
 An MoU enlisting their demands and problems along with signatures from theatre groups across the Tricity will also be submitted to the governor, adviser and the home secretary by Wednesday, said a protester. 
 
 
