Coimbatore: State-owned Bank of India (BoI) has claimed back Rs 7,000 crore disbursed against standby letters of credit (SBLC) issued by other banks in the last two months, a top official said.  The bank is in the process of claiming another Rs 2,000 crore disbursed against SBLCs, said N Damodharan, executive director, BoI. Typically an Indian bank, say BoI’s New York branch, would give funding against SBLC’s issued by other Indian banks that do not have branches there. SBLC is a financial commitment. If the company that took the loan originally doesn’t service it properly, BoI can invoke the SBLC and other banks have to make payment to the branch. If the SBLC is not invoked then it would become an NPA (non-performing asset).  BoI said that it has not been impacted by the developments in South Africa where state-run lender Bank of Baroda is facing losses on loans given to Gupta family companies that have filed for bankruptcy.  “We don’t have any adverse impact in South Africa,” Damodharan stated.  “We will be looking at our overseas operations rationally,” he said when asked about the recent episodes of Indian banks taking a hit due to massive frauds. “There are multiple checks and balances. We have a robust audit system in place,” he stated. Incidentally, the massive fraud in state-run Punjab National Bank (PNB) involved LOUs (letters of undertaking) issued by the bank that resulted in other banks providing funding to companies owned by Nirav Modi. The loans, which were allegedly given without any collateral, has taken a toll on PNB and the banking system. BoI has chalked out a turnaround plan after the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) imposed restrictions on it under the Prompt Corrective Action (PCA) framework. The bank is aiming to bring down its net NPA ratio substantially. “Our aim is to bring it (net NPAs) to below 6%,” Damodharan, who was in the city to disburse loans at the bank’s ‘SME and Agri Expo’, said. BoI’s net NPA stood at 10.29% at the end of December. BoI is focusing on retail loans, which have grown 22% in the first nine months of 2017-18. The bank has not tightened its norms for providing loans to MSME’s (micro, small and medium enterprises) in the wake of the recent frauds in the banking sector, Damodharan said. About 85% of the bank’s accounts have been linked with Aadhaar, he said.