PUNE:   Gupta (31) and his family had to   from Delhi to Chandigarh by road after   (AI) diverted the flight for the north Indian city to the national capital on December 21. 

 A fortnight has passed since then and the businessman from Pune is yet to get the refund promised by the carrier. Travel agent  , who had booked three tickets for his family, has a similar story to share. 
 
  
  
 
 “Three of us — including my wife and child — had taken the AI flight from Pune to Chandigarh. The flight was 45 minutes late. Once we boarded, it took half-an-hour to take off. Midway through, the pilot announced that the flight will land in Delhi as there was too much fog in Chandigarh. Once the flight landed in Delhi, I collected our luggage and went to the AI counter where they were announcing that a bus was being arranged for all to Chandigarh and the air ticket amount will be refunded,” Jayesh said.
 
 “We stood in the queue to register ourselves for the refund and got a receipt for it. When I enquired about the bus, the staffers said it will take around 45 minutes. One bus had left by then and we were told that the next two buses will take at least 2 hours to come. As we had to attend a wedding in Chandigarh, we couldn’t wait and had to cancel the bus service. We took a cab instead. At the counter, we were told that the refund will reach us in 5-6 working days. I have the receipt, but there’s no information about the refund,” he added.
 
 Santosh, on the other hand, said he was still following up with the airline about the refund. “The refund amount goes up to Rs 14,000. The problem is the confusion the airline is creating. I have called up their call centre many a time, but they appear clueless about the flight getting diverted. Whenever I have called, they just tell me to contact the city office of the airline. I have been also asked to visit the airport and talk to the officials at the counter. I am sure that the airline will pay the refund. But I am concerned as no proper information is being passed on to passengers,” he told TOI.
 
 An AI official said “Flight AI 814 could not land in Chandigarh after circling over the airport there because of low visibility on December 21. Around 15.35 hours, it was diverted to Delhi. Kindly ask the agent to write to us directly as we require details of passengers such as names, PNR numbers and ticket numbers.”
 
 
