KOLKATA: Four days before his 85th birthday, and 48 hours after his muse’s 97th, Nemai Ghosh is gravely anxious.

 To the Ray-loving Bengali, Ghosh probably needs no introduction. “What will happen to all the archival material I have of Manik-da? They need to be preserved and handed over to the next generations. We are only two-three years from his birth centenary, I see no preparation whatsoever,” Satyajit Ray’s “photo-biographer” (as Henri Cartier-Bresson called him) thinks aloud, as he’s waiting at the premiere of the documentary-feature on him at Alliance Française.
 
 The Padmashree awardee was referring to his astonishing range of 60,000 rare photographs of Ray in a myriad moods. Ghosh is as concerned about the fate of 40,000 exquisite pictures of Uttam Kumar, Suchitra Sen and several other stars of the silver screen.
 
 This worry figures significantly in the film ‘Nemai Ghosh: A Ray of Light’. The documentary by Anirban Mitra deals with the world of Satyajit Ray, seen through the lens of the photographer extraordinaire. “All these years I have urged people to come forward and take my collection, but not a single person, neither collectors nor documentary-makers on Ray’s life, came forward. Even two decades after his demise, we don’t have a permanent gallery of the man who took Bengali cinema to the world stage,” his frustration echoes in the last scenes of the film.
 
 Before the screening, in an interview, the man who Ray had described as his  , says: “Years ago, when I had said I would throw all these photographs in the Ganga, Delhi Art Gallery had acquired 10,000 of Ray’s production photographs. I have gifted a few hundred to St Xavier’s College and   Club. But there are still thousands of them in my Bhowanipur home.... People don’t realise how precious those are. There’s too much politics in art.”
 
 Ghosh has exhibited at Cannes 1991, London in 1992, in Delhi and elsewhere in the country many times, where several colour pictures of Satyajit Ray were also put up. “But black-and-white pulls me. We say black-and-white but there are so many colours in between. I feel I must bring out those different hues. I am more comfortable with black-and-white and the analogue camera. Colour is not in my control. I have often seen after printing, everyone’s skin tone in the picture changes. Or the hair, which is such a crucial thing in a photograph, looks all wrong. That’s why I prefer black-and-white.”
 
 Ironically, he’s had many takers at galleries in London, Paris and Japan. “But I always waited for that Indian connoisseur, preferring not to give away the rich heritage outside India,” he sighs.
 
 Ghosh turns to watch himself in the 48-minute black-and-white flick depicting 50 years of his creative excellence. “The narration has been recorded in the UK by artist  . The cinematography is specially designed in keeping with the subject of photography, chiaroscuro, or the blending of light and shade,” he says, watching the composite theme around Ray, photography and himself. The backdrop is Kolkata. “Both Ray and Ghosh have said they don’t feel creative enough outside Kolkata,” explains Mitra, who has been a still photographer since 2003, working extensively in both analogue and digital media.
 
 It’s Ghosh’s treasure trove that had inspired the 39-year-old lensman and his associate producer Tirtha Dasgupta to make the movie. “Tirtha and I would listen to Ghosh’s stories of the sixties and seventies; we thought we needed to tell these stories to our future generation,” says Mitra.
 
 For that, Ghosh is immensely grateful: “At my last exhibition in Anderson Club, there were so many young people, curious about Ray. I think we have failed to quench this curiosity. The role of government is very important in preserving any heritage. There’s no constructive effort anywhere. Yet, there’s the SRFTI, but it’s too ridden with trouble. I watch with apprehension at Manik-da turning into a topic for annual Facebook posts. These posts are so mechanical and momentary. I think India’s tallest figure in international cinema deserves more than these mechanical gestures.”
 
 
