NEW DELHI:A   using the   and vehicle of another one registered with the company has been   for   a   during a ride from   in   to   in northwest Delhi. The incident took place on March 9. The cab, interestingly, didn’t have a commercial registration and the driver didn’t have a driving licence.

 According to DCP (north-west) Aslam Khan, the accused has been identified as Sanjeev, a resident of Gannaur in Haryana. “He used to drive the vehicle, a Swift, though he was not registered as its driver,” said Khan. An FIR under sections of IPC related to abduction, confinement, threat and voyeurism was registered at Mahendra Park police station. 
 
 The woman, who works for a fertilizer company, had booked an outstation cab from her parents’ house in Kundli area to go to Sector 3 in Rohini. While boarding the cab, she noticed that it did not have a yellow number plate. It also had tinted glasses. During the ride, she became all the more suspicious as the driver’s face did not match with the image of the driver provided by Uber on her mobile app. 
 
 In her complaint, the woman said she felt the driver was making unwanted advances towards her. She soon realized, she said, that he was taking a different and secluded route than the one she used to usually take for reaching her home. Scared, she tried to get out from the vehicle at a traffic signal but the driver allegedly locked the doors using the central locking system and threatened her.
 
 However, the cab ran out of fuel and the driver turned towards a CNG station. As the cab slowed down, the woman managed to unlock the door and jump out of the car. She then called up the cops even as the driver left the spot. 
 
 “A special team, led by ACP Kumar Abhishek and SHO Virender Kadyan, was formed to track down the driver. The details of the vehicle and driver were obtained from Uber and the origin of the vehicle was traced to Janti Kalan village in Sonepat, Haryana. The team then went to the village,” Khan added. Finally, it tracked down the vehicle and found the driver sleeping inside it in a drunken state. He was arrested and the car seized.
 
 Reacting to the incident, a spokesperson of Uber said the driver was immediately removed from the platform. “We regret the unfortunate experience the rider had during her trip. Uber takes the safety of riders and drivers using the Uber App extremely seriously. The drivers in the present incident have violated the terms of the agreement that Uber signs with its driver-partners. Such behaviour puts our riders and driver partners at risk and is not tolerated,” said the spokesperson. 
 
 “We immediately removed the driver partner’s access to the Uber App and will take strict action against him for letting an unregistered driver without a licence access his account and take trips via Uber App. We will also take strict action against the unauthorised driver. We stand ready to support law-enforcement authorities with any information needed for their investigation.” said the statement.
 
 
