SRINAGAR: A slugfest erupted between alliance partners Peoples Democratic Party ( ) and   in the Jammu & Kashmir assembly on Monday, prompting the speaker to suspend the question hour, when the killings of two stone-pelters in   firing last week was to be taken up. 

 On Saturday, a mob of 200 people attacked an Army convoy at Shopian’s Ganowpora village. In retaliatory firing, two youths were killed and another was injured. On Sunday, police booked Major Aditya and the Army’s 10 Garhwal for murder and attempt to murder for the killings. 
 
 In the assembly, BJP MLAs demanded the dropping of the Major’s name from the FIR, saying the move would demoralise the armed forces. Chief minister Mehbooba Mufti of PDP rejected the demand, saying the state government had already ordered a magisterial probe into the incident. 
 
 “The state government should withdraw the FIR against the Army officer and lodge a fresh one without naming anybody,” BJP’s RS Pathania told the House as soon as the session began. 
 
 Mehbooba said the probe into the “unfortunate incident” would be taken to its logical end. “The Army would not be demoralised by an FIR. There can be black sheep in the Army also,” she told the House. 
 
 She said the Army had ignored a police advisory to avoid the Gawanpora route. “During the meeting of the Unified Headquarters recently, I asked the forces to show restraint in controlling law and order. I directed them to fire in the air,” she said. 
 
 Demanding action against the “erring soldiers”, former CM and National Conference leader   said, “Security forces fired bullets on the chests and heads of the victims. The cycle of killing must end. We want to end this bloodshed.” He added, “No opposition party is playing politics over the issue. Instead, it is being played by the ruling alliance partners... BJP’s demand for the withdrawal of the FIR shows the partners are on a collision course.” He accused the government of creating confusion by ordering a magisterial probe and also registering an FIR against the Major. “A magisterial probe is ordered if culprits are unidentified, but the accused is named in the FIR,” he said. 
 
 In the evening, the state government appointed Shopian district magistrate Aijaz Ahmad to investigate the incident, and said the recording of witness statements would begin from Tuesday. 
 
 J&K DGP SP Vaid said the Army’s version would be taken into account during the probe. “We will go through all the facts and evidence of the case and the Army will be questioned,” he added. 
 
 The Army said its personnel opened firing in self-defence after seven soldiers were injured in stone-pelting and the mob attempted to snatch the weapons of an officer. 
 
