Vadodara: Life took a tragic turn for 46-year-old Amisha Soni, a native of Vadodara, who is presently a citizen of Canada.  After her husband’s death 20 years ago, Toronto-based Amisha had raised her only son as a single mother. But she faced another tragedy of her life when her 24-year-old son Dhairya was declared brain dead on March 1.  But this did not deter Amisha from donating organs of her son – a decision which has helped save lives of four persons including three male and a female recipient in Canada.  It was just in December last that Dhairya had graduated after doing business management and organisational skills with specialisation in commercial aviation management from University of Western Ontario. But the promising aviation enthusiast met an accident on February 14 when he fell down inside the washroom of his residence and suffered massive bleeding in his brain.  “He was first taken to the nearest hospital and later transferred to a specialised hospital. Doctors attending him were trying all the measures but his brain had kept swelling and all functions gradually started to stop,” Amisha told TOI. She was raising Dhairya alone ever since he was just two-and-a half year old when his father died of a heart disease.  It was on March 1 that the doctors did the confirmatory test after which Dhairya was declared brain dead.  “The doctors in the ICU brought up the issue of organ donation as everything else including his heart were normal. We gave the consent for organ donation as by his very nature Dhairya used to help everybody including strangers. We felt that in his last time too he can help others,” she said.  The family later gave consent for donating Dhairya’s organs.  “He saved four lives as one recipient got his kidney and pancreas, other person got his kidney, a third person got his liver and a female got his heart,” said Amisha, who had immigrated to Canada in 2004 when her son was 11 years old and continued with her medical transcription work which she had started in Vadodara.  Dhairya’s funeral witnessed presence of nearly 600 persons including his colleagues at the Air Cadet (who conducted a march and provided a salute in their uniforms), his friends from the university and the high schools apart from those from the church.  “He used to volunteer every Thursday in a food bank in the church. When was doing his internship in CIBC bank during summer 2017, he introduced the bank to the church food bank after which the bank made a corporate donation of dollars 2,000,” she added. 