KOCHI: The   board has thrown several differently-abled students and those with   studying in grade 12 into the deep end of the pool a month before the board exams are to kick-off.

 Parents and school authorities told TOI under the condition of anonymity that they had applied for the exemptions/concessions as per procedure, a year before the board examination but were shocked to learn that their wards have been denied the same barely two months before the exam.
 
 Some of the parents then took up the matter with the help of school authorities and managed to get the exceptions a week before.
 
 “Initially, it put us in a very difficult situation. My son had undertaken the grade 10 examinations with extra time but this year they were suspicious whether his issues are genuine,” said the father of a student with severe motor problems on his right hand.
 
 He said that the news that he won’t be allowed additional time was traumatic for his son. “He is kind of a perfectionist and was unwilling to take chance with poor results. He has always been fighting an uphill battle. The biggest problem is that we were informed in the last minute,” he added.
 
  
  
 
 A similar problem was faced by a child who had applied for a scribe.
 
 “My son suffers from dysgraphia and his writing is not legible. He has always been writing examinations using a scribe. When we got the news in January that he would not be allowed a scribe, we were completely dumbfounded,” said the parent. His ward was permitted the exemptions in class 10. The child was accorded the permission to use a scribe after they took up the matter with the board.
 
 But hundreds of others did not have the same luck.
 
 Dr Ajeesh  , a psychiatric consultant with the government mental health centre,  , said that one of the reasons why many applications were rejected this year was because several doctors used the new terms to address the learning disability according to the new diagnostics and statistical manual of mental disorders (DSM-5).
 
 “The new terms such as disorder of written expression instead of dysgraphia were suggested by the guidelines in the DSM-5 in order to be more sensitive to the issue but this created a lot of confusion with CBSE. Many certificates were rejected and had to be reissued," said Dr Ramachandran.
 
 Currently, there are only a handful of schools that admit differently-abled students and students with learning disabilities and if CBSE continues to put pressure on students and school, then the institutions that are presently willing to admit such students will show reluctance in the coming years, said  , a student counsellor.
 
 The struggle parents have to endure to get certificates that will legitimize their claim for concession for their wards is very hard.
 
 “We have to get the certificate from a government doctor and there is only one person authorized in each district for both state syllabus and CBSE school students. The doctor would meet only a handful of people every day and we have to line-up outside the doctor’s office around 5:30am. If we are lucky, then we would get the token to meet the doctor. After that, there are a slew of tests that the students have to undergo before the certificate is issued. All of this done a year before the board examination but we only the get news whether the application is accepted barely two months before the examination,” said a parent.
 
