HYDERABAD: Rohith Vemula’s mother   accepted a compensation of ₹8 lakh offered by the   (UoH) on Tuesday, nearly two years after her son’s death.

 Soon after   committed suicide at UoH on January 17, 2016, the university authorities had offered a compensation of ₹8 lakh, but the Vemula’s family had then refused to accept it.
 
 On Tuesday, kin of Vemula accepted the ₹8 lakh offered by the university, confirmed  , UoH spokesperson. “The compensation amount was available for their perusal since last month. We had issued a letter to them stating that they can collect the same by February 20,” said Pavarala.
 
 In a press release issued by the research scholar’s mother, she said the decision to accept the compensation was taken following the advice of legal and social supporters.
 
 
 
 
 “I've learned that this money is being paid not at the behest of Apparao (UoH vice-chancellor) but as per the orders of the National Commission for Scheduled Castes (NCSC). You may recall that the NCSC under the leadership of P L Punia had declared that my son Rohith was a Dalit,” read the press release.
 
 Vemula’s mother further stated that the declaration to accept the money was being made public to ensure ‘transparency’ in the matter. “I did not want rumours flying around that Radhika Vemula has made a secret deal with the university and accepted money… I want to state in no uncertain terms that the acceptance of this compensation, which is rightfully due to the family and dependants of Rohith Vemula, is in no way a compromise with the university management,” stated Radhika Vemula, in thestatement.
 
 It may be recalledthat Raja Vemula, Rohith’s brother was alsooffered a jobby Delhi chief minister Arvind Kejriwal. Even the Andhra Pradesh government had offered an ex gratia of ₹5 lakh and a contract teacher’s job to Rohith’s brother. While the family rejected the job offers, they had accepted the All India Muslim League offer to construct a two-bedroom house on 160 sq yards of land at Koppuravuru, which is located between Vijayawada and Guntur towns.
 
