NAGPUR: The city’s sex ratio at birth has continued to be low. The birth of 933 girl children has been recorded as against 1,000 boys in 2017 which suggests that sex determination continues in the city.

 The Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) has compiled data of births registered in the city in the last 12 months. The total number of births is 56,161 of which 29,039 are boys and 27,122 girls. The ratio comes to 933/1,000. In 2016 it was 930/1,000.
 
 An official from the birth and death registration department told TOI that the central government had set a target for all civic bodies to achieve 994/1,000 sex ratio at birth. “Sex ratio at birth should be 951/1,000 and anything below this is questionable,” he said.
 
 Unfortunately, 2017’s sex ratio at birth is also much less than the overall sex ratio of the city. As per 2011 population census, it was 961/1,000. The ratio is higher than the child sex ratio of 921/1,000.
 
 The only silver lining is that the city’s sex ratio at birth is better than the average ratio of state and nation recorded in 2016 which was 899 and 919, respectively.
 
 Municipal commissioner Ashwin Mudgal told TOI that the city’s ratio was better when compared with other metro cities of the state. “The NMC is taking all efforts for effective implementation of the Pre-Conception and Pre-Natal Diagnostic Techniques (PCPNDT) Act. Along with monitoring and action, awareness among the people is must to ensure no sex determination tests are conducted. The NMC too is working on this and therefore introduced schemes like   — special insurance for girl child,” he said.
 
 NMC health officer Dr   ruled out sex determination tests taking place within city limits. “Regular monitoring of ultrasound sonography tests ( ) is being done. The 16-member PCPNDT Committee comprising representatives of various fields meet once in two months and ensure PCPNDT implementation in an effective manner,” he said.
 
 President of the Vidarbha chapter of Maharashtra State Branch Indian Radiological and Imaging Association (IRIA) Dr  , too while ruling out tests in city, said the sex ratio at birth is improving. “I think the trend of having no more than one child if the first is a boy is on the rise. This is one of the reasons behind sex ratio at birth being low. We sought information under   in this regard from the state government. But the government is not having any such data,” he said.
 
 Onkar added that the NMC has started to implement PCPNDT Act effectively. “Earlier it was only on paper. Dummy patients are sent to radiology centres or hospitals by the authorities to ensure no tests are carried out. Such initiatives should be taken up more,” he said.
 
 Senior radiologist Dr Nayeem Khan suggested that the government should make pre-intimation mandatory for medical treatment of pregnancy (MTP). “It is mandatory for radiology centres to register patient’s name online before tests. But it is not mandatory when it comes to  . Hospitals have to submit information after MTP. Government machinery is taking data of each and every USG test from radiology centres and wasting time. The details of MTPs should be taken from hospitals and the data analyzed properly,” he said.
 
 
