GURUGRAM: Two   wanted in several robbery and dacoity cases were arrested after a brief gunfight with police on Friday afternoon. The two were nabbed after a high-speed chase that lasted for around half an hour in   village which is near Delhi. Police said one of the assailants suffered bullet injuries in retaliatory firing.

 The two wanted criminals — Sumit alias Lala (30), a Jhajjar resident, and Sonu alias Doctor (26) who is from Rohtak — have several cases of robbery and dacoity registered against them, according to police. Lala suffered a bullet injury during the gunfight and is undergoing treatment at General Hospital in Civil Lines.
 
 Police had launched a hunt for the two gangsters after a property dealer was robbed of Rs 12.5 lakh at gun point on March 23. 
 
 On Friday, the crime branch unit in   swung into action after it received a tip-off that these gangsters were plotting a robbery at another property dealer’s home in Bajghera.
 
 A team of 16 officials of the crime branch unit led by inspector Sajjan Singh rushed to Bajghera in four cars. They started chasing the accused who arrived at Bajghera from Delhi in a silver Boleno car bearing the number DL 6CQ 5133 around 1.30pm. Upon seeing the crime branch officials, they started speeding towards Delhi in a bid to escape, police said. “During the chase, the duo opened fire at police cars. Even a few villagers informed police control room about the gunfight. When the control room called us, we told them that the gangsters were firing at us,” said inspector Singh.
 
 When the accused started speeding towards Najafgarh in Delhi via Bajghera road, police intercepted them by covering from all sides. As a result, the gangsters lost control over their car, which rammed into a wall and later hit one of the police cars. 
 
 Police said that they retaliated when the duo fired around eight shots at them. Sonu drove the car while Lala was on a passenger’s seat. Both of them were arrested on the spot around 2pm. Around 3pm, police commissioner Sandeep Khirwar, DCP Sumit Kuhar and ACP Sumer Singh visited the spot for investigation. Cops seized two pistols from them.
 
 An FIR was registered at Bajghera police station against the gangsters under section 307 (attempt to murder), 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from his duty), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions), 285 (negligent conduct with respect to fire or combustible matter) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of IPC and the Arms Act.
 
 “The accused will be produced in court on Saturday. These men have been involved in several crimes and we hope to solve several cases with their arrest,” said deputy police commissioner Sumit Kuhar. 
 
 
