Chennai/Mumbai: Companies that are undergoing   got some respite in the  . Provisions relating to   ( ) have been eased for sick companies. Further, the acquirer will be better equipped to carry forward and set off loss, which in turn will improve valuation of sick companies. 

 While computing profit on which MAT would be levied, a   is allowed for unabsorbed depreciation or brought forward loss, whichever is lower. An amendment has been proposed to allow companies, against whom a proceeding for corporate insolvency process has been admitted, to claim a deduction for both unabsorbed depreciation and brought forward loss. This proposal is in line with a press release issued by the Finance Ministry on January 6 
 
 “Under current provisions, where the brought forward loss or unabsorbed depreciation was nil, no deduction was allowed to arrive at the adjusted book profit on which MAT would be computed. The amendment will remove the barrier for rehabilitating companies seeking insolvency resolution,” says Abhishek Goenka, direct tax leader at  . Any significant change in shareholding of a company, under a resolution plan, approved under the   ( ), will not result in lapse of carried forward loss of such company. The income tax authorities will be given a reasonable opportunity of being heard in the insolvency process. Currently, to enable carry forward and set off of loss, a continuity of at least 51% shareholding is required. 
 
 Vipul Jhaveri, managing partner, tax, at Deloitte India says these amendments have material implication from a tax cost perspective and will make takeover of the sick company more lucrative from a tax perspective. “This is a critical move and will help in improving valuation.”
 
 “Overall, tThe government is trying to bring in changes in regulatory and tax framework to make the IBC process work. An enabling amendment or a circular to clarify that any benefit derived by a company on writing back loan waived by the lender shall not be subject to tax would help curtail potential litigation as benefit derived by a company on waiver of loan by its lenders have been held by certain judicial precedents as taxable,” said Kumarmanglam Vijay, partner, J Sagar Associates, a law firm.
 
 “In case of several distress sales, the companies had significant unabsorbed depreciation. There was no bar on carry forward and set off of such depreciation. With carry forward of loss now being allowed, another hurdle has been removed,” Goenka added.
 
 Girish Vanvari, partner and tax head at KPMG India, said: “Two key issues remain to be addressed. When there is a writeback of debt, this is liable to payment of tax under MAT. Second, in the case of acquisition of sick companies, the real value is lower than stock market value, the excess becomes income in the hands of the acquirer.”
 
 
