After   performed his first comic theatre act in Gurgaon, it was veteran actor Asrani’s turn to get Gurugrammers rolling with laughter. He performed for the first time in the city in a play titled Makhichoos, staged at the Orana Convention Centre in Sector 63. The play, based on French playwright  's comedy, The Miser, focussed on Topan Lal (played by  ), a sixty year-old spendthrift and his strained relationship with his two kids. The musical farce saw references to cricket (Topan Lal’s son describing his love interest as 'Woh hai Dhoni ka helicopter shot, kya bataun kitni hai woh hot') and pop culture thrown in with characters often breaking the fourth wall to talk to the audience.

 
  
  Asrani with   and Pranav Sachdev, the actors who played his kids
 
 
 From a cricket-obsessed son to a daughter who spends too much time doing makeup and a cop who spoke his lines like a ramlila actor, the play adapted Moliere’s characters to the Indian setting as the play was set in a fictional town called Pom Pom Nagri. Perhaps the most enjoyable moment of the performance was a bit when Asrani’s character talked to his house helps and kids about an upcoming dinner party with the dialogue and mannerisms aping his iconic jailor from Sholay. "Hum angrezon ke zamane ke kanjoos hain," the actor began as the crowd erupted in laughter and applause. For most in the crowd, who were in splits throughout the five-act comedy, it was the first chance to watch Asrani live. Kishore Singh, a Golf Course Extension resident, said, "I have been a fan of his acting and comic timing for decades. To see him at the top of his game and have such energy at this age is not just endearing but inspiring." The veteran actor said he was touched by the reception he got from Gurgaon's audience. "I have toured with the likes of Laxmikant-Pyarelal and performed in places like US, Canada, and Europe. But the love and respect for artists I saw here, I have never seen that anywhere else," said Asrani.
 
 
  
  Some Ramlila inspo 
 
 
