NEW DELHI: A cut in oil prices looked imminent on Tuesday with the government busy crunching numbers for reducing the excise duty on motor fuels and looking at alternatives to soften the blow from bubbling crude as petrol and diesel prices notched up fresh records at Rs 76.87 and Rs 68.08 a litre, respectively, in Delhi — the reference market — on Tuesday.

 
 An indication of the government’s desire to scale down the relentless rise in pump prices came from none other than BJP president   when he said it was a matter of concern in the highest echelons of the government and will be addressed in a few days.
 
  
  
 
 “As far as (rising) petrol prices are concerned, the government is taking it very seriously. Tomorrow (Wednesday) the oil minister will be holding a meeting with all the oil companies. The government is looking into the reasons for the rising prices and will certainly come out with a formula to deal with it or resolve the matter in 2-4 days. The oil minister has also informed the people about this today” Shah told reporters.
 
  
  
 Shah’s remarks make it amply clear that the decision to provide relief has been taken at the political level and the administrative details are being sewn up by the concerned arms of the government, namely the Prime Minister’s Office and the ministries of oil and finance.
 
 As reported by TOI on Monday, oil minister   had first raised hopes of a reduction in excise duty on Sunday, saying the Centre was “alive to the rising fuel prices”. “Various alternatives are being explored. I hope something will work out soon,” he had told reporters in Bhubaneswar.
 
 The minister blamed “the unilateral decision of   to reduce production, political instability in   and the prospect of US sanctions against Iran” for the steady rise in fuel prices. Last week, Pradhan also spoke to his Saudi counterpart,  , arguing for a “reasonable and stable price regime” in the oil market.
 
 
  
  
 
 The various factors pushed the global benchmark crude, Brent, beyond $80 a barrel on Tuesday. Almost on cue, refined product prices, which serve as benchmark for pump rates, have also shot up. The combined impact has been amplified by a falling rupee. With oil refusing to show any sign of cooling off anytime soon, the government has little room to avoid a duty cut.
 
 The Centre had raised excise duty nine times between November 2014 and January 2016 when oil prices practically went into a free fall. Altogether, excise was raised by Rs 11.77 per litre on petrol and Rs 13.47 on diesel before being pared in October 2017. This more than doubled the government’s excise mop-up to Rs 2,42,000 crore in 2016-17 from Rs 99,000 crore in 2014-15.
 
 
  
  
 
 At the time, both Pradhan and finance minister   had told   that the Centre was keeping part of the relief to fund infrastructure projects and welfare schemes for the poor. An excise duty reduction at this point could squeeze the Centre’s spending ability as every Re 1 cut results in a revenue loss of Rs 13,000 crore annually.
 
 
