TRICHY: To verify the city’s claim on public sanitation and   (SWM) practices, officials for second consecutive day inspected crucial spots in the city on Tuesday. Three teams each comprising wo people deputed by   Bharat Mission (SBM) inspected various spots including public toilets, residential area, and market. Unlike the previous surveys, the ongoing Swachh Survekshan 2018 is said to be an improvised version, according to civic body workers in grading cities based on sanitation facilities by pursuing micro level inspections.

 After verifying documentation works and also inspecting a couple of places in the city on Monday, the three teams each assigned a task respectively to check the municipal documentation, receive feedback from the public, and to conduct on field inspection went on with their confidential itinerary on Tuesday. 
 
 While a team of officials were receiving citizen feedback through face-to-face interaction with denizens by questioning the corporation’s performance in solid waste management and allied activities, another team of officials from SBM inspected   and pulveriser machine kept in banana auction centre to dispose the abandoned banana bunches.
 
 “We are sure about improving our position from sixth place in Swachh Survekshan 2017 and foraying again into top three places of Swachh Survekshan 2018. Public cooperation and their patronage were aiding us a lot in implementing all the cleanliness drives,” corporation commissioner   said. 
 
 The team during field inspection visited   and Ponmalai zones in the morning while   zone including micro compost yards and main dump yard in Ariyamangalam were inspected on Tuesday evening.
 
 Citizen feedback was one of three categories that saw the civic body losing ranks to other cities in previous surveys. 
 
 As city’s pulse would be checked by collecting response from citizens against six specific questions covering issues on general cleanliness, solid waste management, and sanitation-related progress made by the civic body over the year, Trichy corporation made use of social media platforms to promote awareness about the six questions among the residents. 
 
 As the survey is expected to conclude by Wednesday, corporation sources said that they will be awaiting the Swachh Survekshan 2018 results touted to be out in next few months.
 
 
