MHOW:   with the help of  , ISRO and   are preparing   to clearly mark each and every areas falling under   in the state to solve the dispute regarding area of control between them. 

 ASP (rural) Nagendra Singh said that work on the project is in progress across the state on directions of police headquarters. It is being done as a part of police modernisation programme that can become compatible for using technology. “In this project, maps are being prepared with help of modern satellite. The maps will help the police teams as well as Dial 100 vehicles to find the exact location of the crime and reach out to the complainant without any delay,” said Singh.
 
 Explaining about this state-wide project, Singh said that the project has become priority of police headquarters of the state. Google will be used to find a location. An app, Bhuvan, developed by the ISRO and which is just like Google Earth, will also be used to prepare the maps. The pictures and data taken by the NASA are consulted for the project.
 
 The maps are being prepared in digital format because they will be meant for use via smart phones, palm tops and monitors fitted in the patrol or Dial 100 vehicles.
 
 Many police stations that share borders in Indore, Dhar and Khargone districts enter into dispute over jurisdiction. There are three points: Manpur and Gujri on Agra-Bombay highway, Manpur and Lebad on Indore-Ahmedabad highway and Rau and Pithampur on Agra-Bombay highway- where such problems arise because presently the areas under their limits are not clearly demarcated. 
 
 In case of an accident on Manpur and Gujri stretch, the confusion over the areas of jurisdiction arises among the cops of Manpur, Maheshwar and Dhamnod police stations since their area of control lies on a single a stretch of about eight kilometres on the AB road. Interestingly all three police stations fall under different districts- Indore, Khargone and Dhar respectively.
 
 Singh said that the new maps will clearly demarcate the boundaries with respect to the police stations. Thus, the police officials will be able to find out their area of jurisdiction by referring the new maps.
 
 Indore SP (west) Vivek Singh said that the making of improvised maps was in the final stage. They had been sent to the respective police stations to cross-check their accuracy at police station level. The maps will be put in use in the whole district once the police stations return them with their suggestions or corrections if any. “It is being done firstly in Indore as a pilot project. They will be the sole property of the police and will not be meant for public,” said Vivek.
 
 
