NOIDA: After breaking the so-called ‘Noida jinx’ last month, chief minister   will make his second visit to the district, this time to inaugurate the 22nd National   (NYF) at   in   on Friday. 

 The Prime Minister will address the young participants via video conferencing at 12 pm. The four-day annual event is being organised in the GBU campus this year.
 
 While the PM’s programme is yet to be confirmed, the CM, who was expected to be occupied with the Gorakhpur Mahotsav, which will begin on the same day, confirmed his arrival for the inauguration to the district administration on Wednesday.
 
 He is likely to remain in Greater Noida for two hours, from 12pm to 2pm. 
 
 A senior official of the administration said a confirmatory call was received at the district magistrate’s office around 4.30pm on Friday, but a written schedule is still awaited. 
 
 If the CM attends the ceremony, he will deliver an inaugural address after the PM’s message.
 
 Major General Dilawar Singh, director general,   (NYKS), said, “We’re expecting the cabinet secretary, the Niti Aayog CEO, the Chief Information Commissioner (CIC) and the Election Commissioner too.” The programme will comprise 37 sporting events among other competitions.
 
 The entire event appears to have been designed with a flavour of the PM’s pet Start-up India campaign announced in August 2015.Organised under the theme “Sankalp se siddhi (pledge to accomplishment)”, the NYF will include lectures by young achievers including Farrhad Acidwalla, 24, an entrepreneur, investor and public speaker. Farrhad, who had three successful start-ups by the age of 21, will share his experiences along with other young achievers.
 
 The event is dedicated to Swami Vivekananda and is inaugurated on his birthday, January 12, every year. 
 
 A rendition of his famous Chicago address will also be played at the festival.
 
 A national youth parliament will also be held on January 15, in which around 1,700 youths of NYKS, National Service Scheme (NSS) and 200 other youths, including national awardees, etc, will participate.
 
 
