GUNTUR: The   Municipal Corporation’s ( ) move to develop all peripheral roads into four and six lane is set to boost the overall growth of the city. 

 The move was initially criticised by residents as the civic body was pouring crores of rupees on roads with lesser traffic while ignoring the widening of major roads. Unfazed, the GMC convinced the state government and got its approval for development of inter-city roads. A senior official of town planning wing at GMC, said: “Development of roads connecting cities is important for the growth of the city. We can’t keep on spending money on infrastructure within the city.”
 
 He said that construction of big roads and widening of smaller ones on the outskirts will help people, at least those with small income, to move in here and live happily as buying or renting a house within the city has become expensive. Providing better infrastructure in the villages that have been merged into the city, and inter-city roads are on the top of GMC’s agenda to free the city from congestion.
 
 Sources said that the population of the city is increasing at a rapid pace after bifurcation of the state. Although, the 2011 census put the city population at 6.5 lakh, the town planning wing is assessing that it might already have reached 8.5 lakh to 9 lakh. Sources said the city is believed to have added at least one lakh people in the past two years alone. “Migration of employees and labourers from other parts of the state is the main reason,” said an official.
 
 GMC commissioner C Anuradha, said: “We have planned the development of peripheral roads to de-congest the city.” While the GMC is developing three important inter-city roads, the construction of another three roads has been handed over to the roads and buildings department. The plan seems to have worked as realtors have started moving to the outskirts with new ventures. Realtors are aggressively pushing the projects on the outskirts as people from neighbouring villages or towns will try to settle down there if better infrastructure is available. Big roads lead to building of other facilities such as malls, showrooms, hospitals, educational institutes, and hotels. 
 
 K Siva Reddy, president of Credai, Guntur, said: “I have been arguing with fellow members to develop ventures on the outskirts, and help the middle-class and low-income people settle there.” 
 
 In fact, the Eturukur road, which is being developed as a model road, with a width of 120 ft, has already witnessed a dramatic change as many branded showrooms have come up in the area, which earlier bore the look of a slum.
 
 
