Visakhapatnam: Ahead of the Partnership Summit-2018 this month-end, Visakhapatnam Urban Development Authority (Vuda) will add a range of attractions to the recently-inaugurated   aircraft museum. The aircraft museum, which was inaugurated on December 2017, was an instant hit with Vizagites and tourists, drawing more than 4,000 visitors a day. 

 During the holiday season, the aircraft museum has witnessed serpentine queues with visitors trying to get a glimpse of the new attraction of the city. Now, Vuda wants to maintain it in a spick and span condition by handing over the maintenance works, which also covers the technical aspects, to a private agency. The aerobridge constructed at the exit of the aircraft will be moved horizontally to the lift facility at the premises, which otherwise has covered up one of the propellers of the aircraft.
 
 Recently, the museum got the flap gates as well as three more simulator games at the game zone. On Monday, Vuda conducted a meeting with TU-142 designers’ team as well as Navy officials to discuss the maintenance of U-142 and renovation proposals for the Kurusura submarine.
 
 Vuda vice-chairman P Basanth Kumar said that they will create an AV room facility at the TU-142 aircraft museum. “As the content is two-dimensional, we have decided to play it on a screen through a projector instead of playing it on virtual reality headsets. The museum will also get an interactive audio facility. These facilities will be in place by February 20,” he said.
 
 Kumar added: “We have also discussed about the performance and product range of souvenir shop at the aircraft museum. We will hand over all the museum and aircraft museum maintenance works to a private agency, other than security and ticketing services, as part of the annual maintenance contract (AMC) to keep everything intact.”
 
 After exterior renovation works were completed for Kurusura submarine museum, some patches were found in the hull during the sand-blasting process. At the same time, Vuda also wants to strengthen the bottom of the submarine museum, which may require 7-8 tonnes of marine grade steel. “Navy has agreed to send a technical committee to evaluate the submarine and promised to supply the marine steel,” said Basanth Kumar.
 
 After the strengthening process is over, a team comprising structural engineers from Andhra University, naval constructor and submarine technical officer will participate in the hull inspection of the submarine. “On the lines of TU-142 aircraft museum, we want to hand over all maintenance works of the submarine to the AMC agency to address all issues. Earlier, the technical aspects were missing in AMC. We want to maintain the submarine through the AMC,” said Basanth Kumar.
 
 
