NEW DELHI: Claiming that the highest number of atrocities against Dalits and murders had taken place in Karnataka, BJP ridiculed Congress president Rahul Gandhi for sitting on what it called "mithyagrah" (farce of a fast) and not "satyagrah". 

  "The Congress has fallen into its own trap. What we have seen from Rahul Gandhi today is not a fast but the farce of a fast. It was an attempt by his party to fast-track his politics to burnish his credentials despite people rejecting him time and again," BJP spokesperson Sambit Patra said.The BJP latched on to pictures of Delhi Congress leaders having a meal at a restaurant before they were to sit on a fast at Rajghat to claim that the opposition party's "double standards" were exposed and that it had ridiculed Mahatma Gandhi's principle of "satyagrah". 
 
 "Congress made a joke of Dalits as its leaders cannot abstain from one meal and their president Rahul Gandhi cannot wake up in morning even for a day as they are used to politics of luxury," Patra said, referring to the fast that started at 10.30 am which Rahul joined at 1 pm. 
 
  Patra said the Congress leaders' act was in contrast with the "politics of performance" of PM Narendra Modi. "Modiji comes from a common family belonging to backward caste and has worked to bring Dalits in the mainstream, socially and economically," he said. Patra also attacked Rahul for calling Modi anti-Dalit, saying the Congress denied Dalits financial inclusion during its long rule and its leaders could not forego one meal for them. "It is the Congress which is anti-Dalit, not Modi who economically and socially empowered them with schemes like Jan Dhan and Mudra," he said. 
 
 Terming Congress's decision to keep anti-Sikh riots accused Sajjan Kumar and Jagdish Tytler away from the dais at Rajghat an admission of guilt, Patra said, "Congress's nation-wide fast was a drama as its leaders had come to Mahatma Gandhi's memorial to talk about non-violence but the presence of Kumar and Tytler exposed the party's real violent face."
 
 
