Coimbatore: Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Monday inaugurated the insect museum at the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University. The museum, which has been constructed at a cost of Rs 5 crore, will be useful for students and farmers alike, Palaniswami said. “The museum has displays of both beneficial and harmful insects. Students, not only from TNAU, but from all institutions should visit the museum and gain knowledge. Farmers can learn more about insects, their life cycle and how to control them,” he said. The CM said he had earlier thought of inaugurating the museum through video conferencing. “But minister for agriculture and animal husbandry R Doraikkannu, minister for municipal administration SP Velumani and principal secretary for agriculture Gagandeep Singh Bedi asked me to visit the place so that I would come to know about its unique features,” he said. The facility is claimed to be the first insect museum in India. Earlier, Gagandeep Singh Bedi said though there were other insect museums around the world, they were specialised museums. “There are specialised museums on butterflies, bugs other insects. But, the museum in TNAU has all insects such as ants, flies, bees, butterflies and silkworms under one roof,” he said. Minister for agriculture and animal husbandry R Doraikkannu said insects pose a major problem in agriculture. “Due to insects, we lose from 15% to 20% produce every year. This takes a toll on the economy of farming. In this background, the museum would be of importance as it gives information on beneficial and harmful insects. Farmers, students and researchers would gain knowledge about insects if they visit the place. Farmers would know how to preserve beneficial insects and control the spread of harmful insects,” he added. The museum, which has been built on an area of 6,691sqft, has an exhibit area that has seven radial walls with displays under themes such as insect diversity, insect biology, beneficial insects, insects and plants and cultural entomology. Curated specimen of 27 orders of insects are on display.  The museum also has TV screens, which display insect-related information, insect shaped dioramas and a souvenir shop.