Some prefer fierce German Shepards while others melt at the sight of a cuddly Cocker Spaniel. For some, it’s the Great Dane and some love carrying little Chihuahuas. The qualities that attract you to a certain breed can be subjective to your personal preferences. There are a number of factors involved in choosing the right breed for oneself. For example aversion of long fur can be one of the reasons a lot of people prefer dog breeds like Labradors or Beagles. In the same way, many of us prefer the punched faced Boxers and Pugs to a Golden Retriever.

  One such important factor is the size of the dog. Some prefer large-sized   because of their intimidating looks while others prefer tiny toy dogs because they look cute. The size of your house is also an important factor while choosing your dog. It is not wise to keep a large dog in a small apartment where there may not be enough space for him to play and exercise. 
 
  Another factor is the age. Little do people know that smaller breeds tend to live longer than large breeds. A Great Dane (one of the largest dog breeds) has a life span of 8-10 years and a Chihuahua (smallest dog breed) can live up to 18 years. 
 
  A recent research conducted by Dr Cornelia Kraus from Germany studied 56,000 dogs from 74 different breeds. It suggested that for every increase of 4.4 pounds of body weight, a dog’s lifespan decreases by one month. Larger dogs age quickly because they grow faster. For example a Great Dane grows ten folds in the first year itself. This is a major reason why cells in their body start deteriorating at an accelerated pace. This results in large dogs getting age-related diseases sooner than smaller dogs.
 
  The life span of a dog is vitally affected by the way they are cared for too. While our large companions might have shorter lifespans, the way we care for them can make their years with us healthy and happy.
 
  
 
 
  Are you a proud pet parent? Have a cute cat story to share? Maybe your guinea pig is giving you trouble? Whatever is your creature companion, we are here to listen to you. Mention your full name and your city, and send your photos, queries and stories to 
 
 
 
