MYSURU: Recent video footage of leopards prowling in villages on the fringe of forests has not only spread fear among people, but has also forced them to change their daily routine to protect themselves and their livestock.

 Only a few days ago, a leopard entered a shed located at Bandipalya near   belonging to Ramakrishne Gowda, a banana trader.   was sleeping inside the shed when the leopard entered through an opening that was made to allow his two dogs — Rama and Sita — to pass in and out freely. Although Gowda managed to save himself, he could not save Rama.
 
 
 The incident has left Gowda’s family scarred. “Even though I am not frightened, I am more careful now because of the experience,” Gowda said. He has now installed a metal gate for his shed.
 
 At  , located at the foot of Chamundi Hills, residents regularly sight leopards prowling around in the night. Recently a cow belonging to   G K was attacked and injured.
 
 “I used to tie my cows in front of my house on a vacant piece of land,” Lokesh said. “But after incident, I now tie them inside the compound. Thanks to leopards, people who used to begin their morning walk at 4.30am are now only venturing out after 6am. We have lived in this area for the past 30 years, but leopards have been sighted here only in the past five years.”
 
 Similarly, most residents of Keremaala, another area near the hillock, ensure they are home before 9pm. Savithri, a resident of   and a petty shop owner, says she shuts shop by 4pm so that she can get home by 7pm. “Even though leopards have not attacked a human here, they have killed dogs and cattle,” she said. “I always advise relatives who intend to visit us in the evening to be careful or to come the next morning.”
 
 Livestock owner   N from  , lights a fire near the shed which houses his livestock and, armed with a stick, keeps vigil the entire night. Recently, a leopard had killed two of his cows. “I constructed a shed to keep around 150 sheep and goats safe from leopards,” he said. Some of my family members also stay up with me. The loss of even one cow is huge for us.”
 
