NEW DELHI: Chief minister Arvind Kejriwal on Thursday urged lieutenant governor Anil Baijal to intervene to either amend Master Plan 2021 immediately or request the central government to bring in an ordinance to stop the  . 

 The chief minister alleged in his letter that the traders’ current plight could have been avoided had the corporations and the central government taken a decision in time to bridge the policy deficits. “After understanding the causes of sealing and remedial measures thereof, I request you to immediately undertake needful action,” Kejriwal wrote. 
 
 The floor area ratio (FAR) for local shopping centres, the   demanded, should be increased from 180 to 300 and conversion charges for them should be brought down to those of notified commercial roads. He said that the FAR rates for basements and the conversion charges be notified immediately at par with upper floors. The penalty on delayed payments of conversion charges should also be waived off, he wrote.
 
  Kejriwal made the same appeal to the Centre in his Republic Day speech. Kejriwal said he was “deeply pained to see the condition of the   in the wake of the sealing exercise being carried out by the civic bodies of the city”. He added, “The traders work very hard. If their business establishments are closed, who will provide employment to so many people in the city?” 
 
 The chief minister promised that his government would provide all possible cooperation to the Centre for stopping the sealing drive. It is being carried out following the directives of a Supreme Court-mandated monitoring committee.
 
 Later in the day, Kejriwal wrote to Baijal, “With pain and anguish, I wish to bring to your notice the plight of the business community across Delhi facing the wrath of sealing at the hands of MCD.”
 
 Kejriwal went on to point out that the business community had still not recovered from the ill-effects of demonetisation and GST, and now they were being forced to face the sealing drive. “Without equipping the traders with competitive skills to compete with foreign entities entering into the market on account of FDI, the sealing drive has started, which has caused unimaginable suffering to the business community.” 
 
 Meanwhile, several AAP functionaries claimed that in the past 10 years, the civic bodies had collected Rs 3,000 crore as conversion and parking charges but didn’t utilise the funds for development of markets. “These funds were meant to be utilised for this purpose but were diverted,” said AAP Delhi chief spokesperson Saurabh Bharadwaj.
 
 On January 29, AAP will organise a march to Parliament in protest against the sealing drive.
 
 
