NEW DELHI: There was intense political drama outside the   on Monday as chief minister  , with his cabinet colleagues, Rajya Sabha MP   and  , sat on a   for over three hours over the  . LG Anil   was willing to meet the CM with his cabinet colleagues and MP but without the MLAs. The CM insisted on taking all the MLAs with him and the dharna had to be concluded without any meeting. 

 Kejriwal then asked his MLAs to take the issue of installing CCTV cameras to the people across the city and convey to them that the “BJP through the LG was trying to obstruct the CCTV work.” With the party preparing to garner public sympathy over the CCTV project, AAP’s key pre-poll promise, ahead of the Lok Sabha polls next year, the MLAs are likely to be seen holding public meetings at the ward level in the next few weeks. The CM announced that this would be followed by a huge rally.
 
 Attacking the LG over his proposal for a high-level committee on the project, Kejriwal said: “People will make the standard operating procedure (for installation of CCTVs). The women and RWAs will decide where the cameras would be installed, not any committee constituted by a ‘shahenshah’ (emperor).”
 
 “The standard operating procedures will be made in consultation with the people. In the huge gathering at the city level, the SOPs and people’s suggestions would be discussed with the people,” he said.
 
 Earlier, Kejriwal marched from his residence in Civil Lines, with his cabinet colleagues and MLAs, for about 2km under tight security to reach the LG’s office. A huge posse of policemen was present. Before the march, he addresed reporters. “In the committee formed by the LG, representatives from the police and central government have been included but there are no representative of the Delhi government,” he said. During the march, the MLAs raised slogans against the LG and BJP, accusing the former of "trying to stall the CCTV project under pressure from the BJP."
 
 As soon as the CM reached the LG’s office, a police officer informed him that the LG was ready to meet him and his cabinet colleagues but not the MLAs. This lead to a stalemate and the subsequent dharna. The MLAs chanted Mahatma Gandhi's favourite bhajan, “Raghupati Raghav, Raja Ram”, with a twist to say “LG ko sanmati de bhagwan (God grant good sense to the LG). Despite the scorching heat, the dharna continued for three hours during which Kejriwal tweeted to urge the LG to meet him with all MLAs. 
 
 Sources in the police said that the CM was informed twice about the LG’s willingness to meet him, his cabinet ministers and the MP. “Once we also informed that some of the MLAs could be taken for the meeting, but the CM did not agree for it either,” said a police officer. Sources claimed that 60 people could not have been accommodated inside.
 
 The dharna ended around 6:40pm after the CM addressed those present at the site.
 
 
