UDAIPUR: In a five-year-old case, an   sentenced life imprisonment to a Beawar-based businessman who had poisoned his wife and three kids while they were coming to Udaipur on a family trip. The accused had laced their cold drinks with poison when the family had stopped at a midway dhaba for refreshments.

 The accused  , a resident of Beawar city, was under financial crisis and often quarrelled with his wife asking her to bring money from her parents to solve their problems. He was under debts and his business too had badly suffered. His wife Priyanka, two sons Vishal (7), Sagar (5) and a 2.5-year-old daughter Poorva lived with him. On October 26, 2013, the man told his wife and kids for an Udaipur trip and they set off in their car. In the midway, he brought cold drinks from a dhaba and mixed poison in them. He too consumed the drink with the intention of killing himself and as they approached near Cheerwa valley in Udaipur, the kids’ and wife's condition worsened.
 
 They complained nausea and vomited inside the car. To give the incident an accident look, the accused hit the car on a divider so that the car went sliding through the dip. Police had rushed the victims to the hospital where the woman and kids died while the accused survived. The autopsy report claimed that the deaths had not been caused of accident but poison consumption.
 
 Priyanka's father lodged a murder complaint against his son-in-law upon which the Sukher police had arrested the accused. It was known that   had a dairy business and also had a part time tyre business which didn't do well. He had taken loans from many people and was unable to repay them. The couple fought with each other very often and were under tremendous stress.
 
 The police produced 12 witnesses and 34 documents in support of the charges. Finally, the   gave him life sentence. 
 
 The court held that it was the accused responsibility to look after his wife and kids, instead he killed them which is a detestable act. However, since the mode of killing was not brutal, hence he didn't deserve the severest of punishment that is death sentence.
 
 
