Gurgaon: In a tournament in which Indians have traditionally struggled, Haryana girl   Dagar, 17, returned with the best numbers ever by an Indian   at the Queen Sirikit Cup, which concluded in   on May 11.

 Diksha totalled four-under over the three days, the lowest any Indian has gone in the Cup’s history, to finish tied for fifth alongside Japan’s Ayaka Furue. Diksha opened with a four-under 68 to sit second, and though she fell away on day two, dropping to a three-over 75, she finished strongly, with a three-under 69.
 
 Diksha’s performance helped India to sixth place in the 14-team event (narrowly won by the Koreans), as she, Anika Varma and Pranavi Urs combined well at the Thana City Country Club.
 
 India’s number one amateur for the past three years, Diksha has been in the middle of a purple patch. In March, she won the Singapore Ladies Amateur Open. Barely a month later, she qualified for the Asian Games. So, it was a confident young woman who set off for the 40th Queen Sirikit Cup, the most prestigious stop for lady amateurs in the Asia-Pacific.
 
 In Diksha’s sights now is the continent’s biggest multi-sports event. “My focus in the last three-four years has been the Asian Games. I want to play in the  , and want to do well, so all my energies and preparations have been towards that,” she told TOI.
 
 Almost unnoticed, Diksha has made impressive strides since 2015. Anitya Chand, head professional at DLF Golf and Country Club, calls her a “quick learner”. She has, naturally, added inches to her height, and strength to her body, to the extent that she is now among the longest hitters in India, averaging between 260 and 270 yards off the tee. “She has the distance now required to score well,” believes her father, Colonel Narinder Dagar.
 
 And last year, Diksha won her maiden professional event on the Hero Women’s Pro Golf Tour. She shot under par (66, 71, 70) on each of the three days at the Classic Golf & Country Club, to finish an emphatic 11 strokes clear of the field. It was a performance that spoke highly of her talent, temperament and quiet intensity.
 
 Ultimately, the 2018 Asiad (to be held in Jakarta and Palembang, Indonesia, from August 18 to September 2) is a stepping stone to the Olympics. But Diksha Dagar is happy to take things one sweet step at a time.
 
 
