PANAJI: The state government has issued new guidelines regarding expenditure incurred by the chairman, vice-chairman of corporations/autonomous bodies, including   guidelines on official visits.   expenses for a chairman is to be restricted to Rs 10,000 per month and for vice-chairman to Rs 7,500 per month.

 The department of finance stated that the chairman/vice-chairman (except in case of ministers of those holding cabinet rank) will travel by economy class air travel and 1st class AC by rail within the country on official visit. “A maximum of six such trips will be permissible within the country without prior permission (including stay, food and other miscellaneous expenditure),” the memorandum stated.
 
 The new office memorandum has been issued by the department of finance.
 
 According to it, a chairman can have one driver, one multi-tasking attendant, two personal assistants and one personal secretary. “In case of a chairman being a minister or holding cabinet rank then he shall be entitled to one personal secretary in the corporation concerned,” the memorandum stated.
 
 In case of vice-chairman, he/she can engage one driver, multi-tasking assistant, personal assistant and personal secretary. “In case of vice-chairman being a minister or holding cabinet rank than he shall be entitled to engage one personal secretary in the corporation concerned,” stated the memorandum.
 
 In case of the chairman/ vice-chairman being an MLA then he/she shall be allowed all the entitlements of staffing and other perquisites/facilities as applicable to an MLA, in addition to the above.
 
 The chairman/vice-chairman (except in case of ministers holding cabinet rank) may be provided with residential telephone connection (with STD facility) and a mobile phone as per the entitlement of ministers. The total bill per month payable by the corporation shall be restricted to Rs 6,000 per month subject to a maximum of Rs 80,000 per year.
 
 Vehicles for the official use of chairman/vice-chairman (except in case of ministers of those holding cabinet rank) would be as per existing guidelines issued by the finance department. “A maximum amount of 400 litres of petrol/diesel consumption will be provided on a monthly basis,” the department said.
 
 
