MUMBAI: A   actor and a   who teamed up to rob an elderly   of valuables worth Rs 14 lakh at her Goregaon   were   by Dindoshi   within three days of the crime on Tuesday. 

 The actor, Roshan Pandey, wanted money to rent a place near Film City. He confided in his friend, Prakash Kamat, who had been employed as a house help at the victim’s home for the past seven months. 
 
  
 According to the police, the 76-year-old victim lived with her son and daughter-in-law at Gokuldham in   East. The family owns two petrol pumps. Kamat was hired on the reference of a previous house help who had quit. The family, though, did not get Kamat’s background verified through local police.
 
 “Pandey has acted in Bhojpuri films. He did not have a place to stay in the city and had moved into Kamat’s home in a chawl. Kamat knew that the victim used to be alone at home in the afternoons when everybody was out on work. He was confident that the family trusted him and would never suspect his involvement in the crime. Kamat and Pandey conducted a recce of the flat on April 13,” said senior inspector Rajaram Vanmane.
 
 From time to time, Kamat had stolen valuables from the flat which had gone undetected. This had boosted his confidence. On April 14, he asked Pandey to cover his face with a mask and enter the building. Around 3.30pm, Kamat let Pandey into the flat while the victim was asleep. He asked Pandey to stay hidden in a room next to the terrace. “Kamat had been planning the crime for a week. He had come prepared with duplicate cupboard keys, hammers and pieces of cloth to tie up the victim,” said investigating officer Ghanshyam Nair. 
 
 Kamat went to the victim and told her that he had to leave for his home for an emergency. He then gestured to Pandey to come downstairs. Pandey threatened the victim at knifepoint and ended up injuring her face when she offered resistance. Pandey then blindfolded her and tied her hands and feet. Kamat, who was waiting in another room all this while, proceeded to empty the cupboards and vaults of valuables. He asked Pandey to cart off valuables worth Rs 14 lakh. Ten minutes after Pandey left, Kamat rushed to the victim's aid and pretended that he had just returned from his home visit. Kamat also called up the cops and the victim’s son. 
 
 But the police found Kamat’s sudden home trip and return very suspicious. They also checked his phone records. On sustained grilling, Kamat broke down and confessed to the crime. On Tuesday, cops arrested Pandey from Behrambaug in Jogeshwari and recovered valuables worth Rs 10.5 lakh. Both Kamat and Pandey are first-time offenders.
 
 
