NEW DELHI: The final seal of victory may depend on whether   forms the government in   or not but the close-to-majority tally is a significant political boost. The party's 26-seat lead was accompanied by   losing more than 40 seats it had held.

 
 BJP emerged at the top of the heap in an election that had JD(S) turning in a strong performance. It rose to a tough challenge and countered chief minister  's caste and welfare policies. It stopped tantalisingly short of a majority in the only southern state where the party has been in office before, a development that generates hopes for 2019 Lok Sabha numbers.
 
 The possibility of a Congress-JD(S) alliance - even though it will mean ceding of considerable political space by Congress - should make BJP keen to push for government formation. While BJP's central leadership can be credited for having named B S Yeddyurappa as its chief ministerial candidate, micro- and macro-management of the elections seem to have worked. The rule set by the   dispensation of making 75 the cut-off age for holding a post was set aside for BSY. This paid off as the Lingayat leader delivered. The 75-year age rule was used to move veterans like L K Advani and M M Joshi to a "margdarshak mandal".
 
 While "Modi magic" may have helped pick up the tempo among BJP supporters as the PM campaigned in the last leg, the party's core support base in the state is credited to BSY and K S Eshwarappa, who nurtured BJP's growth in the state from an early stage.
 
 One of the first things Shah did was to ease factional feuds within the party, forcing BSY and Eshwarappa to put up a united front. Much of this was achieved by ensuring that ticket distribution was managed by Shah himself. He sternly warned them from declaring "unilateral" choices.
 
 BJP's focused line of attack on the Siddaramaiah-led Congress government helped the party gain groumd. Its campaign focused on attacking Siddaramaiah for favouring certain castes and communities with policies and polarising voters on issues like Tipu Sultan's legacy, and projecting the Modi government as a proactive regime at the Centre that could benefit the state if it had the same party in office.
 
 The H D Deve Gowda-led JD(S), which bagged 37 seats, cut into anti-BJP votes. The BJP campaign praising Deve Gowda also helped diminish Congress to BJP's advantage.
 
 However, BJP's significant results will only shine as a big victory if Shah is able to lure some of the winners from the opponents' camps to his side to form a majority gover nment.
 
