It was in the year 2000 that actress   made her presence felt on the silver screen with her debut film Sathyam Shivam Sundaram. Thanks to the hit songs   and Walking in the moonlight, film lovers still remember her as she is on the comeback path nearly a decade and a half after she quit the scene. The first film in her second innings was Fahadh Faasil’s film Role Models released last year. As the actress waits for her next release  , which also has Fahadh Faasil in the lead, she shares her aspirations with us.

 
 
 
 After Lalettan starrer Onnaman, I focused on my post-graduation. Since then, though I got several offers including in Tamil, the characters were not attractive enough. My father was working in Dubai so I joined him there and dabbled in real estate at a time when it was a boom time for that field. The days in Dubai taught me a lot about life and money management. I also got married to  , a business professional in Dubai. But I became frustrated with the 9 to 5 office routine and craved to rekindle my passion for acting. I must thank Vikas for encouraging me to take up films again.
 
 
 
 
 The producer of the film Satyam, Shivam, Sundaram was my father’s friend. They were looking for a fresh face for the heroine’s role and I landed the same. That is how I became Chakochi’s (actor  ) female lead. Later Onnaman and Savithriyute Aranjanam happened in 2001 and 2002 respectively. Being a newcomer, it was a struggle in those days. After moving to Dubai, though there was a break from my film career, I became a part of various international theatre production teams there. I even won the best actress award at the first edition of ‘Short + Sweet Theatre’, a festival of 10-minute plays in Dubai in 2013. But somewhere along the way, I felt that I was just surviving in life in Dubai. Life becomes beautiful only when we do something that we love. So I returned to Kerala to regain my space in the movie industry.
 
 
 
 
 I was little nervous when I faced the camera after 14 years for Role Models. But I enjoyed my role as Loose Lucy, a comic character in the film. Though I had only a few scenes, I was excited to do a comic role for the first time in my life. Fahadh is a very promising and talented actor. He is also very professional. But when the camera is off, he is very jovial and friendly.
 
 
 
 
 Actresses like Manju Warrier and Asha Sharath are depicting strong female characters. No longer do they just cast 18-year-olds as heroines but also more mature actresses. 
 
 These days, the filmmakers are choosing more realistic and progressive subjects. Mayaanadhi, Thondimuthalum Driksakshiyum and Parava are the examples. Queen was another vibrant movie filled with youthfulness. These movies have episodes that the audience find it easy to relate to.
 
 Another thing I noticed is that directors these days are more receptive to suggestions and improvisations from actors. While working in Trance, I felt that   not only respects the actors but gives them creative freedom.
 
