CHENNAI: After 25 years of illegal occupation by 97 encroachers,   of prime government land worth more than Rs 200 crore in Velachery is all set to be reclaimed for public use. The   on Wednesday directed the government to remove the encroachments immediately and hand over the property to   to be used for Mass Rapid Transit System (MRTS).

 
  
  
 Treating the violations as land grab and not mere encroachments, Justice S   ordered restoration of possession to the railways. But it will be a Himalayan task to remove the encroachments, which include modern commercial complexes, fish market, restaurants and a mosque.
 
 It all started in 1992, when Tamil Nadu issued a government order (GO) with a proposal to allot one cent each to 97 people who were in possession of Survey no.333 in Velachery village, Mambalam-Guindy taluk either free of cost or after the collection of a land value based on the merit of each case, and after changing the classification of the land from ‘meikkal poromboke’ (grazing land) to ‘grama natham’ (residential land). But in 1997, a tahsildar issued ‘pattas’ for the land in favour of 312 people, instead of the 97 mentioned in the GO. As the tahsildar had no powers to issue such ‘pattas’, the collector dismissed him from service and cancelled his the pattas he issued, which was also upheld by the Madras high court.
 
 Subsequently, as Southern Railway requisitioned the land for the MRTS project, the government on December 29, 2003, passed an order cancelling the 1992 GO and allotted the property to railways. Though the allotment to the 1992 GO was just a proposal and no actual allotment had happened, the 97 took ownership of the land and challenged the government’s move in high court. On June 30, 2004, the court passed an interim order staying eviction of the encroachers. For the next 13 years the case was in cold storage and the illegal occupiers indiscriminately encroached upon the land building commercial complexes, residences and markets, said railway counsel P T Ramkumar.
 
 Finally, in 2017, the case was taken up for hearing by Justice Vaidhyanathan who ordered an inspection of the entire area by a team led by the collector. The inspection revealed that there were 176 encroachments including, 111 commercial buildings, 59 residential-cum-commercial structures, a mosque, and three under construction buildings.
 
 This apart, the report also revealed that some of the lands were sold to third parties and such sale was duly registered in the sub-registrar’s office concerned.
 
 Noting that such incidents are unfortunate, when the government has allotted the land to railways, Justice Vaidyanathan said, “It is for the inspector general of registration to ascertain as to how many properties have been sold with the connivance of the office of the sub-registrar. When the properties have not been allotted to the petitioners, if any sale had taken place, then departmental action has to be initiated against the concerned sub-registrar. That apart, it is not a bar to also initiate criminal action against the sellers and buyers and bring the issue to a logical conclusion.” 
 
