MADURAI/CHENNAI: On a day when the   government presented the state budget, dissident leader   launched his party, Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK). At a gala event in Melur in rural Madurai on Thursday, Dhinakaran unfurled the party flag, one that closely resembled that of the ruling AIADMK, with bands of red, white and black with former chief minister J Jayalalithaa’s image in the centre.

  The launch came in the wake of the Delhi high court directing the election commission to hear his plea for a common symbol, preferably a ‘pressure cooker,’ and a suitable party name of his choice.
 
 
 Dhinakaran said he got the blessings of his aunt, V K Sasikala, for launching an outfit of own. “It will function in the name of Amma. Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam will govern the state soon,” he said.
 
 
 
 Dhinakaran chose the same venue, where he held his public rally in August. It was dominated by banners and huge cutouts of Sasikala. Flanked by 21 MLAs, including the disqualified 18 legislators, Dhinakaran said his outfit would contest the civic poll, assembly and Parliament elections with the pressure cooker symbol until he retrieved the two-leaves symbol from the “traitors.”  , who was expelled from AIADMK by Jayalalithaa in August 2016, was the lone MP present at the event.
 
 
 Without taking names of chief minister Palaniswami and deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam, Dhinakaran said his “1.5 crore” loyal cadres felt the need for a party name and symbol. “We could function as AIADMK Amma faction until the election commission offered the name (AIADMK) and two-leaf symbol to   (AIADMK presidium chairman) and company,” he said, citing the case won by EPS-OPS group. Earlier, speakers hit out at the duo for turning traitors against the Sasikala clan that was responsible for their meteoric rise in the party.
 
 
 Dhinakaran took pride in his R K Nagar bypoll victory and said his victory reflected the sentiments of the people of Tamil Nadu. “DMK forfeited its deposit and AIADMK escaped by a whisker,” he said. The leader waded through a sea of supporters before entering the venue designed like  , where he was given a rousing welcome. Other than the 18 disqualified MLAs, other legislators, who were present included, E Rathinasabapathy (Aranthangi), V T Kalaiselvan (Virudhachalam) and A Prabhu (Kallakurichi). The Madras high court is yet to decide on the cases, challenging the disqualification of 18 MLAs (TTV supporters) and 11 MLAs, including O Panneerselvam, who voted against Edappadi K Palaniswami government in February last year.
 
