PAHRAWAR (ROHTAK): During its 10 years in power, Bhupinder Singh   government gave licences to   developers for close to 23,000 acres across the state. While the Supreme Court set aside the acquisition of a large chunk in Gurgaon to private builders, the present BJP government, led by CM Manohar Lal Khattar, recently ordered CBI probe into cases of land acquisition during ex-CM Hooda’s rule in Uddar Gagan of Rohtak and Nangal, Aterna and Sersa of Sonipat. There are, however, hundreds of other cases where farmers haven’t gotten over the feeling of having been cheated even after more than a decade they were tricked into selling their land.

 While strongman from Rohtak, Hooda, maybe revered by some in his citadel as champion of farmers’ cause, people of Pahrawar village are not ready to forgive him. Pahrawar is one of the six villages whose land was bought by private builders using the same infamous route of section 4 and section 6 of the Land Acquisition Act, 1894. It is estimated that through this dubious way it made available more than 8,000 acres to private builders.
 
 
 In 2005, the state government issued a notification under section 4 of the Act announcing the Haryana Urban Development Authority (Huda) was going to acquire hundreds of the acres of Pahrawar land for development. As the compensation at that time was decided based on circle rate and not the market value, it scare the farmers here that they were going to get little for their land from government.
 
  Quietly moved in the middlemen who, working for private builders, bought land from farmers for little more than peanuts. After that was done, the government issued notification 6 of the Act, abandoning the acquisition process and freeing the land for builders to develop and sale at high rates.
 
 Over 13 years after the scare and the loss, TOI revisited the Pahrawar village having over 3,500 population. The village has Dulhera minor branch water nourishing its sprawling fields in the vicinity of Rohtak district headquarters.
 
 Sharing his ordeal, Dinesh Kumar, 45, one of the farmers whose one of the two acres were grabbed by private builders is easily lost in the tragic memories with mere mention of land acquisition words. “Farming community that is mostly illiterate, credulous but hardworking and innocent. It tills its land to earn his livelihood,” he starts off.
 
 He used to take two bumper crops (sugarcane and wheat) in a year till then. He is now under debt of nearly Rs 5 lakhs. Reason enough for him to not to come to terms with the reality of losing land.
 
 Living in ramshackle tworoom house tucked inside a dirty lane, the bearded farmer says that when they were served notice that their land would be acquired they were shocked. “Then, in absence of any transparent guidelines and no visits by government officers, rumours started doing rounds that the price a farmer would get per acre would not be more than 2.85 lakh,” says Dinesh. He has two sons and a daughter of marriageable age.
 
 Smelling an opportunity, former sapranch of a nearby village Mahender Singh came to here and promised to get them better prices by secretly striking their deal with private builders. He was accompanied by battery of suited-booted companions. The ex-sarpanch initially offered Rs 4 lakh per acre and tried to coax many farmers.
 
 Some of farmers, especially those who needed money for wedding of their children or repay debts, gave. However, many of them resisted and demanded more.
 
 After reluctance of farmers, a native of Garhi village took up the role of middleman, says Dinesh. He used to come at night in cars and carrying lots of cash and promised farmers that they would be given partnership in a joint venture, he adds.
 
 “We were told that private builders would do   and the output value would be shared besides giving them employment,” he added.
 
 He said that since their efforts to reach out to local government office and then chief minister’s office did not bring any clarity, most of the farmers were trapped. Rs 12 lakh was the maximum some of them managed to get.
 
 The beleaguered farmer claims that he put his thumb impression at the poorly lit chaupal around 10pm one night. Later, they found out that they had given thumb impression on power of attorney. These contracts were later registered elsewhere.
 
 There were no more talks of joint ventures or collaborative farming after they put their thumb impression. Developers cut the land into piece and started selling plots.
 
 Another local farmer, Sadhu Ram, 57, has a similar story to tell. He also lost one acre land during the alleged land scam and now is under a debt of more than Rs 10 lakh. “I got 12.85 lakh for one acre that time. It’s was worth much more and is today worth crores of rupees. They are rich and I am under penury," he says pointing at a stone marking the plot numbers.
 
