THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: BJP state president Kummanam   will be the new governor of  . The order appointing Rajasekharan as replacement to Nirbhay Sharma, whose tenure will come to an end on May 28, was issued by Rashtrapathi Bhavan late on Friday evening.

 Rajasekharan, an RSS karyavahak, was heading Hindu Aikyavedi when he was appointed president of state BJP unit two years ago. Rajasekharan’s import to BJP was meant to neutralise the two warring factions in the state unit led by V Muraleedharan and P K Krishnadas. Amit Shah’s strategy to try hard-line Hindutva in Kerala to help BJP make electoral gains was another reason for appointing Rajasekharan at the helm.
 
 The sudden move to replace Kummanam is viewed by his critics in the party as expression of unhappiness by the central leadership over his style of functioning.
 
  Though he was active in social and religious spheres, politics was rather new to him. 
 
 Under Rajasekharan’s leadership, the NDA disintegrated with the BJP’s second biggest ally BDJS announcing non-cooperation ahead of the Chengannur bypoll.
 
 
 
 
 Kerala Congress (M), widely believed to be a possible ally of NDA, also moved away and announced support to the UDF in the Chengannur bypoll. Sources said a more pragmatic leader who can handle allies effectively will be Rajasekharan’s replacement.
 
 Rajasekharan, 65, rose to the leadership of Hindu Aikyavedi by organizing the Nilackal protests in 1983. When the Marad killings happened during 2002-03, he was in the forefront of the agitation and was involved in negotiations brokered by the government. In 2016, Rajasekharan contested the assembly polls from Vattiyoorkavu constituency and finished second by winning more votes than the CPM candidate.
 
 Earlier, Congress leader from Kerala, Vakkom Purushothaman had served as   from 2011 to 2014. Congress leaders M M Jacob and K Sankaranarayanan had also occupied gubernatorial roles in the North East. Jacob was the governor of Meghalaya while Sankaranarayanan was the governor of Nagaland.
 
 
