If spelunking or caving is your thing, counting archaic bridges en route your favourite pastime and spotting tertiary rainbows arcing through the sky a long-cherished dream, then this state wouldn’t disappoint you. Known as home to some of the cleanest villages and man-made natural wonders,   has breathtaking scenic beauty coupled with alluring weather. The whole state is luminous green during monsoon which makes it the perfect time to start planning your next adventure trip. Gear up for vistas of pristine lakes, cascading waterfalls and pine forests.

 Our journey to Shillong began from Guwahati which is a 100-km drive. The spectacular views begin right from the Shillong-Guwahati highway, where you can see Bara Pani or Umiam Lake. The lake is a water reservoir that also hosts a lot of water activities. So, even though the wait to reach the destination gets longer, you can make the most of the calm and quiet and soak in the amazing views. In all, the drive through the twists and turns past the mountain forest is a thrilling experience.
 
 
 
 When in Meghalaya one should not lose the opportunity to discover the subtle beauty of the wettest place in India, Cherrapunji, and witness the highest cascading waterfalls, the Seven Sisters Waterfalls and the Nohkalikai Falls, that radiate vibrant colours of the setting sun. These waterfalls in all its glory are a delight for adventure freaks as it sets a great location for camping, trekking and even swimming. Meghalaya also harbours some of the longest and deepest caves in the world. Of all the caves in Meghalaya, the 820-feet-long Mawsmai cave attracts a lot of tourists throughout the year. The limestone stalactites and stalagmites would leave you fascinated.
 
 The next best destination to visit is   - the cleanest village in Asia. Mawlynnong boasts of the famous naturally-grown, mystical Living Root Bridges made of the roots of huge rubber and bamboo tress. These bridges are believed to be more than 500-years-old and are strong enough to carry 40-50 people at a time. Also worth visiting is the town of Dawki, located about 2 km away from Mawlynnong, for its greenish-blue river Umgot that connects India and Bangladesh and witnesses the annual boat race held during spring. The enchanting surroundings, silver streams, and crystal-clear deep water makes it an excellent picnic spot. Activities like scuba diving, cliff jumping, fishing,snorkelling, rafting, zip lining can be experienced depending on the season.
 
 
 
 For food, you can eat your way in small, cozy cafes and restaurants like Café Shillong, Royal Heritage Tripura Castle and Café Shillong Heritage. The ambience of these restaurants is similar to a typical British house designed with wooden fittings, elegant lampshades and a snug fireplace that makes for an exemplary setting to indulge in delicious momos, pork roast and spare ribs paired with a glass of Hennessey. You cannot afford to miss Jadoh, a popular Khasi delicacy especially from one of the local authentic pit stops while on the way to explore Meghalaya’s other vivid destinations. For your dessert carvings, head to some of Shillong’s blissful bakeries such as Bread Café, Dylan’s Café offering the best-looking pastries, shakes and waffles.
 
 Shillong is also a mecca of musicians and has earned itself the ‘Rock Capital’ tag. It is home to famous artists, like Lou Majaw, a legend in the North East.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
