Thiruvananthapuram: As part of popularising   among international tourists, the government has decided to allow serving the beverage in luxury cruises and houseboats.

 An in-principle decision has been taken by the government and an order has been issued (accessed by TOI) on December 15. The decision has been taken on the basis of the recommendation of excise commissioner, following representations from cruise boat industry.
 
 The government would amend abkari shop disposal rules to legalise serving toddy in luxury cruises and houseboats of standards set by the tourism department.
 
 The department classifies boats into gold star, silver star and green palm categories, based on standard of service, safety and consideration for environment. The government has also instructed excise commissioner to make recommendations for changes to be made in the norms and submit at the earliest.
 
 Toddy comes in the category of mild liquor, in which maximum ethanol content has been estimated as 8.1%. The government considers the toddy industry as a traditional sector, depended by 40,000 to 50,000 people for livelihood.
 
 The decision was welcomed by CITU, one of the prominent trade unions with a strong foothold in the toddy sector. “The industry is facing a major crisis and many of the workers are jobless. Even the Supreme Court had observed that toddy should not be included in the category of liquor,” CITU state general secretary Elamaram Kareem said.
 
 To implement the decision, the government will have to evolve a mechanism to supply pure toddy. At present, toddy workers directly supply daily produce to toddy shops. “At present, quality assurance is done through random raids at shops by excise officials or examining samples via mobile testing laboratories,” pointed out sources. Shelf life of toddy is only a maximum of 48 hours.
 
 Industry players, though welcomed the step, said the government should allow at least luxury cruises that caters to foreign tourists and corporate houses to serve hard liquor. “We receive a lot of inquiries from foreign tour operators and corporate houses in this regard,” said Nishyjith K John, Neo Classic Cruise and Tours.
 
 
