Nagpur: ‘No to GM (genetically modified) seed’ was theme of the talks held on the first day of Beejotsav exhibition-cum-sale. A lengthy discussion on the topic was led by several progressive farmers and researchers. The three-day organic fair at Mure Memorial lawn was inaugurated on Friday morning.

 “Consumers should demand organic output from the farmers and a connect should be facilitated between both sides,” said progressive farmer Vasant Futane, “In order to oppose GM, an organized meet and protest are the need of the hour.”
 
 Farmer and agriculture researcher Amitabh Pawde, speaking of seed and food democracy, said Mosanto was trying to destroy his indigenous seed. There was a breed of scientists that was sold out to protect the commercial interests of foreign companies, he charged.
 
 He also referred to an article on GM seeds by noted agri-scientist MS Swaminathan that spoke of how there was a need for efficient regulatory mechanism for GM in India. Europe had banned GM on the grounds of health and environmental safety. “Fourteen rounds of chemical spraying are required for GM crops, which induces more spending,” he said, adding that an Isotopic test was required, wherein a chemical was tested on the plant before allowing it to be sprayed on fields.
 
 Pawde also focused on the chemical glyphosate, a component of Bt3, which is harmful to human health. “it’s traces were found in pregnant women and resulted in abortion,” he said.
 
 Economist Shriniwas Khandewale said Bt was once termed as progress. “Bt in Europe and America was encouraged to promote globalization. When it was introduced, it was said it would increase farmer’s yields and generate more production. Yet, even today, no farmer’s income had increased, or issues of hunger and starvation solved due to Bt. Even today, seeds without certificate come to India from other countries,” he said.
 
 Whether the government promotes public health or not, it should not allow poisonous substances in the market. In pre-globalization days, farmers were poor but farmer’s suicide was unheard of, Khandewale said. He said seeds in the market bore English names and directions for use on them were also written in English, making farmers depend on shopkeeper, who recommend companies that offer more commission.
 
 Director of Mure Memorial Hospital Vilas Shende extended his support to the cause.
 
 
