Long before the family sagas and atte-sose dramas took over television, he had already captured an audience with his gripping and sensible stories. Having carved a niche for himself in soaps like Mayamruga, Manvanthara, Muktha, Muktha Muktha and Mahaparva,   (TNS) is set to be back on   after a break of five years, with  . In the interim, TNS played jury on Drama Juniors and helmed a film. The original czar of television indulges in a freewheeling chat with us.

  TNS says, “I didn’t realise that it’s been five years since I last helmed a daily soap. Five years have passed by so quickly. But my audience has been reminding me of my absence from television with constant queries. Wherever I go, they ask, ‘Sir, matte yavaga serial direct madtira? Matte Mayamruga, Manvathara ondu serial maadi’.”
 
  On the thoughts behind making Magalu Janaki, his upcoming daily soap that will go on air in June, TN Seetharam adds, “It set me thinking and I thought that if they indeed want me back, why not script something what they’d like to see.” The serial, he elaborates, is about an innocent girl called Janaki and her various encounters with situations that go on to build her inner strength. Strong women are a typical trait of all his television outings and on asking the director acknowledges that he can never show them in poor light. “That’s because I’ve grown up surrounded by strong women, such as my mother and my elder sister, who raised me like a second mother. She passed away and that left a deep impact on me. Our household had a lot of women with grit, and during my growing-up years, I realised that women almost never shed tears, but deep within, they weep silently. That set me thinking. Their resilience and inner strength is something I have much respect for and it is this observation that I portray in my work,” he tells us. 
 
  No TNS serial is complete without the director himself making an appearance in his trademark lawyer’s role. A lawyer by profession in real life, too, TNS is popularly known as CSP — an iconic lawyer character from one of his television outings. “Even if I bow out citing that I’ll stay behind the camera, people have now come to expect to see me as a lawyer in every serial. It’s become a must-have. So, I complied and you will see me playing a lawyer in Magalu Janaki as well” he states. 
 
  The last time TNS helmed a daily soap, TRP wars had not gained the epic proportions it has today, and the scenario wasn’t dominated by the kind of drama we have today. 
 
  “In fact, when I did Mayamruga, it was the only soap on Doordarshan. Today, I will be competing with about 50-odd serials. Yes, TRPs weren’t much of a deal back then and I have to keep that in mind even if I am not the sort to play to the gallery. But I am aware that I have my own audience that believes in my brand of serials and that is an uplifting thought,” observes TNS. 
 
  But then again, the directors add that he will not take their loyalty for granted. “I can’t make slow-paced serials like we had back in the day. Today’s generation is fast-paced, so the speed of the content has to match up. Audiences are also used to multiple and colourful visuals, and that is something that I have to also bear in mind. The channel authorities have also given their inputs and I shall incorporate these guidelines, coupled with my sensibility, and take this forward. Of course, I haven’t figured out a formula, but I’ll ensure that I write a story that people will like, because emotions are the same for us all,” says TNS.
 
 
