NEW DELHI: In the fourth such incident in less than  , a man was   at   barely a few metres away from the   on Saturday night. The case was registered on Sunday. The accused fled with the man’s wallet and  .

 At 10pm, 25-year-old Deepak Agarwal was returning from Noida sector-16 on a motorcycle, when he was stopped by three men, who were also on a motorcycle. “They started driving along and one of them asked me the way for Akshardham. I told them the directions through hand signals but one of them asked me to stop. When I refused, he snatched the keys of my motorcycle, forcing me to stop,” Agarwal said.
 
 As the men came towards him, Agarwal pretended to call police. The accused, however, snatched his phone and threw it on the road. In his complaint, Agarwal said that two of the accused then pulled out pistols and asked him to hand over his wallet.
 
 “I shouted for help. Some other commuters noticed the incident but did not stop to help,” he said. One of the men then held Agarwal while the other took his wallet which had some cash, documents and ATM cards. The accused then fled, taking Agarwal’s bike keys as well.
 
 Agarwal said that a security guard, who was sitting in a cabin on the other side of the road, also did not come out to help. “As I went to him, he waved me to go away,” he said. 
 
 Agarwal also questioned the police’s role, saying that though he called police at 10.13pm, no one came till 11pm. Agarwal then took his motorcycle to Maharani Bagh by getting it pulled by an autorickshaw.
 
 A case was registered on Sunday at Sunlight Colony police station.
 
 This is the   of a gunpoint robbery on DND Flyway in less than a week. On February 7, three people were robbed in a similar fashion by a gang of four men, who were on a motorcycle.
 
 DCP (southeast) Chinmoy Biswal said that they have formed multiple teams, which are working in coordination with the police staff from east district.
 
 The CCTV footage from the area is also being scanned to ascertain the identity of the accused and the registration number of the motorcycle used by the accused.
 
 
