BHUBANESWAR: Child welfare committee ( ),   district, has issued a directive to block education officers (BEOs) of Khurda district to implement government guidelines of 2014 to make schools a safe zone for children.

 
 The state government had framed guidelines on August 23, 2014, for ensuring a child safe environment in institutions where children are housed or study. It had asked the institutions to obey the order and take necessary measures to implement the guidelines within two months. "Unfortunately, several schools in Khurda district including capital city have not taken any measures in this regard," said CWC member Benudhar Senapati.
 
 According to the guidelines, all institutions need to develop and implement a Child Protection Protocol (CPP). Main objective of the   is to provide a safe and secure environment for all children residing in the institution. The protocol says schools should ensure that all staff, children and their parents or guardians are aware of the child protection issues. The staff should sign an agreement by saying that she or he will never abuse (mentally or physically) a child. 
 
 Head of the institution like headmaster or principal will be designated as the child protection officer for the institution. Schools should ensure that the institution and its peripheral facilities are safe for the child. School authority must verify antecedents of all the staff or service providers before appointing or allowing them access the institution. 
 
 The guideline advised to create a reporting mechanism for children facing abuse. Schools will display names and telephone numbers of CWC members, Childline and police for easy access of children in distress. School staff, teachers will be made aware of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (POCSO Act).
 
 A senior officer of the school and mass education department said his department will look into the matter seriously. "We will hold a review meeting regarding this and discuss about implementation of the guideline issued to schools in 2014," he added. 
 
