Through the course of Padmaavat’s journey to theatres, the industry, audience, trade and social influencers have been voicing their support for the   film. Some of the most influential names coming out to support the magnum opus include Sri Sri Ravi Shankar (spiritual leader, humanitarian and an ambassador of peace), Amish Tripathi (author) and Dr Ved Pratap Vaidik (Founder of Press Trust of India’s Bhasha and Chairman of Bhartiya Bhasha Sammelan).

 After watching the movie, which stars  , Ranveer Singh and  , Amish said, “This film celebrates Rajput bravery and honours Rani Padmavati. Moreover, it also says positive things about our culture.” Dr Vaidik pointed out, “After clearance from the   (CBFC) and the  , the whole argument about Padmaavat is over. This is the other side of Freedom of Speech. The whole world believes in the existence of God, but there are a few atheists, who don’t, and they have complete freedom to do so. If you don’t believe in something, you must have a reason. The Rajput Karni Sena is irrationally protesting against the film. How can they protest without watching it? I request the protesters to choose a more non-violent, disciplined way of protesting.”
 
 Sri Sri Ravi Shankar, who watched Padmaavat at a special screening along with Bhansali at his ashram in Bengaluru recently, was all praises for the film. He didn’t find anything objectionable in it and said, “The movie is about Rajput honour and is a beautiful tribute to Rani Padmavati. I request people to go watch the movie, it will make you proud.” Last week, the filmmaker also held a screening for a select group of women, who voiced their support for the film, which has been produced by Viacom18 Motion Pictures and Bhansali Productions. Madhavi Bhuta, National Executive, BJP Mahila Morcha, said, “Whoever is opposing the film must know that we are doing injustice to the next generation. I want to tell every Rajput that this is your pride and you must carry it forward to the next generation. I urge people to watch the film and understand the story and the way it has been portrayed. Rajputs are the heroes in the film. Everything has been portrayed beautifully.”
 
 Lawyer Abha Singh, who also belongs to the Rajput community, said, “I have seen the film and I didn’t find anything objectionable in it. They have glorified Rajput honour and valour. The movie doesn’t hurt anyone’s sentiments. On the contrary, it portrays the sacrifice made by the Rajputs for their community. They were brave, which has been clearly showcased in the film. I’m a Rajput woman and I’m proud of this film. They have nowhere shown any woman being demeaned or disrespected. I am surprised that some people have wrong notions about the film. In fact, it shows how a Rajput was brave enough to sacrifice his head for his honour."
 Bhansali’s latest visual extravaganza, which releases on January 25, is inspired by the epic poem, Padmavat, written by Malik Muhammad Jayasi, which is a work of fiction. It’s an ode to a glorious era and to Rajput honour and valour. 
 
 
  
 
