New Delhi: In a few months’ time, the chemicals trade would have disappeared from  . Businessmen dealing in chemicals are in a big hurry to shift to the integrated chemical market developed by Delhi Development Authority in Narela. After Delhi high court gave the traders four months to move out from the Walled City on March 6, the Chemical Merchants’ Association met DDA officials on Friday to begin the process of relocating to the new complex.

 There are around a thousand traders dealing with chemicals in Old Delhi. Of them, 640 have been allotted 50-square metre plots at Narela. DDA has finalised its standard drawings for the integrated chemical market and the court has directed the traders to obtain these drawings to take forward the process of constructing shops and storage.
 
 “While applying for building sanction and submitting our application online, along with the drawings, we have to submit allotment/ownership letter, a certificate from the architect and a no-objection certificate from the explosives department,” said Pradeep Gupta, president, Chemical Merchants’ Association.
 
 The court has instructed DDA to process the applications within a month of submission of any application. “In the wake of the deadlines set by the court, we will immediately apply for sanctioning of building plans and accordingly begin construction work,” stated a trader.
 
 Many of those holding allotment certificates have already received the NOC from the explosives department. The rest are expected to get theirs soon. What they now require are the drawinga from DDA and certificates from their architects for their stipulated single-storey structures. 
 
 An association official said that around 80 more traders are likely to get plot allotments soon. The merchant body is, however, worried about those who do not yet have a plot at the complex, which has space for over 1,000 units. “We are trying to find a solution for them. If the need arises, we will approach the court on their behalf,” said Gupta.
 
 DDA will cooperate with the traders in the timely clearance of their applications and provision of the required documentation, assured an official. The agency will also re-carpet the roads at the Narela complex. “They were laid a decade ago, and have become damaged,” the official said. An official of North Delhi Municipal Corporation added that the civic body would offer all services required in the areas after the chemical business shifts to Narela.
 
 
