NEW DELHI/CHENNAI: A day after expressing no objection to Tamil Nadu’s demand for   as recommended by the Cauvery water disputes tribunal, the Union government on Thursday submitted a modified draft scheme, naming the mechanism, Cauvery Water Management Authority.

 Law minister C Ve Shanmugam said the state government strongly opposed the move in the court and hoped that the state’s plea would be considered in the final verdict expected on Friday or latest by next week. The   reserved its order on finalisation of the draft Cauvery management scheme.
 
 A bench of Chief Justice Dipak Misra and Justices A M Khanwilkar and D Y   made it clear that it would "see that the draft scheme has to be in consonance with its judgement only."
 
 The bench then said that it may pass the order on the Cauvery Management scheme either on Friday on May 22 or 23 after taking note of the suggestions of all the riparian states of Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Kerala and Puducherry.
 
 Karnataka, which is facing political tug of war between BJP and Congress-JD (S) over government formation, had on Wednesday made a failed bid to temporarily stall the finalisation of draft Cauvery management scheme.
 
 On Thursday, however, the state gave some suggestions, while maintaining that the tribunal had provided for minimum water to be allowed to remain in the reservoir on behalf of Tamil Nadu and Karnataka to maintain a steady flow but the draft scheme does not deal with this aspect.
 
 Tamil Nadu government opposed the suggestion of Karnataka, saying "this was a clear attempt to seek review of the February 16 judgment".
 
 Attorney General K K Venugopal, representing the Centre, informed the court that it has modified certain provisions of the draft scheme which had authorised the union government to issue directions "from time to time" on Cauvery water distribution between the four states.
 
 Soon after attorney general KK Venugopal presented the scheme before the court, Shanmuguam expressed displeasure over the Centre’s Authority plan after it said it had no objections to a board. “Other than the nomenclature, the Centre acceded to our remaining demands, including doing away with significant clauses on the powers vested with it. Now, only the authority and not the Centre will have a final say if any of the states did not cooperate in implementing the decision/direction of the tribunal,” the minister told TOI.
 
 Another significant change is that the authority shall comply with the directions only with respect to “composition, establishment and administration” that the Centre may provide time to time.
 
 With inputs from agencies
 
 EOM
 
 
