CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and Haryana high court has made it clear that a PhD degree holder from technical institutions, affiliated to the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE), cannot claim posts for which PhD under the   ( ) regulations had been prescribed for selection.

  passed these orders while upholding the decision of the   (HPSC) that had refused to give appointment to a person, who had done his PhD from the National Institute of Technology (NIT),  , on the post of assistant professor (physics) for college cadre in the state. The essential qualifications prescribed by the HPSC was possession of PhD degree in concerned subject as per the UGC (Minimum Standards and Procedure for award of PhD degree) Regulations, 2009. Only those having PhD as per these regulations, were also exempted from qualifying NET examination.
 
 Justice Rajiv Narain Raina passed these orders while dismissing a plea filed by Randhir Singh, a resident of Kurukshetra, against HPSC decision denying appointment to him. “The UGC has got no connection with AICTE and institutes falling within their respective domains. Hence, the selection process has to be confined strictly to the advertised qualifications. Therefore, not only passing of NET becomes an essential component of the criteria of selection but also the Ph D degree has to be earned on the touchstone of the UGC Regulations of 2009 which is a condition precedent specifically incorporated in the advertisement,” observed Justice Raina in his recent orders.
 
 However, “Not to show the petitioner down”, Justice Raina clarified, “the PhD degree held by the petitioner is not a worthless qualification. It may have its value in recruitment to technical institutes regulated by the AICTE Act when such a degree is demanded”.
 
 Another reason, the HC hold for dismissing the plea was that in this case petitioner had claimed that he was interviewed by the HPSC but on verification of documents, the commission found that the PhD degree earned by the petitioner is from the NIT, Kurukshetra, which falls within the purview of the provisions of AICTE Act, 1987. The NITs have been formed across India to be run by the Union ministry of human resources development. UGC, New Delhi and the NITs have nothing to do with each other. For this reason, the petitioner was offered appointment and his candidature was cancelled.
 
 Counsel for the petitioner, however, referred to July 11, 2016 notification issued by the UGC through which it amended the 2009 regulations and included all candidates registered for PhD course in any institutions prior to 2009. The judge dismissed this plea as well on the grounds that the notification came on July 11, 2016, while the HPSC had initiated the present selection process on May 11, 2016.
 
 
