BENGALURU: The government-run City Central Library located at the BDA complex in   II Stage is struggling to pay its monthly rent. Fearing that the facility may shut down, library users have written to the BDA commissioner, urging him to waive off the rent.

 The 20-year-old library houses more than 52,000 books and is frequented by at least 250-300 people a day. The department of library which runs the facility has no financial source other than the library cess collected by BBMP.
 
 The library had not paid the monthly rent, now Rs 23,504, inclusive of taxes, for years. According to library officials, Rs 9.58 lakh was paid to the BDA in March 2017 towards rent arrears. As of January 2018, the arrears stand at about Rs 2 lakh. The BDA levies interest on unpaid rent, only making it much more difficult for the fund-starved library to pay up.
 
  
 On May 5, 2017, the library authorities wrote to the BDA commissioner seeking waiver of rent as it is providing free reading facility for the general public. They also pointed out that the library cess paid by BBMP is their only source of revenue. A copy of the letter is with TOI.
 
 The authorities are bracing for the impending annual hike in rent from April 2018. “The BDA hikes the rent by 20% every year. We used to pay Rs 15,000 in 2010. It touched 27,000 in 2017. We also pay as much as 18% interest for delayed payment,” said Poornima C S, deputy director, City Central Library, south zone. 
 
 However, the BDA has been continuing to slap notices on the library, asking it to clear the arrears. Members of the Consumer Care Society, a consumer rights’ orgaization functioning in Banashankari II Stage, wrote to the BDA commissioner in November 2017 in this regard.
 
 “Libraries serve an important role in the development of the community through dissemination of knowledge. This is the only public library catering to the residents of Banashankari II Stage,   and TR Nagar. We request the BDA to allot this space to the library free of cost. If not, it might shut down,” said V Gopal Ratnam, secretary of Consumer Care Society.
 
 The library gets two copies each of 18 weekly, 12 fortnightly and 70 monthly magazines and 27 daily newspapers. It is also facing a space crunch and needs additional room to accommodate books and readers.
 
 
 
 
 Narayan Raichur, a retired   employee and a quiz master, is a regular at the library. “I frequent the library to refer to books while preparing for quiz shows. It is located in a place that’s comfortable for many book lovers. It has a bus stop close by, parking facility in the BDA complex and proper ventilation. The government must make sure the library doesn’t shut down,” he said.
 
 Youngsters preparing for competitive exams are among those who frequent the place. “The silence here makes it a perfect place to study. Books required to prepare for competitive exams too are available here. I spend 3-4 hours every morning in the library,” said Yatheesh B, an engineering graduate from Padmanabhanagar, who is currently preparing for IAS prelims.
 
 
 
 
 BDA commissioner Rakesh Singh said he was aware of the issue. “It’s one of the best libraries. I have visited it myself. We will not hike the rent. We will support the library and not come in the way of its functioning,” he asserted.
 
 
  
 
 
