MEERUT: A Muslim youth and his two brothers were beaten up by members of the   and   on Saturday at a Baghpat court complex when the man was to get married to a Hindu girl from Punjab. Every time a case of ‘love jihad’ comes up, what leaves locals and police puzzled is how Hindu organisations get to know about it even before police. The secret may be out now.
 
  and   members told TOI that they depend on a large and intricate mesh of informers, from bus drivers to waiters, advocates, farmers and sometimes even labourers to alert them on inter-faith affairs. They said each year thousands of people become a part of their organisation, but since not everybody can be given a designation, they are given the role of informers.
  
  
 “Not everyone can come to the front and protest, but nobody shies away from providing information. This is why we have a network of people who are our members and who work silently on the ground. These are mainly farmers, labourers and even advocates, who inform us about inter-faith marriages or relationships,” said Balraj Dungar, West UP convenor, Bajrang Dal.
  
 He may have a point. Last year in April a couple in Meerut were dragged out of a room in a crowded Shastri Nagar gully and paraded through the streets. The boy later said he was shocked how so many people got to know of his discreet meeting with the girl he claimed to be in love with.
  
  
 Information about the inter-faith couple in Baghpat, too, reached right-wing leaders on Saturday through one such informer. Vicky Chaudhary, Baghpat city president of VHP said, “I cannot disclose who gave us this tip-off, but we got the information from somebody within the organisation who had in turn received this information from a local source.” He further said that paan and cigarette shops were the most helpful source among all.
  
 But to get inputs on a majority of   cases, that too before police most of the time, the organisations have a large number of sources on the ground.
  
 “From November to December 2017, an enrolment drive was conducted in Shamli. At least 8,000 people joined the organization, but since not all of them can be given a designation, some have been given the role of informers. In fact, we have WhatsApp groups in place which have all these people. I closely monitor all of them and if any case of love jihad comes to the fore, I inform the people concerned so that we reach the spot to check the matter and seek police intervention,” said Vivek Premi, Bajrang Dal head for Muzaffarnagar, Baghpat and Sardhana and also the student head of Meerut zone. Premi added that their sources were mainly waiters, kitchen staff of hotels (where couple go for dates), students and bus drivers, among others.
