NEW DELHI: A   ad hoc teacher was   for   a first-year student. Police sources said a complaint against him was registered on January 31 at Maurice Nagar police station by the student, who is a  . 

 In her complaint, the student of Daulat Ram College had told the police that an assistant professor named Abhay Kumar had been stalking her for the past few months. When she had rebuffed him, he had allegedly threatened to fail her in the internal exams. The girl had also said that Kumar used to send her lewd messages on WhatsApp. 
 
 On Monday, the students staged a protest after Kumar showed up in class at 8.30am. “He even went to the staffroom, had his coffee with all the other teachers like nothing had happened. On Saturday too, there was a film festival, which he attended with no sign of remorse,” alleged a first-year classmate of the complainant.
 
 “How can he even think of coming to college and conducting classes when such a grave allegation has been levelled against him? We demanded that he be arrested. It was only after we raised objections that the police came and arrested him,” said the college students’ union vice-president Nidhi Upadhyay. 
 
 Principal Savita Roy had told TOI on Sunday that she learnt about the incident only through media reports, and that no action could be taken as no complaint had been made to her. 
 
 But students’ union proctor Jyoti Choudhary alleged that the union had taken the complaint to Roy on January 29 itself, but she didn’t act. The classmates of the complainant also backed Choudhary on this. In fact, many other students also alleged that Kumar had done this before with others without facing any consequences. The complainant’s father also levelled the same accusation against Roy. 
 
 Principal Roy told the protesting girls in the morning that Kumar had handed his resignation that morning and that he was out of Daulat Ram. 
 
 But Choudhary said, “He submitted his resignation out of his own accord. The principal never took any action against him.” 
 
 Roy also told her students that if this happens again, they must give a written complaint to the college. On being asked to make sure that the   doesn’t go to any other college, Roy said, “ I can take responsibility of Daulat Ram, but I cannot ensure anything in any other college.”
 
 Police were scanning Kumar’s cellphone and college CCTV feed. 
 
 
