LUCKNOW: Lucknow   declared BEd results of   after the high court order on Friday.

 
  had withheld the BEd results of 120 students of first and third semesters of   for the past one month, alleging that the college had violated the admissions norms.
 
 “Following HC order, LU has allowed BEd students of IT College to appear in second and fourth semester examinations. The university has opened the online window for IT College students to fill up the examination forms. No late fee would be charged from students,” said LU spokesperson  . The university has directed IT College to complete the process as per the high court order, he added. In December, LU had stopped these IT College students from appearing in BEd examinations after detecting irregularities in the admission process. The university had alleged that the college had misled it for 10 years regarding the admission process.
 
 IT College had cited a high court order which stated that being a minority institution, it had a special provision for BEd admissions. The college also claimed that it was exempted from admitting students through BEd state entrance test. However, when LU asked to submit proof, the college was not able to legally establish that its admissions were bonafide, and failed to provide the HC order’s copy.
 
 The university officials alleged that not only did the college admit students on 50% seats that had to be filled through BEd state entrance examination, it also failed to take approval from the university for the remaining 50% seats allotted to minority institutions.
 
 When LU barred IT College’s BEd students from taking first and third semester exams, IT College moved the high court. The court directed LU to allow students to appear in the exams as an interim relief while the hearing was on. “We have informed students that now the examination form is available. The first BEd examination which was missed by them will be conducted by the university when the ongoing BEd examinations are over,” said IT College principal Vinita Prakash.
 
