CHANDIGARH: Comptroller Auditor General ( ) report has exposed the truth behind government’s claims of industrial investments in Haryana. According to it, as many as 1,800 plots are lying vacant in the industrial estates of   State Industrial and Infrastructure Corporation Limited ( ). 

 CAG had submitted the report to Haryana assembly during the budget session which concluded last week.
 
 The report said the unsold inventory of industrial plots had blocked the revenue worth over Rs 4,000 crore. The CAG report also highlighted how the change of guard and change of industrial policy, added with slowdown of economy, had an impact on industrialization, which led to negative growth of inventory in the state.
 
 CAG slammed HSIIDC for failing to recover Rs 1,871 crore from occupants and owners of industrial plots. The report also highlighted how the number of allottees surrendering industrial plots had increased.
 
 According to the report, 281 industrial plots were allotted in 2012, out of which 20 allottees had surrendered their plots and 19 allotments were resumed. In 2016-17, 150 out of 400 allottees had surrendered their plots while 11 plots were resumed by the authorities.
 
 When contacted, HSIIDC officials said the poor performance due to slowdown added by certain local issues. “Allotments in 2015-16 could not be done due to change in the estate management procedure ( ). The inventory remained unallotted due to increased rates. Similar was the case with surrendering of industrial plots,” HSIIDC officials had told CAG.
 
 When contacted,   spokesperson and former chief parliamentary secretary   termed the poor industrial growth to deteriorating law and order situation and lack of agenda in Haryana. “This government could only resort to jumlebaazi. Does this report give any reflection of Rs 5 lakh crore investment in Haryana,” said Maan.
 
 INLD’s trader cell chief   also flayed the negative industrial growth in the state as pointed out by the CAG report. “Given the rigidness of HSIIDC and the stand taken by the state government, the situation has become from bad to worse for entrepreneurs. The industry is forced to migrate to other states now,” he said.
 
 
