NEW DELHI:   started its online   on Friday for the 2018-19  . With over 10 new postgraduate, certificate and diploma courses being offered, students can register till March 7 and entrance exams for masters and research courses will start from April 8. The sessions will begin from August 1. 

 The university also launched a PhD portal through which scholars and their supervisors can keep a track of the progress of the students’ thesis.
 
 Informing that the admissions start early this year, Jamia media coordinator Saima Saeed said, “It is our attempt to attract the most talented students at the earliest.”
 
 Explaining the new courses at Jamia that got approval from the university’s academic council (AC) recently, Saeed said that the focus is on tourism and there are four new courses on the subject. These include certificate programmes in ticketing and air fare construction; tour guiding and leadership; escorting and tour management; and medical and wellness tourism. 
 
 Jamia has also started a masters of library and information science and climate change and sustainability, which she said is the initiative of the VC who has a background in earth sciences. 
 
 In all, the university is offering over 51 undergraduate courses in streams like science, humanities, engineering and dental studies and has an intake of around 7,000 students. Saeed added that since the whole procedure is online, the process will be smoother and quicker.
 
 This was reiterated by the vice-chancellor who, while inaugurating the new PhD portal, said that it will “fulfil the aspiration of the administration for digitisation and paperless functioning and it will increase efficiency and transparency.”
 
 After submitting the thesis, PhD candidates will be issued an activation code and password by the office of the controller of examination. Once signed in, the scholars will be required to fill a form and upload necessary documents on the portal. The students and supervisors can then check the stages of thesis evaluation.
 
 The VC also spoke of how Jamia has increased regional diversity of its students by conducting entrance exams at seven centres across the country. 
 
 
