Nagpur: A gang of three thieves, who used to break windows of cars to steal expensive valuables, was busted on Ganesh Tekdi Road by Sitabuldi police last Saturday. Working under the guidance of zone II DCP Rakesh Ola, police recovered 21 mobile phones, seven laptops, 73 gram gold, eight handbags and other material, in all worth Rs6.61lakh, on Monday.

 The accused were identified as mastermind Jitendra Ramteke, a resident of MIDC Road, Gangaprasad Verma from Bhopal, and Mohd Sareeq, a resident of Ganjipeth. Verma was sent to magisterial custody while Ramteke and Sareeq were remanded to police custody till Wednesday.
 
 Ola told reporters that cases of such burglaries had been increasing since April 2017. Police had laid several traps, but in vain. On December 17, last month, Prashant Askar has lodged a complaint that his car’s window was broken and valuables, including his house keys, bank passbooks etc, were stolen.
 
 “Teams were posted where most such incidents occurred. One of the teams from detection branch laid the trap on Ganesh Tekdi Road. They saw Ramteke, an autorickshaw driver, park his vehicle beside a car and peep inside. When he saw nobody was around, he broke the window. The police nabbed him just as he was about to remove the valuables from the car,” said the DCP.
 
 Ramteke spilled the beans, which led to the arrest of the other two criminals. Ramteke confessed to his role in 10 offences. However, many more cases may be solved during investigations, said Ola. The gang used to target vehicles parked in front of marriage halls, at desolate places, specially vehicles that had not been moved for long.
 
 Senior PI of Sitabuldi police station Hemant Kharabe said Verma was a vagabond. Once he was caught by Ramteke while stealing Rs1,000 cash from the pocket of migrants near the railway station. Ramteke had at that time taken Rs500 from him, and assured a larger share if he helped him in thefts. Sareeq used to sell the stolen valuables and give Ramteke and Verma their share.
 
 
