Pune: Prerna Tulsiani from DAV Public School scored 495 marks (99%) in her Class X CBSE results to bag the second position, along with two others, in the state on Tuesday.

 Prerna, who plans to take up science for a career in engineering, said she scored as per the expectations. “I was very consistent in my studies since the beginning of the year. I used to study throughout the day with planned breaks,” she said, adding that she has already started preparing for the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT) entrance exam, which she will appear for after her Class XII.
 
 A majority of the schools in the city registered 100% pass percentage on Tuesday with several students scoring above 98% in the Class X results. From the Global Indian International School (GIIS), Chinchwad, Shubham Bakre scored 98.4% to top the school. Radheya Pandit, who appeared for the exam under candidates with special needs, secured 75.2%.
 
 At the Army Public School, Kirkee, Anjani Kumar topped the school with 97.4%. At Amanora School, Parnika Srija, secured 95.8% to emerge the school topper. At Delhi Public School, Manali Malavade topped the school with 98.6%. The school had 13 students with learning disability and all of them cleared the exam with flying colours.
 
 The Orbis School also registered cent percent results with school topper Divya Kumhar getting 95.5%. At SNBP International School, Rahatni, Sharvani Nalbalwar topped the school with 97.4%. The City Pride School in Nigdi Pradhikaran also registered 100% pass percentage with its topper, Yash Kulkarni, securing 97.2%.
 
 The GG International School had all its 115 students clearing the exam and topper Anjali Nair scoring 98%. At Vidyashilp Public School, Dhruvi Agarwal topped with 95.6%. The Vatsalya School had Tanya Chatterjee topping the school with 97.6%, while at City International School, Kothrud, Ketki Paithankar topped with 97.4%. The Blossom Public School had Neelima Dandekar and Isha Dighe emerging joint toppers with 97.6%.
 
 Pragna Mamidipaka from City International School, Wanowrie, topped the school with a score of 97%. Jnana Prabodhini Prashala’s Akhil Atre stood first with 98.4%. At the Akshara International School, Shreya Akurathi emerged topper with 96%.
 
 JSPM’S Blossom Public School in Tathawade had joint toppers in Isha Dighe and Neelima Dandekar who scored an identical 97.6%. At Indira National School, Urmica Agrawal scored 97.8% to emerge the topper.
 
 From the City International School on Satara Road, Vineet Jain emerged school topper with 97.8%. At the RIMS International School in Undri, Mohammed Adnan Parkar emerged school topper with 93.4%. From Army Public School, Dehu Road, Ritvik Vaishnav scored 95.8% to emerge topper. From APS, Camp, Shayantanee Basu and Sumedha Sharma scored 97.2% each to become school toppers.
 
 The Lexicon International School in Wagholi also achieved 100% results with Swapanoneel Kayal emerging topper with 95.2 %. At the Vikhe Patil Memorial School, Anshula Mulkalwar scored 97.4% to top the school.
 
 
