PUNE: A late-night shopping spree followed by a movie date and finally a fancy meal at 4 am is a dream that is not going to see its fruition in Pune anytime soon. Though it has been more than 20 days since the Maharashtra government issued a notification allowing shops and establishments to stay open 24×7, the industry has not responded with much enthusiasm.

 While some believe that it will take establishments some time to figure out feasible ways to stay open around the clock, others blamed the fact that bars have been kept out of the proposal’s ambit for the poor response. Restaurateurs and industry sources are also divided on whether or not a written order from the state government has come. Though the industry players had earlier pitched for such a proposition, now it seems, they feel immediate implementation of 24X7 operations is unviable.
 
 It will take Pune at least a year or two to be ready for the 24X7 commercial operations, said sources in the Pune Restaurants and Hoteliers Association (PRAHA). They said it may take that long for the establishments to work out the logistics. Meanwhile, the   (HRAWI) sources pointed out that establishments in both Mumbai and Pune have had a tepid response to the proposal, mainly because the bars have been kept out of its ambit.
 
 Ganesh  , the PRAHA president, said 2018 has already started on a slack note with a 30% drop in clientele. “The few clients that demand late night or round-the-clock services cannot compensate for the cost of running an establishment through the night. Nowadays, we do not see a rush of clients after midnight. Also, only eateries without bars are allowed the 24x7 operations. As a proposition it is good, as serving liquor through the night may create law-and-order situations. However, to have clients pour in just for the food throughout the night seems a little difficult. Round-the-clock operations may take a year or two to see the light of the day,” said Shetty, adding that areas like Hinjewadi, Kharadi and Balewadi, which are the IT zones of the city, will be the first to benefit.
 
 Dilip Datwani, the president of HRAWI, said even in Mumbai, the response has been less than enthusiastic because the bars are not allowed to serve round the clock. “Only the areas that are close to the station or the airport might opt for this. No one has actually started the 24X7 operations,” he said.
 
 “The new amendment to the Maharashtra Shops and Establishment Act, 2017, has certain restrictions in terms of the minimum number of workers required to keep a place open 24x7. These are not feasible for small shops,” said Ajit Setiya, the national vice-president of   (New Delhi) and Pune Jaggery Merchants Association president
 
 As per the amendment to the Maharashtra Shops and Establishment Act, 2017, even cinema   and malls can operate 24 hours a day. Prakash  , the secretary of Multiplex Association of India, said an earlier home department order restricts the operation of theatres to 1 am in Pune and 2 am in Mumbai. “We are expecting a corrigendum to that order. Once such an order comes, halls willing to operate 24X7 can do so,” he said.
 
 
