A journey of a thousand miles begins with a single step. The oft-repeated adage makes sense in every possible way - theoretically and practically. While hard work does help one in achieving goals, a good round of brisk walking each day will only make the individual healthier and the fruits of success even sweeter.

 The benefits of walking have only been highlighted time and again by doctors, health trainers, dieticians and medical periodicals. But it's always helpful to remind us about the takeaways of walking. We   in association with   list down a few.
 
 It helps maintain a healthy weight, strengthens the bones and muscles, keeps a check on various conditions including type 2 diabetes and high blood pressure. It's also a good tool to de-stress which in turn takes care of emotional health and makes the individual confident. "I was overweight and had plenty of health issues. But walking helped me reclaim the joys of life," said  , a member of the Nerul Walking Club. "It took years of hard work but it paid in the end. Now I try and make it a point to help others ease into the joys of walking," said  , who weighed 120kgs, but now is a sprightly 75kgs.
 
 Walking is the safest exercise. If you want to lose weight quickly then jogging is always a better option but that activity can lead to complications that walking can avoid. It is a simple exercise with virtually no risks involved. You don't need to walk fast, all you need is to walk.
 
 "The morning walk for me mixes the benefits of exercise with the joy of socializing. I look forward to a walk with group of like-minded, fun-loving friends. It is the best start to my day. It completely refreshes and revitalizes me," says   from Marine Drive Walking Club.
 
 There are walking clubs around the world and now they are used to explore the city. When you travel to a holiday destination, walking is the easiest and best way to see the new place. Walking takes you places where wheels can't.
 
 For health and happiness, keep walking.
 
 
