NEW DELHI: Delivering the keynote address at the 8th Earth Care Awards function, Union environment minister   appealed to citizens to do at least one ‘Green Good Deed’ every day. “It’ll be a great step towards saving our environment,” said the minister while addressing a gathering of environmentalists, industrialists and civil society members on Tuesday. 

 The Earth Care Awards, a joint initiative of The Times of India and the JSW Group, recognize actions and innovations for climate change mitigation and adaptation by communities, entrepreneurs, large scale industries, and small and medium scale enterprises. 
 
 The minister, who along with   CEO Raj Jain, JSW Foundation chairperson Sangita Jindal and Bollywood actress Juhi Chawla gave awards to the winners, said his ministry had brainstormed with policy-makers and experts to come out with a list of over 500 actions — Green Good Deeds -which can be adopted by people to save the environment. 
 
 “Adopt at least one of those actions. It won’t cost you anything. We just need to alter our behaviour which I would like to call ‘green good behaviour’. It’s a ‘Green Social Responsibility’ like we have ‘Corporate Social Responsibility’ in corporates”, said Vardhan amid big applause from the gathering. Juhi Chawla said such actions should be made part of the school syllabus to bring about real change. “Why is not that (Green Good Deeds) part of syllabus in our schools?” she asked. Chawla along with the minister, Sangita Jindal and UNDP country director in India Marina Walter also released ‘Climate Action Stories’ - a book recognising the efforts of leaders in climate change at the function. 
 
 Nine entities from nearly 250 applicants were presented with this year’s awards under four broad categories -leadership in urban climate action, community; industry (greenhouse gas mitigation by large enterprises) and innovation for climate protection. The awards are technically supported by knowledge partner Centre for   (CEE) and outreach partner Technology, Education, Research and Rehabilitation for the Environment (TEERE). 
 
 The awardees were selected by a panel of 11 distinguished jury members including eminent scientist R A Mashelkar; founder director of the CEE Kartikeya V Sarabhai; chairperson of the TEERE Rajendra Shende; deputy director general of the CSE Chandra Bhushan; director general of TERI Ajay Mathur and WWF-India CEO Ravi Singh, among others. 
 
 Quoting Mashelkar who said “Let this not be an event, but a movement”, Sangita Jindal in her speech said, “ I look forward to taking the Earth Care Awards movement worldwide”. She shared that the organisers this year had received applications from not only India but also from four other Asian countries (Japan, Nepal, Bangladesh and  ).
 
