GURUGRAM:   on Tuesday demolished illegal   encroaching upon what was originally a pond in Sukhrali village after a complaint against encroachments on the CM Window.

 A team of MCG officials, along with cops, under duty magistrate Vijay Yadav demolished multiple temporary and permanent structures which had encroached the water body, using earth movers. “The plot, originally a water body, had been illegally occupied by a number of people who had built small shops and other structures on it. All such structures were demolished and the   have been warned against coming up with such constructions again,” said an MCG official.
 
 The water body in Sukhrali is currently being rejuvenated by the corporation. According to sources, the MCG team working on the water body had expressed concerns regarding encroachments around it, saying such structures would hinder the rejuvenation work.
 
 Most water bodies in the city face encroachment by locals. Even the Sikanderpur Ghoshi pond revival project which was approved by the chief minister a couple of weeks ago is facing a similar problem.
 
 MCG had earlier allotted a tender of Rs 65 lakh for the Sukhrali water body rejuvenation project. This is part of a bigger project under which 16 water bodies, including the ones at Basai, Jahajgarh, Basai, Sukhrali, have been identified for rejuvenation and revival.
 
 MCG officials said that the rejuvenation work would include restoration of water, construction of walkways and walls around the water bodies, beautification and landscaping. However, exact specifications would differ from one water body to another. MCG has also floated a tender for rejuvenation work of the Basai water body but it is yet to be allotted. The work will cost around Rs 85 lakh.
 
 Sukhrali sees a lot of encroachment in other areas, as well. A number of structures has encroached the Mehrauli road which crosses through the area, affecting the traffic on the MDI flyover which was recently constructed by the NHAI. 
 
 
