COIMBATORE: A 26-acre plot near   is being readied for the first ever jallikattu in the city which is scheduled to be held on January 28.

 On Saturday, around 20 workers were seen making seating and safety arrangements, besides constructing the vadivaasal from where the bulls would be let in. Representatives of  , which along with the district administration is organising the event, said they would ensure strict security measures for the event.
 
 “Officials from the district administration and animal welfare department have already visited the place,” said a member of the organising committee. “We will not involve untrained bulls or tamers. We will bring certified bulls and tamers from Madurai for the event,” he said adding that the preparations would be completed by Wednesday.
 
 While almost all aspects of the traditional bull taming sport have been incorporated in the event, organisers said they have doubled up safety measures. “In front of the viewers’ gallery, there would be two sets of barricades – one made of wood and the other made of metal. And they will be 11ft high. The distance between the gallery and the arena will also be 11ft,” the organiser said. The gallery can accommodate around 15,000 people. There would also be two ambulance ways, he added.
 
 People involved in constructing jallikattu arenas have been roped in for the event.   from   who was heading the process of constructing barricades and the vadivaasal said only the first 50ft from the vadivaasal was the game arena, where players are allowed to tame the bull.
 
 “After that, the bull will be let to run freely till the collection point, where its owner can collect the animal,” he said. The 200sqft collection point will be surrounded by double metal fencing, he added.
 
 Thomas said usually they keep a distance of 300ft for the bull to run free after being tamed. “But we have allocated 500ft here,” he added.
 
 The trained bulls and tamers would be brought from Madurai under the supervision of P Rajasekharan, president of   Jallikattu Federation. Rajasekharan said the event has been planned and designed well within the regulations. “I have visited the event venue. It is well suited for jallikattu,” he said. He added that the federation would bring experienced people to man the vadivaasal.
 
 Minister for municipal administration S P   would preside over the foundation-laying event for the vadivaasal on Sunday, a communication from the district administration said. 
 
 
