HYDERABAD: Between March 1 and now, the city has received 88 mm of rainfall — 37 per cent higher than what is normally recorded during the pre-monsoon period. And this is only likely to increase with weathermen predicting more rainfall, accompaniedby thunderstorm, in Hyderabad over the nextfewdays.

 
 “The city will continue to receive light to moderate rainfall for the next three to four days due to prevailing thunderstorm activity,” said  , meteorologist, Indian Meteorological Department, (IMD) Hyderabad, terming this as a normal occurrence during this time of the year.
 
  
  
 
 The reason for the rainfall, experts said, is a low-level circulation that has developed over Telangana. “A trough that was extending from central parts to coastal Karnataka has further moved westwards and has developed a low-level circulation over   and adjoining   region. South and south-westerly winds are expected to prevail over many parts of Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana region,” stated the report issued by  , a weather forecasting agency.
 
 Experts say that this weather is likely to continue till the end of the month and give way to the onset of the south-west monsoon. “By May 15, we are likely to get the detailed schedule of the onset of south-west monsoon. However, it is likely to hit Kerala sooner this time by May-end. Telangana will receive monsoon just a week after it hits Kerala,” said Raja Rao.
 
 While Telangana has received an excess of 30 per cent rainfall,during thissame period, Nalgonda received a maximum of 136 per cent rainfall. While other districts such as Warangal, Ranga Reddy, Medak, Adilabad Mahbubnagar and Khammam too had received rainfall in excess,   and   suffered a deficiency of 50 per cent and 16 per cent respectively.
 
 But even as meteorologists predicted the thunderstorm activity to continue, IMD, Hyderabad issued a heatwave warning for the northern districts of Telangana for Sunday. “Heatwaveconditionslikely to prevail at one or two pockets in the districts of Adilabad, Nirmal, Komarambheem, Mancherial, Niazamabad, Kamareddy, Jagityal, Rajanna Sircilla, Peddapalle and Karimnagar of Telangana,” read the warning.
 
