SURAT: It was the moment when 24-year-old MSc   from the   (VNSGU) for the first time realized the importance of her achievement that even made the President of India jealous.

 
 
 Jignasha Savaliya, who won four gold medals for academic excellence, was in for an unexpected surprise when she got a special mention from President   during his address at the 49th Annual   of VNSGU at Surat on Tuesday.
 
 When Savaliya’s name was announced, President Kovind inquired with the staff if all the four gold medals handed to him belonged to only one student. The President put his hand on Savaliya’s head and blessed her for her success.
 
 “I was confused if all the four medals were for her. I told her that I am jealous of you. People don’t get so many medals during their entire student life,” Kovind said during his address at the convocation.
 
 Talking about her struggle, Savaliya recalled how a few years ago her father had asked her to discontinue studies after class XII due to financial crisis. But she was determined to study further. 
 
 While studying MSc, Savaliya started working at a school to pay for her fees. At one point of time one of the university teachers paid her fees of Rs 4,500 when she could not to arrange it in time.
 
 Jignasha, who completed her MSc in chemistry, won four medals for scoring 91% marks in final exam. She got two gold medals for being topper in organic chemistry and one each for best score in all chemistry subjects and over all MSc course.
 
 “I realized importance of my achievement only when the President told me that he was jealous of me. It was a big surprise and the most memorable moment of my life that even President of the country feels jealous of to my achievements,” Savaliya told TOI. 
 
 She is now planning to do PhD and looking forward to a career in teaching. Her father Babubhai Savaliya, who did textile embroidery job work, tried hard to make ends meet for his family. He has studied up to class III, while her mother is illiterate. The family is originally from Pipar village in Kalavad taluka of Jamnagar.
 
 “My parents wanted me to discontinue studies after class XII, but they gave into my wish and supported me to study further,” Savaliya said.
 
 Savaliya’s father confessed that he was wrong in asking his younger daughter to quit studies. “I got my elder daughter married early and did not allow her to study beyond class X, thinking that what difference will it make. But after seeing Jignasha’s success, I have realized how wrong I was,” Babubhai said.
 
 
