NEW DELHI: The Delhi Police is on the look out for a gang which has duped several youths of lakhs of rupees by promising them   in the  . 

 Cops have identified the culprits and raids are on to arrest them, sources said.
 
 The gang targeted youths who were fresh out of school. The members not only posed as army officers, but also took the aspirants to the army camp area in   where fake interviews and physical examinations were conducted, police said.
 
 Police swung into action after they received a complaint from Sudheer Singh, who said he was duped of Rs 5 lakh by the gang. In his complaint, Singh said that he was looking for a job after passing Class XII when a fellow villager informed him that he could get him recruited in the Territorial Army. Singh was introduced to one of the accused, Pradeep, who demanded Rs 5 lakh in lieu of the job.
 
 After Singh agreed to pay, Pradeep allegedly took him to Delhi Cantonment in his car and introduced him to ‘Amit Fauji’. Amit claimed that he had an understanding with the commanding officer and he could get Singh recruited. 
 
 “After this, I was taken to ‘105 TP ground’ where the physical test was conducted. From there, they took me to the   where one Dr Sandeep conducted the medical examination in the bathroom. Then I was taken for a formal interview which was conducted by Amit,” said Singh in his complaint. Lured by the job prospect, Singh’s cousin Pawan also arranged for Rs 5 lakh and paid to the gang. He was also made to undergo a similar procedure.
 
 The youths were then given their ‘joining letters’ and told to report to Bangalore. Their families were ecstatic with their appointments and celebrated in a grand way.
 
 The duo then took a train to Bangalore and waited several hours at the station for the ‘armyman’ who was supposed to receive them, but nobody turned up. Realising that they had been duped, the youths returned to Delhi and filed a case.
 
 The Territorial Army (TA) is a part of the army and its role is to relieve the regular army from static duties and assist civil administration in dealing with natural calamities and maintaining services in emergency situations.
 
 “TA is a second line of defence; it is not a profession, occupation or a source of employment. It is only meant for those people who are already in mainstay civilian professions; in fact, gainful employment or self-employment in a civil profession is a prerequisite for joining the Territorial Army,” says the Indian Army website.
 
 
