MUMBAI:   on Wednesday described as “unfortunate and uncalled for” the criticism he has faced from the   for participating in a   which is part of a campaign for saving Mumbai’s four  .

 “I am surprised over the vilification campaign. A leading organisation had drafted a campaign for conservation of rivers in Mumbai. They approached me for issuing an appeal to the people. Since it was for a public cause, I agreed to it, nothing wrong in it,” Fadnavis told TOI. The Congress had taken objection to the video featuring the CM, his wife Amruta as one of the singers (the other being Sonu Nigam), municipal commissioner Ajoy Mehta and police commissioner Datta Padsalgikar. It had asked if such campaigns will really conserve rivers and wondered how the CM had allowed officials to participate in the video.
 
 A senior official from the CM’s office said the video had been prepared by an NGO, River March, and the state government or the DGIPR (the state’s publicity department) was not associated with it. In the recent past, a series of meetings for river conservation were held at the CM’s level and as part of a mass awakening drive, River March had proposed to prepare a video in which both the CM and his wife should appeal to people to participate in the campaign. “Fadnavis, his wife Amruta, Mehta and Padsalgikar joined the campaign in the larger interest of the city,” the official said.
 
 The official also said River March prepared the video at its own cost and at no stage was it commercially utilised. It was uploaded on YouTube by T-Series in view of its reach. “This was not the first time. In the past, the CM has issued similar appeals for a public cause. It is unfortunate Congress has politicised the issue,” he said. A bureaucrat told TOI, “It (the participation) was for a cause. In the past, Salman Khan, Akshay Khanna, Ranveer Singh, and Sachin Tendulkar participated in campaigns launched by BMC. We will have to look beyond politics.”
 
 Opposition leader Radhakrishna Vikhe Patil mocked the video on Wednesday, saying BJP should rename itself “Baja Party.”
 
 
 
 
