CHENNAI: With six new underground metro rail stations now open, a single train can take commuters to all major transport hubs in the city in less than an hour. A train from  , the city’s largest underground transit hub, will stop at Egmore, and then CMBT to reach airport in about 50 minutes. 

 On Friday, chief minister   flagged off operations at the stations covering 6.8km on two different stretches including a 4.5km underground line on Anna Salai. About 75% of Phase 1 metro lines is now operational.
 
  
  A metro train snakes through a ramp protected by flood walls on a bridge over the Adyar river
 
 Metro officials said there will be a direct train from Central Metro every 10 minutes during peak hours and at an interval of 20 minutes during non-peak hours. "As the number of passengers goes up, we will increase the overall frequency and operate trains every five minutes during peak hours and every 10 minutes during non-peak hours," an official said. "We are also considering extension of the duration of train services in the morning and at night."
 
 The Central Metro spread across 70,000sqm will cater to commuters of suburban and MRTS services as well as those arriving at Central Railway Station. The same goes for Egmore metro, which has been built close to Egmore station, the last point for many south-bound trains. "We hope to see an increase in footfall, now that Central and Egmore are open," a senior official said. At present, only one entry point built adjacent to Park suburban station is open. It is means commuters from Central and Moore Market Complex will have to cross the road to access the facility.
 
 However, the commute between Central metro and Airport will now be through a roundabout route via Kilpauk, Shenoy Nagar, Anna Nagar, Koyambedu and Alandur, as the stretch between May Day Park to AG-DMS on Anna Salai, which terminates at airport, is likely to be ready by end of the year. "But for a passenger who arrives on a long-distance train at Central railway station intending to head to the airport, metro train is the most convenient transport option as it is not only cheap but also faster than a cab or an auto," said M Sreenivasan, one of the first passengers to take a ride at Central.
 
 As the much-anticipated Central metro has finally opened its doors to commuters, Anna Salai saw the launch of a portion of the underground section after a delay of more than two years. For commuters, the line between AG-DMS and Little Mount is crucial as the stations are located next to MTC stops where buses bound for southern suburbs halt. 
 
 The hassle-free mode of transport, experts hope will take more four-wheelers off the road. Nashwa Naushad, associate at the Institute for Transportation and Development Policy, said nearly 40% travel in private vehicles. While the extension will slightly increase the public transit mode share, the increase can be significantly improved if last-mile connectivity is taken care of. "At present, the ridership for metro rail is at 30,000 and MTC caters to 4.5 lakh a day. When both metro and buses improve, public transport will become popular and by that time, we should have fare integration ready where a passenger can swipe one card across all public transport," said Naushad.
 
 
