GURUGRAM: The city has bagged three top ranks in the country in the Class X   board exams, whose results were declared on Tuesday.

 With 499 marks (99.8%) out of 500,   of DPS, Sector 45, became one of the four students who have come nationwide joint  . The others are from Binjor, Shamli and Cochin. Second position was bagged by Writika Sarkar of the same school, with 498 marks (99.6%), along with six other students from cities like Cochin, Noida, Sonipat, Muzaffarnagar, etc. Following the two was Lakshya Chawla of DAV Public School, Sector 49, who bagged third position with 497 marks (99.4%). 
 
 Students erupted with joy after results were declared. Prakhar Mittal was both elated and surprised. “I was positively shocked when I discovered I had topped,” he told TOI. Passionate about piano music and robotics, Mittal said he wasn’t an “overly studious child”. “I did not stress myself over studies,” he said. “We ought not stress ourselves. That is the key to success. I studied consistently, but didn’t slog for endless hours, as is the enduring stereotype about toppers. I studied round the year, and only to the extent I could discern and absorb,” adding, “I’d like to tell other students that we must not take board exams so seriously that we become exceedingly anxious about them. It’s important not to stress oneself.”
 
 Mittal said when he first heard about the result, he went running to his parents to inform them. His father, a chartered accountant, was rapturous. “I left a very important meeting midway, because I couldn’t contain my emotions,” said  , the father. Mittal has scored positional grade of A1 in every subject. He said he wanted to study robotics in future. “I’m very enthusiastic about robotics,” he said. “I’ve already attended events related to robotics in Australia and the US.” Mittal’s mother, Prachi, said she never pushed their son to study. 
 
 The other topper, Writika Sarkar, is not a toiler either. In fact, she didn’t even attend private tuitions. “I self-studied,” Sarkar told TOI. “When I saw my results, I couldn’t believe my eyes. I reloaded the website five times to assure myself.” Sarkar too said she would not want students to stress themselves. “We should study with concentration and minimum distraction. It’s not that I studied all the time. I’m fond of playing the flute, and watch a lot of movies too.” Her mother, Arundhati Sarkar, told TOI Writika had struck a balance between playing and studying. 
 
 Exams were held across 26 centres in the city, with each centre hosting up to 400 students. Most Gurugram schools reported 100% pass results. Kanishka Thakran and Anamika Srivastava (both 98.8%) came first in Salwan Public School, Sector 15. At Amity International, Sector 46, Aakarshi Agarwal bagged top position with 98.6% marks. The topper of DPS, Sushant Lok, was   with 98.4% marks. At Blue Bells, Sector 4, Ashish Singh topped with 98.2% marks, while at Blue Bells, Sector 10, Tanishka Prakash came first with 97.6% marks. Aditya Gaur topped Ajanta Public School with 97.2% marks.
 
 
