New Delhi: A 19-year-old girl is battling for life after mysteriously falling off the third floor   of her male friend’s house in central Delhi’s Karol Bagh on New Year’s Eve. However, the woman’s family has alleged that her friend   her off after an argument.

 The friend, Sahil Khan (20), has been arrested on the girl’s family’s complaint. DCP (central) Mandeep Singh Randhawa confirmed the arrest. Probe is on to establish the sequence of events. The   has sustained multiple fractures and head injuries and is currently undergoing treatment at BLK hospital.
 
 The girl came in contact with the accused, Sahil Khan (20), through Facebook six months ago and remained in constant touch with him.
 
 Her mother told TOI that six months ago she saw her daughter chatting with a stranger. “When I asked her about him, she told me about Sahil and that he lived in Dubai. Initially, I was fine with it, but when I saw her glued to Facebook day and night I took away her phone,” she said.
 
 “She was irritable at first, but I noticed a change in her behaviour a week later. She was as jovial as before. Last month while I was at work, one of my nieces told me that she had seen my daughter talking on a cellphone. I went home and asked her for the hidden phone and she handed it over to me. She told me that Sahil had gifted it to talk to her,” the mother added.
 
 On the day of the incident, the mother said that her daughter came to her while she was doing laundry and told her that she was going to meet Sahil for one last time as he was getting married and wanted his phone back.
 
 “I was happy that she won’t be in touch with Sahil anymore. She had promised to return home within 15 minutes, but when she didn’t come back after half an hour I called to inquire where she was. My daughter told me that Sahil was forcefully taking her to his house in Karol Bagh to have a discussion,” the mother said.
 
 Almost 20 minutes later, she got a call from her daughter. “She was weeping and said that Sahil had kidnapped her. He had given her a choice to either marry him or give him Rs 70,000. My daughter kept saying ‘bachao bachao’ and asked Sahil not to come close to her. Before I could say anything, the call was disconnected. When I tried calling back, the phone was switched off,” the mother claimed.
 
 
