GHAZIABAD: The state government has suspended Rakesh Maheshwari, executive officer of Dasna Nagar  , after allegations of financial irregularities against him were found true by a probe team formed by Meerut range commissioner. An FIR has also been filed against him.

 In November last year, it was alleged by then councilor Sashi Chauhan that executive officer Maheshwari had awarded a contract to a firm Sree Nathji Enterprises to procure LED lights. Sree Nathji Enterprises is partly owned by his son Saurabh Maheshwari.
 
 Sajid Hussain, who was chairman of Dasna Nagar Panchayat at that time, said, “Chauhan had lodged a formal complaint with the administration against the financial irregularities committed by Maheshwari by awarding the contract to his son’s firm, hence violating existing norms.”
 
 Following this, Meerut range commissioner Prabhat Kumar ordered a probe into the matter. The allegations levelled against Maheshwari were found to be true by the probe committee after which Kumar recommended to the state government that Rakesh Maheswari be sacked.
 
 It was found that Rakesh Maheshwari not only awarded the contract and released the money to his son’s firm, but also to  , a firm owned by his son’s friend. 
 
 Between August 2017 and September 2017 Rakesh Maheswari released nearly Rs 8.5 lakh by exerting his influence in the matter. According to officials, Maheshwari managed to release the money to both the firms before they could even be verified by the state government.
 
 Confirming the development, district magistrate Ritu Maheshwari said, “Rakesh Maheshwari has been suspended and his charge has been given to city magistrate Atul Kumar. An FIR has already been lodged against him and police will be initiate further action against him.”
 
 On February 2, an FIR under section 409 of IPC was also lodged against Maheshwari at Masoori police station after a Dasna Nagar Panchayat official filed a complaint. The accused is at large and police are making an effort to nab him.
 
 
