Nagpur: Tourists, who feel safari charges in Tadoba-Andhari Tiger Reserve (TATR) are unaffordable, will for the first time be able to share the six-seater Gypsys with co-tourists from February 1. Currently, with a lack of seat-booking system, even two tourists entering the park have to pay full Gypsy charges. In the newly approved proposal, the state government has made a provision for booking all the six seats or even just one on the Gypsy.  “This will be on the lines of cabs runs by aggregators,” said wildlife wing officials.  The move follows after finance and forest minister Sudhir Mungantiwar on January 3, at a meeting held in Mumbai, approved the tourism proposal forwarded by state’s principal chief conservator of forests (wildlife) AK Misra. As reported by TOI on January 4, the approved proposal includes Rs4,000 for those booking between 60-120 days in advance. On Saturdays and Sundays, the safaris will cost Rs8,000.  Tatkal bookings will also be available for Rs4,000. Strangely, for those booking safari less than 60 days in advance the charges will be Rs1,000 and Rs2000 on weekends. These rates will be applicable from January 9 (Tuesday) from 8am.  Among other decisions taken, spot bookings will not be permitted, add-on system has been scrapped, registration of vehicles will be based on its age and fee for Indian tourists and foreigners will be the same. Naturalist Himanshu Bagde hailed the move to introduce seat-sharing facility. “It will be economical for individuals and will also attract more tourists to the park,” Bagde said. The online safari bookings for TATR were halted for more than a month as the tourism proposal was pending with the state government. Sources said bookings will be thrown open at 8am from Tuesday. Misra said on Monday that the government had suggested minor changes. The new regulations will be implemented from February 1. Officials said one of the suggested changes include vehicle registration fees. As per the original proposal for individual category, the registration fee was Rs5,000 with Rs20,000 as security deposit. For resorts located in buffer and paying conservation fees, it was Rs15,000 and Rs25,000 and for resorts located outside buffer it was Rs25,000 and Rs50,000 respectively. However, the government has suggested that there should be different rates of security deposit and registration fee for vehicles less than 5 years old and those between 5 and 10 years old and beyond 10-15 years. This will encourage Gyspy owners to use less-polluting vehicles. Forest minister Mungantiwar has also suggested that the number of canters for economy tourists be increased. TOI had reported that number of canters will be increased to six. Currently, one canter each is operated from Navegaon and Kolara gates and two from Mohurli gate. Now four canters will operate from Mohurli.