Oss,” they say and bow to each other as the two of them step on the mat for a   bout. Then, there’s no stopping them — they fight tooth and nail as their trainer,  , keeps giving them instructions. The action goes on for about 10 minutes, after which Rajagopal sits down to chat with us. “These guys are technically so sound that they can even throw me down on the mat,” chuckles Rajagopal, who’s quite impressed with the way his students practise judo. Rajagopal, who’s also the vice-president of Tamil Nadu Judo Association, has been training people in judo and jujutsu on East Club Road in Shenoy Nagar since 1997. 

 
  
 
 Recently, Rajagopal and two other trainers from Chennai —   (founder of Tai-Iku Kai Karate and   Self Defense Training School) and   (president and technical director of Shorei-kan Karate-Do Asia) have been recognised by the Japanese Consulate in the city for their contribution to Japanese martial arts.
 Though he’s 79 years old, Rajagopal says that he still has the same energy he had when he initially started practising martial arts. While he was a youngster, he fancied Japanese movies, and that’s how he got hooked to judo. “I was born, brought up and educated in Burma. I completed my Bachelor of Engineering there in 1967. Back then, I used to watch many Japanese movies and naturally, I found judo exciting. Later, I came to Chennai. While I started working in the Public Works Department here, I continued training in judo under Jaikumar and Peter Gill from Calcutta,” recalls Rajagopal.
 Thanks to his judo classes, many from the not-so-privileged background are doing well today. “I teach most of them for free,” he says with a shy smile.
 Rajagopal adds, “Some of them give whatever they can. When I first started taking classes here in 1997, boys from a nearby slum would scale the wall and throw stones. Once, I asked them to come inside and taught them some techniques. They’ve been hooked to the form since; while some went on to win medals in national championships, a few others are trainers now.”
 Narrating an incident that touched his heart, he says, “One day, I was going out for tea and I saw one of my students there. He wished me and said ‘Master, I will buy you tea today’. When I asked him what he did for a living, he told me he worked as a gravedigger. I was so touched that he had so much respect for me, for, I taught him for free.”
 Mohammed Ismail, who is all of 24, says, “I am what I am today because of judo. I had to discontinue my education when I was in Class 9 because of financial difficulties. Then I joined judo classes here and was able to continue my education with his support. I completed BCom and have now joined Tamil Nadu Small Industries Corporation.” 
 Rajagopal and others who teach Japanese martial arts in the city say that the Chennaiites’ interest in these forms have been growing by the day. “Today, parents and grandparents accompany kids when they come to learn Japanese martial art form, and are, in fact, very proud and happy to see them perform well,” states Rajagopal. Seconding him is Haribabu, who specialises in Okinawan Goju-Ryu karate style. He adds, “We are currently associated with some of the top schools and colleges in Chennai, including American International School, MVM International, Ethiraj College and SIET College, to train the students.”
 
 
  
 
 Self-defense, discipline, fitness — there are several reasons why Japanese martial arts have found favour among people here. “These forms are very practical and come handy in real-life situations. Today, crime against women is on the rise. You can use your dupatta just the way you use nunchaku in kobudo. Did you know that bangles resemble this fist-load weapon called tekko? You have no idea how powerful a weapon a magazine can be if it is rolled up tightly,” explains Krishnamurthy, who’s known for his kobudo classes. 
 One of his students, 22-year-old K Swetha, who’s now a corporate employee, says, “I started learning martial arts at the age of nine. Now, when I have to travel alone at night after work, I don’t really feel scared, for I am confident that I can take care of myself. Apart from the self-defense techniques, the self-belief that martial arts help you develop is amazing.” 
 Haribabu adds, “Karate has always been a favourite in Chennai. Karate combines self-defense with strong Japanese cultural influences like showing respect, building character, patience, self-belief, fairness and honour. These are values that people in Chennai identify with.”
 
