MYSURU: In what is likely to significantly reduce the burden on government hospitals in the city, the 350-bed state-of-the-art hospital, the Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences and Research is all set to be inaugurated by chief minister Siddaramaiah on February 24. The hospital has been built at the cost of Rs 150 crore, while a trauma centre has been constructed at the cost of Rs 30 crore. The new facility will come up at the PKTB Sanatorium Campus on  .

 Once the hospital becomes functional, it will offer cardiac and open-heart surgeries, which other government medical institutions in the city are now forced to refer to private multi-specialty hospitals or   in Bengaluru. The construction of the hospital started four years ago. Micro-pathology is one of the departments that the new facility will have. The 110-bed facility that Jayadeva Hospital currently has at the KR Hospital premises does not have equipment to perform surgeries.
 
 Senior cardiologist and director of Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences and Research, Bengaluru Dr CN Manjunath told TOI, “This is a 350-bed super-specialty hospital.While the state government has provided Rs 150 crore, the Jayadeva institute has managed to provide the remaining Rs 60 crore for medical equipment. This is a unique project insofar as seeing the institute making a contribution for itself.”
 
 Listing some of the facilities that the new facility will have, Dr Manjunath said, “The hospital will have four   for performing open-heart surgeries, cardiac CT scan lab and MRI facilities among others. In addition to a general ward, we will have semi-special, deluxe and special wards. The cost of treatment will remain the same.”
 
 Dr Manjunath affirmed that there was no shortage of specialist doctors, nurses and support staff. “There is no dearth of staff at Jayadeva Hospital. Currently, there are 170 employees working at Jayadeva Hospital in Mysuru. Once the new facility becomes functional, they will start working there,” he added.
 
 Trauma centre to be inaugurated
 
 In a bid to ensure that emergency cases are quickly attended to, the government established a 100-bed trauma centre alongside the new Jayadeva Hospital facility at the PKTB Sanatorium campus in KRS Road. The trauma centre too will be inaugurated on February 24. Patients from neighbouring districts such as Mandya, Hassan, Chamarajanagar and Kodagu are expected to benefit from the hospital. The hospitals fall under MLA Vasu’s Chamaraja constituency. 
 
 
