If DMK took the cake by organising massive protests infusing fresh energy into the rank and file of the party, the clear loser in failing to capitalize on the anti-Centre mood in   issue is the ruling  . 

 In the wake of intense Cauvery protests, AIADMK's image has taken a hard blow, hitting a new low under EPS - OPS. The grassroots cadre of the ruling party is demoralised, more so because Cauvery issue was close to the heart of former chief minister J Jayalalithaa. She often said her biggest achievement was getting the Cauvery tribunal order published in the central gazette. It was obvious that the AIADMK government sought to do a balancing act not to antogonise the Centre while assuaging the sentiments of TN people. The party MPs put up a brave face in the Parliament by disrupting the recent session, but back home the party had miserably failed in gaining confidence of the people. In fact, the state government deployed much of its police force to thwart attempts of protestors to disrupt  . The strategy appears to have clearly misfired.
 
 While primary opposition party DMK was seen as architect of massive Cauvery protests, AIADMK was only seen as a party siding with the Centre. CPI ntional secretary D Raja said the state government is adopting double standards. "AIADMK MPs have disrupted the Parliament. But the chief minister and his deputy accorded a warm welcome to PM   when he visited the state recently,'' he told reporters in Tirupur. 
 
 Except for occasional statements from minister D Jayakumar, the party functionaries have been silent on the Centre. Rather they targeted DMK and  , accusing them of failing to solve the Cauvery imbroglio during their rule. 
 
 An AIADMK MLA from western region admitted that the party image has taken a beating. Recalling the manner in which Jayalalithaa dealt with the Cauvery issue, he said the present leadership has mishandled it. "Even if our leadership could not take on the Centre, at least the protests should have been handled better. Now we are not only seen as pro-  , but oppressors of a justified protest,'' the MLA said.
 
 Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami is unfazed, though. "We can only submit a memorandum to the Prime minister. The Cauvery issue cannot be resolved through posts on social media,'' he said in Coimbatore on Sunday, playing down the GoBackModi hashtag which trended on Twitter when Modi visited Chennai. When questioned as to why he did not insist on forming Cauvery Management Board when he shared the stage with Modi in Chennai, EPS said they have clearly put forth the demands in the memorandum submitted to the PM.
 
 
