CHANDIGARH: Two males and 13 female gharials from   are on the verge of freedom. They will swim back from extinction on the Indus river system on Wednesday morning at Rakhh Gagdewal, 70 km upstream of Harike barrage on the Beas river. The 15 captive-bred Gharials will bolster the first batch of three males and seven females released at Gagdewal on December 25, 2017, by the Punjab forests and wildlife preservation department and WWF-India under the advice of crocodile expert, Dr BC Choudhury.

 The second phase of the release of this critically-endangered species, six decades after it went extinct on the Beas, has been spurred by the success of the first phase of re-introduction. "We have had a very high number of sightings of the 10 gharials released on December 25. A joint team of the wildlife department and the WWF-India monitored the gharials on a daily basis, 10 km upstream of Gagdewal and 20 km downstream of Gagdewal. On two days, January 8 and 10, the team was able to record eight of the 10 gharials. The other positive aspect is that the local people, led by the Gagdewal sarpanch, have accepted the 10 gharials' presence and there is no apprehension among locals of gharials attacking them," Punjab PCCF (Wildlife) Dr Kuldip Kumar told TOI.
 
 The gharials will leave Chhatbir at 3 am on Wednesday so that they can make it to the release site in time. "We have established a successful protocol for transport and release. We have sexed, weighed and made identity marks on each of the 15 gharials. The health of the gharials has been checked by our veterinary officer. The 25 gharials comprising the first two batches of release were from the Morena captive breeding centre in  . They were transported without any injury to Chhatbir after traversing 600 km in November-end, 2017," Chhatbir field director M Sudhagar told TOI.
 
 The gharials are the first to be re-introduced on the Indus river system and fulfilled the long-term aim of "Project Crocodile" initiated in 1975. India has beaten Pakistan in the conservation race as the Pakistan government has not been able to implement the plan to re-introduce the gharial on the Sukkur barrage on the Indus river. After the second batch is released on Wednesday, two monitoring teams using motorboats will track gharials. The monitoring team for the first batch included WWF-India's   and Gursewak Singh along with the wildlife department's Satnam Singh, Harminder Singh, Karm Singh, Kirpa Singh, Narinder Singh and  .
 
 According to the monitoring report of the first batch of 10 prepared by WWF-India and submitted to the Punjab government, the average sighting of gharials was 4-5 individuals a day. The furthest dispersal of a released gharial was recorded 12 km downstream of Gagdewal while the closest dispersal was 400 m upstream of release site. The gharials generally remained within 3-4 km downstream of Gagdewal, the report stated.
 
 The WWF-India report assessed that fishing, sand mining and farming were major threats to the habitat and gharial survival. "Intensive fishing not only depletes prey base but there are high chances of the gharial getting entangled in the net. This destruction of nets leads to retaliatory killing of gharial by fishermen. Sand is commercially extracted along Beas at Kot Mehtab and Chak Gagdewal. Sand extraction not only destroys habitat but disturbance also leads to desertion of the site by gharials. About 20 large permanent sand islands had been mapped along the 30 km survey stretch on the Beas. However, 50% of these islands have been encroached by locals and converted into croplands," the report stated.
 
 
