NAGPUR: The state’s health public laboratory in Pune has written to the   ( ) in   that the water from the district cannot be tested for heavy metals as its equipment is not working. 

 The water samples were from   in Yavatmal district. The village shot into limelight in March this year after it was reported that 14 deaths had taken place here due to kidney failure in the last 5 years. Many more were found to be suffering from renal problems too. 
 
 The official machinery swung into action and water samples were taken to check the presence of heavy metals which cause kidney trouble. The GMCH also took samples from the village and sent it to the public health laboratory. “Our work is hampered after the lab reverted saying that the equipment was not working,” said a source.
 
 GMCH, which had conducted blood tests, wanted to check the water samples too for an independent analysis. Prior to GMCH, water samples sent by the district health department were tested on March 13 at the same lab and no presence of heavy metals was reported in that sample. 
 
 A month later GMCH also sent samples to the lab. The GMCH replied on April 23 that the inductively coupled plasma spectrophotometer, which is the equipment used for testing the presence of heavy metals in water, was not working. “As soon as the machine is repaired, the samples sent by GMC will be tested on a priority basis,” read the letter.
 
 A senior official from the Pune lab said the machine was not working for the last two-three months. “Some of the spares too are out of order and need to be replaced. The lab was waiting for the departmental approval to spend funds for buying the parts which cost a little over a lakh,” said the officer requesting anonymity. 
 
 He said, “The machine has been supplied by LabIndia and the company is ready to replace the spare. All that remains is an administrative approval for spending money,” said the officer.
 
 The officer could recall that two samples were received from Yavatmal adding that he was not sure if both the samples were tested. “Some of the samples were also sent to the company which conducted the tests using its own equipment,” the source said.
 
 Devanand Pawar, an activist from Shektari Nyaya Hakka Andolan Samiti who had raised the issue of kidney deaths, alleged that this seems to be an attempt to down play the crisis. “If the equipment was not at the lab, arrangements could have been made elsewhere. There are pockets in Yavatmal district where there is a high incidence of kidney-related problems due to quality of water. If the fact is revealed it would lead to a major embarrassment for the government,” he said.
 
 During a visit to Yavatmal, TOI had found cases in the neighbouring villages too.
 
 
