AGRA: Four years after the Swachh Bharat Mission was launched, 42 primary and upper primary schools in Agra turned out to have no toilets. Students in these schools are forced to go out of the school premises to relieve themselves. The fact came to light following a survey ordered by the local administration. Now, Agra Development Authority (ADA),   (AMC) and   (AVP) have been tasked with building toilets in these schools.
 
 
  According to officials of the Basic Education department, there are 135 primary schools (which have classes I to V) and 131 upper primary schools (with classes VI to VIII) in 100 municipal wards of the city. Out of these, many schools either don’t have a toilet or have defunct one(s). The situation is an inconvenience not only for students, but also for teachers.
  
 The principal at a primary school, who chose to remain anonymous, said, “Students sometimes have to go to the streets or rush back home to relieve themselves. Many girls do not have lunch and avoid drinking water because of the lack of a toilet in our school. Young girls wait impatiently for the school bell to ring so that they can go home. Those who are forced to attend nature’s call in the open feel humiliated.”
  
 A senior official of the basic education department, who didn’t wish to be named, said, “More than 30% primary schools in the city operate on private properties. The owners of these premises don’t allow any repair or construction work at the schools. Whenever the school authorities propose any such idea, the property owners ask them to vacate the place. There are more than three dozen schools in the city where toilets are yet to be built.”
  
 Recently, district magistrate Gaurav Dayal had asked the ADA to develop toilets in primary schools that didn’t have the amenity. But the ADA was unable to do it due the lack of funds. It has now sought the help of the AMC and the AVP for the purpose.
  
 SK Singh, chief engineer of ADA, said, “A total of 42 schools in the city were found without a toilet in their premises. In the first phase, we are going to build toilets in 21 of these schools. This will be done with the help of the AMC and the AVP. Work on it will start very soon.”
 
  Primary schools at   locality are in the worst condition. Of the 21 schools selected to be developed in the first phase, nine are from Tajganj area.
