CHANDIGARH: To combat the steep decline in the number of students attending classes over the course of many semesters in the academic session of 2017-18, the names of over 750 students from different streams and courses were struck off from the   enrolment by the management of Government College for Men, Sector 11. However, re-admissions were conducted soon after their guardians were called for a one-to-one conversation with the principal.

 According to principal B P Yadav, over 50% of the college students were missing from lectures, with many of them being absent for over ten days at a stretch. The same was monitored by the principal closely, who identified a pattern. “We noticed that most number of students were missing from the BA courses across all the three years. People have a notion that BA courses are not important enough to be studied, which is wrong,”   said.
 
 According to the compiled data shared by the college, the names of as many as 400 students from BA I, 200 from BA II and 150 students from BA III were struck off for re-admission by the end of the previous semester. “If you notice, the number of students absent from classes in the first year was double of the number of students absent from classes in second year. However, in this case a large number of students were also absent from third or final year of the course, which was alarming,” added Yadav. 
 
 Similarly, the number of student absentees from other courses like BCom, MCom, BBA, BSc and   among others were also calculated. However, their numbers was lower in comparison to the BA absentees. For example in BSc I, the names of 12 students were struck off from medical, 31 from non-medical, five from biotechnology and seven from microbiology and so on.
 
 To shortlist the absentees, a standard procedure was followed. Students, who were absent from any lecture consistently for over ten days, were removed from the enrolment list. “We have a strength of over 5,000 in this college, which means less than 2,500 students were regular with their lectures then,” said Yadav.
 
 However, the re-admissions were conducted soon after formal letters were written to the parents or the local guardians of the students, who were called for a one-to-one conversation with the principal. “We thought we cannot let it go on like this. Hence, we decided to take the drastic step and call the parents, who were so surprised to know about the whereabouts of their children,” Yadav added.
 
 
