Indore: Even after more than a month of its completion, the three new multi-level parking buildings constructed in east part of the city by Indore Municipal Corporation (IMC), are yet to be made open for public use. The buildings are located nearby Raghunath Petrol Pump, Marriott Hotel and Satya Sai square respectively and lifts have also been installed in them.  Civic body officials said that the project is being delayed because the construction agency has not finalised the facility for operation. “Once the agency finalises their operation, the new parking facilities would be opened for public,” said IMC traffic and transportation department in charge Dilip Sharma. Unlike the other multi-level parking facilities, the new buildings have lifts to take vehicles to different floors for parking. This is not for the first when this project has been delayed. Earlier, their inauguration was extended by almost six months, due to delay in installation of lifts. Parking space has always been a problem in Vijay Nagar area. There are only two known parking lots between Vijay Nagar and MR-9 squares, which are located in basement of Malhar and C21 malls.  Due to lack of proper parking space, many commuters park their vehicles on the footpath of AB Road the stretch between MR-9 and Rasoma squares. It hampers smooth flow of traffic and causes inconvenience to pedestrians. The condition at Satya Sai square is also worse due to large number of people parking their vehicles near the square affecting traffic flow towards Niranjanpur. The service road between Marriott and Sayaji hotel also remains crowded with a large number of parked vehicles throughout the day. Indore: While Indore Municipal Corporation (IMC) has erected three new multi-level parking buildings in east part of the city by spending crores of rupees, these facilities are yet to be made open for public.  The construction of these multi-level parking buildings are located near Raghunath Petrol Pump, near Marriot Hotel and near Satya Sai Square is already over and lifts have also been installed in all three of them.  Civic body officials said that the project has been delayed due to finalization of agency for operation of these three multi-level parking facilities. “Once the agency is finalized, the new parking facilities would be opened for public,” said Dilip Sharma, an MIC member and in-charge of IMC’s traffic and transportation department. He however refrained from commenting as to why it was delayed.  Unlike the other multi-level parking facilities, the new buildings have lifts to take vehicles to different floors for parking.  This is not the first when this project has been delayed. Earlier it was extended by almost six months due to delay in installation of lifts. The IMC could not float tenders for installation of lifts in a multilevel parking facility located near Raghunath Petrol Pump, while work on the other two facilities has been completed.  Parking space has always been a problem in Vijay Nagar area. There are only two known parking spaces between Vijay Nagar square and MR-9 square, which are located in basement of Malhar and C21 malls.  Due to lack of proper parking space, many commuters park their vehicles on the footpath of AB Road on the stretch between MR-9 square and Rasoma square. Which hampers smooth flow of traffic and causes inconvenience to pedestrians. The condition at Satya Sai square is also worse due to large number of people parking their vehicles near the square affecting traffic flow towards Niranjanpur. Similarly, the service road between Marriot and Sayaji hotel also remains crowded with a large number of parked vehicles throughout the day as people visiting these hotels prefer to keep their vehicles on the road.