BENGALURU: Residents living around the four-lane stretch of   near   had managed to get the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) to approve a skywalk after a relentless campaign, but the impending assembly election has now put a brake on the work.

 The skywalk was to come up between the Akme Harmony Apartments and the   on the Outer Ring Road (ORR), and the work had begun on a design, build, finance, operate and transfer (DBFOT) model. The BBMP does not have to invest any money.
 
 On Friday, an election squad comprising officials from the BBMP stopped the work. “Why must they compromise on pedestrian safety for the sake of elections?” asked members of Bellandur Jotege, a Residents Welfare Association (RWA). 
 
 The BBMP had called for tenders on January 17 and the BBMP council gave approval for the work on March 13. An agency called Design 55 Advertising LLP was awarded the project. The ground-breaking ceremony was done by the BBMP on March 19. 
 
 Sources said “the work order was pending as the bank guarantee got delayed” though the final design of the project was approved before the code of conduct came into force.
 
 However, the letter of understanding between the BBMP and Design 55, which is a requirement for the project to take off, had not been signed before March 27—the day the poll code came into effect—which means the work cannot be carried out until May 15. Also, as per the rules, a bank guarantee from the contractor is a must for the BBMP to issue the work order. 
 
 BBMP engineers told TOI that the contractor submitted the guarantee documents only on April 5, by which time the poll code was already in place.
 
 The RWA, while pointing out that the road is extremely dangerous for pedestrians as it neither has speed-breakers nor a zebra crossing, has sought that the work start immediately. 
 
 On November 19, 2017, Sanjay Giri, 19, had died while crossing the road. Weeks after that, TOI had reported in January 2018 that the situation remained unchanged, after which mayor Sampath Raj, who is now contesting from  , visited the spot. Following a series of inspections thereafter, BBMP finally gave its nod for the project and floated the tender.
 
 “Crossing the road at any time of the day is difficult. Why should this work be stopped because of polls? If delayed further, we’ll only see more accidents,” said Kishori Mudaliar of Bellanduru Jotege.
 
 Will BBMP write to EC?
 
 “If it’s an emergency work, we’ve to write to the   explaining the situation. The work order can be issued in case of essential work. The ORR stretch has been an accident-prone area. I shall look into the files pertaining to the work immediately,” a BBMP officer overseeing the project said.
 
 
