Keyboard programmer and music producer   is a popular name in the music circles of the South film industry, especially having worked in close to 450 films in three languages including hits such as Yatrakarude Sradhakku, Dadasahib, 4 the People and most recently Vikram Vedha. However, it has taken him close to 26 years since he ventured into music to make his debut as a composer.

 The 43-year-old and 26-year-old   are all set to debut as music directors with filmmaker Joshy Thomas’ campus film  , and the duo say they couldn’t have chosen a “better project as their first step to composing”.
 
 The journey for the duo to their debut film though began almost eight years ago. Sandeep, who is also a session guitarist, says, “After my Class X, I wanted to be a professional guitarist and that’s how I approached Ashwin. He took me under his wings and from then on, we have been collaborating.”
 
 Through one of their projects, the VK Prakash directorial Rockstar, they met singer  . “He had sung in the film and later became a mutual friend. He is also acting in Naam and was the one who introduced us to the film’s director,” says Sandeep.
 
 Once they heard the theme of the movie, it presented “a golden opportunity”, says Ashwin, who has worked with several music directors including Johnson, Berny-Ignatius duo, Gopi Sundar and Bijibal. “Ever since I programmed for Lajjavathiye in 2004, I had been getting film offers. However, I was comfortable where I was and didn’t want to take a risk at that point of my career. This project though had all the right elements for both of us to step out of our comfort zones and do something very creative,” he says. “Also, Joshy was very supportive and gave us all the freedom.”
 
 Sandeep adds that the brief given to them by Joshy was “fun and feel-good songs”. “Whenever we did make our debut as music composers, we were sure that we wanted our music to stand out from the current crowd,” he says. Ashwin chimes in, saying, “The songs of the film don’t follow the usual structure of pallavi, charanam and anu pallavi. It’s random and has an orchestra mood to it.”
 
 The duo had to initially compose three songs of the movie and a few filler songs. “Once we started working, we even developed the filler songs to full-fledged tracks. That’s how much involved we were in this project,” says Ashwin. The tracks are sung by Vijay Yesudas, Haricharan, Shabareesh Varma, Suchith, Sooraj Santhosh and Niranj.
 
 Ask the duo on why they decided to venture into music composing together and Ashwin says, “We have been working together for the past eight years and are in sync musically. Also there’s a great deal of mutual respect which makes it easier to work. Sandeep handles the strings part of the tracks while I do the programming bits.”
 
 Incidentally, Ashwin, who started his journey to music in 1992 as a drummer, and Sandeep also perform live as part of bands of musicians such as Vijay Yesudas, Siddharth Menon and Alphons Joseph. “It’s great that we could also face the audience rather than just be inside a cosy recording studio. Performing live is something we enjoy and would like to carry on. However, if we get more movie projects, we would concentrate on that area.”
 
