PUNE: When  , the chairman of the   ( ), meets with the officials of the Pune airport on Friday, he will be requested to expedite various expansion works. The airport officials especially want to stress on fast-tracking the new terminal building and other works on 15.84 acre procured from the   (IAF).

 “The top official will preside over a meeting of AAI’s western region on Friday. Once he is done with that meeting, the AAI chairman is expected to go around the Pune airport and inspect the facility thoroughly — both the airside and the city side. He will then have a meeting with the Pune airport officials,” an AAI official in Pune said.
 
 The official said work on the defence land had already begun. “The new terminal building is our top-most priority at the moment. We will request the AAI chairman to further expedite the work so that the terminal can be operational as soon as possible. Right now, the work on increasing the number of parking bays is on,” he said. There is likely to be 45% expansion in the airport’s capacity.
 
 In December 2017, the district administration had stated that the airport will get 21-acre land (adjacent to the facility) to create an additional parking area and a terminal building.
 
  The state urban development (UD) department had given its nod to consider two pieces of privately-owned land — measuring 15 acre and 6 acre — as “special case” under the Exception Plan. Both these pieces of land lie within 100 metres of the IAF station and, therefore, cannot be developed. However, with the EP status being provided, the landowners will avail of benefits such as transfer of development rights (TDR) or floor space index (FSI). These lands will be given to the IAF, and IAF’s adjacent land will be transferred to the AAI.
 
 “We are working on the 15.84 acre that has been provided to us. If the expansion work is fast-tracked, we can float tenders for the new terminal by March 2018. Once that happens, the project can be completed within three years,” another official said.
 
