CHENNAI: Senior   leader   on Wednesday expressed regrets over his social media post on Tuesday which denigrated social reformer   E V Ramasamy. In a new message on his Facebook page on Wednesday, Raja blamed his associates for uploading the post denigrating Periyar without his knowledge.

 "Views can be debated only by countering it and not through violence. I don't want to hurt anyone. Therefore, if anyone has been hurt due to the post, I really regret the action," wrote Raja.
 
 "Also damaging statues of Periyar is not acceptable to us. Only through constructive methods can we take the views of Hindus forward along with nationalism in   and spiritualism. It is time to follow the teachings of Muthu Ramalinga Thevar," Raja wrote.
 
 Sources told TOI that the BJP high command had pulled up Raja for his controversial post and it was only after that he removed the post.
 
 At the beginning of the post, Raja blames the 'admin' for uploading a post about razing of Lenin statue in Tripura and seeking to remove Periyar statues in Tamil Nadu. "The admin had uploaded the post without my knowledge and therefore it has been removed," said Raja.
 
 "BJP does not subscribe to any kind of provoking or disrespectful statements and actions of vandalism towards leaders like Periyar. We condemn those people who are indulging in such actions," BJP national general secretary P Muralidhar Rao tweeted.
 
 Raja told reporters in New Delhi on Wednesday: “I was flying from Chennai to New Delhi to attend a party meeting when the post against Periyar was uploaded by my admin. I came to know about it only when I landed in Delhi. I asked the admin to remove the post. The post has been removed. The admin has also been removed.”
 
 Opposition parties in Tamil Nadu were in no mood to withdraw their protests against him despite Raja expressing regret.
  
 “It is only due to stiff opposition from all corners that Raja expressed his regret. But let him come out and state who is the admin who uploaded the post against Periyar. He thinks he is the only person to speak for Hindus," said DMK spokesperson T K S Elangovan.
 
 Meanwhile, some DMK district secretaries staged protests in their areas against the BJP leader. In Chennai, Saidapet MLA Ma Subramanian has organised a protest. 
 
 
