BENGALURU: Prime Minister   on Monday hit out at the opposition for opposing technology in the form of Aadhaar card and Electronic Voting Machines (EVMs), and said that the   wants to promote a modern 
  by giving importance to skill development and innovation.

 Addressing BJP Yuva Morcha (Youth Wing) workers via the ' ,' the prime minister also lauded efforts of party workers in maintaining the public mood in favour of the party, despite rumours of a hung assembly in the May 12 elections in  . 
 
 "At 45 degrees temperature, I have seen the enthusiasm of people...it is rare to witness such level of enthusiasm...I can see that in Karnataka, people themselves are fighting the elections," he said.
 
 "People from all walks of the society are in the elections," he added.
 
 Modi had on Sunday addressed four rallies in poll bound Karnataka. He will be addressing three rallies in the state on Tuesday.
 
 Despite disappointing news being spread that there will be a hung assembly,   workers have played a key role in maintaining the atmosphere of enthusiasm in favour of the party, Modi said.
 
 Lauding BJP youth workers for their contribution, the senior BJP leader said, "Youth power is at the forefront whether it is online (internet), offline or mass contact. Youth are the biggest asset of BJP."
 
 "On one hand, there are parties that have lagged behind in technology. Either they cannot understand technology or are purposely spreading lies. They have opposed all developments which use technology-- EVM, Aadhaar card, mobile phone."
 
 "On the other hand, for a modern 
 , in every field of life we want to give importance to technology, be it skill development or innovation."
 
 "This the era of artificial intelligence and 
  cannot lag behind," Modi said as he appreciated Yuva Morcha workers for increasing the importance of technology within the organisation.
 
 Modi had earlier addressed party's office bearers, members of the women's wing and Kisan Morcha workers via the 'Narendra Modi' app.
 
 
