LUDHIANA: The crossing at Mint Gumri Chowk — which poses a risk of accidents to commuters — does not exist in police records. After authorities permanently closed the crossing a few months ago, it has been opened illegally by the public. “It becomes so difficult to cross this chowk. Though the traffic light is installed, it doesn’t work and there is no traffic cop deployed there for the smooth running of traffic. We sometimes have to wait too long to cross that road. This crossing was once closed, but now some people have again opened it again, which creates a huge chaos for many people,” said  , a regular commuter from the area.

 A few months ago when the crossing was sealed, commuters had to take a U-turn from Pal Chowk. The traffic was smooth then, but now the crossing is opened again, causing the same traffic jams due to heavy traffic. “It takes almost half an hour to cover a distance of 500 metres from my house. This problem is faced by all residents of the area,” said  , who lives nearby.
 
 Locals complained that the issue was already brought to the notice of the authorities, but no action has been taken. “We complained several times, as we face chaos every day, but nothing has been done to get rid of this problem. Though traffic lights are installed there, they don’t work. The crossing was sealed, but now some commuters have opened it again, which causes a lot of problems, as people come from both the sides —   and Mint Gumri Road,” said Harminder Singh.
 
 Other commuters rued that crossing the road was a big hassle, as vehicles come from all directions. “Crossing that road is a nightmare, as people coming from all sides don’t let each other pass. We have to wait for a long time to cross that street. Keeping aside our problem, sometimes ambulances too get stuck in this heavy traffic jam. Authorities should take up this issue on priority and resolve it at the earliest,” said  .
 
 Meanwhile, cops claimed the crossing was closed permanently by the municipal corporation a few months ago. Speaking to TOI, ACP   said: “The crossing was permanently closed by the Municipal Corporation around three months ago. As per our records, the crossing is permanently closed. Now, since you have brought this to our notice, we will look into the matter and action will be taken against those found violating the norms.” 
 
 
