PANAJI: The over 3,000 crowd that turned violent pelting stones and damaging vehicles had a free run on Monday as the state’s politicians asked police and the district administration not to take any action, but to wait and watch, senior government officials and police officers told TOI. While the two bridges connecting the capital city were blocked by the protesters at 11am, ministers and MLAs continued to give out instructions not to make any move unless they reach the spot, officials said.

 That it took them over 90 minutes to arrive and their attempts to pacify the protesters did not find any takers is what finally led them to move away, leaving the crowd management in the hands of the government officials.
 
 “If, only if, chief minister Manohar Parrikar was here. He would have acted quickly and dispersed the crowd,” a senior government official said.
 
 In the absence of any clear-cut instructions,   district collector Nila Mohanan was left with no choice but to hold meetings with the protesters every 30 minutes to clear the bridges, only to be assured that they will move away to Azad Maidan.
 
 If it was lack of political will, then the late arrival of Maharashtra police also added to the woes. The administration had to wait till 2.30pm when Maharashtra police reached to deploy them at the Mandovi bridges to clear the blockade.
 
 A senior officer said that they could not rope the entire Goa police force to Panaji to maintain law and order as there was a fear that the protesters may block other parts of national highway.
 
 Another senior officer said the government was sympathetic towards the protesters as they had lost their jobs and that was the reason that despite prohibitory orders in place, they were allowed to continue with their agitation.
 
 Late Monday night, director general of police Muktesh Chander in an urgent note to his police officers said the agitation is likely to continue on Tuesday. “The unlawful protesters need to be dealt with firmly. The outside force to be used judiciously and must be briefed properly. Smooth flow of traffic should be ensured.”
 
 He also said there was need to maintain vigil in all areas, so that “unlawful crowds” do not form and protesters are not able to travel towards Panaji city to “cause disruption on national highway as they did today”.
 
 He also asked the police officers to put sufficient pickets from morning at strategic locations.
 
 Meanwhile, the North Goa district magistrate, who is also the collector, has extended section 144 indefinitely. The order that prohibits assembly and gathering of five or more persons and blocking of roads or taking out processions was issued on Sunday.
 
 
