Just as voices for menstruation hygiene and awareness are gaining momentum with the campaign by team  , here’s another social media campaign spearheaded by actress   and stylist  . Called #TheRedRevolution, this one hopes to break the taboo attached to menstruation and put an end to  .
“We arrived at this idea of bringing a stop to   shaming through the process of conceptualizing this photoshoot. The makeup and look took five hours to put together, through which we got talking about the taboo attached to menstruation. We want   to no longer feel awkward when they talk about this,” says Hitha, who plans on getting people to pose wearing red makeup with #TheRedRevolution hashtag and get them talking about how periods aren’t anything to be ashamed of.
 “In the photoshoot, the tree is symbolic for tree of life, which is akin to the vagina. The red, flowing garment is symbolic of menstrual blood. This is to show that there is nothing dirty about menstruation and that it is a beautiful, natural thing that women go through every month,” says she. 
 The campaign reads: “#TheRedRevolution is a medium to counter the stigma attached to menstruation in our society, where women bear the brunt and have to face atrocities created and shaped by our society. This is a contribution to the long-standing fight against keeping this natural thing a social taboo. Women of all likes in our society face this and today, the time’s up. Let’s not hide anymore; come, speak out. Let’s unite with our stories and give a voice and strength to countless women out there facing this in silence.”
 Hitha says that over the ages and with the progress in technology and lifestyle, people have to move on from age-old taboos. “Earlier, there were certain reasons people used to practice certain ways during periods. Women wouldn’t be allowed into the kitchen because it involved a lot of physical activity and they were weaker at that time of the month. Similarly, they would sleep in a separate area because the blood was considered bad and it would stain the mattress. Today, lifestyle changes have ensured that women can do just about anything, so such practices seem obsolete. Women shouldn’t be made to feel shameful anymore. We want to create that awareness,” she signs off. 
 
