NEW DELHI: After a   following   through Tuesday night, the   of Delhi Police   the   who had looted a cash van and   its   and security guard in outer Delhi five days ago.  , the kingpin of the gang, suffered two gunshot injuries and has been admitted to hospital. 

 According to Sanjeev Yadav, DCP (Special Cell), a special team comprising ACP Akhileshwar Swaroop and inspectors P C Yadav and Sanjeev Kumar received information that Bhushan would come to Khair village in outer Delhi to meet his associate in an Eeco van bearing the registration number DL-3CCF-2417. Traps were accordingly laid in different locations in the area.
  
  
 At 5.20am on Wednesday, the car was spotted and flagged down. The driver, however, stepped on the gas and tried to escape after firing a shot.
 
  “At this, inspector Sanjeev fired a shot at the car tyre and punctured it. The driver lost control crashed the car into the road divider,” said DCP Yadav. 
 
 Bhushan got down from the car with a bag in one hand and pistol in another. Police personnel armed with Glock and MP5 firearms engaged the man, who began firing at the cops. Two shots hit constable Rambir but he was saved by his bulletproof jacket. Rambir and assistant sub-inspector Lav Kumar fired back and managed to hit Bhushan on his leg. He was soon overpowered and then taken to hospital.
 
 Some hours earlier, the police team was tipped off that the men involved in the April 26 loot of the cash van would be returning to Delhi from Haridwar on Tuesday evening. 
 
 Armed with this information, the Special Cell team succeeded in apprehending Mahabir Singh (34), Deepak (32) and Gurcharan (35) from Sector 26 of Rohini at around 7.30pm. Vikas Bhardwaj (24) was arrested later from his home. The four are residents of Narela, while Bhushan lives in Gogha Dairy area in outer Delhi.
 
 “The gang was involved in a number of cash van and ATM robberies across Delhi in the past one year,” informed DCP Yadav. Four pistols, magazine and live cartridges were seized from Bhushan. Yadav also confirmed seizure of Rs 8.2 lakh that the gang had looted and a cache of weapons. 
 
 On April 26, bike-borne robbers had attacked the cash van belonging to SIS Prosegur, a security company. As soon as the company employees had collected cash from a wine shop at Vardhman Mall in Narela, the three men on the bike had opened fired, killing the cashier and gunman. The former had 18 gunshot wounds and the latter, five. The assailants fled with Rs 12-lakh loot. Soon after double murder-cum-robbery, all units of Delhi Police were asked to track the gang.
 
 
