BHOPAL: Tragic death of four kids in Indore school bus accident put spotlight on if school buses and their condition are thoroughly checked before issuing fitness certificate. To check out if due diligence is followed at   Regional Transport Office, TOI did a reality check of a school bus, which received fitness certificate on Saturday.

 A school bus with registration number MP04PA07XX entered the RTO campus at 12:20pm. The bus owner contacted an agent, who took vehicle’s documents and completed formalities. Shortly after, the agent hopped into the bus and after seeing the condition of the bus, he gave the owner a list. The owner went out of the RTO campus with his vehicle and returned after 40 minutes with a new   camera, speed governor and few red-coloured radium stripes. The bus owner and driver fixed all the new things in the vehicle. When bus driver was asked about CCTV camera recordings, he said, “I don’t know how it works. My agent asked me to get it installed, so I did it. I bought it today and will take it out once I get the certificate.”
 
 The owner then showed how the CCTV camera was installed. The camera was not recording. It was just connected to the battery to show it in working condition. As for the speed governor, the driver said, “The governor was fixed above the engine and it was bought today. It is not connected to a speedometer.” In other words, it cannot control the speed. It was around 2 pm when driver started the bus engine to check whether it is fine or not. After few minutes, the agent approached officials, including   ( ) and got their signatures on documents. After half an hour, the bus was called for a photograph and around 3pm, the vehicle left RTO campus with a fitness certificate. Within seven working hours, over 90 vehicles are provided fitness certificate every day at Bhopal RTO. Assuming 20 are new vehicles, it means 70 old vehicles manage to get fitness clearance.
 
 A staff of just three— an RTI, a peon and a babu — doing inspection and completing formalities of a fairly big number of vehicles — indeed is a tall order.   said, “Yes, I received complaints regarding this. I will take an action against officials providing fitness certificates without doing a proper check as it put children to a grave risk.”
 
 “I also received complaints about duplicate speed governors. To stop it, the companies that install devices, will be provided trade certificate by me. We will start it within a week,” he said.
 
