KOLKATA: Tunnel boring machine ( ) seems to have caught the fancy of the occupants on either side of buildings on SN   as they have started receiving the notice of   ( ) for facilitating   engineers to carry out detailed photographic survey of the unsafe buildings along the alignment. 

 The residents, occupants and traders on either side of the road are curious about the monster called TBM — which will crawl below their building while placing segments one after another to build the entire tunnel without making any change on the road above. How big is the machine? Are we going to feel the noise and vibration on the surface? The engineers visiting the premises are facing such questions. But there is an underlying tension simmering below such curiosity. “What would be the fate of my rebuilding plan? We want to have a multi-storey building here with multi-screens. Will KMC allow it after the tunnel is constructed?” asked Santu Batabyal, manager of Elite cinema hall. He was a bit assured when he was told the tunnel will run ten-floors below the surface. 
 
 
  
 The common query faced by the engineers visiting houses is: “Can you take us to the tunnel once?”. They got visibly upset when they were told they visit the tunnel when they would ride the train. “Is there any certainty of my survival till the project’s completion?” said Ram Lakhan Singh, a resident of Futnani Chamber. He claims his stake in the project. “The tunnel is running below my house and I can’t see it. Mazak hain (Is this a joke)?” said the septuagenarian spice trader.  , a resident of an old mansion is anxious. “The house is already crumbling. You may find us under the debris after the TBM passes below.” The engineers assured him he would be shifted to a safer place when the TBM moves below his house. Vishal Lal, who owns a warehouse at an LIC-owned building, is also apprehensive. 
 
 The same building houses the iconic eatery  . “We hope metrowale take adequate measures to avoid this building from collapsing,” said Lal. KMRC officials said the durability of buildings usually go up after grouting. “Injection pressure grouting is done at ground level around the foundation during and after the tunnel passes. This yields good results in strengthening a building’s foundation,” said an engineer.
