NAGPUR: Spectators were taken on a journey of memorable hits of musician   at ‘Dhuno ki yatra’ programme organized to mark his 23rd death anniversary by Sur Sangam at Sai Sabhagruh, Shankar Nagar, on Thursday.

 The jam-packed hall saw the audience swaying in merriment, listening to their favourite tracks, as they took a trip back in time. Heads nodding with rhythm and humming of lyrics to match the artistes proved that the programme was a wholesome package of entertainment. Apart from middle aged people, many youngsters attended the show, which indicates that Burman’s music is still popular among the youth and will be passed on to future generations. 
 
 Singer   walked in the shoes of   and enthralled everyone with the rendition of ‘Tumne mujhe dekha’ from one of the top most suspense movies ‘Teesri Manzil’. With Rekha’s charm, artiste Sonali Dixit presented classical number ‘Piya Bawri’ and tabla bol ‘Taa dhik taa’, sung by musician Amar Shende, was a surprise element which received a thunderous applause. 
 
 ‘Kya yehi pyaar hai’, a duet sung by Vinaya Nandekar and Ajay Malik was soul stirring. The playlist comprised mostly romantic numbers like ‘Baahon mein chale aao’, ‘Kuchh toh log kahenge’, ‘Tere bina jeeya jaaye na’ and ‘Aaja piya tohe pyaar doon’. There were also some heart-melting ones like ‘Yaadon ki baarat’ and ‘Tujhse naraz nahi zindagi hairan hu main’.
 
 Director of Sur Sangam Surbhi Dhomne said ‘Pancham da’ brought a revolution in music industry with his remarkable innovations. The maestro was solely responsible for major change in trends of sound. He experimented by clubbing Indian instruments like santoor and tabla with western ones like guitar and saxophone. His musical ingenuity led to improvisations which started a golden era in  , she said.
 
 Surbhi too showcased her professional skills and joined Malik to present ‘Panna ki tamanna’ which was a treat to ears. 
 
 The show was intended to raise funds for education of underprivileged children belonging to Maitree Pariwar Sanstha. Running this sanstha since years, celebrity chef   was present with a bunch of 25 kids. 
 
 
