Nagpur: Acknowledging their recent achievements, the   (SJAN) felicitated city’s seven   award recipients at a function held here on Monday.

 International Master and experienced chess coach  , senior skating coach and former national champion Pravin Deshpande, veteran atyapatya official  , Indian handball team player Poonam Kadav, talented skaters Piyush Akre and disabled powerlifters Pratima Bonde and Kamlesh Lanjewar were honoured with shawl, shrifal and memento.
 
 Chairman of   Group Mohan Gaikwad was the chief guest of the function, while NMC sports committee chairman Nagesh Sahare and veteran sports organizer and Shiv Chhatrapati awardee Girish Gadge were the guests of honour.
 
 Speaking on the occasion, Gaikwad said his institution has always supported the sporting activities in the city. He also appreciated SJAN for honouring the Shiv Chhatrapati awardees.
 
 Sahare, who has been recently re-elected as the sports committee chairman, said NMC is committed for the development of city sports in the city. He urged the big industrialists to adopt one or two poor sportspersons.
 
 All the awardees expressed their happiness after receiving the state’s highest sports award.
 
 “The game of chess is in my blood. I am always ready to help the budding players. Chess has bright future and there are also job opportunities for the players nowadays,” said IM Deshmukh.
 Deshpande, who has recently appointed as the Indian skating team coach for the forthcoming Asian Games, spoke on the role of parents in the development of their wards. “Parents involvement is fine but they should not interfere too much in coaching and selection matters,” said Deshpande.
 
 International handball player Poonam said she had not expected Shiv Chhatrapati award this year. He thanked her coach Sunil Bhotmange and said she wants to represent the country in Asian Games.
 
 Similarly, young skater Piyush said, “This prestigious award will definitely encourage me in the future and I will work hard to win medals for the nation.”
 
 Ashok Patil criticized the State as well as Central government for degradation of atyapatya in the country. “Due to government’s apathy towards this sport, atyapatya is struggling for its existence,” he said.
 
 Parapower lifter Pratima said government should give special attention to para athletes.
 
 SJAN president Kishor Bagde and secretary Sandeep Dabhekar too shared the dais. Dr Ram Thakur conducted the proceedings. Former VHA secretary TN Sidhra, Raman Chaterjee, Sanjay Lokhande, Wasik Bhai of Mughals and others were present on the occasion.
 
 
