MUMBAI: The   on Tuesday summoned the biological father of a four-year-old girl to know if he is willing to drop his name from her birth record. The girl’s mother has said she had not provided his name or occupation or that she was married to him at the time of registration of the child’s birth.

 A bench of Justice Abhay Oka and Justice Pradeep Deshmukh issued the directions to the man taking note of “disputed facts arising” out of the case. 
 
 The single mother (now 23) moved the   in July 2017 seeking corrections in her daughter’s birth record. She urged for removal of father’s name and to change her status to “unmarried”. “I have never not disclosed any details about the father,” her petition said.
 
 Her petition said she was unmarried, got pregnant at 19 years when she was in HSC and delivered a baby girl in November 2014. Her petition cited the 2015 judgment of the Supreme Court that mandates authorities to issue   to children of single parent or unwed mother on the basis of an affidavit filed by them. The petition said she filed an affidavit requesting   to correct her daughter’s birth record. 
 
 However her plea was rejected and she was asked to obtain a court order.
 
 The judges pointed out that Section 15 of the Registration of Births and Deaths Act gives power to the registrar to correct or cancel any entry if it is erroneous in form or substance or has been fraudulently or wrongly made. 
 
 The BMC’s advocate said the registration form bears her signature and she had willingly given details on it. He also said a change of mind does not amount to an erroneous entry and hence cannot be deleted.
 
  The woman’s advocate, Uday Warunjikar, countered that she was in hospital and her signature was taken on a blank form.
 
 Noting that the grievance is related to the father’s name and also there is a dispute whether she is married, the judges directed that the biological father be added as a party to the petition. They directed the HC’s registry to issue him a notice to remain present in court.
 
 
