NAGPUR: The collectorate has not taken action against 12 associations, clubs, or institutions for last eight months, despite confirmed violations of  . Now, Nagpur bench of Bombay high court will decide the course of action on the basis of a report to be submitted by a three-member committee headed by amicus curiae and senior counsel   on June 7.

 In the HC’s suo motu public interest litigation (PIL) related to violations by nazul plot holders, the then collector   had submitted an affidavit confirming violation of terms by 12 out of 113 nazul plot holders, on September 26, 2017. Kurve had said the 12 associations, clubs, or institutions were utilizing nazul plots for commercial purposes, even though the lease was for sports, social, or educational purposes.
 
 RTI activist TH Naidu told TOI the collectorate should have taken action immediately after it admitted violations by the lease holders. “All 12 institutions are famous and their locations are known to all. Unfortunately, the collectorate was turning a blind eye towards the violations for years. The collectorate was supposed to take back possession of the plots, in case of continuing violations. At least, the collectorate should have taken action after its own confirmation of the violations before the HC,” he said.
 
 Bhandarkar said the committee will submit its report to the HC on or before June 6. “It was expected the collectorate would take action. Now, violations are on the court’s records, so none of the violators can be saved. The committee will suggest the money to be recovered from these violators along with nature of action. The HC will take final decision,” he said.
 
 An official from the collectorate said action will be taken as per the HC’s orders. When asked why no action was taken in eight months, the official said the case was sub-judice.
 
 The other two members of the committee are chartered accountant Surendra Durugkar, and a representative of the collectorate office.
 
 Naidu also said the HC needs to act against officials neglecting action for years. “We need to verify the collector office’s report on remaining 101 nazul plots’ holders. The report stated there were no violations by 101 lease holders,” he said.
 
 As per the collector’s report, 12 associations/clubs/institutions that violating the norms are United For Church Hislop College, Vidarbha Hindi Sahitya Sammelan, Vidarbha Hindi Sahitya Sangh, Charkha Sangh Public Trust Ansari Secretary, Vidarbha Cricket Association (VCA), Young Men's Christian Association (YMCA), Jawahar Vidyarthi Gruh, Officers’ Club Civil Lines, Ladies Club, CP Club, Bhagini Mandal and Andhra Association.
 
 
