PATNA: The film lovers of the state capital could see ‘Padmaavat’ amid heavy police deployment even inside the two cinema halls which started screening the movie only on Monday. Even the audiences were allowed to enter inside the halls only after multiple layers of security check. The number of private security personnel deployed at the halls were also much higher than on normal days.

 The film was released across the country on Friday last, but could not be screened in Patna following protests from Shree Karni Sena. 
 
 Fire tenders and riot control vehicles were kept on standby near the two cinema halls fearing vandalism and arson. Police personnel were also deployed on the roads leading to the halls. The one multiplex with four screens is running 16 shows from 9.30am while another with two screens is running the film in evening and night show only.
 
 The cineplex ran only six show on first day and will increase it to nine from Tuesday. The multiplex’s another branch at Muzaffarpur also started screening the movie from Monday.
 
 Tight security arrangements were made after three petrol bombs (Molotov cocktail) were hurled on Sunday on a cinema hall premises at Motijheel under the Town police station area in Muzaffarpur on the first day of its screening. Bihar has around 250 cinema halls with 14 in Patna, but the  ,   and   starrer was being screened hardly in 30 halls till Monday.
 
 
 
 Upendra Prasad, special magistrate deployed at the multiplex, said more than six magistrates were deputed between SAI Temple and Kurji Mor to keep vigil around the cinema hall. “We are here from 7am and will remain till the last employee leaves after night show. Police deployment will remain there till further orders,” he said.
 
  (law and order) Shibli Nomani, who reviewed security arrangements in the area surrounding the mall, said, “Station house officers (SHO) of five different police stations have been deployed to look after the security arrangements at different locations.”
 
 Nomani also said continuous patrolling was being conducted and police personnel were deployed even in civvies in the areas where the movie was screened.
 
 “No advertisement about screening from Monday was made fearing protests. As a result, the audience turnout in the first few shows was less than the seat capacity. Situation is expected to become normal from Tuesday,” multiplex manager Abhishek Nirala said adding they started screening the movie only after reviewing the situation in other towns. 
 
 Cineplex manager Sharad Gupta also said they decided to wait for reactions at other places where the movie was shown before screening it in Patna.
 
 “Several cinema halls in Bihar will start screening the film in a day or two and the situation will be normal,” Gupta said.
 
 Ritu Singh, who had reached the multiplex to watch the movie in the morning show said she was eager to see it due to its star cast. However, Utkarsh Kumar said the nationwide controversy increased his curiosity in the movie.
 
 
