By:   

 
 CHENNAI: “There is going to be a vacuum in the police when he leaves,” a constable at the firing range in   says. “But, someone will probably fill it,” he adds as a matter of fact. R P Ilango, 58, will retire as DSP from the school on Saturday, a place where he spent almost his entire career.
 
 But, Ilango willbe remembered for much more. All medals that the state police bagged in shooting competitions across the country in the past two decades, they owe it to him. He is also the only police officer in the country who is a qualifiedjudge and coach certified by the International Shooting Sports Federation (ISSF) and was a jury member in the Commonwealth Games, Delhi in 2010.
 
 
 Until1991, it was a practice for policemen not to carry service weapons while on duty and were ill-trained in handling them.
 
 
 When DGP (retd) K Vijay Kumar, then IGP, formed the Special Security Group (SSG) in 1991, emphasis was given to train officers and men in reflex shooting — training policemen to use weapons as a part of the body.   chose Ilango to impart the training. “He can make an elephant dance, to draw an analogy. Such is his skill that he can make a very average shooter into a medal winner,” ADGP Sylendra Babusaid.
 
 
 Ilango joined the department as a sub-inspector in 1987. From 1991, until his retirement, Ilango would go on to win every honour that was up for grabs in the state and national level competitions.
 
 
 He has been the captain, coach and person in-charge of the   since1993. “The thing is,” Ilango says, “I knew shooting and was good at it even before I joined the police.” This, he attributes to his time with the NCC at school and college.
 
 
 Ilango had also served as the personal security officer of J   from 1996 until the end of 2000. He shot to pieces a pod kept on a cop’s head. This demo, made in front of Jayalalithaa, helped him land thejob. On theeve of his retirement, Ilango oversaw his wards training at the air rifle range in thecommando school, a routine as much his identity as his handlebar moustache.
 
 
