KOCHI: At a time when their once oppressed voices and multiple layers of identities are slowly but surely gaining acceptance in the society, transgender community members in the state have one more reason to smile.   Shetty, a transgender activist and entrepreneur in Kerala, has become the first to get an artisan ID card in the community.

 “Tripthi is the first transgender to register under the Handicrafts Development Corporation of Kerala government and the first to receive the artisan ID. She is an excellent artist and craft maker and we were convinced that she is a deserving candidate. Above all it is talent and hard work that matters,” said Pooja Venugopal, assistant director, office of the development commissioner (Handicrafts), Thiruvanthapuram.
 
 Tripthi who received the ID card on Thursday after a three-month wait was on cloud nine when she finally got to see it.
 
 “It was artist Sindhu Divakaran who suggested me to get an artisan card. So, I applied for it three months ago. The card was issued on December 7. Though I was informed that my card has already been dispatched there was an unusual delay. This led to a tense situation as it was informed that it would have been lost. But on Wednesday, I got a call from the office of the development commissioner (handicrafts) saying that they have finally found my card,” said Tripthi.
 
 “I view it as a New Year gift for me and my entire community from the Government of India. Now, I can participate in all exhibitions conducted in the country. Using this card I can access a variety of handicraft schemes for marketing credit and insurance. Above all it also signals a positive sign for artisans from my community,” said an elated Tripthi, who wishes to start a full-fledged handicraft business.
 
 It was Dr   at Ernakulam   introduced Tripthi to jewellery making and handicrafts.
 
 “Dr Annie treated me while I was hospitalized following an attack from two men. She played a significant role in helping me lead a decent life. I am grateful to her for everything she had done to make me what I am today,” she said.
 
 
 Her journey and transition from the   native Kiran, who was confused about his identity, to   as the first transgender entrepreneur was a painstaking one.
 
 
 “All my life my dream was to live as a woman. In 2006, I went to Chennai and embraced the hijra culture. My aim was to and make money and undergo sex reassignment surgery. I had only two choices — sex trade and begging. I chose the latter,” said Tripti.
 
 
