Bengaluru:   smiled when asked about Indian shuttlers’ dominating performance over Malaysia at the Gold Coast Commonwealth Games. “To be honest, I was not surprised,” the former world No. 1 said.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 “I’ve been following India’s progress for the last 5-6 years. It has been better than Malaysia’s which is why they beat us (at CWG). It's been a great year for Indian  . Players like K Srikanth and PV Sindhu are doing so well… our doubles players are good but we are still searching for our next Lee Chong Wei,” Roslin said.
 
 
 
 
 
 The 42-year-old, who came agonizingly close to facing Pullela Gopichand in the 2001 All England Open Championships, had nothing but praise for Srikanth’s meteoric rise, who was briefly ranked world No. 1 last week. “His game is exceptional, he has a strong foundation and great fitness,” Roslin said of the 2018 CWG silver medallist.
 
 “He has a very cool temperament, which is very important for someone playing at that level. Srikanth knows how to handle pressure situations — his confidence grew after he beat big players, especially Lin Dan in China (2014 China Open). That was the turning point for him,” he added.
 
 Roslin and 2009 World Championship men’s doubles bronze medalist   are in the city to run a 40-day summer camp at the Karnataka Badminton Association here. In a freewheeling chat, Roslin and Latif spoke about Malaysian legend Lee Chong Wei’s legacy, Badminton World Federation’s (BWF) new rules and the waning support for private academies back home.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Roslin: There are so many new laws now… like there is no freedom. Stars such as Lin Dan and Lee Chong-Wei have blasted the new service rule. I feel the BWF is killing badminton. They want it to be like tennis. For example, revising the points format from 15 to 21 and now to 11. I do not agree with this.
 
 
 
 
 Roslin: Maybe for them, yes. It’s good for their Olympic ambitions, an advantage. But I do not agree with the service rule.
 
 
 
 
 Roslin: It's not as tough as before. Now, players’ rankings are constantly changing. Earlier, you had to win, beat higher-ranked opponents to earn more ranking points. Now, you play more tournaments, you get more points. You may not win tournaments, but you can do enough to be world No. 1.
 
 
 
 
 Latif: It is good for a new player, he or she can compete with a top star. During Roslin’s time, only the top-30 or 32 could compete in a Super Series. The rest who were ranked in the 70s and 80s never got a chance.
 
 
 
 
 Roslin: He’s phenomenal. In the team event, he was not 100%, due to which we had to settle for silver. But in the individual category, he was totally different. He was hungry to win, like a lion. That’s the Lee Chong-Wei we know.
 
 
 
 Roslin: It is difficult to say. He will have tough competition from many players, young and experienced such as Kento Momota and Viktor Axelsen.
 
 At Gold Coast, two Malaysian coaches Tan Kim Her and Wong Tat Meng took India and Scotland respectively to podium finishes…
 
 Latif: When India beat Malaysia (mixed team final), this topic was hot news in our country. Why do our coaches leave our players, go to other countries and train them to beat us? The problem is our association, not the coaches.
 
 
 
 
 Roslin: It has to be when I became the world No. 1. At the 2001 All England, which Gopichand won, I lost a two-hour marathon (15-point) semifinal against China's Chen Hong. At one point, I was leading 14-10, ready to win. But I don’t have any regrets. Because right after All England, I went to on to seal back-to-back wins at the Swiss Open and the Japan Open. I became the world No. 1. God is fair.
 
 
 
 
 Latif: We run our own academy with no support from the government, the private sector or the national association. Our government only supports association, and not private clubs. It's sad, but that's the reality. Here, we were impressed with the facilities available at the KBA and the Prakash Padukone Badminton Academy, ideal for the development of a player.
 
 
