A team comprising 100 teachers has ‘energised’ state board  . In an interview,  , head of the syllabus and textbook revision committee, tells TOI how they can help students prepare better for any exam

 
 
 We took up this task at a critical period when a lot of debates were going on about TN’s educational quality, in the backdrop of national-level exams including NEET. From the start, we were clear that we can’t draft any syllabus or write textbooks for the sake of competitive exams. We wanted to provide textbooks at a conceptual level in a student-friendly language. As a byproduct, by understanding these concepts children are likely to do well in any exam. 
 
 
 
 Information and Communication Technology (ICT) corner and career guidance section were the additions. By introducing   corners, we have broken the myth that textbooks can no longer be the ultimate source of knowledge. We have shown they can be the window to a world of wisdom. The latter section was based on a request by mail from a Chennai college student. 
 
 
 
 The core content has increased by only 20% compared to the old textbooks. The new features have added value. We are not in an isolated society. When they are doing a lot at the national level, reducing content will affect students. Reducing workload is a collective effort to be taken at the national level which will duly reflect in our state in future. 
 
 Alongside new syllabus and textbooks, are there going to be any changes in teaching and evaluation methods? 
 
 Teachers should be put in more efforts. We have come out with a teachers’ guide which has examples of how to introduce a topic and gain students’ attention within the first 10 minutes of a class. As far as evaluation is concerned, internationally renowned experts suggest that any evaluation reform should be implemented gradually. The question paper should be designed in such a way that everyone should pass but scoring a centum should be tough. 
 
 
 
 Technology is the future and we can’t miss the bus. But students will not be forced to completely depend on it as they will only add value. The main focus has been on the book and there will be no issues if students stick to it. 
 
 
 
 To a major extent, yes. There is still scope for revision in the next edition, though. 
 
 
