AHMEDABAD: In the recent past, the country has seen a slew of new ideas — demonetization, GST, Accessible India, Start-up India, Stand Up India, Digital India and so on. But can only ideas transform the country and lay foundation stone for greatness?

 Professor Pradip  , former director of IIM Ahmedabad, who has also served on a the boards of a number of corporate houses and government bodies, said today’s India needs effective implementation of ideas as much as she requires new ideas and innovations. “What we need is an effective management system. A number of countries are attracted to the concept of ‘New Public Management’ – professional, dedicated, accountable management of government bodies – as the way forward for excellence in governance,” he said.
 
 Khandwalla was speaking at the launch of his book ‘Fast Forward toward Civilizational Greatness: Agenda for India’ at Ahmedabad Managment Association (AMA) on Saturday. The book was launched by O P Kohli, governor of Gujarat, in the presence of AMA president Rajiv Mehta and others.
 
 Khandwalla said he started on the idea with one question in mind - what makes a nation great and how can the nation achieve greatness. “For me, it gets defined by three factors - goodness or humaneness of the society, widespread innovation and performance excellence. If we think in the manner of management theories, countries can be considered huge organizational set-ups. Citizens can be motivated to strive for excellence for its own sake,” he said.
 
 The book stresses on process that start right from the childhood education. Khandwalla said we need widespread innovation to educate more than 20 crore children in government schools to improve our standards. He gave examples of good practices in India and abroad in the field so that the movers and shakers with social conscience can be groomed. He added that if democracy is not institutionalized, it is driven by two factors - power and money.
 
 “We also have to stress on cooperation. While the government has a widespread network, it lacks grassroots understanding and professional expertise. While NGOs have both, they lack resources. While innovators and enterprises have some of these factors, they need support from both to grow,” said Khandwalla.
 
 The book also discusses issues such as self-sustaining communities, exemplary social enterprises, comparison of India vis-a-vis China and the US and mission-charged government bodies of India.
 
 
