GURUGRAM:  , the   general secretary who was taken into police custody after last week’s violent protests against Padmaavat was rushed to the emergency ward of Gurugram’s Civil hospital late on Sunday night after he complained of chest pain.

 
 
 
 The Haryana   on Monday, meanwhile, confirmed the acceptance of Amu’s resignation as its chief spokesperson. Haryana BJP president   did not specify the date when the resignation was accepted but said further action against Amu was under way. “We have referred his case to the disciplinary committee headed by former Haryana BJP chief Atam Parkash Manchanda. Adequate action will follow,”   said.
 
 On Monday morning, police transferred Amu to PGI Rohtak after he was referred by doctors to a “higher centre” for an angiogram. Police kept him under strict vigil, taking every measure to ensure he was cut off from the media and those claiming to be his family members. 
 
 Amu, who had been put under preventive detention, was to be taken under production warrant by the police on Monday for further interrogation in connection with the Karni Sena violence in Bhondsi in which a roadways bus was torched and a school bus carrying children attacked. The period of Amu’s preventive detention has now been extended up to February 2 on the orders of DCP (HQ) Deepak Gahlawat.
 
 
 
 
 Civil hospital authorities said Amu was brought in late Sunday night after complaining of chest pain and was examined by the attending physician. He also complained of weakness and high blood pressure, said principal medical officer (PMO) Bhram Deep Sandhu. Since Monday morning, Amu was kept in the ICU and an ECG was performed on him. “Since we could not perform an angiogram here, we referred him to a higher centre,” said Sandhu. Doctors said a higher centre meant either Safdarjung Hospital, Delhi, or PGI Rohtak but the police officials took the decision to take Amu to Rohtak.
 
 According to sources, the ECG did not show any abnormalities but Amu continued to complain of chest pain and high blood pressure. “We had kept him under observation. Since his condition did not improve, we had to transfer him,” said Sandhu.
 
 Police set up a cordon outside the ICU of General Hospital where Amu was being kept. The ICU, located in the hospital’s first floor, is adjacent to the gynaecology ward. Pregnant women and mothers with newborn children were in for a surprise as they saw a group of gun-wielding men on reaching the hospital. 
 
 The cops were cautious to not expose Amu to the media. No member of the press or those claiming to be Amu’s family was allowed to visit him and the door of the ICU was shut. 
 
 A cordon of cops whisked Amu into a police van after exiting the hospital through the back gate and headed for PGI Rohtak. Two men who identified as Amu’s kin said they had tried to send in food and clothes but cops did not accept it.
 
 
