Nagpur: After a prolonged gap, civic body has started   in the city. Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) is carrying out Animal Birth Control (ABC) operations in association with NGOs.

 The sterilization process started from Mangalwari zone over a week back. The first ABC centre has been set-up at the animal shelter run by Nagpur SPCA at Friends Colony, one of the organizations that have tied-up with NMC. “We are performing operations ward-wise. The target is to operate on 70% of strays in a defined area within a specific time limit,” said NMC veterinary officer Dr Gajendra Mahalle.
 
 He added that after operations in four wards of Mangalwari zone were completed, NMC staffers would conduct a survey to check if targeted dogs were sterilized. “After this, operations will commence in Dharampeth zone. The centre will remain the same,” added Mahalle.
 
 NMC plans to set-up four ABC centres in initial phase. “One centre will be at Bhandewadi. We are also considering starting additional centres in corporation schools that are closed,” said Mahalle.
 
 Apart from Nagpur SPCA, Satara based NGO Vets for Animals (VFA) will also carry out sterilization. Both NGOs were selected after NMC had called for an Expression of Interest (EoI). 
 
 Animal activists, on the other hand, fear taxpayers’ money would again go waste if the standard operating procedures laid down by the Animal Welfare Board of India are not followed. “There were 2-3 cases of stitches coming off pre-maturely. NMC needs to ensure only a well-trained doctor performs operations. It should also raise public awareness so residents make sure dogs of their areas are sterilized,” said activist Reena Singh. 
 
 Rather than catch dogs randomly, NMC should follow a proper schedule with daily targets, said Smita Mire, founder of Save Speechless Organisation (SSO). “People should be encouraged to bring strays of their areas for getting operated,” she said. Activist Ankita Shah said, “As per AWBI norms, it is mandatory to conduct a census to know the accurate dog population before starting ABC.”
 
 As reported by TOI earlier, VFA carried out a smart survey through a mobile application to know exact dog population of the city. Officials said the survey report was almost ready and would be released soon. 
 
 
