KOLKATA: Narendra Modi calls the mandate against the Left in Tripura as an "outpouring of public anger",   calls it "CPM's self-destruction" and the   politburo concedes defeat to the might of money power among others. What's common to all three observations is isolation that the party has to overcome before it fine tunes its electoral tactic. 

 Mamata went a step forward to accuse CPM of keeping mum on the alleged mischief with the EVMs. "There are some issues with the EVMs. But CPM didn't lodge a complaint with the Election Commission. Were they scared? Did   browbeat them? I don't know the reason but the fact remains that they have pathetically surrendered to BJP," the   chief said. 
 
 The Left setback in Tripura has come as a blow to the Bengal CPM two days before the party's state conference begins in Kolkata on Monday. The poor show also calls into question the validity of the hair-splitting debate between the CPM's Bengal line and Kerala line because the party can no longer be a chooser when it comes to forging alliance with others.
 
 Mamata Banerjee whose party also drew a scratch in the Tripura polls has blamed both Left and   for the BJP's massive win. "BJP may be blowing it up as a historic win but I would call it the CPM's surrender, its self-destruction. How could Meghalaya sustain had there been a BJP wave in the northeast?" she said. The Trinamool chief also pointed fingers at Congress. "I had told   to fight the polls with the Hills parties. He didn't accept my proposal." The CM isn't in a mood to give much importance to the Tripura polls. "Tripura is a small state having a population even less than Howrah. BJP is playing it big because the party is going to lose the assembly elections in Rajasthan, Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh and finally in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls," she said.
 
 Pushed to the wall, Bengal CPM leaders want to pave its way by fighting both BJP and Trinamool though the party in its draft political-organisational report admits the rise of BJP in the state. The draft report makes a long list of agitations built from the grassroots but very few had any public impact. 
 
 Even as Left intellectuals from Irfan Habib to Prabhat Patnaik keep on harping on the need of all secular forces to come together against the BJP's "fascistic onslaught", the diminishing Left are now busy fighting the political isolation they have been thrust into.
 
