PALWAL: A 45-year-old former Army “lieutenant” staged a macabre dance of death on the roads of Palwal in the early hours of Tuesday, randomly picking his victims and bludgeoning them with an iron rod. Six innocent people lay dead in the orgy of violence that went unstopped for over an hour before the suspect, Naresh Dhankar, who appears to have a history of anti-social behaviour, was overpowered and almost beaten to death.

  
  
 Among Dhankar’s victims were a pregnant woman — his first victim, whom he killed by sneaking into a city hospital around 2.45am — four security guards and a vagabond. None of the dead were apparently known to the killer.
 
 They were attacked one by one, as Dhankar went in search of more victims after each murder.
 
  By the time cops caught up with Dhankar around 4am, the city was on red alert to capture the serial killer who had been identified in CCTV footage from the hospital. Dhankar was thrashed by the public and police, leading to a brain haemorrhage. He is battling for life at Delhi’s Safdarjung hospital.
 
 The cops are unclear about the motive or the trigger for the bloodbath. They suspect he was mentally unstable and depressed, possibly because of marital discord. It all started with Dhankar arrived at   hospital armed with a rod. He went to the first floor — as if looking for someone — and attacked the woman sleeping on the bench. He first woke her up by removing her quilt and then smashed her face and head with the rod. The woman,  , died on the spot.
 
 CCTV footage shows Dhankar entering the hospital’s main door at 2.37am.
 
 
 
 He then loiters around with a rod in his hand. He is seen at different places in the hospital till 2.39am. On his way out, Dhankar was confronted by some people and the hospital guard so he hid himself in the bathroom for a few minutes. He soon stormed out, flashing the rod and threatening to attack anyone if he was stopped.
 
 Dhankar then walked towards Moti Colony park and attacked a guard, later identified as Munshiram. Another guard, Sitaram, deployed at a nearby scrap market, was sitting in his chair and reading a newspaper when Dhankar hit him on the head. Sitaram fell on a coal stove burning next to him and died. The killer then proceeded towards Sohna Road where he attacked Subhash, a guard at the bus stop. From there, he took the road leading to Rasoolpur chowk and attacked a vagabond walking on the road. He then targeted his sixth victim, Khemchand, near the chowk.
 
  After the sixth killing, Dhankar walked to his in-laws’ house in   nearby. There, he called out to his estranged wife and son. When nobody responded, he started kicking the door. Hearing the ruckus, one of his wife’s relatives,  , came out of an adjacent house and confronted him. This was around 3.45am, a full hour after the first killing.
 
 Dhankar attacked him as well but Ashish managed to run away and lock himself in his house. By this time, almost the entire city police force was out looking for Dhankar. Outside the hospital, Manshiram’s body was the first to be discovered. It was found near Rasoolpur chowk by an SHO who was heading to the hospital to investigate the first murder. In no time, the murder count rose from two to six as police kept getting calls about attacks by a rod-wielding man. The CCTV footage and grabs of the suspect were circulated amongst cops on Whatsapp and a red alerted sounded in the city by 3.30am. Around 4am, cops received aPCR call about a man chasing another person on the road in the Camp area in Adarsh colony. Simultaneously, Ashish, the man who was attacked, too, called up the police.
 
 Cornered in a lane, Dhankar attacked the cops but was soon overpowered and thrashed. Palwal SP   said initial enquiry suggests that he was mentally unstable and had selected his victims at random. “We have recovered an identity card from him which suggests he is a retired Army man. ” Gajraj said.
 
