KOCHI: A fire broke out at an eatery in   –   -- on Monday evening, raising questions about safety measures in city shops.

 Three neighbouring shops were also damaged by the fire as the workers had no clue as to how to deal with the situation. Three employees from Tamil Nadu were working at the eatery when the fire broke out. They tried to douse the flames in a pan with water, which led to a big blaze. Fire officials, who managed to avert a major disaster, suspect a gas leak led to the fire.
 
 Eatery catches fire as untrained staff fuel blaze due to ignorance
 
 An eatery in Palarivattom caught fire around 4pm on Monday thanks to the ignorance of its staff who had no basic idea about fire safety measures. Fire broke out at Sree Aryas tiffin box in Palarivattom following a possible gas leak. Though there were no causalities, three shops functioning adjacent to the eatery were damaged. Three employees from Tamil Nadu were working at the eatery when the incident happened.
 
 “Gas, which leaked from an almost-empty commercial cylinder (19.6kg), led to the fire. The workers were heating oil in a pan when it caught fire. They tried to douse the flames by pouring water, they had no idea about the density difference and what they had done. Since it was hot, the oil splattered out and gave rise to abig blaze,” said A Unnikrishnan, an officer from   fire station, who was part of the firefighting team.
 
 
 He said the eatery staffers did not know the simple methods they could have used to douse the fire and so the entire room was gutted. “The workers rushed out as the fire raged on. There were six commercial LPG cylinders at the eatery and only one of them was fully loaded,” he said. All utensils kept in the pantry, walls and the ceiling were damaged. The nameboards, glass doors and generators of adjacent shops were also damaged. The insulation on the cable lines drawn above the building was burned and plastic items were found melted inside the room.
 
 The fire force team averted a tragedy as their personnel shifted cylinder from the building soon after the fire began. Three cylinders were empty and two cylinders were half-empty. One of them had a visible crack on the body.
 
 The team said that the eatery was not insured since it had started recently. “Our firemen risked lives to shift the cylinders from the eatery. If the workers had covered the pan with a wet cloth and closed the regulator of the cylinder, the fire would not have happened. Since all hotel workers are either from north India or from Tamil Nadu, they are not trained. This is a matter of concern,” Unnikrishnan said.
 
 Corporation officials said they had given permission to run the eatery in a 200 sq ft room in Kunnathu building, owned by   who runs a photostat shop adjacent to the eatery. “I was inside my café when I saw the workers rushing out. They told me about the kitchen fire. We all rushed out of the building and called the fire officials. They doused the fire and shifted the cylinders,” said Kumar.
 
