Nagpur: Municipal commissioner Ashwin Mudgal on Friday presented the Nagpur Municipal Corporation’s (NMC) budget of Rs2,048.53 crore for 2018-19. He also presented the revised budget of Rs1,997.33 crore for the current fiscal (2017-18) — a cut of 12.08% in the Rs2,271.97 crore presented by the standing committee last year.  The civic chief has kept all taxes untouched. It means there will be no additional burden on the common man. But Mudgal has failed to come up with new revenue sources which means the civic body will remain cash strapped. Mudgal’s budget, which appeared quite realistic, will come into effect from April 1. Standing committee chairman Virendra Kukreja will present his budget, probably in May or later, that will supersede Mudgal’s budget.  Normally, the standing committee chairman’s budget is the same as the one presented by the civic chief but includes some new projects and a hike in the revenue and expenditure. Stressing the need for a financial discipline, Mudgal emphasized on the completion of ongoing and proposed projects, increase in revenue from available sources and reducing high expenditure. He announced a few new projects like the installation of 100 water ATMs, a commercial/hawker complex and parking plaza at Kadbi Chowk, Itwari. As per Mudgal’s budget, the NMC will earn a revenue of Rs2,048.53 crore in the next 12 months, which is Rs223.44 crore less than that projected by the standing committee last year. In comparison to the current fiscal, it is a hike of just Rs51.20 crore.  “The revenue up to February end was Rs1,355 crore. Another Rs642.33 crore, which includes grants from the state government, is expected in the next 22 days, taking the total to Rs1,997.33 crore,” said Mudgal. The civic chief added that revenue targets from property tax and other heads could not be met this fiscal. “We need to chalk out a time-bound programme to achieve targets set from available revenue sources in the next fiscal,” said Mudgal. Despite being a local self governing body, the NMC will continue to depend majorly on the central and state government. 56.61% of the revenue will come from government grants (Rs1,009.72 crore) and loan (Rs150 crore). Also, 53% revenue will be spent on establishment, administrative expenses, repayment of loans, operation and maintenance etc leaving 47% for developmental works and projects. Mudgal did not budget for revenue from entertainment tax and professional tax stating it will be worked out when the state will approve the proposals. He also did not mention about taking over NIT’s areas as proposed by the state. The civic chief said the actual works to transform the city into a Smart City will begin from next fiscal. “The Rs520 crore Smart and Safe City project in which CCTVs are being installed is nearing completion. The area-based development project proposed in East Nagpur will start soon with the construction of affordable housing and road works. Provision of funds have been made for projects under AMRUT, Swachh Bharat Mission, Prime Minister Awas Yojana etc,” he said. Mudgal proposed to give assistance of Rs151 crore to NESL, the special purpose vehicle operating and maintaining water works. Water works will incur a loss of Rs60.53 crore.  Also, he has proposed to give grants of Rs100 crore for the city transport committee for operation and maintenance of buses. It effectively means both the departments will not be earning any revenue. For the first time, the civic chief has proposed to give cash to the Metro Rail project. “NMC is supposed to contribute 5% (Rs434 crore) in the project. The total amount, excluding Rs73 crore, will be adjusted as against land allotted to Mahametro. Rs35 crore will be disbursed in 2018-19 and the remaining in 2019-20,” said Mudgal. Mudgal’s budget a has meagre allocation of Rs1.83 crore funds for the welfare and development of women. For sports, the allocation is Rs3.82 crore. Time and again the state government has pointed out that it is too less. For road safety, Mudgal has proposed to repair dividers, footpaths, signage and implementation of the integrated junction/squares road development project. He also proposed to add 31 women-special buses, 25 bio-gas and 70 electric-run buses in the existing fleet, taking the total number of city buses to 567 from 487. Mudgal also wants to link city buses’ ticketing system to the Metro Rail’s common mobility card. Mudgal also proposed the implementation of the Rs300 crore cement concrete road project phase-III and completion of Rs324 crore phase-II and Rs123 crore- phase-I. Mudgal said NMC will modernize health/medical facilities in association with Tata Trust. “Centralized pathology will be developed at Sadar and warehouse at Mahal. 26 urban health centres will be developed of which 8 in phase-I, 10 in phase-II and remaining in phase-III,” he said.