LUCKNOW: Even as BSP supremo Mayawati said on Saturday that ties with SP will continue even after   election debacle, the SP-BSP alliance is set to undergo another test of unity, this time in the legislative council elections due next month. As many as 12 council seats are scheduled to fall vacant after retirement of many senior leaders, including SP chief   and two cabinet ministers from BJP —   and Mahendra Singh, on May 5.

 BSP chief Mayawati had assured SP of helping it win two council seats provided the latter ensured BSP candidate’s election to RS. But with her party candidate losing despite SP and Congress support, it is to be seen whether Mayawati, known to be a hard bargainer, gives her decision a rethink.
  
  
 
 With 402 MLAs in the assembly, each candidate will need at least 33 votes to get elected to the council. The BJP-led NDA, which has 324 MLAs can easily get nine seats and have 27 spare votes. With BSP’s Anil Singh and SP’s Nitin Agarwal defecting to its side, BJP tally goes up to 29. The saffron party can therefore win another seat with the support of independents.
 
 On the other hand, SP with 46 MLAs (after defection of Nitin Agarwal), can easily get at least one member elected with 13 votes to spare. The party seeks to get support of BSP which has 18 MLAs (after defection of Anil Singh) and Congress for winning the second seat.
 
 SP spokesperson   said that SP had been true to its word in Rajya Sabha elections. “We gave full support to Mayawati in the  , and she had assured us of support in winning two council seats,” said Chaudhary, who will himself retire in May.
 
 BSP sources, however, said that the party would formally decide a strategy on how to go about council elections. “There is still some time left for MLC elections. Let us see what Behenji decides,” said a senior BSP functionary.
 
 Among the 12 retiring MLCs, seven are from SP, whose strength would thus go down from 61to 54. The SP would look for BSP support in adding another MLC to its tally. BSP tally in council too would go down from nine to seven following retirement of its legislative party leader Sunil Chittor and  .
 
 “However, now that there are indications that of the nine votes promised by SP to BSP, some may not have come through. It remains to be seen whether this newfound bonhomie will last,” said a political expert.
 
