To prevent accidental falls, suicides and homicides, the   ( ) has taken a decision to install platform screen gates (PSGs) at 25 elevated and platform screen doors (PSDs) at five underground Metro rail stations in the city.

 The estimated cost of PSGs and PSDs is Rs170 crore and the Mahametro will manage to raise the money from its approved cost of Rs11,420 crore itself.
 
 
 Mahametro board of directors took this decision in the meeting held on Friday here. Mahametro managing director   told TOI that provisions for PSGs and PSDs were not made in the detailed project report (DPR) sanctioned on January 9 last year.
 
 “It was the same case with   too. We incorporated it later and have ensured that all Metro stations will have PSGs. A similar thing has been done for Pune,” he said.
 
 Mahametro’s four-member sub committee comprising Dixit, Pune municipal commissioner Kunal Kumar, directors NM Dhoke and   have approved the PSGs and PSDs.
 
 “In Delhi Metro, there have been many cases of suicides and even homicides due to pushing. There has been huge pressure on Metro authorities to take mitigation steps.   is retrofitting smaller PSGs on elevated stations in a phased manner. Provisions of PSGs and PSDs have been done in line-7 and 8 that are under construction. Similar initiatives have been taken up in Metro projects at  , Ahmedabad, Kolkata and Bengaluru that are under construction. The cost of retrofitting PSGs and PSDs is more than what would have been spent during the construction stage. Also, it will prevent from modifications in software, civil and telecom interfaces and obviate discomfort to passengers,” stated the sub committee’s report.
 
 As per the proposal, PSDs in five underground Metro stations will save power consumption by 22%. “Stations where taller PSDs will be provided, there will be power saving in the air-conditioning load by saving outflow of cool air,” said the report.
 
 At present, the rolling stock in   is three-car carriage with a proposal to extend it to six.
 
