By: Raju Ghosh

 
 The incident on the   was disgraceful that brought a bad name to the entire clan of  . I feel disgusted that an autowallah could do this. Like him, I have a family. Did he never think of his family before committing this crime? How can someone be so irresponsible? People trust us and so, they travel by autos in the middle of the night. Such act breaches the trust.
 
 But you must understand that there are only a handful of  , who need to be singled out and banished. We cannot let these dangerous fellows loose as innocent commuters rely so much on us.
 
 One stray incident should not have brought bad name to the entire trade. But people tend to generalise and make villain out of us. However, we are human beings, most of us have families. We have our sons, daughter, wives and mothers at home. I cannot even think of behaving wrongfully with woman passengers.
 
 We ferry lakhs of passengers every day. Apni roj roj edhoroner ghatana shunben na (You won’t get to hear about such incidents every day). We might be accused of rude behaviour, we are known for picking quarrels on anything and everything. But we rarely misbehave with woman passengers. Then people would not have boarded autos at all and we would have been left starving.
 
 I have always been   with women. I even try to dissuade them from sitting in front as it becomes rather inconvenient for the autowallah to drive. But sometimes, particularly at night, I am forced to allow a woman to sit beside me as some of the co-passengers could be drunk.
 
 I have been driving an auto for 12 years during which there have been several instances, when I have had to halt the vehicle to rescue a woman passenger. On some occasions, I have even slapped the accused passenger before forcing him to get off my auto midway.
 
 My last trip often extends beyond midnight. If I have a woman passenger alone in my auto, I keep a close watch through the rear-view mirror. Passengers’ safety, is after all, my responsibility.
 
 (Ghosh operates his auto on the Kasba-Golpark-Garia route).
 
