GURUGRAM:   boy Pranav Goyal and Faridabad’s Ayush Garg, who have bagged fourth and 12th positions respectively in the joint entrance examination ( ) main for 2018, are the state  . The results of the coveted exams were declared on Monday evening.

 Pranav, a student of Bhavan Vidyalaya in Panchkula, scored 350 marks out of 360, and two wrong answers cost him the first rank. The state topper said he drew inspiration from last year’s JEE (advanced) topper Sarvesh Mehtani, his close friend.
 
 Goyal, who studied 11 hours a day, made sure he got his 45-minute dose of entertainment before bedtime. “One should focus on his aim and prepare for the exam. I have been preparing for the exam for the last two years. As far as the paper was concerned, the topics of the questions were same as the previous year,” he said, adding that he is keen to pursue engineering degree in computer science at IIT-Bombay.
 
 “Now I want to perform well in the JEE advanced as I have done in the JEE mains. My parents have supported me a lot in my journey,” said Goyal, adding that his father was a huge inspiration besides Mehtani.
 
 On the other hand, Ayush, a student of Modern Vidya Niketan in  , stayed off social media for the past two years and focussed on studies only.
 
 “I was confident that I would clear the JEE Main as my preparation for the exams was spot on. For the past two years, I kept myself aloof from my friends and never logged on to any social media site. I was only studying,” said Garg, who who scored 340 out of 360 marks.
 
 The the son of an IT professional in Faridabad and a homemaker mother, Garg believes for any student to clear the JEE exams, it’s necessary to get the right tuition. “Coaching gives you the right direction, which you cannot do by doing self-study. The institutes conduct test series which is on all-India level, so we get to know our rankings,” he said.
 
 “Nothing comes on a platter. To clear the main, I have studied every single day for around seven hours. I would go to my teachers to clear doubts, trouble them until I was confident,” he added.
 
 However, when this state topper is not in the mood of studying, he likes to play badminton and listen to songs. “Saina Nehwal is my favourite,” he said.
 
 
