LUDHIANA: An excise and taxation officer ( ), posted in range-I of state taxation department’s Ludhiana office, has been suspended for allegedly hiring an outsider as a helping hand and giving him access to the online system of the department, which is otherwise confidential.

 Sources said senior officials found that ETO   had given his own login ID and password to the outsider to access the online system of the department.
 
 Keeping the above facts in view, additional chief secretary (taxation) M P Singh issued suspension orders on May 18.
 
 Despite repeated attempts, deputy excise and taxation commissioner, Ludhiana, Pawan Garg could not be contacted. But sources said his office has already received the orders issued by additional chief secretary and the officer in question has been placed under suspension.
 
 Giving more information, assistant excise and taxation commissioner-I Rajpal Khaira said, “ETO Jagtar Singh has been placed under suspension following the orders from the headquarters. But the chargesheet is yet to be received. The matter is about hiring an outsider, but no further details are available as of now. ETO has been working in range-I for the past two years.”
 
 The incident has once again put a question mark on the working of the state taxation department which in the recent times has come under criticism from businessmen for rise in cases of fraudulent refunds.
 
 According to a highly placed sources in the department, the action against the ETO has been taken after complaints were received against him for keeping private person for official work. The source also revealed that the holder of official user ID and password can access all the sensitive information and functions like issuing GST number, modifying dealer information and even refunds.
 
 Excise and taxation commissioner, Punjab, Vivek Partap Singh, said, “This is purely a departmental action as we had received a report that some dealers were registered wrongly under login ID of the ETO in question.”
 
 He said the chargesheet was being prepared and the officer concerned would be given an opportunity to respond to the charges.
 
 Sources said this was a rare case, which has placed the role of other officials too under the scanner.
 
 
