MUMBAI: A perceived failure by the   (DHS) to approve applications from foreign entrepreneurs to operate in the country has prompted the US-based   and others, including entrepreneurs from India, to move court again. They said they are troubled by DHS statements suggesting it is not implementing the  .

 
 Even as the matter plays out in the US district court,   has taken the first steps towards rescinding the IER, which enables eligible foreign entrepreneurs to operate in the US for a certain period. On May 2, the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs cleared the move. It will be published in the federal register and public comments invited. The process of finalising the new rules, which will rescind the IER, will take several months. Immigration experts say that till such time, IER must be respected and eligible applications must be approved.
 
 Last December, TOI had reported how the US district court had held that DHS' delay in implementing the Obama-era IER was unlawful. Subsequently, the DHS posted instructions and a form enabling entrepreneurs to apply. However, not a single application, including those filed by the entrepreneurs who had successfully fought the litigation, has been approved. Apart from the venture capital association, the plantiffs included a handful of startups and their founders. For instance, Omni Labs was a party to the case as its founders, Nishant Srivastava and Vikram Tiwari, both Indian citizens, were unable to run their startup from within the US and had to operate from Canada.
 
 The stalemate despite a favourable court order has prompted the National Venture Capital Association (NVCA) and others to again approach the district court. "NVCA and the other plaintiffs have grave concerns that DHS has chosen to disregard the court's previous order. DHS has failed to take action on IER applications, including the applications of the plaintiffs. Troublingly, DHS has made public statements suggesting it is not implementing the IER. The motion to conduct discovery is essential to ensure the court's decision is fully implemented to allow IER to move forward," states the venture capital association.
 
 IER enables qualified international entrepreneurs (based on prescribed criteria, including funds raised - minimum $250,000(approximately Rs 1crore 69 lakh) from qualified US investors or $100,000 (approximately Rs 68 lakh) from government grants) to obtain immigration 'parole', meaning they can temporarily enter and stay in the US and nurture their startup, despite not having a visa or green card. Commonly, IER is known as the  , but it is actually a permit to foreign entrepreneurs to stay in the US for two-and-a-half years with the possibility of another extension of a similar tenure.
 
 The US, unlike other countries like Canada, does not have a separate category of visas for foreign entrepreneurs.
 
