It’s that time of the year when students set aside everything and focus solely on their studies. With the ongoing examinations, stress and anxiety levels reach an all-time high, often resulting in a tense atmosphere at home both for the students and their parents.
What do the young ones do to beat the stress?
 
 
 Your pets can really be therapeutic and help calm nerves. “During examinations, I’m normally a bundle of nerves and I stay up at night worrying about the exam, which distracts me from studying. So, I unwind by going on long and calming walks with my dog, which refreshes my mind,” says  , a student from Christ College.
 
 
 While exercising ensures that you remain fit and healthy, it also helps with your concentration levels, say students. “Being a sports buff, my go-to stress buster during exams is running and swimming. I study for about 3-4 hours at a stretch, with intervals in between that are filled with some physical activity like climbing up a flight of stairs or a proper run around the block. Towards the end of the day, I allot an hour for swimming,” says  , a student from Mount Carmel College.
 Similarly, some students take to dancing to keep calm during examinations. “Differ-ent people have different ways to de-stress. I do a bit of meditation and dancing in between my study breaks,” says  , a student of MS Ramaiah Institute of Technology.
 
 
 Books and music are an all-time favourite among students who seek a quick escape from their hectic study schedules. “For me, the best stress buster is music. Being a singer myself, I find it relaxing when I practise a few songs,” says  , a student of Jyoti Nivas College. Anjaly adds that going through an old book all over again also helps to take your mind off your hectic study schedule.
  “Re-reading an old favourite like Harry Potter for a break really helps to calm me down,” she says, adding, “I’ve learned that it’s best to avoid those friends who constantly talk about how much portions they’ve finished or how many times they’ve revised. Each person studies in their own way and at their own pace. So, there is no point in comparing yourself to others.” 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
