NASHIK: In what can be called an example of lack of co-ordination between Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Company Limited (MSEDCL) co-operation, a farmer from   is being issued electricity bills since 2016 despite having no power connection. 

 Jayeeta Shaw, a resident of Gangapur Road, had sought a power connection in 2015. “I had been to MSEDCL’s Peth office to apply for a connection for my farm at Vilvandi in Dindori taluka. While the company issued me the first bill in March 2016, it has not given me the power connection. I have raised the matter with the superintendent engineer of MSEDCL as well as with the District Consumer Protection Council at the collectorate,” said Shaw. 
 
 She added since there was no power connection in the vicinity, MSEDCL officials asked her to engage a contractor and lay the power cables up to the farm. She paid Rs 2 lakh through cheque to an MSEDCL-licenced contractor who was to carry out the entire process. 
 
 “We paid the first bill of Rs 1,000 so as to ensure a record is created. Since then, we have been running from one office to another but in vain,” she said.
 
 Shaw finally registered a complaint with   (IRGC) of the MSEDCL which also passed a strange decision. The December 2017 decision reads, ‘Consumer is being issued energy bill without being issued the power connection. Concerned power connection should be immediately closed down.’ 
 
 “Even IGRC admits the consumer has not been given connection. But, in the same order, it asks its officers to close the connection. What exactly does it want to convey?” questioned Shaw. 
 
 Shaw however pointed out in 2018, she received a message from MSEDCL officers saying she had not paid the supervisory charges of 1.3% for laying the power connection, hence the work was incomplete. 
 
 “I never said no to paying these charges. But the question is —how did I get the consumer number and how is the bill being generated even today?” she said. 
 
 Superintendent engineer,   said he had sought an explanation from the concerned office. “I have received the complaint about a week ago and have asked for an explanation from the concerned office,” he said.
 
 
