Be it a five-year-old boy from   in Jammu and Kashmir who came up with the idea of a pen that can calculate while writing or a student from Chennai who designed a watch with chilli spray for women for self-defence, there were quite a few examples that left Miss World 2017   and Mr World 2016   impressed at the Festival of Innovation and Entrepreneurship (FINE) exhibition held in the   complex. Manushi and Rohit interacted with the innovators, who came from different walks of life, and clicked pictures and made videos with them to share about their work to the world. "As I came here, I was reminded of my childhood days when my father would take me to every science fair and exhibition in the city and also to the National Science Centre. I have been a Science student and I was as curious to learn how things work and how we can make things better as these kids I met today. I felt I relived my childhood today. It’s good that these people and their extraordinary ideas are getting recognition. It’s so amazing to see that all these innovations can make a big difference in our lives," said Manushi.

 
  
  
 
 
  
  Manushi with her parents Neelam and   
 
 
 
 The first thing that Manushi and Rohit checked out was a range of earthen ware (including a cooker and refrigerator) invented by a man whose father used to make earthen pots. Those from Haryana were glad to have Manushi as a visitor and even addressed her as ‘mhaare gaon ka chhora.’ Said Manushi, "There are some great stories I am going to take back home. I was touched by the story of this man who made this machine that can help you cook anything, except rotis. He came up with the idea of this machine to help his mother who had to cook for many people. This can actually help women a lot. In every household today, we have women who are working and who also cook at home. And Indian food takes a lot of time to prepare. So with the help of this machine, they can save time and easily multitask."
 
  
  Manushi Chhillar and Rohit Khandelwal
 
 As she was talking about cooking, she was asked if she could cook. "I love cooking. I have stayed in a hostel for a year and I know cooking and I am very proud of it. I might not be as good a cook as my mother, but I can survive if left alone in the kitchen," Manushi said.
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
