PATIALA: The Punjab state vigilance bureau has arrested a father-son duo of   and Vaneet Mittal in connection with the   panchayat multi-crore scam in Mohali district. A team led by the vigilance inspector Satwant Singh Sidhu arrested the two from their office located at Nabha gate in Sangrur.

 The two had been booked by the vigilance bureau after their names cropped up during investigations in the multi-crore scam in which an ADC, a panchayat secretary, a district development and panchayat officer (DDPO) and a block development and panchayat officer (BDPO) are already in the dock.
 
 Sidhu said that during investigations it came to light that the accused plotted with Mittals and placed an order of Rs 82 lakh to install cement benches in the village. He said that it emerged that no tenders were floated for the project and the quotations submitted by three firms that were put on record to complete the files were all owned by the Mittals. He said that the money was transferred to the account of   on January 3, 2017, in collusion with sarpanch  , panchayat secretary Ravinder Singh and BDPO Jatinder Singh Dhillon. “No bench was ever installed in the village. The accused withdrew the money from the account of Mittal Traders and distributed among themselves,” claimed Sidhu.
 
 The state vigilance has already arrested Mansa ADC Gurvinder Singh Sarao, panchayat secretary Ravinder Singh, BDPO Jatinder Singh Dhillon and DDPO Malwinder Singh for their alleged involvement in the scam. Sarpanch Gurpal Singh is reportedly absconding.
 
 The multi-crore scam had been exposed during the auditing of account books of Jheurheri panchayat. It had come to light that after acquiring 36 acres of common land belonging to   for the airport project, the state government had released a compensation of Rs 54.17 crore for the panchayat, which was deposited with the rural development and panchayats director instead in that of the panchayat.
 
 After receiving the money, Jheurheri sarpanch Gurpal in connivance with the other accused bought land in the name of the village at inflated rates in other parts of the states, placed fake orders to buy benches for the village and transferred funds to other panchayats, some private firms and contractors. The accused also showed money spent on development works in the account books, which had already been completed under other government schemes.
 
 
