Pune:   of vehicles along roads may no longer be a free-of-cost affair, but it won’t be too costly either. 

 The standing committee of the   body on Tuesday approved a  , putting brakes on free parking of vehicles. At the same time, the panel   the parking   for all types of vehicles than what was proposed by the administration. 
 
 Standing committee chairman Yogesh Mulik said the charges were reduced almost by 80% from what it was proposed. 
 
 “The policy was necessary to help manage traffic and restrict blocking of road-side space with rampant parking of vehicles. A voting was held, during which 10 members voted in favour of the policy,” he said. 
 
 Now, a two-wheeler rider will have to pay anything between Rs 2 and Rs 4 as parking charges per hour, while the hourly charges for parking a car will range from Rs 10 to Rs 20. The civic admininistration had proposed Rs 10-20 as hourly parking charges for two-wheelers an d Rs 50-100 for cars. The charges for night parking were also been reduced to Rs 10 from the proposed Rs 50. 
 
 The civic administration, along with the traffic police department, will implement the policy once it gets the general body’s nod.
 
 Municipal commissioner Kunal Kumar said it’s a balanced decision as approval to the policy was vital. He added, “The charges can be changed while implementing the policy.” 
 
 Standing   members of NCP, Congress and Shiv Sena voted against the policy. Leader of the house Shrinath Bhimale said, “It’s a move to streamline traffic and ensure that people use vehicles only when necessary. About 30-35 more parking slots will come up.” 
 
 Shrinivas Bonala, chief engineer (projects), said the traffic department will share the data of roads with parking facilities. 
 
 Prashant Inamdar of Pedestrian First said car owners can pay more than Rs 20 and the charges should be on an hourly basis. 
 
 Sujit Patwardhan of Parisar said though lowering the charges would reduce the impact, the administration should implement it without lapses.
 
 
