By- Sunil Rahar

 CHANDIGARH: The Class XII students taking Hindi exam and Class X students who appeared for their Sanskrit exam under Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) on Monday stated that their respective exams were easy.
 
 Most of the students of both division claimed that the paper was based on prescribed pattern of National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT).
 
 With the culmination of class X exam on Monday, the students’ mission for board exam has almost come to an end while students of Class XII will have to appear on April 13 for their Physical Education exam.
 
 The students who have to re-appear for economics on April 25 will not have the economics exam. The subsequent test for Class XII will be an optional language exam which includes Punjabi to be held on Tuesday while Class X will have painting exam on Wednesday.
 
 The students were in exuberant mood after the exam.
 
 Shakshi Sharma, a Class X student of  , said, “We can now heave a sigh of relief after going through the high drama over the paper leak controversy last week. We relaxed a bit after we got the news on Friday that Mathematics paper would not be conducted in UT. The pressure drop is the reason that I could excel in the exam.”
 
 Sagar, another student, said, “The paper was very easy. Now, we are relieved. Most of the questions in the paper were picked up from NCERT book. Most of the students would be able to fetch good scores. I completed the exam half hour before the stipulated time.”
 
 Rose Chanchal, a Class XII student from   in Sector 20, said, “I am feeling relaxed after the last exam. I can now focus on the entrance exam preparations.”
 
 Students stated that now they could get to plan for their trip tour.
 
 Himani Bhosle, student of Government Model Senior Secondary School, Sector 8, said, “A majority of questions in the paper were taught in classroom. I am hopeful of scoring above 80.”
 
 Shweta Dangi, another student of the same school, said, “I am disappointed that the CBSE has decided to conduct a retest. I had performed well in economics but now I am confused as to whether I would be able to perform well in that exam.”
 
 The UT Class X students can now heave a sigh of relief while students from   and Panchkula were miffed lot as CBSE had postponed CBSE exam in   and there is still uncertainty over the Mathematics paper to be conducted again in Panchkula.
 
 Rashmi a Class X student from Panchkula, said, “The exams are over but the stress is still there until we get clarity on the Mathematics exam.”
 
