CHENNAI: RK Nagar legislator and rebel leader   is feeling the heat of the AIADMK-dominated assembly. He is facing it single-handedly though. The nephew of   was heckled by   members on Friday on the floor of the assembly as he charged the EPS government with working against the principles of late AIADMK leader J Jayalalithaa on imposing total prohibition in the state. 

 
 
 A wordy duel ensued between the   and prohibition and excise minister P Thangamani, who accused "that family" (TTV's relatives) of owning 25% of the total distilleries in the state since 2002. "They would become eligible to talk in the assembly only when they declare closing down their own units. But they want income," the minister said, leaving it to the treasury benches to heckle the rebel leader, who enjoyed a huge clout in the ruling camp when Jayalalithaa was alive. As heat picked up, Dhinakaran staged a walkout in protest. The rebel leader seated in the opposition received support neither from the   members nor from the lone IUML MLA when the microphone was switched off during much of his 10-minute speech. Much of what he said did not go into the records too.
 
 Trouble began during the zero hour debate when TTV alleged that the government was opening more Tasmac outlets. "Amma, in her electoral manifesto in 2016, promised that she would cut the total number of 6,672 outlets in a phased manner. Is it appropriate for the government that claims to follow in her footsteps to issue an order to open 810 outlets?" Dhinakaran asked, recalling the late leader's first signature after becoming chief minister for the sixth time to shut down 500 outlets. Another 500 outlets were closed during her birthday celebrations in February last year. The outlets were reduced to 3,866 after court orders.
 
 Amid heated exchanges between Dhinakaran and Thangamani, a legislator from the treasury bench heckled Dhinakaran. Thangamani said, "We run only 3,866 now. The lower judiciary order to shut down 810 outlets was to be challenged in the Supreme Court," the minister said, reasoning that outlets could be closed down only in a phased manner by creating adequate awareness and ensuring that illicit liquor from neighbouring states did not enter Tamil Nadu. Sparks flew on Thursday as well when TTV addressed the minister 'Tasmac Thangamani'. The minister retorted saying he would not be daunted by the jibes of a person, whose family owned a distillery.
 
 As TTV raised objection to speaker P Dhanapal for not reining in the minister, the speaker said the minister was making a general reference and not naming anyone.
 
