Gandhinagar: Deputy chief minister Nitin Patel seems to have opened the Pandora’s box — crammed with demands for important portfolios — for the ruling BJP in Gujarat. Two days after the party leadership succumbed to deputy chief minister Nitin Patel’s Patidar-power-packed tantrum and handed back the finance portfolio to him, Parshottam Solanki, the minister of state for fisheries, on Tuesday said that his community has urged him to quit. The Koli strongman said that his community feels he has been slighted by being given a single department though he is a five-term MLA. 

 “There is dissent in the Koli community and the elders have told me that a leader of my stature should be given more than the fisheries department,” Solanki said. “In the past, I have handled multiple ministries but after I won for the fifth time, I was given only one department — fisheries. This is unacceptable to my community.” In the past, Solanki has held labour & employment, animal husbandry, and cow breeding departments. But his role was cut down to only fisheries in the two cabinets of Vijay Rupani. 
 
 The Patidar community had rallied around Nitin Patel in his push to regain the key finance portfolio. For his part, Solanki has sought to harness the electoral clout of the Koli community. “Kolis have helped the BJP win election after election,” Solanki said. “The Lok Sabha elections will be held in 2019. The Koli community might decide to choose other options. It is time for the BJP to decide.” The Kolis account for 9% of Gujarat’s population.
 
 Solanki has refused to name the ministry he seeks, but he says that he should be given important portfolios through which he can “do something good for people”. Solanki runs welfare trusts for the Koli community and is the leader of the Koli Sena. Incidentally, prosecution is pending against him in a Gandhinagar court in connection with a Rs 400 crore fisheries scam.
 
 Solanki had sought an appointment with Rupani to discuss his grievance. Later, Solanki said he could not lay out his case at length because the chief minister’s office was overcrowded. He said that Rupani has set up another meeting in five days. State education minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama, who recently brokered the compromise between the BJP high command and Nitin Patel, has met Solanki. “Parshottambhai has no personal grievance and is a committed solider of the BJP,” Chudasama said. “The party will address all his concerns. The CM has assured him of an amicable solution.” In the Congress camp, several Koli leaders and supporters of Jasdan MLA Kuvarji Bavaliya have demanded that he be appointed the Leader of the Opposition (LOP) in the state assembly. Bavaliya is one of the senior-most Koli leaders in the Congress and is considered to be the frontrunner for the key post. Bavaliya’s supporters made their case to Gujarat Congress president Bharatsinh Solanki. 
 
 To complicate matters, supporters of Punja Vansh — another Koli leader of the Congress — want to see him as the LOP. Bharatsinh Solanki said of the goings-on in the BJP: “The public display of the desire for important portfolios has exposed the BJP’s greed and anti-people sentiment.”
 
 Oppose triple talaq bill: Cong MLA to party
 
 Congress MLA from Dariapur, Gyasuddin Sheikh, has written a letter to the state Congress president Bharatsinh Solanki on behalf of Gujarat Muslim Hitrakshak Samiti urging him that the party should oppose the BJP-led NDA government’s move to introduce anti-triple talaq bill. Shiekh has requested that all secular parties, led by the Congress, should oppose the bill and prevent it from being notified as an Act.
 
 Reshuffle likely
 
 Chief minister Vijay Rupani may have to reshuffle portfolios of some ministers following the latest political development. According to sources, he may go for an expansion of his cabinet before the upcoming budget session. There are speculations that the BJP government may appoint five to seven parliamentary secretaries too.
 
 Oath ceremony 
 
 Oath ceremony of the 182 elected MLAs is likely to be held between January 15 and January 22. A protem speaker will be appointed first on the basis of seniority.
 
 
