Guntur: An inordinate delay in completing the Underground Drainage (UGD) works has completely paralysed development works in the city. 

 The UGD project which was launched with a mission to provide better public health infrastructure, instead ended up crippling existing   as almost all the roads in the city were left damaged. 
 
 Notwithstanding the repeated warnings and instructions issued by the district administration, the contractor of the UGD project grossly failed to put the works on the fast track.
 
 The ruling TDP, which wanted to showcase the project as its gift to the city in the next elections, might end up facing the wrath of the public as the latest indications revealed that it might require another 24-30 months to operationalise the project. Besides the failure to complete UGD works, chaos prevailed in restoration of damaged roads, becoming a major concern for the public in the city.
 
 The project was originally started in October, 2016 with a target to complete it by November, 2018. Surprisingly, the contractor could complete just around 39-40% of the project work in the last 18 months.
 
 After CM Chandrababu Naidu took the district collector to task at the previous district collectors’ conference, district collector Sasidhar reviewed the progress and set completion of at least 3 km per day work as target about six months ago. The contractor, who moved additional machinery and men to the city following the collector’s instructions, had coolly moved away the machinery from the city within three months. At present, the contractor is just completing 1.5-1.8km per day work against the target of 3.5 km.
 
 “The firm is yet to complete nearly 658 km of pipeline work to bring the entire system into operation and it will easily take another 24-30 months as it might not be easy to handle the work in the monsoon season,” said a senior official of GMC. He said that the contractor had failed to utilise the absence of rains in the last 6-8 months to speed up the works to make up for the delay already caused.
 
 The progress of works is at a satisfactory level only in Zone-I where it achieved 66% of the target. While it was around 50% in Zone-II and Zone-V, it was around 40% in Zone-III. Shockingly, not even 5% of the work was completed in Zone-IV of the city.
 
 
