Bengaluru: The principal of a BBMP government school in Lakkasandra has been suspended over allegations of resorting to corporal punishment, besides punishing students by forcefully undressing them and taking their photographs.

 Accused Sulochana’s suspension came following a complaint to the BBMP from the director of Childline (1098). 
 
 The suspension order issued by BBMP commissioner N Manjunatha Prasad on February 9 quotes from the complaint, which reads: “Sulochana was subjecting students to physical abuse of different kinds. It has also been alleged that she made children wash vessels at her home and take care of her grandchildren among other things.”
 
 “She would even ask students to remove their clothes and take photographs and torture them physically. She would even force children to convince their parents to send money for trips against their wishes,” it further states.
 
 Based on the complaint, the Palike had ordered a probe by the education officer, who submitted his report on January 29. Following this, a report was also submitted by an assistant commissioner at BBMP.
 
 The order, based on these reports, also bars Sulochana from entering the school premises till the suspension period is over. 
 
 Child rights activists, while welcoming BBMP’s decision, have sought more stringent punishment. “Such people generally do not change, they come back and behave the same way. They must be dismissed and kept away from children,” one of them said.
 
 According to the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR), all forms of corporal punishment, including sexual abuse are harmful to the child and are classified under three broad heads: physical punishment, mental harassment and discrimination.
 
 Even the RTE Act prohibits corporal punishment in schools and over the past year, action has been initiated against multiple schools, especially private ones.
 
 DEFINING PUNISHMENT
 
 * Physical punishment is understood as any action that causes pain, hurt/injury and discomfort to a child, however light. Examples: causing physical harm to children by hitting, kicking, scratching, pinching, biting, pulling hair, boxing ears, smacking, slapping, spanking 
 
 * Mental harassment is understood as any non-physical treatment that is detrimental to the academic and psychological well-being of a child. Examples: sarcasm that hurts or lowers dignity, calling names and scolding using humiliating adjectives, intimidation, making derogatory remarks, including pinning of slogans
 
 * Discrimination is understood as prejudiced views and behaviour towards any child because of her/his caste/gender, occupation or region and non-payment of fees 
 
 Source: National Commission for Protection of Child Rights
 
 
