SHIVAMOGGA: A day after the Dalit protests and the subsequent loss of lives shook the nation, AICC president   on Tuesday questioned Prime Minister   on his silence over the dilution of the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribes atrocities act.

 “When there is a clear threat to the lives of the weaker sections of society, their exploitation continuing across the nation, the fear of the SC/ST atrocities act being diluted is palpable,” Rahul said. “There is large scale opposition against the dilution of the act, and yet, Modi remains silent.”
 
 Expressing his condolences on the loss of life in the Dalits agitations — 11 people were killed across parts of north India — Rahul charged Modi with making “false promises” of removing disparity in society and on providing equal opportunity to all. “But instead, he is allowing the rich to become even richer and escape from the country and continues to remain silent on the matter. Perhaps, he believes that silence is the best way of ruling this country,” he said with sarcasm.
 
 Rahul also attacked Modi for his silence on the “incomparable” corruption which took place under the BJP reign of Karnataka in 2008. “I believe that the BJP national president Amit Shah’s statement of Karnataka achieving the number one position in corruption under B S Yeddyurappa was not a slip of tongue but a fact,” he said.
 
 Earlier in the day, Rahul met the Kanaka Gurupeetha pontiff Sri Niranjanananda Puri swamiji at Belludi near Harihar. He took the blessing of the pontiff and was felicitated with a black ‘kambali’ (woolen blanket), perceived to be a good omen of victory ahead of the elections.
 
 Along the route, he held a road show in Malebennur and greeted party workers along the way. At a Congress rally in Davanagere, Rahul dragged Union finance minister Arun Jaitley’s daughter into the Nirav Modi PNB scam. “Do you know who is Nirav Modi’s advocate? It’s Jaitley’s daughter. Officers warned about the Nirav Modi scam sixseven months ago but no action was taken,” he alleged.
 
 He took potshots at the RSS saying they wear half-chaddis, hold lathis and deliver speeches. “Their speeches are a bundle of lies as the organisation is known for spreading falsehoods and misleading people,’’ Rahul said.
 
 According to him, all major decisions are taken by PM Narendra Modi and RSS chief Mohan Bhagwat. “Dear Modiji, you cannot run the government with half-chaddi and lathi-wielding people,’’ he said.
 
 (With inputs from Shrinivasa M and C V Raghavendra Rao in Shivamogga)
 
