GHAZIABAD: One more member of Ablaze Info Solutions, a company accused of tricking more than 6 lakh people into giving them their money through a   that promised big returns for hitting ‘likes’ on line, has been arrested.

 The company had allegedly committed a fraud of Rs 3,700 crore by the time its mastermind   was arrested last year in February. On Thursday, a joint team of officials from the special investigation team and Indirapuram police arrested  , a promoter with Ablaze solutions, from Swarn Jayanti Park in Indirapuram following a tip-off.
 
 Police said the accused had been absconding for over one year. “An FIR was registered against the company on a complaint of a Noida resident at Indirapuram police on February 3, 2017 after the scam was busted by the special task force. At that time, four persons, including the mastermind of the Ponzi scheme, were also arrested. Gupta’s role was also mentioned in the FIR. He had earned some Rs 57 lakh in commission from the scheme,” said SHO, Indirapuram, Sachin Malik.
 
 Sharma was sent to judicial custody on Friday after being produced before chief judicial magistrate Archana.
 
 The scam had surfaced after the arrest of a 26-year-old BTech graduate Anubhav Mittal and his two aides — 40-year-old Shridhar Prasad, an MBA, and 25-year-old Mahesh Dayal, who served as tech support — from an office in Sector 63, Noida, on February 2, 2017. They had floated a fake company called Ablaze Info Solutions Private Limited that operated from a building in Sector 63. Police had also seized Rs 600 crore from 12 bank accounts of the company.
 
 Under the scheme, people were first made to pay a subscription fee to become a member of the company and then click ‘like’ on random links sent by the company on a daily basis. Subscribers were assured a handsome return for this job. However, barring a handful subscribers, the majority of people never got any money from the company for their ‘job’.
 
 Apart from Anubhav, five persons, including his father Sunil Mittal and wife Ayushi, are in Dasna jail. All six have been charged for cheating and forgery and under the provisions of Prize Chits and Money Circulation Schemes (Banning) Act, 1978. A   court had last month rejected the bail plea of Anubhav, “given the serious nature of crime he committed.”
 
 
