NEW DELHI: Farmers’ groups from across the country will on March 14 launch a nation-wide ‘MSP Satyagraha’ from Yadgir in poll-bound   and go to different ‘mandis’ (agri markets) in several states over the next 11 days to check out whether farmers are actually getting   that they have been assured of.

 “The MSP Satyagraha is designed in true spirit of Gandhian Satyagraha for collective discovery of truth about MSP. Officials, activists and even media are invited to join it”, said Yogendra Yadav, president of the Swaraj India, while announcing plan of the farmers’ organisation here on Wednesday.
 
 The MSP Satyagraha will be carried out by the   of   in collaboration with many other organisations from within the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC) - an umbrella body of several farmer rights outfits.
 
 The AIKSCC includes National Alliance of Peoples Movements (NAPM), Ryathu Joint Action Committee (Telangana) and Kisan Sangharsh Samiti ( ) among others. 
 
 “The MSP Satyagraha will be launched from Yadgir in Karnataka and go from ‘mandi’ to ‘mandi’ and raise awareness of legal right of MSP and prevent loot of farmers. Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Rajasthan, Haryana, Uttarakhand, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra will be covered in Phase I (till March 25)”, said Avik Saha, national convenor of the Jai Kisan Andolan.
 
 It will culminate at Rudrapur in Uttarakhand on March 25 before covering Kurnool, Andhra Pradesh (March 15); Tandur, Telangana (March 16); Sri Ganganagar, Rajasthan ( March 17-18) and Rewari in Haryana (March 19).
 
 “It is time to test this promise as the marketing season for Rabi crop 2018-19 has begun. An analysis of the marketing season of Kharif crop 2017-18 had demonstrated that the farmers were forced to sell much below MSP and had incurred a total loss of at least Rs 32,702 crores. It may be kept in mind that traditionally farmers losses is lower in Rabi marketing season then during kharif marketing season,” said Yadav. 
 
 The Jan Kisan Andolan activists claimed that signals are, so far, not very good. “In the first few weeks of this marketing season the prices of Bengal Gram (Channa) have fallen substantially below the MSP of Rs 4400 per quintal (MSP of Rs 4250+ Rs 150 bonus). The official Agmarknet data for the first week of March shows that the average modal price of Channa is anywhere between Rs 800 to 1000 per quintal below the MSP, also substantially below the prices last year. 
 
 “Sadly much of this loss was avoidable as the government knew about greater sowing acerage and expected bumper crop of Channa. Despite this, the government allowed substantial quantity of Channa to be imported.”
 
 The import during April-November 2017 was 7.47 lakh tonne compared to 2.49 lakh tonne during the same months in 2016. 
 
 “So far, the state response has not been up to the mark. Maharashtra has announced procurement of just 3 lakh tonnes against an estimated arrival of 19 lakh tonnes of Channa. Madhya Pradesh’s Bhavantar Yojna (price deficiency scheme) has run into difficulties”, said the organisation in a statement. 
 
 
