THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: It is going to be medical bandh on Tuesday as all hospitals in the state, including private ones, will remain shut from 6 am to 6 pm. Only emergency services will remain active as doctors will protest against the setting up of national medical commission ( ). They argued that the move went against the  .

 Though the bandh was called by   (IMA), doctors working in various government services have pledged their support to the cause. Government doctors have decided to boycott their one-hour OP duty as a mark of protest against the bill. “The new bill goes against the interest of our people and will destroy modern medicine,” said state general secretary of Kerala Government Medical Officers Association (KGMOA) Dr AK Raoof.
 
  
  
 
 At the same time, medial students are currently on an indefinite dharna in front of   demanding the withdrawal of the bill approved by the Union cabinet. Modern medicine doctors are opposing the draft NMC Bill 2017 that was approved by the Centre last week. It has been presented before the Parliament.
 
 Modern medicine doctors are objecting to a new clause that allows Ayush (Ayurveda, Yoga and Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and Homoeopathy) graduates to undergo training in modern medicine through short-term courses. “This will undoubtedly give rise to more quacks in the health care sector. This will only help to produce more under-qualified doctors in the sector through bridge courses,” said IMA state president Dr EK Ummar.
 
 NMC Bill introduced the concept of ‘bridge courses’ that allows Ayush doctors to practice allopathy that irked modern medicine doctors. The bill is all set to jeopardise the democratic functioning of medical profession.
 
 NMC will replace the existing Medical Council of India (MCI) and will have a 25-member commission of which 20 will be nominated by the Centre. Nominations will be submitted by a search committee headed by the Union cabinet secretary. This means that NMC will be tangled in bureaucracy with only five registered medical practitioners being part of the commission, said IMA state secretary Dr N Sulphi.
 
 IMA is upset over the clause pertaining to the recognition of other medical qualifications in NMC Bill.
 
 The bill allows medical qualifications granted by any other body in India to be recognized. At present, under MCI Act no person – other than a medical practitioner enrolled on a state medical register – can practice medicine in any state.
 
 Also, with the present move all state medical councils will be removed and there will be representation for five states in NMC on a rotation basis. At present, all states have representation under MCI.
 
