KOLKATA: A civic warning issued to owners and tenants of dilapidated buildings appears to have created an impact on a section of occupants of rickety houses. A day after a   team went on a demolition drive at a risky building on  , tenants of a three-storey mansion on Lenin Sarani joined hands to undertake a thorough repair of the 100-year-old structure.

 This is arguably the first time such an initiative has been taken by the tenants of any unsafe building. In the past, tenants of several such buildings have either vacated the premises or moved court after being slapped a notice by the civic body.
 
 
 
  
 
 The tenants, who run their businesses on the first two floors, were forced to take the decision after the KMC building department served them a notice, asking them to vacate the building immediately and hand it over to
 
 the civic body for demolition of wobbly portions. The notice was issued after municipal commissioner Khalil Ahmed used his special power under section 404 of the KMC building rules, which empowers the civic building department to undertake a demolition drive within seven days of serving a notice.
 
 A majority of the tenants appealed to the department to spare the demolition since that would mean an end of their business. Among 22 tenants, there are four residential tenants who stay on the second floor. The building department officials took up the matter with the civic top brass and asked the tenants to sign an undertaking, promising to adopt a thorough repair of the building. The tenants happily agreed to the proposal.
 
 A KMC official welcomed the move and assured the tenants of all possible help. “It is an encouraging trend for protection of city’s unsafe buildings. In most cases, we have seen occupants preferring to stay in highly dilapidated buildings and refusing to undertake repairs even after being served a notice. The case here is just the reverse and we feel others will take a lesson from this,” a KMC building department official said.
 
 A visit to the spot on Thursday revealed that all arrangements have been made for a repair of the building. Sankar Pal, a septuagenarian who has been a tenant of the building for past 40 years, was supervising the scaffolding being readied for the work.
 
 “We have taken all measures for a thorough repair of the building to give it an added structural strength. We have roped in expert masons from Kidderpore to do the work,” Pal said. Haider Ali, another tenant and a businessman, said they were ready to spend any amount that would require to make the building structurally safe. “We have started collecting funds for the repair work. We don’t mind spending Rs 5 lakh for an added lifespan of the building,” Ali added.
 
 The tenants’ initiative at 34 B Lenin Sarani has motivated a section of tenants at 16B Rani Rashmoni Road, the building in which parts were razed by a KMC demolition squad on Wednesday. Uday  , a tenant here, on Thursday said a majority of the 30 families was ready to contribute for a repair. “We are ready for the repair work to save the building from an imminent collapse but we need permission from the civic authorities to start the work,” Pandey said.  , another tenant of the three-storey mansion, echoed him.
 
