NEW DELHI: UP-cadre IAS officer K Dhanalakshmi’s case is a classic example of various forums of judiciary, unknown to each other, passing orders which work at cross purposes while dealing with alleged corruption at high places. In 2011, the   had registered an FIR against the 2000-batch IAS officer accusing her of amassing assets worth Rs 3 crore disproportionate to her income. 

 
 At the time of registration of FIR, she was posted as director in the Union ministry of social justice. She had also served as private secretary in the office of former external affairs minister S M Krishna. The Delhi high court’s Justice   had quashed the FIR against her on April 20, 2015. On CBI’s appeal, an   bench of Justices   and A M Sapre summoned the CBI case records and perused details and findings of the probe. 
 
 Setting aside the HC order, the SC on October 19, 2016, said: “We consider it appropriate to take a view that the HC was not justified in terminating the proceedings at the stage at which it is quashed. The HC ought not to have done so but should have allowed the proceedings to be brought to its logical conclusion in accordance with law.” The SC direction to bring “proceedings to its logical conclusion’ against Dhanalakshmi meant the trial be held against her based on evidence brought on record by the CBI. 
 
 But the IAS officer, who had engaged top lawyers Kapil Sibal, Salman Khurshid and K V Vishwanathan in the SC, had other ideas, when it was time for her possible empanelling for post of joint secretary in the Union government. Four months after the SC verdict, she moved the Allahabad HC for a direction to the Centre to consider empanelling her. 
 
 A bench of Justices   and S K Singh-I mentioned in their order about the pendency of CBI FIR against her but brushed it aside saying there was no impediment for her empanelling as vigilance department had given no objection certificate on November 8, 2010, much prior to the registration of FIR in 2011. The HC bench went on to record that “no other hurdle has been shown to us for her empanelment/appointment to the post of joint secretary”, without even mentioning about the huge hurdle put by the SC by ordering the case against her to be taken to logical conclusion. 
 
 Not resting at that, the HC took up the case again five days after passing the above order and recorded that “no consequential action shall be taken on the basis of the FIR”, accepting her counsel’s submission that it was lodged without taking sanction from the UP government. This possibly brought to naught the SC’s green signal for her prosecution in the case in accordance with law.
 
