Nagpur: Former MP Nana Patole’s re-entry into Congress was quietly announced on the party’s official Twitter handle on Thursday. Patole, who resigned from BJP and Lok Sabha last month, was planning a big ‘home-coming.’

 Eight days ago, Patole met newly elected Congress president Rahul Gandhi along with state president Ashok Chavan, AICC in-charge Mohan Prakash, leader of opposition Radhakrishna Vikhe-Patil, and Mumbai unit president Sanjay Nirupam.
 
 The very next day, he was in Nagpur and told TOI last Thursday that he was looking for an ‘auspicious day’ to make his re-entry into Congress. Patole had indicated that he sought Rahul Gandhi’s visit to his Bhandara-Gondia constituency for a public rally and enter the party in his presence. He was hoping that Rahul would give him time and date for the Bhandara visit on returning from his current visit abroad.
 
 But much to everyone’s surprise, Congress announced his entry on Twitter. A picture of Patole and Rahul exchanging bouquet, apparently taken in their meeting eight days ago, was posted stating that Patole, who quit as BJP MP, was being welcomed to Congress. 
 
 Patole, who was in Dabhadi village of Yavatmal for a farmers’ meeting, said he was “happy with the honour with which he was welcomed to Congress in presence of senior leaders. He termed it as a home-coming referring to his Congress tenure during which he was elected as an MLA in 1999 and 2004.
 
 Patole quit Congress in 2008 and won the Bhandara assembly seat in 2009 on BJP’s ticket. In 2014, he contested the Lok Sabha elections and riding the Modi wave defeated NCP stalwart Praful Patel by over 2 lakh votes.
 
 He seems to have made up his mind not to contest Lok Sabha elections again and stay in state politics to fight the next assembly polls.
 
 The low-key announcement has surprised many giving impression that Ashok Chavan camp cut him to size. Patole, however, insisted that he was given full respect while being re-inducted and also insisted that Rahul Gandhi’s visit to Bhandara would surely happen in February.
 
 
