Bengaluru: The Utkrisht Double-Decker Air-conditioned Yatri Express ( ), set to run between Coimbatore and Bengaluru, is swanky. It is fitted with bio-toilets and boasts Wi-Fi and dining space, automatic food vending machines and large LCD screens for infotainment. It is specially designed to cater to the business class, and yet, the business community is not particularly enthused.

  officials say the train, now parked in Coimbatore, has already completed tests. The launch has been delayed due to the election code of conduct. However, the proposed timing of the train has put possible passengers off. The UDAY Express is scheduled to depart Bengaluru at 2:15pm and reach Coimbatore at 9pm. The return train will depart Coimbatore at 5:40am and reach Bengaluru at 12:40pm. Most passengers, however, say they would prefer an overnight train.
 
 Thousands of passengers travel between Bengaluru and Coimbatore every day and the number of trains between the two cities barely meets demand. Passengers therefore are at the mercy of private bus operators, who charge exorbitant fares especially on weekends.
 
 "This train would have more useful if it was introduced as an overnight train,” said Prakash Mandoth, chairman (tourism and infrastructure committee),   and Industry (FKCCI). “Most people prefer to travel during the night since it is convenient. There will be higher passenger patronage for this train if it is operated as an overnight train."
 
 T P Lokesh of the Karnataka Railway Vedike, an NGO campaigning for better services, said: “Timings of UDAY express between Bengaluru and Coimbatore is unlikely to help passengers because of the terrible timings. There is a long pending demand for an overnight train between these two cities.”
 
 Srikanth V‏, a regular passenger on this route, claimed the train was too slow. “It takes about six hours to drive between Bengaluru and Coimbatore,” he said. “If this train is meant to cater to the business community, a seven-hour ride does not help. It needs to be speeded up.”
 
  officials said they cannot make it an overnight train due to operational constrains. “The existing infrastructure is not sufficient to operate additional services as there are several night trains now,” the official said. “The   has already approved the timing and it has been included in the railway timetable.”
 
 
