LUCKNOW: Chief minister   on Monday reviewed the steps being taken by the government to pursue over 1,000   signed during the recently concluded Investors' Summit. 

 The CM has directed all concerned departments to prepare a plan to ensure that the MoUs get translated into actual work on ground. "The CM said those sector-wise policies that have not yet been cleared, should be presented before the cabinet on priority. For those policies where a government order is needed, he has given 15 days to complete the task. He has stressed that only those facilities and sops offered in the policies should be provided to industries and that one should resist from offering sops on a case to case basis," said an official.
 
 The CM has further directed that the 'One district, one product' policy should be linked with central schemes like Mudra Yojana and Start-Up India. Traditional craftsmen should also be trained under the Skill Development Mission.
 
 An official said the drafts of the aerospace and defence policy, the pharmaceutical policy and electronic vehicles policy were ready while policies were being prepared for general start-up and sick units.
 
 The CM was also informed that in the past five days, 235 persons had registered on the government's newly launched Nivesh Mitra website.
 
 Meanwhile, the industrial development department is taking special care to ensure that the suggestions given by Prime Minister   during the inaugural event of the Investors' Summit are implemented at the earliest.
 
 "The PM's speech has been carefully listened to and the suggestions that he made have been distributed department wise for better implementation. He gave a roadmap for a new UP and we have started work to implement that," said infrastructure and industrial development commissioner  .
 
 The suggestions included greeting investors with a red carpet and not red-tapism, increasing employment in the MSME sector among others. Meanwhile, officials said Rs 7,436 crore had been pledged to the textile industry under 29 MoUs and a committee has been formed to give a concrete structure to these MoUs. 
 
