KOCHI: Physical education class, which had taken a backseat in higher classes for several years, will now be enforced in all   schools. The board, in its latest directive, suggested that all affiliated schools must allot at least one period for health and physical education (HPE) in the daily timetable. Though schools in the state are excited by the announcement, they are apprehensive how the existing timetable will have to be tweaked to ensure a slot for HPE.

 “CBSE’s education scheme includes physical and mental development of students. For mental development several programmes have been initiated and implemented, but in the case of physical development, what is offered is not up to the mark. Though it is mandatory for schools to have a playground, some don't have this requisite infrastructure. The new directive is appreciable and it should be properly utilized by school and students,” said president of   TPM Ibrahim Khan.
  
  
 Since HPE must be implemented on a daily basis, it is important for CBSE to also specify how schools must place these periods without affecting academics. CBSE has prepared 150-page guidelines on HPE implementation. From now, schools will have to mark attendance and grade the student’s performance, which will later be sent to CBSE.
 
 Last year, when   minister Prakash Javadekar launched the physical health and fitness profile card that evaluated a student’s physical health development as part of the 'Swasth Bachche Swasth Bharat’ programme at Kendriya Vidyalaya NAD, Kalamasserry, Ernakulam, the minister had said that a similar system to evaluate physical health will be introduced in all schools of the country.
 
 After one year of implementing the Swasth Bachche Swasth Bharat scheme, principal of Kendriya Vidyalaya Port Trust Maya George said: “It is progressing well and we are planning the next stage. We expect to do a more comprehensive form of evaluation next year. At present, KVs have 2 hours and 20 minutes of PE every week up to Class XII. With the new directive, we will have to see how the new system works out.”
 
 In the KV system, if a student’s fitness level improves compared to the previous year, his/her grade will increase.
 
  in Kochi Father Anthony M said: “HPE is important for students. But there are several questions over its implementation. It would be a challenge to manage this dedicated hour. But the proposed reduction in CBSE syllabus might wok to our advantage. Ideally this compulsory class is a move in the right direction. I hope the guidelines will cover our queries.” Meanwhile, president of   K Unnikrishnan said: “It’s only an hour and I’m confident schools will find a way. Students in classes IX and XII have no time to engage in physical actives outside school as they have a lot to study. It is good move on CBSE's part to make this a compulsory period.”
 
