PATNA: Governor   on Sunday stressed upon the importance of   and training in modern times. “Technologies change every few months. So, there is a dire need of organizing such events to keep the budding minds abreast with the latest development in the field of technology,” said Malik at the concluding ceremony of the three-day state-level skill competition — India Skills-Bihar 2018 — at Veterinary College ground here. 

 The event was organized by   (BSDM) in association with   (NSDC). The competition was inaugurated by CM Nitish Kumar on April 20. 
 
 Industries, science and technology minister Jai Kumar Singh and labour resources minister  , along with development commissioner Shishir Sinha also attended the event. 
 
 The governor distributed prizes among the 26 winners of the competition. The winners in each trade of the competition were awarded with a prize money of Rs25,000, while the first runner-up received Rs11,000 and the other participants were awarded Rs5,000 each.
 
 The participants competed in as many as 26 skills like bakery, brick laying, CNG mining, beauty therapist, mobile robotics, fashion technology, IT software solutions, hairdressing, car painting, electronics, welding, etc. The competition gave the participants an opportunity to showcase both traditional and advanced skills. People from all backgrounds were invited to participate, irrespective of their educational qualifications. In each of 26 trades, six applicants were selected after a two-level screening process. Winners of state-level competition will be eligible to participate in the regional level as well as national level competitions. Winners of national competition will represent the country in the ‘World Skills Competition’ to be held in Kazan, Russia in 2019.
 
 Minister Singh emphasized the need for skill development in new subjects to meet the growing demands from the industry. He said the aim of skill India is to meet employers’ needs of skills and to prepare workers for a decent livelihood. “The recurring theme is to focus on youths of the country,” he said.
 
 Speaking on the occasion, development commissioner said the event was an encouraging step and would bridge the gap between demand and skills.
 
 
