One spends hours and sometimes months in selecting that perfect lehenga for their D-day. But post-wedding, most of us neatly fold it and wrap it up in a cloth and stack it in our wardrobes. One might not want to wear it again as its heavy embellishments might make it look OTT for other occasions. However, Jaipur’s young brigade and fashion designers are finding ways to recycle and reuse their shaadi ka joda and flaunt it at others occasions, too. 

  
 
 
 Fashion designer   says, “Most girls do not want to repeat their clothes, especially their  , except on a few occasions like Karwa Chauth. So, now we have started designing the wedding trousseau in such a way that it can be reused. Our lehengas are designed in such a way that it can be easily turned into an evening gown or an anarkali kurta.”
 
 City-based fashion designer   adds, “Despite knowing that they will hardly wear their wedding lehenga again, most girls end up spending hefty amounts on buying one. So, now I give them an option to experiment with their wedding trousseau. With a little creativity, one wedding dress can be easily transformed into three to four different dresses. The same lehenga can be worn with a long kurta or can be paired with a sherwani complimented with a net dupatta.” Fashion designer Pallavi Murdia says, “In fact, these days we get a lot of requests from young brides-to-be in the city who want to utilise old and heavy saris of their mothers or grandmothers that haven’t been touched for years and turn them into lehengas, kurtas or fusion wear.”
 
 
 
 
 Newlywed Eneet Pareek says, “My wedding lehenga weighs almost 15 kg and is heavily embellished, so it wasn’t something which could be worn frequently. Rather than stacking it in my wardrobe, I decided to give it a twist. Now, I team up my fish-cut lehenga with a simple silk kurta. On other occasions, I have worn the heavily embellished blouse with a plain chanderi silk or a chiffon sari. I am also planning to utilise the dupatta by making a kurta out of it.”
 
  
  Pooja in her shaadi ka joda (left) and in an anarkali suit (right) made out of her lehenga
 
 
 City-based blogger   says, “I spent a lot of time and energy in selecting lehengas for my wedding and sangeet ceremony. Although a lot of sentiments are attached with these lehengas, I got bored of wearing the same outfits and carrying the same look on different occasions. So, I decided to make an anarkali suit out of one of them, without changing its base.”
 
  
  Neha Jagtani in her sari gown that has been made out of her wedding lehenga
 
 
 Neha Jagtani, a resident of Tilak Nagar, tells us, “Post-wedding, my lehenga with heavy zardozi work had been lying around, untouched, in my closet. Since it was quite heavy, I could wear it only on rare occasions. I used to feel bad that such a precious thing was just lying about and losing its sheen. I discussed this my designer, and we decided to give it a contemporary twist. While the lehenga has been turned into an evening gown, the blouse and the dupatta have been transformed into a sari gown. For the sari gown, we have used a royal blue satin skirt and added Mughal motifs to it. We have attached a piece of cloth to the heavily-embellished blouse to give it the look of a kurti and the dupatta is draped in such a manner that it looks like the pleats of a sari.”
 
 
 
