CHANDIGARH: The fire and emergency services department of the municipal corporation ( ) would prepare a computerised record of commercial properties, its fire safety status and vulnerability in a first of its kind move in the city.

 The civic body at the moment lacks exact information of the total number of commercial buildings in the city. It will physically cover each place to get the details.
 
 The decision was taken in a meeting under the chairmanship of additional municipal commissioner-cum-chief fire officer   held last week. All the fire officers had been issued orders to carry out the exercise scheduled to begin next week.
 
 Identification of vulnerable commercial areas of the city, congested entry and exit points, market places and issues regarding smooth entry of fire tenders in case of fire are crucial components of the exercise. The goal is that the authority can plan and take required measures in advance to   as soon as possible.
 
 The authority is also considering to keep a check on buildings regarding measures they have taken to deal with fire.
 
 “We have decided to prepare a computerised record of all commercial buildings. The fire wing employees and officials have been given orders in this regard. Since we don’t have an exact number of the current commercial buildings in the city or any other related data, we want to first prepare computerised data of each commercial building. Later, we will incorporate other aspects like record of notices and action taken against violation of  ,” said Anil Kumar Garg, additional municipal commissioner-cum-chief fire officer, MC.
 
 Sources in the fire department said since most of the buildings of the city are constructed with the old architectural plan, they can reconstruct their buildings after submitting a revised building plan in the estate office, in order to incorporate fire safety measures.
 
 MAIN ANOMALIES 
 
 1 There are no separate entry and exit points in most of the commercial buildings and offices in the city
 
 2 Since all commercial areas and offices are surrounded by parking lots, there is little space to reach the buildings in case of fire
 
 3 Staircases in the buildings are narrow. Moreover, power meters are installed just along these stairs, increasing the danger
 
 4 Encroachments in commercial buildings and offices eat up space meant for entry and exit
 
 5 Inflammable material is dumped in many buildings of the city 
 
 6 Many commercial buildings do not have fire extinguishers and lack other fire-fighting equipment 
 
 
