A three-point burst at a crucial juncture powered PV Sindhu into the semifinals of the All England   Championships in Birmingham on Friday. Sindhu and   were involved in a one hour 24 minute classic in which the Indian got the better of the world champion 20-22, 21-18, 21-18. The top shuttlers dished out a virtual treat to the fans.

 
 Trailing 12-16 in the decider, a fighting Sindhu made a splendid comeback to reach her maiden semifinal at the Arena Birmingham. Sindhu kept her composure and came up with a couple of powerful crosscourt drives, a reverse slice and a half smash to draw level with Okuhara. At 17-17, Sindhu was cautioned with a yellow card for wasting time.
 
 But the 22-year-old did not lose her focus. At 18-18, Sindhu induced the Japanese into an unforced error. Both shuttlers were then involved in a fierce net battle in which the Indian prevailed. Up two match points, Sindhu took a risk by pushing the shuttle towards the line. Much to her delight, the bird kissed the line. The world No.3 will face the winner of the quarterfinal between Carolina Marin and Akane Yamaguchi.
 
 Sindhu was happy to pull off another tough win against Okuhara. “It’s just like the World championships match. We played 10 times and I won five times. We know each other’s game well, so every point was very important. I am happy that I actually fought back and won. I have to focus on recovering well for the big match tomorrow," Sindhu said.
 
 
 
 K Srikanth was upset with the service umpire after he lost a close match to China's Huang Yuxiang at 11-21, 21-15, 20-22. Leading 20-18, the third-seeded Indian failed to find the winner in the third game before Huang wrapped it up. Srikanth said he could have done better at 20-18. “I played well but I could have done better at 20-18. I missed out on those two big points,” said Srikanth.
 
 “But I am surprised at the service faults. There were too many service faults in the first game. I didn't expect that to happen. Yesterday (in the first round) I didn't get even one but it changed totally today. This should not happen in a tournament. It is ridiculous,” Srikanth said.
 
 According to new service rule, the shuttle should be below 1.15 metres from the surface of the court at the time of being hit.
 
