Chennai: A major revamp of the DMK is on the cards in the wake of complaints pouring in from cadres against many district secretaries during their meetings with party working president M K Stalin.

 Stalin has been holding one-on-one interactions with party cadres from February 1, and has asked them to use a drop box at the party headquarters to vent their grievances against party functionaries.
 
 For cadres, it has proved to be a safe mode of complaining about their district secretaries. Sources said Stalin had urged them to focus on ground work for an immediate election. Many cadres TOI spoke to were excited about having interacted and lunched with Stalin.
 
 “Thalapathi (Stalin) has been hearing out grievances of lower level cadres at the party headquarters Anna Arivalayam. They discuss their problems openly. Some use the complaint box to air their grievances. Daily, at least 100 complaints are dropped in the box,” said a senior DMK leader.
 
 The complaints are then sorted and taken to Stalin’s knowledge. “Thalapathi (Stalin) has told the cadres to concentrate on the ground level work and strengthen the party and leave their grievances against the district secretaries and other functionaries to him to handle. The review meetings will go on till March 15 and after that the party headquarters will take a decision on changing the district secretaries,” said the leader.
 
 Most of the complaints are about self-promotion of the district secretaries. “Many district secretaries project only themselves or their cronies. This has affected the morale of lower level cadres who feel left out in the decision-making process,” said the leader. There are also complaints of district secretaries trying to boost the membership by including bogus names.
 
 Reaction of district secretaries is mixed. Some are scared of getting removed and others are confident of convincing Stalin. “Some of the cadres from my district complained about me in the meeting. Thalapathi looked at me and also said however close a person is to him, when it comes to bringing in discipline in the party, he would not hesitate to take action. I have worked hard for the party and am ready to make amends,” said a district secretary.
 
 Meanwhile, Stalin is using the meetings with cadres to identify people for booth-level committees. “Thalapathi has ordered formation of 20-member polling booth committees across the state. The committee will consist of 5 women, 5 senior party cadres and 10 youth. This is to garner support of all sections in the local body elections,” the leader said.
 
 
