NEW DELHI:   threatens Shah Jahan’s  . After being   by the   of the mosque,   began   on the   and other structures sometime ago. But things came to a  . 
 
 “It took ASI up to two months just to get the scaffoldings in place around the central dome. Then they worked for around 10 days to refill the gaps between the stones with new masala (a medieval substitute for concrete). But suddenly work was stopped. The labourers were gone and nobody said a thing,” said Syed Tariq Bukhari, general secretary of the advisory council of Jama Masjid. 
 
 Work has been halted for about two weeks, and Bukhari said this was worrying because the rains would arrive in about two months. “Time is of essence and the work on the central dome needs to be finished at least before the rainy season. All the domes, gateways, especially the northern and southern gates, have been damaged due to water seepage. This issue has to be addressed before monsoon hits Delhi or the mosque will be damaged further,” Bukhari said. 
 
 ASI officials, however, dismissed the concerns. “Work has not been stopped and we are very aware of the problems facing Jama Masjid. The work has been halted for a few days only because a new financial year started from April 1. We are in the midst of sorting out funding issues and working out project details for this fiscal. But we will restart work soon and address the water seepage problem before monsoon,” said a senior official.
 
 The preparatory work was started in January. Pits were dug for making lime. Then the scaffoldings were placed around the sensitive central dome that has developed cracks. “The masala which holds the stones together in the central dome went missing due to time and needed to be refilled. There is evidence of cracks too. The structure has shown serious signs of neglect and age,” said an official. 
 
 Jama Masjid’s custodians claimed that ASI has only covered about 200 square feet of the dome. “The entire dome will take a few weeks and we just want them to start work again at the earliest. There are other parts of the masjid that also need attention,” said Bukhari.
 
 Union culture minister Mahesh Sharma had earlier told the Rajya Sabha that the Jama Masjid isn’t an ASI-protected monument but ASI has taken up conservation work at the request of the Shahi Imam, who had highlighted that the 17-century monument was at serious risk.
 
 
