LUCKNOW: Chief minister   has ruled out closure of madrassas and said that shutting them down was no solution. In his address at the 'Vikas  ' (Development coordination meeting) of minority affairs ministers from nine states and   Territories, Yogi said that there was need to modernise madrassas instead of shutting them down. 

 The meeting was chaired by Union minister for minority affairs  .
 
 While elaborating on modernisation of madrassas, in what is being seen as his first minority outreach bid, the chief minister said that  ,  ,   should be included in curriculum as only modern education can help build good future of students. 
 
 "I have been saying this about Sanskrit schools too; that they should modernise as per the current needs," the CM said. "Without good education, students don't get jobs and are prone to get misguided. They are unable to nurture their talent and channelise their energy and fail to contribute to nation building," he said.
 
 
 
 
 While stressing that quality education was solution to many ills, Yogi Adityanath praised Union minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi’s contribution. He saidthat several schemeshave been initiated by minority affairs ministry.
 
 Yogi said that his government was working for the uplift of poor and downtrodden without any kind of bias. UP government is working for the betterment of society and believes in development of all, he said.
 
 Earlier, Naqvi said that the agenda of minority affairs department was to provide good education to all, with special focus on girl education.
 
 Naqvi said that inclusive growth was a commitment of Union government. He said that high drop out rate among minority children, especially girls, was a matter of concern and the government is making all efforts to curb it. He said that 2.42 crore students have been given scholarship since 2014 and addedthat 40% to50% scholarships would go to girls. Naqvi also praised UP government and said that there was better coordination now than used to be earlier.
 
