Sarita Mukherjee, a homemaker, recently purchased her dream home after struggling for years on end. “The joy of viewing your own name plate outside your house is unparalleled and incomparable. The emotion can simply not be expressed in words,” she mentions. However, amidst all the celebration there is one thing bothering her. She adds, “I cannot wait to start decorating the house, but I don’t know where to start from.” One of the major bones of contentions for   is the choice of furniture.

 How does she pick good quality wood for the furniture? How does she make sure she is not cheated? What are the criterias that distinguish good quality wood from a low quality wood? Well, if you are also bogged down by similar questions, let our experts guide you so that you make the correct choice for your home.
 
 Shantanu Garg, founder,  , explains top three criteria that one should keep in mind before buying wood: 
 
 
 The strength and weight of the wood gives an indication about its density. Denser wood is best for furniture and building, while less dense wood can be used in making aircrafts, woodworking project, and even making paper.
 
 
 Texture is a wood property that determines the condition of the surface and its stability. It plays an important role in deciding how a wood is finished.
 
 
  This quality contributes in enhancing the personality of the wood. For example,   will give you a very different look and character than White Pine.
 
 Hence, experts strongly believe that durability, strength and stability will help an individual decide on the kind of wood s/he should purchase.
 
 Reiterating a similar line of thought, Suman Shah, director,   Timber, mentions the key factors differentiating a low quality wood from a high quality wood. “Timber that does not have durability and shrinks a lot, is considered low quality. On the other hand, timber with good density, durability and stability is considered the best.”
 
 
  An excellent quality of wood (which is used to carve out beautiful pieces of furniture) can last for a century so it is important that one takes the time to select the right kind of wood. So what are the key indicators for judging a high quality wood?  , director,  , breaks it down for us, “The criteria for selecting good quality wood furniture will always come down to two key distinguishers - quality and construction.”
 
 
 Quality furniture is generally made out of hardwood, which comes from deciduous trees like oak, maple, mahogany, teak, walnut, cherry and birch. When one looks for quality wood, one first needs to consider the type of wood and whether it will be durable in the long-run. Besides, other signs to look out for are better joints and reliability.
 
 
 Construction of the furniture plays a major role in judging for how long the piece will last. The joining of wooden components and durability of a piece tells a lot about its quality. Mortise and Tenon and Dovetails are two ways, which are ancient and guarantee a strong and visually appealing piece of furniture that can last long.
 
 With these suggestions, you can sure figure out what ‘wood’ work best for your home!
 
 
 
 1. First, identify if the wood you are looking to purchase is hard wood or a wood compost (made to look like wood)
 
 2. Depending on its usage ensure that the wood has the right density, durability, moisture content and nailing properties
 
 3. Check on the joints, the sturdiness and other finer details before finalising on the wood
 
 4. Each tree has its own grain pattern (wood grain is the direction in which the wood cell fibres grow), so two boards of the same species can look very different. These variances in grain direction can have a significant impact on your project. Pick wisely.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
