UDUPI: BJP national president   is all set to unleash his cyber soldiers during the polls. But there’s a major problem — they don’t have information at their fingertips.

 This came forth during his interaction with his foot soldiers during the Social Media Conclave in Udupi on Wednesday. Shah said going on the offensive is the best strategy to counter the Karnataka government and it can be done with various welfare and development schemes of the Narendra Modi government.
 
 When the audience failed to list at least 15 of the 112 schemes of the Modi government, a visibly upset Shah asked: “When you yourself don’t know (the schemes of PM), how will you reach it to the people?”
 
 The master strategist of the 2014 Uttar Pradesh polls, where the social media plan became a talking point among all political parties, said: “Many media houses analysed our strategy. One said it was effective use of social media. That was only one part of it. From 2014 to 2018, there is a vast difference. In 2014, we were in the opposition and now we’re ruling. In Karnataka, we’re still in the opposition and that makes things easy for us to go on the offensive.’’ Shah’s strategy includessegregating theschemes segmentwise, prioritizing them and bombarding them on social media till it reaches the grass-roots. Cyber soldiers at the venue had another major issue – how to counter queries on Nirav Modi, Vijay Mallya and the Mahadayi issue. Shah’s reply again was to be hostile and not to let one’s guard down. “I have answered regarding   (you take a cue). Regarding Mahadayi, Yeddyurappa will solve it once we come to power,’’ he said with a smile. But, he wondered why his cyber-army had to be defensive on this account.
 
 “This is not the question you should ask me. The   has been in power for the past five years. Ask them. Bombard them. You should be asking the Karnataka government, not me,’’ he said.
 
 Shah also suggested there should be two teams – one to create content and another to disseminate it.
 
