Delhi's food and weather is the favourite of many celebrities. It is no different for TV actor  . "Even after living in Mumbai for so long, I miss the weather here. Delhi winters are so beautiful," said Sikandar, who visited the city for the launch of his show, ' '. The actor, who hails from Delhi and has been living in Mumbai for the last 15 years, recalled his days in DU and his childhood dream of becoming an actor. "I miss a lot of things about Delhi, my life started here but I have worked in Mumbai for so long that now you can call me a Mumbaikar," he said. 

 
  Reminiscing his days in  , Sikandar said, "I used to have a lot of fun in my college days. Venky is the best college in South Campus and has the best crowd. I studied in Mount St Mary's School, which was not a co-ed, and then maine Venky ki ladkiyan dekhi. I used to be so scared! I thought they will bully me, but they were very cool. I genuinely miss those three beautiful years of my life."
 Sikandar's acting journey began in college when the manager of the college’s theatre group told him that he speaks very well. "He was starting this play called Sutradhar, I didn't even know the meaning of that word. I started going for rehearsals and continued with that group for seven-eight months before going to Mumbai. And that's how it started."
 
  
  Sikandar relishing golgappas in Bengali Market
 
 
 
 
 
  Since his college was in Chanakyapuri, Sinkandar calls it his favourite bunking adda. "I studied in Chanakyapuri and most of my friends lived there, so we would hang out in the areas around Chanakyapuri and also at   cinema. We used to bunk classes and go watch films. We were not very mischievous though," he laughed.
 Although the actor calls himself a Mumbaikar now, there is one thing that he missed the most initially after shifting to the city – his parents. "I wanted to take my parents to Mumbai with me ever since I moved there. I have them there now, so it feels complete. My extended family and cousins are here, so somehow, I am always connected to both the places. I am still in touch with my school friends. I was in Noida for a New Year party at my cousin’s place, and then went to Patel Nagar."
 Sikandar also shared his school memories with us. "I was a huge sports enthusiast back in school. I used to play cricket, football and participate in almost all the sports. I was a balanced kid and loved playing outdoor games. Aaj bhi mere friends se poocho, bolenge yeh sports mein bahut accha tha," he added. 
 
 
 
  Sikandar decided to become an actor way back in school. "I took the decision of becoming an actor when I was in Class XII. I told my father back then that I wanted to move to Mumbai and don't wish to attend college, which he did not agree to. He wanted me to graduate first," he shared. He also recalled his days of struggle, saying, "When I went to Mumbai, I did not know anything about the city. For the first time, I lived in a PG and travelled in locals, got rejected at auditions. I thought of returning to Delhi many times, but this was destined. I don't know from where   saw my work and I got a call from her production house and my journey started with 'Kahaani Ghar Ghar Kii'. Mumbai mein apne aap grow karna padta hai, koi meri help kar dega aisa kuch nahi hota. You need to trust yourself."
 
 -- Aurushi.Goswami@timesgroup.com
 
 
  
 
 
