CAPE TOWN: Exactly a week after this Test series between South Africa and India gets over,   will turn 28 years old. It'll be 10 years to the week when he had first arrived on the scene as a 19-year-old and handed the great   his first First-Class duck in the Ranji final that year. It was his first handshake with fame.

 
 
 That was 2009, one of his finest seasons in the domestic circuit. It took him another three good years to earn the India cap. A lot more would happen in the interim, his 128 in the Duleep Trophy semi-final of 2012 for instance, a match-winning knock taking him further to the India doorstep. Down the line, he'd even make a wretched India tour of England in 2014 look good on the personal front with 19 wickets.
 
 
 
 
 Yet, the day of absolute reckoning would take its time coming, just the way his deliveries - with the old ball or new - taking their bit of time in dipping into the right hander or moving away, just the way he made one seam away from   and then made seam into Aiden Markram with some exceptional swing.
 
 Bhuvi's brightest of moments came on Friday at the Newlands. He stood as tall as the Table Mountain that was witness to his special day. India took tea a little after 50 overs, having restricted South Africa to just 230-7 and he was a wicket short of a fifer after bowling 14 overs for 63 runs.
 
 On Friday afternoon, Bhuvi turned out to be Virat's Man Friday not because he gave India the early breakthrough on a seam-friendly morning. Having picked the first three of South African wickets - two caught behind and a leg-before - he strolled back yet again just before tea to get rid of  .
 
 Following the day's leader were two young men, the first still a relatively a new cog in the Indian line-up and the other who had received his Test cap only a few hours ago.
 
 Jasprit Bumrah, the day's debutant, ended up making   his maiden Test wicket and that alone made his debut worth the occasion. De Villiers, looking dangerous as ever at 65 off 84 balls, failed to connect in line with a full-length delivery and an inside edge ended his innings. The thud on the wood was enough to see Bumrah raise his hands and head towards the sky, as if praying to the mountain god to appreciate the moment. It was a breakthrough India desperately needed this afternoon.
 
 
