NASHIK: Following apprehension that the civic administration could send the general body's resolution on property tax increase to the state government for cancellation, the ruling   said they could approach the chief minister on the issue. 

 Municipal commissioner Tukaram Mundhe had recommended an increase of 33% to 82% in property but the standing committee sent a resolution for 18% raise in tax.
 
 Mayor Ranjana   said she and other BJP leaders and MLAs would speak to the chief minister in case the resolution is sent for cancellation. 
 
 She and other BJP leaders were addressing media persons on Tuesday on the eve of completing one year in office. 
 
 "We have sent to the municipal secretary the administration's proposal of 18% increase that the standing committee has approved," Bhansi said.
 
 A senior   official, however, said the administration has not sent any recommendation to the government so far. 
 
 Looking back at the BJP's one-year tenure in NMC, Bhansi said that to make   a smart city they have started renovation of Kalidas Kala Mandir, Mahatma Phule Kaladalan, and Nehru Garden.
 
 "The tender for Rs 14-crore smart road, Project   and CCTV have been floated. Amrut gardens at   and Tavli Phata will soon be completed. Out of the 12 water storage tanks proposed, work order for eight are given," Bhansi said.
 
 About the controversial proposal of Rs 257 crore for road works that are yet to start, she said the project was approved but the work order was pending. 
 
 The party also claimed that construction of the sewage treatment plants at Gangapur Road and Pimpalgaon Khamb were initiated by them. 
 
 "Tender process for 100-km pipeline worth Rs 41 crore for supplying water has started. Work order for 100 gardens has been given. Also, for the first time in NMC, the corporator's funds has been increased to Rs 75 lakh," she said, adding that in the coming year she would develop the rural areas of the city and complete all pending works.
 
 "I will also get underground electric cables laid in the entire city," Bhansi said.
 
 
