Nagpur: Naresh Gaikwad, former head of pharmaceutical sciences department at Nagpur University (NU), has written to chancellor C Vidyasagar Rao and education minister Vinod Tawde apprising them of the pending plea regarding alleged illegal appointment of NU Pro-VC  , who is among final five candidates for post of Mumbai University vice-chancellor and also appeared in interview for Solapur University VC post as well on Tuesday.

 The ex-HoD actually warned that in case Yeole was appointed as Mumbai University’s VC, he would be moving the court against the appointment. Gaikwad preferred to call his letter a ‘legal notice’ to the chancellor and education minister.
 
 In a detailed report dated June 14, 2016, the joint director of higher and technical Education, Nagpur, had noted that Yeole’s appointment was “not as per norms” while rejecting his claim for higher pay. On September 18, 2016, TOI had reported on Yeole’s appointment row and followed up the issue with the governor’s office, who is chancellor of universities. As on date, there is no clarity on the issue as TOI queries were never answered.
 
 Meanwhile, Gaikwad had been pursuing the case and had written to the chancellor on several occasion in the last two years. On the other hand, Yeole had challenged the joint director’s report in Nagpur bench of Bombay high court on March 24, 2017. “HC didn’t stay the report or grant any relief in favour of Yeole. Thus, the report still persists and the appointment of Yeole as lecturer, associate professor and principal has been found illegal,” Gaikwad’s letter reads.
 
 Yeole didn’t answer TOI’s calls.
 
 Citing the joint director report, Gaikwad said 10 years’ experience as principal or professor at degree college was must for appointment as pro-VC. “Yeole has shown 17 years’ experience by clubbing his 10-year experience as principal of a diploma college. AICTE rules changed in 2010 but can’t be applied to Yeole’s case in retrospect,” he said. 
 
 Gaikwad said on Tuesday he has filed an intervention in the case in which Yeole has challenged the joint director’s report in 2017. “In case the chancellor ignores my complaints and names him VC of either of the universities, I will move the court against him,” he said.
 
 Chancellor’s PRO Umesh Kashikar said he could confirm about the letter only on Wednesday. 
 
 
