MUMBAI: So what’s all the noise about? Well, the number of spots in Mumbai deemed worthy of protection as silence zones is down to about 10% of the original number.

 The   recently published a list of 110 silence zones, sparking off a strong reaction from activists who say key spots have been left out.
 
 
  
 While the civic body insists that this is the first of many lists, anti-noise campaigners are worried that several hospitals and educational institutes will be left unprotected in the interim.
 
 A   is an area within a 100m radius of institutes like hospitals, schools and courts. Noise levels in these areas cannot exceed 45 dB during the day and 40 dB during night. In August last year, the Centre abolished the 1,157 silence zones in the city. The BMC then submitted a fresh list of silence zones to the urban development department that notified it. The list which had not been made public, recently came to the notice of anti-noise crusaders who have slammed the civic body for all the exclusions.
 
 “The BMC had a list of around 1,000 spots which were notified. They could have worked around the same list. All the locations in that list are very crucial,” said Sumaira Abdulali, convener of  . While the silence zones in the previous list were drawn up in consultation with citizens and ALMs in every ward, the process wasn’t followed this time. BMC officials said this is the first phase of the process. “This is the first list of 110 locations identified with inputs from individual wards. More locations will be added to the list soon,” said Suprabha Marathe, deputy chief engineer of BMC’s environment department.
 
 Abdulali said the delay could be harmful. “Several major hospitals have been left out of the list. The first list almost took five months to be made public. Going by this timeline, it could take a lot more time for all the hospitals to be notified as silence zones. Meanwhile, the silence zone rules will not apply to these areas and it could be harmful to patients,” she said.
 
 
