MADURAI: Divisional railway manager,   announced that major works to provide a facelift to Madurai junction is underway and the junction will look very different from what it appears at present. Ittyerah was addressing the III Executive Meeting of 94 year of   on Monday.

 Delivering her chief guest address, she stated that the division has submitted blue prints for the proposed improvement of the junction for both eastern and western entries. Not many trains could be accommodated at the last platform where there is western entry and this issue will be resolved with doubling of Madurai –   – Kanyakumari project, since there is major yard remodeling works planned as part of doubling works and the platform will be upgraded to receive all type of trains. At eastern entry, the entry and exit points would be shifted and taxis will be moved further and premium parking will be provided to passengers. Along with ministry of tourism and ministry of railways, these works are planned and will begin shortly, she said.
 
 The multifunctional complex that has been lying unused for many years now, will be put into use since the leasing works has been completed. DRM also placed a request to traders requesting their support as sponsors to improve aesthetic look of stations in the division. The division is planning to display the works of local artisans in the stations since thousands of people across the world pay a visit to railway stations of Madurai division, she mentioned.
 
 Sections beyond Tirunelveli have been identified as most dense route of traffic in Indian railways, which is why major works like doubling of sections between Madurai and Tirunelveli and Kanyakumari are taken up. Once completed, the doubling will be of great capacity improvement. Commenting on the pending stretches of doubling between Madurai and Trichy, DRM said that there were land acquisition issues which are being resolved. The remaining 23 km of doubling in this section will be completed by end of this financial year, she mentioned.
 
 
