PANAJI: The Goa   Management Corporation (GWMC) plans to set up a few waste management collection centres at vantage points across the state. The move is aimed at tackling the numerous dumping sites that have been mushrooming in public places and countering the lack of a systemic door-to-door collection facility. 

 Strategic spots along routes to urban areas, roadsides in villages and waterbodies are used by passers-by and garbage contractors to dump waste, either brazenly during the day, or clandestinely at night. The growing menace has not only been affecting Goa’s image as a popular tourist destination, but also reflects poorly on the lack of civic sense and inadequate waste management facilities.
 
 While experts in the field often suggest turning each dump site into a collection centre, GWMC managing director Sanjit Rodrigues says it is not feasible to do so. “We acknowledge the need for collection centres, as garbage collection in most villages is not fully set up yet. But we cannot convert every black spot into a collection centre as we don’t want the festering problem to grow,” he says. 
 
 Convener of Goa Civic and   (GOACAN),  , concurs. “We cannot convert an illegality into a legality by transforming black spots into collection centres. People are not handing over garbage at these spots but are dumping unsegregated waste,” he says.
 
 The enforcement of door-to-door collection of segregated garbage will soon see the end of black spots, Rodrigues says, as the measure is sustainable, eco-friendly and cost-effective. Also, with the new Solid Waste Management Rules 2016 being enforced across the country, indiscriminate dumping behind electricity transformers, near poles and along street corners is now being discouraged by the state government.
 
 “Collection centres will work if they are manned properly,” says K D Sadhale of Nirmal Vishwa, a Ponda-based NGO, explaining that garbage is often flung into bins and receptacles from passing vehicles, thereby messing up the vicinity.
 
 Emphasizing that citizens should be equally responsible where effective waste management is concerned, GOACAN plans to take the Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) concept to supermarkets and various brands. Under  , entities are asked to take back packaging of certain items from consumers, allowing these to be reused instead of being indiscriminately dumped. “There should be pressure from different agencies to implement this,” Martins says.
 
 Among the other measures suggested is the setting up of squads of empowered personnel at the municipality and panchayat level to issue a challans and fines to curb dumping. “The penalty should be higher for those setting fire to garbage,” Stephen Dias, a former NIO scientist, says. “The government must also screen short films regarding the malaise of littering at the very places where garbage is often dumped.” 
 
 
