Bengaluru: JD(S) rebel B Z Zameer Ahmad Khan, who resigned his assembly membership on Saturday, said he would behead himself if the regional party got an absolute majority in the 2018 assembly elections.

 Scheduled to join the Congress on Sunday in the presence of AICC president Rahul Gandhi, Ahmad vented his anger at JD(S) state president H D Kumaraswamy and claimed it was at the behest of the party leadership that he and six others had agreed to vote for Congress candidate KC Ramamurthy in the 2016 Rajya Sabha elections.
 
 “The party is claiming Kumaraswamy has mass appeal but we know he has none. If JD(S) wins 113 seats on its own, I’ll behead myself,” Ahmad told reporters here
 
 He added that the JD(S) leadership and Deve Gowda were anti-Muslim and hence he was forced to jump ship.
 
 “In our religion, we celebrate Bakrid where a sheep is slaughtered as Qurbani. However, in the case of B M Farook, Kumaraswamy and the JD(S) gave the former Qurbani twice! The party remembers the Muslims when they lose, but not when they have to select Muslims to a position. in a surplus position,’’ Ahmad said.
 
 He also gave an open invitation to Prajwal Revanna, son of Holenarsipura MLA H D Revanna and grandson of JD(S) national president H D Deve Gowda, to join them and the Congress.
 
 “I’ve always believed that Prajwal is a good worker at the grassroots level with a bright political future in JD(S). However, Kumaraswamy due to his insecurity, and despite being his uncle, has sidelined him. I’m ready to speak with the Congress and clear Prajwal’s name for induction,” he said.
 
 Ahmad said Kumaraswamy feared that if he gave a ticket to his wife Anitha to contest, he’d be forced to give a ticket to Prajwal. “As a result, he has denied both Prajwal and Anitha a ticket,” he said.
 
 In a press release, Kumaraswamy wished the outgoing rebels good luck in their political future. He added that they had betrayed the JD(S) by siding with Congress despite having won on the party symbol.
 
 “For any politician, a political party he represents is like his mother. But the seven MLAs did not consider even their “mother” while betraying it. While I wish them good luck for their future, I must question as to what message they are giving to the future generation of politicians?” he asked.
 
 
