In the latest episode of  , Dada ji tells the family members that in the pooja, that is going to be held,   will be Ipshita's mother and   will only act as Parth's wife.

 Bharat apologizes to Jalpa and aks him to give another chance for Jayu's sake. Jalpa says she will think about forgiving him on a condition. Bharat accepts and they hug it out.
 
 Shorvari consoles Parth that it doesn't matter who sits as his wife in the Pooja as both of them are his wives. Mohini overhears this and reports this to Dada ji. He decides to make things a little difficult for them and put them through a harsher test. He shares a plan with Indu and Mohini.
 
 The next morning, Indu tells Teni that Shorvari has already decided to sit in the pooja. Teni says Shorvari has a right over Parth. In the other room, Mohini tries to incite Shorvari against Teni by spreading lies that the latter is trying to take her place in her husband's life.
 
 Indu tells Teni that when Parth brought Shorvari as a wife no one accepted her, but she won her place in their hearts later. But unfortunately, Shorvari couldn't bear an heir for them. She tells her that if Teni doesn't sit in pooja she might harm Parth unknowingly as the pooja will not be successful.
 
 Meanwhile, Mohini tells Shorvari that Teni is after Bhanushali's money and that she must remember that she is Parth's wife and has a right over Ipshita as well. She insists that Shorvari must participate in pooja so that Ipshita stays healthy.
 
 Teni assures Indu that she will sit with Parth in the pooja and Shorvari, on the other hand, agrees with Mohini and says that she will sit in the pooja as Ipshita's mother.
 
  
 Both Indu and Mohini tell Dada ji's that they have spoken to Teni and Shorvari and have asked them to assert their position. Dada ji says that this will serve as the real test.
 
 Later in the day, Parth asks Teni if she told Shorvari about her decision to sit in the pooja. Teni says Shorvari won't mind and dismisses the topic. Parth fears that this might cause some serious misunderstandings between the three of them. Keep watching this space to know how they will fare in Dada ji's trial.
 
