BHOPAL: At least 1,100 ghosts are withdrawing   from the social justice department of MP. This fact came to light when government did a reality check on beneficiaries above 90. It appears to be just a tip of the iceberg and the number of dead or ineligible people withdrawing monthly pension could be much higher, said sources.

 
 In the second week of March, principal secretary  , directed the newly appointed integrated social security development officers to carry out a physical verification of the beneficiaries in the state.
 
 A team of around 235 officials were directed to go to the addresses of the beneficiaries to verify their credentials. In the survey, 906 pensioners were found dead, while 179 pensioners were not found on their addresses and are believed to have migrated to other places. Alarmed by the number of dead people drawing pension, the department of social justice, after the survey, has written to all district collectors, municipal commissioners, chief executive officers of district panchayat and janpad panchayats and municipal officers to carry out physical verification of people above 90 withdrawing pension from the department.
 
 Over 20,000 people in their nineties are paid a monthly pension of Rs 500 under the social security pension scheme by the state government.
 
 Over five per cent of the beneficiaries have been found to be dead in the survey conducted department. The number could go up when the authorities verify it at the district level. In a strong worded letter, the district authorities have been warned that they would be held responsible if a dead or ineligible person gets government pension.
 
 The government may have figured out the number of dead people above 90 years of age getting pension in the first round, but is unable to explain since when these dead and illegible people were getting the pension and action taken on those responsible for it. Officials said there are standing instructions to district officials, including the collectors, municipal commissioners, chief executive officers of district panchayat and janpad panchayats and municipal officers to carry out physical verification of the elderly people drawing government pension and it is the responsibility of district officials to ensure that no dead person gets the pension.
 
