Vadodara/Anand: Th Additional District Consumer Forum in Vadodara has ordered Jet Airways to compensate Dr Nikhil Zaveri, director general of Vallabh Vidyanagar-based Charutar Vidya Mandal (CVM), for charging him for excess luggage in 2014.

 Zaveri, a management professor, was charged extra for the check-in baggage even though he had requested the airline’s ground staff at Dehradun airport to allow him to transfer the extra luggage to cabin baggage. Zaveri had approached the consumer forum after his request was turned down by ground staff and the airlines refused to entertain his complaint in New Delhi.
 
 Zaveri had booked a flight from Dehradun for Delhi through Vandana Travels, a travel agent having its office in Sayajigunj. Zaveri, who had gone to Rushikesh with his wife, had his flight on November 8, 2014. On reaching the airport, the airline’s ground staff told him that he had excessive luggage for check-in and he would have to pay a fee of Rs 3,000. He and his wife were allowed to have 30 kg in check-in baggage and 14 kg of cabin baggage.
 
 Zaveri then asked the airline staff to allow him to transfer the excessive luggage in his cabin bag which had luggage much less than the permitted limit. But, according to Zaveri’s complaint, the airline staff did not listen to him and he had to shell out Rs 3,000 cash. 
 
 On reaching Delhi, Zaveri gave a written complaint to the airline but he never got response from them. Later, he approached the consumer forum against Jet Airways and Vandana Travel asking the airlines to pay him Rs 3,000 with nine per cent from the date of travel, Rs 40,000 towards mental agony, Rs 5,000 each towards cost of complaint and advocate fees.
 
 The airline argued that the incident took place at Dehradun airport and the forum does not have jurisdiction of the case. But Zaveri’s advocate argued that since the ticket was booked by the airline’s authorized agent in Vadodara and by the arbitrary act of the staff they failed in taking proper care of him therefore he should be compensated.
 
 The forum presided by K K Patel upheld Zaveri’s arguments and asked Jet Airways to pay Rs 3,000 with nine per cent interest from the date of travel and another Rs 1,500 towards mental agony.
 
 
