VADODARA/AHMEDABAD: As the mercury continued to rise across  , the maximum temperature reached 42 degrees celsius mark in at least seven towns and cities, making it unbearable for residents to venture out during the day. In Vadodara, the heat-related cases have gone up. From   to fainting and abdominal pain, the 108 emergency services has been getting many cases from the city.

 The SSG Hospital and private clinics have been receiving several cases of sunstroke over the last few days. The 108 emergency services has issued an advisory asking children and pregnant women to stay away from the sun. They have also conducted demos in different areas on steps to be taken if someone feels uneasy or falls unconscious.
 
 According to India Meteorological Department (IMD), Amreli and Rajkot towns in Saurashtra region were the hottest in Gujarat where maximum temperature soared to 43°C mark on Sunday. Another town of Saurashtra, Surendranagar, and the state capital Gandhinagar, followed Amreli and Rajkot as the two cities recorded 42.7° maximum temperature.
 
 On Sunday, Ahmedabad city too sizzled under the severe heat and the maximum temperature rose to 42.4°C — 1.1 degrees above normal. However, the night temperature remained almost normal at 26.3 degrees. Relative humidity ranged between 63% and 20% on Sunday due to which sweltering heat was experienced in the city. The extreme heat conditions were unbearable during the afternoon. Shop owners kept their shops closed in the afternoon and people preferred to remain indoors till late evening.
 
 The IMD said in its forecast that the maximum temperature of the city would remain around 43°C on Monday. However, there will be no change in maximum temperature in most of the towns of the state on Monday for the next two days.
 
 Doctors have advised people, especially elderly persons, kids and pregnant women to avoid direct exposure of sun in order to prevent sunstroke. Unbearable body pain, especially in forelimbs, unquenchable thirst, suffocation, dizziness, breathlessness and palpitations are among the common symptoms of heatstroke.
 
 
