NEW DELHI: According to a survey, India has the second-largest amount of tennis fans in the world after USA. It’s a trivia which is promising yet baffling at the same time. Since the retirement of Somdev Devvarman early last year, it has mostly been upto   and Ramkumar Ramanathan who have kept the future of men’s tennis alive in the country. Beyond that, who knows, is what the general consensus remains.

 However, an in-depth view provides a contrasting picture. TOI Sports analyses a few names that have created ripples at the junior circuit and hold tremendous potential to represent India in future.
 
 
 
 
 Siddhant Banthia is the current U-18 AITA number one and holds the highest junior   rank by an Indian, 41. In 2014, Banthia became the first Indian to win the Road to Wimbledon competition, in both singles and doubles categories. He is the first international Road to Wimbledon player to qualify for Juniors Wimbledon championships. He has been on the junior Davis Cup team, representing India internationally and has played all the ties for India in the junior category. The Pune boy had also participated in this year's Australian Open junior championships, where he lost in the round of 64 in the singles, while partnering Turkey's Kaya Gore, the duo lost in the quarterfinals of boys' doubles. In order to prepare for the US Open juniors tournament, Banthia joined the Mouratoglou Tennis Academy in 2017. Despite winning, he got injured and pulled out of the Rendez-Vous, allowing Abhimanyu Vannemreddy to come in as last-minute replacement.
 
 
 
 
  
  (Instagram/adil.kalyanpur)
 
 
 
 Ranked 7 in the country and 95 internationally, Adil Kalyanpur is currently on a three-year scholarship program at the Rafael Nadal Academy, Mallorca. Back in India, he trains under former Davis Cup player Vishal Uppal, in RK Khanna Sports Complex, New Delhi. In early 2017, he won his first ATP point in Spain and trained with the Indian Davis Cup team in Pune, for the tie against New Zealand. 
 
 “It has been an amazing experience. I have learnt and improved a lot. I hit with Rafa quite often when he is in town and that has helped me understand the kind of tennis that I am working towards. Watching him on TV and practicing with him are two very different things,” said Adil. 
 
 He has been kept away from the Grand Slams, with a distinct plan for grooming. Occasionally trained by Carlos Moya and Toni Nadal, Adil’s future seems promising. 
 
 
 
 
  
  (Instagram/abhivany)
 
 A known name in the national tennis circuit, Vannemreddy, currently ranked 3 in the U-18 category and 163 in the junior ITF section, is a national sensation. With consistent performance at the national level, he carved a niche for himself in May 2017, by winning himself a wild card entry to the junior French Open. The 17-year-old Abhimanyu tamed the fighting Japanese 6-1 4-6 6-1 in two hours and 15 minutes at court number six of Roland Garros, becoming the first Indian to ever win the tournament. 
 
 "It's great to see so many people back home enjoying this victory. To play in my first Grand Slam is great," added the 17-year-old, who is coached by Vivek Satyajit and has also worked with former Davis Cupper Vishal Uppal.
 
 
 
 
  
  (Instagram/dhruvsunish)
 
 Ranked fourth in the country and 112 internationally, Dhruv Sunish recently graduated from the junior to the pro circuit. Having started playing tennis at age of five, Sunish is fast becoming a prominent name in the national circuit. After playing the final in Chandigarh Grade three ITF Juniors in the first week of 2017 and having played the finals of two ITF Juniors in 2016 in India, title-hungry Sunish finally lifted the Tennis Championship Trophy in boys’ singles at the 25th edition at the Dakshin Kalikata Sansad. He is neck-and-neck in terms of performance with Banthia and Sharma, with the three of them overtaking each other now and then.
 
 
 
  
  (Instagram/sacchittsharrma02)
 
 Sacchitt Sharma was crowned U-18 national champion in October 2017. With a current national rank of five, Sharma impresses more with each game. Sharma, at 6’3’, under the watchful eyes of MD, Arif Khan – his childhood coach – trains everyday at 5.30 in the morning at the Mastermind Academy. Sharma and Banthia are the two most promising players on the circuit make for one heck of rivalry. Sacchitt made his first big impact two years ago when he won the UK under-14 championship in Wimbledon, after having topped the Road to Wimbledon contest in India. Quite interestingly, the players who had done well before him, Banthia and Kalyanpur have done well to be the top two juniors in the country.
 
