GURUGRAM:   alias Jeeta, a gansgter who carried a bounty of Rs 1 lakh on his head, was arrested by the special task force (STF) of Gurugram police on Wednesday night from Tandahedi Road near KMP Expressway. According to  , a pistol and six live bullets and a bike were seized from him.

 A resident of Tandahedi village in Jhajjar, Jitendra was in the list of most-wanted criminals of Haryana. He was booked for several crimes that he committed in Mahendragarh and Jhajjar districts according to police. Acting on a tip-off, STF raided a few places on Wednesday before nabbing him from Tandahedi Road. “We had received information that Jeeta would visit his village on Wednesday. We deployed our team in the area. After confirming his presence in the village, we started the raid,” said a police officer, who is privy to the developments.
 
 Though Jeeta tried to flee the village after coming to know about the police raid, but was chased and arrested by the STF.
 
 Jeeta’s first known crime was back in 2000 when he attacked a villager, identified as Jasbir, over a personal enmity. In 2002, he killed two people, for which he was convicted and sentenced to 20 years in jail for murder. After spending several years in jail, he was granted   in 2014. However, after coming out of jail, he attacked the witness in the   case, Kapoor Singh.
 
 Singh survived the attack, and Jeeta was booked for attempt to murder. “Jeeta jumped parole and has been on the run since then. He continued to commit crimes,” an STF officer said, adding that Jeeta’s arrest helped police crack several cases, including murders and attempts to murder, among others.
 
 In January, the STF had arrested four shooters of the Manjeet Mahal gang from Surkhpur and seized four loaded pistols, 20 live cartridges and one white-coloured Apache motorcycle from them. The gangsters were identified as Sachin, a resident of Dadanpur of Jhajjar; Deepak, a resident of Kharhar of Jhajjar; Abhishek, a resident of Barwala in Hisar and Uttam, also a resident of Jhajjar.
 
 A case was registered against the four at Jhajjar police station under sections 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), and 307 (attempt to murder) of the IPC and Arms Act.
 
 The STF also led a joint operation of Haryana and UP police in Ghaziabad, in which gangster Balraj Bhati, a former hitman of the dreaded Sunder Bhati gang, was gunned down after a 30-minute chase through sectors 37 and 41 in Noida in April.
 
 
