JAIPUR: Three persons were arrested from   of Jaipur district on Sunday for allegedly running a nexus encouraging pregnant women for abortion fooling them saying that the fetus in the womb is of a girl child. 

 They were using small chargeable LED bulb and pipe of a washing machine, which they connected in such a manner that they can use it for fooling the pregnant women. When they use it on a pregnant woman, they lighten up the bulb so that the woman gets a feeling that sonography is in the progress. 
 
 Pre-Conception Pre-Natal Diagnostic Technique ( ) cell team of   conducted the decoy operation on Sunday. Health department officials said they were not actually using sonography machines, but they were encouraging women for abortion by persuading them that fetus in their womb is of a girl child. 
 
 It was the 114th decoy operation conducted by the health department ever. Officials said that the accused three persons are Govind Ram, Shish Ram and   and also seized washing machine pipe, LED bulb and other such equipment along with an SUV, they used for transportation of pregnant women, from their possession. They conducted the activity (fake sonography) at a house in Morija village of Chomu. 
 
 The PCPNDT cell chalked out plan for conducting decoy operation to arrest the accused red handed. They started searching for a pregnant woman to act as a client for sonography willing to know sex of the fetus. The PCPNDT cell found one such woman in  . As part of the decoy operation, she approached the gang involved in such activities in Chomu of Jaipur district. They agreed to conduct the sonography. They asked the woman to come to Ringus. She waited for their call for hours. 
 
 After that she received call from them. They asked her to reach Chomu. But, when they completed the fake sonography with instrument they prepared with washing machine pipe and small chargeable LED bulb, the pregnant woman immediately signalled the PCPNDT cell team, which was following her as part of the decoy operation. They entered the house where the fake sonography was done and arrested the three accused.
 
 
