About 200 million people in India are living with high blood pressure, but only forty percent of urban dwellers are aware of their condition. In the rural setting, only a quarter are aware of their condition and only ten percent have their   under control. Because blood pressure, commonly known as hypertension is often a silent condition, it can cause damage to your body for years before symptoms become obvious. In fact, it is even possible that as you read this, you have hypertension and are not even aware about it. 

 
 
 
 High blood pressure is a medical condition defined by a systolic blood pressure (top number) greater than 130 or a diastolic blood pressure (bottom number) higher than 89. Simply put, it makes the heart work harder to pump blood. 
 
 
 
 
  A common misconception is that people think they can feel the change in their blood pressure levels. Some may say they have a headache or feel their eye twitching, but you do not know when this condition hits you. The only way to know if you have it is to measure it. 
 
 
 
 
 Known to cause changes in the artery walls, over time hypertension leads to the thickening of walls due to plaque buildup. This results in reduced blood flow through the artery. In case blood pressure is not controlled, it can spiral in to a number of serious conditions including visual and mobility problems, heart disease,  , stroke, kidney disease and even dementia. 
 
 
 
 
 Adopting healthy lifestyle changes is a good way to start. Right from moderating salt intake to adding some form of exercise to your routine to quitting smoking and losing weight — all these minor changes can do wonders for keeping hypertension at bay. Even more so, today, we have excellent medications to control hypertension, regulate blood pressure and thereby reduce related complications. 
 
 Everyone should know their blood pressure and the risks associated with it. Somani Cardiac Centre and Ruby Hall Clinic Wanowarie’s state-of-the-art Cardiac Division led by Dr. Abhay Somani is the perfect setting to have your hypertension diagnosed. With benefits ranging from the clinical depth of a renowned tertiary medical provider to a formidable team offering all-round care, the hospital is known to treat some of the most complex cardiac conditions. 
 The numbers tell the real story of whether you are at-risk for developing more serious and life-threatening illnesses. Book an appointment and get your blood pressure checked today: 9921688551 (Dr. Abhay Somani) or 020 66494949 (Ruby Hall Clinic Wanowarie)
 
 
 
 
 
