Vijayawada: Starting a   engineering centre with all stakeholders on board and headed by cops is the need of the hour in Vijayawada for effective management of traffic, according to experts. 

 Interacting with TOI on the sidelines of the three-day capacity building program on road safety, Dr  , president of   (IRTE), opined that inclusion of a subject on traffic   in colleges and training cops as well as urban transport planners is essential to control the chaotic situation prevailing on the roads.
 
 Dr Baluja observed that to have international standard traffic management in new capital Amaravati, the state government must first showcase those practices in Vijayawada. “The best practices in traffic regulation cannot be implemented after everything is put in place. It has to start from the design and planning stage and the concerned stakeholders should acquaint themselves with traffic engineering concepts,” he said, adding that civil engineers and police should also be trained in traffic engineering.
 
 Dr Baluja was all praise for chief minister N   for giving priority to road safety. He said Naidu is the only chief minister who has political will on road safety. Setting up a traffic engineering centre will only take a day if he wishes to start it, he said. He also opined that road transport authorities should also made accountable for fatal road accidents.
 
 “Transport authorities are not employing signboards to regulate traffic, as a reason of which traffic police has to regulate the flow of vehicles. Pedestrians are the most vulnerable as there is no pedestrian crossing anywhere in the city. Pedestrian safety should be given the highest priority in any city whereas the situation is completely the opposite in Vijayawada,” Dr Baluja observed.
 
 Convergence of traffic from all directions at city junctions is another problem that needs to be addressed in Vijayawada, according to Dr Baluja. He said the traffic flow should be seamless but at all junctions in the city the flow is clashing with the traffic coming from different directions.
 
 
