It’s not every day that you get to see the Bard’s plays in a native language or Chekov’s characters speaking your mother tongue. However, of late, due to efforts of some theatre enthusiasts, plays written in other languages are being translated and staged regularly for the Marathi audience.

  
 Shakespearean English is hardly used in today’s times so translating it into Marathi and adapting it for the stage was arduous task for the team of Hamlet. Speaking about the need of staging a translated play, Mandar Bhanage, director and actor of  , shares, “In earlier days, English was not understood by a lot of people, but plays continued to be a medium of amusement. Writers felt a need to translate the plays into native languages for better propagation. Even today, that notion stands. The Marathi community has a lot of theatre audience and our play has been received well by them.”
 
  
  
 The influence of foreign dramas has been pervasive among Marathi playwrights. The British play Attempts on her Life, originally written by Martin Crimp is another adapted play in Marathi that was staged in Pune recently. The Marathi version titled Tichi 17 Prakarne was translated by   in 2010 and has been staged multiple times. Pradeep says, “The Marathi audience is accepting of plays that have been translated from certain languages. When I adapted the Bengali play Phalguni into Marathi, named Chaitra, as well as Shakespeare’s Measure for Measure, they were received well. The reason behind this is the acceptance that comes to many art forms when they have a connect with a person’s mother tongue.”
 
 Vaiddya’s sentiments are echoed by Dr Pravin Bhole, HoD of the  , who recently translated and staged Anton Chekov’s Russian play The Seagull in Marathi. “For me, it was difficult to translate the play since I did not know the Russian language. However, I read more than five English versions of the play and studied each character before writing the complete play in Marathi,” he says. He adds, “Many foreign language plays have a strong story and message to convey. As dramatists, we feel the need for these plays to be adapted in native languages because the words connect with the emotions of the audience.”
 
  
 
 
  
  
 Parashuram Deshpande, who has translated  , shares “Translating and retaining the essence of a play is crucial. It took years to complete this translation of Hamlet because I had to be careful about choosing the right Marathi words that could convey what   actually wanted to, through his words.”
 
 While commercial Marathi plays continue to garner good response, these adaptations have found loyal following too. Prabhakar Vartak, a theatre enthusiast, states, “Shakespearian plays like Hamlet and King Lear, for example, have deep rooted messages, everyday challenges and complexities that are relatable even today. That’s why they gather a lot of audience. I also feel that with commercial plays, we are losing the tradition of intense acting. So, when actors get to do plays written by greats of the field, they have a chance to polish their acting skills too.”
 
  
  
 
  Sachin Patil, a businessman and a theatre aficionado, opines, “When a play is staged in a native language, the audience’s understanding of it is much more. I remember taking my younger daughter to watch Hamlet in Marathi. She understood it better and could easily explain the scenes from the play. Anything done in one’s native language is easily understood and that’s a key reason why such plays have the audience’s attention even today.”
 
  
  
 
 Alok Rajwade, who has directed Tichi 17 Prakarne, says it’s very important for the audience to establish a connect with the play. He shares, “In the original English play, there is no dedicated script to render the total 17 characters, but to make it easier for the audience I chalked out the different characters and situations to put it together.” He sums up and says, “It is very important for the audience to connect to what you’re trying to present. Language plays a vital role in portraying certain emotions. Thus, adaptations of such stories in Marathi have proven to be successful.”
 
  
  
 
