KOTA: Two BJP MLAs, Chandrakanta Meghwal,   from   area and   from   North on Saturday in a district-level appraisal meeting in Tagore Hall locked horns and engaged in heated arguments while state agriculture minister and minister in-charge of the district Prabhulal  , other local MLAs and district-level officials were present.

 The war of words between two party MLAs took place during discussion on development work about overbridge in   area of the district. However, Saini, while interacting with mediapersons after the meeting, termed the discussion very positive where all the MLAs were very active and positive regarding the developmental works in their respective areas.
 
 Phralad Gunjal during the discussion trained his gun on his party’s   Meghwal asked her not to behave and speak like that. “These people worth of two pennies whom we brought into the politics are now behaving like this,” Gunjal said following which MLA Chandrakanta retaliated saying ‘If I am worth of two pennies, you are also worth of the same. If he (Gunjal) has problem of me being in party, he should let me know,” Meghwal further said.
 
 He added that if she was worth of two pennies, problem should be to her parents and husband and not to the MLA of her party. 
 
 The two MLAs differed in opinion on development works as one of them wanted first the completion of overbridge in Dharmpura area while the other wanted necessary developmental works like construction of Gourav Path and other be carried out first.
 
 The other MLAs and district officials intervened the two locking horn MLAs and pacified them.
 
 Kota collector Gourav Goyal was also present in the meeting.
 
 Later, while speaking to media Chandrakanta Meghwal criticized Gunjal’s use of disgraceful words and language to Dalit woman public representative and she would complain the matter in writing to the CM. Gunjal refuted the allegation of using disgraceful words and language to the woman MLA of his party.
 
 However, minister in-charge of the district Saini avoided commenting on the hot exchange of words between two of his party MLAs and termed discussion very positive where all the MLAs were very active and positive regarding the developmental works in their respective areas.
 
 
