CHENNAI: Belatedly waking up to the realisation that bus drivers involved in fatal accidents need to be given more than a brief suspension, the state transport department is sending some of the worst offenders back to driving school.   (MTC) and   ( ) drivers who were involved in more than three fatal accidents in the last four years have been asked to undergo mandatory training at the   in   for a week. 

 The course focused on techniques to avoid accidents even if other vehicles on the roads, particularly two-wheelers, moved in an unsafe manner, a senior transport department official told TOI. “Yoga and meditation classes were also offered to reduce stress levels besides a refresher course on the basics of driving.” 
 
  
  
 
 Plans are on to extend the training to drivers from other transport corporations next month. Government buses in   run by eight different state transport corporations have caused nearly 13,700 accidents since 2014, out of which 4,700 turned out to be fatal. This has resulted in the loss of 5,480 lives, show government records accessed by TOI. 
 
 Nearly 28% of these accidents involved Metropolitan Transport Corporation (MTC) buses in Chennai. Indeed, MTC accounted for more accidents than any other state transport corporation across the country in 2016. 
 
 Against this backdrop, experts have questioned the quality of training given to drivers before they are allowed to operate on the roads. “Instead of appointing full-time trainers, MTC’s driver-conductor training centre in Chromepet only has driving inspectors training new recruits,” said an MTC official, requesting anonymity. 
 
 These inspectors lack the knowledge and skill to clear technical doubts or provide instructions on handling buses in case of mechanical failure. Instead, they focus more on how to reduce diesel consumption, he added. 
 
 Other MTC employees attributed the spike in accidents to the use of ageing buses, substandard components, shortage in availability of spare parts and inadequate funds for repair work. 
 
 Rejecting this, a TNSTC official said that adequate funds were allotted under all heads and Rs 90 crore was recently sanctioned towards clearing the pending motor accident claims. “Corporations are instructed not to allow impounding of buses any more as a separate fund has been created in this regard,” he said, adding the money for the fund is directly collected from passengers through ticket sales.
 
 
