Shimla: The budget session of Himachal Pradesh assembly started on a fiery note on Tuesday with opposition Congress staging a walkout on the issue of proposed amendments in Section 118 of the HP Tenancy and Land Reforms Act, 1972.

 Raising slogans against the government, Congress legislators walked out of the House in protest.
 
 Chief minister Jai Ram Thakur on his part criticized the opposition leaders for their behaviour in the House. He said there is no question of scrapping Section 118 and they are just proposing an idea to simplify the rules in order to attract investment in the state.
 
 Immediately after the house paid tributes to two former members who passed away recently, speaker Dr Rajiv Bindal informed the House about the adjournment notice given by MLAs Ram Lal Thakur and Jagat Singh Negi on statement of chief minister on the issue of Section 118. He said the same has been referred to the government for reply.
 
 On this, Congress legislators said the controversy has erupted on the issue following the statement of the chief minister and immediate discussion should be held on the topic. While the speaker requested the opposition members to allow him give a ruling, but the latter continued with their protest and started raising slogans. Later, they staged a walkout.
 
 Thakur said Congress has yet to come out of the shock of defeat in assembly elections. He said a notice given under rule 67 is irrelevant as the government has not talked of amending the Act or rule. “We have only said rules under Section 118 have been amended many times and its simplification has been done on several occasions,” he added.
 
 He said government wants investors to come forward to invest in hydro power, industries and tourism and in the process there was only a suggestion to simplify the rules of Section 118. “I am personally not aware what amendment actually needs to be done. I have only said that if amendment is needed, then people should give their suggestion,” the CM said.
 
 He said the Congress when it was in power had made two amendments in Section 118 in 1995 and 1996. He said even partial amendment was made during the BJP regime in 2011 and 2012.
 
 Adjournment notice rejected
 
 Speaker Dr Rajiv Bindal said, “An adjournment motion is not admissible unless there was failure on the part of the government to perform the duties enjoined by the Constitution and the law. As government has not taken any decision to change or amend the section 118 so it does not come under the purview of rule-67 accordingly adjournment notice is rejected.”
 
 Speculation in the air: CPM 
 
 CPM MLA Rakesh Singha, “The statement made by leader of the House has removed the doubts, to a certain extent, expressed regarding Section 118 of the HP Tenancy and Land Reforms Act. But at the same time it is also true that his statement appearing in the media has led to the speculations that Section 118 is being amended.”
 
 Won’t allow any amendment: Cong
 
 Speaking outside the assembly, former CM Virbhadra Singh said BJP came to power just two months back and it is hell bent to amend the rules. He said Congress party would ensure that no amendment is made in Section 118. He said had the Section 118 not imposed, people would have become landless in the state.
 
 Cong misused section: BJP
 
 BJP state president Satpal Singh Satti in a statement said that Congress is befooling the people on the issue of Section 118. He alleged that Congress had made the optimum misuse of the section. 
 
 
