GHAZIABAD: The UP Jal Nigam is planning to extend   to GDA- administered   and Madhuban Bapudham in addition to parts of Mohan Nagar which comes under the jurisdiction of Ghaziabad Municipal Corporation (GMC). 

 A pre-feasibility report was submitted by the Jal Nigam on Monday that states a plan to set up 100 cusec   treatment plant in Raj Nagar Extension with an estimated cost of Rs 1057.48 crores, which would jointly be borne by the   (GDA) and the UP government.
 
 “The need for augmenting Ganga water supply network in other parts of the city was felt since a long time. Since 2014, there have been talks with UP Jal Nigam, irrigation department, GDA and GMC, but now after so many years, the plan is finally taking shape,” said an official from UP Jal Nigam.
 
 “On Monday, a meeting called by MLA Atul Garg was attended by mayor and officials from various departments where Jal Nigam presented a pre-feasibility report. According to the report, the estimated cost of laying the pipeline network would be Rs 1057.48 crore,” added the official. The land cost and the amount that would be given to the irrigation department is not included in the report.
 
 “According to the understanding, GDA will contribute a sum of Rs 793.19 crore while the state government will bear the remaining Rs 264.29 crore,” said the official. “Out of 100 cusec treated Ganga water, GDA would use 75% of it for it in Raj Nagar Extension and Madhuban Bapudham, while the rest of the water will be consumed in parts of Mohan Nagar which comes under GMC’s jurisdiction,” added the official.
 
 To set up the plant, a four-hectare land is planned in Raj Nagar Extension and 2.5-hectare land near Dasna alongside Upper Ganga canal, which would serve as the catchment area. 
 
 The plant is expected to cater to potable water needs for a population of about 10 lakh.
 
 Currently, the Ganga water supply is limited to Indirapuram township and to the delta colonies of Brij Vihar. Water to these areas is supplied from existing Pratap Vihar water treatment plant.
 
 
