CHANDIGARH: In its  , the probe commission headed by Justice M S Gill (retd) has recommended cancellation of FIRs in 41 cases found false that were registered during 10 years of SAD-BJP regime. One of such cases was registered against former Gurdaspur SDM Vijay Sayal for challaning Orbit bus owned by then deputy chief minister  

 Total number of such false cases recommended for cancellation by the commission has now reached 258. The commission has also recommended to cancel FIRs against Sikh religious preacher  . The commission said FIRs against Sayal and Daduwal were registered out of vendetta for not obeying diktats of former deputy chief minister Sukhbir Singh Badal and former revenue minister  .
 
 The commission’s report says Sayal was falsely implicated in a FIR registered by the Faridkot vigilance bureau for challaning the Orbit Bus owned by Badal, who was also holding the portfolio of home department at that time. In the case of Daduwal, the commission did not find anything seditious in his speech at the congregation held on November 10, 2015.
 
 Justice Gill submitted the interim report to the chief minister at his official residence in which the commission has dismissed 118 out of 159 complaints for lack of its jurisdiction or after finding them without merit. Out of the 655 complaints examined till date, the commission has recommended relief in 258 while dismissing the remaining 397 complaints.
 
 First interim report was submitted on August 23 last year in which out of 178 complaints, 58 complaints were dismissed and relief was given to 120 complainants. Second interim report was submitted on September 23 last year and out of 106 complaints, 59 were dismissed and in 47 complaints relief was given to the complainants. The third interim report was submitted on October 23 last year wherein of a total of 101 complaints, 81 were dismissed and relief was provided in 20. In its fourth interim report, submitted on November 30, 2017, 111 complaints were dealt with. Of these, 81 complaints were dismissed and relief was given to 30 complainants.
 
