COIMBATORE: After a disappointing seventh finish last season,   made amends in ISL-4 when they qualified for the semifinals on Tuesday with a game in hand. With an organised defence and a dynamic attack, the John Gregory-coached side has accumulated 29 points from 17 matches, winning eight, drawing five and losing four.

 
 The key for Chennaiyin has been their result-oriented approach. Flair was never their strongest suit and the foundation of their game was based on playing effective football. Even during the player draft last July, they went for bargain buys instead of expensive stars. They eventually finished as one the team with the lowest budget - an approximate Rs 13 crore - after the signing of foreigners. It meant that the 2015   champions didn’t have a star or a marquee player in their ranks and the team had to play as a unit to succeed. And the players didn’t disappoint. Such has been their performance that the club didn’t have to spend a penny in the January transfer window when other coaches asked for reinforcements.
 
 Central defender and captain   feels coach Gregory has infused the right team spirit, which enabled them to sail through tough times. “We had the eighth lowest budget in terms of player and staff wages. But Gregory has got the best out of the squad and we proved many people wrong. We played together, always believed and backed each other’s abilities and fought till the end,” Sereno told TOI on Wednesday.
 
 Chennaiyin have also shown tough character towards the business end of the league. While other teams have struggled for consistency, they have remained unbeaten in the last four matches. It was their tightly-knit defence of Mailson Alves, Jerry Lalrinzuala, Sereno and Inigo Calderon that never yielded much space to opposition.
 
 Even though they conceded some ‘silly’ goals due to lapse in concentration midway in the league, the team has got its act right on time. They have now only conceded 19 goals, the third most miserly team in the competition. “The fact that Mailson and I speak in Portuguese has helped in forming a good partnership. We also have a good understanding with Inigo and Jerry. Again everything boils down to team work. We defend from the front and striker Jeje (Lalpekhlua) is our first line of defence,” said Sereno.
 
 If there is any major concern for Chennaiyin at this stage, it is forward Jeje’s form, who has scored seven goals. Playing as a single striker, he has been patchy of late and has gone five matches without a goal. It has no doubt added pressure on the midfielders like Raphael Augusto and  , who have otherwise been creative and fluent.
 
 But Sereno backed Jeje. “Jeje has done exceptionally well since the start of the season. Even when he hasn’t scored he has helped the team. There is (Mohammed) Rafi as well who has scored two vital goals from the bench. In fact, we have 11 different goal scorers, again the most in the league, which shows that anybody in our squad can come up with the goods,” said Sereno.
 
