Rajkot:  , who was allegedly kidnapped on Friday was found a few kilometres from his home at an isolated place. He was strangled to death using a wire. The deceased identified as Het Haresh Vadhear, is a resident of Shantidham area of Shapar town of Rajkot.

 According to police, Het had gone missing since Friday evening and his family suspected kidnapping. 
 
 Het’s father Haresh does labour work, while his mother Jaya works in a factory. When Jaya came back from work she did not find Het in the house. Soon Het’s grandmother returned from ‘satsang’ and they both began search for the missing boy. 
 
 In an attempt to find their son, the parents also checked the CCTV footage of the nearest pan shop in which the child was seen playing outside the house. However, there was no trace where he went. The family on Friday late evening informed the police about missing Het.
 
 On Saturday, police got information that a body of a child was found at an isolated place behind bushes near Gundasar area of Ribda village. Police called Het’s parents for the identification. They identified the body as that of Het.
 
 Gondal DySP DM Chauhan ruled out extortion angle in the case. “The boy was strangulated to death with a wire. We have sent the dead body for the postmortem to know the exact cause of death and its timing. It is possible that somebody killed the boy due to some personal animosity as there has been no extortion call,” said Chauhan.
 
 “The family members are in deep shock and not in position to talk. Once their condition stabilises we will question them if they suspected somebody. We are also checking the call details of relatives and people close to the family,” he added.
 
 Police believe that the boy was murdered somewhere else and his body was dumped is bushes at the isolated place. Police is also interrogating people in the vicinity to know if they had seen any suspicious activity since Saturday morning. They are also checking the CCTV footage of hotels and toll booth between Shapar-Verava to Ribada and Gondal.
 
 Haresh the father of the victim also informed the police that when they were searching for the child in the evening somebody called his friend Jayesh Koli and reportedly said that he wants to talk to him. But when Haresh called back the number was switched off. Police is investigating the caller. Het was the only child of his parents. His elder brother died before six years in an accident.
 
 
