Nagpur: ‘Science On a Sphere’ was inaugurated at   Centre And Planetarium on Wednesday on the occasion of its 26th anniversary as well as the recently commemorated Science Foundation Day. It is a unique visual facility which will enable visitors to experience various phenomena on earth and other celestial objects in three dimension.

 The facility was inaugurated by former ISRO chairman AS Kiran Kumar, director of Jawaharlal Nehru Aluminum Research Dr Anupam Agnihotri, and director of Nehru Science Centre, Mumbai, SM Khened. The facility will be open to visitors every day, through nearly six shows that will take place within one-hour interval.
 
 Welcoming the audience comprising students, researchers and guests, Khened said the facility will be a visualization tool for children to understand earth and beyond. “Jawaharlal Nehru called scientific institutions as temples of modern India. Our mandate is to create scientific awareness, and scientists to have the ability to make an impact in society,” he said.
 
 Calling it a fusion of technology, Agnihotri said this facility will give access to the most current information about our planet regarding atmosphere, land, ocean and astronomy. In the recently held World Economic Forum, it was said that the world is heading towards fourth industrial revolution — technological revolution will alter the way we work and relate to each other.
 
 “By 2030, everything will be solar, and this disruptive energy will make thermal power redundant,” he said.
 
 Kumar, in his keynote address, gave an overview on space technology for societal benefits. Through visual media, he explained how data from satellite has benefited fishermen, farmers by way of navigation information and geographical changes. Talking of the first satellite sent to space by the Russians, he spoke of the gradual progress in the field of science with concepts such as sounding rockets launch and Vikram Sarabhai’s endeavours.
 
 “Last month, when we demonstrated the use of NavIC, Navigation with Indian Constellation, a GPS system that facilitates accurate real-time positioning, the fishermen of Kerela coast were shocked. They said that they had never seen so many fish at once,” he said.
 
 Kumar said how weather monitoring was done using satellite data for cyclone warning. He said 47 satellites are in operation at present for matters of governance and space technology. Kumar further explained how satellites can help enable basic facilities in health and education.
 
 
