NEW DELHI: At the   where   took a generational leap, it also rediscovered its long-forgotten prime minister,  . The architect of economic reforms, Rao officially came out of ‘political exile’ imposed by his party 14 years after his death.
 
  Rao, who never appeared in posters at Congress’ successive sessions and resolutions for years, was duly acknowledged at the 84th plenary session at   Indoor Stadium. The first instance came in the political resolution on Saturday when Rao was credited for the economic reforms that began in 1991. “The tragic assassination of   was a big blow to the Congress and PV Narasimha Rao was entrusted with the responsibility. As prime minister, he steered the country out of engulfing crisis. The economic reforms of 1991was truly historic and transformed Indian economy,” the political resolution said. Even foreign policy resolution acknowledged his contribution saying, “Narasimha Rao steadfastly pursued a foreign policy that upheld India’s sovereign interest.”
  
  This is in complete contrast with how Rao’s tenure as PM was almost blacked out in Congress sessions. Rao found just a mention in Congress president Sonia Gandhi’s speech in 2010. The five volumes of ‘Congress and the Making of the Indian Nation’, the first initiative of the Congress to trace its history since the party’s establishment in 1885, were released at Burari plenary. Rao was the only Congress PM missing from the cover of the books edited by party veteran  .
  
  The 172-page first volume made a rare reference in the 13th chapter devoted to Rao government, crediting him for completing his full term and heralding economic reforms with the help of Manmohan Singh. Over the years, Congress leaders, barring Singh, have avoided floral tributes organised in Parliament on Rao’s birth anniversaries.
  
  The 84th plenary session, however, marked a course correction. Congress insiders said this was a conscious attempt by president   to portray a party that has grown with the contribution of every leader. Asenior leader, involved in the drafting of political resolution told ET, “the Congress is being attacked by BJP government for being dependent on one dynasty. This assault has to be parried and that is why it is being showcased that Congress had a range of leaders and it is not run by only one dynasty.”
  
  This was also reflected in Gandhi’s speech when he said he wanted to build a Congress similar to the one in 1947 when any leader could have run the party or the government.
  
