THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The   unit on Wednesday submitted a report before the   special court here stating that   D Mathew, the BSF commandant arrested two weeks ago with alleged bribe money, had been in constant touch with a notorious international smuggler, Bishu Shaikh, who operated along Indo-Bangladesh border. The CBI has also arraigned Shaikh as an accused in the case. 

 In the report submitted by CBI inspector  , the investigation officer of the case, it is stated that their officers seized a   phone from Jibu Mathew when he was taken into custody from the   in  . The phone was suspected to have been handed over by Shaikh and it was exclusively used to communicate with the smuggler. Shaikh was learned to be a smuggler, whose main activity involved smuggling cattle from India to Bangladesh. He was also accused of smuggling drugs and arms.
 
 There were only two numbers saved in the contact list of the phone. Both belonged to Shaikh. The CBI conducted a preliminary inquiry and found out that both SIM cards were secured using a bogus address.
 
 The phone that was recovered from Jibu had been in his possession for over three months. Before that he had been using another phone to communicate with Shaikh.
 
 It was in November 2016, that Jibu, a native of  , joined the 83 battalion of BSF on the Indo-Bangla border. It is suspected that soon after joining the battalion, he came in contact with the members of the smuggling racket.
 
 Also on Wednesday, the CBI heard the bail plea of Jibu, who had been in judicial custody ever since his arrest. His counsel argued that even as the CBI was accusing him of anti-national activities, he was charged only with sections of Prevention of Corruption Act in the   registered by the agency. For the offences booked, he did not need to remain under custody for such a long period.
 
 Opposing the defence counsel, the CBI prosecutor argued that the agency needed to probe further and collect more evidence before invoking such serious sections.
 
 The court will pronounce its judgment on Thursday.
 
 
