NEW DELHI: India’s double Olympic medalist   has backed himself to win a third Commonwealth Games gold at next month’s edition of the quadrennial games held at  , in the southeast of the Australian state of Queensland from April 4-15. 

 
 
 
 Writing in today’s TOI, Sushil - who won gold medals in the 66kg events at the 2010 and 2014 editions of the CWG - deflected talk of his retirement by stressing that he was ready to prove his detractors wrong. 
 
 “Every four years when Commonwealth Games comes along there is an air of expectations from Indian wrestlers and this year is no different. It really hurts to get injured before big tournaments, but I have taken it in my stride my absence from the just-ended Asian Championship. I know that I am in a combat sport and any minor injury needs to be attended to, but I am sure I will deliver gold medal at the next month’s Commonwealth Games in Gold Coast. My preparations are on track and I am working to live up to the expectations,” wrote the 34-year-old, who claimed an Olympic bronze in 2008 and upgraded that to silver in 2012. 
 
 
 
 During the 2014 CWG held in Glasgow, India won five gold medals in wrestling but ended up behind Canada (seven) on the overall tally. Sushil was confident of India improving on their showing from four years ago. 
 
 “More than winning gold, I want India to top the wrestling medal tally and unseat Canada from the perch. I have been preparing well under the watchful eyes of Satpal and Vladimir Mestvirishvili. I like to be part of the national training not just to prepare myself but to share tips with the fellow CWG-bound wrestlers,” he wrote. “Considering that the Asian Games in Jakarta are in August, we have to prepare in right earnest. I am sure there are tough contests in the offing, but I am hopeful that Indian wrestlers will do well.”
 
 Recently, Sushil dispelled doubts about his future by stating that he intends on participating in the Asian Games and the Senior World Champions later this year. He reiterated that point by writing: “A few doubt my medal-winning ability now, but when I won gold at the Commonwealth Championship in Johannesburg by beating New Zealand’s Aakash Khullar in my comeback tournament after Glasgow, I proved them wrong.”
 
