He was a popular voice on the air waves for over six years, a time during which he met several actors, which, in turn, spawned a deep desire in him to head to the silver screen. With his dream all set to be realized with the upcoming  ,   has mixed emotions. He is a bundle of nerves wondering how audiences will react to him onscreen, but he is also excited that he has managed to make the switch to the big screen, despite having no filmi connections whatsoever. “As an  , I have interacted with a lot of celebrities over the past few years, and while I could have asked any of them for a role, I decided to bide my time as I believed that the right opportunity would come my way. It did, when director   and I exchanged messages on a social media platform. We got talking, after which he narrated the story of 6ne Maili. I was quite intrigued by the story,” says Sudesh.
The film has an ensemble cast, including National Award-winner  , which means that everyone has limited screen time. Didn’t that play on Sudesh’s mind when signing up for the film? “Not at all. I looked at this opportunity as a learning experience. As someone who used to report on film news earlier, I always thought that the process was easy, but now that I have been a part of this movie, I have immense respect for everyone involved, as it takes insane amounts of energy and patience to get it all together. Personally, I have become a lot more patient after 6ne Maili,”he says. 
 In the film, Sudesh plays an RJ, but the professional bit of it, he explains, is hardly of any consequence in the narrative, as the film focuses on what transpires when a bunch of trekkers go missing. “Director See Ni was very clear about what he wanted to bring to the screen, which made life a lot easier for the entire team. During the shoot, we spent a lot of time in the forest, with no connectivity whatsoever, which meant that the team spent a lot of time bonding,” he says.
 So what’s next for Sudesh? “Acting is what I want to do. A lot of people know me from my days as an RJ and now TV, but it would be interesting how they will relate to me once I am on the big screen. My next will most certainly depend on that,” he signs off.
 
