Santiniketan: Bangladesh PM Sheikh Hasina chose the backdrop of the Visva-Bharati campus, established by a poet whose compositions are sung as National Anthems of India and Bangladesh, to seek India’s help in repatriating   refugees to Myanmar.

 Over 11 lakh Rohingyas had taken refuge in her country, Hasina said at Friday’s inauguration of Bangladesh Bhavana in the presence of PM Narendra Modi and CM Mamata Banerjee. “We could not have turned them away. We are a nation of 16 crore. Why could we not feed a few lakh more mouths? If need be, we will share our food. But we also want them to be expeditiously repatriated to Myanmar. We (Bangladesh and India) have to urge Myanmar to take its people back,” Hasina said.
 
 Modi did not refer to the Rohingya issue in his speech but Bangladesh foreign minister Nurul Islam Nahid said both countries were on the same page. His deputy, Shariar Alam, pointed to Indian foreign minister Sushma Swaraj’s recent visit to Myanmar, where she had called for safe and dignified return of Rohingyas and even extended help to rebuild villages in the Rakhine province.
 
 Alam said: “The international community needs to keep the pressure on Myanmar and India has a key role to play.” Only Modi and Hasina were present at a bilateral meeting following the inauguration, but diplomats from both counties corroborated that the Rohingya issue figured in it as the refugee problem had turned into a humanitarian crisis.
 
 The Indian government has refused to let in the Rohingya refugees, with some in the central government branding them a threat to national security. Bengal’s ruling Trinamool Congress, however, has differed with the BJP’s stand, with Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee publicly expressing her sympathy for Myanmar’s persecuted minority last year.
 
 “We support the UN appeal to help the Rohingya people. We believe that all commoners are not terrorists. We are really concerned,” Banerjee had tweeted in September 2017. 
 
 Several dozen Rohingya families have been accommodated in different villages of South 24 Parganas by NGOs with the support of local Trinamool leaders.
 
 Many Rohingya refugees in India have come from overcrowded Bangladeshi camps. Myanmar has grudgingly agreed to take back some of the refugees, but not many Rohingyas want to return to their villages. Those working with the refugee population have also said Myanmar has been taking its time to verify the identities of the refugees, which means the already-overcrowded camps in Cox’s Bazar may be staring at a humanitarian crisis with monsoon only weeks away.
 
 
