KOHIMA: In a first,   is likely to hold oath-taking ceremony at the historic Khuochiezie (Kohima Local Ground), where in May 16, 1951 Nagas gathered at this ground to give their thumb impression for "Naga plebiscite of independence". 

 Preparations have started at the ground for the upcoming swearing-in, which may be attended by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The schedule has been tentatively fixed on Thursday, which may also change depending on Prime Minister's timing. All past swearing-in ceremonies were held at Raj Bhawan. This will be the first the ceremony is planned at the Ground.
 
 As the Nagas have begun to express their desire for a timely conclusion to the Naga peace process which started in 1997, the venue for the swearing in ceremony may also symbolically send the message about the new government's commitment to solve the protracted political problem.
 
 Solution to the Naga problem was one of the major poll promises of all political parties in the   election. All political parties in the state have included solution to the Naga problem as in their respective manifestos. With BJP government at the Centre, and the saffron party becoming part of the People's Democratic Alliance (PDA) government in the state, hopes are high that the peace process will be taken forward to a logical conclusion in coming days. The Centre and NSCN (IM) had signed the framework agreement for solution in August 2015.
 
 Eighteen legislators of NDPP, 12 legislators of BJP, one legislator of JD(U) and one Independent legislator floated the PDA and staked claim before State Governor PB Acharya on Sunday to form the government with Neiphiu Rio as the chief minister.
 
 Rio has said that besides ushering in development in the state, a solution to the protracted Naga problem is also a pressing issue which has to be addressed on a priority basis. He also said that the election was held for solution.
 
 Prime Minister Narendra Modi in his election campaign in the state had also promised an early solution. "Sooner the government takes charge is better for Nagaland. We are eager to see that solution is achieved to the Naga political problem. Also there is an urgent need to take up development," said Atanu Theyo, a hotelier here.
 
 The people here wants the new government to take the Naga peace process to a logical conclusion as they talks was taking a long time. They believe the continued presence of a BJP-linked government in Nagaland will help in resolving the country's oldest insurgency problem.
 
 A senior officer at the deputy commissioner's office here, said, without willing to give his name as he was not authorized to speak to media, preparation at the ground has started with the anticipation that the oath taking ceremony likely to be held on Thursday. There are also talks among various circles including in social media that the ceremony is likely to be held on Wednesday.. The ground will be ready to host the ceremony either on Wednesday or Thursday," the officer said.
 
 
