LUCKNOW: Even as stray dogs have unleashed terror in neighbouring Sitapur district by killing six children in five days since May 1, the staggering number of strays in the state capital — 60,000 — is no less worrisome, with more than 45,000 still roaming unsterilised.

 
 Many incidents of stray dogs attacking humans in the city have been reported but Lucknow municipal corporation (LMC) is still far from ensuring safety of residents from stray menace.
 
 As per LMC’s estimate, around 60,000 stray dogs roam in the city, of which only 12,000 have been sterilised. The corporation has only two facilities for sterilisation, one at Kanha Upvan and the other at Animal Ashram near Fun Republic Mall, with a total capacity to sterilise 350 dogs every month. As a result, the population of dogs is increasing every day. Last year, around a dozen cases of dogs attacking humans were reported.
 
 Concerned by the developments in Sitapur, many residents expressed apprehensions about similar incidents taking place in the city. Manas Pandey, a resident of Janakipuram Extension said, “The number of dogs in my locality has increased significantly. They pose a threat to children and disturb sleep by barking all night. A kid from my neighbourhood was dragged by a pack of dogs.” Shraddha Singh of Aliganj said that stray dogs often come in front of vehicles while crossing roads and cause accidents as drivers try to save them.
 
 Chief veterinary officer, LMC, Arvind Kumar Rao, said, “Our Jarhara animal shelter having sterilisation capacity of 1,000 dogs per month will be ready in two months. It will help us sterilise all stray dogs. Only one or two instances of dogs attacking humans are reported in Lucknow every year.”
 
 (With inputs from Kanishka Mishra)
 
 Times View
 
 There is an urgent need for LMC to increase its capacity to sterilise stray dogs. It is the only way to check burgeoning population of stray dogs in the city, thereby reducing conflict with human population. If lack of funds and hands is the main reason behind LMC's inability to set up more sterilisation facilities, the corporation can evolve PPP model by involving corporate and NGOs.
 
