MUMBAI: If one looks at the performance of sensex, nifty and top stocks on   since the last   exactly a year ago, the numbers will surely impress.   is up around 30% since then to a record high at 36k level, it has hit new highs on more than 70 occasions, and investors are now richer by nearly Rs 45 lakh crore (or about $700 billion) with BSE’s market capitalization now at Rs 155 lakh crore, also an all-time peak. 

 What could impress more and also give a lot of comfort to the government and the policy makers is the fact that this smart rally came mainly on the back of strong buying by retail investors through domestic mutual funds. Since last Budget, mutual funds have pumped in close to Rs 1.2 lakh crore into stocks, almost three times the corresponding number over the 13-month period between Budget 2016-17 and Budget 2017-18 (for FY17, the Budget was presented on February 29 while since then the date has been advanced to February 1). In comparison, net fund infusion by foreign investors__ who were the most dominant investor group in India for nearly a quarter of a century__was just a trickle at nearly Rs 15,000 crore (or $2.3 billion). 
 
 
  
 
 With retail investors lapping up the systematic investment plan (SIP) in mutual fund schemes as their preferred route to invest in the stock market, fund managers and brokers believe that India’s long-cherished dream of having a credible counter-balance to foreign funds is firmly in place. Investors are pumping in over Rs 6,200 crore into mutual funds through SIPs every month and industry estimates say 95% of this is intended for investing in equities. If the current trend is maintained, very soon Indian investors will be putting in over $1 billion (Rs 6,500 crore) into stocks every month which could rise to over Rs 10,000 crore in about two years, A Balasubramanian, chairman of industry trade body   told TOI recently. In January 2017, this number was at Rs 4,095 crore, thus recording a growth of over 50% since finance minister Arun Jaitley’s last budget.
 
 One of the main reasons for this huge growth in SIP inflows is what market players describe as the ‘financialisation of savings and investments’ due to demonetisation, which is gettign a further boost by introduction of GST. These two reform-oriented moves by the government are prompting investors to shift from buying gold and real estate to investing in mutual funds, stocks and other financial products.
 
 Dalal Street veterans now expect the FM to give a further boost to financial savings by putting more money into the hands of salaried people and also plugging the loopholes which could turn the stock and commodity markets a much safer place to invest and trade.
 
 
