Hyderabad: Strengthening its presence in Telangana and taking another step towards increasing its manufacturing prowess in India, Tata Lockheed Martin Aerostructures Limited ( ), a joint venture between Tata Advanced Systems Limited (TASL) and Lockheed Martin, on Wednesday inaugurated a metal-to-metal bonding facility at Adibatla on the city’s outskirts. The facility is a wing or extension of the Tata Lockheed Martin JV.

 The company refused to share details of the investments it has made in the new 4,700 sqmt facility. It, however, said over 80 employees will be working in this facility.
 
 “Now, we are ready to move beyond assembling things to actually building things. This facility that we have inaugurated today will give us the ability to do composites, advanced materials, metal-to-metal bonding, anodising plus assembly and advance machining. It is the start of a new phase in aerospace manufacturing,” TLMAL chief operating officer (COO) Abhay Paranjape said, adding that it will also lead to an increase in the localisation component of its existing manufacturing units.
 
 He added that TLMAL is also increasing the indigenization of C-130 manufacturing by transitioning the production of approximately 2,000 previously imported empennage parts to Tata Sikorsky Aerospace, Ltd (TSAL), another Tata-Lockheed Martin joint venture located here. These parts were previously manufactured by suppliers located outside India.
 
 TLMAL currently produces 24 C-130 empennages annually and till date, 85 TLMAL-built empennages have been installed on C-130Js delivered by Lockheed Martin to its global customers, including the Indian Air Force.
 
 Commenting on the partnership, Sukaran Singh, managing director and CEO, Tata Advanced Systems Ltd, said, “We are delighted to expand the scope of our partnership with Lockheed Martin. It is a matter of pride that aerostructure components manufactured at our Indian facility are an integral part of the world’s most successful and advanced tactical airlifter, which is also being used by the IAF. TASL continuously strives to strengthen the manufacturing capabilities of the country by bringing cutting-edge technologies, and building capability and capacity to make India more self-reliant.” 
 
 
