ABU DHABI: While the   summit has proven to be the decisive stage in the previous years in deciding the GC (General Classification) winner of the  , the addition of time trail this year has distinctly nullified the advantage the climbers had in the past.

 
 
 
 
 
 The time trail will be the fourth stage followed by the final stage that features the tough 10.8 kilometres climb of Jabel Hafeet. Defending champion and climber Rui Costa, and his UAE Team Emirates teammate Fabio Aru, would go for the kill in the final two stages as would Movistar team’s Alejandro Valverde. 
 
 
 
 
 But the likes of Tom Dumoulin - the current World individual time trial champion and Giro d'Italia 2017 winner, Wilco Kelderman and Ilnur Zakarin - runner-up at 2017 Abu Dhabi Tour, would be eying stage four for considerable gains, and if they manage to earn the time bonus, Jebel Hafeet could very well prove to be a formality; not to mention the added pressure the other GC men will have to go for the attack. 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 Starting at the Madinat Zayed, the riders will be going around the desert for this flat out sprint of 189 km. Wide and straight roads in desert will mean the riders will have to take in account the wind. The final section is a fully urban course with only two proper curves, one to the left and one to the right. The straight, wide roads featuring wide ranged roundabouts, with the final, flat stretch on tarmac.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 Mostly through the city, 154 km stretch will begin from Yas mall and culminate at the Yas beach and will once again be the playground for fast finishers. The final 5 km is all on a wide road with broader bends leading to the asphalted finish line. The last curve is with 750m to go.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 This Tricky Stage 3 within the city will present the riders with the challenge of several roundabouts and speed bumps, but they will pass through the Grand Mosque and Al Wathba Camel Track, leading back to Yas Island through Al Falah. 
 
 
 
  
  
 A 12.6 km Individual Time Trial will be held entirely on wide and mostly straight roads with relatively broad bends. The U-turn and time check point are at km 7.1. The last section is on wide roads with broader bends and a perfect surface. The final 350m stretch is on tarmac.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 Starting from the city, this 199 km stage will feature the 10.8 km of climbing with maximum gradients of 11 percent. From the start inside the inhabited part of Al Ain, the first section of the route is always on wide roads with roundabouts and speed bumps, while the second part in the desert is on mostly wide and straight roads. With 15km to go, the route starts climbing slightly towards the uphill finish. The stage finish is at 1025m above sea level. There's a very brief downhill in the last kilometre before the final uphill stretch. The finishing straight is on flat tarmac. 
 
 
 
 
