TRICHY: Getting mistakes rectified in the updated record (UDR) of the revenue department has not been an easy task for anyone. Now, an initiative of the district administration to provide the people with solutions to issues relating to incorrect information in the UDR has made the task easier for Trichy residents.

 To start with, a special camp for UDR correction was organized in   revenue division followed by   recently. On Thursday, Srirangam revenue division witnessed another special camp at which a total of 383 petitions were submitted by 116 people from Srirangam, 176 from   and 91 from   taluks. The petitions included issues of mismatch of facts in the UDR, Natham land title, old age pension and destitute widow certificates. 
 
 It was the heap of petitions seeking corrections in the land titles (patta) which made the administration led by collector   embark on the move to provide one-stop solutions to problems pertaining to the mismatch of names, measurement of land etc. “
 
 The camps are the outcome of the increasing number of petitioners complaining of solutions to the problems in UDR dragging on. The special camp in each division was planned to find out solutions to such issues,” the collector told TOI. The special camp for Trichy revenue division will be held in a fortnight. 
 
 The concept of the special camp was aimed at assembling all officials ranging from village administrative officer (VAO) to revenue divisional officer ( ) at one spot and analysing the nitty-gritty of the problem thoroughly. 
 
 The officials were given a stipulated time to make necessary corrections and report to the collector. “I see to it that each and every issue brought to me has been resolved through the camp. If the officials require some more time, that will be given. Some petitions can be rejected on the grounds of mistake of facts. But they can also appeal to district revenue officer,” said the collector. 
 
 Of the three camps, the special camp at Musiri witnessed a large number of 1,417 petitions from Musiri and Thottiyam taluks. At Lalgudi, 380 petitions from Lalgudi and Mannachanallur were received. 
 
 “Going by the progress, we can find solutions for up to 85 % of the petitions in two months,” said the collector. 
 
 
