JAIPUR: The state government has provided   who participated in consecutive strikes in November and December by counting the duration of the strike as extraordinary leaves.

 These   were on probation after being selected as medical officers. During the doctors’ strike, they had not reported for duty. Since they were absent, they would not have got the benefit of experience of working in difficult and remote areas while applying for post-graduation.
 
 Showing concern for MBBS doctors, who are candidates for PG medical courses, the state government has ensured that they will get the benefit of incentive marks for selection to PG courses.
 
 “As per norms, for one year of experience in difficult and remote areas, a MBBS doctor will get 10% marks secured in NEET PG exams as incentive for applying for admissions in PG medical courses. But, these doctors were not eligible due to the doctors’ strike in November and December. But, the government has provided a major relief to such doctors by counting the days of strike as extraordinary leaves,” said Dr Ajay Chaudhary, president, All Rajasthan In Service Doctors’ Association (ARISDA).
 
 He said that around 250 doctors would benefit from the government move.
 
 The health department has issued the order regarding the same on March 27. It says, “The order is issued for only 2018-19 PG admission for getting incentive marks.”
 
 The doctors were on strike on September 18, from November 6 to November 12, December 8, from December 16 to December 27. They remained on strike for a total of 21 days.
 
 One of the demands made by protesting doctors was to adjust the days of strike (boycott of work) against casual/privilege leaves when they called off the strike on December 27.
 
 The doctors had demanded the cases filed against them under the Rajasthan Essential Services Maintenance Act (RESMA) be withdrawn. They had also demanded the Rajasthan Administration Officer (RAS), who was handed the charge of additional director (gazetted), to be replaced by a medical professional. Besides, they had wanted the transfers of 12 doctors to be revoked.
 
 Box: Doctors stage protest
 
 Jaipur: The   of Resident Doctors (JARD) took out a rally from   to Trimurti Circle on Wednesday evening protesting against the government’s proposal to increase retirement age of doctors from 62 to 65 years. They also threatened to intensify their protest if their demands were not met. JARD claimed that if the government increases the retirement age of doctors, it would affect the chances of new doctors in getting government jobs.
 
 
