BENGALURU: They were minors and eager to study, but were facing the  . However, a stroke of luck led the two girls to   run by  ,   working with Bengaluru police for 25 years. And it changed the destiny of these 17-year-old girls who were under pressure to get married soon after their II PU exams.

 
 One girl had run away from her home in north Karnataka. In April, she alighted at Yeshwantpur bus station with her marksheets and degree certificates, hoping to secure admission in a city college. A  , Govardhan, noticed her standing alone and brought her to the centre on Infantry Road.
 
 “Govardhan, an electrician, noticed she was getting undue attention from youths loitering around the bus stand and helped her. The girl was smart enough to carry all her documents, and was convinced about not returning to her parents. She’ll turn 18 in a few months and until then, the Child Welfare Committee will take care of her,” said Rani Shetty, in charge of Parihara.
 
  with birth certificate
 
 Last month, staffers at Makkala Sahayavani received an anonymous letter that contained a photocopy of a wedding invitation card and the birth certificate of the bride-to-be. The wedding was set to take place on May 13.
 
 “We asked her parents to come and meet us. The family was poor and the father was a truck driver. While they’re clueless about the Pocso Act, they were aware about the moral incorrectness of a  . With another son in the family, they were keen to get their daughter married off soon. They expected her to perform badly in the exams and wanted to rid themselves of the burden, but the girl wanted to study further,” said Rani.
 
 However, the girl had the last laugh as the counsellors managed to convince her family. “In smaller cities, family pride matters a lot. The father was embarrassed about calling off the wedding as they had already distributed cards, but we convinced him. The girl will soon join college,” she added. 
 
 These two cases in April were the first to be reported to Makkala Sahayavani this year. Experts attribute this to declaration of PU results that coincide with the marriage season. 
 
 
 
 
 
