GURUGRAM: The   of controversial real estate company   may soon land in trouble. Judicial magistrate first class Jyoti Grover has directed police to file an FIR against its directors, and provide the   its compliance   by April 24. The direction was issued against a complaint filed by buyers of Spire Edge and IT Park, developed by AN Buildwell in Sector 8, Manesar. The project was launched in 2008 over 10 acres of land, and 1,274 people invested in it under an assured return scheme.

 “The developer had promised to give us assured returns, but stopped paying us from 2014,” said Renuka Kulkarni, complainant, who said the developer had lured buyers like herself with promise of assured returns. She added that even the terms of their agreement were changed arbitrarily. “Units were sold with a 99-year-lease, but the lease period was later reduced to 29 years in a one-sided agreement,” said Kulkarni, who filed the complaint with economic offence wing (EOW) of Gurugram police after she refused to sign the agreement.
 
 But no action was taken by police. In the meantime, all directors of the company resigned, and the company went into liquidation. “They (developer) went into liquidation to avoid legal action,” said Kulkarni.
 
 With police unhelpful, she filed a case before the Gurugram court in 2017, against 18 people, companies including AN Buildwell and its associates, and its directors. 
 
 Umesh Gulati, counsel for the complainant, said EOW told the court that no action was taken in the case as there’s another case against the company pending before Delhi high court. “Pending proceedings against AN Buildwell before Delhi HC is related to liquidation, and there is no stay against any criminal proceedings proposed to be taken by any aggrieved person,” said Gulati.
 
 The court observed that there was enough material to probe the allegation against directors S K Hooda, Sandeep Hooda and Sunil Gandhi. It also observed that since the involvement of the other employees and associate companies in the offence is not clear at this stage, they need not be included in the FIR. If anything comes up against them during the probe, their names should be included then. Despite repeated attempts by TOI, the developer could not be contacted for their reaction.
 
 
