Last week, the   (UGC) granted   to 60 educational institutions including 52 universities, and eight colleges across the country. So, what does autonomy really mean? Does it mean implementation of better courses? More accountability? Or would it lead to a fee hike and segregate the privileged and underprivileged students? What’s Up, Campus? explores… 

 Nestled in  , on the outskirts of Pune, MIT University opened its doors for our team on a Sunday morning. As we went inside the beautiful campus, we were greeted by students from different branches of journalism, eagerly waiting to participate in the on-campus discussion. The topic of the day was how being an autonomous institute impacts students’ academic life. 
 
 Over the years, different institutes from the city were given autonomy, the latest being MIT University which has joined the likes of   and CoEP to become autonomous eight months ago. As we sat down to discuss the pros and cons of the UGC’s decision to grant autonomy to 60 educational institutions in the country, students at the   were ready with their points to make a strong argument.
 
 
 
 The discussion began with first year mass communication student Anurag Ramanujan, who said, “The biggest disadvantage of studying in a large university system is their structural deficiencies that slow down decision-making. Every decision needs to go through layers of administrative setups like board of studies and other such bodies. On the other hand, autonomous colleges can develop courses in accordance with global employability and conduct tests and publish results in time. For example, our university has courses like peace and music therapy which can be chosen as major or minor subjects during graduation.” Adding to this, Aditya Surve, another journalism student, said, “We get a chance to participate in several cultural and international events which are organised throughout the year at MIT University. You cannot see such vibrancy in a government-funded university. I feel students are given more creative platforms to grow in autonomous colleges.”
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Students of Symbiosis College, which was recently granted autonomous status (Grade I), feel that autonomy brings accountability with it. Ruhi Kumbhare, a BBA second year student at Symbiosis, said, “In bigger universities, there are thousands of students who appear in exams for a course, but there are only a few faculty members to check the papers. Chances of mistakes are higher in such scenarios. In autonomous colleges however, there is more accountability.” To this, Nafisa Khan, a student of English literature at Fergusson College, said, “We have seen how our college has changed in terms of governance and accountability. The administrative work has become faster too. Autonomy is a boon for all students.” Piyush Patil, who is currently pursuing BA first year in journalism at MIT-ISBJ, spoke about the difference between studying under an affiliated university and autonomous one. He said, “Things as simple as filling exam forms are a headache for students in a government university. Most of it is still done manually and students have to wait for weeks for confirmation. In autonomous or private colleges, we have an online portal wherein students can fill the forms and get confirmation immediately. I feel autonomous colleges are evolving with time and students are given priority here, which, I feel, is important for our generation.” Rajvardhan Jedhe, another student, added, “A major problem that students face in a government-funded university is delay in examination. I was studying at a government university and have faced problems like name appearing with a spelling mistake on my identity card and delay in results. Autonomous colleges, on the other hand, take these things very seriously.”
 
 
 
 As the discussion proceeded further, we felt that students feel very strongly about having international standard infrastructure on college campuses, which was another issue highlighted during the interaction. Kunjansinh Rajput, a student of BA mass communication, said, “Post getting autonomous status, we have seen how fast the infrastructure of our college was developed. Take the example of the journalism school. We got a new administrative building with studios and a newsroom. Each one of us gets practical exposure here.” Concluding the discussion with a relevant point, Yashaswvini Ayyar, a student pursuing film-making and foreign languages, said, “I’m interested in dance, writing poetry and languages and my college is encouraging me. Where can we find such personal attention in large universities? Here, every student is an individual and has a say in decision-making.” 
 
  
  
 
 Autonomous colleges have a more democratic process. each one of us feels empowered here. take an example of our college’s faculty feedback system, which allows us to assess our teachers. if we find any shortcomings in teaching, we can flag it to our administration. this is something a government-funded university would never do. each student has a voice in an autonomous setup. 
 
 
 
 There is a lot of emphasis on practical knowledge rather than theory in autonomous colleges. in the first year of college, i got an opportunity to interview writers and educationists for practical purposes, which is not the case for my friends studying in a government-affiliated college. Here, we have flexibility to choose subjects too. I think autonomy puts students first.
 
 
 
 In private colleges, students are cushioned. in government institutes, collegians have to fight for their rights. a student paying `3000 from low income background can study with well-off students there. it prepares them to deal with the real world. also, because of high fees, some students don’t get an opportunity to study in an autonomous college. This, i feel, is one drawback of autonomous colleges. 
 
 
 
