For Hindi film music buffs, composer duo   and   Ravjiani, better known as  , need no introduction. Touted to have introduced the genre of modern sound in  , the two began their journey in the industry in 1999, and four years later, 'Jhankar Beats' marked their career’s turning point — it won them several awards and immense popularity. 

 Over the past 15 years, they have been consistently counted among India’s top composers. The two brought in 2018 on a high note as well, with their latest hits ' ' and 'Dil Diyan Gallan' from 'Tiger Zinda Hai' striking a chord with Indians across the world.
 
 The Salman Khan-Katrina Kaif starrer is their eighth film with Aditya Chopra’s production house, and the fourth consecutive musical success of the team, after 'Fan', 'Sultan' and 'Befikre'.
 
 As testament to their ability to generate songs that connect, their 2016 single 'Nashe Si Chadh Gayee' from 'Befikre', became one of the most viewed Indian film songs on a video-sharing platform. And now, 'Swag Se Swagat' has broken that record, besides becoming one of the most watched songs within 24 hours of its release.
 
 Vishal says, “The success of our music is very heartening; Shekhar and I work hard, and put our heart and soul into everything we do. The fact that people have loved these songs will make us more grounded and inspire us to work harder.”
 
 The composers-singers-producers-writers are also reportedly hugely in demand for live shows. So, how do they balance their hectic live-performance and recording schedules? Shekhar answers, “Making music, recording it, releasing it, and then performing it — it’s one process. We love to be in the studio as much as we love being on stage. We’ve done over 1,000 shows worldwide, and all of them have been stellar. The energy and the audience response that we receive when we perform, is the real payoff for us. We’re deeply grateful for all the love, and hope to keep entertaining you all for a long time.”
 
 The duo has also been part of some interesting and genre-bending collaborations with international artistes such as Akon (whom they brought to India to sing the 2011 hit 'Chhammak Challo'), Imogen Heap (a Grammy winning, genre-defying UK artiste), and recently, The Vamps (a band from the UK for whom they wrote and produced the popular single, 'Beliya').
 
 What makes them the go-to guys for international acts?   says, “We like to try new things, and have a great time working with new people. We speak the languages of international and Indian music, and maybe that’s what makes us ideal collaborators.”
 
 
 
