New Delhi: Will Delhi be able to avoid the scourge of sewer deaths when the monsoons arrive and desilting work begins this year? The city is depending on the experience of the Hyderabad municipality to do so. Delhi Jal Board will use 200 “tailor-made”, next-generation   cleaners each costing around Rs 40 lakh to avoid having people going into the capital’s clogged sewers. 

 "The tender for the procurement of these custom-made sewage cleaning machines has been issued and the bids will close on May 13,” said Dinesh Mohaniya, Delhi Jal Board vice-chairman and MLA from Sangam Vihar. “Each machine we acquire will be given for operation to a Dalit entrepreneur.”
 
 The machine, whose specialised design was finalised over the past four months, has three components for desilting, jetting and rodding. “DJB teams visited Hyderabad and Pune to learn from those cities about desilting. We have carried out test runs with the final product and have now standardised the specifications,” Mohaniya said.
 
 Based on Delhi’s needs, the machine was custom designed and added desilter and rodding components to the jetting part that the Hyderabad model had. The desilter component consists of a hand-like mechanical grabber, which digs and then puts the silt in an attached box. For jetting, the machine has a high-pressure water pump capable of unclogging blocked drains between sewer chambers. And the bamboo sticks used by   scavengers to cleared choked lines are to be replaced by the rodding component consisting of flexible aluminium rods that rotate speedily while simultaneously pushing forward.
 
 Since the machine is smaller than the super sucker trucks currently used, it will be able to work in the narrower lanes also, reducing the need for human intervention. At least 10 sanitation workers had died while cleaning the city’s sewers and septic tanks last year.
 
 Government officials said that the 200 machines will be given to people engaged in manual scavenging so that an entrepreneurship ecosystem can be built around them. “The government will enter into a tripartite agreement with banks and the Dalit Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industries to empower people engaged in manual clearing of sewers,” Mohaniya said. DICCI, which has the mandate to promote Dalit entrepreneurship, will help in the selection process and capacity building while the banks will provide financial loans.
 
 “Delhi Jal board will guarantee that a certain amount of work is provided to people who get to own these machines. Such a financial model can work,” an official explained. “These machines will be helpful in maintaining sewer lines and help eliminate the practice of the manual scavenging.”
 
 
