HYDERABAD: The woman who was murdered by the caregiver of her paralytic husband had hired the man on May 7. But what she didn’t know was that the man was an accused in a murder case in Armoor. Even the agency from where he was hired didn’t know this as it had failed to check his credentials or background.

 
 Sulochana had hired caregiver N  , 28, from Sudha Home Care Services, Nursing Caretaker Old Age Home and Physiotherapy Office at   for a monthly salary of rs 18,000 to care of her paralytic husband  .
 
 On May 18, Arun did not report for work and returned only at 7.30pm on May 19. Sulochana’s body was found on the bed by the domestic help who came at 7am on Sunday.
 
 “The assailant had smothered Sulochana with a pillow and then stabbed her in the throat with a knife. He took her mangalsutra and gold earrings, both weighing about four tolas, and silver anklets weighing about eight tolas,” Trimulgherry inspector R Rajeswara Rao said. Arun also took two cellphones.
 
 The domestic help immediately alerted Sulochana’s son  , who lives in Mehdipatnam. Police rushed to the spot and called Clues Team to gather forensic details from the crime scene. “The Clues Team collected fingerprints and seized the knife found near the body,” the inspector said. Cops also analysed CCTV footage near Kamala Enclave and found that Arun had left the apartment complex at 3.45am on Sunday.
 
 Krishna Rao told police that his mother had called him around 9.45pm on Saturday complaining about Arun’s rude behaviour and the argument she had with him about not treating Kantha Rao properly. Krishna Rao was planning to visit his parents on Sunday. The family was also planning to shift the elderly couple to their daughter’s house from June 1. Knowing this, Arun might have executed his murder plan, police said.
 
 Records at the home care service agency said that Arun is agraduate from   village in Dichpally mandal of   district. “The agency did not do his background verification,” an investigating official said. Police found that he was involved in a murder case at Armoor two years ago.
 
 On Saturday, Arun had purchased a new SIM card and used it to make phone calls to Sulochana. He has now switched off his phone. Cops have launched amanhunt.
 
