JAIPUR: In a   against   accused  , the police have named his wife Seeta as one of the witnesses.

 Independent witnesses against Raigar include his wife Seeta who too confirmed that she was aware that her husband had killed a Bengali labourer and was in a dispute with 45-year-old woman Daali Bai.
 
 “Since accused had kept daugther of Daali in confinement for 10 months in a house, he was slapped a fine of Rs 10,000 by a caste panchayat,” this was also confirmed in the statements by the accused’s wife.
 
 Police have also made a nurse, identified as Jyoti, an independent witness to prove that he was keeping the girl in a housing board flat in Rajsamand in confinement.
 
 “He was supposed to bring back the minor girl from West Bengal from the house of one Ballu Sheikh with whom the minor girl had eloped. He brought her back to Rajsamand but kept the girl in confinement without the knowlege of her mother. A caste panchayat had to intervene to get the girl released,” an officer added.
 
 Police through scientific, oral and other evidences have managed to refute all his claims including he wanted to kill somebody else not Afrazul.
 
 TOI has a copy of the chargesheet, in which police have brought to fore that Shambu was in a illicit relationship with many women and in order to deviate attention of public and one of the woman’s family he staged various things through 5 videos to give it a communal colour.
 
 When contacted Anand Srivastav, inspector general of police, Udaipur range, said, “To grab media attention after the murder, he did various things including recording hate videos. We have quashed all his rubbish claims.”
 
 “We have also brought it to the notice of the court that he (Shambu) wanted to create communal tension after the murder in order to became a hero in the eyes of Hindu fundamentalists,” said a senior officer who was part of interrogation and was also involved in prepation of the chargesheet against Shambhu Lal who brutally killed a Bengali labourer.
 
 In the chargesheet police have also said that the accused one year prior to the murder had stated watching videos of Hindu fundamentalists, Ram Temple, terrorism in Kashmir and hate videos against the Muslim community. “The four pages written by the accused in which he had justified the murder were in English. He had used google translator to convert his hate speech into English,” an officer said.
 
 
 
 
