KOLKATA: A group of youths carried swords at a Hanuman Jayanti procession in Hooghly’s Bansberia on Saturday afternoon defying the state’s directive against display of weapons in processions. The Bansberia procession was the only exception to the otherwise peaceful Hanuman Jayanti celebrations on Saturday.

 The sword-wielding youths were walking in the procession led by   president Subir Nag and Trinamool councillor of Bansberia Municipality Amit Ghosh in police presence. The rally began from Bansberia’s   area and followed the scheduled route to the local Hanuman temple. “We were there during the procession but couldn’t spot those youths. But I have heard of it and will start a case against them,” said additional superintendent of police (rural) Kamanashis Sen. The state administration has taken exception to the case and directed Hooghly police to book the culprits.
 
 The   Hooghly president, however, didn’t take note of participants carrying swords in the procession. “We have been taking out the procession for the last nine years as part of our tradition. We followed the route that police had fixed. There was no violence in the area,” Nag said. Trinamool district president and Bansberia MLA Tapan Dasgupta conceded that some men in an inebriated state were carrying swords in the procession. “Trinamool supporters spotted them and drove them out of the rally,” Dasgupta said.
 
 There was tension in Kolkata’s Chitpore in the morning after locals broke additional officer in charge Sachin Mandal’s head following a tiff at Sarbamangala Ghat where he had gone to offer the pujas late in the night on Friday. Members of another organisation gathered at south Kolkata’s Manoharpukur raising Jai Shree Ram slogans in the evening and allegedly took out a rally without police permission. Such stray cases were also reported from the fringe areas of the trouble-torn Asansol-Raniganj-Durgapur belt. Trinamool councillors participated in the Hanuman Jayanti processions on BT Road — from Dunlop More to Bonhooghly — and also on the   near Panihati Sitaram Mandir, while Trinamool seniors chose to stay away.
 
 However, Trinamool minister and   Lakshmi Ratan Shukla led the procession in the morning, while BJP’s Howrah rural president Anupam Mullick organised processions in the once riot-hit Dhulagarh area, and also near the Tehatta school where students were denied holding Saraswati Puja, two years ago, apart from Panchla and Sankrail.
 
 Unlike last year, the   didn’t take out Hanuman Jayanti processions. They instead offered pujas in the local Hanuman temples. The   also concentrated in temples and read out Hanuman Chalisa all through the day.
 
