AURANGABAD: Nashik-based Enviro-Biotech on Thursday started the waste processing in the city through aerobic composting with the use of natural bio-culture.

 The 10-member team of the private agency began its work with 350 tonne mixed waste dumped at Aurangabad Municipal Corporations land opposite   at Kotwalpura. The waste was deposited at the site during last month.
 
 Acting municipal chief Naval   has looped in Enviro-Biotech, which is known to have played a significant role during Nashik waste crisis around   in 2015. Director of the agency, Jayant Pawar who is supervising the processing work in town, told TOI that it will take around 18 days for the aerobic digestion of waste. “The waste is being converted into vertical heaps and will be regularly turned using JCB with regular addition of bio-culture (decomposing agent), water and good quality compost,” Pawar said.
 
 This treatment will help reduce the volume of the waste which will then be segregated using ballistic separator, a machine which will be brought from Nasik. In a months time, this 350 tonne waste will be completely processed, Pawar said. He has also worked to clear the landfill at Trimbakeshwar with the same process. The entrepreneur confirmed that the procedure does not cause any foul smell and the procedure is scientifically tested.
 
 Meanwhile, Enviro-Biotech will work to processing waste at three other sites including Central Naka and Padampura. Pawar said, “The waste dumped at the Kotwalpura is mixed. However, it would have been better if the waste was segregated.” Pawar strongly advocated segregation at source saying that it is the basic of waste management. 
 
 Earlier, a Nasik-based NGO had given presentation to the district collector and in-charge municipal chief suggesting measures to resolve the garbage logjam. Following the resistance of villagers and consequent order by the high court on waste dumping at   dump yard, the waste especially mixed waste started piling up in the city.
 
 
