 alias Shotgun alias Shatru knows the media call him ‘sulking’ and ‘disgruntled’ and use puns like ‘BJP’s Shatru’ while reporting his candid comments on his party. “But I won’t change my habit of calling a spade a spade,” said the   MP as he interacted with TOI’s editorial team at the newspaper’s office in Patna on Friday. Raj Kumar excerpts the questions and answers:

 
 
 
 I speak out only when I feel that’s for the betterment of my party. That’s not rebellion; there’s nothing personal. And, more importantly, that’s not inspired by any personal ambition. Although you guys use adjectives like ‘sulking’ and ‘disgruntled’, trust me ‘I have no demand, no expectation’. Chaah gayee, chinta miti, manua beparwah.
 
 Demonetisation was wrong as it tore into our economy. So is the complicated GST. Forcibly retiring the party’s talented seniors is also wrong. Why can’t an experienced politician remain active so long as his body and brain are fit when lawyers, doctors and academics can pursue their profession at that age? I ask such questions because the BJP is a  , and everyone has the right to ask questions in a democracy.
 
 The BJP had just two MPs when I joined it. I have toiled day and night to make it what it is today. You are aware I was one of the party’s few crowd-pullers those days. Why should I quit? If the party thinks I am no longer of any use, well, I am not the one to dare it to take action against me.
 
 
 
 Waqt aane de bata denge tujhe aye aasman
 
 Hum abhi se kya batayen kya hamare dil mein hai.
 
 I have a personality. Mine has been a long, spotless political career. I have won with the highest vote share. And by God’s grace, mere chahne waalo ki aaj bhi kami nahi. You find out the turnout when I went to   to express solidarity with the agitating farmers of Madhya Pradesh on February 4. I shall never move around with a ‘mercy petition’ in hand to survive in politics.
 
 
 
 
 One-man show and two-man army won’t do. The concept of ‘maximum governance, minimum government’ may sound good, but it can succeed only in a city-state like Singapore, not in a big country like ours. We can progress and prosper under a collective leadership. Today, 80% ministers are the ones jinko pehchante nahi, pehchante hain toh jaante nahi, aur jaante hain toh mante nahi.
 
 
 
 
 I am very fond of Kejriwal for his honesty, integrity, probity. He didn’t join politics out of choice. Certain politicians forced him to. Netas challenged him at the time of his agitation to contest elections. Contest he did and the entire nation was stunned. He won 67 of the 70 seats of Delhi assembly. No one ever achieved and no one shall ever achieve such a stupendous success. Na bhuto, na bhawishyati. 
 
 Let me tell you very frankly, Kejriwal and AAP are here to stay despite the best efforts (of their opponents to disturb and dislodge them).
 
 I also praise   because her family has sacrificed a lot for the country. Lalu Prasad is my family friend since the day he came to my residence and cried with me following the death of my mother. I would address   as ‘dada’ out of sheer reverence. I believe in healthy politics and, as such, respect my political opponents. 
 
 When I am asked why I praise or visit opposition leaders, I retort that even our PM attended the marriage function of Lalu’s daughter. What is right for Peter should be right for Paul too. 
 
 
 
 
 Why only Patna, why not Bihar? If you ask me what I will do for my homestate if given a choice, I will say I will work for four ‘P’s: peace, progress, prosperity and pride. 
 
 I wholeheartedly support the liquor prohibition enforced by friend Nitish Kumar, but there should be ‘some windows’. There should be relaxation for, say, foreigners, patients, senior citizens in need of it...
 
 Also, tobacco is more dangerous in a country like ours. It should also be banned.
 
 
 
 She does consult me, but I keep travelling and she at times takes her own decisions as well which she shares with me later. Her mother, of course, is always with her.
 
 As for my reaction, I will one day be known as Sonakshi’s father. As of now, she is known as Shatrughan Sinha’s daughter, but I wish and pray she shines brighter than me and I am known as Sonakshi’s father.
 
 
