KOCHI: Old is gold for Kochi’s   as they increasingly shy away from purchasing new buses due to increasing costs, revenue loss and new government policies which, they claim, have made business unviable. After the dip in registrations of new private buses since January 2016 (only 19), no new bus was registered with Ernakulam’s RTO since October 2017.

 
 “Future of private bus sector is not promising, considering the current registration scenario. The new bus body building code also imposed a heavy burden on operators and no new registrations have happened after October,” said   Reji P Varghese.
 
  
 
 Rising diesel prices, employee wages, maintenance cost and tax force people to back out. As many as 522 buses have city permit under Ernakulam RTO. “The price of a bus was Rs 15 lakh a decade ago. Now it has touched Rs 32 lakh. Why should we invest such a huge amount on a bus that cannot be used after 15 years? Besides the gap between income and expense is huge. Road tax for a bus is anything between Rs 20,000 and Rs 30,000 for three months. Insurance is Rs 90,000 a year,” said   president MB Sathyan who used to operate 10 buses. Now, it is only two.
 
 A private bus earns Rs 7,500 to Rs 9,000 per day depending on the route. Half the amount is spent on fuel. The brake liner must be replaced every four months and the expenditure is Rs 1,500. At the same time, tyres need to be replaced every seven to eight months and the cost is anything between Rs 14,000 and Rs 18,000. In city, each bus covers over 200km a day. The daily wage of a driver touches is Rs 1,000 to Rs 1,200, while a conductor earns Rs 800. Meanwhile, non-cooperation among employees also affects the sector.
 
 “I operated bus on   route for several years. I used to pay road taxes by often pledging ornaments or I was in debt. I sold my bus owing to noncooperation of employees. The driver would often come late and we lost trips. We cannot also appoint employees at our will since there is union trouble,” said P K Nandanan in Chittoor.
 
 The bus body building code stipulates certain standards. “Earlier, manufacturing companies built buses and the passenger cabin was built in local workshops. But with the implementation of the code, a workshop should first secure accreditation for body building from the testing agency in India. It is quite expensive work and the workshop can built the passenger cabin for which it secured accreditation. This increases the price of the bus and dissuades people from buying new vehicles. In Kerala, only one workshop managed to get accreditation,” said an official with the motor vehicles department.
 
