BENGALURU: Holding placards, nearly 300 citizens from across Bengaluru gathered at   on Saturday afternoon demanding pelican crossings for pedestrians.

 Chanting 'Beke beku walk signal beku' (we want a walk signal) and 'Bidi didi nadeyalu didi' (allow us to walk), the protesters marched in the area for an hour or so, highlighting their right to walk safely on the road.
 
 Organized by Citizens for Bengaluru (CfB), the objective was to drive home the point that "walking should be fearless, easy and pleasant to do". In the wake of the proposed   skywalk project being halted due to public pressure, the #RightToWalk campaign is aimed at thinking of solutions for pedestrian safety that go beyond skywalks.
 
 Protesters also demanded clean and well-maintained footpaths, especially for the senior citizens and physically challenged persons. 
 
 Tara Krishnaswamy, founder of CfB, said the time allotted for people to cross the signal should accommodate the differently abled as well. "The signal has to be timed in such a way that people can actually walk instead of running. Not everyone can use skywalks; the elderly, handicapped and pregnant women may find it difficult to do so. The press button has to be installed at every signal so that we get out turn to walk. Just like we wait for vehicles, let the vehicles wait for us too. The roads, rules and rights are the same for all," she said.
 
 Along with CfB, members of organizations like  , an elder care organization,   organization for people's welfare and the association for people with disabilities participated.
 
 "A button needs to be installed so that people like us can use roads without any fear. The officials concerned must make sure that footpaths are well maintained. Due to poor upkeep of pavements footpaths and signals, many people dread stepping on to roads," said Radha, who is differently abled.
 
 Senior citizen   said, "There are people who even ride on the footpaths and don't allow pedestrians to walk. On one occasion, I fell near the Corporation Circle and injured myself." 
 
 
 
