   took a class with the students of   and School of Media and Liberal Arts at Bennett   (BCCL/Ranjit Kumar)

 
 He was a student of Mass Communication before he took up acting as his full-time career. Himansh Kohli has always believed in chasing his dreams, which is what he taught to the students of Bennett University. The actor, who recently visited the university in Greater Noida, took a class with the students of Mass Communication and School of Media and Liberal Arts and spoke about his journey of becoming an actor. The students enjoyed a special class with the actor, which was a break from their lectures, and interacted with him after his session ended. 
 
 
 Himansh, who has done his mass communication from a Noida-based university, was surprised to see Bennett University. When he started his session, Himansh drew a comparison between his alma mater and Bennett, and said, "I used to think that my university is the best, 
 . Where was this university when I was pursuing my graduation? It is my pleasure to be here. When I was in college, I would always think 
 university 
 journey 
 . I am so honoured that I got a chance to speak in front of you all."
 
  
  Himansh Kohli gave insights into the entertainment industry to the students (BCCL/Ranjit Kumar)
 
 
 
 
 Himansh also shared that although he wasn’t very studious, he enjoyed pursuing Mass Communication for his graduation. "
 BBA 
 Delhi 
 papa 
 business join 
 back-up plan 
 But for me, my dream of acting in films and TV was the most important thing. I had no idea how to start my journey, so one of my teachers in school guided me to pursue mass communication. When I got into college, I thought journalism 
 acting 
 . But it was all about knowledge and what news is all about," said the actor. 
 
 
  
  
 Himansh also talked about how his first internship at a radio station instilled confidence in him and helped him bag his first audition. "One of my courses was radio. I never wanted to be a radio jockey, but it taught me a lot. 
 time 
 Radio Mirchi 
 internship 
 , that was the best time of my life. Life 
 confidence 
 traffic updates 
 Delhi 
 traffic 
 . Since I had studied radio, it really helped me in getting to know the field. And it was because of this radio station I interned in that I got my first audition. The other important thing about this course is photography and since I have always been interested in it, I wasn’t scared in front of the camera on the first day of my shoot. Mass communication student 
 . We use so many terms in our course, which we might not use in real life, but when I entered this field (acting), it helped me a lot. When I was on the set on my first day, the cinematographer was amazed to know that someone who is debuting in a movie knows all the terms of photography," Himansh said. 
 
  
  Himansh met Raghunath K Shevgaonkar, new VC of   (BCCL/Ranjit Kumar)
 
 
 
 
 As the interaction began, most of the students asked Himansh to give them insights into the entertainment industry. One of the students asked, “Were you treated differently on the sets of your first movie because you have been a TV actor before?”, to which the actor replied, "I was very excited on my first day because I couldn’t believe I was there. 
 treatment 
 because I was living my dream."
 
 When another student Kritika asked the actor if one has to change himself/ herself to be in the field, Himansh replied, "Why do you have to change? 
 select 
 . They accepted me the way I was. The moment you change, you lose confidence in yourself. Then how can you convince the world about your strengths? Don’t lose your identity just to be somewhere."
 
  
  
 
 Shreya, another student from the same batch asked the actor what the has industry taught him. Himansh said, "There are a lot of ups and downs in this field like any other, but it is all about experiences. The industry has taught me that we all should live in the moment. 
 . Just enjoy the moment and don’t keep thinking about something that happened in the past." 
 
 After the session, the actor was also taken to the university’s gym at the newly constructed sports complex. "Oh, my God! A gym in the university! What else do you need?" the actor asked. "I am amazed by the infrastructure here," Himansh said. 
 
  
  
 
