NEW DELHI: 21-year-old Abhishek Kumar died when his throat was slit by a metal wire stretched across two   as he rode home on his bike in Delhi on Thursday. Taking suo motu cognisance of the gruesome death allegedly caused by negligence of police personnel, the National Human Rights Commission ( ) has issued notices to Union   and commissioner of  , calling for detailed reports in the matter.

 Asking them to file their responses in four weeks, the rights body sought existing guidelines for management of police pickets/ barricades, their deployment and removal and the extent to which they are in conformity with the smooth flow of traffic. 
 
 The Commission has also asked the police chief to inform whether any action has been taken against guilty police personnel as, reportedly, there have been several such incidents in the past. “He is also expected to inform whether there is a scheme to grant relief to the victims and their families in case of negligence by personnel of Delhi Police in such cases. The relief, if any, given to the aggrieved family in this case, to be informed along with the report,” says NHRC in a statement. 
 
 The commission has also observed that the incident indicates that the young boy died, “undoubtedly, due to the negligence of the police personnel.”
 
 “They kept the barricades unattended and used a metal wire to tie them in a reckless manner, absolutely ignoring the dangerous consequences of their act. The police personnel could easily foresee that metallic wire could pose threat to the life of any passerby. The police pickets and barricades are meant to keep people safe. Leaving them unattended, in such a careless manner, tantamount to criminal breach of duty. Due to clumsiness of the public servants, a precious young human life has been lost. This is a case of serious violation of human rights,” NHRC states. 
 
 The wire was barely visible in the near darkness, as informed by the locals, who reached the spot within minutes of the accident. 
 
 
