On a busy day, as usual I got late for my OPD! Patients were waiting outside, complaining about the delay. On the phone, I had asked my assistant to get the first patient on the bed for echocardiography. An echocardiogram is like a sonography of your heart. Imaging of all the body parts has been the domain of the radiologists except of the heart, which somehow stayed with the cardiologists. "Are you a radiologist?" asked the patient, lying down and his back towards me. A question I always cringe about. "No", I exclaimed. I am a cardiologist, an interventional cardiologist. "Who's that?" He asked. "An interventional   is one who performs interventions in your heart like  , Angioplasty" I said. "Do you have any symptoms like chest pain, breathlessness". "No, he said." "I am in the pink of my health." "Good for you" I exclaimed his heart was pumping was perfect." "Your heart corroborates you, it’s working fine" I said. "Do you have any past history of any medical disease?" He said, he was admitted few years ago, but can't recall the details. I asked him whether he's got his file. As goes with all the patients he hadn't got it.

 Medical record keeping is dismal in our country. Excuses range from 26/07 floods in Mumbai to reports not being valid for more than 2 years, you name it! Medical reports always occupy a corner in your cupboard, of no use to anyone, thrown away during Diwali clean-up of your house. I have colleagues telling me patients not informing them about bypass histories, only to find a scar on the chest during clinical examination. History of past allergy, renal stones are all lost under the piles of papers.
 
 People are just unaware of how much of a goldmine this data is to the clinician before he makes a decision. Clinical follow up practice is a comparative science and comparison requires before and after, which requires meticulous data keeping of all health events/episodes/procedures undergone. This is even more critical especially when there is a change of doctor. 
 
 Technology can help. Recently I have asked all my patients to click a photograph of important reports and upload in Google drive or Amazon cloud. Voila! Now you have all your reports online. Even if u fall sick on a trip to Mussorie no issues you can show the doctor your past records on your smart phone. You have newer solutions like Doxper, which is a combination of proprietary algorithms based on Machine Learning, AI and cloud computing; to make an instant copy of your medical prescription using a Digital Pen. This can also be shared with the patient. 
 
 My patient was back the next day with his file. I turned over the pages. It mentioned diagnosis - unstable Angina, which in lay parlance means a minor heart attack where pumping of heart is maintained but patient is suspected to have a significant heart vessel block. Next page mentioned angioplasty done one Stent placed in the right coronary artery, which is name of one of the blood vessels which supplies blood to the heart. I asked the patient as to how he could miss mentioning this part of the history. He said I just wanted to check my heart without you getting biased. That day I found one more excuse for patient not getting their medical records. 
 
 
 
 
