INDORE:   had set the   practice session on fire with his athletic fielding on Saturday. Though he isn't keeping for Royals this season, the Kerala stumper was looking sharp with making diving attempts on both sides that earned him a few pats from Heinrich Klaasen.

 
 Sanju, who is the second highest run-getter for his team with 282 runs in 8 matches, is under no pressure as he prepares for a do-or-die encounter against Kings XI Punjab. Rather he believes the situation could only work well for Royals, who are placed at the bottom of the table.
 
 "If we lose any game, we are out and we know that. We are under pressure. At the same time it is a good opportunity for us. Such crunch situations might help the team as the entire unit would take the field with desperation and belief," he said before he flashed his fielding skills.
 
 The so-near-yet-so-far journey of Royals under the captaincy of   is dictated by the under-performing big guns like  ,   to name a few. Had these big guns lived up to the expectations, Royals would have been placed a notch higher.
 
 "This is the business end of the tournament and these are the important matches. We hope that they do well for the team," Samson added.
 
 There have been many talks about the short boundaries at the new home of Punjab. Anyone from Rajasthan outfit visited the center turf ahead of the match, rolled his eyes around. They swung a hook or a pull in the air, while looking at the short boundaries.
 
 "I think this is the smallest ground in this year's  . I thought the match between   and KXIP will be a high-scoring one. Yet, the first innings score was between 170 and 180. So, you never know, what is going to happen in the middle," Sanju, who even opened the net session and slammed bowlers, said.
 
 "The wicket is helping the bowlers as well. Yesterday, the ball held on a bit. It will be an even game for both batsmen and bowlers. (Though it's high-scoring pitch), you need to give respect to the bowlers at the same time," he signed off, while quickly heading back to start the practice session.
 
