GANDHINAGAR:  ,   in the assembly, on Tuesday while speaking on the demands of the civil supplies and consumer affairs department, said that a scam worth Rs 12,976 crore had taken place in the public distribution system by diversion of grain, oil and other material meant for poor people in the state.

 Dhanani said, “There are leakages in the supply system of   material from the civil supplies department and district centres to PDS shops. Almost one third of the material is being diverted by the PDS mafia. When poor people go to the PDS shop to get wheat, rice, sugar or kerosene, they do not get it and have to buy it from black marketeers. Biometric ration cards were issued in 2010 to improve this system. All below-poverty-line card holders were forced to go to mamlatdar offices to submit their fingerprints. The government claims it has the biometrics and fingerprints of 100% of BPL beneficiaries and claims that 100% of material is going to PDS beneficiaries.”
 
 “Government records show there are 8,15,607 Antyodaya ration card holders and 3.37 crore National Food Security Act beneficiaries in the state. In February 2017, 1,39,042 metric tonnes (MT) of wheat, 59,486 MT of rice, 6,622 MT of sugar, 4,652 MT of salt and 2,56,660 litres of kerosene was provided to beneficiaries. The cost of these supplies is Rs 78 crore a month or Rs 936 crore a year. The subsidy cost is Rs 57 crore per month or Rs 686 crore a year. The total cost of material is Rs 1,622 crore per year. About one third of ration cards are fake and the government is wasting taxpayers’ money,” he said.
 
 Dhanani further said, “Fake ration cards have even been issued in the name of religious leaders like Morari Bapu, Bharati Bapu and others and rations are being picked up in their name using bogus biometrics. Rations are even being taken regularly in the name of   MP Vasant Gajera of Laxmi Diamonds, who is a leading industrialist. Those behind this scam, encroaching on the rights of the poor, must be given capital punishment. This biometric scam has been going on since 2010 with the connivance between district administrations and the PDS mafia. In the last 8 years, material and subsidy worth Rs 12,976 crore has been diverted and this needs to be recovered.”
 
 Jayesh Radadia, the state civil supplies and consumer affairs minister, in reply to Dhanani’s allegations, said, “The government has registered police complaints in Surat and Amreli districts and an inquiry is under way in all districts. The state government introduced the biometric system with the noble intention of stopping malpractices and taking necessary action in time. However, after receiving complaints about the biometric system, we allowed the issue of PDS goods by manual verification as well.”
 
 
