HYDERABAD: In a major blow to the much-awaited piped natural gas (PNG) project in the city, the Hyderabad Road Development   (HRDCL) objected to the laying of the pipeline on the Moosapet-Miyapur crossroads stretch.   functions under the municipal administration and urban development (MAUD) department.

 
  
  
 
 HRDCL chief engineer J Mohan Naik, in a letter to the BGL authorities, said the MAUD principal secretary had decided to stop the gas pipeline work along the HRDCL corridors. He said BGL should take prior permission from HRDCL to dig roads to lay the gas pipelines. BGL authorities stopped the works soon after receiving the letter.
 
 HRDCL told BGL authorities that they should restore the excavated stretch by proper refilling and compaction. “BGL should ensure that stretches dug up to lay gas pipelines be restored as they were before digging,” warned HRDCL.
 
 Thus, the ambitious project, of supplying piped natural gas (PNG) to domestic consumers in the city now remains a mere pipe dream.
 
 As per BGL PNG project, 16,198 metres of Medium-Density Polyethylene (MDPE) pipeline was to be laid between Moosapet and Miyapur X Roads. BGL sought road cutting permission from the   (GHMC) last year. But due to various reasons,   denied permission to BGL. As aresult, the PNG project in the city got delayed inordinately.
 
 About three lakh families in the city would benefit from the PNG project. Though the project began in 2009, it is yet to be completed thanks to many hurdles faced. However, BGL had indeed completed laying of MDPE pipelines at Shamirpet and its surrounding areas, and even began domestic PNG supply to residential quarters of   in November 2011.
 
 “But PNG project could not be completed in twin cities due to road cutting hurdles. The PNG project succeeded in Vijayawada and Kakinada in Andhra Pradesh, but in Hyderabad and Secunderabad we could not complete it due to various hurdles. Our goal is to provide safe, convenient and reliable gas supply to our customers,” a senior BGL official told 
 .
 
 In fact, BGL had held a series of meetings with GHMC to get road cutting clearance for the PNG project. Sources said BGL would approach senior officials to get necessary permissions to complete the dream project in twin cities.
 
