CUTTACK: The   on Friday directed the brother of the minor girl who was allegedly gangraped by security personnel in   and who later committed suicide in January, to file a plea seeking a CBI probe into the entire incident at the   high court. 

 On his return from New Delhi, chief minister   too said that his government has always wanted a free and fair investigation into the Kunduli gangrape and the minor's suicide. "The state government is moving the Orissa high court for a court-monitored probe by a special investigation team. I want justice at the earliest possible time in the most transparent manner,"   said. During the hearing, the state government's counsel told the Supreme Court that at least four similar petitions praying for a CBI probe into the Koraput gangrape and suicide are pending in the Orissa high court. "Taking note of it, a division bench of Justice   and Justice U U Lalit asked us to file our plea in the high court," said counsel for the girl's brother,  . tnn 
 
  If we are unsatisfied with the high court's order that we will again move Supreme Court for justice, added  . 
 
 The brother of the 14-year-old girl has said that he has no faith in the state police and wants an independent inquiry into the incident.
 
 He had alleged that attempts were made by state police to sabotage the investigation process. He also contended in the writ petition that malafide and ill-motivated investigations by police had caused grave and immeasurable damage to the minor, as a result of which she took the extreme step to end her life.
 
 The petitioner also cited that the state machinery tried its best to manipulate the medical evidence in the case as was evident from the fact that the state forensic science laboratory submitted two contradictory reports. In its October 16 dated report, the forensic laboratory mentioned the presence of semen belonging to two different blood groups on the recovered garments of the girl, however, in its October 23 report, it denied the presence of any semen.
 
 The petitioner had urged that only a CBI probe can unravel the truth behind the entire incident and ensure justice to his sister. 
 
 
