Vadodara: When the 2017-18 season took off, the Baroda Cricket Association (BCA) had stressed on players’ fitness as a key criterion for selection. But selection of Baroda team for the Vijay Hazare Trophy on Friday raised several issues about BCA’s own selection policies.  Viraj Bhosle, a wicket-keeper, was picked up by the selectors in the 15-member squad for Vijay Hazare Trophy, despite failing the fitness tests. And, senior player Yusuf Pathan has been asked to give fitness test as a precondition for getting selected in the team.  Nephew of former India wicket-keeper, Kiran More, 25-year-old Viraj had played in one Ranji Trophy match in 2016. BCA officials said that Bhosle and another cricketer Gurjinder Mann failed in the 20-metre sprint, Run A 3 and Yoyo tests that are done to test fitness of the players. “BCA management had earlier said that players’ fitness is very important but now they have selected Viraj despite not passing the fitness test. Then why take such tests?” questioned a BCA official.  “Yusuf Pathan has been asked to undergo fitness test now. What if he fails in the tests? Can the selectors ignore Yusuf for failing in the test while picking up Viraj who too didn’t pass?” the official questioned.  When contacted, BCA secretary (in-charge), Snehal Parikh said, “The team physio gave a fitness report stating that Viraj’s report was borderline. The physio said that he is not unfit to play so the selectors decided to pick him up based on his performance. Yusuf will undergo fitness test on Saturday.” More said that he is has no relation with BCA’s team selection decisions and refused to comment further.  The selection committee meeting witnessed arguments after Viraj’s name came up for selection as another wicket-keeper Taufel Jhilani had passed the tests and was available for selection. A former BCA office-bearer alleged that Viraj was asked to undergo tests twice to ensure that he doesn’t perform well. Sources in the BCA also claimed that Yusuf wasn’t informed about the practice matches hence he didn’t turn up to play. The selectors have kept Akshay Brahmbhatt as a standby for Yusuf. 