AHMEDABAD:   on Thursday suggested that the state government and   ( ) should undertake a “deep” study of city’s traffic patterns to identify issues and find solutions.

 A bench of Justice M R Shah and Justice A Y Kogje proposed a detailed survey on traffic situation of the city during the hearing of a PIL taking exception to the poor construction quality of roads, which had given way during last monsoon. The HC is also simultaneously hearing a PIL seeking directions to authorities to remove stray cattle menace from public streets. During long proceedings of these PILs, the HC took up the issue of traffic snarls prevailing in the city.
 
 After repeated assurance from authorities to resolve certain traffic issues, the bench said that the situation does not seem to be changing. While suggesting some solutions to deal with the issue, the judges commented, “When the judges can see the problem, why cannot officers see them?”
 
 Ahmedabad municipal commissioner Mukesh Kumar was present during the hearing and informed the court that the administration is to constitute a Unified Urban Mobility Authority to deal with the existing transportation and traffic issues.
 
 The government informed the court that as part of traffic management, it has undertaken study of 50 traffic junctions and installed countdown timers at 452 new junctions. It is going to introduce a mobile app to give people real-time information about availability of parking. It also informed the court about allocation of plots as parking spaces in different parts of the city.
 
 The high court said that the collection of penalty imposed on vehicle users should be for smooth traffic movement. The judges also said that the parking problems are caused particularly near hospitals, restaurants and temples. The authorities should ensure that permission for commercial activities should not be given without proper parking facilities.
 
 The judges also said that there are private places where parking space is adequate, yet visitors are told to park outside the premise. This practice needs to be curbed. The judges also criticized the efforts undertaken to deal with traffic problems and said that the no-parking areas have become parking zones.
 
 Earlier, the HC had asked authorities to remove parking of vehicles near crossroads. It had also ordered authorities to see that vehicles are not parked on flyovers.
 
 Further hearing on this issue is posted later this month.
 
 
