Only a lucky few get to be named after their character in their debut film. All of 26 years old, ‘Appani’ Sarath is one among them. After impressing the industry with his performance in   in 2017, he is now debuting in Tamil and even has a Mani Ratnam project lined up! What’s the dream ride like? Sarath tells us:

 
 
 I got a few offers from Tamil in the recent past but couldn’t take them up as I had projects in Malayalam. My first in the Tamil industry is Lingusamy’s  , starring   in the lead. I play the villain in the movie and the news of the ‘Angamaly Diaries villain’ being a part of it was much promoted in Kollywood. It was while shooting for this film in December that I got a call from Mani sir’s assistant saying that sir watched Angamaly Diaries and liked my performance! And he goes on to say that in Mani Ratnam’s new project, there is a character for me. They asked me to send my photos and also come to the office one day, which I did, when I went for the second schedule shoot of Sandakozhi 2.
 
 It’s a serious character and I did a screen test. I will start shooting my portions on March 11. I am not in a position to speak much about the role, though.
 Just like every other film lover, I too admire his movies. But beyond the fact that I am getting to work with him, I am thrilled that I am getting to be in close proximity with Mani Ratnam. I am super thrilled and happy. I have not spoken to him yet but I believe it’s truly a blessing that such an opportunity has come my way.
 
 
 
 I love the Tamil language and can speak and understand it very well, something I learnt by watching films. After Angamaly Diaries, I was interested in acting in the Tamil industry and had applied for auditions. Next year, you can expect a few Tamil films featuring me as the hero. Discussions are on and scripts are almost done. 
 
 
 
 Well, I don’t think you need to have a certain look to act as villain. Actors are supposed to be like water, they take the shape of the container they are transferred into – which is what happens with characters too. And I love stunts; the action scenes, jumping, running and dancing… Angamaly Diaries had many realistic fight scenes. I will soon shoot a solo fight scene with Vishal for Sandakozhi 2. Imagine, he is six feet tall and I am quite short — I don’t know how it will be on screen but I will give it my best. In fact, I did quite a risky scene for my upcoming Malayalam film Contessa too, in which I play the male lead.
 
 
 
 I play a character named Chandru in the movie, who comes across as a boy-next-door. The film revolves around his struggles to live, love, take care of his family and more. The title is connected with a surprise element in the movie.
 
 It has a story that has the earth, which we stand on, as an important element. A major portion of it was shot in Pattambi, where the temperature was 40 degrees. We all stood there wearing masks, as it was very dusty. For a particular scene, I had to jump from a 45 feet height. We didn’t have all the equipment required for such a shot. But all of us in the crew wanted that shot to come out great and so I did it with a rope. Thankfully, it got visualised perfectly the way we wanted it to look like. On the day of the pack up, a crew member fell from the same height and broke his spinal cord! He is now admitted in Thrissur Medical College hospital.
 
 The movie also has a koothu paattu, which I enjoyed dancing to.
 
 
 
 I am someone who never thought I would be lucky enough to enjoy all that I presently have in my life. I believe that if I deserve something, it will come to me and if I haven’t got something, maybe I don’t deserve it. For starters, Jimmikki Kammal was a song I sang and danced to for the first time on the big screen. I never thought it will be such a huge hit. 
 
 I am not a trained dancer and all I depend on is the natural rhythm that I have acquired, from my theatre experience. I am a disciple of Kavalam Narayana Panicker sir and I have done chavittu natakam with him, that’s all. I wasn’t on social media even until recently, so there is no element of self-marketing. All I want is for people to watch my movies and to be honest with me about my performance.
 
 I feel that people know that it’s me who danced in the song and that I am a very new actor who has been lucky to get things falling in place. That’s all I want.
 Are you taking any training for the action and dance sequence?
 Not really, all I do is practise theatre. I have a theatre group, where I also act. I’m not able to find time to direct a theatre production now, though I have plans. About half the writing for it is done.
 
 
 
 Two films are coming up. Kismath fame Shanavas K Bavakutty's next film and Manglish scriptwriter Riyas' directorial.
 
 
 
 I want to act as an old man, in roles like Thilakan sir’s in Perunthachan. I believe I can give my best if such bold, mature characters come my way.
 
 
