A stroll through the campus of KG   College of Engineering and Technology at Moinabad, can bowl you over, thanks to its unique ecosystem. Touted to be the ‘world’s first animal-friendly educational campus’ by the students, the campus doubles up as a shelter for abandoned and abused animals. Dogs, cats, pigeons, ducks, turkeys, hens and rabbits roam freely on the campus! Some animals also travel in the college bus with the students, making it a rare sight. 
Now if you are wondering who gave shape to this innovative concept, the credit goes to 20-year-old Mohammed  , an animal rights activist. “I first rented a place near my house to run the shelter home, but when it became difficult to manage my academics and the shelter, I discussed with our Principal, director and HOD about the idea of opening one at the college and they supported the initiative,” says, Zabi. 
 Zabi had started working for animal rights from the age of 13 and when he was just 16 years old, he founded a registered   named A   and started running a rescue and adoption shelter, rescuing over 500 animals and rehabilitating around 3000 animals in eight years. 
 
 Saidi Reddy, a professor, says that when he first heard the idea of opening an animal shelter inside the college campus, he couldn’t help but encourage him. “He was so determined to make sure it happens. He has now transformed the college into a beautiful shelter which is setting an example for all the other students on what humanity is truly about. I firmly believe that all the students should be given a chance to express their passion and colleges should work towards creating students who are more empathetic towards life,”adds the professor. 
 According to the principal, Ramachandra Srinivas Jahagirdar, the present educational system is building some great minds but not great hearts. “It’s important for every institution to make an effort to support students who are an asset for society, in whatever ways they can. We are very proud of Zabi, who is a role model for other students and a blessing to our institution. He has set an amazing example for the present generation,’’ he added. 
 
 Zabi also trains 25 young social entrepreneurs from his college on subjects ranging from women empowerment to child abuse. “I thank my college authorities who have given every student a chance to follow their passion,” signs off Zabi. 
 
 
 
