It’s wonderful to see the kind of energy   still has while he performs live — even after almost two decades in the industry. One of the pioneers of independent music, his band,  , opened doors to a whole new rock music culture in India in the late 90s. But that isn’t it. His collaboration with   has given music fans several hit numbers in films.
Going by the show they had during the weekend at VIT-Chennai’s  , we must say that the duo continues to be quite the crowd-pullers. Meanwhile, Vishal is all praise for the Chennai audience and says, “They are such a musically inclined audience. They know all the lyrics of our songs by heart, they sing along and sometimes, you even hear harmony from the audience. After all, Rahman and Ilaiyaraaja saab, who have defined our music, belong to this city. On Saturday, when we sang one line each of all our songs before winding up, the students went crazy. What more can we artistes ask for?”
 Vishal adds that the high the duo still gets, seeing people listening to their music continues to keep their collaboration strong even after almost 20 years. “We are the same-old kids who feel good when we know that others enjoy our music so much. That keeps us together. I still remember how excited we both were when we heard our song from our first film being played on a car stereo.”
 Vishal has also been a part of the judging panel of The Stage, an English singing talent hunt. Ask him how impressed he is with the western singing talents from Chennai and he replies, “Man, it’s not just about contestants in The Stage. Look at some of the bands from Chennai. The other day, I played with The F16 from Chennai. Kickass, they are. Look at Skrat. All these bands sound quite tight.” 
 What about his own band, Pentagram? Has it taken a back seat because of his film commitments? “Not at all. Pentagram is what I am and it hasn’t taken a back seat. Now, we’re writing a new set of songs,” he replies. 
 Prod him about the duo composing for Kollywood films, and he says, “I’ve sung quite a few memorable numbers in Tamil. And Shekhar and I had a blast working with AR Murugadoss for Akira. So, we would love to work in Tamil when an opportunity comes by.”
 
