Bhopal: The expansion of the Shivraj Singh Chouhan cabinet turned out to be a major setback for the leaders from Ashoknagar and Indore districts, where the party is sans representation in the state cabinet for many years.

 Indore, the commercial capital of Madhya Pradesh, was again left out without a representation in the cabinet rejig due to factionalism in the saffron party. Out of the 32 ministers, which include 21 cabinet and 11 ministers of state, there was none elevated to the post of a minister from Indore despite demands by senior leaders like Lok Sbaha Speaker Sumitra Mahajan (popularly known as Tai) and BJP national general secretary Kailash Vijayvargiya (fondly called Bhai) by their followers.
 
 Sources said the chief minister held discussions with the state leadership on adding names from Indore in the state cabinet, but could not reach a consensus. Finally, the party asked the chief minister to drop the names from Indore amid the ongoing tug of war between the supporters of Tai and Bhai.
 
 “The party had plans to include Sudershan Gupta, MLA from Indore-2, who is also close supporter of Sumitra Tai or to elevate Ramesh Mendola, MLA from Indore-1, who is a close lieutenant of party stalwart Vijayvargiya, as minister in the cabinet. But, the idea was dropped later to avoid confrontation within the party”, said a source. Leaders said that anyone left out could give a big jolt to the ruling party in the ensuing assembly elections.
 
 Vijayvargiya also reacted on the issue after the oath-taking ceremony in Raj Bhawan and told reporters that Indore does not require a ‘representative’ as the chief minsiter is the ‘nayak as well as ‘mahanayak’ there.
 
 “Indore does not require any representation (in the cabinet). Chief minister Shivraj Singh himself is the nayak and mahanayak (hero and super hero) of Indore”, Vijayvargiya said, while responding to queries on the reasons behind no representation from Indore in the state cabinet.
 
 Most unfortunate was former minister and Scheduled Caste leader Gopilal Jatav, whose name was dropped from the list on the last moment after Congress filed a complaint with the Election Commission in view of the bypolls slated on February 24.
 
 A sitting MLA from Ashoknagar, Jatav’s appointment was confirmed by senior party leaders on Friday evening and he was asked to reach Bhopal to attend the oath-taking ceremony. As names of probable ministers appeared in the social media sites, Congress decided to oppose Jatav’s elevation as a minister from Ashoknagar.
 
 Congress leaders alleged that BJP was trying to influence Scheduled Caste voters by elevating Jatav as a minister before bypolls in Kolaras assembly seat, which comes under Ashoknagar district. A complaint was also lodged with the Election Commission against the decision.
 
 “BJP was trying to influence local votes through Jatav’s appointment. This is violation of the code of conduct. How can a party appoint a minister from a poll bound district? Congress has also lodged a complaint with the EC”, said Congress state spokesperson KK Mishra.
 
 Soon after the complaint, BJP leaders and chief minister Chouhan decided to drop Jatav from the cabinet list. Chouhan also hit out at Congress for making unnecessary issues to gain political benefit. He announced that a minor rejig will soon take place, hinting that Jatav could still be included as a minister before main assembly elections in the state.
 
 “Raising questions without any basis has become a habit of the Congress. Cabinet expansion is a prerogative of the chief minister and I have exercised it. Another brief expansion would be done soon,” Chouhan told reporters in response to the allegations made by the Congress.
 
 Sources in the ruling party said that some factions in the BJP are unhappy for overlooking some districts, but they are hopeful that one last expansion is yet to come before the assembly elections, as hinted by chief minister Chouhan.
 
 
