NEW DELHI: The Supreme Court has sought response from   (Prisons) of 10 states, including Assam, on the issue of alleged violation of human rights of prisoners awarded death sentence. 

 The DGPs (prisons) have also been asked to reply on the issue of solitary confinement, legal representation, visitation rights of prisoners' families and psychiatric consultation of death row convicts.
 
 A bench of Justices MB Lokur and Deepak Gupta asked DGP (prisons) of the 10 states - Assam, Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Punjab, Delhi, Goa, Madhya Pradesh and   - to reply to the letter of amicus curiae advocate Gaurav  , who has raised the issue of alleged violation of prison manual and human rights of death row prisoners.
 
 "We would require the Director General (Prisons) to respond to the communication sent by amicus curiae since it concerns human rights of prisoners who are in custody and who have been awarded death sentence," the bench said. The bench has sought the replies by May 8.
 
 Agarwal has written a letter to officials of the 10 states after Anup Surendranath, an assistant professor at   in Delhi, moved the apex court with an interlocutory application seeking intervention on the alleged violation of rights of prisoners. He had raised various concerns about violation of certain provisions of state prison manuals and human rights of prisoners ,especially those have been awarded death penalty.
 
 As a follow-up to Surendranath's application, Agarwal wrote to the concerned DGP (prisons) on March 13, seeking their responses to the issues concerned.
 
 The apex court had earlier voiced concern on the issue of overcrowding of prisons across the country, saying prisoners have human rights and they can't be kept like animals. It had termed the situation as "extremely unfortunate" and said it is was "complete lack of commitment" on part of state government and union territories towards human rights of prisoners.
 
 The top court is hearing a matter relating to inhuman conditions prevailing in 1,382 prisons across the country.
 
 The Supreme Court had on February 21 asked the National Legal Services Authority to look into the issue of overcrowding of prisons and furnish figures regarding the population in jails where occupancy was over 150% as on December 31 last year before it. It had earlier expressed shock at the large number of people languishing in jails in "complete violation" of their rights despite recommendations for their release by the legal services authority and had termed the situation as unacceptable. PTI 
 
 
