 has earned the ignominy of being bracketed in a rare group of states with  . In terms of economic base, none of the comparable states are in this group. Tamil Nadu’s only company is Kerala, a medium economy, which is in a similar financial mess.

 Based on data collated by PRS Legislative Research, states like Gujarat, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh, which are of a similar economic base like Tamil Nadu, have either surplus or meagre deficit in their revenue account. Andhra Pradesh, despite being a new state, is confident of managing surplus in the revenue account in the coming financial year.
 
 Karnataka, which is facing an election in a few months, has promised a slew of welfare measures like Tamil Nadu. Still, it has managed to have a modicum of surplus in the revenue account. Experts say that Tamil Nadu’s overdependence on liquor sales as its main source of revenue is the primary cause of worry, because it is not picking up as per expectations.
 
 Tamil Nadu has deficit in its revenue account from the final accounts of 2013-2014. The last time the account had surplus was in 2012-2013, — a surplus of `1,760 crore. But the very next year, the revenue account slipped into deficit of `1, 788 crore. Since then there has been no looking back and in the revised   of 2017-2018, the government has forecast the revenue deficit to be `18,370 crore. In percentage terms, the revenue deficit has increased by 943% since 2013-2014 to 2017-2018.
 
 Deficit in revenue account is caused by a fall in tax and non-tax revenue while the expenditure either remains the same or shoots up. Tamil Nadu’s case is a mix of all these factors. "Political instability since December 2016 has been a major cause of concern in the state. The state is not in a position to increase its tax revenue, while other states have been able to do so," said N R Bhanumurthy, professor, National Institute of Public Finance and Policy.
 
 The government, however, is ambitious. "The government has aimed at 9% growth in the next financial year, but that may be a Himalayan task to achieve given the state’s economic and political instability. The government must first aim to increase its revenue by bringing in more services into the tax net and also increasing the non-tax revenue," said Bhanumurthy.
 
 Better tax enforcement will also lead to considerable increase in revenue. "Plugging loopholes in collection of tax as well as proper monitoring will lead to better revenue collection. The government must also look at alternatives for increasing its income rather than depending only on liquor sales," he said.
 
 Bhanumurthy said delivery system in Tamil Nadu is one of the best in the country, but it is a bane too. "Good delivery system has become a bane in the case of Tamil Nadu as funds allocated in the budget are spent in the name of welfare measures and is shown in the accounts. There are very few states which have a good delivery system and also account the same in the budget," said Bhanumurthy.
 
 Other economists feel the government must cut down on freebies as it is not productive. "The freebies given can be divided into productive and non-productive heads. The government must help the poor and needy with basic amenities and necessities. But spending tax payers’ money to fulfil election promises leads to drain of revenue account," said a leading economist.
 
 
