BHOPAL: More than 200 officials of seven state government departments, involved in carrying out development projects under   Package, have been found prima facie guilty of corruption and departmental enquiry (DE) has been instituted against them. 

 Majority of them have also been issued chargesheets by now. This information was given by the general administration department (GAD) of the state government to petition committee of the  , which had sought the information in response to a petition filed by activist Pawan  . 
 
 The GAD report, however, suggests that punitive action has been taken against only 23 officials/employees of forest department.
 
 The then   (UPA) government in 2008 had announced Rs 7400-crore special package for infrastructure development in Bundelkhand region, which in recent years has remained perennially dry leading to largescale migration from the area in search of livelihood. Out of this amount, Rs 3860 crore was earmarked for six districts of MP, which fall in the Bundelkhand region. Rs 2100 crore of the total outlay for MP has already been spent with no palpable change in the situation on the ground. 
 
 Ghuvara had moved the high court for a probe into alleged corruption in development works carried out under Bundelkhand package,a fter which the court had ordered an investigation into alleged scam by chief technical examiner (CTE), who carried out random checks of works done by various departments (seven in all) under the package and presented its report to the GAD. 
 
 The GAD had forwarded the report to departments for action against THE officials/employees concerned. After failing to get information from departments as to what action was initiated against officials held guilty of bungling by CTE, Ghuvara had filed the petition with the state assembly panel to get the information. 
 
 Now, deputy secretary of GAD   has informed the House panel that more than 200 officials/employees have been found prima facie guilty of corruption by CTE and DE has been instituted against most of them and chargesheet also issued against majority of them. 
 
 However, no action could be taken against some because they have retired from service by now or the work in which they were held guilty of corruption was carried out more than four years ago and rules didn't permit action after such a long gap. However, GAD letter to the petition committee of the House makes it clear that no conclusive action was taken against any of the alleged wrong-doers by any of the departments, barring forest.
 
 
