PUNE: The state government has announced a composite compensation of Rs 5.75 for those affected in the   violence in January 1 this year.

 While one person was killed in the violence and another was injured, properties belonging to a few persons were also damaged.
 
 According to the government resolution (GR) issued by the revenue and forest department on March 1, four persons will receive the compensation from the Pune Collectorate. The kin of deceased   will receive Rs 5 lakh, injured   will receive Rs 5,000, while   and Athavale Enterprises will receive Rs 35,000 each for damage to property, the GR stated.
 
 The Pune district administration had placed a request for Rs 6.10 lakh but the state government announced Rs 5.75 lakh as compensation.
 
 According to the GR, the compensation has been released under the Relief and Rehabilitation recommended by the administration.
 
 Pune resident deputy collector   told TOI that this is the initial compensation which the government has disbursed for riots. The government has sanctioned Rs 5.75 lakh though we had placed a demand for Rs 6.10 lakh. “We are expecting the shortfall in our demand to be sanctioned soon,’’ he said, adding that the amount would disbursed at the earliest. He said that the remaining Rs 35,000 will also be disbursed by the government as has been assured by the deputy secretary, relief and rehabilitation.
 
 He said that the other demand relating to damage of vehicles and other damages assessed by the district administration will be cleared during the budget allocation.
 
 The district administration had demanded Rs 64 lakh as compensation for the damages assessed by the officials. “We should get this amount soon in the upcoming budgetary allocation,’’ stated the RDC.
 
 On January 1, one person was killed and property was damaged around Koregaon Bhima where Dalits had gathered to commemorate the 200th anniversary of the British-Peshwa battle. The violence also spread to different parts of the state and a statewide bandh was called by Bahujan Mahasangh leader Prakash Ambedkar.
 
 
