MANGALURU: Namma Kudla on Sunday is all set to get a ‘cleanliness park’ that has been renovated from scratch in front of Pawan Apartments at Karangalpady. Union minister for petroleum and natural gas   will dedicate the park renovated by   as part of its fourth phase of Swachhata Abhiyan for public use, in the presence of Bhaskar Moily, mayor, MLA J R Lobo, MLC Ganesh Karnik and other elected representatives on Sunday.

 Incidentally, Ramakrishna Mission Swachhata Abhiyan, now in its fourth phase, has successfully completed 20 weeks in the current phase. Along with the drive, beautification and repair of civic amenities has been stressed under the abhiyan. The park in front of the apartment was in ruins for the past few years due to neglect and poor maintenance. It had turned into a den of illegal activities, and was a hangout for anti-social elements.
 
 Local residents had sought interference of many private and government agencies for its repair and renovation. Last year, the residents along with the local corporator, approached the Ramakrishna Mission and requested them to renovate the park under its abhiyan. Ramakrishna Mission had assured the residents that it would do so if they could get a NOC from the Mangaluru City Corporation, and the previous NGO that was maintaining the park.
 
 The renovated park has been named Arise Awake, taken from the famous quote of Swami Vivekananda. Special features of the renovated park include a 220-foot-long acupressure track made using round pebbles. Walking barefoot on this path will help in activating the nerves and veins, and improve blood circulation. This is also a type of exercise suggested by doctors, and the concept has been planned with the aim of introducing such a track for the benefit of locals.
 
 A water fountain with LED, seating arrangements, garden, lawn and lighting arrangements are added attractions of the park. Concrete letters ‘Arise Awake’on the compound walls of the park attract one and all. A small footpath has been made surrounding the park. A small area beside the park has been converted into a parking lot, using interlocking tiles, for the public. MRPL has sponsored the renovation work. MCC has sponsored laying the interlocking tiles and footpath.
 
 
