GANDHINAGAR: In a landmark judgment that will protect newly elected village   in the face of local power tussles, the   on Wednesday ruled that the panchayat body cannot bring a no-confidence motion for the removal of a sarpanch for a year after election. The limit has been fixed at six months for taluka panchayats, where the term is 2.5 years.

 There is no provision to restrict such motions in the   Panchayats Act, but the high court said that the removal of sarpanches immediately after their election was against the spirit of the law that is meant to give an opportunity for leadership to women and people belonging to reserved categories. The high court also said, “It is open for the competent authority to make suitable amendment in aforesaid provisions.”
 
 The bench of Chief Justice R S Reddy and Justice V M Pancholi said, “Once elected candidate is removed by way of no-confidence motion, resulting in vacancy, again the very same person may contest and win the immediate election. [The] same cannot be the scheme under the provisions of the Gujarat Panchayats Act, 1993, which is enacted to bring a law relating to panchayats in tune with provisions under Chapter IX of the Constitution of India.”
 
 The high court has also said that the no-confidence motion against a sarpanch, if moved after a year of his/her resuming the office fails, the panchayat members cannot bring in another no-confidence motion for the next one year.
 
 A few women sarpanches had approached the high court after they were issued notices by the authorities to hold panchayat meetings so that members could pass the no-confidence motion against them. These sarpanches alleged that they were not being allowed to function because they are women.
 
 The first case that came before the high court was from Sankheda village of Chhota Udepur district. Shivangiben Patel was elected sarpanch in November 2016. The very next day, when she called the first panchayat meeting, panchayat members moved a no-confidence motion against her on the grounds that she would not be able to spare time to work for the panchayat. The government officials granted permission to the panchayat members to pass the motion and issued a notice to the sarpanch to call a meeting of the members.
 
 Patel moved the high court through advocate C J Gogda and submitted that the Panchayats Act was amended to promote women in leadership positions. She said that seeking to remove them without allowing them to work defeated the purpose of the legislation. A single-judge bench rejected her plea. However, a division bench has allowed her appeal against the single judge’s order. After Patel’s case, nearly a dozen such cases came to the high court.
 
 
