BENGALURU: Companies in India are expected to give an average pay increase of 9.4% in 2018, a report by global professional services firm   said. That’s almost the same as that in 2017 — 9.3%. The report said the single-digit increase last year marked a departure from the double-digit increments given by organizations since the inception of the study. It was 10.2% in 2016. The study surveyed around 1,000 companies across 20 industries.

 
  
 Sectors such as professional services, consumer-internet companies, life sciences, automotive and consumer products continue to project a double-digit salary increase for 2018. Consumerinternet companies are projecting a 10.4% this year, but that is down from 12.9% two years ago.
 
 
 
 
 The hi-tech/IT sector is projecting an average hike of 9.5% in 2018, whereas IT services companies, which provide the majority of the employment in India, are projecting an average hike of just 6.2%, about the same as last year.
 
 The report said the focus on performance is getting sharper year on year. A top performer is getting an average salary increase of 15.4%, approximately 1.9 times the pay increase for an average performer. Moreover, the bell curve is sharpening with a significant drop in the percentage of people in the highest rating. Pay increases for top and senior management are consistently going down.
 
 “Despite an improvement in macroeconomic forecasts, salary increases remain at the same level as was projected in the previous fiscal,” said  , partner at  . “With increasing maturity, HR budgets are being realigned towards top performers as opposed to the broader population.”
 
 Pay increases are becoming more nuanced, Ghose added. “We are increasingly seeing a multitude of factors impacting salary increases such as size of the company, business dynamics within the sub-industry, nature of talent requirements and, quite obviously, performance,” he said.
 
 The attrition rate is seeing a continuous downward trend — the overall attrition has come down from an average of 20% in the previous decade to 15.9% in 2017.
 
 India Inc gives the highest increments among major   countries. In 2017, while India was at 9.3%, China was second with 6.5%. Malaysia gave an average increment of 5.1%, Singapore 3.9%, Australia 3.1%, and   2.4%.
 
 
