NEW DELHI: Mora Bai was making bricks till a few hours of giving birth to a daughter on December 6 last year. Her baby, Gauri, is the youngest of 41 minors among the 98 people rescued from   in two Jammu districts in the last week of December. The 19-year-old mother, who had left her village in Chhattisgarh in search of work, is now in Delhi, fending off the cold in a shelter for the homeless at Sarai Kale Khan.

 The rescue isn’t the end of a happy story for these families. For, without a “release certificate” that recognises their status as freed  , they can neither get the mandated compensation nor acquire identity documents, including Aadhaar, to be able to avail social security entitlements. They have the cautionary tale of Prahlad Kumar, 35, before them. Kumar was rescued from a brick kiln in Jammu five years ago and sent back to Chhattisgarh, but without a release certificate. In the absence of the document, he got no support and had to return to brick-making to be re-rescued, this time accompanied by his wife and four children.
 
 “Jahan jaatey hain, wahan poochtey hain proof dikhao,” despaired Baldev Raj, at 62 years the oldest labourer in the group. He left his village in Bilaspur around 25 years ago and his hope is that some elders there will recognise him and vouch for his identity. 
 
 At the kiln, each family made around 3,000 bricks a day. Wages were based on family size. A three-member family got Rs 500 a week, while the takeaway for a family of eight was Rs 1,500-2,000. They lived in hovels consisting of brick walls and tin sheets. Failure to meet brick targets exposed them to verbal and physical abuse.
 
 Ishwar Jagde and his wife lived this wretched life for the longest period — three decades. Jagde managed to escape from the kiln once and went back to his village. He claimed the elders recognised him and the panchayat helped him acquire an Aadhaar. He has kept the document secure all these years and while his wife, children and grandchild don’t have the identity document, he hopes his will help them get theirs. 
 
 The families have been repeatedly appealing to the authorities to get them their release certificate from the J&K administration and help from the Chhattisgarh authorities to return home. Copies of all their appeals and details of their story have been sent to the Union ministry of labour and rights organisations, apprising them that they were rescued from Samba and Reasi districts with the help of a team from the National Campaign Committee for Eradication of Bonded Labour, Socio Legal Information Centre, Delhi, and ActionAid India with the assistance of civic authorities in the J&K districts. 
 
 On Saturday, the   noted the “pitiable state” of the rescued people and asked the district magistrates of Samba and Reasi to submit a report within three days in accordance with the provisions of the Bonded Labour System Abolition Act, 1976, together with release certificates.   has also ordered the district magistrates of the areas in Chhattisgarh from where the labourers left for J&K to coordinate rehabilitation and report back within four weeks. In addition, the chief secretary of Delhi and the resident commissioners of Chhattisgarh and J&K have been directed to ensure the well-being of these families.
 
 The lack of identity papers is distressing to the group. As one of the labourers said, “We have been left homeless, with no source of livelihood.” All we want is to return to our homes, the others added — appearing not too optimistic about such a likelihood.
 
 The writer is working on the issue of human trafficking for labour under the 22nd National Media Awards Programme of National Foundation For India.
 
 
