HYDERABAD: The   Jana Samithi (TJS) president   on Sunday charged the K Chandrasekhar Rao-led government of working for the benefit of contractors, corporates, land sharks and for selfish gains of KCR’s own family. He gave a clarion call to all sections of people to strengthen the new political party, TJS, to bring down the ‘autocratic’ KCR-government.

 
 Addressing a public meeting organised at   stadium here to mark the launch of TJS, Kodandaram said the TRS government was “no different” from the erstwhile   rulers under whose regime “only a few flourished”. Only a single family, a few contractors, corporates and leaders are amassing wealth and looting Telangana's wealth under the present rule, he alleged.
 
 “The present rulers have lost respect for values for which the statehood agitation was fought and this government can be seen caught in vicious net of politics of land settlement, contracts and commissions. Those who were not connected with Telangana agitation and those who see politics as a means of amassing wealth are now holding top positions in the ruling TRS. There is a need for a change,” Kodandaram said.
 
 He said every section fought for statehood of Telangana and made KCR the chief minister. “None of us wanted to become MLAs or ministers. All we wanted was jobs, remunerative prices for agriculture products, affordable health care and education, equal rights over our natural resources, to live with freedom and self respect. But this government has failed to deliver any of these aspirations of the people. Time has come now to bring it down from power. I vow that TJS will work to render justice to all sections of Telangana,” Kodandaram said amidst thunderous applause.
 
 Though Kodandaram took care not to mention the name of TRS government and KCR, he repeatedly used words “this government and this chief minister”. He said, “The people of Telangana have to decide on which side they want to be. Is it on the side of a dictatorial government which does not even allow its citizens to hold meetings to stage democratic protest and speak against the government? Or with new political party like TJS which works to make agriculture a profitable profession, which would keep under its control the corporate and private educational and medical and health institutions?” he asked. He said TJS would provide jobs and fill vacancies.
 
