By: Simrat Ghuman

 
 LONDON: The   recently hosted its first   that saw the participation of nearly 30 cross-party MPs, including secretary of state for education Damian Hinds, England and Wales solicitor-general Robert Buckland and vice-chairman of the Conservative Party James Cleverly in addition to two Sikh MPs, Preet Kaur Gill and Tanmanjeet Singh Dhesi. The event was organized by Birmingham-based Sikh Channel in response to the rise of hate crime incidents against Sikhs in the UK, especially men whose turbans seem to act as a lightening rod for Islamophobic attacks.
 
 Kam Singh, presenter and project manager at Sikh Channel who organized the event especially chose to hold it at the Parliament because of an incident last month where a Sikh man’s turban was nearly pulled off his head by a racist who also shouted “Muslim go back’ at him. “We wanted to go back to the same place where the attempt was made to pull of the turban and go in the opposite direction by promoting diversity. We had such fantastic support from MPs and cabinet ministers, men and women alike who came and donned the turban,” says Singh.
 
 Refering to the turban-pulling incident while speaking about the event,   Dhesi said “Going from a situation where someone consumed with so much hatred tried to pull off my guest’s turban, to MPs wearing turbans to show their solidarity with the Sikh community is quite significant. It’s also important in the sense that it helps to demystify what a turban is and that’s good for both the Sikh community and community integration as well.”
 
 MP Preet Gill said, “Sikhs are clearly being targeted because visibly they stand out. This event also raises awareness that we can’t ignore the visibility of Sikhs and the hate crimes that they’ve been subjected to. A lot of people have become accustomed to the verbal hate crime and slurs that they face, possibly online as well, but we want more people to report it so that we get a good sense of the data.”
 
 The   has revealed that “one in four victims of Islamophobia hate crimes recorded by the Metropolitan Police in 2015 and 2016 were actually non-Muslims”. Instances of Sikhs being “misrecognized” as Muslims are frequent and added to this is the contention by various Sikh organisations that the police doesn’t take crimes against Sikhs very seriously. This event aimed to raise awareness of the turban, how it’s an intrinsic part of the Sikh attire and identity rather than an optional decorative headwrap. Equally importantly, it set out to educate the MPs so that it would familirise them and their constituents with the turban while sending a signal to the policy makers and the law keepers, the police, to take turban-related crimes seriously.
 
 
 The event was broadcast live on Sikh channel and generated a  , with the some MPs trying the turban on, and taking photos with the hashtag #respecttheturban. But do flashbulbs and social media chatter translate to impact in the real world where the discrimination actually takes place? Preet Gill certainly thinks so. “You’re talking about MPs from diverse constituencies. The fact that they can discuss what a dastaar means as an article of faith, the fact that they’ve engaged and listened to stories of people who face discrimination for wearing it everyday, is really powerful,” she said. Dhesi agrees, “Pictures of different MPs wearing turbans were all over the social media, they got picked up by national and international media, but also by the MPs’ local papers which their local community reads. They are showing solidarity with Sikhs and those who wear a turban then I think that message percolates through to various communities whether it’s rural or urban.”
 
 The response has been phenomenal enough that Singh has been invited by various government bodies to hold similar events locally. “The Scottish National Party has invited us to organize a Turban Awareness event at the Scottish parliament, many local city councils and educational institutions have asked us to do the same. We didn’t expect such a tremendously positive response, but it’s amazing to see people willing to learn about different cultures and stand together in the face of hate”, he concludes.
 
 
