CHANDIGARH: Panjab University (PU) syndicate in its meeting on February 24 will take a call on the issue related to the PU employees moving the higher authorities like the chancellor’s office on issues of action taken against them by the governing bodies of the university. After a PU senate member and PU professor approached the chancellor’s office directly, a committee was constituted by the syndicate in the December meeting to look into the matter. It was clarified that there is no provision for appeal against the decision by the governing bodies to any higher authority. 

 Referring to the Rule 12 of service and conduct rules for university employees, the committee discussed in the meeting that the rule implies that no employee shall approach any member of syndicate and senate with a view to “have a question put or resolution or motion moved on a matter connected with his condition of service or any disciplinary action against him; or to further any object which is capable of embarrassing the university”. 
 
 Moreover, the committee also discussed that as per the rule, direct communication or a personal interview with a higher authority and/or members of the syndicate and senate without permission of the vice-chancellor shall be treated as contravention of the discipline of the university. 
 
 The committee also noted that there have been repeated violations of the rule and no disciplinary proceedings were instituted in either of the cases. The committee also clarified that the authority for the management of and superintendence over the affairs of the university is vested in the senate and there is no provision for appeal against its decision to any higher authority. 
 
 Moreover, the syndicate will also take up the recommendations of the faculty of science about the revised grading system for calculation of the end-semester SGPAs, CGPAs and final   for a candidate for the BSc (hons). 
 
 The syndicate will also decide on the appointment of the chief of the university security. A letter was sent to the secretary,   and director/under secretary,   on August 23, 2017 requesting concurrence to fill up the post of the chief of the university security. 
 
 
