An international group of experts has thrown its weight behind a ban on hazardous insecticides, now under consideration by the Indian government, arguing that such restrictions would help reduce suicide deaths in India.

 
 UK-based   (CPSP) has urged agricultural commissioner S K Malhotra,   heads the committee on the issue, to ban not only the 12   under review but also several others. Such a ban is “not only imperative for saving health and the environment but for saving lives of vulnerable populations in India,” said the centre in its expert submission. Because suicides are often impulsive, removing easily-available lethal means can help reduce fatality, said experts, citing evidence from countries. 
 
 Pesticide ingestion causes over 1,50,000 suicide deaths globally each year, many of them in Asia, the report noted. The World Health Organisation estimates that about 20% of all suicides could be prevented through restricting access to poisons, in particular pesticides. “In comparison with developed countries, where agricultural-strength pesticides are only available to licensed workers and where few people now work in  , highly hazardous pesticides are freely sold and stored in many homes,” wrote Michael Eddleston and Leah Utyasheva of the CPSP. These pesticides are typically lethal so “fatality of self-poisoning is much higher in Indian agricultural communities than in industrialised countries”. 
 
 The recommendation is not related specifically to farmer suicides, a very particular issue, but generally to suicides in rural communities. 
 
 In several Asian countries, restrictions on import and sale of hazardous pesticides have been followed by a fall in the number of people dying from pesticide self-poisoning and in the overall suicide rate, the report said.
 
 In Sri Lanka, suicide rates increased after the introduction of strong chemical pesticides in the 1960s. In response, authorities began banning the most toxic pesticides in the 1980s, leading to a 70% reduction in suicide rates over 20 years. There was little or no effect on agricultural output from these bans, the report added. The group sent their expert submission to the government committee through the petitioners in an ongoing Supreme Court case. In April, the top court had directed the government to take a decision on banning 18 pesticides in two months. 
 
 
