KOCHI: The story of a child being molested in a cinema hall in the presence of mother in   had shaken  . But, in   there have been at least 10 incidents of  , where a mother-paramour duo were the accused, over a period of five years. Also, 17 cases of child sexual abuse cases were reported in Kochi in the first two months of the year.

 According to DCRB (district crime records bureau) data, the number for Ernakulam is even higher with as many as 43 cases being reported in the district. Data showed that the number of reported cases has risen by 93% over a span of four years.
 
  
  
 The total number of   registered in 2014 was 130 while the number of cases in 2017 became 250. The total number of cases reported in 2015 and 2016 were 150 and 224 respectively.
 
 Mother becoming an accused is not an extraordinary phenomenon, said prosecutor at the special court Sandhya Bhasi, who takes up cases of atrocities against women and children. “We have seen at least 10 cases in trial court where the accused are a mother and her paramour. The incidents happened between 2013 and 2018 in Ernakulam. The best way is to let the case come out as and how it happened. It should be tried in court and getting a conviction will act as a deterrent,” she said.
 
 The prosecutor said that such cases become public in various ways and it is hard for kids to come out on their own against their mother. “In one case in 2013, police picked up a woman, her paramour and the daughter after suspecting illegal activity. The girl revealed the abuse she had to suffer at their hands when police talked to her. In another case in 2017, the sister of a girl revealed her sibling’s ordeal as her mother and paramour were abusing her,” said the prosecutor.
 
 Experts said that people shouldn’t press the panic button but stay focused on making their children aware of how to prevent it. “It is good that such incidents are coming to light now. Earlier, such incidents used to happen but they were swept under the carpet. We should make our children more aware to avoid any such advances,” said psychologist Seema Lal, adding that parents shouldn’t be worried over case reportage.
 
 “Children should be made aware of such circumstances in a slow and steady manner. If they are bombarded with awareness lectures, there are chances of them getting anxious. Parents should create a amiable situation in the family where children can easily communicate with them. Awareness should be imparted to them through these conversations taking ample time,” said Seema adding that the awareness programmes should not be limited to ‘good touch and bad touch.’
 
 
