KOLHAPUR: With proper infrastructure, adequate staff, people-friendly approach and emergency response in place at all the 37 police stations,   has emerged the first Smart Police District in Maharashtra.

 Making an announcement in this regard at a function in Satara on February 24, chief minister Devendra Fadnavis said, “Following the concept announced by Prime Minister   in 2014, 37 police stations and offices of Satara district have gone smart.” 
 
 The CM added: Smart policing means proper infrastructure, adequate staff, CCTNS, internet facilities, efficiency, people friendly approach, time to time training, emergency response, sensitivity, credibility and greater use of technology.
 
 According to the official twitter handle of the CMO, out of the 37 police stations in Satara, 14 are in the A++ category, 12 in A+ and the remaining 11 are in A category.
 
 Satara superintendent of police   asserted that the district is the first in Maharashtra that has achieved the smart status. “In November 2016, we were informed about the concept and asked to start preparing for ensuring that all the police stations in Satara district become smart,” he said 
 
 The officer said that soon after the directive was issued, all-out efforts began. “It all started with laying emphasis on every aspect of the concept including infrastructural development of police stations, implementation of technology, mobility, community relations, police behaviour, investigations, emergency response system, traffic management and records maintenance.”
 
 Patil said that a drive was launched at all the police stations in the district to ensure that they are in good condition with adequate number of officers and men. 
 
 “All the police stations are linked with the police headquarters through a wireless communication systems and CCTVs. They also have adequate number of vehicles to respond in less than 10 minutes besides computerised records of the arrested and wanted suspects in the last 20 years,” he said.
 
 The concept was introduced by Prime Minister Modi during the 49th director generals’ annual conference in Guwahati on November 30, 2014. 
 
 Smart police station means (S-Sensitive and Strict; M-Modern with mobility; A- Alert and Accountable; R- Reliable and Responsive; T- Trained and Tech savvy)
 
 
