Scientists may never know whether hominids, the first intelligent primates who later evolved into homo sapiens (humans), also lived in  , a Punjab village about 15km from Chandigarh.

 This is because the Mohali district administration took more than two years just to get past the first stage of formalities for providing protection to an area near this village where 2.6-million-year-old fossils were discovered decades ago and were formally detailed in a scientific study published in 2016 in the journal Comptes Rendus. The presence of fossils, indicating hominid activity, could possibly debunk the theory that humans first evolved in Africa. This plunder of scientificallypriceless finds in the   has reached such an extent that most of them have been lost to private collectors, instead of being kept in museums or being used in research.
 
 If this loot continues, experts fear, clues vital to unravelling the evolution of the “ancestors of all the species of Man” could be lost forever.
 
 An April 9 visit to the village revealed that many fossils, especially the “scientifically important ones”, like the jaws and the skulls, had been bought or taken away by private collectors. With no law in place for their protection, the fossils continue to be on sale. Children of the village, who often take visitors around to show places where fossils are found, say they have not been able to find “good pieces” for the past five months. A boy from the village, Laddi, said a hilltop where an Indo-French team had earlier discovered fossils and stone tools indicating hominid activity, had been the one most exploited. One of the children had a fossilized skull of a hippopotamus, but without the jaw.
 
 Chandigarh-based NGO Society for Archaeological and Anthropological Research’s chief  , who discovered the fossils and stone tools, described the hippo skull a find worth keeping in a museum. “There is a possibility that this is the skull of a merycopotamus (an ancestor of the hippopotamus), which is very rare,” he said.
 
 When asked if there were chances that private collectors may have got their hands on the fossils which could help debunk the humans-came-out-of-Africa theory, Singh nodded in agreement. “I fear a lot of hard work might go to waste,” he said.
 
 After the Prime Minister’s Office asked the ASI to provide protection to the land, the premier archaeological agency had first contacted the Mohali district administration in March 2016. However, the first step of formalities, like identification of land to be protected, was only completed towards the end of last year and sent to the ASI in first week of March, according to an ASI official.
 
 ASI superintending archaeologist (Chandigarh circle) Vasant Kumar Swarankar said the process for identifying the land and then providing it protected status was a longdrawn one. “For now, the delay has been on part of the district administration,” he said. “There’s nothing pending anymore, though, on their part. We have send the plan for providing protection to the identified land to our central office for approval.”
 
 Swarankar added several steps were still required for protecting the site. He said the ASI would now contact all stakeholders as parts of the site are owned by individuals, forest department, and Masol village. “Since the land has multiple owners, we have a far way to go,” he said. “We will have to set aside three months just for calling objections.” Mohali deputy commissioner   said there had been no delay on part of the district administration. “They sought the revenue schedule and we sent it to them long back. All formalities have already been wrapped up,” she added. Swarankar added that no one would be allowed to take fossils from the site once it is notified as protected. “We might even fence it,” he said.
 
 
