She has lived in almost 10 cities, but   (Yamaha Fascino Miss Diva - Miss Universe India 2017) says that she loves calling herself a Chennai ponnu. Born in the city, she moved out when she was barely five. But she insists that memories of Chennai are etched in her heart. Shraddha, who went on to represent India at the   2017, was in town recently for a fashion show. Amidst her hectic schedule, she speaks to us about her connection with Chennai, her journey as a beauty queen and why harassment, in any form, is a big no-no. Excerpts:
Your roots are from here, but you’ve hardly lived in Chennai…
 
 I always tell people that no matter which part of the country I’ve lived in, Chennai is what I connect with the most. There’s something about this place that attracts not just me, but anyone from here who has had to move out for any reason. My family lineage is from here, my thaatha-paati live here. I speak Tamil and good Tamil at that.
 
 
 
 I studied in Boston Matriculation Higher Secondary School, and I vividly remember playing in the campus, sweating it out on the field. There is a small Aiyyappan kovil next to the school and I would visit the temple often. Oh, and the canteen used to sell five idlis for `3, and it used to taste so good. I also have fond memories of Kodambakkam. My family had shifted to Mahalingapuram and my grandparents still stay there. The streets were tiny and lined with trees. I used to play cricket in the alley with a lot of guys back then. I was quite the brat back then. I’ve stayed in a lot of cities. My father is serving in the Army, and I think we moved to Amritsar from here. I’ve almost changed 11 schools and nine cities before finally settling down in Nashik. I did my class 12 from there; I topped my school and scored the highest in the district. If Nashik is associated with career-related achievements, Chennai is associated with memories that are closer to my heart.
 
 
  ma’am asked me during the finale interview of the national pageant why I thought I was so different from the rest of the deserving contestants. And I told her that I have taken a part of each state I have lived in with me. If Punjab is welcoming and friendly,   is inclined towards art. People in Maharashtra treat you as their own. Likewise,   is culturally rich, with its movies, art and music wowing everyone. And that’s why I feel proud calling myself an Indian.
 
 
 After the national finale, I had less than 15 days to leave for the international pageant. So, I went to Nashik for the homecoming because my mother is there. I really wanted to come to Chennai, meet the government and tell them that ‘hey, a girl from your state is going to represent the country on an international platform’. I really wish I had the time. But I did come here after the international pageant to meet my grandparents; they were so thrilled for me. I remember bingeing on dosai with my chittappa, chitti and others here. 
 
 
 I was here for hardly a day, but I took my friends to Besant Nagar for some sizzlers and coffee. It was a little after midnight and we took an auto rickshaw. I must emphasise that Chennai is so safe. Except for a few incidents in the recent past, when it comes to women’s safety, it’s awesome. People are educated and they know the difference between right and wrong.
 
 
 Nobody wants to be sexually abused and people need to get that straight. Parents should bring up kids with that mentality. The conventional gender paradigm needs to change. When I was a teenager, I used to play basketball and netball, and I was going for the selection for state-level championship. One of the coaches was so nasty and dirty and he tried crossing the line with me and two of my other friends. I was just 14 and I knew the difference between good touch and bad touch. I was so shocked, but I knew I shouldn’t take it lying down. I took up the matter with a female coach, and she was also harassed by him. I was so furious that I refused to go on stage to be felicitated by him. I raised it with authorities and it became a huge issue back then. When I moved to another city, there was a change in my attitude. There was a different kind of aggression on the field. I was told to stay quiet if I had to climb the ladder of success. But I decided I won’t bear it. Harassment in any form — be it physical, mental or emotional — is a big no-no. I decided that nobody was going to mess with me and I would literally show the door to whoever tried. To live with pride, there needs to be a change in the attitude.
 
