CHANDIGARH: It won’t be easy for the   government to meet its Sunday’s promise of withdrawing all cases registered during the February 2016 Jat protests for reservation, according to experts. 

 They have said a majority of such cases were under investigation by a Punjab and Haryana high court-appointed special investigation team (SIT) and the CBI. Around 1,100 of these cases are under investigation by the SIT, headed by senior IPS officer Amitabh Singh Dhillon. The  , on the other hand, is probing nine other cases in which hundreds of persons are accused of attacking residential and commercial properties of state finance minister Captain Abhimanyu’s family and causing a breach in the Munak canal.
 
 Most of the cases, which include charges of violence, rioting, arson, attempt to murder and theft, have been registered against members belonging to Jat community. Haryana chief minister   on Sunday announced that the government would withdraw all cases registered in the wake of the violence during the protests. Following CM’s assurance, leaders of Jat outfits called off their strike which was to coincide with   president Amit Shah’s February 15 motorbike rally in Jind.
 
 Sources said the CM’s announcement would not have any instant relief for Jat outfits, as the state had no powers to   registered by CBI. Similarly, 1,105 cases registered in relation to violence in Rohtak district, which are directly monitored by the high court, can also not be withdrawn at this stage, sources added.
 
 The HC had ordered SIT’s formation in August 2017, after it noticed that Haryana Police were filing cancellation reports in a majority of cases in Rohtak district — the epicentre of violence during the protests. At that time, of the total 1,205 cases, police filed untraced reports in 921. In 184 cases, it was mentioned that no reports had been prepared. In this way, 1,105 cases had remained unattended.
 
 When contacted, Haryana advocate general Baldev Raj Mahajan said the state could request for withdrawal of cases only once they reached courts, after completion of probe. The AG, however, accepted that the state government would not be able to withdraw these cases unless they reached courts and they grant permission. “The CM has already clarified that cases only within the domain of the state, would be withdrawn. The Centre has similar powers for CBI cases,” he said.
 
 When asked about legal hurdles around withdrawal of cases,   (AIJASS) president Yashpal Malik said they had been promised by the CM that the government would approach trial courts under Section 321 of CrPC for withdrawal of cases. “It is government’s duty to find ways to fulfil its promise. As far as CBI is concerned, we have been promised that Centre will take appropriate steps to withdraw cases as well. At this stage, I cannot share the exact details because several forces are working against the Jat community, and they will create hurdles in normalising the situation by approaching high court,” Malik said.
 
 
 
 In eight districts of Haryana, around 2,100 FIRs were registered in relation to the February 2016 Jat stir violence in which 31 people were killed and hundreds injured. Public and private properties worth crores were damaged. To date, the state has approved withdrawal of 223 cases involving around 2,000 persons. The highest number of FIRs (1,100) was registered in Rohtak.
 
 
 
 
 The CBI investigating into four FIRs registered by   police in relation to the breaches caused in the Moonak canal. While video clips had shown that nearly 3,000 people were involved in the incident, the state had impleaded only four persons as accused. The HC had ordered a CBI probe after observing that the incident affected water supply to the national capital. Similarly, CBI are probing five FIRs related to attacks on Captain Abhimanyu’s house, his school and his newspaper’s press.
 
 
