Sometimes, bodily pain is enough to trigger a spark that ignites the fire within you. For Kausani Bardhan, a marketing professional, an excruciating   is all it took to realize where her body was headed. Kausani understood this temporary pain could lead to a permanent issue if she didn't acknowledge its root cause - her weight. By following a   and fitness regime, Kausani lost 20 kilos weight and this is how she did it in just 5 months!

 
 Kausani Bardhan
 
 
 Marketing Professional
 
 
 29 years
 
 
  78 Kilograms
 
 
 20 Kilograms 
 
 
 5 Months
 
 
 My turning point occurred when I experienced knee pain and realized my weight could be responsible for it. What jolted me further was that if I had continued like that, it could turn into a permanent issue. Also, I am soon going to cross the the 30 year mark, which may have aggravated the situation further.
 
 
 Poha or upma or corn flakes or a single slice of bread with stir-fried veggies
 
 
 Rice, sabzi, 2 pieces of chicken or a part of fish with salad 
 
 
 1 roti, sabzi with 2 pieces of chicken or 1 piece of fish
 
 
  Anything and everything from sweets to biryani
 
 
  for 30 minutes
 
 
  Muri (puffed rice) for in-between meals and home cooked Indian food.
 
 
 One fitness secret I unveiled is that consuming six small meals everyday keeps your metabolism high. 
 
 
 I look in the mirror and realise I look younger and fresher than I ever did. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 I have struggled for 28 years and this does not let me lose focus. 
 
 
 Perspiring is one major struggle of being overweight. Another one is that you need to think twice before eating.
 
 
  I am determined to maintain myself in this shape for the next 10 years and beyond. 
 
 
 I included very basic lifestyle changes which helped me lose weight. These included waking up early, sleeping in time and sticking to homemade desi food, except for cheat days.
 
 
 When I was jobless for a year and at the same time, I was putting on weight. This was the most depressing phase for me. 
 
 
 Stay disciplined and adopt fitness as a lifestyle.
 
 
 
 
 
 .
 
