CHANDIGARH: From City Beautiful to the City of Dreams - designed by master architect  's associate   in the 50s, replicas of Chandigarh's iconic manhole covers have now become an object of intrigue almost 1,600 kilometers away in Mumbai.

 Bearing a map of Chandigarh, there is one such cover located quite close to the Gateway of India and has become a part of heritage walks for tourists. Designed to celebrate the first modern city of the country, these covers were installed in the first phase of the Chandigarh till 1970, after which the administration switched to concrete lids for manhole.
 
 
  
 
 It took someone with Chandigarh connection to discover the link.  , a   (PEC) pass out, who is presently working in the commercial capital of the country says, "I had seen one such covers near my campus in Sector 12 Chandigarh and it was very surprising for me to find one in Malad, Mumbai. A bit of probing revealed that the local body here has hired a private firm to manufacture these. There are quite a few in the city. I conduct heritage walks over the weekend for a group called 'Khakhi Tours' and the manhole covers generate a lot of interest."
 
 
 
 
 Some years back, an eyecatching Chandigarh manhole cover had landed 120 km away in Shimla and was placed right outside the B Block of Indira Gandhi Medical College and the distinct design of the city’s sectoral design attracted attention of the passers-by.
 
 Talwar, who also runs a Twitter handle, “Mumbai Now and Then”, posted a picture of the manhole cover recently which prompted many from Chandigarh to contact him for more details. The manhole covers being used in Mumbai have certain elements, such as the word “Chandigarh”, missing.
 
 
  
 
 Chandigarh’s heritage items have cropped up at auction houses around the world in recent past, finally forcing the municipal corporation to conduct a survey of these heritage manhole covers still in use. There was a time when the entire northern part of the city (original plan) had only these specially-designed manhole covers, but now most have been replaced with concrete ones.
 
 
