Mumbai: Beleaguered   (PNB) suffered double   on Monday after reporting record losses of Rs 13,417 crore for Q4FY18 last week. The public sector bank lost its investment grade rating after   downgraded the lender to junk category. In the domestic market,   lost the triple-A rating its bonds hitherto enjoyed following a review by  .

 Moody’s downgraded PNB’s foreign currency issuer rating by a notch from   — the lowest investment grade — to ‘ba1’, which is a speculative or sub-investment grade rating. Bond issuers with a sub-investment grade rating have to pay a higher return to investors to make up for the perceived credit risk. The rating agency has said that the bank will need a capital infusion of Rs 12,000-13,000 crore in FY19 to meet capital prescriptions according to the   in Basel, which is effective in India.
 
 PNB joins the ranks of  ,   and  , which are sub-investment. Other banks rated investment grade are  ,  ,  ,  ,   and  .In a statement issued from Singapore, Moody’s said, “The downgrade of the bank’s baseline credit assessment and ratings reflects the negative impact of the discovery of a number of fraudulent transactions on the bank’s stand-alone profile, particularly its capital position. The rating downgrade also reflects the weak internal controls and processes of the bank, given that the fraudulent transactions were undetected for a number of years.”On February 14, PNB announced to the stock exchanges that it had discovered some fraudulent and unauthorised transactions amounting to Rs 11,390 crore. Based on the bank’s subsequent announcements, PNB’s total exposure to these transactions amounts to Rs 14,400 crore.
 
 In the financial year ended March 2018 (fiscal 2018), after providing for 50% of the fraudulent exposure, the bank reported a common equity tier 1 (CET1) ratio of 5.95% compared to 8.05% in the quarter ended December 2017. The bank will provide for the remaining 50% exposure in the next few quarters.In a statement to the stock exchanges, PNB said that India Ratings also has downgraded the bank. India Ratings said, “The downgrade in the Long-Term Issuer Rating reflects the impairment in PNB’s ability to sustain its current position of systemic importance, with the possibility of a dip in its overall share of systemic assets and liabilities, mirroring the sharp deterioration in its asset quality.”
 
 
