GUWAHATI: A few youths in   have taken a unique measure for people to deal with the menace of floods. The area, which is on the banks of river Beki, one of the major tributaries of Brahmaputra, now has a library to cater to the needs of flood-affected children from nearby villages. Floods displace thousands of people every year in this area, forcing villagers to live in relief camps with deplorable living conditions for many days. 

 There are around 1,000 books in the library so far. 
 
 "We have grown used to the pathetic conditions of the char dwellers, especially their children. Their future is dark, if people like us don't take any step. I think we can make a change. So, I decided to initiate this step of collecting books from my friends and colleagues. Today I feel great to see the dream having turned into a real library with a good number of books," Abdul   Azad, a research scholar, who initiated the step, told TOI from Mazidbhita char. 
 
 The one-room library close to the river Beki is almost ready for formal inauguration. Azad said he took the plunge to finally set up the library after seeing the plight of children in relief camps last year.
 
 "It's almost ready. Once we open it for the children and the students, they will get access to books on different topics. We will also have workers here who will help the students. I'm glad to see the people have responded to our initiative in a grand way. But we have made it clear that there shouldn't be any book on strong political and religious ideologies. Apart from that, we welcome all kind of books," Kalam said.
 
 Kalam, who also runs an NGO called Jhai Foundation, has worked in these areas on flood and rehabilitation before this as well. Jhai Foundation has helped in setting up the library room and supplied the necessary wooden furniture.
 
 Zahedul Islam, who has been appointed to look after the library and Kazi Neal, a poet and activist, who are arranging the books, were also excited at the development. "It's my happiness to see so many books which will be helpful for the poor students," said Kazi. Kalam and his friends also plan to set up temporary classes on floating boats during floods when students cannot go to their schools.
 
 
