TIRUNELVELI: A 17-year-old boy from Sankarankovil in   district hanged himself from a 50-feet-tall bridge on the South Bypass Road in the city as he was upset over his father's addiction to alcohol. The boy, a medical aspirant, left a suicide note in Tamil saying he took the extreme step because of his father's addiction. He expressed the hope that his death would make the chief minister consider shutting down Tasmac outlets across the state. 

 On Wednesday morning, M   was found hanging between the railway over bridge and the track with a school bag on his back. Alerted by local people, the Palayamkottai police retrieved the body and sent it to the   and Hospital for autopsy.
 
 Dinesh completed SSLC in Madurai and did his higher secondary education in a private school in Namakkal this year. After the board exams he was preparing for NEET, which he was supposed to write in a centre in Tirunelveli on May 6.
 
 Police personnel conducted inquiries with the boy's family and revenue officials visited his house. 
 
 
 
 Police said the boy was the eldest of three children of S Madasamy, a labourer working in Kerala, andEsakiammal.
 
 Esakiammal died nine years ago and Madasamy married another woman, with whom he has a five-year-old child. Dinesh’s brother Esakiraj is in Class VIII and his sister Dhanushree is in Class VI. They live with their stepmother at Reddiyapatti village near Kurukalpatti,in Sankarankoviltaluk,Tirunelveli,while Dinesh stayed with his paternal uncle, Sankarakuthalam, in Madurai.
 
 Police sources said that he had told his uncle that he was going to his aunt’s house at Kayathar,in neighbouring Tuticorin district. On Tuesday night, he spoke to his father over phone and pleadedwithhim to giveup drinking. But the conversation ended on a bitter note.
 
 The sources said a smashed mobile phone neatly wrappedin a plastic cover was found in the boy’sbag.They saidhecouldhave broken it after his final conversation withhisfather.
 
 Sankarakuthalam told reporters that his brother was addictedto alcohol andthis resulted in frequent quarrels between the father and son. “Dinesh loved his dad andusedto askhim to giveup his addiction,buthisfather could not.Theboy hadbeen trying hard for five yearstostop him from consuming alcohol,” said Sankarakuthalam amid tears. In a touching suicide note, Dinesh said he was taking the extreme step due todepression over hisfather’s addiction to alcohol. “Father, this is a letter from Dinesh. Don’t drink at least after I die. Since you are drinking, I don’t want you to perform the final rites like shaving your head or cremating me. Only then my soulwill restin peace,”
 
 “Let us see if the chief minister closes down Tasmac liquor shops in the state,” he wrote. He added that his spirit will destroy the liquor shops if the government does not close them down. HesaidhisuncleMani(whom he refers to as Mani appa) should performthefinal ritesfor him.
 
 Along with the suicide note, he had his NEET examination hall ticket and SSLC mark sheet in the bag.
 
 
