KOCHI: A group of around 200 people engaged in operating mechanized trawling boats attacked Vypeen fisheries station in the early hours of Saturday. They also forcibly took away two trawlers earlier confiscated by the station officials earlier in the day.

 Two government officials at the station were injured in the incident.
 
 The station officials confiscated the trawlers for catching   fishes. Few hours later, the group attacked the fisheries station.
 
 The patrolling team comprising assistant director (fisheries) Rajeev S I, two marine enforcement officials and two sea guards, intercepted trawling boats ' ' and ' ' at Munambam mini-harbour at 3am.
 
 The boats were found carrying juvenile fishes illegally. Catching juvenile fish by trawlers is banned in the state.
 
 The confiscated boats were taken to fisheries station by 4am. When the officials reached the office, the group led by owners of the confiscated boats reached the station in six or seven tempo travellers.
 
 When the officials refused to release the boats, they barged into the office and damaged furniture. They even destroyed equipment provided by Indian National Centre for Ocean Information Services (INCOIS), used for disseminating information for fisherfolk, said   S, deputy director of fisheries, central zone.
 
 When the officials attempted to stop them, the attackers manhandled them. Rajeev and sea guard official Shiju suffered minor injuries. They have been undergoing treatment at Ernakulam  .
 
 "We have intensified patrolling following complaints against trawling boats engaging in catching juvenile fishes. We have confiscated nine trawling boats over the past two days and slapped a fine of Rs 16 lakh on them," said Mahesh.
 
 The mob was led by   and Easy, owners of the confiscated trawlers. They created ruckus for around 45 minutes in the office.
 
 "The department will intensify patrolling. In the case of 'Fernando' and 'Abishikthan', the department will issue notice to the owners to surrender their boats. If they fail to do it, we will confiscate it and initiate procedure to cancel its registration," Mahesh said.
 
 Around four to five tonnes of juvenile perch fish were in the boats. After releasing the boats, the owners dumped the fish in the water itself.
 
  police registered case against   owners of and 200 others for rioting, unlawful assembly, obstructing government officials on duty and terrorizing people.
 
 In protest against the attack on fisheries office, traditional fisherfolk took out a march in Vypeen on Saturday. They suspend work on Monday to protest against trawl boat operators.
 
 
