MELBOURNE: The keywords reverberating from the comeback series featuring  ,   and   are ‘technical adjustments’ ‘hopeful’ and ‘playing well’. In that order.

 
 Djokovic, a six-time winner of the  , will debut a remodelled service action at Melbourne Park when he returns to competition after a six-month break on Tuesday. “The service motion is not entirely different,” the Serb, who will play American Donald Young in his first match since Wimbledon, said. “We have made some improvements to the technique which allows me to release the load from the elbow. I've changed my rotation, the elbow is up. I feel like I spend less energy, but I'm more efficient.”
 
 Wawrinka, the 2014 winner, who was out of tennis for six months, a left knee injury that went under the knife, says, getting off the blocks in the opening Grand Slam of the year, is in itself a ‘big victory’.
 
 The ninth seed at Melbourne Park, who opens against Lithuania’s  , said, “It’s the best that I could’ve dreamt when I had the surgery, that I'm going to play the first match here. I have a lot of work to do physically and also tennis-wise to be at my top level.”
 
 Nadal, who pulled out of the season-finale in London with an injured knee, prematurely punctuating his otherwise spectacular 2017 season, will play Victor Estrella Burgos of the Dominican Republic in his opener on Monday.
 
 The top-seeded Spaniard said, “It is the first time in my career that I’m here without playing an official match. Is a new situation for me, but I feel good. I feel that I had a good week and a half of practices. I hope to be ready. I feel myself more or less playing well.” Nadal, 31, said his time away from the court had been longer than anticipated.
 
 “I started little bit later than what I expected. That's why I was not able to start the year playing in Abu Dhabi and Brisbane. We decided to start later because we needed some more practice, start slow, to be fresher mentally and physically.”
 
 Wawrinka, who pulled out of the Tie Break Tens earlier in the week, said he was skeptical about starting at the Australian Open a week ago. “It's been tough, really tough to be able to play again,” Wawrinka said, “I'm feeling better now, I'm slowly getting there. It was last-minute choice to come here for a week to practice without knowing if I would be able to play or not. But I think it was the right choice.”
 
 The 30-year-old Djokovic, whose practice session on Saturday was watched keenly by coaches Andre Agassi and Radek Stepanek, said he was pleased with his new service motion which appeared to be a little locked-in. “So far it's been working really well. I only had the (exhibition) match where I could try it out. I had a lot of practice sets. I'm happy with the new motion. The small tweaks and changes have made a lot of difference mentally.”
 
 Nadal, who wanted a taste of competition before the chair umpire called love-all, gave himself the experience setting up a practice match with Dominic Thiem. He asked for ball kids, scoreboard and an umpire. “I have a good relationship with Dominic, I spoke to him about that. He was very happy to make that happen. It was a good practice, good feelings for both of us,” he said.
 
 Wawrinka, who lost in the semifinals last year, wondered about practice matches. “You don't get the stress of a match, of a real match,” the Swiss said. “Today I played aset, that's where I test myself. That's where Idecide if I'm ready, if I have a chance to win matches or not. I don't need to play a practice match with umpire, judge line.”
 
 
