BENGALURU: Four cab drivers, who were allegedly having a party right on  ,   in the process, got into a brawl with a couple of policemen who turned up in a   and asked them to clear off. The drama took a comical turn when one of the   allegedly drove off with the key to the Hoysala vehicle, sending Rajarajeshwarinagar police into a tizzy.

 Head constable R Siddachari and Mohan Kumar, the two cops in the patrolling vehicle, had to summon the station for help. They managed to nab — Naveen K and Bharath N — two of the offenders, but the other two — identified as Sunil B and Puneeth — managed to get away. All four are in their mid-twenties.
 
 Puneeth allegedly grabbed the key of the Hoysala vehicle and drove off in his cab. Sunil too managed to escape, but since he was known to some officers at the station he was tracked down and arrested two hours later. Police also succeeded in recovering the Hoysala key which Puneeth, now the main accused in the case, had handed over to Sunil.
 
 Naveen, Bharath and Sunil were arrested based on a complaint filed by Siddachari, and have been remanded in judicial custody. In his complaint, Siddachari says he and Mohan Kumar, who was driving the Hoysala, arrived on Uttarahalli Main Road around 5.15pm. They found the four cab drivers had haphazardly parked their cars in front of Domino’s Pizza, hindering traffic.
 
 Three of them were sitting on the bonnet of a vehicle and consuming alcohol. Siddachari asked them clear off, but the four cabbies allegedly began abusing the policemen for busting their party. Things got out of hand when one of them allegedly slapped Siddachari. Mohan came rushing to his senior’s help and a brawl ensued. The cops called for back-up and two more constables, identified as Ashok and Amar, arrived at the spot.
 
 The four cops with the help of the public nabbed Naveen and Bharath and took them in for questioning. Based on information supplied by the two, police arrested Sunil two hours later. Sunil also handed over the Hoysala vehicle key.
 
 “Some of our officers at the station knew Sunil and they warned to collect the key from Puneeth and handed it to us,” an officer said. “Puneeth took the key fearing he would be chased.”
 
 The four have been booked under IPC sections 341 (punishment for wrongful restraint), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of the common intention). 
 
 
