MUMBAI: Around 1.65 lakh   aspirants are all set to appear for the first-ever online   (Advanced) on Sunday. Over 28,000 are giving the test from IIT-Bombay zone that includes the western region—the thirdhighest in numbers among other zones. The highest number of aspirants are from IITMadras and IIT-Delhi zones.

 
 The 1.65 lakh students were shortlisted from JEE (Main). Though 2.3 lakh students qualified to take JEE (Advanced), around 30% of the eligible candidates dropped out of the race for the coveted IIT seat. While IITs have been taking several measures to get more foreign students on the campus, only 36 students have sought to appear for the test.
 
 
  
 
 While IITs are taking all measures to ensure there are no technical glitches in the online test, students and parents too are hoping for a smooth conduct of the test. “The IITs even allowed mock tests to be taken at   (KV). Students were allowed to take the test at any KVs close to their place,” said an IIT official. Last year, 11 bonus marks had been given to students for ‘ambiguous’ questions in the paper. Students who attempted to answer these were unhappy with the IITs’ decision. This year students are hoping to have an error-free and glitch-free paper, said a teacher from a coaching institute.
 
 This year, IIT-Kanpur, which is the organising IIT this year, has issued a list of instructions to candidates. The students have been asked to reach the exam centres at 7.30 and after biometric verification of candidates, they will be sent to their designated computers. The computer screen will show the name, photo and the JEE (Advanced) roll number of students. They have been asked to do rough work on a scribble pad that will be given at the centre. Only a simple analog watch will be allowed at the centre.
 
  from a coaching institute said they expect the paper to be tougher this year as last year it was easier. “JEE (Main) paper was tough, so JEE (Advanced) could be tough too... If papers are tougher, cut-offs will drop,” he said.
 
