AHMEDABAD: In a major setback to the   (CBI) and the special investigation team appointed by the   in the  , a   on Wednesday discharged  ,  , from the case.

 In a lengthy order, CBI judge J K Pandya granted discharge to Pandey on three grounds: there is no prima facie case against him, the statements given by witnesses before different agencies appear contradictory, and the CBI had not obtained the mandatory sanction to criminally prosecute the top cop according to the provisions of Section 197 of the Code of Criminal Procedure.
 
 Pandey, a 1982-batch IPS officer, welcomed the verdict and said that it was a great relief for the Gujarat Police. He said a ‘divine force’ helped him get discharged from the case which has troubled him and his family for years.
 
 
 
 
 I will soon undertake a religious tour to Devas Dargah near Lucknow, Ajmer, and some temples to fulfill the vow I had taken,” discharged former in-charge DGP of Gujarat, P P Pandey told TOI.
 
 Pandey was one of seven accused cops — who also include top cops D G Vanzara, G L Singhal, and N K Amin — implicated in the case on charges of criminal conspiracy, murder, abduction, and illegal detention of four persons including the 19-year-old Mumbra girl, Ishrat. The three others were Javed Shaikh alias Pranesh Pillai, Amjad Ali Rana, and Zeeshan Johar. They were all killed in an encounter by the city crime branch officials on June 15, 2004, on the outskirts of Ahmedabad city. After the encounter, police said the four were Lashkar-e-Taiba operatives who were on a mission to kill Narendra Modi, the Gujarat chief minister at the time. Pandey was head of the city crime branch then and claimed to have received intelligence inputs about the arrival of these alleged terrorists.
 
 Pandey is the first accused in the case to have secured a discharge. In another case, the 2005 Sohrabuddin Sheikh encounter, eight IPS officers and two politicians — BJP national president Amit Shah and Rajasthan home minister Gulabchand Kataria — were discharged by a Mumbai CBI court. As for Pandey’s case, he argued during the proceedings that there was discrepancy in evidence against him. He cited various statements of cops and highlighted contradictions. He pointed out how witnesses gave different and contradictory statements before different probe agencies.
 
