MUMBAI: The Bombay high court has ordered the auction of a builder’s flat at Matunga as well as his 58-acre property near Mahabaleshwar to complete a   in Dadar he began eight years ago and is still lying unfinished. 

 The delay in completion has forced residents of the building to live in temporary homes for nearly a decade. 
 
 According to the complaint filed by one of the building’s tenants, Sunil Soi, developer Shirish Dixit offered to redo their three-storey building in 2008. Dixit told them that he had purchased the building, Sahnaz, at Dadar (East) from its original landlord for redevelopment. There were 21 tenants in the building then. Dixit entered into an agreement with all and promised to complete the redevelopment work in 34 months.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 In 2009, the tenants shifted to an alternate accommodation, after which Dixit demolished the structure. 
 
 For a while, Dixit paid rent to the tenants to cover their costs for alternate accommodation, but subsequently stopped. In 2015, the tenants learnt that Dixit had mortgaged the land to a money lender and availed of a Rs 10.4 crore loan. The tenants then approached the court and filed a case against Dixit in April 2016 with the economic offences wing (EOW).
 
 The high court, in its recent order, said Dixit never intended to complete the redevelopment work but was only interested in cheating innocent tenants. The court appointed a commissioner and instructed Dixit to hand over the original documents of his   (East) and land near Mahabaleshwar to him. The court asked the commissioner to auction the properties. Dixit was present in court during the recent hearing and told the court that he had no objection to the auctioning of his property and the use of the money to complete the redevelopment project.
 
 The court order stated: “The court is observing such dishonest conduct in one out of every ten matters before it. Thus, hundreds of innocent members of the public who put in their life savings in the hope of being owners of their flat have been deprived not only of their ownership but also their life savings by such dishonest conduct of the developers.”
 
 The police’s apathetic approach in forwarding the case from one department to another also came in for censure. The court marked the order to the city police commissioner, to apprise him of the manner in which senior officers at Matunga police station had handled the case, which was transferred to them by the joint commissioner of police (EOW). 
 
 The court also expressed displeasure with the EOW for transferring the case to Matunga police. It said the police officer was unable to explain why the matter was transferred to the local police by EOW when the sum involved was more than Rs 3 crore. Generally, the EOW investigates economic offences exceeding Rs 3 crore.
 
 
