NEW DELHI: On Friday, which marked two years of the infamous February 9 incident at  , students from different political formations joined hands in a strike against the decision to make class attendance compulsory. The students were agitated over the recent circular directing the withholding of fellowships and scholarships of students who do not log the minimum required attendance. 

 The February 8 circular, released by the committee set up to look into the issue of compulsory attendance, not only made it mandatory for fellowship and scholarship holders to attain minimum attendance, but also stated that students would be eligible to sit for semester examinations only on meeting the prescribed attendance. Since December last year, JNU has been up in opposition against the decision of the university ordaining compulsory attendance for undergraduate, postgraduate and research students, called the step "anti-student".
 
 Friday's strike called by the JNU Student's Union was supported by RSS-affiliated  , Congress-backed NSUI, Ambedkarite BAPSA and other leftist outfits on the campus. Students assembled at the various schools and raised slogans against "anti-JNU culture" measure.
 
 Defining the strike as a success,   vice-president Simone Zoya Khan said "almost no class took place and students in a mark of solidarity did not sign the attendance registers". She declared that the students "will continue to struggle until this arbitrary ruling is roll backed."
 
 ABVP members, however, added JNUSU had rejected their call for a united 'Joint Struggle Committee'. "We wanted all chairpersons to resign and a collective be formed to pressure the administration against compulsory attendance," said ABVP member Lalit Pandey. AISA said this proposal had been turned down because "there cannot be two parallel organisations".
 
 Professor Atul Johri did not appreciate the students' stance. "I believe that attendance should be compulsory for undergraduate and postgraduate courses," he said.
 
 Though peaceful overall, the strike briefly turned chaotic when a teacher was accused of pushing and "manhandling" a student when entering his class at the   III. 
 
 "We didn't stop the professor, only told him about the strike. But he became violent and shoved me," the student alleged. 
 
 She filed a police complaint about the matter, but no FIR was registered.
 
 
