THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The spiralling interest in indigenous bovine breeds in North Indian states owing to Union government’s persistent thrust on conservation and promotion of native cow breeds is opening up new possibilities for the Kerala livestock development board (KLDB). The board is planning to sell semen of bovine breeds like Gir, Rathi and Red Sindhi, which were till now hardly popular in Kerala.

 The board has purchased these bulls as part of semen production which could be sold to North Indian states, which have taken a liking for indigenous bovine breeds over foreign ones. At present the board mainly focuses on sale of semen of pure Jersey and Holstein Friesian (HF) species to other states. “We are planning to broaden the sale of semen apart from that of foreign species. We have purchased bulls of various species for semen production,” said KLDB managing director Jose James.
 
 Eight Gir bulls, four Rathi bulls and two Red Sindhi bulls have been purchased by the board at a cost of Rs 2-3 lakh each and brought to the farm at Dhoni. The board had purchased pedigree males through bull distribution committee and have been transported to Dhoni after an elaborate disease screening procedure.
 
 KLDB sets a target of 8 lakh doses of semen every year. While HF semen is sold at Rs 18 per dose, the board expects sale of semen of native bovine breeds at a rate of Rs 15 per dose. “ This is part of identifying new opportunities and making use of them. Semen production and sale is one of the key areas of focus for the board and with the Centre pushing for indigenous bovine breeds, we felt that we should make use of the opportunity,” said Anil X, secretary, animal husbandry and dairying.
 
 The Union government has launched Rashtriya Gokul Mission and National Dairy Plan-I, a World Bank-assisted project for the promotion, development and conservation of indigenous bovine breeds, including breeds of Gir and Sahiwal.
 
 Gir, Sahiwal, Rathi and Red Sindhi have been classified as dairy purpose breed and as having potential for higher quantity of milk production. 
 
 The officials also pointed out that new breeds from north India with their increased resistance to diseases and adaptability to climate change could trigger a change in the nature of milk production in the state. Thirty-eight Gir cows have already been brought to Perumatty as part of RKVY ( ) and a total of 100 Gir cows will be reared in Palakkad. The project initiated by   K   is being assisted by KLDB.
 
 
