RAJKOT: Addiction to snuff has destroyed the life of a 28-year-old married woman and a mother of two children from Rajkot. Her frequent quarrel with husband over the addiction brought her close to one of his close friends, who allegedly raped her, taking advantage of the situation. Now, the woman is unsure about the father of her second child, which is about two-month-old.

 The woman on Friday lodged a rape and blackmailing complaint against her husband’s friend with the   in the city. Based on her complaint, police have arrested her husband’s friend on Friday evening and has initiated process to conduct DNA test of the woman’s newborn to ascertain who the father is.
 
  and Ravi (both names changed) were leading a normal life with their five-year-old son. However, Shilpa got addicted to snuff, which Ravi did not like. They had frequent quarrels over the issue. Last year, the fight got out of control and Ravi’s close friend Mukesh (name changed) had to intervene. This was the triggering point and Shilpa used to call Mukesh whenever she had a fight with Ravi. Shilpa and Mukesh came closer over the next few months.
 
 According to Shilpa’s complaint, one day Mukesh allegedly raped her and also took her nude pictures on his mobile phone. He allegedly blackmailed her into having physical relations by threatening to show her nude pictures to her husband and uploading it on the internet. Shilpa was caught in a fix as she could not tell anything to her husband, who was very close to Mukesh and it was known in their social circle. Later, she realised she was pregnant, but was not sure who the father of her child was. 
 
 About two months ago, Shilpa gave birth to a boy and went into depression. When her husband persistently questioned her about her condition, Shilpa narrated how Mukesh had allegedly raped her and used to blackmail her. She also told Ravi that she was not sure who the father of the newborn child was. With Ravi’s help Shilpa lodged an FIR with the Mahila police station on Friday and got  
 
 
