NEW DELHI: The former vice president of Maldives   on Sunday urged India to lead international efforts to restore democracy in his country, reported news agency ANI.

 
 "In such circumstances, my opinion is that the international community must come to help. I believe India must lead international efforts to restore democracy in the Maldives using all available legal mechanisms within the international law," ANI quoted Ahmed as saying.
 
 He added that all internal Maldivian efforts to restore normalcy had failed.
 
 "People of Maldives tried all available measures to restore democracy. Judiciary has given its judgment, Parliament has tried, constitutional institutions have tried and they all are unable to restore rule of law and democracy in the Maldives," he said.
 
 India had on Thursday expressed its disapproval of the extension of emergency in Maldives by 30 days, saying it did not see a "valid reason" for it.
 
 "We do not see any valid reason for doing so. We, of course, continue to watch the situation and would continue to urge the government of Maldives to release political prisoners, release the chief justice, implement the Supreme Court order and restore the normal functions of the institutions of democracy," ministry of external affairs (MEA) spokesperson Raveesh Kumar had said.
 
 The remarks, however, did not go down well with Maldives, which hit out at India.
 
 "Government of Maldives takes note of public statements issued by Government of India that ignore the facts and ground realities with regard to the ongoing political developments in the Maldives," said Minister of Foreign Affairs Mohamed Asim in a statement.
 
 Asim went so far as to dub the MEA's statement "a clear distortion of facts" and asserted that India's concerns regarding the legality of the move to extend emergency were unfounded.
 
 Maldives was plunged into crisis when President   declared a 15-day emergency on February 5 and ordered the arrests of two Supreme Court judges on charges of corruption. Subsequently, the three remaining judges annulled the February 1 order of the   which had overturned the convictions of political prisoners, including that of its exiled former president Mohamed Nasheed, and reinstated 12 MPs ousted for switching allegiance to the opposition.
 
 The emergency in the island nation was then extended by 30 days to March 22, in the presence of only 38 MPs, despite the requirement that 43 MPs be present during voting.
 
 
 
