Tirunelveli: More than 300 life convicts languishing at the Palayamkottai Central Prison over a decade are now brimming with hope after Chief Minister Edappadi K Palanisami promised efforts for the release of those who completed 10 years in jail. 

 The minister made the key announcement on Wednesday as part of the MGR centenary celebrations, and if things go to the script, the   are likely to walk back to freedom on or before January 17, the birthday of MGR.
 
 The news came as a New Year gift to about 300 life convicts who have been doing time for a decade and some even 18 years in the Palayamkottai Prison. A majority of the 700 convicts presently put up in Palayamkottai prison hail from Tirunelveli, Tuticorin and Kanyakumari districts, around 600 of which were sentenced for life.
 
 Those frequenting the Freedom Bazaar operated by the inmates on the jail premises are greeting the prisoners with the good news. For many, who spent nearly a quarter of their lifetime there, the announcement could not have come at a better time.
 
 A lot of them have learnt newer skills while some have learned higher education, but nothing compares to the hardest lesson they have learnt from prison life. “Above all, we have learnt what patience is,” said a prisoner at the Freedom Bazaar who served 17 years in the jail. Convicted for murder, the man, who is now 40, said that he would now ignore even if someone beat him up. “I don’t want to retaliate and waste more years in jail. This has taught me a lot,” he added.
 
 Relatives of the inmates said that convicts found rays of hopes of getting out of their confinements last November when the authorities began counting prisoners who completed 10 years with good conduct. Now that it has been confirmed they would be out soon, they want to lead a simple, normal life thereafter. The glad news apart, they said that they would be sorely missing their fellow inmates once out of jail.
 
 “We are closer than family. They comforted me when I was depressed and helped me recover. Some will be released now but there are many others who have completed seven or eight years and will be in the jail. We hope that they will be released soon,” he added.
 
 A prison official told TOI that they have not got a government order on the release till date but have prepared a list of more than 320 inmates who have completed 10 years, as instructed by the department authorities. The official was hopeful that at least 300 of them will be released, when the announcement came
 
 However, but these inmates have concern to address. Key among them is acceptance in society, getting a job and having a family. Fearing acceptance, most of them are planning to go to other cities or states to start life afresh. A relative of these inmates have already started looking for a job for them. A woman from Tuticorin, who now lives in Pune, said that she has got a job for her brother at Pune.
 
 (Input for Graphics)
 
 Convicts at the Palayamkottai Central Prison
 
 Type of Convicts
 
 No of Convicts
 
 Total Convicts
 
 700
 
 Life Convicts
 
 600
 
 Expecting Release
 
 300+
 
 
