The state government has decided to shut down over 1,300 schools that have less than 10 students. Teachers and children will be shifted to nearby institutions as part of an attempt to merge infrastructure. However, what hasn’t been taken into account is that in some of the remote and poor parts of Maharashtra, travelling to a new school means encountering snakes, missing bridges and flooded roads

 Pune: One of the tiniest schools in the state will be celebrating what could be its last Republic Day on Friday. 
 
 The zilla parishad school in Shirkewadi   is one of 1,300 such institutions in the state that have been marked for closure by the state’s education department due to lack of adequate strength — schools with less than 10 students. The Shirkewadi school has just eight students. 
 
 The village is located a few kilometres from the picturesque Panshet dam, nearly 50 km from the city. It is home to 300 residents, mostly from the scheduled tribes. If the school is shut, the children stand to lose the most.
 
 “We take a roll call every morning and on most days there are children who haven’t turned up to school,” says Vilas Shinde, a teacher who started working here only last year. “It’s the parents who are stopping their children from coming to school. Almost all of them are landless workers. The children are made to work in the fields or are sent fishing. Every additional working hand means more food on the table.”
 
 The other teacher,  , who joined the school nine years ago, said young girls in the village were particularly prone to losing out on an education. “Nine years ago, there were 30 children studying at this school. Many girls ended up studying until Class IV mainly because we were convincing parents to send their children to school. Once, after a summer break, when we found that a girl had not returned to school, we went to her house to find out what had happened. The parents said she had grown ‘too old’ for school. Later, I heard that the girl had been married off,” says Kedar.
 
 The state government plans to consolidate these tiny schools. Education minister   says the immediate closure of the 1,300 schools will “give students a better social setting to learn”. According to him, schools with less than 10 students are extremely isolated. 
 
 But for the Shirkewadi children, the next nearest school is about 1.5 km away. They will have to take a mud road to reach the building and the trek is especially dangerous during the rains. 
 
 “There are snakes along this route. During the monsoon, small bridges along the path get submerged. Children around 10 years old find this road difficult to walk on. How will we send the younger ones to school?” asks Jeeja Rairikar. She has a son in Class IV and a daughter in Class II. 
 
 The school facing the axe is not what one would call a failed attempt at grassroots education. Incredibly, it had been declared “pragat” (advanced) by the government, both for its infrastructure and quality of education. The teachers have been using constructivism and ability-based learning methods to teach.
 
 Apparam Kisan (72), whose grandchildren study in the school, says the school was once filled with children. “But there were many more people in the village. Young couples started migrating to cities for better opportunities and the population here started dwindling. Today, we don’t have many families left. That’s the reason why we have only eight children studying in the school,” he says. 
 
 However, he insists the government keep the tiny school running. “So what if it has only eight students? Don’t their lives matter? The school should be kept open even if the student strength comes down to just one.”
 
 When a TOI team visited Shirkewadi, the school was busy preparing to hoist the Tricolour. The two teachers, who live in Pune, are continuing with their duties despite the uncertainty that lies ahead. And as for the six children who turned up for parade practice, they were giving the event their best. Between the six, the school organized a group song, a dance and some speeches. There are no signs of giving up. 
 
 
