Nagpur: In an alleged nexus between the Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) and its contractors, the civic body, which has been constructing cement concrete roads since 2011, has neither paid royalty of minerals nor deposited the receipts of royalty with the district administration, hinting towards major evasion of royalty and “illegal” excavation of sand mining going on unabated in the district.  Minerals — sand and concrete — are one of the major components of cement road construction. As per the state government’s norms, the NMC is supposed to recover royalty for minerals before release of payments to contractors. Then the civic body has to pay the royalty amount to the district administration. Accordingly, the NMC incorporate these conditions in the agreements with all contractors involved in executing the cement road works. The NMC started cement road project phase-I worth Rs123 crore in June 2011. The works on several internal roads have already been completed while some of them are still under construction, which cost over Rs50 crore. The cement road project phase-II worth Rs324 crore commenced in March 2016, taking the total cost of concretization work to around Rs500 crore. Few days ago, a team of police and the revenue departments seized a huge quantum of sand stored by one of the cement road works’ contractors, Abhi Engineering Corporation, on the Kamptee Road. A district administration official said the major quantum of the stored stand was excavated in an unauthorized manner. “Directives have been given to Kamptee tehsildar to initiate action against the firm and persons involved,” he said. According to an information collected through RTI by activist Suraj Lolge from NMC, the civic body has no records of any documents of royalty submitted by Abhi Engineering Corporation. Ajju Vijayvargiya of Abhi Engineering said there is no evasion of royalty and issue of sand excavation in an unauthorized manner does not arise. “Our work is the best in the project. We have been paying the royalty promptly with the NMC. I will have to check what exactly the information is given under RTI Act by the NMC,” he said. Vijayvargiya also denied any problems with the sand stored by his firm on the Kamptee Road. The district administration official further said the NMC has not deposited a single penny of royalty in these seven years. “We received complaints from activists and issued letters to the NMC time and again asking it to deposit the royalty and the receipts but got no response. Even, collector Sachin Kurve consulted the NMC and asked to ensure compliance of the norms,” he said. As per data available from the NMC, payments of over Rs180 crore have been released to contractors. Lolge said the NMC in nexus with few contractors has been encouraging utilization of sand and metal excavated in an unauthorized manner and also evading royalty. “The NMC did not deduct royalty amount from contractors’ bills violating the norms. The district administration banned the operation of all sand ghats last year and continued with it this year also. But sand mining is still continue. The NMC officials are delaying information under RTI to hide all these violations. Detailed inquiry should be done followed by action against the officials and the contractors. I have lodged a complaint with Kurve also who assured of necessary action,” Lolge said. Municipal commissioner Ashwin Mudgal said directives have been given to all contractors and their associations to get the royalty clearance certificate from the district administration. “I think some contractors have already obtained the certificate. We will take action if contractors fail to comply with the directives,” he said.