CHENNAI: The drowning of a five-year-old boy in a septic tank on a school campus in the city has come as a grim reminder for schools that drawing up safety guidelines or pinning them on notice boards is not enough. 

 Officials say the government has been sending periodic circulars but admit there is scarce monitoring of whether schools maintain safety standards and carry out awareness programmes in good earnest. Nobody needs a tragedy to remind oneself of the need for campus safety, they say.
 
 Following the   fire tragedy which claimed more than 90 lives of students, a vast set of recommendations were produced. A report put out by the Justice K Sampath Commission spelled out guidelines on various aspects including roofing, transportation and bus safety measures. Last year, in the aftermath of the floods and the Vardah cyclone, the education department sent out repeated notices to schools regarding safety measures with respect to water bodies (drainage, open sumps) and electrical switchboards. 
 
 But many circulars are received and forgotten, say academicians. "I do not know whether it is ignorance or arrogance of the managements who only sit up when a life is lost. Do we need more incidents to remind us to be careful?" said Malathi of  . 
 
 She remarked that most schools are not proactive in checking where its buses are parked, whether a swimming pool needs fencing, whether   cameras are required in isolated corridors in the school, or whether any vehicle needs replacing. "Schools should take it up as a campaign, whether individually or collectively, to ensure that the basic precautions are taken to prevent risks," she said. 
 
 When it comes to receiving an   and ensuring compliance, there is no action without the fear factor. "Henceforth, it is not enough to spell out instructions, schools have to be told of the repercussions of lax implementation," she said. 
 
 Some suggested that every year there should be an orientation session and a check-list of safety measures to be periodically ticked every month or term. School managements have to educate teaching and non-teaching staff regularly on safety, said R Visalakshi, president of the  .
 
 She said that while yearly meetings are held to discuss academics, teachers don't sit down for discussions on safety measures nor does the government train teachers on this aspect. "Chief education officers too interact with principals, but perhaps they should also extend this to teachers through consultative sessions on raising awareness of safety measures," she added.
 
