SURAT: Billionaire diamond baron   was involved in round-tripping of diamonds, an unscrupulous practice of exporting and importing the same diamond consignment several times, which was rampant till 2011 among the diamond firms to borrow working capital from banks.

 In 2015, Modi’s jewellery designing unit in   was raided by the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) and the agency had slapped a penalty of Rs 37 crore.   deposited Rs 48 crore as duty demand, penalty and interest. He also sent two letters on July 3 and July 23, 2015, to the commissioner of central excise in Surat to close the case.
 
  
  
 
 Modi was accused of diverting the imported diamonds to the domestic market, while cheaper low-value diamonds were being used to make jewellery for export to Hong Kong and United Arab E. 
 
 Round tripping of diamonds first caught the attention of the central government in 2010-11 when the Gems and   (GJEPC) data showed an unprecedented 60% increase in polished diamond at $20 billion. This raised eyebrows as India, mainly Surat, is the world’s largest hub of cut and polished diamonds.
 
 Then finance minister   imposed two per cent import duty on polished diamonds in 2012 to stamp out round tripping in the industry.
 
 Round tripping became rampant since 2007 when the central government scrapped the three per cent import duty and allowed free imports of cut and polished diamonds. Some traders took this as an opportunity to carry out ‘round tripping’ and cheat the banks. 
 
 Despite the global economic meltdown in 2008, the Indian diamond industry grew healthily which many believe was due to round tripping of diamonds. The working capital loans received from national, foreign and private banks by using this practice were mostly diverted into real estate. Huge amount from these advances were also used in speculative buying of rough diamonds since 2010.
 
 In 2013, the income tax department had recovered Rs 350 crore worth of unaccounted income from all the major real estate developer groups operating in areas like Vesu, Adajan, Pal, Jehangirpura, Puna, Katargam, Piplod and Varachha and some diamond firms too. 
 
 Investigation revealed that the diamond firms and people associated with the business had pumped in their money to finance the realty projects. The I-T sleuths had seized documents pertaining to the dealings by the diamond companies into the real estate group’s residential and commercial projects in Vesu, Pal, Palanpur. Some years ago, there were cases of some unscrupulous businessmen who had entered the diamond business, only to use the industry as a conduit for this type of financing and later disappear.
 
 
