CBSE   in Kollam and Thiruvananthapuram districts lost the maximum number of working days, 25 and 22 respectively, to hartals during the 2017-18 academic year.

 According to the CBSE regional office here, CBSE schools in Kottayam were the least affected by hartals in the 2017-18 academic year. The data attains significance in the wake of   order on April 16, granting permission to a limited number of CBSE affiliated schools to conduct vacation classes to compensate the academic days they lost.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 Schools in only two districts, Thiruvananthapuram and Kollam, would be eligible for seeking permission from the CBSE regional office for permission to conduct vacation classes up to 20 days, the maximum ceiling set by the court. A total of 74 schools had approached the court with the plea for quashing the state government order against vacation classes.
 
 However, this doesn’t mean that districts that encountered the maximum number of hartals had lost the most number of working days during the period. For example, schools in Kottayam were the least affected by hartals and strike in 2017-18 academic year. The district lost only three days on that account. The distinction of the district with highest number of working days went to Palakkad. Despite 11 hartals and strikes, the schools in the district had lost only 22 working days.
 
 Schools in Palakkad enjoyed 198 working days during the previous academic year. Kottayam and Idukki were just behind with 195 and 192 working days. While schools in Ernakulam had to be closed for 17 days. Kozhikode lost only 8 days.
 
 As per the Right to Education Act, schools should have 220 working days in an academic year. Data shows that schools in 11 out of the 14 districts had lost 30 or more working days in 2017-18 alone, due to strikes, rains and other hostile climatic conditions.
 
 “The court order clearly states that schools can approach the CBSE regional office with request for permission to conduct classes during vacation time. This, however, would be purely based on the average number of days they had lost during the last academic year, owing to hartals and similar strikes. The concession is applicable only to those schools that approached the court. The maximum number of days the schools can conduct vocation classes is 20. Also, the schools are supposed to ensure other facilities, as stipulated by the court, to conduct vacation classes,” said  , regional officer, CBSE.
 
 Director of public instructions (DPI) had on March 31 issued an order, banning conducting of classes in schools during vacation based on a directive by  . As many as 74 schools had approached the HC against the DPI order.
 
 According to sources, none of the school managements have yet approached the CBSE regional office for permission to conduct vacation classes.
 
