AMBALA: Two fire incidents were reported in   district on the intervening night of Friday and Saturday. In the first incident, a shoe showroom at   in Ambala caught fire. In the second incident, a   temple caught fire at 1am on Saturday. In this case, the fire was extinguished in less than one hour. Three fire tenders were rushed to Vijay Rattan Chowk at around 3am on Saturday. 

 In view of the scale of the fire, two additional fire tenders were sent. The reason behind the fire in both cases could not be ascertained. Five fire tenders took around five hours to extinguish the fire at Vijay Rattan Chowk in Ambala cantonment.
 
 This is the fourth such fire incident reported in Ambala district in the last two weeks. Officials said one such fire incident is being reported every week for the last two months.
 
 There are two fire stations in Ambala district, one in the city and the other in the cantonment area. There is a shortage of staff at both these stations. One fire van requires five firefighters. But the department has enough vans and equipment to extinguish the fire. Recently, Ambala fire authorities demanded a new building with advanced facilities, saying that the present building does not meet the requirements of parking space for fire tenders.
 
 Rajinder Singh Dhayia, fire officer, Ambala said, "We have sufficient number of fire fighters. We have 32 fire-fighters at a fire station in the Ambala cantonment area, whereas in the city fire station, we have 28 fire-fighters. However, we need some more as per the sanctioned posts. There are 11 fire vans in our district, including the one purchased recently. At both fire stations, we have our separate buildings allotted by the corporation. I have recently written to the MC, demanding a new building at some other place as we also want to increase the capacity of water to 3 lakh litres. Fire-incidents have been increasing in the city for some time. An average of one incident is being reported in a week."
 
 Traffic snarls are compounding problems for firemen. "We are facing problems due to congested roads and traffic chaos. In the day time, it becomes very difficult to reach the spot of fire, especially in the market. Extension wires also hang low in the city area and our vans face difficulty in reaching the spot. Another problem is encroachment in areas where roads are already congested," a fire officer said.
 
 
