MUMBAI: The city’s biggest beach clean-up drive, at  , took the battle to the sea on Saturday, with four divers going nine metres deep, around 200m from the coast and returning with plastic bottles and other debris floating in the dark. The divers reported “poor visibility” at that depth due to “collection of silt and floating plastic”. 

 The divers, trained by the forest department to go 30m under water as part of a UN project, will enter the sea again on Sunday. “We could not see each other one foot away as the visibility was very poor,” said Bhushan Juwatkar, 31. According to a recent study, fishermen of Mumbai have been netting more debris than fish. 
 
 On Sunday, the Versova beach clean campaign will be joined by Erik Solheim, head of the UN Environment programme, as part of the World Environment Day exercise. On Saturday,  , vice-captain of India’s cricket ODI team (pic), donned different gloves and batted, for a clean environment by paying an unannounced visit and joining the Versova beach clean-up. 
 
 “Heart breaking”, were his first words as he and wife Ritika walked onto the beach around 4 pm. “Honestly, I have no words,” he added. The beach, covered by a layer of plastic, had thrown him a googly. “It’s different gloves this time,” he said as he joined advocate Afroz Shah, a Versova resident who had started the beach clean initiative, two and a half years ago, on seeing the neglected beach strip stacked with plastic filth. 
 
 Sharma quickly attracted a crowd of children and youth from the slums lining the beach. They whipped out cell phones to shoot him, and he exhorted them to snap on gloves and join him. Many did. He went about cleaning and helped pick up two tractor loads, roughly eight tons. He and Ritika were there for an hour. 
 
 Later he saw videos of Shah at cleanup in Sochi, Russia and told him, “This is just the start. More will join.” Actress Pooja. Bhatt, who was present, said, “We can’t forget that we don’t inherit the earth from our ancestors, we borrow it from our children.”
 
 Speaking to TOI, the cricketer, who had gone all pensive then said, “Seeing it in video or photos is one thing, but when you actually see it is a real eye opener.” 
 
 “I think it is just 10% , what we saw,” he said and in what could be great news for Borivli residents said, “I grew up in Borivli. I want to do something there.” Ritika who shared his appreciation at the Versova movement added, “Often people may want to help but don’t know how without a leader.” Shah,likened to being the captain of the Versova beach volunteers team, said, “We cannot wait or expect only the government to clean after us. We need to pitch in and change our mindset.”
 
 Sharma’s parting shot was, “ Our responsibility is to make sure that our environment is clean. No one needs to be told. Think about the next generation. we need to make sure it’s good for them.”
 
 Speaking about the divers, additional principal chief conservator of Forests N   told TOI that the divers were eager to participate in the clean-up campaign ever since they heard about it. Besides, Bhushan Juwatkar, the other divers who joined the campaign are Javister Braganza (18), Prashant Todankar (31), and Lovet Fernandes.
 
 “We had trained 20 youths as scuba divers as part of a UN project at Sindhudurg implemented by the state mangrove cell and co partnered by the Maharashtra Tourism Development Corporation (MTDC). As part of the training they had to remove ghost nets left behind by fishermen. They had removed 2 lakh sq m of ghost nets which has saved marine life. Now they are quite committed to the cause of environmental safety,” Vasudevan said. Most of them are self employed as diving guides and have formed an association to remove abandoned fishing nets. “Abandoned nets are a serious problem along the coasts,” said Vasudevan. “In Sindhudurg, for over a year when the training was given in a subsidised manner, the incidence of abandoning fishing nets has, however, reduced.” 
 
 
