As   celebrates its 1000 episodes,   merged into it to ring in the celebration. The episode begins with Preeta remembering her times with   and cries thinking of the trouble. Karan talks to his jail mates about his selection for T20. Preeta decides that Karan will definitely play for the country. She walks into the police station and tells the inspector that Karan is not the culprit, she is. The inspector refuses to believe her. She says that she did it only because she needed to pay her loans for Kumkum   hall.

 The inspector who knows that Preeta is innocent tries to make her understand that she would get herself into trouble but then Preeta instigates him by saying that he is looking for publicity by arresting a famous cricketer. The inspector loses his calm and arrests Preeta. He releases Karan. Karan is shocked to see Preeta getting arrested. Abhi is seen being upset as the family discusses his concert.   walks in and Abhi asks her not to sit with his family for dinner. He also forbids her from attending his concert. Pragya asks Purab and Disha to take care of Abhi for the concert as she will not be there. Purab promises her.
 
 Srishti lashes out at   for letting Preeta go to jail. She says that Sarla believed everybody but not her daughter. Srishti is inconsolable. Rakhi runs to the door to get Karan. The family celebrates Karan’s return as Sherlyn says that she knew Rishabh’s lawyer will save him. Karan corrects her and says that police have got the real culprit. He says that it is Preeta.   and family get shocked. Kareena says that Preeta was faking throughout. Karan then tells the family how Preeta forced the police to arrest her. Sherlyn happily calls Prithvi to tell him about Preeta's arrest. Pragya helps Abhi wear a good jacket but he refuses to take her help. Pragya gets her Dadi’s call who tells her that Preeta is in jail. Pragya asks her not to worry and that she would soon get Preeta out of jail.
 
 
 
 
 Pragya asks Preeta about what happened and Preeta tells her all. Pragya decides to recheck the CCTV. Abhi calls Rishabh and asks him to come for the concert with Karan. Pragya reaches the club and checks for the CCTV room. Pragya reaches the CCTV room and finds Karan there already, attacking the CCTV incharge. Pragya calms Karan and they decide to work together. Pragya calls in for a press conference. Karan joins her and the Luthra family watches everything on TV. Sherlyn watches the conference. Prithvi is shaken to see the security incharge. Subhash calls Prithvi and says that he is going to confess. Prithvi asks him to say that he has a backup footage.
 
 Rishabh comes to meet Preeta who is worried about Pragya’s security. Rishabh tells Preeta that Pragya has managed to expose the security guard and that Karan is with her. Preeta is relieved to hear that. Prithvi walks in and says that he has the footage and that the security was lying. He traps the security guard and saves Karan and Preeta for a while. Sherlyn gets very angry and vows to destroy them. Pragya walks in with Preeta. The family has some fun moments together.
 
 The Mehra family get ready to go to the concert and they talk about Munni. Janki talks about Bulbul as Pragya gets emotional. Pragya cries as Preeta consoles her and says that they would be together always. Khan chacha somehow manages to get out and takes a phone from a passerby and calls Pragya. He tells her about the bomb in the guitar. Pragya tells Preeta about the bomb. The three sisters go to the concert venue so that they can save Abhi.
 
 Abhi reaches the concert venue and asks Simonika to hold the guitar. Pragya tries to call Dadi. Abhi forbids Dadi from taking Munni’s call. Pragya tells Preeta and Srishti that she fought with Abhi and he asked her not to come for the concert. Pragya prays that they reach in time while Abhi prepares for the concert.
 
 
 
 Pragya, Preeta and Srishti meet with an accident and leave the taxi. Tanu and Alia are irritated as they see Disha taking care of Dadi. Abhi reaches the stage and suddenly remembers Pragya and he gets lost in a dream sequence. Pragya and Preeta reach the gate but they are not allowed inside. For more updates, keep watching this space.
 
 
