CHANDIGARH: The counter intelligence wing of   on April 2 arrested four youths from Gunachur village in Banga subdivision of   district, who were allegedly trained by Pakistan’s ISI. The arrested youth were allegedly planning to highlight Khalistan issue in IPL matches to be held in Mohali.

 A senior police officer of the counter intelligence wing said all four arrested belonged to   village of Nawanshahr district. They have been identified as Manvir Singh, Jaspreet Singh, Sukhwinder Singh and Randhir. The cyber cell of the counter intelligence wing tracked these youths from the Facebook pages in the name of “Referendum 2020”, where anti-India propaganda was going on. The officer said during their preliminary interrogation, this module confessed to the latest modus operandi adopted by ISI agency of Pakistan though social media.
 
 “These ISI agents made a fake profile in the name of a Sikh youth, Fateh Singh, on Facebook, who through an Indian domicile woman Deep Kaur, alias Kulvir Kaur, presently living in Malaysia, actively participated in a social media created movement, ‘Referendum 2020’, to win over young Punjabi youths, whom they can later use for creating disturbance in Punjab,” the officer said.
 
 According to the investigation, Deep won over certain Punjabi boys in their early 20s by giving them lucrative offers to earn good money if they worked for her. She created a WhatsApp group of these boys and after convincing them to do unlawful activities, she introduced them to her leader Fateh Singh, who further gave instructions to them to create panic in Punjab by putting wine shops and public transport buses on fire. When they performed their assigned work, they were instructed to put posters of ‘Referendum 2020’ at all these places so that they could get media attention.
 
 The counter intelligence officer said in its first step, this module started its operations in Nawanshahr district by putting posters of “Referendum 2020” on walls of Banga. But when they did not get any public attention, they then extended their plan to put a wine shop on the   road on fire. As soon as they assembled to complete the assigned task, they were nabbed at Gunachur in Nawanshahr and a case was registered against them at Banga Sadar police station for criminal conspiracy and mischief by fire or explosive substance with intent to destroy.
 
 It has come to the fore in the investigation that Deep is taking care of funding part and she had sent Rs 70,000 already on these four youths, of which they used some money to purchase a motor cycle and rest of the money was given to a person named Asis of Amritsar area for getting an illegal weapon.
 
 
