Look around the streets on a hot   day in Kerala and one can easily spot women in polyester or nylon saris, with tightly stitched blouses, sweating in the sun while a good many men would be in full-sleeved shirts and trousers, again of synthetic fabric, some with even shoes and socks on. It might be a good 36 degrees but schoolchildren as small as five and six years old would be out in their school playgrounds, fitted with shoes, socks, ties and belts, the standard uniform for most CBSE schools across the State.

 And this is all everyday wear, with wedding wear and the mandatory attire of lawyers and certain other professions belonging to another league altogether. Considering that evolution of dressing has mostly been towards comfort in most of the world, how did we, a State where both genders used to wear the ideal   — a simple white cotton mundu — evolve into mindlessness? The answer lies in the very word, according to Sreejith Jeevan, a designer. 
 “We just don’t think about what we wear, or question why we do what we do,” he says. “A lot of it are the result of the colonial hangover too. I have come across baptism ceremonies where six-month-olds would be bawling away in tuxedos in crowded churches, all for a photo. I feel uncomfortable just seeing that sight,” he says, adding that the West seems to be more in tune with nature than us. “In the winter, they wear sober colours and add layers, while in summer they switch to bright colours, just like the nature around. But we seem to be on reverse gear, evolving from loose and comfortable attire to the opposite. We never even have discussions about what we wear.”
 
 While it is easy to blame the British for imposing the norms of a cold country on a tropical one, we are as much to blame, says Vincent Panikulangara, a lawyer who once filed a petition at the High Court requesting that the mandatory dress code of black coats plus the black gowns and neck bands for lawyers be relaxed.
 
 “I have never come across more absurd dressing as that in our State. I often holiday in the Pacific islands, where the temperature is the same as ours, and find life much easier there. Both men and women wear just a T-shirt and shorts, and a pair of sunglasses. It’s perfectly accepted as formal wear there,” he says.
 
 The petition Vincent filed hasn’t had a favourable result so far, and many lawyers themselves aren’t in favour of changing the attire, he reveals.
 “The US and also the UK, from where we picked up the attire, have done away with the black gown, saying it scares children who come to the courtroom. But after all these years, we are still hanging on to the colonial vestiges. I feel the only purpose of the black coat and gown is to create an air of mystery among the clients, together with using English in courts, despite the fact that hardly 25% are fluent in the language. The coat serves no real purpose, unlike a helmet for a factory worker,” he says.
 
 Vincent mentions in his petition that during hot summer days, a crowded courtroom can be unhygienic as well, as the black coat cannot possibly be dry cleaned every day. Why, then, is it that not everyone is up for a complete wardrobe overhaul?
 
 Because comfort is not the only priority for all, reasons Shalini James, designer. The lawyer’s attire, she says, carries with it a solemnity and pride and the “power dressing element” and a revision can be made only after “careful thinking”.
 
 Interestingly, policemen also feel the need for shoes and the cap to command power. “It’s part of our look and lends dignity to the profession, and distinguish us from bus conductors or auto drivers,” according to Jayalal P, senior chief petty officer.
 
 Cultural conditioning is also deep-rooted in us, and we can’t just ditch our traditional attire for shorts and t-shirts, Shalini points out. Which is why we wear silk saris for weddings, even if there is no AC, she adds.
 
 That is also the reason why youngsters put up with tight jeans or leggings during sticky summers. “For them, fashion might be the priority while for many others, convenience is the only thing that matters when you lead a busy life which involves daily travel. Synthetic fabrics don’t look or feel as good as cotton but they don’t need to be starched and ironed.”
 
 What, then, is the solution? What one wears is ultimately one’s personal choice but there could be a balance between comfort, convenience and fashion, in Shalini’s view. “Climate friendly doesn’t necessarily mean Indian attire; anything can be climate friendly depending on the fabric and the fit,” she says.
 
 Cotton, linen or a blend of such breathable fabrics are healthy for the skin while polyesters and other synthetic fabrics are not. “And comfort depends to a great extent on the fit. It is a myth that a good fit means a tight fit. There should be room around the body for a good fit, which is neither tight nor loose. It can still flatter your body.”
 
 With regard to mandatory dress codes too, one can think of experimenting with the fabric, says Sreejith. “We have so many options nowadays.” And we could start making a distinction between what works outdoors and in an air-conditioned scenario, says Shalini. “Items like leggings, chudi bottoms and fitted jeans are best reserved for AC workplaces, so are shoes and socks.”
 
 But in the case of schoolchildren, the priority should only be comfort. “They should be able to walk and play with ease. Shoes, socks and ties are dispensable, I think,” she says.
 
  Shalini is optimistic when she says that people in our State are making wiser choices these days. “They are increasingly opting for cotton, even for occasions.”
 
 Vincent, however, feels that Malayalis anyway don’t have traditional attire anymore, so they may as well adopt the most comfortable from across the world. “I don’t understand, is there any item in our daily wear which we can call our own, including innerwear? Why then do we go for uncomfortable clothes?” he asks.
 
 
 
 1, The humidity levels in Kerala are very high. So loose cotton clothes of light colours are best for our weather for many reasons. They can absorb sweat if any.
 2, The denser the weave of the fabric the more the UV protection. Cotton has the densest weave but the clothing should be loose. 
 3, The majority of skin problems we come across are from abrasions due to use of tight elastics of innerwear. Spandex brassieres have been found to cause dermatitis and fungal infections and they too should be of white cotton.
 4, For men, white cotton boxers are best. Cotton vests can absorb sweat but if the situation is such that the sweat stays all day they should be avoided.
 5, Wearing fabric which does not absorb sweat might also lead to skin allergies, from the dyes and fabric softeners in them. Tight clothes, especially trousers and pants, increase the chances of fungal infections in hot weather.
 
 
 
 For centuries, the regular attire for men and women in Kerala was just a white cotton mundu tied around the waist. Even kings like Marthanda Varma used to wear the same, and jewellery was the only thing which separated him from the public. The king wore upper garments only when meeting important people.
 Women too did not cover their upper body and would use a neryathu at times when they had company. As underwear, they wore something called ‘thattu’ a long piece of clothing tied around the body which was actually much more hygienic, though it would come across as funny now. Non-Hindu women used to wear loose upper garments, though.
 
 It was the Christian missionaries who encouraged Hindu women to cover their upper bodies and they started wearing loose blouses towards the latter part of the 19th century. At the same time, a judiciary system and police were introduced and they followed the same attire as the British, though the police uniform went through a lot of changes since.
 
  By the mid 20th century everyone including men and women wore upper garments. But we had only cotton and all other materials were imported and so very rare.
 
 Post the 60s people started wearing non cotton fabric like terylene. It was the English medium schools which introduced the concept of the school uniform which again followed the British patterns of pinafores/shorts, shoes and socks.
 
 
 
