GURDASPUR: In a reprieve to former Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) minister Sucha Singh Langah, currently under arrest in a rape case, the complainant changed her statement in the court on Wednesday and absolved him of the charges. 
  
 Speaking to TOI, Langah’s counsel   said, “The woman has finally spoken the truth in the court of additional sessions judge   by stating that she was not raped by Langah.” He said the complainant told the court that she was not the one who was seen with Langah in the video that went viral before the   byelection in October. 
  
 However, public prosecutor   said the woman didn’t support the case of prosecution and changed her earlier statement made to the police. Bains said the woman told the court that she had not given any such statement (of Langah raping her) to police. However, there is more evidence and witnesses, which the prosecution will present in the court during case hearings, Bains added. 
  
 The court will hear the case on March 12. 
  
 Following a complaint of a woman government employee on September 29, 2017, that Langah had raped her several times between 2009 to May 27, 2017, police had registered a case against the Akali leader under sections 376 (rape), 384 (punishment for extortion), 420 (cheating) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC at Gurdaspur City police station. The woman had also given a video clipping made by her along with her complaint. The video was later uploaded on social media. 
  
 After the registration of a case against him, Langah had gone underground before surrendering in the Gurdaspur court on October 4, 2017. Earlier, on October 2, he had approached a Chandigarh court to surrender, but his application was declined. The court had asked him to surrender in Gurdaspur. 
  
 Many Panthic organizations had urged the Akal Takht jathedar to excommunicate Langah from the Sikh Panth and demanded that police add Section 295 A (hurting religious sentiments) of the IPC in the FIR against him. Police had subsequently added Section 295A of IPC in the FIR. The Akal Takht jathedar had also convened an emergency meeting of Sikh high priests at the Akal Takht secretariat on October 5, 2017 and decided to excommunicate Langah without even summoning him to give his clarification. 
  
  
