NOIDA: From Tuesday, any   on Noida’s notified land will invite hefty fines ranging from Rs 2,500 to Rs 50,000. The   has increased the fine amount by three to four times from what was being charged till now to overcome the problem of encroachments on busy roads and footpaths in the city.

 Under the scanner will be food vans, gensets, vendor carts, water dispenser trolleys, makeshift food counters etc. Even a two-wheeler or a four-wheeler parked in public places or non-designated spaces will be seized and owners will be fined Rs 2,000 and Rs 5,000, respectively. A second-time violation by vehicle owners will invite fines of Rs 4,000 and Rs 8,000, respectively. Anyone aiding in encroachment of public land will be fined Rs 50,000 by Noida Authority.
 
 The encroachment drive will be launched from Tuesday by respective work circle officers of Noida   across all categories of land use in residential, commercial, industrial and institutional areas. Chief project engineer Sandeep Chandra will be the nodal officer for the campaign, while additional CEO (ACEO) RK Mishra will monitor and enforce the drive on a weekly basis.
 
 Mishra said the aim of the exercise “is to reclaim government land and bring the squatters to book”. “The charge of acting against squatters is with circle officers and project engineers of the Authority under whose jurisdiction the encroached land falls. They are supposed to act against squatters who occupy public space on footpaths, along roads or indulge in illegal construction on government land,” he told TOI on Monday.
 
 “We had decentralised dealing with encroachment last month when Noida Authority chief   scrapped the enforcement wing that had the job of acting against encroachments on government land. If any encroachment is found across Noida’s notified area, the respective work circle in-charge will be held responsible and strict action will be taken against them,” Mishra said.
 
 The ACEO also said any confiscated property from encroachers will be the responsibility of the respective work circle officers. “Collection of fines, seizure of the properties etc will also be the responsibility of the work circle officers along with Noida police. If the seized property is not collected within a year by its owners, we will auction it,” he added.
 
 
