LUDHIANA: Two to three unidentified masked thieves struck at a private   on Khanna-Malerkotla road, and decamped with gold jewellery from the safe. Police have registered a case against unidentified accused into the matter, and is looking at clues for identification of the miscreants.

 Police officials said on Friday night around 12.10am, a masked thief first entered the premises of a private bank near Rasoolra village on   road after making a hole in the wall. They added that he then broke around 10-11 CCTVs installed in the bank, and later two more thieves entered the bank through the same hole. They first tried to break the main safe, but failed. Cops said later the miscreants broke around four gold lockers containing eight to ten tolas of gold jewellery, and took them away. Before leaving, they took away a 12-bore rifle of the bank’s security guard deposited in the bank at night.
 
 Bank manager   told police that on Friday morning when he came to the bank, he found the bank’s inner gate broken, and later after checking, found some gold jewellery missing. He then informed the police, after which cops from   police station reached the spot and started a probe into the matter. Police later registered a case under sections 380 (theft in dwelling, house etc) and 457 (lurking house-trespass or house-breaking by night in order to commit an offence punishable with imprisonment) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC).
 
 Superintendent of police (SP) Investigation   said one of the CCTVs — which escaped the notice of the thieves — captured their images. The miscreants are aged between 20 and 25 years of age, and cops hope to crack the case soon. The SP added that the bank did not have a security guard on night duty. Police officials said the bank manager had forgotten to take the keys of the lockers with him, and had left them at the bank itself. They added that the vacant plot on the side of the bank building was always a security risk, as anti-social elements could have barged into the bank from there.
 
 
