KOCHI: A state known for its excellent set of health indicators is witnessing an increase in new infections as well as re-emergence of old infections over the past few years. Health experts said that this was mainly due to decreased immunity in   and environmental destruction that has led to increased pollution and man-animal contact.

 
 “With development, infections should reduce. But in the 20th century we have noticed that due to material usage and lifestyle changes, now there are newer infections and old infections are re-emerging. Almost 40% to 60% of the new infections is from animal to human. However, this is not just a problem with Kerala,” said Dr A Sukumaran, state epidemiologist.
 
 The number of newer infections in Kerala is on the rise. Japanese encephalitis, chikungunya and dengue—are all relatively-newer infections in the state. “This is mainly because Kerala is densely populated with high amount of migration,” said state secretary of   (Kerala chapter) Dr N Sulphi.
 
 Health secretary   said that Malayali lifestyle and dietary habits are ruining people’s health and making them susceptible to infection. “But this problem is not just about Kerala. It is everywhere. The only difference is that due to our health surveillance we pick up cases and we don’t hide it. Though this brings us some embarrassment, our public health reporting remains honest,” added Sadanandan.
 
 While the state has managed to keep conventional infections under control, new viruses continue to emerge. “The main reason for this is that we don’t have natural immunity as we are not exposed to these diseases,” said Dr R V Ashokan, chairman,   Hospital Board of India.
 
 Health experts said the detection of Nipah virus cases is also a wake-up call for the state government to focus on the need to improve infection control measures as well as improve surveillance system.
 
 “There is also a need for animal surveillance to check on the spread of these diseases, with multiple discipline heads – vet and public health doctors – having to work in a coordinated manner to curb emerging zoonotic diseases. Also, we need a comprehensive state health policy for the future that focuses on identifying, treating and preventing emerging infections,” said Dr VG  , who is heading the IMA team studying Nipah virus cases in Kerala.
 
 “Though urbanization is happening in a rapid manner, we are facing major issues of sanitation and waste management now. Our urban development is not properly planned for the future. We need to rethink the same,” added Dr Sulphi.
 
 
