CHENNAI: More than 70,000 visitors thronged the five indigenous naval warships docked at Chennai port from Friday to Sunday when they were opened to the public as part of the DefExpo 2018. On Sunday alone, nearly 33,500 people braved the summer heat to visit the warships  ,  ,  ,   and  , said officials.

 For 27-year-old media professional A Udhaykumar, who set foot on a   for the first time on Friday, it was a dream come true. “I got to interact with naval officers who gave us a guided   of the warships. They answered all our queries on how the weaponry is operated during war. It will remain an unforgettable experience,” he said.
 
 However, many visitors had to endure a frustrating wait. 
 
 As early as 7.45am, 24-year-old software engineer G Karthikeyan made his way to the gates of the   where the Navy had arranged transportation to the nearby Chennai port. But by the time he entered the port premises with his friends, it was already 2am. 
 
 As Sunday witnessed the highest number of visitors, a large number of them had to return home upon realising that they would have to wait in lines that stretched for more than a kilometre.
 
 Around 700 policemen were deployed inside the Island Grounds to manage the crowd. 
 
 “There were no police officials at the Island Grounds gate, where four or five queues had formed since early morning. When the gates opened, the queues disappeared and we were pushed to the back,” said Karthikeyan. The   native, who migrated to the city for work, got to spend around five minutes on INS Airavat, an amphibious warfare vessel equipped with WM-18 rocket launchers. “The experience was worth the wait. But we were so tired and hungry by the time we got out of INS Airavat that we had to skip visiting the other warships,” he said. 
 
 All the five warships on display were commissioned into the Indian Navy within the last decade. Indian Naval Ship Kamorta is India’s first stealth anti-submarine warfare corvette and is fitted with anti-submarine rockets and torpedoes, medium and close-in weapons systems and surveillance radar. INS Sahyadri bagged the best ship trophy at the annual fleet awards held at Vishakapatnam in 2016 and is affiliated with Poona Horse, one of the oldest regiments of the Army.
 
 
