MYSURU: Regular users of the Mysuru-Bengaluru   have a reason to cheer – the   ( ) is all set to upgrade the entire stretch of the highway into a six-lane road, besides proposing to build bypass roads at Bidadi, Ramanagara, Channapatna, Maddur, Mandya and  , initiatives that are expected to decongest traffic on the busy thoroughfare.

 According to a press release by NHAI, work on widening the road will be taken up in two phases. While the 56km-long stretch between Bengaluru and Nidagatta will be taken up at the cost of Rs 34.47 crore, the stretch from Nidagatta to Mysuru (61km) will cost Rs 27.65 crore.
 
 The NHAI has already issued a Letter of Award (LoA) to a construction company for the development of the highway. The LoA has been awarded for upgrading both stretches of the highway under the Hybrid Annuity Model (HAM) to Dilip Buildcon Ltd. The entire highway has been designated a ‘fully access controlled facility’ with provisions for service roads being made on both the sides along the entire length of the highway.
 
 On the other hand, in a bid to prevent traffic pileups at the towns along the highway, bypass roads have been proposed in Bidadi (6.9km),   and Channapatna (22.35km), Maddur (4.4km), Mandya (10km) and Srirangapatna (8.2km).
 
 The project also entails construction of elevated corridors on stretches of the highway that fall under the ambit of Bengaluru Urban, in Maddur and Srirangapatna.
 
 The project includes construction of nine bridges, with the length of each one ranging between 75m to 300m, apart from 44 minor bridges and four rail overbridges.
 
 At a recent rally in Mysuru, Prime Minister   has affirmed the Centre’s commitment to turning the 117km-long   into a six-lane road.
 
 Meanwhile, Mysuru MP Pratap Simha said, “Keeping the safety of motorists in mind, all major intersections will be provided with underpass, overpass and light vehicular underpass. The project also provides for resting facilities, bus terminals, etc.”
 
 Highway built under Hybrid Annuity Model
 
 The Hybrid Annuity Model (HAM) is, as the name suggests a mix of the Build, Operate and Transfer (BOT) and the Engineering, Procurement and Construction (EPC) models. Under this model, the government will contribute 40% of the funds for the project, while the remaining 60% will be made on the basis of assets created and performance of the developer. However, the developer cannot collect toll for the road, which will remain under the NHAI.
 
 
