   remained the only goalkeeper not to keep a clean sheet in the   (ISL) but not many could point a finger at him in FC Goa’s 1-1 draw against   FC in the first leg semifinal clash at Nehru Stadium, Fatorda, on Saturday.
 
  Manuel Lanzarote broke the deadlock in the 64th minute for Goa but Chennaiyin bounced back seven minutes later with substitute Anirudh Thapa’s equalizer as the teams played the first draw in 10 matches between them.
  
  The away goal hands Chennaiyin FC an early advantage. Should they keep a clean sheet in Chennai on Tuesday, they will qualify for their second final in three years. Goa must score in Chennai and also keep things tight at the back.
  
  In the first leg clash, played in front of a packed stadium, Kattimani was back in the starting 11 and captained the side in the absence of Naveen Kumar, who was sent off in their last game against Jamshedpur.
  
  Kattimani was comfortable after making a forced comeback and made two crucial saves that kept Goa in the game. At first, he denied Jeje Lalpekhlua, who was on a five-match goal drought, when he chested down a long ball from Mailson Alves and shot, only for the keeper to make a smart save.
  
  The next minute, Kattimani made another fine save, this time to deny Gregory Nelson.
  
   , the most attacking side in the league, were always going to take charge of the proceedings but their opponents were in no hurry and adopted a defensive approach in the opening 45 minutes.
  
  In the midfield though, Goa missed the influential Hugo Boumous who was sidelined by injury. Edu Bedia tried to fill the void but simply couldn’t find Ferran Corominas and Lanzarote.
  
  Coro came close when Lanzarote got around goalkeeper Karanjit Singh in the 12th minute but Mailson Alves intervened.
  
  The moment of joy for the home team finally arrived four minutes after the hour mark. Mandar Rao Dessai did well to win the ball from right-back Inigo Calderon and sent it across to Coro inside the box. The league’s top scorer with 18 goals created space and shot but Karanjit Singh’s save wasn’t enough as the rebound fell to Lanzarote who scored from the outside of his left foot for his 13th goal.
  
  Goa’s hope, however, of maintaining a clean sheet were dashed in the 71st minute. It was Nelson who took time and space to put Thapa through and the substitute justified the faith John Gregory reposed in him with a clinical finish.
  
  Coach Sergio Lobera changed tactics by bringing in midfielder Brandon Fernandes in place of defender Narayan Das. Lanky forward Markos Sifneos was introduced too, but it was just not enough.
  
  The second leg will be played in Chennai on Tuesday.
