CHENNAI: The newly-developed cruise terminal at   received its first visitor on Sunday when  , a luxury cruise liner on a 141-day world tour from Miami to London, docked in the city. The five-month-old ship is headed by a Chennai-based hospitality professional.

 Tourists on board the ship were disappointed with the lack of basic facilities at the cruise terminal, which is the first to be built on the eastern coast of India. All other four cruise terminals in the country are on the west coast – at Mumbai, Mormugao, Mangalore and Kochi. The cruise terminal at Chennai Port was recently opened and had little to offer the 930 tourists who got to spend a day visiting the attractions the city has to offer.
 
 Viking Cruises general manager Sujith Mohan, who is on his eighth world tour, said, “The cruise terminal lacks a money exchange centre. There is no taxi stand for the visitors. Considering the spending power of the tourists, there must be a shopping area in the terminal.” A Mandaveli resident, 38-year old Mohan rued that the tourism potential of the city remains untapped despite its rich culture and history.
 
 Chennai Port, on average, receives less than 10 cruise vessels a year. In comparison, Mumbai receives more than 50 vessels. A Chennai Port official said Mumbai gets more traffic as the west coast is a popular cruise circuit. While Viking Sun will be visiting Kochi, Mormugao and Mumbai later, Chennai was its only stop on the country’s eastern coast. 
 
 On Sunday, the tourists, most of whom were from the United States, visited Kapaleeswarar temple,  , Mahabalipuram and temples in   on luxury buses. Some chose to brave the heat and tour the city on auto rickshaws.
 
 Measuring 745 feet in length, the award-winning Viking Sun has 12 decks and features three pools and an infinity pool as a special attraction. From the United States, the ship travelled to several countries including Cuba, Jamaica, Mexico, Fiji, Indonesia, Philippines, China, Vietnam, Malaysia and Thailand before arriving in Chennai.
 
 On its maiden world tour, the ship will visit five continents, 35 countries and 66 ports. The luxury liner, which set sail from Chennai Port on Sunday evening, will spend two days at sea as it cruises around Sri Lanka while heading to Kochi.
 
 
