KANYAKUMARI: Hundreds of fishermen in Kanyakumari, Tuticorin and   districts abstained from fishing for the third consecutive day on Monday, following an alert by the Indian Meteorological Department ( ) about high speed winds triggered by a low pressure area over the Indian Ocean.

 The IMD alert said the winds in the north-eastern direction could reach 40 to 60 kmph in south Tamil Nadu coast. It asked fishermen not to venture into the sea in the Gulf of Mannar and   area for 24 hours starting Sunday night.
 
 Families of around 1,200 fishermen in Kanyakumari district, that is yet to recover from the damage caused by cyclone Ockhi which claimed lives of around  , are worried about their safe return from the sea. The IMD stated that the winds could travel towards Kerala and Lakshadweep where fishermen of this region were engaged in deep sea fishing.
 
 An official in the fisheries department told TOI that there were 1,300 mechanised boats and 5,600 country boats with motor in Kanyakumari district that are registered with the fisheries department. Following the alert over squally winds on Friday, most of them did not go to the sea. Since the second alert was sounded on Sunday, most fishermen were still ashore as they usually go fishing only in the evenings.
 
 “On Sunday evening, 553 mechanised boats (with about 10 to 18 people in each boat) and 1,079 motorised country and fibre boats (with at least 4-5 people per boat) that had gone fishing before Friday were still in the sea. We have shared the wind alert with 471 mechanised boats. We informed those who were close to the shore. They in turn are passing on the information through wireless communication,” he said.
 
 The official said that those who are close to Lakshadweep were asked to go ashore to Lakshadweep. “Around 50 mechanised boats reached Lakshadweep on Monday,” he said and added that efforts were on to reach the remaining 82 mechanised boats. It is believed that they were off the coast of Kochi and would be safe.
 
 Meanwhile, 1,063 of the 1,079 motorised country boats returned to the shore. The remaining 16 boats were expected to reach the shore any time, fisheries department officials said.
 
 President of International Fishermen Development Trust P Justin Antony who joined officials in the fisheries and marine police in the alert drive on Sunday evening said the officials had alerted all the coastal villages. 
 
 
