KOLKATA: Former India cricket captain   hailed Virat Kohli’s captaincy and batting prowess and said that he had no doubt in his mind that the Indian team do well in Test series in England and Australia later this year.
 
 
 
 
 “Virat struggled in England (in 2014) and in less than six months’ time he scored four hundreds in four Tests in Australia. I’ve not seen any Indian batsman play so well in Australia,” said Ganguly, who along with Virat, launched a book — ‘Eleven Gods & A Billion Indians’ — by cricket historian Boria Majumdar at a city hotel on Saturday.
 
 
 
 “Sachin (Tendulkar), Rahul (Dravid), VVS (Laxman) and I — we all got hundreds in Australia, have but what Virat did in those four Tests was something I’ve not seen for a long time. That actually, transformed him,” Ganguly added.
 
 Lauding Virat for ability to balance the captaincy and batting responsibilities, Ganguly said: “There is a thin dividing line between the two which often gets blurred. Virat has not let captaincy interfere with his batting. His record speaks for itself,” Ganguly added.
 
 The former captain also said that he expects India to set the record straight in the upcoming Test series in England and Australia under Virat’s leadership. “He has a got a fantastic group of players under him. If our batsmen put at least 350 runs on board, we have the bowlers to pick 20 wickets,” Ganguly stated.
 
 Ganguly was appreciative of Kohli’s emphasis on fitness. “There’s a purpose to it. It may sound old-fashioned, but there’s a reason behind it. Over the years, he has realised you play the best when you are the fittest,” said Ganguly, pointing out that the change in culture had come under his captaincy.
 
 On a lighter note, Ganguly said he could foresee Virat performing another shirt-waving act at Lord’s if India win the 2019 World Cup.
 
 “I can guarantee that, if he (Virat) wins the World Cup final at Lord’s in 2019. We better get our cameras ready, as he’s got six packs, I would not be surprised if he’s on Oxford Street with the trophy and his shirt off,” Ganguly said with tongue firmly in his cheek.
 
 
