NEW DELHI: The implementation of the Real Estate Regulation (and Development) Act, 2016, in the country is woefully short of expectations even almost a year after all its sections became law on May 1, 2017.

 
 Of the 28 states (the act is not applicable in J&K) where the Act is to be enforced, only three have appointed a permanent regulator, only 14 states have functional portals, and only 20 states have notified rules. All seven UTs, however, have notified the rules.
 
 The   assembly, in fact, passed the West Bengal Housing Industry Regulation Bill 2017 on August 16, 2017, after it missed the July 31 deadline by the Centre for adoption of the  . But eight months on, a regulator is yet to be appointed. Neither is the website ready.
 
 Maharashtra, MP and   have appointed permanent regulators under Rera. All other states where Rera is being implemented are functioning with interim designated regulators, a report said.
 
 To enable customers to easily access project information, Rera says all states must maintain a web-based portal where all developers will upload project information. But states like Haryana, Assam, Kerala, Telangana and Orissa do not have these portals.
 
 
 
 Even in states like Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Rajasthan and Andhra Pradesh, among others, where web-based portals have been launched, the information uploaded by developers is so scanty that it is practically of no use, said Knight Frank chief economist and national director (research) Samantak Das.
 
 At the same time, the state Rera rules, wherever implemented, are not very clear about registration of ongoing projects launched before all sections of the RERA Act became law on May 1, 2017. The law came into effect with 59 of 92 sections notified on May 1, 2016. Exactly a year later, the remaining sections came into force.
 
 This has left a large number of buyers unprotected and with heartburn. All ongoing projects had to be registered with Rera by August 2017. But even today, a number of projects that have not secured occupation certificates from the authorities remain unregistered with Rera .
 
 The seven north-eastern states have not notified Rera because of certain constitutional obligations.
 
 The appointment of an authority under Rera in every state was expected to go a long way towards regulating the sector and making it transparent.
 
 
 
