MUMBAI: A 19-year-old girl died on Saturday evening after a speeding bike knocked her down at Worli seaface. The girl’s jacket got entangled in the bike and she was reportedly dragged for some distance. She was rushed to Lilavati hospital, where she died on Sunday. 

 Girija Amballa was crossing the road around 9.30pm along with a friend, Kunal Vaidya (21), when the   occurred. One of the three people on the bike also sustained severe injuries and has been admitted to hospital. Girija sustained severe head injuries as she was dragged along the road.
 
 Girija was studying Bachelor of Transport Management. “She was a very bright student and I had a lot of hopes for her future. She would have turned 20 on February 1,” said her father, Gangamurali, who is employed at NDTV’s tape library here. The family wanted to donate her organs but she suffered too much blood loss. The family resides in Lower Parel. She is survived by her parents, an elder sister and a younger brother.
 
 
  
  
 
 Girija was accompanied by fellow college student, Kunal. “We had crossed the road and were ascending the steps at Worli seaface when a speeding bike came towards us. She saw it and pushed me out of the way. The bike hit her, and her jacket got entangled in it. The bike dragged her for some distance. There were three people on the bike,” said Kunal. A couple in a passing car took them to Lilavati hospital, but she did not survive. Kunal sustained minor injuries.
 
 The biker, who sustained severe injuries, was first taken to Podar hospital. “He told us there was one pillion rider,” said a police officer. Police added that the pillion rider sustained minor injuries and was discharged after first-aid, while the   was shifted to the ICU at a hospital in Mahim. 
 
 Worli police have lodged a case under section 279 (rash driving or riding on a public way) and 338 (causing grievous hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) against the accused. 
 
 “The biker and his friend are students. They were not drunk. We will examine the licence soon,” said Gajanan Desurkar, senior police inspector. He added that they will arrest the biker once he is discharged from hospital. Both the biker and pillion rider were residents of Machchi market in Mahim. 
 
 
 
 
 Joint commissioner of police (traffic) Amitesh Kumar said the decline in road accidents was the result of continuous action against drunk driving and bandobast during pea
 k hours. The leading causes for accidents in the city are dangerous driving or overtaking, and speeding. “We have chalked out ‘black spots’, which has helped keep a check on accidents. Also, introduction of gadgets like CCTVs and speed calculation meters, has been a deterrent,” said Kumar. 
 
 Former joint commissioner (traffic) and current additional director-general of police (prisons) B K Upadhaya said a study by agencies showed that after two-wheelers, pedestrians were most prone to die in road accidents. “Abroad, there are proper traffic systems and guidelines set, which are followed properly by pedestrians and motorists. In India, such systems are not up to the mark,” he said.
 
 Former IPS officer-turned-lawyer Y P Singh said the strong and pervasive drive by Mumbai Police against drunk driving had produced good results. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Mode of transport---------2016---------2015---------2014--------2013
 
 2-wheeler---------------------226-----------146------------195----------155
 
  
  
 
 
