 is not the conventional Bollywood film director. Given to doing things his own way, Mishra has to his credit films like 'Iss Raat Ki Subah Nahi', 'Hazaron Khwaishein Aisi', 'Chameli' and 'Inkaar'. This time, the National Award winning director, gives a twist to Sarat Chandra Chattopadhyay’s tragic tale of Devdas Mukherjee and turns him into a 21st century young and ambitious UP politician, who doesn’t become a slave to love in ' '. In a run up to the film’s release, Mishra visited the city and talked to us about why he shot the film in his hometown, about how the movie is on a much larger scale and why he did not cast a big star as Devdas.

 
 Giving his reasons about shooting 'Daas Dev' in Lucknow, Mishra says, "I could have shot this film anywhere else, but with Lucknow, I'm so familiar with the place. I know what to use and how, in the city, in my film, I know where to shoot, how to shoot, so it makes things easier for me. This is where I belong, I was born here, lived here for so long, so nobody can tell me where I can shoot. The road to Faizabad, where we travelled nearly every day to shoot, I have travelled on that road very often because the raja of   and my family have been friends since years. For me, people of Lucknow are very nice. You ask somebody for something and people in Lucknow will tell you about something else also that they can do for you. In my context, I go to a place and I don’t know the person apparently but then that person reminds me that 'bachpan mein toh humne tumhe gode mein khilaya hai'. They'll say 'I knew your grandfather, this is where he used to sit'. With Lucknowites, you take something from them and try to give them money and they'’ll say 'what the hell are you talking about. I can't take money from you!' I go to a place, a shop or restaurant, and I don't tell them anything and my unit wants to buy something from there and the person will say this person is Sudhir Mishra and his grandfather is so and so who started the Jai Narain Mishra and Kanyakubj College. And then they say 'we can't take money from you!' And my unit has packed so much stuff and then I have to tell them how can you do this, but they won’t relent. That's how people in Lucknow are! Itna apnapan hai sab mein yahan pe."
 
 
 Sudhir says for him the best part about shooting in Lucknow was that he reconnected with his long lost relatives and family friends. "I must be having thousands of relatives here. We are a four generation old family. If you go to  , there's family, in Narhi there's family. It’s like suddenly you meet a woman and she says she took care of you when you’re a kid, and it’s quite amazing. Somebody will say I was with your uncle in school, then some old man tells you stories about your family that you never knew. Some stories of my family, that they don't want me to know have been told to me by people here (laughs)." 
 
 
 On why most of his films deal with a political subject, Sudhir says that perhaps it stems from the time he spent with his maternal grandfather, DP Mishra, who was at one time the chief minister of Madhya Pradesh and a Member of Parliament. "My maternal grandfather DP Mishra was from MP. And they say he was quite close to Indira Gandhi. So Nanaji used to say that power is not yours because you come from a certain womb. But he'd been the chief minister and an MP and I'd seen him in politics from since I was very young. I would sit with him and observe how he would talk to people and listen to what he would be saying. So when you're that age, you are absorbing a lot of what's happening around you. I was the son of a very educated man so I was getting a lot more than kids at that age would normally be exposed to. And I kind of kept in touch with UP politics. So I have seen power up from very close and it is the most dangerous addiction that ever is. Power can cause you to destroy and do many-many cruel things. Power ultimately causes you to destroy yourself. And that is the crux of my film's story; this addictive nature of power. But yes, as you said, because I have had such a close connection with politics, it perhaps influences my films."
  
 
