LAS VEGAS: Japanese auto giant   will have electric or electrified options on all its cars and that of its luxury division   by 2025, president   said on Monday.

 At the International Consumer Electronics Show (CES), the company also announced high-level partnerships with companies such as American tech giant Amazon and ride-hailing companies —Uber & Chinese Didi Chuxing — for foray into the autonomous vehicles segment through a new-electric concept called the e-Palette. The electric e-Palette can serve various commercial needs such as delivering packages, pizzas and, of course, people. The focus will be on electricconnected cars that increasingly get autonomous.
 
 “Today, Toyota offers 37 electrified vehicle models in over 90 countries. By the early twenty twenties, we will have more than 10 battery-electric vehicles available worldwide. By 2025, every model in the Toyota and Lexus line-up will either be electric or have electrified options.” Toyoda said that the company is working on new solutions and partnerships while looking at new mobility concepts as it faces stiff competition from non-auto companies or the tech giants.
 
 “Technology is changing quickly in our industry and the race is on. Our competitors no longer just make cars. Companies like  , Apple and even Facebook are what I think about at night,” said Toyoda, whose family controls the Japanese company.
 
 He said that his goal is to transition Toyota from an automobile company to a mobility company. “And the possibilities of what we can build — in my mind — are endless… We want the car to be a seamless extension of their phones and computers — a kind of personal assistant on wheels, able to anticipate your needs through predictive artificial intelligence.”
 
 He said that a JV company of Toyota and Microsoft — Toyota Connected — has created a platform that leverages the power of big data generated from millions of connected-car customers across the world. “… we are moving from software to the platform. It’s the platform that will be the backbone of mobility as a service, for autonomy, for car sharing (and) for any number of services that we want to make possible.”
 
 
 
 
