BHOPAL: If UP chief minister   is fighting crime by ordering encounter of criminals, his counterpart in Madhya Pradesh Shivraj Singh Chouhan’s answer to the growing lawlessness in the state is to shame and economically cripple them.

 After increasing cases of crime against women,   in a terse message to the state police asked them to do whatever within their might, but act against goons and show results.
 
 The police overdrive with the arrest and public parade of habitual criminals and goons has gone down well with the residents, especially the women who often found themselves at the receiving end. While an overwhelming majority supported the police, some activists have expressed their reservations over it claiming it to be crude and against law.
 
  Municipal Corporation and district administration too have joined hands with the police and demolished encroachments put up by such habitual offenders on government and public land in Nishatpura, Teelajamalpura, Shahjehanabad, and Hanumanganj area.
 
 During the last one week, around 150 accused involved in murder to molestation, were praraded in public across a couple of dozen locations in the city.
 
 “Police action against the criminals is justified,” said Mahesh Chandra Bhatnagar of   township. The shaming of accused in public would help in checking the crime rate in the city, said Bhatanagar, who is also a member of the  .
 
 The repeat offenders are not only being paraded out in open, but during the parade, victims and their kin often give vent to their anger and assault the accused. Cops also seem to silently encourage them.
 
 The trigger for the parade of criminals was the March 10 suicide of a 19-year-old girl in JP Nagar after she was stalked by an auto-rickshaw driver, which has created an outrage.
 
 ‘This is a good move by Bhopal police as it will instill fear in the minds of the goons and they will realize that they will be punished for their deeds. If one eve-teaser is punished today, four others will learn the lesson for the future,’ said  , a housewife.
 
