HYDERABAD: After a lull,   and   renewed their water war on Wednesday which was triggered by the former stopping release of water to the right canal of   which flows into AP. Later in the day, Telangana lodged a complaint against its neighbour with the   district collector and SP. 

 Telangana irrigation officials said they stopped the water after the   (KRMB) issued a letter to them on Tuesday stating that AP has exceeded its quota of water by 2.3 TMC as of February 26 and urged it to immediately stop unauthorised and excessive utilisation of water. However, AP irrigation officials claimed they had actually received 0.3 TMC of water less than the allocated quota of 60 TMC from January to February end.
 
 The drama began after Telangana stopped the release of water around 8am on Wednesday. Immediately, AP irrigation officials confronted their T counterparts leading to a war of words. Adding to the tension, both states summoned additional police personnel from Nalgonda and Guntur. While Telangana officials displayed the KRMB letter, AP officials showed a letter written by their engineer-in-chief and demanded the immediate release of water.
 
 “They refused to listen even after we showed the KRMB letter. They said they are not bothered about the overall utilisation and tried to release water forcibly. They came with the mandal revenue officer and police personnel. I immediately brought this to the notice of Nalgonda district collector and SP. The arguments created a tense situation at the dam site,”   chief engineer SSunil told 
 over phone.
 
 While Telangana officials said they need to preserve the water in order to cater to the drinking water needs of Hyderabad, the AP officials said they needed another 2,000 cusecs. “In fact, AP has utilised 62.4 tmc feet water against the allocated 60 tmc by KRMB” said Telangana officials and threatened to take the issue to KRMB. The KRMB letter also made it clear that the remaining water in both Srisailam and Nagarjunasagar should go to Telangana as AP has utilised its allocation fully.
 
 Contesting this, AP said it had represented the issue to the board and according to sources, CM Naidu has already telephoned KRMB member secretary Paramesham seeking release of some more water through the Nagarjunasagar right canal to meet needs of Guntur and Prakasam.
 
 
 
