NEW DELHI: A nother UPA scheme maybe rechristened, with the BJP government looking to "reform" the popular programme that posts young professionals in rural areas for better implementation of public projects. 

 Union rural development ministry is learnt to be revising the Prime Minister's   ( ).
 
 Designed as a two-way street, PMRDF provides an opening to experts who want to play a role in social change by helping the government with technical expertise from private sector in its welfare projects. The fellows are put under the command of district magistrates who preside over development across the country while being indispensable cogs in rural areas. Launched in 2012, two batches of PMRD fellows - 156 and 160 - were posted in 84   (Naxal-affected) districts. 
 
 Now, PMRDF scheme may be renamed with changes in its details and an expanded intake of fellows. "The new name is yet to be finalised," sources said.
 
 If the name is changed, it would not be the first under Modi government. Virtually all schemes of rural development ministry, from rural housing to skill development, have been added the prefix "prime minister" or dedicated to RSS icons.
 
 PMRDF takes youngsters with four-year degrees like in agriculture, animal husbandry, engineering and medicine, even though regular post-graduates are also eligible. The fellows are paid a monthly stipend for working in districts for two years.
 
 In the revised version, it is learnt that fellows may be redirected from district to block level for working in " " scheme, which has the objective of making 50,000 panchayats "poverty-free". It was felt that expertise of fellows could not be leveraged optimally at the district level during the five years of the scheme. To cater to 5,000 clusters of 50,000 panchayats, the intake of fellows may be increased to 1,000 from the present 160.
 
 Having decided to revise the scheme, the government did not recruit the fellows after the second batch completed its work in late 2017.
 
 The idea of providing space in government to you- ng professionals who want to play a role in social change is catching up since the central scheme was launched in 2012. 
 
 W hile "consultants" are being posted in planning bodies and ministries, Maharashtra,   and Chhattisgarh have started schemes on the lines of the central programme. In Chhattisgarh, 40 fellows are posted in 27 districts and in key offices of chief minister, chief secretary among others. Haryana takes 22 "associates", with one posted in every district. 
 
 
