NEW DELHI: A 10-year-old boy was abducted when he was on his way for coaching classes on Monday evening at Jyoti Nagar, northeast Delhi. A ransom of Rs 1 crore was demanded from the family. But the boy was rescued within 24 hours and two kidnappers arrested. 

 Joint CP (eastern range) Ravindra Yadav said the victim’s cousin, Mohsin (25), had plotted the abduction and roped in two former employees of the boy’s father who runs a printing press. Mohsin is on the run while the other two, Tariq (22) and Danish (21), have been arrested.
 
 Around 5pm on Monday, the boy and his two sisters were on their way for classes when two men approached them. They wanted help in figuring out the way to the boy’s uncle’s house. One of the men convinced the two sisters to return home while the other went ahead with the boy. 
 
 They took the boy to   border and from there boarded a bus to Panipat. The child was forced to have a cold drink that was laced with sedatives and put to sleep in the bus. The kidnappers booked a hotel room in   and kept the boy there for the night. 
 
 Meanwhile, the boy’s family was extremely worried and looked around for him frantically. When nothing worked, they approached the police. An FIR was immediately registered and five teams led by additional DCP R P Meena was formed. 
 
 The whole of Tuesday, the kidnappers made ransom calls from public phones in Delhi and Panipat. Mohsin was in Delhi and even had an altercation with his aides for taking the child to Panipat, sources said. Mohsin was keeping track of the police investigation by pretending to help the family. The child was brought back to Delhi and negotiations over the ransom began. 
 
 Finally, the family agreed to pay the money and it was also agreed that the money would be delivered at a park in Kalilash Nagar. Plainclothesmen took position near it. Then they saw two men roaming around in a suspicious manner and the child following them. The child was rescued and the two men overpowered. 
 
 “Danish and Tariq are unmarried and school dropouts. Mohsin is from Kadampur in Jyoti Nagar. He is the son of the boy’s father’s sister. The boy’s father trusted him a lot and involved him in business dealings too,” said DCP (northeast) Ajit Singla.
 
 Tariq needed money to go to his village. He had asked Mohsin for Rs 10,000, but Mohsin offered him the opportunity to make big money. The trio watched movies to get kidnapping ideas.
 
 The plot was hatched last week and the trio had also recced the route a day before the crime.
 
