PUNE: The traffic police were present and so were the PMPML wardens. Yet,   and   were seen racing past the security personnel deployed right at the entry of the BRTS’ Fatimanagar-Hadapsar corridor along the Pune-Pandharpur road on Tuesday morning. 

 The Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Ltd (PMPML), in association with the police, has launched launched a crackdown on vehicles entering the Bus Rapid Transit System ( ) lanes. 
 
 As part of the drive, heavy security deployment has been arranged at the corridors to keep motorcycles, cars and other vehicles out of the lanes dedicated for buses. 
 
 Four days since the drive was launched, there has not been much visible change on the ground. As TOI approached a traffic constable to find out the reason, pat came the answer. 
 
 “The problem right now is heavy traffic, and we have to control it. You can see so many vehicles on the road as this time witnesses heavy traffic movement, mainly of office goers. It is difficult to control them. If we try to concentrate on the BRTS   now, the entire traffic will go haywire.”
 
 Similar was the version of a PMPML warden. “We try to stop them, but they just don’t care. Morning hours, at least till 12noon, are peak rush time. And it is difficult to stop them,” a warden requesting anonymity said.
 
 On Tuesday, the PMPML’s drive focused on Nagar Road and Wakad areas. As many as 45 four-wheelers and two 2-wheelers were caught for straying into the BRTS lanes, PMPML officials said, adding that the number of squads to keep a check on the vehicles was being increased.
 
 “At present, we are intercepting the vehicles at fault and are imposing fines on the owners so that they do not enter the BRTS lanes again. Very soon the action against the offenders will get more stringent,” PMPML public relations officer Subhash Gaikwad said.
 
 A two-wheeler rider, who had entered the BRTS corridor, claimed that he had not realise that he was getting into the lanes not meant for him because of heavy traffic. “They (PMPML) should first properly earmark the BRT lanes. The lane is almost at the level of the road and I didn’t realize when I entered it. I am driving on this road after a long time. I saw a man who appeared to be a security guard but he too didn’t stop me. It is very confusing,” the motorist, Adarsh, told TOI.
 
 A PMPML official said the utility has taken serious note of the concern. “We have informed the officials concerned and the plan is to put a fresh squad along the BRTS corridor so that proper checks can be ensured around the clock. We have also put up boards along the route. The boards are easily visible,” he said.
 
