LUDHIANA: As stubble burning continues unabated in and around Ludhiana, there is huge jump in the pollution levels in the city as the Air quality Index (AQI) values have shot up during the last ten days and are in “poor” quality bracket. The neighbouring cities of Khanna and Mandi Gobindgarh however have better air quality than Ludhiana.

 As per a Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data, the value of Air Quality Index, that measures the quality of air in a city, for Ludhiana on Thursday at 4 pm it was 275 which comes under the poor category with possible health impacts of “Breathing discomfort to most people on prolonged exposure”. The AQI in the city as per CPCB was worse than Delhi (243), Faridabad (231), Amritsar (188), Jalandhar (179) but less than Ghaziabad (295) and Gurgaon (340).
 
 On May 10, the AQI for Ludhiana was 166 which is considered to be of moderate value whereas on May 9 it was just 86 which is Satisfactory value. The green activists say that the increase in AQI is because of the government’s failure to stubble burning by farmers.
 
 “The pollution levels have increased as the farmers are burning stubbles at will and the concerned agencies are failing to check the same. The problem that farmers face is that they have no other option but to burn stubble as the government has not provided them with any good alternative. The   will continue to increase during the harvesting season as farmers will burn stubble,” said Ajaydeep Singh, a green activist. 
 
 The Punjab Pollution Control board (PPCB) authorities admit that stubble burning by farmers has contributed to the air pollution. “The number of cases of stubble burning has decreased and the number is 100 for the state. However since harvesting season is at the fag end, such incidents will decrease. However we are challaning the farmers for stubble burning,” said chairman, PPCB K S Pannu. He added that AQI will improve in the next few days.
 
 The farmers meanwhile continue to rue lack of alternatives to dispose off stubble. “We have no other option but to burn the stubble as transportation cost is very high and we cannot afford that. The government should atleast provide us some option on disposal of stubble like paying us some amount for the same,” said a farmer from the Machiwara area. He added that setting up power generation units which use the stubble is also a good option, but such units should pay the farmers some nominal price and transport the stubble to such units.
 
 
