PURI: Braving the warm and humid weather conditions, devotees at   ( ISKCON) Mayapur have turned up in large numbers from various parts of the world and got down to grinding the sandalwood (  ) which is used as a paste to smear over the body of   to keep the summer heat at bay. 

 From April 18 for next 21 days, the devotees will celebrate Chandan Yatra festival at the Sridam Mayapur ISKCON Chandradaya Temple with zeal and fervour. As per the Vedic calendar the most auspicious day of   also falls on same day. Popularly also known as the Boat festival of Sri Radha Madhava , this day also marks the beginning of preparations of   both in Puri and Mayapur. 
 
 Chandan Yatra starts on the third lunar day of the waxing moon of Vaisakha month. It is believed in   philosophy that almost 700 years ago Krishna in Vrindavan instructed His devotee Madhvendra Puri to fetch Malaya Chandan or sandalwood from Odisha, make paste of it and smear it over the Deity of Gopal to get relief from the heat. Since then every year during the month of Vaisakha this festival is held. The cooling effect of the sandalwood is very pleasing to the body of the Lord and for devotees it is an act of rendering devotional service. 
 
 For 21 days every evening a large procession, carrying the resplendent Utsav deities on a palanquin will be taken out within the campus where thousands of devotees will sing and dance ecstatically. Then the deities will be placed on a nicely decorated swan shaped boat and will be taken out for a ride in the pond so that They can enjoy the evening breeze. A grand Maha-Arti is performed while the Deities are seated on the boat. During this entire time Vrindavan and Mathura pastimes pastimes ( lila) of Krishna – Rasa Leela, Govardhan Leela, Aghasura Vad, Gajendra Uddhara and many more will be depicted through diorama in the temple by the devotees. Every day delicious prasadam like different varieties of kichdi, cakes, pizza, laddoos, halua, pakoras will be distributed to nearly 5000 people informed Subroto Das Manager Media Communications ISKCON Mayapur. 
 
 At the ancient ISKCON Jagannath Temple Rajapur too devotees will celebrate the festival by smearing sandalwood paste on the deities of Jagannath, Baladev, Subhadra and it will be done regularly for 3 weeks.
 
