PUNE: The   ( ), Pune has requested the district school bus committee headed by   Rashmi Shukla to file criminal cases against the owners of vehicles ferrying school children if they violate the  .
 
  
 B I Ajri, regional transport officer of Pune, told TOI that the death of 14-year-old Raj   after falling off a moving school bus in Charholi last week was shocking. They have decided to step up vigil and take stern steps to check any violation of norms.
 
 “The action being initiated right now against the violators is not enough and it seems that the rules are not being taken seriously. We have requested the committee to take stricter and criminal action under IPC sections against the violations which, we feel, can act as a major deterrent,” the senior official told TOI.
 
 A source in the RTO said the report about the accident by one of their inspectors indicated that the bus ferrying Kamble and 41 other students did not have any mechanical or technical issues. 
 
 “This automatically means that the door of the bus did not open by itself. We cannot still say what caused the door to open. However, it being the eve of Holi, most children were busy playing Holi and throwing water balloons at each other. The attendant of the bus had gone towards the back of the bus as the children were creating a ruckus. The driver realized that there had been an accident and a boy from his bus had fallen off only after the other students raised an alarm,” another official told TOI.
 
 Ajri said instructions have been sent to the RTO office in Pimpri to issue a show-cause notice to the driver and suspend the permit of the vehicle. However, this action was not enough, he added.
 
 “A major drive of checking all the vehicles ferrying students will be initiated but we need to strengthen our basics first. It is our request to the education department to act tough when it comes to schools which are not following norms or forming transport committees,” the official added.
 
 Sources in the RTO said that several letters about stricter action against erring schools have been sent to the education department. Parents should also advise their children and monitor them to be calm and disciplined while travelling in school vehicles, they said. 
 
 
