NEW DELHI: The   on Tuesday dismissed the plea filed by the   and   governments to stall the public screening of ‘Padmaavat’, set for release on January 25, and directed them to take all steps to maintain law and order in view of threats by Rajput groups like  . 

 After the court cleared the countrywide release of the controversial film last week and restrained states from any ban, Rajasthan and MP governments rushed to the SC saying they had the right to suspend its public screening if it disturbed law and order. 
 
 Additional solicitor general Tushar Mehta, appearing for the MP government, told a bench of CJI Dipak Misra and Justices A M Khanwilkar and D Y Chandrachud the state was committed to the freedom of speech and expression of artists, but the film’s release would create a law and order problem. Mehta said he was not seeking relief beyond constitutional parameters, and referred to Section 5 (b) of the Cinematograph Act, which says a film shall not be certified for public exhibition if any part is likely to create a law and order problem. 
 
 “It is submitted that the administrative machinery of the state is the best judge of the conditions prevailing in the state and the state administration is best equipped to have inputs of any likelihood of breach of peace... The state has to take appropriate measures on the basis of the inputs... to maintain law and order in the state,” the Rajasthan government said in its petition. 
 
 The SC, however, refused to modify its January 18 order, clearing the film’s screening, and said it must be complied with by all states. “Some people cannot take to the streets and demand ban on a movie. It is unthinkable. People must understand that it is an order passed by the SC and they must abide by our order. It is your duty to maintain law and order in the states,” the bench said. 
 
 The court also brushed aside a plea by   alleging the film distorted history and should not be exhibited. It said the film was cleared by the censor board after examining everything and academics had watched the movie before certification, and the court could not interfere. “We are not historians. There is a disclaimer... It says the movie is not a portrayal of history,” the bench said.
 
