GURUGRAM: The one grumble people have about running events is that they leave too much litter behind. But the organisers at the Intelenet Trail-a-thon were unwavering in their efforts to do everything possible when it came to managing waste. “This year, I would say there was nil litter,” claimed  , 35, one of Sunday’s early risers.

 In fact, prior to the event, children had performed a street play urging participants on the importance of keeping their surroundings clean. Certainly, the message got through to the more than 1,700 who turned up to take part in running, walking and cycling events, in the fifth edition of the event. The raison d’être of the Trail-a-thon is to better sensitise Gurugrammers to the beauty as well as the vulnerability of the Aravallis.
 
 And if the event is like a carnival (as event co-founder   has been moved to describe it), then all those who gather each year are extended family. “The beauty about it is that there are a lot of runners who, after finishing the event, they’ll start volunteering. Because they all feel that sense of ownership,” Gupta told TOI.
 
 The running part of the Trail-a-thon doesn’t discriminate when it comes to inexperience. So, participants could choose from the 7km, 14km, 28km and 56km categories. And for those whose stamina is built for endurance, there was the 84km ‘ultra’ run.
 
  Taneja, 39, was taking part in the walkathon (7km). It was her Trail-a-thon debut, and the event’s lap-of-nature character appealed to her. “I’m someone who walks continuously with my earphones on, but today I didn’t want to switch on any music because I was so enjoying the nature,” Nidhi enthused.
 
 “It was awesome. I’m overwhelmed and I’m really looking forward to more – though my feet are aching badly!”
 
 In his third year at the Trail-a-thon, Prabhakaran took part in the 28km category. He is one of the many who return year after year, drawn to its back-to-nature vibes and welcoming spirit. “Here, 100 percent of the route is trail. I’ve done   running before but most of those trails have small tar-road sections. This one is out-and-out, to-and-fro trail,” he explained.
 
 Prabhakaran, who has competed in an ‘Ironman’ in  , is mainly into triathlons. He runs and cycles three times a week (and also trains in the pool). “Some days, I do running and cycling together.” He took two hours and six minutes to complete 28 kilometres. Been there, done that. Prabhakaran will be returning in 2019, and so will Nidhi. For this is an event that once embraced, is hard to let go of.
 
