Chennai: With public-sector banks in the end this last week, after the Punjab National Bank debacle, Southern-giant Indian Bank has a lot of reason to pat itself on the back. Its limited exposure to large corporate NPAs and a low bad loan rate have ensured the bank is in the pink of health, said its CEO Kishor Kharat in an interview to TOI. Excerpts: Can you tell us about your NPA levels and how you plan to further reduce the exposure in your loan book? Among the PSUs, we can safely say we are in the best shape. Some of our peers are struggling with NPA levels as high as 17-22%, in comparison our third-quarter gross NPA was 6.27%, down from 7.69% the year-ago. We further plan to reduce this to below 4%.  Our net NPA is as low as 3.30%; we have been able to contain the bad apples in our loan book. Our due diligence in our loan underwriting and our decision to stay away from some large corporate accounts and focus on mid and smallcap companies is paying rich dividends now." What was the reasoning behind your decision to stay away from some large corporates? It was a question of margins. Large corporates always bargain very hard and wanted us to operate on slim margins. At that point, we did not want to offer such low interest rates. They found many of the bigger banks more willing to them accommodate them. Today, the market has changed, some of those corporates are seeking us out. We are today able to charge a competitive rate and adhere to our underwriting standards. The reason for the change has been many of the PSUs, who were so willing to lend at throwaway rates, are now under PCA. And State Bank of India's merger with its associate banks has also pushed some business to us. With the stiffening of bond yields, many banks saw a decline in revenue from treasury operations. How has Indian Bank been coping?  We saw a 23% increase in our income from investments to Rs 1,296 crore. Our non-interest income was down 8.3% to Rs 549 crore. When it comes to treasury, we felt this was not the time to sell our stock.  I know some banks took the call to sell their portfolio and take a hit. But we'd rather wait for the market to offer us decent returns for our G-sec investments. So we held on to our stock and adopted a wait and watch policy. Indian Bank seems to be seeing good income generation from sale of third-party products like insurance and mutual funds. Can you comment Our sales of insurance life, motor, health and ULIPs has gone up. As has sale of MFs, SIPs. People have become more financially aware and investment conscious, they see the need for insurance. Many years ago, insurance was primarily a loan-based product. People would buy insurance when they obtained a home or vehicle loan from us. Today that is no longer the case. Non-loanee insurance is the majority contributor, higher than loan-based insurance. Has RERA implementation been a problem for sanctioning of home loans? Has it caused delays?  Actually we view RERA as a positive to the industry, which will bring in more accountability and standardisation. In states like TN and Maharashtra, where RERA is now functional, we face no issues. In states, where RERA boards have not been set up or there are operational issues - we have been able to give loans based on our financial underwriting.  We have tied up with many of the bank's retired officers. They act as our direct selling agents (DSAs) on the ground. And we find the bank benefits immensely from such an arrangement. They know our standards, they know which clients are bankable, so it has been a win-win for us in states, who have or are in the process of implementing RERA.