Nagpur: Bird lovers are thrilled with the sighting of a satellite tagged migratory Montagu Harrier near Akola. This is perhaps for the first time a tagged Harrier has been recorded in Vidarbha.

 The raptor was sighted on Tuesday by bird watcher Prashant Gahale near   (Manju), 230km from here. “The bird had a ring with number 108 on its legs and transmitter fitted on its back. Identifying Harrier species requires good observational skills,” said Gahale.
 
 Montagu’s Harriers are migratory and spend just a few months of the year on their breeding grounds. Many of the European migrant birds are in trouble and the breeding population of long-distance migrant birds has declined sharply since the 1970s.
 
 In order to protect Montagu’s Harriers during migration and on their wintering grounds, some of these birds were tagged in UK to know about migration pattern and where these birds spend winter. The information collected is considered crucial to developing a plan to help Montagu’s Harriers in all parts of their range.
 
 According to information gathered from various sources, between 2014 and 2016, experts from the Dutch Montagu’s   fitted nine adult birds with small, lightweight satellite tags in the UK. It is not confirmed whether this bird is one among them.
 
 According to former director of   (WII) PR Sinha, former scientist with WII   had tagged some birds in India as part of the research project with forest departments.
 
 “It is quite possible the bird sighted near Akola might be one of them,” said Sinha. WII had also come out with a field guide on Harriers, post research carried out in India between 1996 & 2007.
 
 Sinha says the Harriers as ‘birds of prey’ are vital indicators of ecosystem health, especially of grasslands and wetland ecosystems. India is the largest wintering ground for Harriers in the world.
 
 
 
  
 
 Gahale said in Maharashtra, the raptors are found in the grasslands of Solapur, Yavatmal and Akola. “The bird has roosting sites in Akola and they come in around 100-150 in number here,” he said. 
 
 WII scientists said while the European population of the birds travels to Africa, we think the population from Eastern Russia and Eastern Kazakhstan comes to India. Prevalence of this bird is an indicator of ecology. A Montagu’s Harrier was earlier tagged in Solapur last year.
 
 Montagu’s Harriers are listed in Schedule-I under Wildlife (Protection) Act 1972, while they are at lower risk and least concern by IUCN.
 
 
