PUNE: The economic offences wing of the city police on Monday arrested  , sister-in-law of jailed developer D S Kulkarni (DSK), in connection with the cheating of depositors who had invested money in the   of companies.

 Purandare was the vice-president (finance) in the DSK Group and was among the 13 accused named in the first chargesheet filed by the police on May 17 with the special court for the Maharashtra Protection of Interest of Depositors (MPID) Act. 
 
 Assistant commissioner of police (EOW)   and his team arrested Purandare from the house of her relative in Nigdi. She is the seventh accused to have been arrested so far in the Rs2,043 crore cheating case.
 
 More told TOI, “Purandare was on the run after her name figured in the case and had applied for anticipatory bail, which was rejected by a sessions court here on Saturday. While she is a resident of Dhankawdi, the police traced her at Nigdi, where she was in hiding."
 
 On February 17, the EOW arrested Kulkarni and his wife, Hemanti, from a hotel in Delhi. They have been lodged at   jail since. Purandare is Hemanti’s sister. 
 
 The sisters were looking after the affairs of the finance section of the DSK Group. This section was responsible for borrowing money in the form of fixed deposits and investments from depositors and repaying the same on maturity, police said.
 
 DSK’s son Shirish has also been booked in the case and is currently out on interim protection granted by the Bombay high court. His appeal against the rejection of his anticipatory bail plea by the trial court in Pune is pending there. It is expected to come up for hearing before the high court on June 5.
 
 In October last year, the EOW had registered an offence of cheating, criminal breach of trust, conspiracy and under the MPID Act against 13 persons following a complaint by one of the depositors, Jitendra Mulekar. Apart from the Kulkarni couple, the police had also arrested DSK’s niece Saee Vanjape, her husband, Kedar Vanjape, the then chief operating officer, Dhananjay Pachpor, and then chief finance officer Vinaykumar Badgandi.
 
 
