 is all about spreading love. For many, it’s an occasion to celebrate love with their special ones. But for those with pets, it’s an ideal time to make memories with their beloved furry friends. From taking pictures with their   to whipping up their favourite meal or taking them out for a walk to their favourite places, Valentine’s Day is an opportunity to create some fond memories with them.

 Mini Vasudevan, managing trustee of the animal welfare organization  , tells us, “I had my first pet in 1999 and since then I have been celebrating Valentine’s Day with my  . We usually take some pictures with them with the Valentine’s Day theme backdrop and create a memento for a lifetime. We get some pet-friendly cakes as we cannot feed them the regular ones. The cakes are mostly heart-shaped adhering to the theme of the day.”
 
 According to businessman Santhosh S, the best part about celebrating Valentine’s Day with one’s pets is that it doesn’t matter if you are single or committed. “It’s easy to make your pet happy. They love you unconditionally and are lovely companions to be with on the day. They are the perfect date. Moreover, you don’t have to worry about the fringe elements.” Santhosh is planning to celebrate the occasion by taking his pet to his favourite park. “After a nice long bath, I will take my 3-year-old dog for an outing to his favourite park. He has few ‘dog’ friends there and they can have some fun together.”
 
 For Shobana TJ, this Valentine’s Day will be a tad extra special as this is the first time that her pugs will celebrate the day of love together. “We had a male pug and we brought a female pug last year. When I asked my husband how we were going to celebrate Valentine’s Day this year, he said that we should let our two furry friends celebrate the day. We got some special treats for them. Both my pugs will be ringing in the occasion together.”
 
 Juana James, a biotechnology student, on the other hand, is planning to spend some quality time with her two-year-old dog Brady. “Dogs don’t understand the concept of Valentine’s Day and what matters to them is the time we spend with them. My dog loves his playtime and that’s what I will do today, play with him. Pet’s love is the purest form of love and it deserves to be celebrated.”
 
 Manoj Krishnakumar of the group Barkathon (that takes dogs on outings) tells us that any occasion where they can bring their dogs together is a special occasion for them. “We recently celebrated one of our member’s dog’s birthday parties in the outskirts of the city. We take our dogs for movie outings, camps whenever possible and spend some quality time with them.”
 
 The concept of Valentine’s Day is not just for two people who are in love after all. “Love is a universal concept and the idea is to spread love among all species. Pets are an important part of our lives and this is an opportunity to spend some quality time with them. It’s also instills a sense of belongingness towards them,” sums up Mini Vasudevan.
 
