PATNA: After a week of disruption in air traffic due to foggy weather,   operations at the   in Patna have finally started getting back to normalcy with improved visibility.

 Flight operations started at the airport from 12:30pm on Tuesday. At least four flights remained cancelled and none was diverted.
 
 With weather playing truant, flight operations used to start at the city airport not before 2pm till Monday. Several flights were grounded due to dense fog in the evening hours on two consecutive days in the last week. Besides, six flights were cancelled on Monday and 15 on Sunday due to poor visibility.
 
 As per the visibility criteria owing to short length of runway at the airport, flights are allowed to operate only when the minimum visibility is 1200m.
 
 “Flight operations were comparatively smoother on Tuesday. The visibility, which was at 900 metres around 10am, went up to 1,100m by 12 noon, allowing flight operations to start from around 12:30pm when the visibility was 1200m,” an Airports Authority of India ( ) official at the Patna airport said and added, “Air India’s Alliance Air has already cancelled one of its Delhi-bound flights from the Patna airport for one month. IndiGo cancelled two flights and GoAir cancelled one on Tuesday. The two IndiGo flights were scheduled to fly to Delhi and Bengaluru, respectively, while GoAir’s flight was to fly to Delhi.”
 
 At least 27 flights fly on inbound routes to Patna and similar number of flights fly on outbound routes from the city airport under the revised winter schedule, which was made effective on December 1 and will continue till February 15.
 
 Although airport officials claimed that flight operations were smoother, a group of around 30 Sikhs had a heated argument with executives of IndiGo airlines at its counter at the airport’s terminal building on Tuesday afternoon.
 
 “Our Delhi-bound flight was cancelled on Monday and we were given tickets for another flight on Tuesday. However, even that flight got delayed and the   staff refused to provide us proper information,” one of the aggrieved passengers said.
 
 Airline executives, on the other hand, claimed that such scuffle was quite common during disrupted flight operations due to foggy weather. 
 
 “Another passenger was completely furious as his flight got delayed and he had another connecting flight to the UK from Delhi. We were telling him that the required arrangements would be done, but he was restless. Such incidents keep happening when flights are delayed and we try our best to handle all passengers peacefully,” said the executive of a private airlines at the Patna airport.
 
 
