PUNE: To improve the functioning of the   (BRTS) corridors in the city, the Pune Mahanagar Parivahan Mahamandal Limited ( ) is thinking about installing electronic gates at the corridor entrances.

 Ajay Charthankar, the PMPML joint managing director, said the proposal on the same will be sent to the PMPML board and the   (PMC) for an approval and funding. “The PMPML has been working on the improvement of the BRTS corridors. Illegal entry of private vehicles into these corridors — which are exclusively for the use of buses — remains a big problem and we are thinking about certain measures to control the issue. One way of keeping the private cars out of the BRTS corridors is to install these electronic gates. A proposal for the same will be sent to the governing body and the PMC as funds will be needed for the purpose. We hope the project will be approved and work on the same will start very soon,” the official told TOI. 
  
 
 Sources said the gates, once installed, are expected to be automatic. “Though many of the details in connection with the project still need to be discussed and finalized, electronic gates similar to those installed in private parking lots — at shopping complexes, offices and even certain apartment complexes — might be considered. It all depends on the approval and funding of the project,” another official said.
 
 Currently, all the BRTS corridors in the city, totalling four in number, are plagued by the illegal entry of private motorists. Their entry into the BRTS corridors has been the reason of several serious and fatal road accidents in the past. The entrances of most of these BRTS corridors have just a rope tied from one side to the other to stop motorists from entering. The corridors are also guarded by traffic wardens. However, the wardens have often complained about motorists threatening them and even roughing them up to force them to remove the ropes.
 
 “We have also found out that quite a few doors of BRTS bus stops are not in good shape. Plans are currently underway to fix them without any delay. The system with the electronic corridor entry gates can be similar to the one currently in use to open the doors at BTRS bus stops. The bus driver has a button installed in the bus, pressing which can automatically open the gates at the bus stops. Another button can now be installed to open the corridor gates as well when the bus approaches the entrance of a BRTS corridor. Once the bus is inside the corridor, the gates too will close. With these electronic gates in place, no vehicle, other than PMPML buses, will be able to enter the BRTS corridors. In the case of emergency vehicles, like ambulances, the gates can be manually opened or closed by the traffic warden. Having said that, we will wait to finalize the technology until the project gets sanctioned,” another official said.
 
 
