Modern romance may not have a manual, but it has its own dictionary. New words are added to it every day, courtesy the way millennials date, mate and separate. Hanging out has replaced dating, tuning is the code for ‘hitting on’, slow fade is when the relationship suddenly fizzles and fades and breadcrumbing is the new flirting. Then there’s ghosting, ummfriend, exing – and many more that are being added to the romance roster.

 Now, the notion of love gets a turnaround every half a decade or so. But this time round, psychologist and relationship counsellor Dr Rachna K Singh says there’s a “complete flip over, a 360-degree shift in the way we look at relationships”. Singh says, “The 18-30 bracket has changed the love rules. Monogamy is not highly rated, marriages are not built to last, there’s a steady outgrowing of partners, fewer taboos, even fewer boundaries. And of late, I see involvement in multiple relationships to satisfy various needs: physical, emotional and intellectual from different partners.”
  
 
 
 The dawn of couple hashtags is a watershed moment in romance. Says radio jockey Rahil Mehta, “Romance today is all about taking PDA to a new level altogether. Today, we believe in flaunting our partner. Gone are the days when a girl/boy would hide her feelings for someone special. It’s all out in the open for people to see. Now, everyone wants to Instagram or Snapchat every moment spent with their partner.”
 
 In his book Modern Romance, comedian and actor Aziz Ansari collaborates with sociologist Eric Klinenberg to understand the mechanics and machinations of romance today. In an article on NYU website, Klinenberg said: “There’s this period of life that generations before us simply did not have: never before have people been able to spend their 20s and a good part of their 30s single, dating lots of people, experimenting in their careers and ‘playing’ at being adults.”
 
 In an article in Time, Ansari says, “Today, if you own a smartphone, you’re carrying a 24-7 singles bar in your pocket.” Stand-up comic Kenneth Sebastian feels that we are losing the basic social experiences that made love that much more enjoyable. “The world was less connected before and that created longing. The more people we are ‘capable’ of meeting through the internet, the less value you might have for the person you are currently meeting,” he says. But he’s quick to point out the advantages: you do get to meet more interesting people and hear their stories.
 
 Here’s what some top celebs had to say about romance in the age of cellphones.
 
 
 
 Love is timeless, eternal, yaar! Only the way you romance may have changed with time and I don’t see what is wrong with that. I remember in school, “love” used to happen via chitthiyan (love letters) and now proposals happen on Skype. But the feeling remains the same – technology hasn’t altered the way we feel about someone. The one thing that makes your bond strong is how trustworthy you are. If you find it difficult to trust your partner then you are not made for love. (Rao is seen here with his girlfriend Patralekha)
 
  
  (From left to righ: Rajkumar Rao with his girlfriend Patralekha,  , Sidharth Malhotra)
 
 
 With time everything evolves, so has romance...I don’t see anything good or bad about this change. Yes, technology plays a huge part in the so-called “modern-day romance”. If you use it well, it can be a great Cupid but if you do foolish things with it (like break up) then don’t blame technology for it. My generation would not settle for anything less than what they have in mind for a partner. And why should they? It is not because choices are in abundance; I think it has more to do with self-confidence. Many girls, like me, are aware that there is much more than just being in a relationship. No one is in a tearing hurry to date and get settled. This is the reason why romance has become mature, and lovers are more sorted.
 
 
  feel technology has strengthened the ‘forever yours’ bond. It has only made lives of lovers easier. The way people express love has undergone a transformation though. Flowers and candies may have been replaced by more expensive gifts; but no one can change the feeling of being in love. Though I don’t find it very exciting to make a showcase of romance as in most cases these days. It’s a private feeling and it should remain that way.
 
 
 Romance is individualistic. Earlier, a romantic dinner, a special date, red roses, holiday, gifts were the quintessential romantic things. Now it’s a more personal interpretation. Unfortunately, everything is so accessible now. For instance, the lovely yearning of waiting to see your lover or speak to him or her, is hardly felt. Everything is so in the face. You see couples on dinner dates, engrossed in their phones and being occupied clicking pictures, and you wonder whether they are at all interested in retaining the moment... At the same time, technology is a blessing too, if used well, especially for couples staying apart. Also, I have seen some beautiful relationships blossom from online dating platforms.
 
  
  (From left to right: Anupriya Goenka, Akriti Kakar, Richa Chadha)
 
 
 
 
 Romance is still amazing the old school way. I think a small handwritten message does the magic for me. That’s romance – something just for me and not for the world to see on a social media platform. However progressive technology becomes, it can never take the place of that personal touch we all desire.
 
 
 
 I feel love is an extremely private emotion and it’s best left that way. Personally, I wouldn’t find it romantic if someone used technology to express their love to me. Isn’t it an emotion that both need to “feel”? If you knew me well, you would know my love for animals. That’s why, my friend recently gifted me a cat – and I found this gesture adorable.
 
 
 
 Everything is evolving and so is love. I think technology has only helped lovers come closer. A lot of long distance relationships have thrived due to this. I don’t think one needs to do crazy things in love. The definition of romance is to do things that come naturally but it is special for that ‘someone’. Small is big. I remember having cooked for someone once and that was a very special gesture – because I hate cooking. (Image courtesy: Prathamesh Bandekar)
 
  
  (From left to right: Kriti Sanon, Kenneth Sabastian, Ali Fazal)
 
 
 In a world with less access to information, our ideas of the ‘perfect’ match were simpler. Now, with access to films, romantic shows, gossip, articles, and honestly, false ideas of love propagated through the internet, instead of forming our own opinion of what love is, we follow what we are told. Happiness always lies in the small things in life. If the person you are with makes you happy in the smallest of ways, it’s enough. The problem is that we’ve started believing whatever is big, unachievable and unrealistic is better.
 
 
 
 I believe in serious commitment – that’s the kind of lover I am. Hooking up is not love for me. It’s a phase I am over and done with. I have done many crazy things in the past – like breaking into my girlfriend’s home, played some music and laid out a five-course meal prepared by a chef that she likes. It may sound very clichéd now but it worked at that time. So, yeah... expressions may change but the die-hard romantic will still find a way.
 
 — Inputs from Shikha Shah
 
 
