THIRUVANANTHAPURAM:  's incredible victory in   will have its impact in the upcoming byelection to   assembly seat as the victory in  's bastion is likely to invigorate the party's rank and file. But, it might be the last chance for the party's state leadership to prove its merit in Kerala politics, which is largely a contest between   and CPM. The constituency is heading for a byelection following the death of MLA KK Ramachandran Nair in January this year. 

 The Chengannur byelection is all set to witness a new round of social-engineering experiment by Amit Shah and its success or failure will help him redefine his strategy during 2019 Lok Sabha polls. BJP's plus is the impressive performance by its former state president PS Sreedharan Pillai, who managed to get 42,000 votes during the previous Chengannur assembly election. It is obvious that BJP does not have a better candidate than Pillai. His tough challenge resulted in a blow to the Congress as two-time MLA PC Vishnunath lost the turf to CPM candidate KK Ramachandran Nair in the previous election.
 
 Though the LDF candidate won by a margin of 7,983 votes, the total number of votes polled in his favour was less that what the LDF candidate had won in the previous election. BJP state president Kummanam Rajasekharan said that he could see a signboard to Kerala in the Tripura result.
 
 "The Chengannur byelection is important to CPM, Congress and BJP, irrespective of CPM's rout in Tripura. But, gravity of the loss in Tripura would naturally make Chengannur byelection an existentially important one for both CPM and Congress. Since it's a run up to the 2019 elections, its impact would have far-reaching consequences in Kerala politics. One might not be surprised if Amit Shah camps in the state for the byelection or PM   addresses a BJP rally in Chengannur. The strategies, as usual, would be devised by Amit Shah's team. How long the BJP leadership in the state would survive will depend on how effectively Kummanam and his team can catapult Sreedharan Pillai into the state assembly," said a senior BJP leader.
 
 CPM Alappuzha district secretary Saji Cherian's name is doing the rounds this time and Congress is likely to field former MLA M Murali in the byelection. However, candidates may change in the new political circumstances. BJP central leadership has taken BDJS leadership into confidence and Thushar Vellappally will soon be made a   MP. The support of BDJS is a key factor as it had helped BJP to put up an impressive fight last time. With an eye on the 13% Christian vote share, BJP may also intensify its attempts to win the support of Kerala Congress (M).
 
 
