MUMBAI: Even as Mumbai’s lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender community had reason to cheer on Monday as the   reignited their hopes with its decision to reconsider the constitutional validity of   which criminalizes same-sex relationship, members of the community are still “nervous” and seek “reassurance” from the judiciary with a definite date and timeline for the bench to convene, address the issues and take things forward.

 “This has been referred to a constitutional bench in the past too but unless they tell us when they plan to sit down and start action, I’m sceptical,” said Pallav Patankar who has been a part of the country’s   landscape for over two decades. “There have been a lot of conversations in the past but I’ve seen too many flip-flops as well. The last time we saw political activism in support of Section 377’s repeal was ahead of the general elections and now again, a year ahead of the 2019 elections. Before we start hyperventilating, we need to see some actual action and hope the community isn’t taken for a ride.”
 
 “I’m cautiously optimistic. There have been positive movements set back by regressive judgments in the past. I hope this is a step in the right direction,” said equal rights activist Harrish Iyer. Despite his trepidation, Iyer said the timing of the court’s decision as Mumbai heads into the Pride month will add momentum to the Queer Azadi theme this year ‘377 Quit India’. “Seventy-five years have passed since the Quit India movement. It’s time we regroup and oust this draconian law and call that our sanskaar.”
 
 The despair brought on by the Supreme Court’s decision in 2013 to uphold the law had lessened after it referred the curative petitions to a five-judge bench in June 2016 but the cause of anxiety among the community has remained as one cannot press for basic rights or against crimes till the court delivers a final judgement on this. “When globally laws are changing we have to step up our rights. If India is the largest democracy, it’s time we set an example,” said Sushant Digvikar, winner of Mr Gay India 2014. 
 
 The community, now at the crossroads of its battle towards reclaiming its sexual rights, said the new bench may sidestep problems that the curative petition may have encountered and help resume dialogue to rein in the number of cases of violence, blackmail and extortion that have scaled up since the December 2013 Supreme Court verdict recriminalizing same-sex relationships. Mumbai has recorded at least 50 such cases between 2015 and 2017. “Blackmailers quote Section 377 to threaten and the general fear of being exposed to their family or workplace has worsened. At least four people I know committed suicide last year. I hope the senior bench will take the onus of giving us our rights,” said Sonal Giani, who co-founded the LGBT youth initiative Yaariyan (friendship) and Umang, a support group for lesbians in Mumbai.
 
 The Supreme Court order, which had reversed the 2009 Delhi high court judgment that decriminalized adult consensual gay sex, had said only the Parliament could repeal the law but gay rights have hardly evoked espousal in the Assembly. Shashi Tharoor’s efforts to introduce a private member bill to decriminalize homosexuality had ended in failure twice in three months back in 2016.
 
 However, the three-judge bench offers fresh hope to activists fighting for a happy end to their long and arduous crusade for gay rights. Hailing the NALSA judgment and privacy verdict as setting the course for this new bench that might repeal Section 377, veteran LGBT rights activist Ashok Row Kavi said: “I’m heaving a sigh of relief because I feel Supreme Court is trying to push the envelope faster. If NALSA freed transgenders, the privacy ruling had far reaching consequences for the community. After the strengthening of rape laws and Pocso, isn’t it natural for 377 to go? I’m hopeful that this bench will handle stigma and discrimination against the gay community in a rational and lucid way.”
 
 
