   had opened his spectacles shop on Wednesday just to help a cataract patient buy black goggles. A mob came on bikes and started throwing stones at his establishment, destroying the glass panes and hurting a courier company staffer ›

  P V   suffered fracture on collar bone when a stone hurled at him hit him on the neck
 
 Neither Majgaonkar, nor Ramachandran saw such violence up close. While both are shocked over the hooliganism, residents feel protesting is a constitutional right but those forcing bandh with violence must be strictly punished.
 
 
  
 
 Majgaonkar’s   is situated at  . “We have an eye clinic above our shop, where surgeries are conducted. A patient had a cataract surgery and had come to the shop to get black lens glasses, needed after the bandage comes off. We were showing him the black goggles when all of a sudden some guys came and hurled stones at us,” claimed Majgaonkar.
 
 Ramachandran, a retired government official, was on his way to pick up his wife from a hospital when a stone was hurled at him on Tuesday night. “We were in our car and I was in the passengers’ seat. There were police officials on both the ends of the street, when out of nowhere a man came and hurled the stone at me. The car’s side mirror was shattered and the stone hit my collarbone, where a fracture has been detected,” said Ramachandran, who was fortunate that the stone didn’t hit his head.
 
 A relative of Ramachandran, who was in   police station on Wednesday, said, “Two other families had come to the police station to file a complaint against the protesters. In one case, people had hurled stones at a car, breaking its windshield rear mirror and side mirrors. A woman in the car was hit near her eye. In the other case, all the windows of a vehicle were smashed by the protesters.”
 
 Senior inspector   of the Pimpri police said, “We have registered six offences. Of them, in one case three-four vehicles were damaged and we ourselves filed the case. There were cases of people hurling stones and damaging private cars, too. The process of filing an FIR is under way.”
 
 Majgaonkar, the spectacles shop owner, said the protesters hurled abuses at people who had kept their shops open. “They were actually insulting everyone around. This is not an acceptable behaviour. Protesting is fine, but not at the cost of harming people or property,” he said.
 
 A resident having to close his clinic when people started hurling stones at a nearby bank said, “It doesn’t matter which side calls a bandh, common people are the mostaffected. Even one stone hurled at an innocent bystander should be taken as a serious breach of law and order and police should take the necessary action. The people who organize bandhs should be made to pay for losses incurred due to violence.”
 
