HYDERABAD: The National Company Law Tribunal has appointed an Interim Resolution Professional (IRP) for the insolvency resolution process of   Private Limited that defaulted on loans to the tune of Rs 2323 crore —Rs 952 crore to State Bank of India ( ) and Rs 1,371crore to   (PFC) Limited.

 East Coast Energy had failed to establish the controversial Kakrapalli thermal power project, and after land allocation, witnessed a massive agitation in Srikakulam district of Andhra Pradesh. During the unrest in 2012, police had opened fire and three locals were killed. Also, the construction activity related to the thermal project was suspended due to the violence. After a few months, the construction work resumed, but was stalled again in August 2015 after banks and financial institutions initiated restructuring its loans.
 
 
 In January, 2018, SBI and PFC moved petitions under Section 7 of the Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code 2016. SBI claimed that an amount of Rs 952 crore was defaulted by the East Coast Energy. The first loan was sanctioned by the erstwhile State Bank of Bikaner and Jaipur in 2009. PFC claimed default of Rs 1,371 crore . SBI and PFC opposed the initial two insolvency professionals suggested. The tribunal observed that PFC should have an upper hand in deciding the IRP as the amount claimed by it exceeds that of SBI. Subsequently, Devendra Prasad, suggested by PFC, has been designated as the new IRP.
 
 East Coast Energy had proposed setting up a 2640 MW supercritical thermal power project near Kakarapalli village in Srikakulam district. The project was supposed to be completed in two phases of 1320 MW each in Kakarapalli. The project got clearance from AP Pollution Control Board, Union ministry of forest and environment and Coastal Regulation Zone. The project clearance was extended till April 8, 2019.
 
 Though the construction work later was stalled in August 2015 given the   taken up by the lenders, Power Finance Corporation of Delhi, SBI, Mumbai, and ten other Banks.
 
 According to the target, the first unit of 660 MW was supposed to be commissioned by March 2018 and second unit of 660MW by December 2018.
 
