PUNE: The general body of   ( ) resolved on Thursday that trade and business establishments in the cantonment area, granted licence prior to 2006, no longer need to apply to the board for its renewal.

 Earlier, these establishments were required to apply for renewal of trade licence every year.
 
 Board’s chief executive officer D N Yadav told TOI on Thursday, “The Cantonment Act 2006 provides that traders who received licence before 2006 are not required to apply for renewal barring certain exceptions. If the board authorities find any issues like unhygienic condition at the business property or illegal use of the same, a notice will be served to the concerned trader to shut down business within three months.”
 
 The board’s decision comes close on the heels of the row over closure of the iconic   for 46 days, starting October 10, 2017, following an oral instruction from the PCB president over the issue of trade licence. In a suit against the board’s decision, the court held that the board cannot effect such closure and observed that the Cantonment Act, 2006, did not even mandate traders, who had licence prior to commencement of the Act, to seek renewal.
 
 A trader, who has been running a business in   area for the past four decades, said, “The board authorities should not terrorise trade and business establishments by taking arbitrary action. In the past, the board authorities had issued public notice asking all traders to renew trade licence. Now, they are saying that there is no requirement for those who got licence before 2006.”
 
 Action against illegal shops on Fashion Street
 
 While the civil suit relating to Fashion Street market issue is posted for next hearing on March 17, PCB members resolved to go for demolition of illegal structure in the market depending upon the outcome of the hearing.
 
 Board president   said that all illegal shops at the market will be demolished by the authorities. He also directed the revenue department of the board to conduct a fresh survey to identify illegal stalls at the market.
 
 According to the board authorities, as many as 69 shops are illegal. However, some of the board members claimed that there are more than 200 illegal shops.
 
 
