BHOPAL: A lot is at stake since these bypolls are being held less than nine months before the assembly elections due in November this year. No one would have imagined a fight between chief minister for 13 years   and MP from Guna Lok Sabha seat   so close to the 2018 assembly elections.

 
  
 
 
  Both BJP and Congress may have fielded their party candidates, but the real fight is between a sitting chief minister who won two assembly elections on his own strength and another leader who is aspiring to be the face of his party.
 
 Kolaras is one of the two seats being considered the semi-final before the big fight at the end of the year and perhaps is the most crucial by-election in the past decade. Kolaras will prove whether chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan’s last minute decision of giving a grant of Rs 1,000 per   works electoral wonders for BJP.
 
 The seat was won by Congress candidate Ram Singh Yadav by a margin of 24,953 votes over BJP’s Devendra Jain Patte-Wala in 2013. Yadav’s demise in October necessitated the bypoll this February. Had it been at any other time, the contest would not have been this intense. In a victory for BJP, Chouhan can emerge far stronger than before, but, a defeat could raise questions on whether his image has waned with incumbency of three terms.
 
 
 Why Sahariyas are important: The Yadavs of Kolaras are rich farmers, influential and their numbers are equally high. By fielding Mahendra Singh Yadav – son of deceased MLA Ram Singh Yadav, the Congress ensured that it had the confidence of 30,000 Yadav votes in the constituency as well as secured the sympathy factor. BJP is counting on the Dhakad and Kirar community which has around 25,000 votes.CM Chouhan is a Kirar and no surprise hence, that his son Kartikeya Chouhan was one of the first to reach Kolaras and address a community public meeting in early January. It will be the 30,000 tribal Sahariya votes and 25,000 Jatav Dalit votes that will decide which way the pendulum swings. Komal Adivasi is an elderly Sahariya tribal, a farm labourer and resident of Pacholi village. Asked about the new grant from the government to purchase fruits and vegetables to address malnutrition, he said: “Yes, the women-folk have been receiving the money for the past two months.” But will tribal voters known to be traditional supporters of the Congress party switch allegiance to the BJP? “Can’t say,” Komal Adivasi muttered. “We are yet to makeup our minds.”
 
 
  When Jyotiraditya Scindia is campaigning on the ground, the BJP thought best to field another Scindia opposite him. And so the minister for sports Yashodhara Raje who was missing from the battleground for two months, was finally launched on February 5. But two weeks later, she was caught on video threatening voters that water will not come to the village if the vote went to the Congress.
 
 Not only has the EC notice that followed turned the BJP red-faced, it also angered the electorate. In a constituency where women walk for two to three hours in the summer months to fetch water, a threat does not go down well.
 
