PATNA: Even as   angrily began preparation for the   on April 25, Class X students heaved a sigh of relief to know that the retest of their mathematics paper would be held only in Delhi NCR and Haryana and, that too, if need be.

 The   in a circular released on Friday stated, “The board will be conducting the Class XII Economics paper (Code-030) for all candidates except the students in CBSE schools located abroad. The candidates will appear from the same allotted centres using the same admit card. The date of the said examination will be April 25, 2018.”
 
 The circular further said initial inquiries into the Class X mathematics paper (code-041) “have revealed that the leak was restricted to Delhi NCR and Haryana. So re-examination will not be considered for any other state. If after a detailed inquiry it is found necessary to conduct a re-examination, it will be held in July 2018”.
 
 A visibly happy Class X student Nidhi Roy told this reporter she planned to watch a movie and go for shopping on Saturday evening. “The very thought that I might have to re-write the mathematics test was scary... Now, I feel relaxed,” the Radiant International School student said and added her exams went well and she would score more than 85%. 
 
 Kritika Sharma was jubilant that her vacation plan was not jeopardised. “My parents have already paid for a non-refundable holiday package for Mumbai and Goa,” said the Class X examinee from St Karen’s High School.
 
 Even parents and schoolteachers felt relieved. Sujata Sen, whose daughter wrote the Class X exams, said her family had planned almost a month ago a holiday trip to Bangalore, where they also have to attend the wedding of a relative. “Amid reports of retest, I had thought I would stay back with my daughter to help her prepare for the retest,” she said.
 
 DAV Public School principal V S Ojha said the CBSE took the right decision. “The retest would have only added to the stress of students,” he said.
 
 However, Class XII (physics, chemistry, maths) examinee Shashank Shekhar was seething with anger. “I opted for economics as a subsidiary paper since I was good at it and thought I would score well,” he said and added he now regretted the decision as the thought of retest was set to hamper his studies for the JEE (Mains), slated for April 8.
 
 
