Ileana D'Cruz hasn't had time to go out in Delhi, but one thing that she says she'd want to do here is go out in disguise to have   and drive around the city in the night, when there is no traffic. "I have only visited Delhi for work since I have no family or friends here. I always associate Delhi with food. Sometimes, on my way back to the airport, I would stop to have chaat, but I don't take that risk anymore. Maybe I will dress up differently one day and go out to have chaat. Since this city has beautiful roads, I would love to drive around, but I can only do it in the night as traffic is always a pain here," says Ileana.

  
  
 
 The actress was in the city recently – again for work – for the promotion of her film 'Raid' with  . Ileana, who plays the wife of an Income Tax officer – played by Ajay – says that some people might feel she is playing a small role, but her character will bring to light what   of I.T. officers go through. She says, "It is not a massive role, but it is an interesting character and a memorable one for me. When these I.T. officers are conducting raids, their wives are in the background and not much is spoken about them, but they are pretty much the driving force behind them."
 
  
  Ileana D'Cruz
 
  She continues, "These officers are not allowed to tell their wives where they are going for raids, whether they are coming back or not. It is hard for a wife to deal with that. Malini (her character in the film) understands her husband's job and even though she is terrified, she doesn't show it. My character is an incredibly brave person. In real life, I am not that strong. My partner is a firefighter and it is terrifying not knowing where he is, what sort of a fire it is, not knowing if he will be okay or not. It is very scary." While doing the film, Ileana learnt about the process of raids and what   go through. She says, "Every time you talk about an IT raid, you get to know about the person whose house or office has been raided, and the person's mindset and what he has gone through. But I have never heard about what IT officers go through. They actually face a lot of danger. I am not sure about the situation now, but I hope it is a not as bad as it used to be back in the '80s. According to what we have heard, in the '80s, there were situations where you would find IT officers dead in gutters or they would disappear mysteriously. It was quite a scary situation to be in. When I heard the story of the film, I actually got goosebumps."
 
  
  
 
  Ileana is known to express her opinions quite openly on social media, but she says that there are times when she refrains from reacting online. "That's not because I am a woman. I refrain because I know that a majority of the people on my social media do not think the way I do... There is a lot of narrow-mindedness. So I refrain from expressing myself at times. May be I am too ' ' in the way I think," Ileana adds.
 
  
  
 
