The capital has turned into a fortress ahead of the Republic Day with special commandos of Delhi Police and paramilitary forces deployed across the city, mainly in the VIP areas of central Delhi. Police said forces have been deployed at theatres and multiplexes screening the movie, and the forces are on high alert as anti-Padmaavat violence was reported from adjoining Gurugram.

 Special Commissioner of Police, Dependra Pathak, told IANS: "In view of the screening of ' ' in the capital, we have done proper arrangements. We are continuously in touch with various big and small cineplex managements."
 
 "We have proper security in the periphery of the national capital and additional force has been kept in readiness. We are urging groups not to indulge in any act which could violate the law and order situation."
 Additional Commissioner of Police B.K. Singh told IANS that security has been tightened especially in the New Delhi area, where the parade will take place on Friday.
 
  
  
 "We have had rehearsals multiple times, we are adequately prepared for security arrangements in view of the Republic Day as well as the release of the movie 'Padmaavat'." 
 The Shree Rajput Karni Sena has been stridently protesting the release of Padmaavat on the grounds that it distorts history. 
 
 Incidents of violence have been reported from several states and in Delhi's satellite town of Gurugram, a school bus carrying students was attacked by protesters on Wednesday. 
 
 In Delhi also there were reports of violent incidents in Rohini area, where a group of Karni Sena supporters halted traffic and shattered the windows of some vehicles. The police, however, denied any such incidents took place. 
 "The law and order situation in Rohini and Prashant Vihar area is under control and peaceful.
 
 "There was no damage to any vehicle reported from Prashant Vihar area," Deputy Police Commissioner Rajneesh Gupta said even as images of damaged cars with shattered windows were circulated on social media.
 
