HYDERABAD: Candidates who appeared for the   on Sunday were a happy lot with the exam a bit easier compared with last year’s question paper.

 The difficulty level of the paper was said to be moderate with physics being the toughest, followed by chemistry and biology. Experts predicted that the qualifying mark would be around 135 and average mark would be somewhere between 350 and 400.
  
  
 
 “Physics, as expected, was toughest and lengthy. Worst, there were many calculationbased questions which were time-consuming,” said Amit D, who took a year’s break to prepare for the test.
 
 Another student, P Gayatri, who scored 992 marks in the intermediate exam said “Most of my friends are saying that biology was very easy. But, I felt it was tough. In fact, when compared with all the mock tests I have given, today’s biology paper was harder.”
 
 Experts too agreed with students and said majority of the questions were from National Council of Educational Research and Training ( ) syllabus.
 
 “In terms of difficulty level,   2018 was slightly easier than the last year’s papers. Most questions were not time consuming. There were similarities between the weightage of marks in this paper and CBSE 12th standard paper. Physics was the toughest section amongst the three, and this section was lengthy too and many were calculationbased questions. Both chemistry and biology were not lengthy,” said Rajshekhar Ratrey, VP Educational Content, Toppr.com “While most of the questions in chemistry were based on simple concepts, in biology, most of them were directly from NCERT and were concept based,” he said, adding how a student would need to score between 505 to 515 marks to get a seat in government colleges."NEET 2018 was easy to moderate with 170 questions based on NCERT and only 10 questions were found tricky as interlinking two topics. Minimum marks expected to qualify NEET for any college is 135plu5. However, students opting for government colleges would require 510+-5. Out of the total 180 questions, 110 questions were found easy; 45 questions were of moderate difficulty level, whereas 25 questions were of high difficulty level,” Uday Nath Mishra, Chief Academic Officer, BasicFirst.
 
 
