BENGALURU: Midday meals supplied to at least 30 lakh children at government schools across the state were affected on Friday as more cooks joined their colleagues in Bengaluru protesting for a pay hike. The good news, however, is that the cooks withdrew their protest late Friday night after the government assured them their demands would be considered sympathetically. 

  Thousands of cooks have been camping on  , next to Freedom Park, as the strike entered the fourth day. Late at night, representatives of the striking cooks met CM Siddaramaiah. The CM, according to the representatives, told them their welfare benefits would be considered sympathetically. 
 
  Primary and secondary education minister   and principal secretary (primary and secondary education)   arrived at the protest venue around 9.30pm and told protesters that details of the package the government would offer to the Bisi Oota workers could not be revealed in view of the upcoming budget. "We'll sympathetically consider your demands for PF and   coverage," Sait told protesters. 
 
  The protesters got into a huddle before deciding to call off the strike. "We trust the CM. We are calling off the strike," said  , vice-president, Federation of the Akshara Dasoha Bisi Oota Worker's Association. 
 
 
 
 
 The protesters will take trains and buses to go home at the earliest, their leaders said.
 
 Working for a monthly honorarium of Rs 2,000-Rs 2,200, the protesters, mostly women, are demanding that it be enhanced to Rs 5,000. A chief cook is paid Rs 2,200, a cook gets Rs 2,100 and an assistant cook Rs 2,000.
 
 Claiming that midday meals of at least 30 lakh children had been disrupted during the day, Malini Mesta of the Karnataka State Akshara Dasoha Naukarara Sangha said earlier in the day, “We don’t want the midday meal provided to the children to be affected. Midday meal staff cook lunch for 60 lakh children in 55,000 government schools of the state.”
 
 The protesters condemned the Centre for contributing only Rs 600 to their honorarium and the recent Union Budget had nothing on their long-pending demands.
 
 “At a meeting with minister Tanveer Sait on September 14, 2017, it was discussed that an additional Rs 3,000 will be given as salary for midday meal staff. When we spoke with him on Friday, he said the matter can be decided only by the chief minister,” they said.
 
