Ahmedabad: Dr M Mariraj, 29, a third year student of Masters in Surgery at   who had attempted suicide on Friday said that he had filed over 15 complaints regarding caste discrimination by senior doctors and colleagues, but inaction on part of authorities forced him to take the extreme step. 

 “My attempt to suicide was not an emotional step. It came after two and half years of facing discrimination sans any relief, despite 15 complaints including one to the   for Scheduled Castes. In fact, my HOD of surgery,  , advised me to remove the words ‘inhumane’ and ‘discrimination’ from my complaint. When all my attempts failed, I attempted suicide to make my voice heard,” said Mariraj who had recently run the 21-km marathon and is a football player.
 
 B J Medical College ( ) officials, however, said that two committees were formed last year to address Mariraj’s discrimination allegations. They also alleged that he showed suicidal tendencies then as well.
 
 “The first committee was formed on August 24, 2017, which included PG medical dean Dr   and a psychiatrist as he showed suicidal tendencies,” said top officials in the college. 
 
 When the complaint remained unresolved, another committee was formed on October 5. “A day before forming the committee, on October 4, the college authorities had informed Shahibaug police station about Dr Mariraj’s suicidal tendencies and had sought police intervention. The same letter was also sent to additional director (health) of the state government. Police had also contacted his family,” said top college officials. 
 
 Mariraj, who claims Marxist revolutionary and physician   as his idol, said, “I am a big fan of Che Guevara — the rebel fighter. I am also like him. In any agitation, I fight for human beings. I took the step as there was no option left with me. Even media people came here only after I attempted suicide. Before that no one was there. Had I died, I would be another Rohith Vemula. But the situation has not changed even after Rohith’s death.” Mariraj said that the BJ Medical College authority had tried to convince him to withdraw the police complaint. “My current protest is not for myself only. I am not going to get any benefit and they will fail me, but I believe such things will not happen with other students,” he said.
 
 College officials said that he had come to the BJMC on All-India medical quota and he will complete his masters course in 2018. Officials claimed that he did not get along with anyone and stayed alone in his hostel room. He is yet to submit his dissertation as part of course work, they added.
 
 Talking about the course of events on January 5, college officials said that Mariraj had entered the operation theatre when a major operation was going on. He was asked not to participate as it was a high-risk surgery. But he rushed out and went straight to his room and locked himself in. Later some resident doctors found him unconscious.
 
 
