MARGAO: With the   industry hitting another low following the shutdown of 88 mining leases from March 15, mining industry watchers feel it’s the right time for the state government to invest in mining infrastructure to ensure smooth and sustainable mining transportation as and when it resumes.

 Following the September 2012 Supreme Court-imposed ban on mining, the government failed to create any infrastructure for mining transportation that would have eased mining traffic congestion through the mining belt. What’s worse, the government shelved its plans for building a mining corridor in  , which, if materialized would have taken the load off the rural village roads of the mining belt, and minimized risk to life and limb.
 
 While mining resumed in a gradual manner in 2015, days before the mining season came to end in May 2017, locals led by Mission Bypass, a forum fighting for the cause of mining-affected, had confronted the deputy collector, Quepem, Prashant  , protesting the “reckless” and “unregulated” mining transportation through the villages.
 
 “You are there to take care of the safety of human lives, not to protect the interests of the mining lobby. People are losing their lives on the killer mining roads and you allow mining transportation to violate all norms with impunity. We have lost all our patience. It’s nothing but mining terror that happens on the roads. You are forcing us to become terrorists. If the situation continues like this, don’t blame the villagers if they take to the guns in the near future,” an agitated Pradip Kakodkar, convener of Mission Bypass, had bluntly told Shirodkar, summing up the mood of the villagers who bore the brunt of unregulated mining traffic.
 
 The Uguem-Capxem mining bypass project was abandoned midway following the 2012 mining ban. At a meeting with anti-mining protestors in 2016, the authorities had assured that urgent steps would be taken by the Goa State Infrastructure Development Corporation (GSIDC) for the construction of the bypass from Mascavrem to Uguem, Uguem to Guddemol, and   to Capxem, concurrently.
 
  and chairman of the GSIDC, Dipak Pauskar, had informed TOI last month that the work of construction of the mining bypass road from Guddemol to Capxem was likely to start within the next couple of months.
 
 As part of the land acquisition proceedings for the Rs 104 crore project, Pauskar had said, that the forest land to be acquired for the mining bypass would be swapped with government land in North Goa.
 
 The bypass was to be constructed in three phases. Phase one of the project entailed construction of 8.86km four lane road from Uguem to Guddemol, while phase two of the mining corridor extended from Guddemol to Capxem jetties spanning roughly 8.5km. Phase three was planned to consist of the road linking the mines of Cavrem, Maina, Rivona, etc to the main mining corridor. Of the 17-odd kilometres that comprise phase one and phase 2, 11km is private land, 4km is forest and 2km is revenue (government) land.
 
 In the absence of a dedicated mining bypass, haphazard mining transportation through villages in the mining belt leads to perilous situations for pedestrians and other road users. Though the authorities have placed several restrictions on mining transportation, all regulations are honoured more in the breach.
 
 
