MUMBAI: A 20-year-old woman from Vashi who had gone to meet her   friend, a 25-year-old man from  , was found dead in the building around 7 pm on Sunday. The police said that the girl,  , had gone to meet the accused,  , whom she had befriended recently on the social networking site. 

 Nirgude has confessed to killing the girl after she refused sex, the police said. He will be arrested soon, said inspector   of Tuling police station.
 
 A resident found the girl's body lying on the stairs near Nirgude's ground-floor flat in the four-storey   in Alkapuri locality in Nalasopara (east) around 7.15 pm.
 
 This resident, Santosh Gawde, alerted other residents who called the police. The girl was declared 'dead before admission' at a local hospital.
 
 Though residents did not know who the girl was, some residents told the police that they had seen her visiting a flat on the ground floor. The building does not have a closed circuit television camera.
 
 Gawde said he initially thought that the girl had fainted. He and a few neighbours checked with other residents if they knew the girl, but nobody had any clue who she was. 
 
  The police found bloodstains in the flat. Nirgude, who was in the flat, has confessed to having strangled the girl with a shoe lace after she refused to get physical with him. The girl's cellphone and purse were found in Nirgude's flat. He lived there with his sister who was not at home at that time. The girl had reached the flat in the evening. It was their first meeting at his place, said the police. Nirgude tried to force her into having sex, but the girl refused and wanted to leave the flat when he strangled her, said a police officer. 
 
 
 
 Nirgude then picked her up and left her on the staircase opposite his house and returned to the flat. 
 
 The police said that the girl is likely to have come to Nalasopara without informing her family. She had got in touch with Nirgude a few months ago and the two had got chatting. They developed a liking for each other and decided to meet at Nalasopara. The youth insisted on her coming to his flat. She agreed and landed up at his flat.
 
 Police said that the body has been send for autopsy to ascertain if the girl had been sexually assaulted. The police said that bloodstains were found on the bed.
 
 
 
 
 
 
