COIMBATORE: P Chinnadurai (name changed), a police officer attached to the   police station, tries to shoo away mosquitoes as he records people’s complaints. The police station that functions out of a building that was earlier a school, has only a cement-sheeted roof and no windows. 

 The state of the crime police inspector’s office is even worse. There is neither an investigation room nor a record room. If rioters or a crowd gather, no one can guarantee the safety of the accused or the officers.
 
 This is in stark contrast to the R S Puram police station that bagged the Smart tag of the Central government, winning the best police station award recently. “We shifted to this building in 2006 and since then we have tried to make the best out of it. We set up a lawn here last year after our former commissioner asked us to beautify the station,” said a police officer. 
 
 Seized vehicles are parked on the road outside the station as there is no place to keep them inside the cramped five-cent campus.
 
 Officers said that many police stations reeled under issues such as manpower shortage, old buildings, limited infrastructure and lack of training for personnel, which are all matters of concern. Several police stations in the city did not have the required space to add modern amenities. For instance,   police station and Kattoor police station function out of cramped rooms as there is no space for expansion. “We cannot add a crèche or visitors rooms as there is no space,” said a police officer.
 
 Meanwhile, police commissioner   said he had asked the assistant commissioners to select one police station in each sub-division to be turned into model police stations. “We will convert them into model police stations similar to the R S Puram station. The identification process is underway,” he said.
 
 The plight of the rural police stations is even worse. Valparai police station functions out of a small dilapidated building that has asbestos sheets on roof. Even those in the city, such as the Thudiyalur police station and Vadavalli police station, function in very old buildings. 
 
 With more than 600 police personnel short, the rural police stations in the city cry for attention. They currently have 33 police stations but none separately for crime. Most of the stations function out of old and dilapidated buildings making the administration difficult. “The rural police had a huge manpower shortage as only 1,945, including armed reserve policemen, were sanctioned while another 600 were required. Unless we have the manpower, it is difficult to modernise police stations,” a senior police officer said.
 
 Several tribes from villages in Thadagam and Anaikatti have to travel more than 20-40km to reach the stations. “We have asked for more stations and also various amenities,” the officer said.
 
 Several residents in the city said that police stations should always be located in prominent places for easy access.
 
 
