Veteran actor  ' son has Cameron has praised him and stepmother and actress Catherine  , grandfather Kirk for their support when he was in jail. Reportedly, Cameron, whose mother is Michael's first wife Diandra, was jailed for drug possession in 2010 and released in 2016. He is thankful that his family never gave up on him, even when he had his sentence almost doubled in 2011 after he was found trying to sell prescription pills to other inmates.

  
  
 He said, "My family never gave up on me, not for one second. Catherine is a scrapper, she is someone who came from Wales and clawed her way up to the very top through sheer talent and determination."
 
 "She never gives up on anything and she didn't quit on me. The love of my family got me through my darkest days," he added. Cameron, 39, was also visited by Zeta-Jones and Michael's children, Dylan, 17, and Carys, 14, on a regular basis so they could see the reality of his situation.
 
 'It Runs In the Family' actor said, "She didn't want to sugar-coat what I was going through. I made mistakes and there were consequences. The kids barely could remember me outside a jail setting." Kirk, who is now 101-year-old, also visited him at the Metropolitan Correctional Center in New York, until he grew too frail to travel. After that he would send "at least two letters a month" to remind him he was "not forgotten".
 
 Cameron said of Kirk, "Grandpa came and he wore shades the whole time, like a proper Hollywood star. He asked me, 'How many fights have you be in - and are you winning?' He's from tough stock." But though he was thankful for his family's support, Cameron admits his famous name didn't help him behind bars.
 
 He said, "If anything it put a target on my back. Celebrity means nothing inside. I found people I wanted to hang out with and they had my back and I had theirs. I have kept in touch with some of those guys. When you go through things in jail it bonds you in a way a war bonds men together."
 
 The 'It Runs In the Family' actor is now clean and sober and has a daughter,  , with his girlfriend  .
 
 
 
