By- Pawan Tiwari

 CHANDIGARH:   have adopted a new method of revealing corruption in the police department making anonymous complaints against their erring colleagues. In the last three days the department has received two such complaints. 
 
 One of the complaint letters has cited that some cops have not been transferred from their respective departments for many years as they have backing of some senior officers. Another complainant alleged that a cop at the crime branch has been involved with a drug peddler of Daddumajra.
 
  
  
 
 The UT director-general of police (DGP) had on Wednesday received a complaint alleging that a head constable posted at the crime branch unit of the UT police had links with a woman drug peddler of Daddumajra. The complainant further alleged that the woman also collected money from other peddlers and passed it on to the head constable, who distributed the same to other cops of the crime branch. The complainant has sought an inquiry against the head constable to verify allegations against him. 
 
 Earlier on Monday, the police department had received an anonymous complaint letter also addressed to the UT DGP to transfer the cops, who had been serving on one posting for more than 30 years. The complainant alleged that an inspector, who is also reader of the DGP, had not been transferred since 1984. Another head constable at the DIG office has never been posted outside the police headquarters since his joining. 
 
 The complainant also alleged there were several cops who had been serving in the office of senior superintendent of police (SSP) traffic and SSP UT for more than 12 years. The complainant also raised the point that these cops were recruited for working at police headquarters building only. Copy of the complaint has been sent to the offices of DGP, DIG, SSP UT, SSP traffic and SP operations.
 
 Reacting to these complaints, a senior police official said it would be better if the complainant came forward with their issues. “Sometimes, it is difficult to conduct an inquiry on anonymous complaints because some of the plaints earlier made were only to settle personal enmity.”
 
 It is not a first time that senior cops have received anonymous complaints from their its own staff against erring cops and bad practices in the department. In September last year, an anonymous complainant sent raised the matter of “cash-for-leave” in the Indian Reserve Battalion (IRB). In his complaint, an IRB constable had alleged that some of their colleagues had been paying 7,000 to 15,000 cash to senior officials for marking themselves present when they were actually on leave. The complainant had also named the constables, who paid the money and got full salary when they were on leave. SP   lal was the IRB commandant at that time.
 
 In 2016, another anonymous letter was sent to the DGP office against DSP   for misusing his powers and acquiring disproportionate assets beyond his income. The DGP had marked an inquiry to SP operations   in the matter.
 
 
