AURANGABAD: Water storage in medium and minor   in   region has depleted to 37% and 33% respectively over a period of nearly three weeks.

 These medium dams (81) and minor reservoirs (832) had 41% and 36% live storage respectively till February 25.
 
 As increase in evaporation of water from dams with the onset of summer could further decrease water in both these categories of reservoirs, there could be water scarcity in some pockets of the region during next two and a half months.
 
 On the other hand, live storage in major projects has also dipped by 5% over a period of three weeks to reach 45%.
 
 Incidentally, there has not been a uniform pattern in water situation in major dams in different districts of the region.
 
 Jayakwadi, a major irrigation project in Aurangabad district, currently has 60% live storage capacity as compared to 47% during in March last year, according to an official data available with the State Water Resources Department (WRD).
 
 Beed district has Majalgaon and Manjra as two major irrigation projects, which presently have 49% and 66% live storage. These dams had 56% and 73% live storage respectively last year.
 
 In   district,   major irrigation project has 11% stock as against 39% last year.
 
 Yeldari and Siddheshwar projects in Hingoli district have 4% and 24% live storage respectively. These reservoirs had 11% and 55% stock last year.
 
 Among other key major projects, Lower Terna (71%) and Sina Kolegaon (52%) projects from Osmanabad district and Lower Dudhna (62%) from Parbhani district have substantial water storage.
 
 Senior officials from Command Area Development Authority (CADA) said that water stock in dams across the region would be enough to cater to drinking water needs till next monsoon.
 
 “We do not sense any scarcity of drinking water in considerable areas of the region. However, those areas which are traditionally prone to water shortage could reel under scarcity. Water-related issues could be addressed with the help of canal advisory committees and other stakeholders,” senior official said.
 
 While the Rabi season is already over, some areas from the region could need water for hot weather season crops along with a few perennial crops.
 
 
 
