One Saturday morning, despite a hectic shooting schedule, reality television star  , of   and Fear Factor:   fame, took some time out to visit his alma mater, the HR College of Commerce and Economics in Churchgate, from where graduated in 2012. Originally from  , he moved to Mumbai in 2009 after completing his Class XII there. 

 Shantanu first began his acting as   on his debut show, Dil Dosti Dance. He was also a part of Desi Hoppers dance crew that went on to World of Dance Championship 2015. Read on, as he walks down the memory lane, reminiscing on college, revisiting his classrooms and going back to the place (the terrace!) that made him who he is… 
 
 “I was very shy before I came to Mumbai and when I moved here, everything was new to me. I took my own sweet time to settle in to college and get in too the groove. This is where my actual college life started — it helped me open up”
 
 “The canteen here has amazing Chinese food and we would gorge on the Triple Schezwan Rice — complete paisa vasool meal. My other favourite was the Chilly Cheese Roll from the famous sandwich stall opposite our college.   classes, we would often hangout at Marine Drive — it is a beautiful spot and just next to our college”
 
 “During my college days, I was too shy to have a girlfriend. However, there is one particular incident that stays with me till date. We were performing at a fest when a girl standing close to the stage screamed out, ‘Shantanu, I love you… Please marry me!’ Since there weren’t too many people near the stage, I could see her clearly and felt extremely awkward. Post the performance, she walked up to me and told me that she loved my performance. While she was quite excited, I was embarrassed and couldn’t say much”
 
 “Studies have always been my priority; in my final year, I scored 77 per cent. I was a diligent student; in fact, I never bunked any lectures in my first year. Eventually, as I started participating in intercollegiate festivals — Kshitij (Mithibai College), Malhar (St Xavier’s), Mood Indigo (IIT-Bombay) and Kaleidoscope (Sophia’s College for  ), among others — my attendance went down. But since I was representing the college, I would get my attendance, anyway”
 
 “This terrace is where my journey started — the auditions, the way my dancing improved, making friends — it all happened here. I was always in college, but never in the classroom. A major part of who I am today, I owe it to this space”
 
 
