NEW DELHI: A rape accused’s defence of having a walking disability and not having the strength to overpower the survivor failed to impress the  , which held him guilty. According to the court, the disability did not mean he was physically weaker than the woman.

 “There is no material (on record) that the accused was not physically able to catch hold of the prosecutrix,” said the fast-track court judge  .
 
 The woman was married to the younger brother of the accused and had alleged that she was forced to perform oral sex on the accused. She claimed that the accused lived in the same house and on one occasion asked her to be cordial with him for his wife had died, and her husband stayed in the village where he farmed. The accused wanted to exploit his survivor’s vulnerability, it was claimed, and on November 27, 2013, forced her into oral sex besides groping her. Following the incident, the woman was threatened by the accused that he would set her on fire if she went to the police.
 
 On the other hand, the amicus curiae appointed for the accused opposed the charges and argued that the survivor’s conduct did not appear to “natural” as she went to the police station instead of calling the PCR.
 
 It was also contended that the accused is a differently-abled person and has difficulty in walking properly. It was asserted that the woman is well built, so it was not practically possible for the accused to have attacked her. Another factor in the accused's defense contended that the neighbourhood was a thickly-populated one and the survivor did not raise an alarm to alert people.
 
 The victim contested another argument about the daughters of the accused being in the house at the time of the rape, but not being privy to the crime. She stressed that the daughters were in their room. Therefore, the court observed, “It is found that at the time of the incident no other family member was around the spot and the accused had occasion to commit the offence."
 
 The court found the testimony of the survivor to be “fully reliable and trustworthy”. “Therefore, the prosecutrix not raising an alarm is not unnatural because her reputation as well as reputation of her family was at stake,” held the court. The court will soon pronounce the quantum of punishment.
 
