Bhopal: Jabalpur girl Mahima Turhi Agarwal did the state and the country proud by bagging silver medal in 25M pistol women’s team junior world cup, in Sydney, Australia on Wednesday. Though she is a 10m pistol shooter and has never attempted in 25m category in the past, she grabbed the opportunity with both her hands to corner glory at the global event. A vacancy in the Indian team gave her a chance to contest and she clinched the silver medal. Jabalpur’s Gun for Glory academy shooter Mahima teamed up with Arunima Gaur and Tanu Rawal to win the covetal medal at the world cup. Mahima and her teammate Tanu had finished the qualification round at 10th and 12th plac, shooting a total of 569 and 561 points respectively. The accumulative score of the trio put them on the second spot. “This was my first ever 25M pistol event and I am glad to have finished it off with a silver medal. I was very nervous going into the range this morning but I knew if I could get my momentum going I could help my team secure a good finish. All this was possible because of my training at the GFG Academy and the way my coaches had instilled so much confidence in me,” Mahima told TOI from Sydney. Her coach Nishant Nathwani said, “There is no 25m range in Jabalpur. But, her committment encouraged us and we started working on the technique to prepare her for 25m category. I am happy that she has proved her worth at such a big event. Mahima started her practise in 2014”.  Talking about the training, Nishant said, “We worked on Mahima’s muscle memory. We used to blindfold her during the practice session so that her muscle could memorise when to shoot the target. In this way her hands started reacting even when she was not allowed to see the target.”  Prashant Jain, director GFG Jabalpur, said: "Mahima's super show in her debut 25M pistol discipline has been possible because of innovative training methods. The new techniques have helped in improvement of her muscle memory and score of 99 and 98 in rapid fire series is a world class score even though it was her debut match.” Three shooters from Gun for Glory academy – Elavenil Valarivan, Shreya Agrawal and Mahima Turhi Agarwal -- who had made the trip to Sydney for the junior world cup, finished the tournament strongly with a total of six medals, including four golds, a silver and a bronze.