GURUGRAM: A Rewari sessions court upheld a May 2017 order by the   justice board (JJB), sentencing a 17-year-old boy to three years at an observation home. The juvenile had been convicted for raping his neighbour, a mentally challenged 20-year-old girl in Mundra village of Rewari, while she had gone out to relieve herself in February 2016.

 The order was challenged by the juvenile in the sessions court, on the grounds that it had been passed without recording the victim’s statement. Additional session judge major (retired) Phalit Sharma, on February 21, upheld the JJB order, observing that in case the victim is mentally challenged, her statement is not necessary for conviction.
 
 In his statement before court, the victim’s father, who is the complainant, said at about 2pm on February 6, 2016, the girl had gone to the mustard field near their house to relieve herself. Minutes later, when he heard her cry out from the fields, he went there and witnessed the juvenile — his neighbour’s son — raping his daughter.
 
 He further said that on seeing him, the juvenile ran away. But when he brought her back home and called upon the juvenile’s family to inform them about the atrocity, the juvenile’s elder brother threatened to kill the victim if the matter was reported to police. 
 
 The victim’s family then approached police. An FIR was registered at Kosli police station of Rewari on the same day, under Section 376 ( ) of IPC, and the victim’s medico-legal examination carried out. Following procedure, the juvenile was taken into protective custody during the investigation.
 
 During the JJB’s hearings, the victim’s mother said her daughter can’t speak because of her mental disability. The juvenile’s counsel argued that the JJB had passed an order against his client solely on the basis of statements by the complainant, and prayed that the period of his stay in the special home be reduced from three years to the period already undergone in protective custody. 
 
 The court rejected this prayer, observing that the court was not inclined to take a lenient view in this case, as the boy who had raped the mentally challenged girl was over 15 years of age at the time. “Had he been a major, the sentence would have been not less than 10 years, extendable to imprisonment for life. In this case, the sentence awarded to the juvenile by the JJB is very much within parameters of law, and hence requires no interference,” observed the court.
 
 
