NEW DELHI: Chirag Dilli, best known so far as the terminating point for the now defunct Bus Rapid Transit corridor, is soon set to become an important interchange hub for   commuters in  .

 An underground station has come up near the busy Chirag Dilli intersection, which will cater to areas such as Panchsheel Enclave, Masjid Moth, Sheikh Sarai, Chirag Dilli village, DDA Colony, Krishi Vihar, etc. The station, a part of the Magenta Line (Janakpuri West-Botanical Garden), is expected to open next month.
 
 What makes Chirag Delhi metro station important is the fact that it is going to be an interchange station for the proposed   to Saket G-Block corridor of Delhi Metro’s Phase IV. The proposed corridor would then link Magenta Line with the upcoming Pink Line (Majlis Park-Shiv Vihar).
 
 
  
 While Delhi Metro stations are usually located about a kilometre apart from each other on average, the Chirag Delhi station is just 500 metres away from the upcoming Greater Kailash metro station. “Though the distance between the stations is unusually short, a station was required at Chirag Dilli keeping in mind the huge catchment area in its vicinity and the many residential areas it would provide connectivity to,” said a   official.
 
 “Apart from residential areas, the station is also close to the Jahanpanah city forest. At present, the vast green area is visited only by locals but when the metro station opens it will be accessible to people from across the city,” the official added.
 
 DMRC claimed that it has also improved the road infrastructure and geometry of Chirag Dilli intersection. “The road geometry has been changed for better traffic circulation. We have created traffic islands at the intersection, apart from two new slip roads,” said a DMRC official.
 
 One of the slip roads is on the Jahanpanah city forest side. “This slip road is meant specifically as a drop-off point for autorickshaws and other vehicles as it is near one of the entry and exit points of the station,” he said. The second slip road is on Chirag Dilli village side and has been made wider to accommodate bigger vehicles. This second slip road would also act as a drop-off point to the station.
 
 There would be a total of five entry and exit points to the station. While two entry and exit points are on the Chirag Dilli side, one each is on Panchsheel Enclave, Masjid Moth and Jahanpanah city forest side.
 
 “The station would be connected through subways from these entry and exit points and can also be used by those wanting to cross the road as these fall in the unpaid area,” the official said. The longest of these subways is the one connecting the station with Masjid Moth, which is 120 metres long.
 
 “Constructing these subways was a huge engineering challenge due to the large number of utilities that had to be shifted. Another major challenge was the foundation of the Chirag Dilli flyover, which we had to avoid,” the spokesperson said. “We had to find gaps between the foundations of the flyover’s pillars, which required extensive coordination with civic agencies,” he added.
 
 While most underground stations on this stretch of Magenta Line are at a depth of 18 metres, the Chirag Delhi station is 21 metres below the ground level. “We had to lower the alignment as there was a drain just next to the station,” the official said.
 
 The Chirag Delhi metro station is part of the 38.2km Magenta Line (Botanical Garden-Janakpuri West) of Delhi Metro. While the 12.6km section of Magenta Line between Botanical Garden and Kalkaji Mandir was opened in December last year, the remaining 25.6km section between Kalkaji Mandir to Janakpuri West is expected to be opened by March end.
 
 
