AHMEDABAD: The president of   (IJFA) –   and renowned tax consultant, Mukesh Patel, became the second Gujarati to be conferred with the coveted ‘The Order of the Rising Sun – Gold Rays with Rosette’ by the Emperor of Japan. The recognition was conferred upon Patel by the consul-general of  , Ryoji Noda, at a ceremony held at   here on Tuesday.

 The order was conferred to Patel in recognition of his contribution over decades for promoting friendly bilateral relations between India/ Gujarat and Japan on academic, business, and cultural fronts. Sharing his delight for the recognition, Patel said, “This recognition is not mine alone. It is for Gujarat and the people of this state. While it is indeed a matter of pride for me, I am equally nostalgic on how the scenario was when I started out – we only found two to three Japanese students in Gujarat and now we have 200 Japanese families in the state of which, some 150 are in Ahmedabad.”
 
 
  
 
 The recognition is the first national decoration awarded by the Japanese government. “In fact, after Mumbai, Ahmedabad is the Indian city to have highest number of Japanese families in the country,” said Patel.
 
 Businessman Jaykrishna Harivallabhdas was the first one to receive the honour way back in 1991 and it is after more than 25 years that another Gujarati has been conferred with the honour. Patel also hailed PM   for initiating various projects with Japan government. “With PM Modi partnering with the Japanese government over a number of projects, the award is all the more special as India and Gujarat is getting recognition,” added Patel. Noda also made some key announcements for Gujarat. “We will donate Rs 52 lakh to some eight villages in Banaskantha district to install water purification system. We will also partner with Lokseva Shikshan Trust,” said Noda, talking to the media.
 
 He also spoke about the bullet train project and said, “The project will be operational by 2023 on the 75th anniversary of Indian Independence.”
 
 
