NAVI MUMBAI: After a lull, illegal   in Navi Mumbai and   areas has once again resumed in places like Kihim beach at Alibaug, Savitri river at Mahad and near Juinagar railway bridge, alleged activists.

 Environmentalist Sumaira Abdulali of the   had on Thursday written letters to the Raigad district collector, Vijay Suryawanshi, and the Konkan divisional commissioner, Dr Jagdish Patil, to take stern action against illegal sand mining.
 
 “Illegal sand mining continues at the Kihim beach even now at the creek which intersects Kihim and Awas beaches. Numerous bullock carts cross the stretch at low tide and mine large quantities of sand illegally,” wrote Abdulali who also asked for a permanent solution to the illegal sand mining problem. She also stated that the level of the sand on the beach itself has dropped down by 10 to 15 feet due to illegal mining. 
 
 Another city based activist Anarjit Chauhan said, “We had complained about the illegal sand mining near Juinagar railway bridge, after which some action was taken by the district officials. However, the illegal sand miners return furtively to the site during public holidays to extract more sand, when government offices remain closed.”
 
 “Besides this, I have also been informed that illegal sand mining has resumed along the Savitri river, close to the Mahad bridge. This is highly dangerous, I 
 
 Abdulali added that illegal sand mining has resumed along the Savitri river, close to the Mahad bridge. “This is dangerous, keeping in mind the recent road bridge collapse tragedy that took place here,” she said.
 
 When TOI contacted the Raigad district collectorate, S Sutar, an official from mining department said, “We will check Kihim beach and Savitri river areas for such mining activities. At present, state government has allowed legal sand dredging in certain sections of the riverside.”
 
 He added that besides filing FIRs, the officials must also slap strong acts like MCOCA (Maharashtra control of organized crime Act) to thwart the  .
 
 
