 is not at all a tough subject to crack if you work hard from the start. Practice is the only key in solving math. Solve as many worksheets as possible.

 Students should be referring to NCERT prescribed textbook and RD  . The latter is a bit heavy, so you must seek consultation from a good, credible tutor as the book is designed for competitive exams and not for the boards.
 
 A lot of concepts in RD Sharma are absent from the board syllabus. There are 13 chapters in all and Calculus holds the maximum weightage (44 marks). But please refer to NCERT book, first and foremost. Practice the solved examples and exercises. Don’t ignore the chapter on Probability as it is very scoring and takes lesser time to attempt. Calculus is actually not as hard as it seems.
 
 There are quite a lot of repetitive questions every year. Hence, you must definitely refer to previous years’ question papers and sample papers. Oswal and All in One are good sources. There is always a compulsory graphical question, so study for that well.
 
 Good handwriting plays an extremely important role in board exams. Your paper presentation should be neat and clean. Cross checking can make a huge difference. Attempt questions with more marks first and then go for the smaller questions.
 
 If you don’t know the answer for any question, don’t just leave it. Solve till the known steps as it could fetch you marks.
 
 Try to sleep early on the night of the exam and wake up early to revise. It is crucial that you close the book one hour before the exam and be calm and composed. During the reading time, decide the order of your answers and which one you will be solving among options questions. Most importantly, be positive.
 
 The writer is a maths teacher at  
 
 Paper snapshot
 
 Exam: Maths (CBSE, XII)
 
 Exam date: March 21
 
 Duration: 3 hrs
 
 Maximum marks on paper: 70
 
 3. Expert tips:
 
 · Solve CBSE practice papers by setting a 3 hour timer.
 
 · Attempt difficult questions first
 
 · Neat and clean handwriting is very crucial
 
 Last-minute revision
 
 Revise formulae especially that of Trigonometry
 
 Revise 3D Geometry and it’s end results
 
 Go through all the formulae
 
 
