It’s been four days since ICSE (Indian Certificate of Secondary Education) results were announced, but the feeling of being the   topper, who scored 99.4%, is yet to sink in for  . In fact, he seems more surprised at the feat he has achieved. “My goal was to be the school topper,” says the 15-year-old from  , adding, “I never expected to be the national topper. Somehow, my school teachers always believed it to be possible.” 
While   is yet to enjoy his newfound success, he gets excited when talking about the preparation that went into cracking the exams. Rattling out the subjects that were easy and tough, the student from St Mary’s ICSE School, says, “Science is my favourite subject, followed by Computers and Math. I thought Geography was easy, but when I started getting ready for competitive exams, I found Science better and that really gave a boost to my confidence. The toughest were History and Civics as I had trouble memorising incidents and dates. I took classes in the neighbourhood for English as it is difficult too. While I learned poems in advance, I thoroughly read up on Shakespeare’s ‘Merchant of Venice’.” 
 
  
 Swayam managed to sail through without additional coaching classes. His best support was his family, friends and teachers. “I got tips from almost everyone,” he said, “My neighbours helped me with my Hindi. My mom is a secondary school teacher, so she would correct my practice papers, point out the errors and discuss tough topics with me. My dad is a scientist, so he helped me with Science. I would discuss my doubts with friends and teachers at school and they helped me get clarity,” he elaborated.
 If Swayam never missed his daily studies, he also did not miss his daily dose of outdoor games. “I never stopped my outdoor activities. I would go out, play badminton or football and go for cycling. I realised that by doing that I was able to comprehend and remember my studies better,” he reveals. 
 It’s not surprising that when you ask him for tips, Swayam advocates to relax with outdoor games. “Indoor games don’t help much, but outdoor games refresh your mind and body. They energise you and give you confidence.” What about social media? “I stayed away from it. I was and am active only on WhatsApp,” he says.
 With plans to continue with the ICSE board, Swayam talks about his future goals, “I would like to be a researcher in the Science stream. But I will decide that only after I complete Class 12.” 
 The ICSE topper is looking forward to the dinner celebrations with parents and friends. “I had asked my parents for a pet dog after my results, but when I saw my study books for Class 11 and 12, I gave up on the idea,” says Swayam, laughing.
 
 
