COIMBATORE: The Safai Karamchari Andolan, an NGO working for the benefit of the sanitary workers across the country, has disputed the number of deaths of manual scavengers across the country as per data submitted by Union minister of housing and urban affairs   in the  .

 The minister said that of the 323 deaths reported across the country since 1993, 144 were from Tamil Nadu.
 
 D V Samuel, state convener of Safai Karamchari Andolan, said, “In Coimbatore corporation, which claims to have not a single manual scavenger, we identified 700 workers engaged in the act.” According to him, it was not just contractual workers, the government too was employing these workers. 
 
 Commissioner of municipal administration   said, “The definition of manual scavenger is different according to the government and the NGOs. If we classify workers employed in septic tank cleaning lorries as manual scavengers, then the numbers will be higher,” he said. He added that according to them, unscientific handling of human faecal matter without any safe equipment in place and without following proper protocol is manual scavenging. “Misinterpretation of definition will cause a huge difference. If there are discrepancies, people employed as manual scavengers can always come forward and we will verify,” said Prakash.
 
 But activists said cases of manual scavenging continues to surface. On December 22, 2017, three men who were collecting gold dust particles from a gold smithery at R S Puram in Coimbatore died of asphyxiation. In March 2017, three men died in a manhole of asphyxiation in  . “If the state claims to be free of manual scavenging, why are people continuing to die every year? Many contractors and officials are also threatening these workers,” said  , an activist in Coimbatore. 
 
 Jagadeesh Hire Mani, member of the national commission for safai karamchari, said the reason for 44% of the deaths of manual scavengers in Coimbatore was the lack of awareness among workers on safety equipment. “They get paid around Rs1,000 for one such work and they undertake it. The government has to create awareness to reduce such deaths,” he said.
 
 
