Nagpur: A team of Pune police conducted a marathon seven-hour search and seizure operation at the Misal Layout residence of   on Tuesday in conection with Bhima-Koregaon violence earlier this year.

 Pune cops, who had support from city police, began operation from 6.30 am and have seized hard disks, other computer devices and some documents from Gadling’s residence. The raid was kept secret until the last moment though city police were approached for help a day ago. Some lawyer friends of Gadling too reached his home after learning about the raid at his place. Gadling had appeared as defense counsel for several known Maoist activists like GN Saibaba and others.
 
 Protesting the raids, Gadling said cops had taken away all his research material along with case files and court judgements that he had gathered over last 25 years to compile a book. “They came in 10 to 15 vehicles, it is clear they want to intimidate us for following our ideology,” he said.
 
 He said the police were not acting against Sambhaji Bhide and Milind Ekbote, who he claimed were the main culprits behind the Bhima-Koregaon violence.
 
 The action was initiated in connection with the offence of incitement registered at Vishrambagh police station in Pune in February this year against hordes of activists for their alleged role in triggering violence.
 
 Team of eight police officials had come from Pune to carry out the raid. Cops also simultaneously raided five more places including the residence of Delhi-based activist Rona Wilson. The homes of Gadling’s relative Sudhir Dhawale, his partner Harshali Potdar, activists of Republican Panther in Mumbai were also being searched.
 
 In Pune, three places of activists associated with Kabir Kala Manch were being raided by a separate team of Pune police. The searches were conducted to recover documents from the possession of the suspects whose role behind the Bhima-Koregaon violence is under scanner. The security agencies had earlier linked the activists of Republican Panther and Kabir Kala Manch with the banned outfit of CPI (Maoist).
 
 The activists of Kabir Kala Manch and Republican Panther were the key players of Elgaar Parishad rally at Pune on January 31. Police claimed the activists assembled at Elgaar Parishad rally had incited the mob. There was also a bandh observed later in protest of the violence.
 
 Indian Association of People’s Lawyer (IAPL), that has Gadling as general secretary, decried the police action claiming he was harassed despite his name not being in FIR. Gadling, who had activist and actor Veera Sathidar along with him, said he was being harassed for no reason.
 
 “I was not even a participant in the Elgar Parishad rally but had just offered some donation,” said Gadling. He charged he was targeted for being a Dalit activist.
 
 
