GHAZIABAD: The   reversing the SUV, which fell into a 10ft ditch   seven persons off NH-24 on Friday evening, was talking on the   while steering the vehicle, a relative of the passengers has said.

 The driver of the Tata Sumo, ferrying relatives of a groom to his wedding in Khoda, is on the run. Sources said the family of Ravi Rastogi, who was supposed to get married in Khoda, was 10 minutes into the journey when the accident happened in Vijay Nagar. Ravi’s father and 11 other relatives were in the   while the others were in a bus.
 
 Besides Ravi, who lost his father Om Prakash Rastogi, his brother-in-law Sonu Rastogi lost his two sons — Abhiraj (eight months) and Honey (three and a half years old). Ravi’s cousin Ramashankar, a resident of Rudrapur in Uttarakhand, lost his wife Reena (36), daughter Anshika (6) and sister Ritu (18). The seventh person who died was Ravi’s sister-in-law Madhu (26), who had come to Bareilly to attend the wedding.
 
 Six persons were injured, of whom the condition of one was said to be critical.
 
 “A silly mistake by the driver resulted in such a tragedy. Our family is shattered, my mother inconsolable. We were so happy our brother was getting married. The wedding has been put off indefinitely,” said Deepak, Ravi’s elder brother.
 
 The groom’s brother said the Sumo had been hired from a neighbour and was not in a good condition. “The vehicle wouldn’t start on its own, it needed to be pushed. The owner, Rafaqat Ali, was himself driving the SUV. He had parked the vehicle on the edge of the slope and did not switch off the ignition. He was constantly talking on the phone and lost control while reversing the Sumo. It slipped and plunged into the ditch,” Deepak said.
 
 Harpal, another relative, said though passersby and other members of the family jumped into the muck-filled   and pulled out the passengers within “10-15 minutes”, most had passed off by then.
 
 Speculation was rife that a child had moved the handbrake, causing the Sumo to slide down the slope. Police, however, ruled out such a possibility. 
 
 Ravi’s uncle Ved Prakash has lodged a police complaint against Rafaqat. An FIR has been registered under IPC Sections 279 (rash driving), 338 (causing grievous hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) and 304A (causing death by negligence).
 
 
