JAIPUR: Chittorgarh geared up for Sunday’s ‘Swabhimaan rally’ to be organised by the women of the Rajput community from   and Madhya Pradesh. 

 The   is expecting over 1,000 women from both the states.   is part of JSS. Meanwhile, the ASI has maintained that they will not allow any tampering with the historical site after Shatranis hinted at digging the   site and filling it with wood. 
 
 Nirmala Rathore of Shatrani Manch told TOI that they have received an overwhelming for the rally. "Clad in traditional dresses, we will march from the Jauhar site to the Padmini temple. Invitation for the rally has been sent to all royal families," said Rathore.
 
 The manch has also decided to tie rakhis to the cinema owners asking them to not screen movies. "I will urge the Rajput sisters across India to tie rakhis to cinema owners," said Mahendra Singh Mertiya of Shree Karni Sena, Chittorgarh. The Sena is supporting JSS in Chittorgarh. 
 
 Since the Supreme Court has stuck down the ban on the controversial film, the Rajput community in Chittorgarh is on a boil. The   will run parallel to a conference on   at Jauhar Smriti Sansthan. Historians from across the state are gathering to discuss the real story of Padmini. 
 
 Kan Singh Suwawa of JSS said, ``Supreme Court has not banned on our right to protest and hence, our protests continue. Soon we will decide our next move.’’ TOI learnt that JSS is likely to give a call of indefinite closure of Chittorgarh from January 24. 
 
 Meanwhile, the ASI office at Chittorgarh fort is on high vigil after they have learnt that Rajputs will dig the Jauhar Sthal, threatening to perform self-immolation on January 24. "We were directed to keep a check of all the places in the fort which are related to the Padmini episode," said an ASI official. By Saturday evening, more than 200 women had arrived from Madhya Pradesh to participate in the rally.
 
 The district administration has made elaborate arrangements to avert any untoward incident in the city. Inderjeet Singh, collector of  , said, “The local leaders have conveyed that Swabhiman rally on Sunday will remain peaceful and it is a symbolic march from one place to another. Police have been directed to make elaborate arrangements taking Sarve Samaj people together for ensuring law and order situation in the city.” Police said that they are keeping a close watch on the self-immolation bid and are in touch with the   to avoid any unlawful act. 
 
 
