Pimpri Chinchwad: Rashtriya Shramik Aghadi, a workers’ organisation, has demanded that the contractors or the civic body pay Rs 65.16 crore to contractual workers by June 20 as per the interim order of the high court.

 Yashwant Bhosale, president of the organisation, said on Thursday that 572 workers will be benefitted if the payments are made as directed by the court. “The amount of Rs 65.16 crore includes the salary difference of Rs 16.80 crore and 18% interest for 15 years from 2005. The interim order has been given on a contempt of court petition filed in the high court. The next hearing will be on June 20," he added.
 
 He said a petition was filed in the high court in 2001 against   for making the contractual safai karmacharis permanent and giving them salaries as per the law. 
 
 “The high court, in its final order in 2004, said the workers be kept in service even if the contractors are changed and that they be given salaries based on equal work equal payment order given by the additional commissioner of labour department. It directed that the salary difference from 1998 to 2004 of Rs 16.80 crore be paid," he added.
 
 PCMC challenged the high court order in the Supreme Court and obtained a stay. The civic body removed all these workers from the service. The Supreme Court on January 12, 2016 upheld the high court order and rejected the petition of the civic body. 
 
 “We have been conducting a follow-up with the PCMC for implementing the verdict to ensure that the workers are given their dues and 572 workers are made permanent. A contempt petition was filed in High Court after these efforts proved futile,” Bhosale said.
 
 The interim order states, “The counsel for the municipal corporation submits that the corporation shall make sincere endeavour to call upon the contractors and ... make the payment either through the contractors or by itself as expeditiously as possible. In case the payments are not being made ... we shall be constrained to order for personal presence of the commissioner.”
 
 Assistant commissioner Chandrakant Indulkar said The civic body will abide by the court order. 
 
 
