Surat: “Many irrigation schemes exist for farming, but comprehensive projects that were required to meet the needs of agriculture are missing. We need to develop irrigation systems using sensor system and aquifer mapping besides other modern technologies,” professor of landscape architecture at Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) in the United States James Wescoat Jr said here on Monday.

 “It is interesting to study the irrigation technology specifically developed for the Mughal Gardens in New Delhi. I like to study these irrigation networks to understand how they can be used in the present times,” Wescoat Jr told TOI. He was in the city to deliver a lecture at Auro University and also share his knowledge with the students and others. 
 
 Faculty at MIT under Aga Khan Program for Islamic Architecture Wescoat Jr is currently working with Maharashtra government in over 2,000 villages to develop an efficient irrigation network. He is also studying heritage irrigation networks of Jamnagar, Junagadh and other cities of Gujarat. He seemed impressed with the irrigation networks of Bidar in Karnataka and Nagaur in Rajasthan.
 
 He expressed concern over the depleting groundwater and wanted the government to take necessary action to control the privately-owned water management networks. “Major irrigation projects are run by the government, while wells and local projects are developed by people themselves. In the absence of sufficient water supply, people are drawing water from borewells without any checks. The water level is going down because of this. We should use modern technologies to regulate this activity,” he said.
 
 He shared an interesting fact about how exchange of knowledge had taken place between planners of California, a state in the US, and Punjab. “Punjab model of irrigation network had helped planners of California in the past since the plains of both the places are almost similar. Similarly, the US technology had been used in the fields of Punjab,” Wescoat Jr said.
 
 
