Coimbatore: The counselling for undergraduate courses offered by the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University (TNAU), its 14 constituent colleges and 26 affiliated private colleges across the state would go online from this year, said TNAU vice-chancellor K Ramasamy on Monday. “The university had been receiving applications online for the past four years. From this year, the counselling process would also go online. This would make it easy for students from across the state as they will not have to come to Coimbatore to attend TNAU counselling,” Ramasamy said. He said TNAU has introduced sliding system in counselling from this year, where a student can opt for a course on the top of his priority list if that falls vacant. Students can change their priority when the online counselling is in progress, said Ramasamy. The online application process will start on May 18 and go on till June 17. Document verification for special reservations will be held from June 18 to June 20. The rank list will be published on June 22. Counselling for special reservation will be held on July 7, which will be a face-to-face counselling. The counselling would be held in two phases -- the first phase from July 9 to July 13 and the second phase from July 23 to July 27. Both will be online. Ramasamy said as directed by the Centre, three faculties at the university will be upgraded to colleges. “The faculties of plant molecular biology and biotechnology, sericulture and agri business would be upgraded into colleges from this year,” he said. There are 3,422 seats for agriculture, science and technology courses offered by the TNAU, its constituent and affiliated colleges. Of these, 65% will be filled through the state quota and the rest 35% will be filled by the colleges, only from the list of students who apply online in the TNAU portal. Also, the Indian Council for Agricultural Research (ICAR) would fill 15% supernumerary seats for the four accredited courses - BSc (Hons) Agriculture, BSc (Hons) Horticulture, BSc (Hons) Forestry and BTech Agricultural Engineering through the All India Entrance Examination for Admission (AIEEA) for UG courses. This 15% quota seats will be filled only in eight constituent colleges of TNAU. The application fee is Rs 600 for general candidates and Rs 300 for SC, SC (Arundhathiyar) and ST candidates. TNAU officials said the demand for agricultural courses had been growing in the past years. The number of applications which was 29,842 in 2015-2016, went up to 36,316 in 2016-2017. In 2017-2018, the number of applications surged to 48,996.