NAGPUR: The   (MMC) is continuing to unmask fraudulent degrees in the   ( ) scam. After suspending the license of 20 doctors, one permanently, and the others for 1-5 years, the MMC has recorded the statements of 36 students.

 Sources in MMC said that the council called 53 students whose degrees appeared to be faulty for a hearing on Saturday. Of these only 36 turned up. The documents of these students have been taken up for scrutiny. It is learnt that 10-12 students are from Vidarbha. Of the students who attended the hearing, six insisted that their degrees were authentic.
 
 Action against the students with fraudulent documents can be taken only when the entire 18-member MMC meets next. The council meets six times in a year. At present, the MMC is only investigating the degrees of students who passed the examination in 2015.
 
 Doctors from the city and region told TOI that they met union minister Nitin Gadkari on Sunday at Nagpur and appraised him about the issue. They also requested him not to attend the convocation ceremony of CPS scheduled on Wednesday at Mumbai, as the degrees were under scanner and already over 20 degrees have been found to be fake. Gadkari and finance minister   have been invited to the convocation. State doctors and IMA members fear that if these ministers attend the function it will give a wrong signal to society.
 
 The issue came to fore in January 2016 when the MMC registrar found some faults in the certificates and mark sheets copies submitted to obtain the ‘registered medical practitioner’ or   certificates for additional qualifications. Detailed list of candidates failed in CPS diploma was procured officially from CPS in February 2016. On scrutiny, 20 degrees were observed to be fraudulent, and the degree holders were sent notices for explanation. Statements by them said they were contacted by Dr  , who charged Rs5 lakh to pass them in exams. Dr Nyati was called for an explanation but he didn’t come, and so MMC cancelled his registration first.
 
 
