ROHATK: Traders in state will now be able to get ownership rights is they are legal occupant of a shop for more than 20 years, and would even get a rebate on the collector rate for registry of shops. In addition, compensation for loss of stock and buildings and free-of-cost accidental insurance cover is also on cards for them.

 In an attempt to woo traders ahead of the 2019 state assembly polls, chief minister   on Sunday announced these sops for the community in a businessmen meet here. While addressing ‘Virat Vyapari Sammelan’ in   on Sunday, Khattar said traders would be provided security, CCTV cameras would be installed in markets and committees would be constituted to redress their grievances at the district level.
 
 The CM said compensation ranging from Rs 5 lakh to Rs 25 lakh (under compensation policy) for loss of stock and buildings and free-of-cost accidental insurance cover of Rs 5 lakh would be provided to all the traders.
 
 In both cases, premium would be paid jointly by the   government and the  . All traders who register themselves with the board would get the cover, he added.
 
 In addition, 20% rebate will be given on the collector rate for registry of shops. Legal occupants of shops for more than 20 years would be made eligible for ownership rights and registry of their shops would be done as per the current rates.
 
 Regarding resolving issues pertaining to the Goods and Service Tax (GST), CM said the demands would be processed through GST Council, the nodal authority for such issues. Similarly, their demands relating to increase in load carrying capacity of vehicles would also be sent to the central government.
 
 “Having been in the trading business for more than eight years, I can very well understand the problems faced by the traders,” he said assuring them that all issues would be resolved under a one-time settlement scheme.
 
 The state was constantly working towards providing clean and safe environment for the traders, he said, adding that earlier traders were held to ransom by criminals having political connections. But the present government had given them safe environment for their prosperity, he claimed.
 
 
