PATIALA: Already reeling under financial crisis,   (PRTC) might have to face more difficulties as a panel of retired   judges appointed by the   had recently ordered the   to return Rs 28 crore including interest to a private company which was given the task for construction of a new bus stand.

 The private company however failed to come up with the new bus stand at Rajpura road in the district for which the PRTC had allotted the land to the company. However, the company cited reasons of encroachment at some parts of the land allotted by PRTC.
 
 It is learnt that the 8-acre land was first allotted in 2006 by PRTC to the private company but the project did not materialise after the SAD-BJP government took control of Punjab. However, in 2009 a fresh proposal was made according to which the same company was allotted 18 acres of land to come up with a new bus stand along with a commercial market within a period of one year. 
 
 “The company paid Rs 10 crore as bank guarantee and Rs 13.5 crore as its first instalment to PRTC but failed to come up with the bus stand. The government decided to forfeit the company’s bank guarantee along with its first instalment as it had failed to meet the promise of bus stand as per the agreement. The company then challenged the government’s decision in the high court, after which a three-member panel was formed to decide over the matter. We have been communicating with our legal cell and soon will challenge the decision of the three-member panel in the court. We will first try to get the stay orders over it,” said PRTC managing director  .
 
 He added that the company owner had tabled his pleas before the bench stating PRTC had failed to provide him the possession of the land within a stipulated time besides getting the maps of the proposed land approved. Narang claimed that the company’s owner made another plea saying that encroachments over the land could not be removed by PRTC and some cases related to the 8-acre land were pending in the court. Narang, however, added that there was no case pending on the proposed land for the bus-stand.
 
 
