NEW DELHI: An 18-year-old   student was arrested for mowing down a pedestrian on his   car near   on Wednesday. The youth, identified as  , was later released on bail. 

 The incident took place on Wednesday afternoon when Saini was returning home from his college. The victim, Shivender (50), worked as a daily wage labourer and lived on the streets. 
 
 Footage from a CCTV camera, accessed by TOI, shows Shivender, wearing a long kurta, attempting to cross the road. As he is walking towards the road, a red BMW hatchback is seen approaching at high-speed. The victim, seeing the car, makes a dash to cross the road but is hit by the car. He crashes on the car’s bonnet and windshield, before falling off on the road. 
 
 The footage shows the car stopping for a few seconds, before fleeing from the crime scene. Passersby are also seen shouting at the car driver as he speeds away. Confirming the developments, DCP (north) Jatin Narwal said that the vehicle was coming from   market. Saini has been charged under sections of rash driving and causing death due to negligence. His father,  , is a businessman from Punjabi Bagh area in west Delhi. 
 
 Police officers said that following the accident, the victim was rushed to a nearby hospital, where he later succumbed to his injuries. During inspection of the crime scene, a three-foot long part of the car, which had broken off during the collision, was recovered by the police. Cops sought information about the part from manufacturers and over 500 cars of the same make was checked in Delhi-NCR. 
 
 The information received from the broken part, along with the CCTV footage, helped cops nab Saini two days later. He was taken for a medical examination to check for his blood alcohol levels. The report, however, came negative. 
 
 During interrogation, Saini told cops that he came back to accident site later to check the condition of the victim, but did not find anyone there. As he was inquiring about the accident, vagabonds at the spot started abusing and threatening him, following which he panicked and fled. 
