HYDERABAD: The Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO) stepped in to curb misuse of oxytocin by dairy owners and farmers to extract more milk from milch animals. CDSCO has come out with proposals to stop abuse of oxytocin injections and issued a public notice seeking comments before March 15.

  of India,  , said: “The proposals include prohibiting oxytocin and its formulations for human use as well as animal use under the Drugs and Cosmetics Act, regulating and restricting oxytocin formulations for human consumption so that the drug is supplied only to registered hospitals and clinics in public and private sector.”
  
  
 
 The proposals also include adopting a bar-coding system for manufactures of oxytocin formulations to track and trace the product to prevent its misuse. Manufacturing of oxytocin formula is to be restricted to public sector units only. The proposals are not applicable for oxytocin meant for export.
 
 Though oxytocin is included in Schedule H of the drugs list, it is sold in Telangana over the counter without any prescription from a medical practitioner. The rules framed in 2014 state that formulations meant for veterinary use shall be sold only to veterinary hospitals, but they are being illegally sold to dairy industries and dairy farmers. 
 
 Following the violations across the country, the Himachal Pradesh High Court has issued orders to consider the feasibility of restricting the manufacture of oxytocin only to public sector companies. The Ministry of Health has also asked the department of pharmaceuticals to curtail the production of oxytocin in Karnataka Antibiotics and Pharmaceuticals Limited located in Bengaluru.
 
 Oxytocin has uterinecontracting ability during labour and helps in milk-ejection. Experts say the milk produced with artificially induced oxytocin has harmful effects on humans, including exhaustion and loss of energy, and pregnant mothers and children should avoid such milk.
 
 
 Oxytocin is misused in horticulture industry too. It is used by horticulture farmers to plump up watermelons, cucumbers, gourds and Brinjals. Despite several measures taken by Drugs Controller General of India, Oxytocin is still being widely used in Telangana and other states. CDSCO top officials held a meeting on February 22 with Oxytocin manufacturers and discussed the ways to curb the misuse of oyxotcin formulation, instead of complete ban. Section 10 A and 26 A of the Drugs and Cosmetics Act deals with regulation and restriction of drugs.
 
  move, drug manufacturers said the manufacturing can’t be restricted to Public Sector Units and warned that too many restrictions will affect the availability of the drug for medical use. According to health reports, women in rural areas died due to non-availability of drug. Manufactures further said there are no proper guidelines for   for veterinary purpose and asked the government to frame proper guidelines and control the supply chain.
 
