Pune: An unprecedented 125 criminals from 19 gangs were booked under the Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act (MCOCA) in 2017 in Pune taking it to the top of the table in the state for registration of cases under MCOCA and Maharashtra Prevention of Dangerous Activities (MPDA) Act. 

 Police commissioner Rashmi Shukla said it would prevent organized criminal activity in the city. 
 
 Thane comes second with 15 cases, Navi Mumbai and Nagpur are third with eight cases each, Mumbai was fourth with five cases and Aurangabad ranked fifth with two cases under MCOCA in 2017, she said.
 
 As many as 30 detentions were made under the MPDA Act as against 25 such detentions in 2016 in Pune. 
 
 "All our preventive detentions have been upheld by the state advisory board and the government," she said. 
 
 Nagpur stands second in detaining 27 criminals and Solapur stands third in detaining 13 criminals. 
 
 Nine detentions were made in Thane, eight in Mumbai and five in Aurangabad.
 
 The MCOCA action particularly targeted four gangs involved in chain-snatching, nine gangs involved in economic crimes and one each in drug peddling and immoral trafficking activities, Shukla added. 
 
 A total of 280 criminals on record were externed from Pune city limits as against 135 in 2016, she added. 
 
 An additional commissioner is the competent authority to grant permission to invoke MCOCA while the police commissioner is the competent authority to grant permission to file a chargesheet under MCOCA. 
 
 Deputy commissioner of police (crime) Pankaj Dahane said, “We have taken action against 19 gangs under MCOCA after investigations in serious crimes have revealed that they are members of an organised crime syndicate. The stringent preventive action taken against the gangs is one of the reasons responsible for reducing crime rate in the city.”
 
 Retired additional director general of police Rajendra Sonawane said,“After the chargesheet is filed under MCOCA, the suspects should be tried and punished instantly, but that is not happening because of cases pendening before the court. There is no rise in conviction cases under the stringent law.”
 
 
