Ravi Jadhav’s directorial venture  , written by Sachin Kundalkar, has been in the news ever since its name was announced. However, it was after the film was denied entry into the International Film Festival of India (IFFI) last year that curiosity around it reached a high. From then onwards began the filmmakers’ struggle to obtain certification from the Central Board of Film Certification (CBFC). The struggle ended on Thursday with the   review committee, headed by actress  , giving the film an ‘A’ certificate without suggesting any cuts.

 A controversial film being passed without any cuts has become a rarity in recent times and Jadhav agrees. In fact Nude received a standing ovation from the review committee, shares Jadhav. “We were expecting an ‘A’ certificate but were worried about the cuts that would’ve been suggested. When it was announced that there won’t be any cuts, I was pleasantly surprised and relieved. The members of the committee were standing and clapping after watching the film. Vidya Balan walked up to me and said that we’ve made a very beautiful film which is not vulgar in any way,” informs the director.
 
 However, the process of reaching here wasn’t a smooth one. Nude was denied entry into IFFI and the I&B Ministry reasoned that the film was ‘technically incomplete’. Jadhav feels there was some miscommunication there. He says, “After IFFI, we were supposed to screen the film at the Kerala International Film Festival (KIFF). Films screened at KIFF required a CBFC certification and we had already applied for the same. The fest organisers were very supportive and waited till the end for the film to be screened, but we couldn’t get a certificate then.” He informs that many of the people who viewed the film for certification then were of the opinion that it shouldn’t be given a certificate at all. “The remaining wanted cuts in the film,” adds Jadhav.
 
 
  
 
 Fortunately, the review committee had a different approach. “I have never had such an experience for any of my films earlier. However, I respect Prasoon Joshi (CBFC chief) as a creative person and was hopeful of a positive outcome. Thankfully, that happened,” shares Jadhav.
 
 Though the filmmaker is happy with the outcome, he expresses sorrow over the way artistic freedom is being taken for granted today. He says, “It’s really sad what we’ve been seeing of late. I think once the CBFC certifies a film, no one can stop it from being screened. I am happy that the Supreme Court directed the four states to lift the ban on  , but the very fact that filmmakers have to approach the judiciary for demanding their rights is very disheartening.” 
 
 At the same time, he acknowledges the support filmmakers are getting from the public. “The general public and media have stood behind all films that’ve run into controversies with the CBFC. I think that speaks a lot. Ultimately, it is the viewers who will judge a film. So, let them watch it and decide,” he concludes.
 
 
  
 
