LUCKNOW: Your favourite social networking site, Facebook, is fast turning into a platform to malign, blackmail and settle scores in the city. Hazratganj cyber cell is flooded with complaints not only of harassment through   posts, but also cases of house evictions, extortion, conning gullible with job promises and fake sale offers and also ghost holiday packages.

 
 Cyber-cell officials said while three to four cases of harassment are reported every 24 hours, from January this year, a new trend has emerged with at least 200 complaints lodged on people using Facebook to con and intimidate.
 
 Inspector cyber cell Arun Kumar Singh said unique ways are being adopted by muggers to harass people and it takes an effort to crack the case and arrest guilty.
 
 “Recently to get his house vacated, a businessman   created a fake Facebook page of his 45-year-old woman tenant to defame her. He posted her morphed photos with obscene remarks. Shukla was later arrested. Again, an accountant of a private bank, Amrendra Agarwal, was arrested for harassing his niece by blackmailing her on Facebook,” said Singh.
 
 Police also revealed that a case of selling   phones is under probe. In this case, a man from Rajasthan befriended a girl from Lucknow and planned to sell a latest version of i-phone at 60% discount. The girl was asked to pay via Paytm. She made the payment, but did not get the phone. Another couple has complained they were offered a deal on Facebook with promise of a honeymoon package at cheap rates for Singapore trip. The couples were asked to make payments in three instalments, after which they were to get the tickets. After coughing up the amount, the Facebook handle suddenly vanished. The case is still under investigation.
 
 In a unique case, a man took to Facebook to paste a photo of his neighbour, who was not allowing space to park his car. However, the neighbor moved cyber-cell in protest. After negotiations, the matter was settled.
 
 Nodal officer of cyber-cell   said, “People must report to us about fake profiles and business deals.” Mishra also said terrorists also keep a watch and it is advisable not to add unknown people in your friend list on Facebook.
 
