 Excerpts:

 
 
 
 
 This hit surprised us. In January, in the first week of the quarter, before we announced our Q3 results, one of our clients hit bankruptcy and in the last week of the quarter, another one was hit by bankruptcy. That has elongated our journey, but we have a strong order book. We have to overcome Q1, and from Q2 onwards, we will be back to growth. We are doing very well in BFSI and manufacturing & technology and in energy. There is a bit of softness in utilities. The consumer business has had headwinds but it will improve going forward. In the communications business, we have a new leader and he is reorienting the business a little bit. 
 
 
 
 HPS services those people who enroll for Obamacare. Our customers are insurance firms or the payers, and there is lack of clarity whether the US government will give them subsidy or not. There are places where you go and register for Obamacare. Some of those were shut down. This creates uncertainty for insurance companies around whether to continue to provide policies under Obamacare. So some companies withdrew. A new legislation was expected to bring clarity. But that did not come. And this year, if you look at the legislative agenda of the US Congress, it’s not on the agenda. When insurance companies withdraw, we lose a customer.
 
 
 
 We are a long term player. There is a clearly articulated strategy internally and for the investor of how we see Wipro in the future. We are working towards it. I wouldn’t see it in terms of size or rank, but it’s the value creation we are focused on. We have reported our six strategic levers and that has progressed on every count.
 
 
 
 We are very strong in the communications business in India, Middle East and Africa, and in all the three places, we are seeing headwinds. Aircel is just one of them. In the Middle East we saw some communication projects ending and we haven’t seen replenishment of that. There is a major issue with one of our customers in Africa and they discontinued a large programme we are running. We have been hit in all the three geographies.
 
 
 
 Excluding the one-time impact (of bankruptcies), we are in a very narrow range. When there is a revenue headwind, we will have a margin headwind. We will continue to see positive to flat margin trends. The good news is the offerings we have – digital, consulting and modernization – are doing well. Second, futuristic investment in digital, innovation and   is doing well. Third, our investment in in Holmes, automation and cost take out will give market leadership. 
 
 
