NAGPUR: To celebrate International Mother’s Day in a unique way, Tamanna Events and Entertainment in association with Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC), organized a musical ‘Ashi Aste Aai’ at Bhat Hall, Reshimbagh, on Sunday.

 Renowned artistes of city presented songs based on the theme ‘mother’. The show began with an audio-visual on ‘Aisi Hoti Hai Maa’ which moved hearts of the audience. A beautiful poetry on mother’s love for her children, was rendered by Aasif Khan.
 
 Singer Shrushti Barlewar delighted the crowd with some mesmerizing songs like ‘Meri maa’, ‘Lori suna phir se’, ‘Ekti ekti ghabarlis na’. Followed by her renditions were Shreya Kharabe’s on ‘Maay Bhavani’, ‘Paas bulaati hai’ and ‘Tu kitni achhi hai’ which enthralled one and all. 
 
 Farhan Sabri, an upcoming Bollywood singer, attracted the audience’s attention with hits like ‘Sandese aate hain’, ‘Luka chhupi’, ‘Maa tujhe salaam’. Duets ‘Usko nahi dekha humne kabhi’, ‘Aisa kyun maa’, ‘Yeh bandhan toh pyar ka bandhan hai’ made all the mothers walk down memory lane with these old hits.
 
 Addressing the gathering on the occasion, mayor Nanda Jichkar said, “A mother is always busy worrying about her child. She cannot be selfish. It's is only because of her selfless love and care, that her spirit is celebrated worldwide. No one can understand her feelings.” 
 
 Zaid Ali, an 11-year-old artist and ‘Rising Star’ fame beautifully rendered the song ‘Maayi teri chunariya lehrayi’ followed by ‘Maa tujhe salam’ which added magic to the event.
 
 Bollywood and local singers Kharabe, Barlewar, Sabri captivated the audience with their enchanting performances.
 
 Musical accompaniment was provided by   on guitar, Atharva Kulkarni on keyboard, Kunal Shende on drums, Swapnil on saxophone,   on octopod, Pankaj on dholak and tabla.
 
 QUOTES
 
 The programme beautifully portrayed the struggles of a mother. It’s a great tribute to mothers
 
 Ratnawala Wadgaokar | self employed
 
 The concert made me feel nostalgic. Shruti Barlewar’s rendition on ‘Meri maa’ was my favourite
 
 Jayshree Bhojne | Homemaker
 
 The event was like a soulful experience for me. All singers did a great job
 
  | retired govt employee
 
 
