NEW DELHI: She would dress up as a man, stand at secluded places in east and northeast Delhi and rob students and businessmen. This 22-year-old used a surgical blade to scare her victims and would flee the crime spot on a scooter. Her crime run finally ended after she was tracked down and arrested by cops after getting her description from two of her victims.

 The woman,   alias Cheera, is a trained dancer. She is married to a woman and had been in a live-in relationship with another woman. Confirming her arrest, joint CP (eastern range) Ravindra Yadav said that police are yet to ascertain the number of crimes she has committed.
 
 On Wednesday morning, Sonia targeted two schoolchildren in Karawal Nagar and robbed a new cellphone from them. TOI spoke to the father of one of the victims, Moolchand Pal, a businessman. “My son Manish and his friend Manoj were returning home after tuitions when they were attacked by the woman in  . That took this route every day. They didn’t realise that a woman had robbed them,” he said.
 
 According to the police statement, the attack happened while Manish was playing a game on the new phone. “My father had bought a new Vivo handset and I had downloaded a few interesting games on it. I wanted to show them to my friend Manoj,” said Manish.
 
 While crossing a sweet shop in Ambika Vihar, the children noticed a “man” standing in a corner. “The man suddenly pounced on us and asked us for our belongings. He had a heavy voice. As it was my father’s phone, I tried to hide it behind my back. The person then whipped out a surgical blade and threatened to slash my throat,” the victim said.
 
 The robber then grabbed Manoj by the collar after which a scared Manish handed over the phone. The assailant then sped off on a scooter parked nearby.
 
 The victims raised an alarm and called the PCR. “A team reached the spot and took the appearance details from the victims. An FIR was also registered,” said DCP (northeast) Ajit Singla.
 
 The stolen phone was tracked to a house in C-Block of Ambika Vihar. Local intelligence was used to nab the suspect. CCTV footage from the area also helped in the probe. The accused woman first denied her involvement, but confessed to the crime when confronted with the victims. The phone and surgical blade were recovered from her house.
 
 Sonia told police that she took to crime to make a quick buck. She was facing a cash crunch and needed to support the two women she was in a relationship with, police said. She was produced in court on Thursday and sent to judicial custody.
 
 
  
 
 
