Kanyakumari: District collector Sajjan Singh R Chavan’s efforts to convince people from coastal villages and those opposing the port projects in Kanyakumari district failed on Monday. The meeting was following failed attempts by the district collector and officials from Thoothukudi VOC Port Trust, the nodal agency for the proposed port project at Kanyakumari, to enter the place for a survey twice last month. In the last incident, the protesters even held the collector hostage for a few hours. The administration had decided to organise a meeting to explain the stake holders the pros of the project and seek permission to conduct the survey. While less than 20 people from the immediate coastal villages concerned were invited for the meeting, they refused to participate unless more than 20 other environmental experts were allowed to attend the meeting. During the close to two-and-a-half-hour long meeting, villagers and environmentalists categorically responded to the administration on the reasons for which they would not allow the project to take off anywhere in the district. Chairman of Conservation of Nature Trust, Nagercoil, R S Lal Mohan said that the entire stretch where the port has been proposed is an eco-sensitive zone.  “Officials say it is not an eco-sensitive zone. But it has an estuarine system, salt pans, mudflats, turtle egg laying, sand dunes and other factors due to which we oppose it,” he said. “The Centre for Indian Ocean Studies in Hyderabad had written to the Ministry of Environment and Forest in 2009 that there is soil erosion and soil accretion at Kovalam, Kanyakumari and Keela Manakudi (where the port has now been proposed). The report added that no port or construction should come there,” Lal Mohan added. Stake holders and environmentalists also claimed that persons with vested interests were trying to divide the people opposing the project on religious and communal grounds. They said that people from the coastal areas and inland were united and will strongly oppose the port project. The district collector had said that the port would have round-the-clock radar surveillance up to 500 nautical miles from the port. This according to him this will ensure safety of fishermen engaged in deep sea fishing and pave way for speedy rescue in case of cyclone or other natural calamities. He added that the port at Kanyakumari will also be instrumental in strengthening the nation’s safety. The collector also said that the port would bring economic prosperity to the district and Tamil Nadu and sought cooperation from the people to conduct the survey, but in vain. V Vishnu the officer on special duty for Enayam Port and Superintendent of Police of Kanyakumari District N Shreenatha were among officials who took part in the meeting.