NEW DELHI: In what could be the biggest cash   from   in the last few years, investigations have begun in a case in which at least   was “stolen” from several ATMs in  .

 A case was filed on Tuesday evening at Janakpuri police station by the firm that replenished cash in the ATMs. Two employees of the firm who have been absent from duty since February 24 are the prime suspects. DCP (west) Vijay Kumar confirmed the developments to TOI.
 
 Senior officials of the firm told police that the employees were given a call when they didn’t report to work, but their phones were found switched off.
 
 The scam came to the fore during an audit on Monday when logs of the machine’s vaults were analysed by the cash firm, sources said. An internal inquiry was conducted and it unravelled the misappropriation.
 
 The suspects targeted at least eight ATMs and siphoned cash over a period of time, a preliminary probe has indicated. The staffers had been tasked with keeping account of the cash on a particular route and had access to the codes and keys to the cash vaults of those ATMs. It is learnt that most of the ATMs were of government banks.
 
 Sources said that the suspects may have connived with cash custodians of another private firm and some outsiders to siphon the cash. Police have sought details of all sister firms from the company that lodged the complaint.
 
 CCTV footage showed the prime suspects walking out of their Janakpuri office, but without any bags. Cops are also analysing their call records to ascertain the identity of their accomplices. It is suspected that the duo has fled the city with the cash. Other employees are also being quizzed.
 
 In 2017, many cases of thefts at ATMs had come to the fore. In most cases, employees of the cash replenishing firm were the perpetrators.
 
 In September 2017, several ATMs in Malviya Nagar and adjoining areas were targeted in which the suspects fled with over Rs 35 lakh. They had been stealing cash after demonetisation when ATMs were being recalibrated for new currency notes. The miscreants had tried to pass off the theft as a technical glitch.
 
 Similarly, an employee of a cash replenishment firm fled from Ambience Mall in Gurgaon with Rs 1 crore that was to be put into ATMs. A similar incident was reported from Shakarpur in east Delhi as well where the ATM custodian fled with around Rs 9 lakh.
 
 
