CHENNAI: Five years after the Centre ushered in a legislation to prevent   of women at workplaces, only 1,317 of the several lakh setups in   – spanning organised and unorganised sectors – have established an internal mechanism to address the issue, according to   data.

 Officials in the social welfare department, the nodal centre for implementing the Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act said although more companies may have an   (ICC), the state had information of around 1,300 establishments, at least 98% of which are from the organised sector. 
  
 
 According to the 2013 Act, organisations with more than 10 employees must have an ICC,If not, the employer can be fined up to Rs 50,000. For establishments with less than 10 employees, a   (LCC) headed by the district collector.
 
 Internal or local committees must submit an annual report to the employer and the District Social Welfare Officer (DSWO). “It is only recently that companies have begun informing about the formation of the internal committee,” said an official in the department. The government, she says, issues advertisements once in four months, urging establishments to intimate the department. “ Companies say they do report incidents to the DSWO, but letters have returned undelivered and there is poor government monitoring.
 
 According to recent data submitted by the department to the Centre, 83 cases of sexual harassment at the workplace have been reported in TN since 2015 to ICCs and LCCs. But status of these cases is unknown. Demanding or requesting sexual favours is not the only kind of sexual harassment the act recognises, it also includes verbal or non-verbal conduct of a sexual nature, showing pornography and physical contact.
 
 Representatives of the Confederation of Indian Industry, the largest industrial body that has more than 1,200 members in TN, said almost all large-scale manufacturing and IT companies had a mechanism to address sexual harassment. “ Our concern now is the implementation of the act in micro, small and medium enterprises (MSME),” said Madhu Vasanthy, head of CII’s Indian Women Network. 
 
  The social welfare department is trying to fill that gap, and has relaunched the online complaint management system Sexual Harassment Electronic Box (SHe-Box) for registering complaints, they have also set up 16 information centres in collectorates across TN to guide women.
 
 
