CHANDIGARH: The Chandigarh Commission for Protection of Child Rights on Monday directed Mount Carmel School to accept fees as per 2016-17 structure and not to charge any late fee from parents whose children were denied roll numbers for board exams. The school had been demanding hiked fees along with late fine, despite the district court issuing a stay order. 

 The commission gave its verdict after hearing both, parents and school authorities. School authorities along with their counsel and parents with members of   ( ) were present.
 
 Nitin Goyal president of Chandigarh Parents Association, said, "The principal of Mount Carmel School personally appeared before the   alongwith her advocate and stated that they will now accept the fees according to session 2016-17 without charging any late fees."
 
 Gurpreet Katwal, president of MCPA, said, "The commission finally heard us. The parents had been writing cheques and were trying to pay the fees as per the previous fee structure but the school officials refused to accept it and instead returned the cheques by hand. After taking into consideration the arguments of both the parties, commission directed the school to not levy late fees and also accept fees as per the old structure."
 
 The school issued the roll numbers to the students as per the message they had sent to parents on Monday following a complaint that the parents filed with CCPCR on Friday.
 
 The parents voiced their concerns with school authorities in this regard on Thursday. Thereafter, four parents submitted written complaints to president of MCPA,   on Friday. In the complaint, parents stated that they had sent the fee to the school by speed post but the school demanded hiked amount and denied admit cards to their wards.
 
 "The students are stressed because they don't have any admit cards. Subsequently, a complaint was filed with CCPCR following which school agreed to issue the roll number of the students studying in class X and XII," Katwal said.
 
  The school refused to comment on the directions of commission to not charge late fees and accept fees as per the old structure.
 
 
