WASHINGTON: The summit of the Koreas eclipsed the informal Modi-Xi meeting in Wuhan, China with US observers from President Trump onwards in thrall of the dramatic thaw in one of the most hostile borders in the world ahead of the engagement between the world’s two most populous countries.

 
 Trump, credited with a dynamic North Korea outreach that may have encouraged its reclusive leader Kim Jong-un to emerge from behind the last iron curtain and bring his country out of isolation, tweeted his optimism tinged with caution while ignoring the Modi-Xi talks.
 
 ''After a furious year of missile launches and Nuclear testing, a historic meeting between North and   is now taking place. Good things are happening, but only time will tell!'' Trump tweeted as US television and social media were flooded with footage and photos of the leaders of North Korea and South Korea meeting in the Demiltiarized Zone (DMZ) between the two countries. He then added more optimistically: ''KOREAN WAR TO END! The  , and all of its GREAT people should be very proud of what is now taking place in Korea!''
 
 Trump also acknowledged China’s role in breakthrough, adding, ''Please do not forget the great help that my good friend, President Xi of China, has given to the United States, particularly at the Border of North Korea. Without him it would have been a much longer, tougher, process!''
 
 The flurry of activity in East Asia came even as Germany’s Chancellor Angela Merkel headed to   DC on the heels of French President Emmanuel Macron, marking heightened engagement between Europe and the US after Washington’s NATO allies appeared to have come to terms with Trump and his temperament. The White House also announced that Trump will make his first visit to Britain on July 13, after the US President had held back from going to Washington’s closest ally amid multiple misunderstandings, including Twitter spats with London’s mayor Sadiq Khan.
 
 The visit will be a stepdown from the ceremonial state visit that was initially envisaged before the cross-Atlantic kerfuffle, but the broad European engagement is arresting the schism between western powers even as Asian countries are engaging more purposefully.
 
 After several years of the Obama-Clinton construct that saw India as a possible counterweight to China, the uncertainties and vagaries of the Trump vision appear to be muting the voices of those calling for a stronger US-India partnership while strengthening those advocating New Delhi remain a balancing power.
  
 Amid the flurry of diplomatic activity across the world, ties between India and US currently appear to be on the backburner, mainly due to lack of attention at the top, a situation aggravated by vacancies across the bureaucratic hierarchy that manages the nuts and bolts of the relationship. 
 
 After a year of Tillerson’s sketchy tenure at the State Department, the new Secretary of State Mike Pompeo is expected to pick up the threads to take the US-India relationship forward at an overdue two-plus-two meeting of defence and external affairs/state department officials soon. That meeting was postponed due to Tillerson’s departure.
 
 Pompeo was sworn into office on Wednesday and he rushed off to Brussels the very next day for the NATO foreign ministers’ meeting. With President's Trump's North Korea outreach and the re-energized trans-Atlantic engagements taking priority, it is hard to see when the India relationship will get any high-level attention. 
 
 
