NEW DELHI: The Indian Institute of Management, Bangalore, will introduce a certification course on General Management Programme for Young Leaders in the coming academic session. 

 
 Ten core management courses are offered as a part of the certificate programme, which includes economics, organisation design, communication, business statistics and analytics, accounting for decisionmaking, marketing, operation management, human resources management, corporate finance and strategic management. This will be a weekend programme meant for young working professionals. 
 
 
 According to MS Narasimhan, programme director of the course, the first five courses are taught as a foundation for management, and the remaining five courses will be taught as functional management.
 
 
 Duration: About one year (part-time course) Fees: INR 3,00,000 (excluding GST) Website: http://www.iimb.ac.in
 
 
 Eligibility criteria: Graduation plus minimum three to five years’ work experience.
 
 
 Career options: The programme is for working executives.
 
 
 Why should one opt for it: Young professionals take higher roles and managerial responsibilities at a relatively younger age of their careers. Many of them also work for startups and SMEs where they need to think beyond their technical knowledge, and they need to have a big picture of running a business set up. “Many young leaders struggle and get confused about their decision-making abilities. They look for support to speed up their learning curve and to make informed decisions,” added Narasimhan.
 
 
 IIMB designed the certification course keeping in mind the challenges faced by young professionals and having close interactions with industry. The programme provides a strong foundation in management and creates confidence in handling tough problems.
 
 
 Remuneration: Not Applicable; it is a programme for working professionals equipping them for higher managerial position.
 
 
 Total number of seats: 75 
 
 
 Deadline: May 1, 2018 (Early Decision); June 1, 2018 (Last Date).
 
 
 Duration of the course: One Year (week-end).
 
 
 Applications invited: From young leaders with 3 to 5 years’ work experience.
 
