Nagpur: Aggrieved over authorities’ failure to decide on pension of a 75-year-old citizen, the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court on Tuesday, issued a bailable warrant of Rs15,000 against Nagpur University’s Grievance Redressal Committee secretary and Deekshabhoomi-based Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar College principal.

 A division bench comprising justices Bhushan Dharmadhikari and Swapna Joshi asked both the authorities to complete formalities before January 29, fixed as the next date of hearing.
 
 The court’s directives came while hearing an application of Charandas Marotrao Bhagat, through his counsel Arvind Waghmare, praying for inclusion of his case in the final hearing list.
 
 The senior citizen joined the college as an assistant technician and eventually rose to senior clerk’s position before being retired on December 31, 1999. He contended that he should have ideally received Rs3,500 as basic pension, but the college authorities committed some mistakes in calculations and he was being granted Rs2,324. It continued till August 1, 2008, after which sixth pay commission was implemented. However, the college management refused to grant him any benefits.
 
 He subsequently, approached NU’s Grievance Redressal Committee. When nothing progressed, he finally knocked judiciary’s doors.
 
 On February 13 last year, the court admitted his plea and asked the registry to place it for final hearing. It commenced from December 4 and continued till 22, before vacations started. After court resumed hearing, his case was not listed. On enquiry, he came to know that the case was removed from the list of final hearing by registry, forcing the petitioner to file this application. 
 
 State Department of School Education, state finance secretary, accountant general (audit and entitlement-2) in Nagpur region, senior district treasury officer in Civil Lines, NU Grievance Redressal Committee secretary, Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar College principal, and administrative officer of higher education grants and joint director of education in Nagpur region, were made respondents in the case.
 
 
