CHENNAI: When senior officials of Indian medicine boasted to a visiting Union minister of state on Wednesday about having world class facilities at Arignar Anna Government Hospital of Indian Medicine, a few blocks away patients were sharing their bed and breakfast with stray cats. 

  
  Cats have a free run of the wards in Arignar Anna Government Hospital of Indian Medicine
 
 
 Duty doctors, postgraduates and nurses in the wards were engaged in debates on who gets the right dose of medicine or oil massage and who is suffering the most. With several drugs gone off the shelves for months now, doctors, particularly in Siddha wards, say they administer reduced doses, dole out alternatives, sometimes placebo or just hot water. A goof-up the state finance department delayed release of funds for drug purchase by more than six months.
 
 The government sanctioned Rs 27 crore for the Indian medicine department in March 2016 — this included Rs 9 crore from the   (NHM) for 450 Ayush clinics and Rs 18 crore from the state health department for 950 other clinics. But in April, the finance department sanctioned just Rs 9 crore. After several meetings and communications, Rs 9 crore was released in February. Although joint director Dr P Parthiban says department has ordered for all the required drugs, shortage is yet to be resolved. “The Siddha dispensary today has stock of 39 drugs against the required 110. We use weaker alternatives when we don’t have medicines,” said a duty doctor.
 
 When bread and milk arrived for breakfast, cats jumped on to the beds. A nurse was heard cautioning some patients, who claimed to have comfort in sharing their bread with their new furred friends. “They may have parasites. These animals have not had their shots and have not been dewormed. You have an infection and this animal can make it worse,” she said shooing away the cat, which then walked into labour ward of Siddha department.
 
 In the labour ward, women had more to worry than cats. The bedspreads haven’t been changed for several days and the toilets aren’t cleaned regularly. “We wash our bedspreads on our own. We don’t have a place to wash and dry our clothes. Clothes are hung all around the wards,” said Sarawathi S, whose daughter is admitted to female ward. Her neighbour quickly added: “We have to guard our clothes carefully as we are scared rats would chew on them.”
 
 There were cats in all most all wards of the hospitals including massage rooms (panchakarma) of Ayurveda and aromatherapy wards of Naturopathy. Hospital authorities said they have informed corporation about the problem. “We tell patients not feed these cats, but they encourage them. We will a have riot of something happens to these cats,” a senior administrator, who refused to be quoted.
 
 
