MUMBAI: Colaba’s Koyla   has a   (NOC) from the fire department allowing the use of electric appliances to warm food, similar to 1Above, the illegal rooftop resto-bar at Kamala Mills compound where a fire had claimed 14 lives on December 29.

 This shocking fact came to fore when civic officials on Thursday demolished the illegal eatery operating from the terrace of Kamal Mansion and sealed the premises for several violations, including illegal construction.   also operates from one of the floors of the Colaba building, with required permissions. Koyla is owned by  , son of SP legislator Abu Azmi.
 
 Civic officials pointed out that it is surprising that the chief fire officer would issue the conditional NOC allowing the use of electric appliances—grill toasters, sandwich makers and microwave oven—on the terrace to keep food warm, when Koyla has no permission to use the terrace for serving food. A week before the Kamala Mills incident, fire officer Rajendra Patil had visited 1Above and given a similar conditional NOC to regularize the illegal rooftop resto-bar. Patil was later arrested. 
 
 A civic officer claimed that instead of electric appliances, the Koyla management was using gas cylinder to cook food, hence it was served a notice on January 30. 
 
 The   claimed that it had first inspected Koyla on December 30, a day after the Kamala Mills blaze, after receiving complaints that the restuarant was running illegally on the terrace as well as serving hookah. It conducted another inspection on January 15 around 5pm, when no   and cooking activities could be seen. But sources pointed out that these activities do not start till late evening.
 
 The BMC acted against the irregularities at Koyla on Thursday only after public outcry. Assistant municipal commissioner Kiran Dighavkar said, “On Thursday, we demolished the permanent structures on the terrace and seized hookahs as the management did not pay heed to our January 30 notice. Besides, Koyla has permission to operate the restaurant on the lower floor, not the terrace.”
 
 But Farhan said he will take the BMC to court over the issue. “We have all our licences in place and had also applied for permission for service in the rooftop area under the new policy. We have been operating here for the last 17 years and there has never been a problem so far. The BMC cannot shut us down as we have not broken any law.”
 
