NAGPUR: Welcoming the reduction in corporate   rate to 25% for a section of the MSMEs from the existing rate of 30%, which will result in availability of additional funds at the disposal of a company, tax experts from the city explored various proposals tabled in the Parliament by the finance minister Arun Jaitley while presenting Union Budget for 2018-19.

 Starting off with the opening remarks, CA Ashok Chandak, chairman of VIA’s Taxation and Corporate Law Forum (TCLF) said, “In this budget there is hardly anything in relation to indirect taxes as most of them have been merged into the Goods and   (GST) and the power to amend rules or taxes rests with the GST Council alone. The government, however, has the power to amend customs duty (tax imposed on import and export of goods).”
 
 The discussion on ‘Union Budget 2018 – Analysis of   Provisions’ was organized by VIA TCLF at VIA auditorium on Friday. The focus of the programme was on the changes in the direct tax law and its effect on the industries mainly focused on the industries in Vidarbha.
 
 “Finance minister justified the move to increase customs duty on certain items saying it will provide levelplaying field to domestic manufacturers and thus boost the ‘Make in India’ initiative,” Chandak said.
 
 Chartered accountant   strongly advocated reduction in tax rates and increasing exemption limit to ensure better tax compliance to boost revenue. He also suggested to reduce penal provisions for unexplained wealth and cash deposits from the present 60% and penalty to 30% without penalty. This will encourage more people to come forward to pay up, he said.
 
 Loya went on to explain the re-introduction of LTCG (long term capital gains) tax on profit from shares and its implication on investments. He also discussed at length the implications of the re-introduction of standard deductions vis-a-vis withdrawals of deduction towards transport allowance and medical reimbursement exemptions for the salaried taxpayers.
 
 Chandak also solicited feedback from the audience and assured that the suggestions would be considered for being forwarded to the post-Budget memorandum to be submitted to the government.
 
 CA OS Bagdia, vice-president of VIA, Sachin Jajodia, convener TCLF, Naresh Jakhotia, joint secretary VIA, Anil Parakh, former vice-president - VIA; CA Jethalal Rukhiyana, programme coordinator were also present on the occasion. Also present include CA Satish Sarda, Shabbir Bohra, Atul Khemka, Hemal Kothari, M.G. Jawanjar , Rajesh Kabra, Govind Batra, Chandan Patel and many others industrialists.
 
 
