BENGALURU: Tonnes of refuse-derived fuel (RDF) piled up at the Karnataka Compost Development Corporation ( ) plant in Kudlu, HSR Layout, south-east Bengaluru, have been posing a threat to residents. Describing it as a ‘ticking bomb’, they said with summer fast approaching, there are chances of the stockpile going up in flames, endangering not only them but also the Somasundarapalya Lake in the neighbourhood.

 A combustible material derived from processing garbage, RDF has a high calorific value and is a fire hazard. It is used in cement factories as fuel instead of coal. “The authorities are dumping RDF on the
 
 4.1-acre encroached land of Somasundarapalya Lake. They have started mud-capping the RDF (covering it with mud). It is nothing but a ticking bomb, but the authorities have not taken the matter seriously,” said   Rastogi, member of the KHHSP (Kudlu, Hosapalya, HSR Layout, Somasundarapalya and  ) residents’ welfare association.
 
 Kamesh said a joint action team comprising BBMP officials and residents was formed last year, but only a fraction of the action plans have been implemented.
 
 “In December, Sarfaraz Khan, joint commissioner for health and solid waste management, said a vendor had been finalized, and that they would start transporting RDF elsewhere. The officials promised to transport 100 metric tonnes of RDF every day, but only 13-14 tonnes are being shifted,” he added.
 
 An official said over 600 tonnes of RDF were transported since December, bringing down the quantity to 7,500 tonnes.
 
 “One year ago, a fire broke out near the soil-capped RDF abutting the lake. There’s also a mountain of RDF lying in the open without any kind of soil-capping. They must remove it before temperature rises, else it may trigger another fire,” said Lalithamba B V, resident and member of the joint action committee.
 
 The KCDC plant in Kudlu receives 130-140 tonnes of waste every day from Bommanahalli and surrounding areas. While residents say the plant is operating above its 70-tonne capacity, officials claim the actual capacity is 500 tonnes. Those living within 2-km radius complain of respiratory issues, constant headaches and burning sensation in the eye caused by stench emanating from the plant.
 
 Veerabhadra Swamy, joint commissioner, Bommanahalli, and additional in-charge managing director of the plant, said: “We started by lifting 20 tonnes a day and this has now increased to 50. From next week, it will be 100 tonnes. The RDF is being transported by an Andhra Pradesh-based agency and we faced a few problems initially. The mud-capping was done almost 8-10 years ago as the RDF was never transported elsewhere.”
 
 Claiming that only private parties are to be blamed for encroachment, he said: “As soon as the authorities start developing the lake and its surroundings, we will immediately vacate 2-3 acres of land.”
 
