KOLKATA/HYDERABAD:   chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao’s tryst with national politics began with his look-east outreach and a key summit with Trinamool   chief Mamata Banerjee in Kolkata on Monday. While the concept of a grand alliance for 2019 initially hit a wall over inclusion of Congress in the broad umbrella, the two leaders did shrewd political maneuvering by renaming Third Front as   while keeping the door ajar for Congress, considered villain No. 1by the Telangana CM.

 KCR, however, agreed to the re-nomenclature of Third Front to allow Trinamool Congress chief come onboard the alternative alliance to take on both BJP and Congress. Mamata too welcomed Rao’s initiative, but didn’t commit on a non-Congress path that KCR was stringently pursuing.
 
 However, this was the first beginning in crystallization of an alternative front for 2019 elections and both leaders expressed happiness after the two-hour long discussion at the Secretariat in Kolkata.
 
 
 West Bengal CM Mamata Banerjee welcomes KCR in Kolkata on Monday. (Right) Telangana chief minister prays at Kalighat temple
 
 KCR deflects   query in federal alliance for 2019
 
 Mamata Banerjee said, “It has been a good start. Politics is a continuous process. We have begun the dialogue. We need to talk to each other. Let us approach other parties also. We are not in a hurry.   expressed his views like   did yesterday. We have our own views. We need to talk to other political parties too with whom we have ties.”
 
 Talking to reporters, KCR brushed aside a question on whether the Federal Front was willing to take Congress support. “A federal front will be a huge entity. We have only seen BJP and Congress ruling the country. There have only been two choices. What magic can they do? We have seen what they did in last 71 years. Don’t assume what we are forming is something that has already been tried. That is routine thinking. Our plans are much bigger," he said.
 
 KCR asserted that the Federal Front would be revolutionary and “something great was in the works”. It is not just the coming together of political parties. We have a bigger agenda, he said. “Every situation throws up a leader. There will be no leadership tussle. We will have collective leadership.”
 
 Mamata on her part did not stop short of showing her anti-BJP card when asked on her response to BJP’s assertion that the party can take on a united  . “Nobody should be so proud of its strength. Others have their strengths too,” she said.
 
 Aware of Mamata’s growing traction with key political parties, the Telangana CM clarified after the meeting that the Federal Front is not about cobbling up of a political front. “There is a need for an alternative agenda, a development path. We want to leverage the country’s resources. We have made the beginning and talk to others before we come up with the people’s agenda,” the Telengana CM said after the meeting.
 
