 loves to break stereotypes. While many actresses take a break from work after embracing motherhood, she returned to TV with a cameo in ' ? 3', when her son   was just six months old. In fact, she was active on stage even when she was eight months pregnant.

 The actress has now bagged a new show, ' ', in which she will play mother to the title character, who is a young boy. She says that the role comes easy to her, as she is a mother in real life, too. “I imagine Rudranssh whenever I am shooting with my reel son. My character is a typical housewife, whose life is centered around her husband and son,” she says adding, “The trend on TV is to cast young actresses as mothers because of their glamour quotient, but I can’t play mom to a grown-up actor, as I won’t look the part. In fact, I was sceptical about taking up this show as well. However, I gave my nod, because the story begins with me as a young mom.” 
 
 About taking up a full-fledged show when her son is just 16 months old, Mitaali says, “He is big enough for me to work full time. I have weaned him off his day feed, so he is a little independent now. I always thought that I was a strong woman, but Rudranssh has made me realise that I am extremely emotional. I would be teary-eyed every time I would leave him home for mock shoots. Fortunately, I can bring him along to the set, as he hasn’t started going to school. He should learn that his mother is an actress and what her work entails.”
 
 Mitaali has a rather interesting take on going bold and getting intimate on screen. She says, “I am not comfortable with intimacy or kissing on screen, I won’t sport a bikini either. I might wear one when I shoot alongside my son, though (laughs). Sensuality and sexuality are not defined by the clothes you wear. It’s about your personality and the way you carry yourself. I feel that I look sexiest in a sari. While I am not comfortable flaunting my body on screen, I have immense respect for those who do it. Baring your body requires guts and a lot of hard work.” 
 
