NEW DELHI: The work on   (NHPS) is in full swing with   officials going through health welfare schemes of 6 states— Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra,  ,   and Telangana.

 One of the state officials who gave presentation to Niti Aayog officials told ET that schemes in relatively large states are being studied.
 
 “We are looking at the concept, design, medical records, data and implementation,” an official said, adding that best global practices are also being looked at for the programme. He added the technology will be the strongest point of the programme.
 
 Confirming their presentations to the Centre, Rajasthan government officials said the Bhamashah Swasthya Bima Yojana (BSBY), introduced by CM   in 2006, gives a cover of Rs 30,000 for general illnesses and Rs 3 lakh for critical illnesses and covers around 1,715 diseases.
 
 The Chief Minister’s Comprehensive Health Insurance Scheme in TN gives general coverage of up to Rs 1 lakh, and critical illness cover of Rs 2 lakh. Launched by the DMK in 2009 and repackaged by AIADMK, the scheme covers over 1,000 procedures.
 
 UP health minister Siddharth Nath Singh said the state is focussing on getting the resources and infrastructure ready for the   that the Samajwadi Party government had abandoned. 
  
  
 “We already have a blue rint for rolling out the scheme which provides a cover of Rs 30,000 and are working on a Rs 2.5 lakh top-up for RSBY covering 1.5 crore families. We should be the among the states best prepared for the roll out of NHPS,” the minister said.
 
 Among the other schemes being looked at is that of Maharashtra which provides benefits to 85%of its population from fourteen districts. Started as Rajiv Gandhi Jeevandayee Arogya Yojana, launched in July 2012, it was changed to Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Jan Arogya Yojana in 2017 and covers 22.3 m ration card holders.
 
 Election-bound Karnataka will roll out Universal Health Coverage (UHC) from November 1, bringing all government health schemes under one umbrella, under which all the 1.4 crore households will be eligible for cashless treatment for up to Rs 1.5 lakh in government and private hospitals. The scheme was announced just a day after NHPS was announced and is being seen as an important poll plank for the Congress.
 
 In Telangana, CM K Chandrasekhar Rao had announced the cashless health insurance scheme for government employees and runs wellness centres too for multi-speciality treatment, apart from a health-cum-life insurance scheme of Rs 5 lakh for the farmers in the state.
 
