Actress  , a known name on television, who has played prominent roles in shows like 'Pyaar Ka Dard Hai Meetha Meetha Pyaara Pyaara', 'Woh Apna Sa' and 'Sapne Suhane Ladakpan Ke', was in Kanpur recently. The actress, touted as one of the most glamorous saas on TV, talked about why she’s playing a mother in law in TV shows at such a young age. Manasi, after finishing her professional commitments, visited the famous   in Kanpur. “I had seen this huge temple on my to the venue and wanted to go there. The architecture of JK temple reminded me of Birla temple in Mumbai. I loved the temple and felt very calm within after visiting it,” said Manasi. 
A private person in real life, Manasi says she prefers to keep things that way. She got divorced after 11 years of marriage in 2016. "I had a wonderful run of 11 years in marriage but in life, every person has to face ups and downs. While I was married, we both gave each other our best. But after some time, we as individuals, felt that we should respectfully part ways," said Manasi, who was married to director Hemant Prabhu whom she met on the set of Sati... Satya Ki Shakti, which he was directing. The two tied the knot in 2005 and also have a 10-year-old daughter. "It was not because of a ‘I hate you’ thing that we got divorced. We just felt that we have different goals and ambitions in life and now we need to head in different directions. My ex is still good friends with me. We have a 10-year old daughter and I am a proud single mother." 
 Ask Manasi if she plans to remarry and she said, "It is said that no women should be alone. A woman should be always be married and have a companion to look after her and she should also look after her companion. That is why Krishna also married all his gopis. Right now I am very happy with my career and I need some time to myself. As life progresses, I will definitely think in this direction. I would love to remarry when I find someone special in life."
 Manasi, who started her career on TV in 2001, said she’s happy doing TV shows. "As an actor, I don’t feel the need of doing films. If I compare the loyalty of the audiences, then I find that the television viewing audiences is more loyal towards their favourite characters in shows. Films toh har week release hoti hain. Aise mein actor ki jo loyal audiences hai woh shift hoti rehti hai. Ek week woh audience   ko favourite manti hai toh agle week Katrina Kaif unki favourite ho jaati hai. But this is not the case with me. If I am a favourite small screen character of a certain audience, then I remain the same for months and months ahead. Also, while doing television, I don’t get much time to think about films and that’s why I am happy and satisfied with my stint on television," she said.
 Playing a mother-in-law in shows to actresses just a few years younger than her, Manasi said she is perhaps the most chic and glamorous saas on TV right now. "My image of a glamorous mother-in-law in serials is inspiring real life mothers-in-laws. When I meet ladies, they tell me 'hum aap ke jaisa dikhna chahte hain'. I feel happy when they tell me that in order to get fit they have joined a gym. They also tell me that they regularly go for beauty sittings so that they look good. I feel that every person on this earth should keep herself fit and beautiful and if I am inspiring them to do the same, then there can be nothing better."
 — Jha.Sumit@timesgroup.com
 
 
