By now, workshops on   are commonplace. There are several private classes that you can take up if you want to learn how to defend yourself. But in a first, city-based   of Engineering has decided to make self-defence part of their curriculum, from the next academic year, thereby ensuring that their students are exposed to more than just a few hours of self-defence training. For starters, the college recently conducted various self-defence training sessions for female students, under the   programme. 

 Going forward, they will be making these sessions part of their curriculum in order to help students in the long run. Colleges affiliated with  , have a credit system and students have to choose from various skill development courses offered by the university or the college. 
 
 Since self-defence was not on the university’s list, Modern College is introducing it for their students. “We have decided to have self-defence as a part of the curriculum from the upcoming academic year. It will train students mentally as well as physically. Yoga or karate will also be part of it,” says Kalyani Joshi, principal of Modern College of Engineering. To initiate the process, the college recently organised a self-defence session with an expert. “We have organised self-defence sessions in the past. But this time, we roped in experts so students would to receive detailed training. The session was organised by the Women of Wisdom club of the college, with experts from   group,” Kalyani adds.
 
 Needless to say, students are appreciating this decision by their college. Saloni Shinde, a second year student says, “Considering the issues that girls face, this is necessary. The recent workshop helped build confidence among us. Now I know a few techniques to defend myself while commuting by bus. They taught us about the kind of situations we can face and how to defend ourselves.” 
 
  
  
 
 Komal Bansal, the founder of KBK Raksha, who divided the session into a theory half and a practical half, says, “In the theoretical half, students were guided by Nilima Parab and Suhel Dhaygude who are from the field. Students were first motivated and given adequate knowledge of laws which helped them gain confidence. This was followed by a demonstration and training on the college premises.”
 
 
 .
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
