HYDERABAD: A couple of weeks after chief minister   indicated that the state government wants the gram panchayat elections to be held in February, the ground reality has made it clear that is is not possible for the polls to be held by next month and that earliest possibility of holding the same would be August, which would be as per schedule.

 Thought state government wants to go for polls well in advance, there are several impediments for conducting elections. The PR Act allows for the polls to be advanced only by three months before schedule and not six months. Besides, the new Panchayat Raj Act has to be enacted, the electoral rolls revised and the BC voters’ enumeration has to be completed. “It would take a minimum of six months to complete all this,” said sources.
 
 
 “The major problem with advancing the polls is that the revision of electoral rolls is still going on in all the 83 rural assembly constituencies,”panchayat raj minister Jupally Krishna Rao told TOI on Tuesday.
 
 
 
 
 The minister added,“The final list of voters will tentatively be published on March 24. The state government cannot fix reservations for panchayats even after finalizing new panchayats now.”
 
 The   completed the summary revision of electoral rolls in urban areas such as GHMC on January 20. The state government has already taken up a massive exercise to amend the existing Panchayat Raj (PR) Act. The major reform being considered is the indirect election for sarpanch. District collectors have been asked to submit proposals on new gram panchayats before February 1.
 
 Another factor coming in the way of early PR polls is that the new Act has to be passed by the assembly. With the delay in finalizing new panchayats, revision of electoral rolls, approval of new PR Bill in assembly, the Act will be introduced in the House in the upcoming budget session that is likely to begin on March 12.
 
 Official sources said reservations for the panchayats can be fixed only after new panchayats are created and the new Act is passed. After that, the BC enumerations needs to be done in the panchayats. Another major issue that prevents advancing elections is there is no provision in the PR Act to conduct elections six months ahead of schedule. “As per the act, the elections can be held three months in advance i.e May, June or July of the scheduled August, 2018,” Telangana State Election Commission secretary M   said.
 
 Election commission sources said the state government has not yet informed the poll body about its proposal to go for early elections.
 
 
 
 
 Telangana   leaders on Tuesday took up a state-wide campaign demanding direct elections to the post of sarpanch.
 
 Congress leaders staged demonstrations in front of all 31 district collectorates and submitted representations to collectors to write to the government that there is widespread demand not to conduct an indirect election for sarpanch’s post. They alleged that this may result in “horse trading” with money being spent to stake claim for the post.
 
 In Greater Hyderabad, a leaders led by former home minister Sabitha Indra Reddy and former MLA D   submitted a memorandum to RR district collector. They said there is a threat that the poor, SCs, STs and backward classes would stand to lose as they may not be able to spend money. They said the party would take the legal route if the government does not withdraw the proposal. 
 
