HYDERABAD: City golfers   handicap CAT (0-18) and   handicap CAT (19-24) claimed the final two national final spots to qualify for the   on Day 2 of Hyderabad Leg after carding a Nett. Score of 70.2 and 72 respectively. The   has so far seen 19 qualifiers including today who will be competing in the National Finals to be played at the Oxford   Resort in Pune from 4-6 April 2018.

 The day also saw participation from former Indian cricketer Venkatapathy Raju.
 
 The best Gross Winner of the day was Nooruddin Malak with a round of 72 and there were a host of other prizes on offer to be won on the day.
 
 Prominent winners included Chandramani Panda who won the Ballantine’s Long Drive Challenge with a mammoth drive of 250 yards 26 ft. and 4 inches. Srikanth Rao Katikaneni won the Mercedes-Benz Closest to Pin contest on hole no. 16 by landing the ball at 18 ft. from the pin. In the Mercedes – Benz Closest to Pin in Two Shots, Jagadishwar Raju shot an eagle to win the contest on hole no. 3. Viswanath Mallichetty who landed the ball at 2 ft. and 6 inches from the line won the Mercedes-Benz Straightest Drive contest.
 
 The format of play was Double Peoria. This unique format of adjusting handicaps of players levels the playing field enabling golfers to have a greater chance of qualifying for the National Finals.
 
 A total of 100 golfers participated on Day 2 of the Hyderabad qualifiers and now the Mercedes Trophy qualifications will move to the city of Coimbatore scheduled to tee off on 27th January 2018.
 
 This year’s Mercedes Trophy will host 27 days of golf across 12 Indian cities. Pune will also host the national finals at the Oxford Golf Resort between 4th and 6th April 2018.
 
 This year for the first time, Mercedes-Benz’s global charity partner– Laureus Sport for Good Foundation is also associated with the tournament to raise funds for its programmes in India. While participants can donate online or on-ground at the tournament venue, Mercedes-Benz India will donate an equal amount to match the funds raised from participants.
 
 Globally, Mercedes Trophy witnesses participation of approximately 60,000 golfers from across 60 countries battling it out for the top prize, making it one of the world’s largest and most coveted sporting events.
 
 The 18th edition of the Mercedes Trophy after the Hyderabad qualifiers will travel to 7 more cities – Coimbatore, Kolkata, Chennai, Chandigarh, Gurgaon, Noida and Jaipur. Forty-five winners will be selected from the qualifiers for the National Finals. The qualifiers end on March 11, 2018 in Jaipur.
 
 Three winners of the National Finals will then compete against those from tournaments played in 60 countries all over the world in the 29th edition of the Mercedes Trophy World Final to be held in Stuttgart, Germany. Mercedes-Benz is also providing an opportunity for beginners to learn golf through their Golf Clinic program.
 
 
