Chennai: With almost the entire stock of medicines at the   in   over, more than 150 in-patients of the   ward are being given hot water with medicines to treat cold and diarrhoea, doctors said. The 500 outpatients are being given the option of buying medicines from private drug stores or to choose from the ‘available’ medicines.

 On Tuesday, six senior professors along with   principal Dr K Kanakavalli went to meet the commissioner of Indian Medicine Dr K Senthil Raj as duty doctors and postgraduate students threatened to go on strike after one of the their patients demanded pain-obliterating therapeutic oils doctors prescribe for her rheumatoid arthritis.
 
 “She is our regular patient and threw a fit when we told her medicines weren’t available. These medicines are expensive at private drug stores and she said she will not be able to afford them,” said a professor. Although doctors usually pool in money to help needy patients, on Tuesday they decided it could not continue.
 
 For more than three weeks now, doctors in the hospital have been prescribing only 11 of 112 types of drugs, a doctor said. “Even if a patient comes to us with diarrhoea, we give him hot water. Sometimes we give them medicines we prescribe for common cold. Because side effects for herbal medicines are not huge, the only form of treatment is now is placebo effect,” said a postgraduate student.
 
 If the condition of patients gets critical, then they are rushed to the nearby   or   for  . “Some patients need massage with special oils. These are done so we can dissolve blood clots. If this massage is stopped, it can be life threatening,” said another senior professor. The situation is far worse in other hospitals and clinics across the state, they said.
 
 College principal Dr Kanakavalli said the commissioner had sanctioned Rs 5 lakh for immediate purchase of drugs from the local market. “He told us there was problem with procurement of drugs after GST. Our joint director is in charge of getting it for us. He told us it will be sorted out,” she said.
 
 Indian Medicine joint director Dr P Parthiban said TAMCOL, the agency that purchases Indian medicines, had to recall several tenders after the introduction of GST. “This slowed down purchase of some drugs. Today we have supplied 1,500 litres of coconut oil and gingelly oil for preparation of various medicines. We will be preparing the medicines at the hospital in the next two days,” he said.
 
 
