BENGALURU: Japanese telecom and inter net group Soft-Bank is leading a $445-million, or around Rs 2,900-crore, financing round at  , the online marketplace run by   E-Commerce. The funding will also see participation from existing investor  .

 The funding will be spread across four tranches over a year and is likely to value Paytm Mall at $2 billion, as we reported earlier. According to latest regulatory filings,   and Alibaba have already put more than $110 million, or Rs 710 crore, of the proposed investment.
 
 According to documents sourced from business research platform Paper.vc, SB Investment Holdings and its affiliates, including the $100-billion SoftBank Vision Fund, are offering to invest $400 million in Paytm Mall, while Alibaba would put in the rest of the amount.
 
 Once the four tranches are through, SoftBank will end up with about a 21% stake in Paytm Mall while Alibaba will have a 46% stake, the documents pointed out.
 
 oftBank may bring together all of  's rivals in India
 
 To be sure, Alibaba had infused $177 million in the company last year when the e-commerce business was separated from its parent entity, One97 Communications. In all, the spun-off entity received $200 million before the latest funding with Alibaba owning 57% in Paytm Mall. The development comes at a time when the SoftBank-backed Flipkart is in final stages of getting on board Walmart as the e-commerce battle continues in the country.
 
 Last month, TOI had reported that the funding round led by SoftBank would value the company at $2 billion. The fresh investment in Paytm Mall marks another significant bet by SoftBank's founder Masayoshi Son on the burgeoning online retail market here as the group forms an anti-Amazon alliance along with Alibaba. Son has emerged as one of the most influential tech investors globally and in India and its strong grasp on the Indian online retail will get a further boost with Paytm Mall, after having successfully led a $2.5-billion financing Flipkart last year.
 
 SoftBank also put $1 billion in Paytm's parent One97 Communications for its payments business. People keeping track of the online retail market in India have speculated that Soft-Bank will look to bring together all of Amazon's competitors in an attempt to take on the aggressive and ambitious Jeff Bezos here. A SoftBank spokesperson said, "We believe Paytm Mall's offline-to-online operating model is uniquely positioned to enable India's 15 million offline retail shops to participate in India's e-commerce boom."
 
 This investment will help Paytm Mall grow its leadership in the country's offline-toonline commerce ecosystem, expanding its new model of retail.
 
 
