GHAZIABAD: A Ghaziabad resident has lodged a police complaint alleging that an Andhra Pradesh-based company dealing in Bitcoin exchange and wallet service has cheated him of around Rs 7 lakh.

 Anuj Garg, a financial consultant with a Gurgaon-based firm, said he had downloaded the mobile application on his phone in November last year and started transactions in the  . But after a few days, his account was suspended and Garg lost both the Bitcoin and the money left in his mobile wallet, which collectively amounted to around Rs 7 lakh, he alleged.
 
 Garg approached Ghaziabad police on December 26. He also lodged a complaint with the Delhi economic offences wing on December 18. The Andhra firm, however, dismissed the allegations.
 
 The financial consultant said he had come to know of several people through social media who had been targeted by the company.
 
 He mentioned  , a bank employee in  , who and his wife had been allegedly duped of around Rs 50 lakh. In most cases, accounts of the users were either suspended or they were not able to do any transaction even if the accounts reflected Bitcoin or money in their wallets, Garg said.
 
 Bitcoin is a cryptocurrency and worldwide payment system, according to Wikipedia. It is the first decentralised digital currency, as the system works without a central bank or single administrator.
 
 Garg said he had in November last year opened an account with   Private Limited, whose owner is Sykam Ramakrishna Reddy.
 
 “I am a victim of the scam. At the time of registering with the company, I was told that there was no limit on buying or selling Bitcoin. The company said it charged a brokerage of 0.1 per cent and other fees on trading, including withdrawals, and there was a limit on withdrawal for up to Rs 5 lakh a day.” Garg said.
 
 “On November 9, when I made a withdrawal request of Rs 5 lakh, the company transferred only Rs 2 lakh to my bank account. Besides, my Bitcoin worth Rs 3.79 lakh was also seized. I followed up the matter with the company’s support team and also spoke to the owner. But they threatened me that if I went to the police, I would never get my money and Bitcoin back,” he added.
 
 Bitcoin India owner Reddy denied the allegations. “Whatever we have done is according to the terms and conditions of the company. It is a wallet and not a trading platform, and if people are manipulating the data or doing any other malpractice, we have the liberty to terminate their accounts. We are ready to challenge any legal step that they might take,” Reddy told TOI.
 
 Dinesh Yadav, the in-charge of Ghaziabad crime branch, said an investigation would be initiated.
 
