NEW DELHI: The Union human resource development ministry said on Thursday that the excess amount paid to a teacher by Jawaharlal Nehru University would have to be recovered. The matter was also brought up in the Rajya Sabha by Sanjiv Kumar, an MP from Jharkhand.

 On Wednesday, TOI had reported how   had made excess payments to a teacher in violation of the University Grants Commission’s regulations and how despite being reminded by the Comptroller and Auditor General of India to recover the sums before the case became “time-barred”, nothing had been done in this regard.
 
 K K Sharma, secretary, higher education, HRD ministry, told TOI, “Any   has to be recovered. While time-barred cases will be exempted, whether the delay was intentional in such cases will be looked into.”
 
 In the Rajya Sabha, the ministry submitted a written reply to Kumar’s query to state that “JNU has informed CAG had pointed out some irregularities in the promotion of a faculty member and communicated to it to recover the overpaid amount on account”.
 
 The ministerial reply said that after the faculty member was served a noticed, she had made an “appeal to review the decision”. “The appeal was placed before the university’s executive council on November 23, 2017 as her promotion and salary both were approved by the executive council and the council resolved to keep on hold the recovery of arrears till the receipt of response from the CAG,” the ministry said.
 
 According to documents with TOI, JNU not only did not recover the excess, but continued paying the faculty member more than warranted, as stated by CAG in a second report on March 16, 2017.
 
 After the issue got “time-barred” in May last year, the director general of audit (central expenditure) wrote to Sharma, seeking directions to JNU to recover the excess amount. “During the audit of 2015-16, it was noticed that the university had not taken any action to recover the overpayment pointed out in audit. Instead, the associate professor was continued to be paid in excess of entitlement, resulting in increase of overpayment to Rs 20.88 lakh as on January 2016.”
 
 
