HYDERABAD: Holding the future of kids uppermost, the   has ruled in favour of a London-based NRI embroiled in a matrimonial tussle with his wife and granted him custody of his two minor kids. “You can take your two sons from your wife, who is currently in Madanapalle of Chittoor district in AP, and take them to London to provide them a decent education as per your plans,” the bench of Justice C V Nagarjuna Reddy and Justice G Shyam Prasad told the NRI husband, who has been running around in this court for the last six months at the cost of his physiotherapy team manager’s job in UK’s  .
 
 The bench was hearing a plea by the husband , who has been working in the UK for the past 14 years, and was seeking custody of his sons, who were brought back to India by his wife. The couple got married in 2009. His wife accompanied him to London, where she gave birth to two sons — one in 2011 and the other in 2015. She too became a UK citizen along with her sons who acquired the status by virtue of their birth in London. The elder son was admitted to a school in London.
 
 The strain in their relationship came to the fore after the wife lodged a complaint with the London police on May 13, 2017, accusing her husband of domestic violence. He was arrested and after 24 hours in judicial custody was granted bail on the condition he would stay away from his house for four weeks.
 
 However, during this period, the wife returned to her parents’ house in   along with her sons. The husband filed a divorce petition and sought custody of the children but the wife opposed his pleas. In October 2017, a UK court declared the two children as its wards and directed the wife to bring the children back to the jurisdiction of   and Wales by November 6, 2017. The UK court held that the two children were wrongfully removed from its jurisdiction as it has exclusive jurisdiction in matters of parental responsibility over children. However, the wife had maintained that the legal proceedings were launched against her after she left UK and were not binding on her.
 
 After studying the issue in depth and hearing the arguments of both the advocates the Hyderabad HC concluded that the allegations of injuries inflicted by her husband on her and the children were unsubstantiated. What also swung the case in the husband’s favour was the evasive replies of the wife about the alleged injuries inflicted by her husband on the children.
 
 The bench also satisfied itself about the children having more affinity with friends in the UK as they were born and brought up there till they were brought to India nine months ago, it directed the wife to hand over custody of the children to her husband. Though the wife was unwilling even to avail her visitation rights, the bench granted her rights to visit her home in London and see her children as and when she felt like. The bench also directed the husband to deposit ?5 lakh with her for this purpose.
 
