Why and how something is done is at least as important as what is done. This applies, with particular relevance, to the legitimacy of introducing prayers in educational institutions.

 In   and Others vs. the Union of India (2002),   made a significant distinction. The issue before the court for adjudication in that instance pertained to the legitimacy of introducing religious instruction into school syllabi, the petitioners maintaining that such infusions infringed the secular character of education.
 
 The Supreme Court, in that instance, enunciated a distinction between ‘religious instruction’ and ‘religious education’. The former deals with the dogmas and rituals of a religion; whereas ‘religious education’ limits itself to the ‘philosophy’ of religions. The court concluded that Article 28 of the constitution did not interdict the introduction of ‘religious education’ so understood. The court went as far as stating that educating students on the philosophical and ethical essence of religions must be deemed basic to imparting holistic education. This is the law that holds the field in respect of the interface of religion and education in India today.
 
 What about prayer, then? Prayer is a half-way house between   on the one hand, and doctrines and rituals on the other. This means that prayer has the potential to be used either as a ritual or as a spiritual experience rooted in what is noble, universal and philosophical in religious traditions. Sheer practicalities dictate that it is impossible to maintain this distinction vis-à-vis a practice made mandatory across states. Whatever is mandatory becomes, willy-nilly, ritualistic. The mandatory study even of philosophy ceases to be philosophical and becomes a wearisome ritual! The practice in vogue in St. Stephen’s College is that a collection of prayers gathered from different religious traditions and a few from Gurudev Tagore are read out. They are philosophical and universal in substance and spirit.
 
 The question that needs to be addressed up-front in this connection pertains to coercion. Prayer - indeed every aspect of true religion - is incompatible with coercion. You can force no one to pray, no more than you can force a person to love, or to love in a prescribed fashion. What is sacred must be handled in a spirit of reverence and nobility of purpose, lest it cease to be spiritual and becomes profane. Prayer as an imposition, backed by the muscle of the state, discredits the very idea of prayer. Only a spiritually unsound mind will conceive prayer as a weapon of assertion.
 
 
 
 
