CHANDIGARH: Recently, members of some resident welfare associations ( ) approached the court after they noticed discrepancies in the voter list. The RWA members, therefore, did not want the   of the Federation of Sectors Welfare Associations of Chandigarh ( ) to take place next month.
 
  
 
 However, some members of Foswac do not want to postpone the elections. They said the election should take place in accordance with the constitution and on time. Now, this election issue will be one of the major topics to be tabled in the coming annual general body meeting of the association, which is scheduled on April 29.
 
 For the first time Foswac is also going to hold an election for the post of secretary of the association. Last year, it was decided that the association will conduct an election for the post of secretary in 2018. This, however, was not the case earlier.
 
 Meanwhile, there are others who are in favour of postponing the election. Sources revealed that there are allegations the present chairman wants to continue for another year. The present chairman has already completed his two-year tenure as per the norms of the Foswac. He has been accused of delaying the elections. To make the matter more complicated, the two general secretaries want to fight for the chairperson’s post. 
 
 As per the norms, which were amended on May 10, 2015, in a meeting of the Foswac, it was decided that the executive committee will consist of office bearers of Foswac. The tenure of the executive committee will be two years. The quorum of the executive committee will be 1/3. The executive committee will meet frequently as directed by the chairman. Any vacancy in the executive committee during its tenure will be filled up by the executive committee and that, too, after nomination.
 
 Sources said this decision was taken as in the past the chairman post of the Foswac was being held by a single person for a long time due to which fresh members did not get chance. There were two chairpersons in the past. They held this post for more than 10 years.
 
 Foswac chairman Baljinder Singh Bittu said he is ready to hold the elections but the case is in the court. He will take up the matter in the annual general body meeting to see if the elections can be postponed for a while till the court takes its decision.
 
 Hitesh Puri, general secretary, Foswac said the association should hold the elections on time and as per the constitution of the Foswac. 
 
 
