AURANGABAD: The Union budget presented on Thursday has disappointed disabled people in the country who were expecting some initiatives for their welfare. Activists are upset over the meagre allocation for existing schemes for the disabled, no new schemes and lack of clarity of the government's policies.

 In a statement, the National Platform for the Rights of the Disabled (NPRD) said the Union budget gives an impression that people with disabilities are not part of the finance minister's fast growth economy trajectory.
 
 Activist Shivaji Gade said that the government has allocated Rs 300 crore for Schemes for the Implementation of the Persons with Disabilities Act (SIPDA). However, he pointed out that projects under the government's Accessible India campaign ( ) are also to be funded from this amount and wondered how much would be left for the rehabilitation of the disabled. The Accessible India campaign has a target of making 600 public buildings, 600 websites and transport systems accessible to the disabled.
 
 Gade said that in the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act 2016 (RPD Act), the government had increased the number of categories for the disabled from 7 to 21. "However, the funds allocated for the specially-abled in the local bodies continues to be at 3%. We were expecting the government to increase this percentage corresponding to the number of increased categories," he said.
 
 Gade said the government is shooting in the dark when formulating schemes and policies for the disabled. "Neither the Centre nor the state has any robust data on the number of such people and their kind of disability. They are going by sample surveys which do not give accurate figures," he added.
 
 Aditi Shardul, project head at Vihang Special School, lamented that the finance minister did not speak about the disabled in his budget speech. "We are fighting for the integration of the disabled in society. The finance minister spoke about farmers, women and senior citizens but not about the disabled," she said.
 
  vice-president   said no revision in the pension of the disabled and the non-implementation of schemes announced in previous years have upset many in the community.
 
