VADODARA: After hectic lobbying and canvassing, elections for the 13 seats of M S University’s new syndicate body will be held on Tuesday afternoon at university head office. 

 A total of 27 candidates are in fray for the 13 seats for which elections will be held from 1 pm onwards and will continue till 3 pm. Counting of the polls will start from 3.30 pm onwards. 
 
 A day ahead of the polls, candidates made last minute attempts to lure the senators – who form the electoral base in this election. Although there are 104 seats of senators in university’s senate body with many a seats remaining vacant the actual number of voters stand at around 91 of which five are government officials, who are ex-officio members of the senate. 
 
 Till Monday night, names of two representatives from amongst MLAs were also not decided even as the rival factions of the saffron camp were counting on each vote that will fall in their favour. 
 
 The elections are scheduled to be held for two seats of deans of faculties, six persons in the general category and five teachers (including one professor and four teachers other than deans, heads of department and principals of colleges).
 
 Since there were no other contestants to file nominations for the one seat representing the head of department (HoD) category in which HoDs are voters and one seat representing principals,   from Faculty of Science and  , principal of   have already got elected uncontested to the two seats ahead of Tuesday’s polls. 
 
 The warring saffron camps including the ruling group that is presently enjoying majority in the outgoing syndicate body and the ‘sankalan samiti’ which has members of the BJP, the RSS, the ABVP and the   were not only approaching the senators who will vote but were also frantically calling up all those who could influence the voters. 
 
 Apart from the 13 seats of the syndicate, elections for the four seats of the P G Council in which eight candidates are in fray, three seats of board of accounts in which six candidates in fray and two seats of board of extra mural studies in which four candidates are in fray – will also be held on Tuesday. 
 
 
