Last week, the   agreed to hear a petition filed by 20 former and current students from the Indian Institute of Technology. The petitioners, who belong to different IITs, have filed this petition on behalf of the 350+   alumni, students, staff and faculty from the IITs, who are a part of an informal pan-IIT LGBT group,  . “We come together to file this writ petition in front of the Supreme Court of India, challenging the constitutionality of Section 377 of the Indian Penal Code on several grounds,” reads the petition. 
While the SC may hear the petition by the end of July or the first week in August, the alumni and current students from IITs are optimistic that the court will give a favourable ruling. Debottam Saha, a current student of   Delhi, Balachandran Ramiah, a 1982 graduate from IIT Delhi and Rakesh Kumar Duan, who got his Masters in 2016 from IIT  , tell us that the petition will make a change in the IITs, as it will at least start a conversation, even among people who are not comfortable discussing LGBTQI issues. They add that with the IIT brand name attached to the petition, they are hopeful that it will change the way people think about the community.
 
  
  
  
 
 
 Debottam Saha, who hails from Kolkata, is currently pursuing his PhD in Humanities and Social Sciences from IIT Delhi. Talking about the idea behind filing the petition, he says, “When the Supreme Court’s verdict on Right to Privacy came out last year, that time the issue of Section 377 was also being discussed. Within Pravritti, we sat and discussed that it is high time that we push forward this issue from the IITs, and maybe, that would make an impact, as IIT is a premiere institute. That was the context. But it is a collective struggle, and our petition is among the many other petitions filed on the same issue. What makes this petition unique is also that you can relate to these people. These are real people, and it is high time that you listen to our stories. It is time we are given our fundamental rights.”
  
  
 He adds that as he has done his Masters from  , he has been a part of LGBTQI support groups. “That time, there was an active LGBTQI group in IIT Delhi. We used to have queer collective meetings among different educational institutes. But I remember that after the SC verdict in 2013 (of reviving the penal provision of Section 377, which was declared unconstitutional by the Delhi HC in 2009), the entire group became dysfunctional. When the High Court had given the verdict against Section 377, it helped in getting people to talk about the issue. Even some faculty members were individually supporting the group. However, we can’t say that the entire campus back then was very open to the idea of discussing the topic. But I think after the SC verdict, the group was diluted. Now, it is very difficult for them to approach the administration, which wasn’t the case before the verdict. They do organise events, but only with the help and support of a few faculty members. I think this petition by IITians will make them understand that the queer community exists not only in  , Jamia and JNU, but also in IITs, and across different institutes in the country,” he explains. 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Rakesh Kumar Duan did his MBA from IIT Kharagpur. Rakesh, who is from Sambalpur, is currently based in Bengaluru. Talking about how the petition mentions the mental trauma, anxiety and depression that many of the petitioners have gone through, Rakesh says, “I have not faced any such discrimination in my school or college life, but the situation was not the same at my home. When I came out to my family, the experience was traumatising. When I used to ask them about such topics (related to homosexuality), they used to get very furious. That was my motivation to join as one of the petitioners, because I did not want my parents to think of me as a criminal.”
 Talking about his experience at IIT Kharagpur, Rakesh informs us that he was among those who started the first LGBTQI support group at the institute. “When I joined IIT Kharagpur in 2014, there was no LGBTQI support group in the institute, so my friends and I started a support group called Ambar. We conducted a lot of events and festivals, and also sensitised people during our cultural festivals. However, I was never discriminated against in college because I was gay,” he adds. 
 
  
  
 But he does not undermine the struggles that people may have faced in other IITs. “In India, IITs are considered temples. For people who want their kids to be engineers, IIT is the place. When people from IITs file a petition like this, then the brand name is obviously there. Another point to this is that if people from IITs, who are privileged enough to study in an institute like that, are talking about depression and trauma resulting from just because of who they are, you can imagine the trauma that the less privileged would be facing in other institutes,” he elaborates. 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Balachandran Ramiah studied Mechanical Engineering from IIT Delhi in 1982. He is currently based in Mumbai as a business entrepreneur. Bala says that the petition will definitely make a change as it has already started a conversation among students within IITs. “I think the atmosphere at IIT Delhi is like any other engineering institute. Most of the students who come to study there are from small towns, and do not have enough exposure. While we are blessed to have a 19-year-old petitioner as well, the problem is that most LGBTQI students at the institute are worried. They live in hostels and the support of their peers is important, and nobody wants to feel excluded. But what this petition has already done is that it has started a conversation and we are optimistic that we will get a favourable ruling from the SC on our petition. Many judges on this particular bench have given favourable ruling on matters related to Right to Privacy, and we do believe that they will be convinced by our arguments on various grounds on which we have challenged Section 377,” he adds. 
 
  
  
 
 
