HYDERABAD: An international   including from Hyderabad has found a   to various professional, cultural, personal and ethical issues faced by physicians and surgeons during their medical practice. The researchers have selected certain verses from the   that could solve the problems of doctors including updating medical knowledge, management of anger, friendly behaviour with patients and development of preceptive leadership.

 The study on the   and the solution it offers to the problems faced by modern day medical practitioners was published in the latest issue of the Indian Journal of Endocrinology and Metabolism. Interestingly, the research team included experts from Bangladesh, Pakistan and Maldives. A senior doctor from the department of endocrinology, Osmania General Hospital, Hyderabad, was also part of the research group.
 
 According to the study, the Holy Gita offers to physicians timeless solutions to modern challenges. It offers physician-friendly taxonomy including attributes of a good physician, excellent knowledge, equanimity, emotional equipoise shaping the behaviour of physicians and surgeons. They further revealed that Holy Gita also creates pro-work attitude, patient-centered care, and preceptive leadership in doctors. It is the best tool for anger management, they pointed out.
 
 The researchers were drawn from the following medical institutions within and outside India: Bharti Hospital, Karnal, Haryana, Bhakti Vedanta Hospital and Research Institute, Mumbai, University of Kansas Medical Centre, Kansas, USA, Amity University, Rajasthan, Excel Center, Guwahati,  , Hyderabad, MLN Medical College, Allahabad, Diabetes Obesity Thyroid Clinic, Gwalior, Mitford Hospital, Dhaka, Bangladesh, AIIMS, New Delhi, ADK Hospital, Male, Maldives, PGIMS, Rohtak, Haryana, Aga Khan University Hospital, Karachi, Pakistan, Christian Medical College and Hospital, Ludhiana, CHL Hospital, Indore, and Fortis Hospital, Mohali.
 
 “Verses from the Bhagavad Gita… help define a good clinician's skills and behavior. Using the teachings of Lord Krishna, these curated verses suggest three essential skills that a physician must possess - excellent knowledge, equanimity, and emotional attributes. Three good behaviors are pro-work ethics, patient-centered care, and preceptive leadership and they supported by thoughts written in the Gita,” the researchers observed while explaining how the ancient Indian Scripture works particularly on medical professionals in the modern-day stressful work atmosphere.
 
 Stating that doctors are faced with a number of challenges in hospitals, the researchers pointed out that modern day work pressure had created a combination of social, environmental, academic, medicolegal, and professional issues. “These challenges may have a negative impact on physician health – physical, psychological, and spiritual. Stress, frustration, and dejection work together produce a state of compassion fatigue and burnout, which in turn impairs self-health as well as delivery of health services to patients,” they said adding that the Holy Gita would provide the solution to these problems.
 
 The study revealed that the Holy Gita would serve as an expert physician teacher to help health-care professionals optimize their health. “Such guidance, delivered with the strength of experience, will be accepted with the confidence of trust,” it added.
 
 
