JAIPUR:   Dam Intake Pump House which was shutdown for maintenance for two days will be re-opened on Wednesday. The shutdown was announced between 11:30 am to 7:30 pm for April 3 and 4, but the maintenance work was completed before time on April 3 by 6:30 pm. Hence, with some minute difficulties, the dam water will reach to the people of Jaipur on April 4.

 According to  , additional chief engineer of  , said that after this maintenance, the inconvenience caused to the people of Jaipur will be lessened. Every year, government of Rajasthan spends around seven crore rupees on the maintenance. But even after spending such hefty amount, some areas in Jaipur are still suffering with shortage of water.
 
 In the Sindhi Colony of Jaipur, water pressure is so slow that many houses have got two to three water connections. “Wherever you go in this colony, you will find people ordering for water tankers every day even after having two connections in their house. In summers, the situation becomes worse. One tanker cost around Rs 250-300 and it’s an additional burden on us but we have no option, as the water pressure is so low,” said  , a resident of Sindhi colony.
 
 The situation is same in   in Jaipur. As the water pressure is low, the water stealing incidences have increased in the area. According to the residents of both the colonies, people use different kinds of machines to increase the pressure in their house because of which the water pressure goes down even more.
 
 Suman Jangid, a resident of the Bhrampuri Colony, said, “We used to bring water but the condition in my mother’s house is bad. There are machines that can help you suck the water of neighbours’ tank and people are using all that over here. To certain extent you cannot blame the residents as the water supplied is not enough for our consumption. The flats in the areas have even worse situation and have to call one-two water tankers every day.”
 
 When asked about the situation, Dinesh Saini, said, “We are aware of the problems and there is a new water distribution scheme which was sanctioned recently. Under this scheme, new pipelines will be laid in these areas that will solve the problems. We are also planning to increase the water quantum from the Bisalpur dam which will end the water shortage. Regarding the water theft we have made vigilance teams who have power to fine people caught doing such acts.”
 
 
