LUDHIANAa: The local bodies department has recommended to the State Election Commission February 28 as the date for the municipal corporation elections.

 The development comes two days after chief minister Captain   announced that polls will take place before February 24 and results will be announced on February 26. The schedule for filing nominations, their withdrawals, election and results will be issued by the State Election Commission.
 
 Meanwhile, the political parties have swung into action. They are now giving final touches to the list of candidates. Once the election commission issues the schedule, they will announce the names.
 
 The opposition parties are also awaiting the high court hearing against irregularities in ward delimitation.
 
 SAD’s district president   said they were prepared for the elections and have completed interviews of the aspirants. “Final names will be announced once election commission gives the schedule,” he added. 
 
  district general secretary Rajnish Dhiman also said they were all set and on February 3 and 4 they would conduct interviews and forward the list of selected candidates to the state core committee to make the formal announcement.
 
 District president of the Aam Aadmi Party Daljit   said their candidates were final, but they were waiting for the HC hearing on February 5, when arguments over ward delimitation would be heard. He said in case the court does not give any decision against ward delimitation, they would announce their candidates. Regarding poll preparations, Grewal said public meetings and campaigning were on. 
 
 Lok Insaaf Party MLA Simarjit Bains said they have firm faith in the judiciary though they were ready for every situation. In case their writ petition was disposed of, they would fight the situation through elections, he said, adding that voters were fed up with the   government and they would give AAP-LIP alliance a chance. 
 
 Electoral rolls will be published on Feb 3 
 
 Deputy commissioner   said they would complete the process of looking into objections by Wednesday evening and Thursday onwards the electoral rolls will go for publication. He said they would issue the final rolls on February 3. Regarding notification, the DC said now when the government has given its mandate for polls, the election commission will ask the district administration if electoral rolls were final. As soon as the commission will issue the schedule for polls, code of conduct will be imposed, he added.
 
 
