SURI: Lili Bibi doesn’t want   under the  . The   and mother of a one-year old daughter wants insaf (justice) under the laws of the land after the way her husband insulted her in presence of her in-laws and uttered ‘teen talaq’ to end the marriage.

 Dubrajpur police, however, could not enforce the ban on instant triple talaq and arrest the husband for giving triple talaq when the Bill passed in the Lok Sabha is yet to become an Act. “We have initiated a case under Section 498A of the Indian Penal Code. Investigation will continue under this section,” said Birbhum police superintendent N Sudheerkumar.
 
 Another Ishrat Jahan — the estranged housewife from Howrah’s Pilkhana who moved the Supreme Court urging a ban on instant triple talaq — the Dubrajpur woman is also adamant. Lili didn’t listen to advice from some among her community to settle the dispute with her husband Sher Khan with help of a local clergy. “I want insaf. I don’t want to go back to my husband who didn’t even think before leaving me in the lurch,” she said.
 
 The 27-year old bidi binder now repents for falling in love with construction worker Sher Khan and marrying him against her family’s wishes. “I loved him and left home two years ago despite warnings from my family members. My husband never took care of me. Why should I go back to him? I am ready to take the trouble and accept whatever the law says,” Lili said.
 
 Narrating her plight, the Dubrajpur housewife recounted how her mother-in-law Sabera Bibi drove her out of the house six months ago, forcing the couple to stay at a rented accommodation. “My mother-inlaw didn’t let me live in peace. She continued to put pressure on me demanding money and dowry from my family. Last Friday, my in-laws tried to snatch my only possession — a pair of ear rings. There was major trouble when I put my foot down. My husband then cursed me with instant triple talaq,” Lili said.
 
 Lili’s uncle Saddam Mollah doesn’t see any possibility of reconciliation. “My niece is very resolute. She will do what she thinks is right. We had it when we tried to prevent her from leaving home with Sher Khan. She didn’t perform any ritual during marriage, neither was any ritual held at her in-laws’ house. But Lili took it all in her stride. Now she is averse to accept any mediation from a clergy to resolve the dispute,” he said.
 
