CHENNAI: Army officers can now play tactical   on   involving virtual reality and robotics to hone their skills as part of   as Secunderabad-based Simulator Development Division of the Indian Army has recently inducted a tactical simulator and a virtual reality-based training system.

 A senior Army officer said, “Tactical simulators allow officers to train in different war scenarios. These scenarios are recreated and all officers can use them to train themselves. Also there are systems from basics to the most advanced to assess capability. Some can assess the posture during firing and tell whether it’s good or bad, while others can assess the   and tactical skills.”
 
 
  
 
 The system was inducted last year and is a step ahead of the kind of simulators which are being used for firing practice and other war exercises. The Simulator Development Division (SDD) which received a citation for outstanding performance has developed world class products, including niche products like first tactical simulator for mechanised forces, first virtual reality-based training system, integration of various simulator domains and others.
 
 The citation awarded to SDD, which has been producing simulators for the last 10 years, says, “It has quickly adopted to the additional role of providing robotics and progressive innovations to enhance combat potential of Indian Army.” After an investiture ceremony held to award citations to the best performing training units at   (OTA) on Friday, General Officer Commanding-in-Chief of Army training command (ARTRAC) Lt General M M Naravane told TOI, “The complexity of a simulator was rudimentary but with IT skills the simulators have become as good as real situation.”
 
 He also said that Army Training Command has stepped up simulator training for various divisions as part of an effort to boost training and to avoid the cost of using ammunition, rockets, missiles, helicopters and others. “Around 30% to 40% of the cost can be saved by using simulators. The rockets and missiles cost lakhs and crores of rupees. These need not be fired for training purpose. It also gives them exposure,” he added. “Earlier, simulation meant projecting different scenarios on a screen. Now, it has gone beyond. The helicopter simulator now has the sound of the engine in trouble, the title and other movement,” he added.
 
 Lt Gen M M Naravane gave away the prestigious Unit Citations to four Category ‘A’ Establishments for their outstanding performance during the training year 2016-17. The recipients of this year’s prestigious GOC-in-C ARTRAC Unit Citation were Army Service Corps (ASC) Centre & College, Bengaluru, Combat Aviation Army Training School (CAATS), Nashik, Simulator Development Division (SDD), Secunderabad, and Special Forces Training School (SFTS), Nahan.
 
 
