MANGALURU: Two of the recent murders, including that of Deepak Rao and Ashraf Kalayi, have led to communal enmity and clashes in Dakshina Kannada district, as a direct result of issues related to  ,   and  . Considering this, the government is contemplating on enforcement of a strict law to prevent political parties and religious organizations from violating rules. 

 The murder of Rao, who was hacked to death at Katipalla, is also said to have been linked to an altercation related to buntings. SDPI local unit president Kalayi too was hacked to death at Benjanpadavu on June 21, for a similar reason. The incident had led to tension in Bantwal, and prohibitory orders under Section 144 of CrPC was clamped for many days there. However, the police is yet to ascertain the actual motive behind the murders. 
 
 Minister   said the government is considering enforcement of the law strictly, and to take appropriate action in this regard. “Strict enforcement of laws with regards to displaying of flexes, banners and buntings will help in reducing the communal friction in the region. The matter will be discussed and a decision in this regard will be taken soon,” Khader said. 
 
 On political parties erecting flexes and hoardings of leaders including Khader, the minister said he has opposed it in his constituency – Mangaluru. “I personally directed the Ullal town municipality to remove a flex with my picture on it, that I saw in my constituency recently. I have told party workers and well-wishers not to put flexes and banners with my pictures, on them” he added. 
 
 Meanwhile, a complaint seeking police intervention into the menace of flexes, banners and buntings, has also been submitted to the director general of police and inspector general of police Neelamani N Raju, by social activist Shashidhar Shetty from Mangaluru. 
 
 Shetty in his complaint, has urged the police department to take action against organizations that violate rules. 
 
 “As per a government circular dated March 11, 2016, placing flexes, banners, buntings and other plastic materials in public places is banned in the state. We have been witnessing instances of communal clashes when the orders have been violated by political parties, religious and social organizations. Several silly altercations related to putting up flexes, banners and buntings have led to communal tensions in the district. Hence, the police department should direct all police stations to ensure that no flexes, banners and buntings are used in their jurisdiction,” Shetty urged the DGP and IGP. 
 
 Gazette notification
 
 The state government on March 11 issued an official gazette notification stating a complete and total ban on plastic and all plastic and thermacol products in the state. The notification makes specific mention that plastic, no matter its thickness, will be banned across the state.
 
 The notification cites: "No shopkeeper, vendor, wholesale dealer, retailer, trader, hawker or salesman shall use plastic carry bags, plastic banners, plastic buntings, flexes, plastic flags, plastic plates, plastic cups, plastic spoons, cling films and plastic sheets for spreading on dining tables, irrespective of thickness, including the above items made of thermacol and plastic, which use plastic micro beads.”
 
 The notification also bars manufacturers from producing the aforementioned plastic products, storing, supplying or transporting the same. 
 
 
