NAGPUR: The central government has time and again demonstrated that it was not afraid of taking up challenges as the major experiments done in the past few years showed that the policies on various fronts were clearly aimed at making a positive difference to the economy. Demonetisation, Goods and   (GST) and bankruptcy code are some of the policies which reflected on government’s resolve, said  , a chartered accountant from Mumbai, on Tuesday.

 Reintroduction of long-term capital gains (LTCG) tax in the union budget after a span of 14 years clearly indicated the determination with which the government was going ahead with reforms, Vajani said, while delivering a talk on ‘Impact of direct tax on public and trade’, organized by newly formed Jain   Organization (JITO) at Chitnavis Centre, Civil Lines. 
 
 Jaideep Merchant, a CA from Pune, spoke on ‘Impact on capital market and economy’. Julfesh Shah, a CA and chairman of taxation and finance committee, was present. 
 
 Vajani said that in order to replace LTCG, former finance minister   had introduced Securities Transaction Tax (STT) in 2004 at 10% which was hiked to 15% in 2009. Now, union finance minister   has brought back LTCG, but without scrapping STT, which is unfair, he said. He believed that a responsible citizen cannot expect the government to do away with taxes. But the reasons given for bringing back LTCG tax are impractical and unacceptable, he added. 
 
 Vajani said, “I strongly feel that the budget provisions are largely drafted by bureaucrats while the Prime Minister and the finance minister simply follow their advice.” He said that there are very rare chances that one can escape the tax. “If you sell your equity MF units (held for more than one year) before March 31, you can still claim tax exemption as the new regime for LTCG is effective for transactions done from April 1. But the market has already tanked more than 2,100 points and there is little scope of its revival before March 31,” Vajani said.
 
 Many chartered accountants, industrialists, traders and businessmen attended the talk to get a clear picture of the budget and know its effects on them. The brainstorming session was followed by a question-and-answer session in which people sought solutions to their business related queries. 
 
 ends
 
 
