Madurai: The residents in   in the city have alleged that that the excessive and unfair   of the   source in the area by the Madurai   has caused the drastic depletion of the groundwater level in the area, threatening their daily life. 

 Sriram Nagar near Uthankudi with more than 200 houses in the locality is part of Ward 28 of Zone 2 of Madurai City Corporation. Annexed into the City Corporation in 2011, the area purely depends on ground water sources for its water needs. But, the civic body is yet to provide the residents drinking water under any projects, the residents say.
 
 The area started developing in 1990 and there was no dearth of groundwater as the Uthankudi village tank, which is nearby, used to have water to the brim during the rainy seasons. The area developed rapidly since many people started buying lands and constructing houses.
 
 Prolonged drought in the district has taken a toll on the village tank and the groundwater level started depleting gradually. But the trouble started when the corporation under the Drought Mitigation Fund planned to dig 16 bore wells in 2016-17. A huge sump was constructed with a pumping station to fill water in the tankers.
 
 The residents staged a protest, after which the corporation authorities limited the number of bore wells to five promising the residents that water from the bore wells will be supplied only to the local residents. But an   filed by the Residents Welfare Association revealed that the corporation has provided only 34 pipelines to the area. “The number of connections would have slightly increased since the RTI was filed in 2017. When we took up this issue with the corporation officials, they said only five trucks with a capacity of 10,000 litres each will be used per day. But the tankers ferry water from early morning till midnight”, alleged association secretary P Balasubramanian.
 
 Association president A Siddiah said that the tank belonged to the Public Works Department, and the RTI filed with   revealed that the civic body has not obtained proper permission to dig bore wells in the area. “If the corporation wanted water, it should have first deepened the Uthankudi tank, raised the bunds to improve the storage capacity of the waterbody. Instead of doing any of these works, the corporation is exploiting the groundwater source indiscriminately,” he said.
 
 The residents in the area said that the groundwater level was at 100 feet when they started building their houses in 1990. The water level has gone down to 400-plus feet at present. It, once used to take just seven minutes to fill the overhead tank at houses, now takes more than one hour, they said.
 
 Assistant commissioner of Zone 2 A Palanisamy ruled out the allegations of selling water to private parties and the exploitation of the water source raised by the residents. “These bore wells are dug for drought mitigation and water drawn from the area is supplied back to the residential areas nearby. We understand the anxiety of the residents but their allegations are not true,” he said.
 
 
