KOLKATA: It’s been a relatively cool and healthy summer in Kolkata so far. The scorching heat has been conspicuously absent, and the immediate effect — apart from comfort — has been in the sharp decline of summertime illnesses, say city doctors.

 
 So far, the number of people suffering from heat fever, heatstroke, diarrhoea and heat exhaustion, the most common summertime ailments, has been markedly less than the last few years, doctors have pointed out. A reason could be the frequent occurrence of thundershowers, which kept the mercury in check, they felt. The highest temperature recorded this season has been 37.8 °C so far, the lowest temperature till May 20 since 2015. Since April, the city has been lashed by six squalls and around a dozen thundershowers.
 
 
  
 
 “I haven’t come across any heatstroke patient this time,” said senior consultant  . “The number of people falling prey to heat exhaustion has been considerably less, probably due to the lower humidity. But a fairly large number has been suffering from cough and cold, induced by the frequent temperature fluctuations. Every thundershower has been followed by a sharp temperature drop, leading to a spurt in cough-and-cold cases.”
 
  consultant   said he used to come across at least two heat exhaustion patients each day till last May. “But this summer has been pleasantly different. It reminds me of Bengaluru, where a scorching day invariably ends with a thundershower and a temperature drop. The humidity, too, hasn’t been too high, which is rare in Kolkata. These have helped curb heat-induced ailments like heat fever and heat exhaustion. The latter is very common at this time of year, since it is triggered by a prolonged exposure to the sun. This year, the afternoon temperatures have been moderate, often as low as 32°C,” Banerjee said. It’s come as a relief for kids as well, said paediatrician  . “Schoolchildren are the worst sufferers since most have to travel during the afternoon heat. But with the mercury sliding below 35°C this year, conditions have been bearable. Few have been affected by the heat, though the temperature variations have been leading to cough and respiratory tract infections,” said Ray.
 
 Heat rashes, scabies and foot-and -mouth disease — the common summer skin complaints — have also been rare, Ray added. The average maximum temperature in May has been lower than that of the previous three years. “So far, we haven’t had the usual long, dry scorching spell. Thundershowers have occurred every 2-3 days and kept the mercury in check,” said regional meterological centre director G K Das.
 
 
