AGRA: The answer-sheet evaluation process for the final exams of the session 2017-18 at  , conducted in March this year, have been completed, according to the university administration. The university has warned the 300 colleges under it, which are yet to submit their marks for practical exams or examination fees, of strict action. It said that the results of such colleges will not be declared and those submitting the marks or the pending fees after June 10 will be penalised.
 
  A control room has been set up by the university to assist colleges with the process. According to the university PRO, results should be out by June 15. The university administration is looking to wrap up the session as early as possible so it can focus on the admission process for the next session and implement the academic calendar for it, which was released on Friday.
  
  The university had initially planned to complete the practical exams before the main exams started. In January, it had said that the practicals would be conducted from January 8 to February 7 for undergraduate courses and from February 8 to 15 for post-graduate courses. The plan was to finish off the practical exams before the main exams so that they won’t cause delays in the result declaration. However, it was implemented in only half a dozen colleges out of the 1,000 colleges affiliated to the university. This year, the final exams had commenced on March 7 and ended on April 27.
  
  The university’s public relation officer, GS Sharma said, “We have completed the entire process of answer sheet evaluation. Results of all the colleges, except those that haven’t yet submitted their practical exam details or exam fees, will be declared very soon. The colleges have been asked to coordinate with examiners and conduct the pending practical exams as soon as possible.”
  
  “A control room has been set up for the assistance of colleges. It will operate from 10:30 AM to 4:30 PM on weekdays. Any complaint registered at the control room the number ‘9457688813’ will be addressed in time.”
