KOCHI: Ever since the coming of Kochi Metro, the state government as well as various agencies, including the   (KMRL), have been struggling to promote public transport systems in the city. While the aim is to bring down the number of private cars, nothing much has been done to make it a reality. Experts monitoring the public transport scenario in the state have stressed on the need for government intervention. 

 They point out the need to have a standard guideline for designing roads and streets. While designing roads, urban planners should prioritise the need of pedestrians, non-motorised transport users and public transport above personalised motor vehicles.
 
 Madhav Pai, director, Sustainable cities,   (WRI) India said that the country taxes public transport like buses more than personalized vehicles. "The three principles to complement current initiatives in the state are completing the public transport network, improving the capacity of systems and designing for people rather than cars," he said.
 
  O P Agarwal, CEO,   said that big cities have " woes since transportation wasn't planned while the issues were smaller". Hence, there is a need for big investments like Metro rail . "Such investments need to be leveraged with better last and first mile connectivity and transit oriented development," he said.
 
 The need to restructure state's approach to mobility and also to rethink how Kerala perceives movement of people and goods throughout the state has been highlighted. According to Kochi corporation, 60% of settlements in the city are nucleated and does not have public transport connectivity.
 
 PWD minister   said that as part of the new Metro rail policy, transport oriented development (TOD) policies for three cities in Kerala are being planned. He also mentioned a plan to prepare a roadmap for e-mobility. A standard code for roads and streets in Kerala is proposed to be prepared.
 
 Meanwhile, during a two-day workshop organised by the state government and KMRL in association with WRI, the chief minister   said the government is committed to ensure that an advanced integrated world class public transportation system which provides seamless mobility becomes a reality in the state. The government hopes to showcase Kochi as a living laboratory of best practices in sustainable transport replicable across the world.
 
 KMRL has joined hands with various agencies to promote the use of public transport in the city and make it a better and safer place to live. 
 
 
