NEW DELHI: The decision to live-stream his suicide attempt on social media ended up saving a youth’s life on Monday. A friend saw the live feed and contacted the youth’s brother, who, with the help of a neighbour rescued the 26-year-old just as he had hung himself at his house near Ashram in southeast Delhi.
 
 DCP (southeast) Chinmoy Biswal said the youth was revived in hospital and was now out of danger.
 
 
  
  
 Police said the youth,   (name changed), who lives with his parents and brothers, was alone in the house at that time. He jotted down a suicide note, apologising to his parents and friends for taking the step, and then proceeded to record his final moments on Facebook.
 
 "He was under stress related to work and lack of good opportunities, and recently had a failed relationship," an investigating officer said.
 
 Verma started the live session at 1.30am. He began by narrating his problems and said he was not getting good opportunities as a freelancer. The feed had zero views till then. The number changed to one when Verma’s friend Reena, who had just returned from a late night-shift job, began watching the video.
 
 A horrified Reena saw Verma tying a noose around his neck with a blanket and saying his final goodbyes.
 
 
 
 Reena immediately contacted Aniket's younger brother Amit, who was at his friend’s place at Chhatarpur in south Delhi.
 
 "I got a call from Reena who told me about what was happening. I went on Facebook and saw the live feed. I immediately called my neighbour Tilak and asked him to help," Amit said, adding that he rushed home immediately.
 
 By then, Verma had stepped on to a chair to hang himself from the ceiling fan, even as the live feed continued. He did not respond to the numerous calls he was getting on his mobile phone. Tilak then entered the house, followed by Amit soon after. They dashed towards Verma's room and bro-The duo quickly grabbed Verma's feet and lifted him up just as he went unconscious. Amit untied the noose and come out to take his brother to hospital. He said an auto-rickske open the door.
 
 "It was a matter of moments. Had we come after a few seconds, he would have been dead. We found him hanging by the ceiling fan," Amit said.
 
  
 Doctors at the hospital found that Verma still had a weak pulse. After a few minutes of suspense, they managed to revive him.
 
 The hospital authorities informed the cops, who interrogated Verma’s brother and friends. They also inspected the live feed.
 
 
 
 
