MUMBAI: A new judge will hear the appeals in the Bombay high court in the   case from Monday. 

 According to the list of new assignments published by the high court on its website on Saturday evening, Justice Revati Mohite-Dere, who was hearing appeals in the alleged fake encounter case, has been assigned to hear bail and anticipatory bail applications Justice Nitin Sambre has now been assigned criminal writ petitions and criminal bail applications, given earlier to Mohite-Dere. So according to the list,   is supposed to hear the   case.
 
 However, if parties to the matter approach the acting chief justice and request that the same bench be asked to hear the case, the court could, at its discretion, still assign it to Mohite-Dere. Assignments are changed in a routine manner by the high court after every few months, a number of lawyers said. 
 
 "On the basis of the new assignments, Justice Mohite-Dere won't be able to continue hearing the matter. It will now go before another judge," said senior advocate Mihir Desai. "This is unless the parties agree and approach the acting chief justice with a prayer to treat the matter as part-heard so that the matter can again be assigned to the same bench that was hearing it. Justice Mohite-Dere had been conducting day-to-day hearings since February 9. A new judge will now have to hear the matters afresh. This would be a waste of judicial time," said Desai, who has earlier represented Sohrabuddin's brother Rubabuddin in the petition challenging BJP president Amit Shah's discharge from the case.
 
 Mahesh Jethmalani, counsel for Gujarat IPS officer Rajkumar Pandiyan, said he had not received any information on the change of assignment and added if it was true, there was no need to "read too much into it." "Assignments in courts change every day. There's no reason to read too much into it," he said.
 
 During the hearings, Mohite-Dere has repeatedly said the court was not getting enough assistance from the CBI. "I am still unclear on the prosecution's overall case," the judge had remarked last week. The court said despite repeated queries, the agency had not placed all evidence on record and was only arguing the role of two officials whose discharge it challenged.
 
 In January, Mohite-Dere "quashed and set aside" a special CBI court order restraining the media from publishing news about the trial. She called the press the "most powerful watchdog of society". 
 
 
