Visakhapatnam: Chief minister N Chandrababu   inaugurated the GVMC Command and Control Centre in the city, saying it would help improve real-time governance by ensuring convergence between various departments and through the information and communications technology (ICT) platform.

 Vertically- and horizontally-integrated information will also help deliver real-time governance to the public, Naidu said on Monday evening while inaugurating the CCC, after wrapping up the Partnership Summit 2018 here in the city on Monday. 
 
 The CCC was set up as part of the Vizag Smart City initiative at a cost of about Rs 140 crore. District collector and GVMC special officer Pravin Kumar and GVMC commissioner M Hari Narayanan explained the components of the CCC to Naidu.
 
 Naidu asked officials to design the architecture of the CCC in four to five layers instead of the existing two-layer architecture. “How we are going to leverage the data at the CCC and ensuring that the technology is worth the money is more important than creating the infrastructure. Take the advantage of the he data provided through various ICT devices such as air quality index, water quality and other parameters to improve the services. During the Summit, we have entered into an MoU with a start-up to produce CO2-based products,” said Naidu.
 
 The CM interacted with several residents of the city through CCC and had a chat with students of Malkapuram High School and asked them about the digital classrooms that were set up at GVMC high schools.
 
 While the city operations centre is located at the GVMC office, the secondary centre will be located at the police commissionerate. A cloud-based data centre of the CCC will be placed in Mangalagiri near the capital.
 
 GVMC commissioner M Hari Narayanan said the interim CCC was launched by Naidu in June 2016. “The CCC platform can integrate data from various devices such as surveillance cameras, pollution sensors, GPS systems and other devices installed across the city and leverage that data to make informed decisions,” he said.
 
 
