BENGALURU: Senior artist Prabhakar Rao, popularly known as  , passed away late on Wednesday after a heart attack. He was 81. 

 Raobail is survived by wife Kumudini Rao, a dancer, and two daughters — Ujwala, a doctor, and Sharmila, who lives in the US.
 
 Known in his circles as the ‘Uncommon Man’, he had been suffering from age-related ailments and a mild heart condition. “Doctors told us the medicines had stopped working and the only option was palliative care. He was discharged from hospital on Wednesday evening as he was feeling all right, but within five minutes he developed complications,” Ujwala said.
 
  Raobail was born in 1937 in Kasargod in a family of artists. He did his BSc from Central College, Bengaluru, and later acquired a diploma in applied arts from   in Mumbai.
 
 “This Uncommon Man thought his surname Rao was too common. So he made it Raobail to make it stand out. And indeed, Raobail has stood out in every field he has tried his hand at: cartooning, collage, caricature, painting and mimicry,” the Indian Institute of Cartoonists (IIC) stated. IIC had honoured Raobail with a lifetime achievement award six months ago.
 
 Raobail worked at the art department of the central office of Life Insurance Corporation of India as an illustrator-designer for over 31 years and shifted to Dharwad in 1989, before moving in with Ujwala to Bengaluru in 2013. After retirement, he contributed cartoons and illustrations to newspapers and magazines, including The Times of India, Eve’s Weekly and the  .
 
 “Ask India’s most popular cartoonists and artists, including Mario Miranda and R K Laxman, who their favourite artist was and they would name Raobail. From a man obsessed with the crowd during his days in Mumbai, he became a loner in later years,” writer Jayant Kaikini said.
 
 He was known for his attention to detail and one of his sketches shows a crowd working for a VIP — there are almost 10,000 miniature figures in it. Apart from India, Raobail held solo exhibitions in Geneva, Switzerland, and several times in Canada. 
 
 
