NAGPUR: The   paper is well balanced as it contains questions of different difficulty levels. It is important to understand application of economic theories to answer high order thinking questions. 

 Be updated with current affairs, especially   and global issues, to write impactful answers and crack the paper. Studying NCERT and supplementary reading material provided by the board is important. 
 
 Do not refer new books at the last moment. Out of the nine units, consumer and producer behaviour, market forms, national income and income determination, carry more weight. 
 
 Over the years, most students have found topics like national income and cost curves to be more difficult or confusing while concepts of demand, supply, money and banking are the ones they find to be the easiest. 
 
 Practice different diagrams and graphs till you’re able to depict the correct relation between variables. Try to find similarities in formulas to learn them easily. For example, all marginal values can be calculated as total at n-total at n-1. All Average values are total/quantity.
 
 Understand the interdependence of values, for instance, ‘behaviour of averages’ depend on ‘totals’ and ‘totals’ depend on ‘marginals.’ 
 
 Consistent practice will help you sail through tricky topics like factor incomes, net exports and net imports, components of operating surplus, compensation to employees, and gross domestic capital formation. 
 
 Allot two minutes for each mark while solving the paper. One mark questions take less time. Weigh the question content against the marks to ensure you incorporate sufficient key points.
 
 Make a frame or mind map of the answer before you start writing. Incorporate key words rather than explaining the content in your own words. Underline sub-headings, if any. 
 
 Leave at least two extra lines after each point and four-five lines after each answer. This will help add extra points while revising the paper and the answer sheet won’t be untidy. This way you will have time to recheck and edit your answer sheet.
 
 Paper Snapshot
 
 Economics (  XII)
 
 Date | March 26
 
 Time | 3 hours
 
 Marks | 80
 
 Last minute revision 
 
 Attempt all questions even if unsure
 
 Avoid confusion between investment and money multiplier
 
 Write distinguishing points in columns
 
 Correctly label the variables on X and Y axis 
 
 Support answers and definitions with examples 
 
 Expert Tips 
 
 Carry apparatus, sufficient pens, good erasers and well sharpened pencils etc.
 
 Read the textbook well 
 
 Solve previous years question papers and mock tests
 
 (The writer   is an economics teacher at Centre Point School, Katol Road)
 
 
