CHANDIGARH: Believing the government bungalow in Chandigarh “unlucky” for the party, which could not come into power in the last   in   despite performing well, the Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) leader   has surrendered the house to the government. Party was occupying the house for the past around nine years.

 The House Number 3019 in Sector 19 was initially allotted to former chief minister O P Chautala in his capacity as the leader of opposition. It was later allotted to Abhay in similar capacity. It is a type-VI house under Haryana CM pool, which is normally allotted to senior ranking bureaucrats, cops and judicial officers.
 
 Sources confirmed to TOI that INLD decided to vacate and surrender the house much before starting the poll campaign for next assembly elections because party had seen its star sink after entering that house.
 
 The house was allotted by the state government to Chautala senior in 2009 being the leader of opposition after INLD had lost power by a narrow margin to Bhupinder Singh Hooda-led  .
 
 INLD had won 33 seats, in alliance with Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), in the 90-member state assembly in 2009. At that time   could not get majority as the Congress had won only 40 seats. However, he managed to prove majority in the House after some MLAs defected from Haryana Janhit Congress.
 
 Again in the 2014 assembly polls, INLD was expecting to form government but it finished with just 20 MLAs, including one from SAD. It was recognized as the second largest party and Abhay was appointed as the leader of opposition which is a cabinet minister rank position. Abhay was re-allotted the same house by the state government as his official residence.
 
 While the Chautala family has a house in Chandigarh’s upscale Sector 9, the Sector 19 bungalow was normally being used party meetings or conferences related to party’s political activities.
 
 “After discussing with the family, friends and well-wishers, the Chautala family has decided to surrender this unlucky house. A flat in the newly-constructed building for MLAs would be used to accommodate party activities,” said a senior INLD leader.
 
 “Though we have cited shortage of parking in the Sector 19 house as the reason behind vacating it, the party does not want to face any more misfortune by staying in that house,” he confirmed on the condition of anonymity.
 
 Source in the state government also confirmed to TOI that a proposal was under process through which Abhay could be paid in cash in lieu of rent for a house as per his entitlement being the leader of opposition.
 
 
