The fast-paced urban life has taken away many traditions.   is one of them. When did you last listen to a story? If you can’t remember, here’s a chance to recollect it. ‘Remember Remember’ is a set of plays imagined and written as  . 

 Our city spaces, with their happy hours and unlimited downloads, seem to be devoid of stories, according to Prashanth Nair, a playwright from Bengaluru who directed the play. "Maybe we don’t have the time for stories, maybe we’d notice the stories if someone would convert them into memes for us. Or maybe, we don’t believe that cities can hide fairytales in plain sight. ‘Remember Remember’ explores what it means to hold on to our urban stories and fairytales," said Prashanth, one of the founders of Tahatto, a Bengaluru-based theatre group of working professionals.
 
 The 90-minute play includes five sections, separately titled ‘Watching an audience watch a play’, ‘ZenTen’, ‘The pied piper remembers’, ‘Everybody needs an imaginary friend’, and ‘The woman who lost her stories’. The team rehearsed the play for more than eight months. "Even though the script of the play was in place, it was only meant to serve as a guide for the actors and director. Each story was lovingly held, placed in geographies, given identities and relevance. The physicality, music and portrayals were all discovered on the floor by the actors, and were not dictated by the script," said Prashanth.
 
 How about the production? "Even the production design, costuming and sets have been a result of exploration and mindful styling. All this, culminating in a piece of work that is original, raw, exciting and yet doesn’t take itself too seriously," said Vikram Sridhar, a storyteller in the team. The play will also have an interactive session with the audience. "We believe that the audiences are also a part of the play. So they will also interact in their own ways in different sessions of the play," said Sridhar.
 
 The team wanted to tell the story in multiple ways, not by using the usual pattern. "So you will see a fusion of dragons, fairytales, futuristic apps, music and a lot of drama in the play," he said.
 
 Prashanth has been a playwright for more than a decade, but in ‘Remember Remember’ he is trying to include poetry, storytelling and music in interesting, compelling ways. "We have forgotten our folktales. People don’t have good storytelling sessions these days. It’s unfortunate. I am trying to revive a vibrant world of stories through this play," he said. ‘Remember Remember’ will be staged at Museum Theatre at 7pm on March 25. 
 
 
