Pune: The   in Kopargaon, about 215km from here in neighbouring Ahmednagar district, on Saturday arrested two persons for beating a 42-year-old man to death over a suspected case of   rage. The police team is on the lookout for another associate. 

 Kopargaon police inspector D S Jadhav told TOI on Sunday, “The deceased, Akbar Tamboli, who hailed from Shrirampur, had arrived in Kopargaon on Saturday evening and was on way to Dhule to attend a marriage ceremony. Tamboli was waiting for a private bus when the incident occurred. The arrested duo, Machhindra Tribhuvan (23) and Vishnu Netare (25), are from Kopargaon and work as labourers.” 
 
 An offence under sections 302 (murder) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code has been registered against the duo. Tamboli’s brother Naeem (44) has lodged the police complaint. The two suspects have been remanded to police custody till February 23.
 
 Jadhav said that around 4.30pm, when Tamboli was standing along the Ahmednagar-Manmad highway at Kopargaon, Tribhuvan and Netare brushed past him dangerously while riding a motorcycle. “Tamboli spontaneously reacted to their dangerous driving and this led to a quarrel. Soon, the duo started beating him,” he said. The officer added, “The duo stated that Tamboli had abused them. However, some onlookers said that he told the duo to drive properly.”
 
 According to Jadhav, people standing nearby intervened and the matter seemed to be resolved as the duo left while Tamboli continued to wait for the bus. Later, a group of men, including Tribhuvan and Netare, reached the spot and started beating Tamboli. “A veterinarian, who was passing by, stepped in and took Tamboli away from the spot,” Jadhav said.
 
 The veterinarian gave Tamboli some water and helped him contact a relative before leaving the spot.
 
 Jadhav said that after some time, Tamboli collapsed and was rushed to a hospital, where the medical officials declared him brought dead. Jadhav said that Tamboli’s post mortem was carried out in a hospital at Aurangabad. “We are yet to receive a preliminary post mortem,” he added. Jadhav said that the police have ascertained the identity of the third associate and will soon arrest him.
 
 
