MALAPPURAM:   is not a Lionel Messi or a Cristiano Ronaldo but he plays for Arsenal FC, and that was enough for Inzamam Ul-Haq to name his baby boy after the Turkish-origin German playmaker. The brass at Arsenal, learning of this, was impressed enough to send a two-man team to shoot a video of Inzamam, his toddler and of football crazy Malappuram in general.

 The video, titled ‘A story of a special young fan from Kerala’, was posted on the official Facebook page of the club on Saturday and has already garnered 1 lakh views on Facebook and counting.
 
 
 Inzamam, a 26-year old civil engineer from Manjeri, has been an ardent fan of the English club from childhood itself, as much for the club’s fancied attacking style as its striking red and white onfield get-up.
 
 Inzamam wants his son to become a  
 
 So, on December 29, 2017, when his wife   gave birth to a baby boy, Inzamam had already made up his mind that he would name the child after somebody in Arsenal.
 
 “Somebody suggested I should name my child ‘Arsenal’, no kidding. Others suggested the name of Arsene Wenger, former player and manager of Arsenal FC. But, I am a religious man and I was looking for a Muslim name of a player currently playing for Arsenal,” Inzamam, who himself is named after a sporting star, albeit a cricketer, said.
 
 Explaining his decision to choose the name Ozil, he said his second choice was Elneny, as that name was a “different one and nice to hear”. “But of course, Ozil was my first priority as I am a big fan of Mesut Ozil. I discussed the decision to name my son Ozil with my family and friends, and everyone was OK with it”, he said.
 
 There was a small change however. Inzamam and his family chose to name the child   instead of Mezut Ozil --‘Mehd’ means ‘instructor’, while Ozil means ‘genuine’ in Turkish.
 
 Inzamam, a local football player and a former captain of   team (Under 19 and Under 16) said that he wants his son to become a big-ticket football player like Mezut Ozil. “If he gets a chance and if he is interested, I will obviously ensure he’s coached properly”, Inzamam said.
 
