The   ceremony that was held in Mumbai on Monday saw a galaxy of Bollywood stars, fashion czars, entrepreneurs and philanthropists making their presence felt.

 The evening kicked off with a scintillating performance by singer Ananya Birla who crooned her latest single ‘Hold On’ among other hits. This was followed by a tribute to the late actress Sridevi who was supposed to be honoured with the Timeless Icon award for the evening.
 
 Meanwhile,   who floored the critics as well as the audience with his turn as the villainous Alauddin Khilji in ‘Padmaavat’ was honoured with the Entertainer of the Year award. He said, “This is my first award for playing Khilji. I dedicate it to Srideviji. Though she will be dearly missed, her legacy will shine through those she inspired.” That's not all, the actor also showcased his rapping skills by beat boxing and when in jest was asked to take off his clothes, he cheekily retorted, “Itne paise main itanich milenga,” that left the audience in splits.   received the Female Entertainer of the Year trophy for her performance as Rani Padmini in ‘Padmaavat’. The evergreen Rekha, who was honoured with the Cinematic Icon trophy, paid Ranveer Singh a huge compliment by referring to him as “one of the greatest actors of our country.” She also remembered cinematic icons like Meena Kumari, Nargis and Waheeda Rehman after receiving the award. Reminiscing about her close friend and colleague, the late Sridevi Rekha remarked, “She had a unique blessing as she ruled the movies in the south as well as the north.”
 
 Shahid Kapoor was awarded the Critics’ Choice award that was accepted on his behalf by wife Mira Rajput. Karan Johar took home the Versatile Personality of the Year trophy,   was declared the Most Stylish Man of the Year and Rajkummar Rao won the Popular Choice Award.   also made an appearance accompanying wife Gauri Khan, who received the top honour in Excellence in Design. Awards were also given out in the fields of business, fashion and philanthropy.
 
 
 
 
 Entertainer of the Year (Male): Ranveer Singh
 
  Culinary Excellence: Manish Mehrotra
 
  Excellence in Design: Gauri Khan
 
  Cinematic Icon: Rekha
 
  Corporate Excellence: Chanda Kochhar
 
  Social Enterprise: Usha Kakade
 
  Most Stylish Woman of the Year: Shweta Nanda
 
  Entertainer of the Year (Female): Deepika Padukone
 
  Outstanding Personality of the Year: Sadhguru Jaggi Vasudev
 
  Most Versatile Personality: Karan Johar
 
  Corporate Leader of the Year: Zia Mody
 
  Designers of the Year: Shantanu & Nikhil
 
  Popular Choice: Rajkummar Rao
 
  Rising Star: Kriti Sanon
 
  Artist of the Year: Sudarshan Shetty
 
  Leader of the Year: Suresh Prabhu
 
  Humanitarian of the Year: Kulsum Shadab Wahab
 
  Young Business Leader of the Year: Anand Piramal
 
  Most Stylish Man of the Year: Siddharth Malhotra
 
  Critics’ Choice: Shahid Kapoor
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
