CHANDIGARH: Panjab   won’t have   in classrooms and the departments willing to install   cameras, will have to send a separate proposal to a committee, which will work out the modalities. This was decided in the Chairpersons’ meeting here on Thursday. A committee would be formed to look into the requests of the departments. The matter came up after the chairperson of the chemistry department proposed installing CCTV cameras in the examination hall of the department. 

 According to sources, when the issue came up for discussion, president of Panjab University Teachers’ Association, Rajesh Gill, who is strongly against the idea of installing CCTV cameras, said he has been to some universities where people don’t even put up locks. He added that there should be a suitable work environment in the university built on trust. Installing CCTV cameras does not send a good message, but it implies that the departments are working on a system of mistrust. Gill elaborated that a mechanism should be devised where the departments wouldn’t feel the need to be put under surveillance. 
 
 Sources said that a chairperson suggested that the Zoology department, which already has CCTV cameras installed, should deploy security guards instead. The chairperson of the Hindi department had also sent a proposal to install CCTV cameras in the library of his department, but it turned out in the meeting that he wanted CCTV cameras because there is no manpower to look after the department library. 
 
  
 A committee was formed which also has PUTA president Gill as a member that will look into the requests of the departments seeking cameras. The committee will decide where to install CCTV cameras once they receive a request from a particular department. The committee will also decide who will control the system since it was decided that it should be centralised. 
 
 Earlier PUTA had sent a communication to the PU authorities stating, “PUTA feels that although the use of such technology has become important, still, in view of the far-reaching implications of such a sensitive issue, no hurried decision should be taken. The use of such technology must not be enforced at the cost of Right of Privacy of teachers. Various departments of University are arbitrarily installing CCTV cameras at individual level. A common policy at University level should be followed in CCTV surveillance to ensure protection of Right to Privacy as well as security of clips.”
 
 
