CHENNAI: The year 2009 was a landmark year for many in Chennai. The city witnessed its first  , with members of the LGBT (  Gay Bisexual  ) community walking out of the closet and onto the sands of Marina, with friends, families.

 
 As the city gears for the 10th year of Pride, the community, which has widened to include other diverse shades of gender and sexuality, is taking stock.
 
 “We need stigma-free access to mental and physical healthcare, and suicide prevention helplines,” said Namitha, volunteer, Tamil Nadu Rainbow Coalition, condemning attempts to ‘convert’ community members by electroshock therapy, and corrective rape. “Since there are few avenues for   people to mainstream themselves after being abandoned by families, we want reservation in educational institutions and workplaces,” she told a press conference at the Chennai Press Club on Friday.
 
 Stressing the need to sensitise healthcare professionals, sexologist Dr Kamraj said, “Though the movement has gained momentum across the world, in reality social stigma exists.”
 
 TNRC members also want among others Section 377 scrapped and the Supreme Court’s April 2014 NALSA judgment implemented by the Centre and state. “We oppose the Transgender Persons (Protection of Rights) Bill, 2016 and seek one that complies with the key points of NALSA judgment, supports self-identification,” said Nirangal founder-director Shankari.
 
 In 2009, when the Delhi high court struck down Section 377, many came out of the closet. “The years that followed saw many community events being held, and people began openly talking openly about the issues,” said Jaya, Sahodaran general manager. The SC verdict of 2013 made homosexuality a crime again. “It brought back the old environment, with people going back to the closet,” said Jaya.
 
 But the movement continued to march forward. “When I attended the Pride March for the first time in 2010, I wore a mask as I was scared. But as I met more people, I got to accept who I am,” said   freelance make-up artist Yesu Raja. By the 2014 Pride, the mask was off, and he came out.
 
 “With more resources available, young people are now figuring out their identity earlier,” says Vikranth Prasanna, founder of Chennai Dost which in 2011 launched Chemistry Clubs for LGBT students in city campuses and rural Tamil LGBT wing, Maghizvan Manram, to reach out to other parts of TN.
 
 However, barriers remain. “The stigma is still there; we have clubs in 11 city campuses but in some colleges the management is not aware of it,” says Vikranth. “Few corporates have   policies and the ones that have do not fully implement it.”
 
 For the transgender community, there have been a lot of positives, with the TN government providing free sex reassignment surgeries and land pattas, and political parties including TG welfare in election manifestoes, feels Kalki Subramaniam of Sahodari Foundation. In 2014, SC recognised the transgender community as the third gender. “The NALSA judgment got us legal rights,” says Kalki. The SC directed the government to extend reservation for admission to educational institutions and for public appointments. The trans community is not happy with the 2016 bill. “It doesn’t have all the elements of the NALSA judgment so they want it to be withdrawn and a new bill drafted,” said advocate Adhilakshmi Logamurthy.
 
 The Chennai Rainbow Pride March will be held on June 24. For more information log onto chennaipride.net/faq
 
 
