CHENNAI:   was elevated to the role of   vice-captaincy just ahead of the   when skipper David Warner was ruled out following a ban for ball-tampering.

 
 
 
 Bhuvneshwar has done well so far and has operated quietly on and off the field with his bowling and strategic planning. He feels Warner’s absence came as a huge blow to the team but the boys had no option but to stay positive.
 
 “Warner is a huge player and his presence would have made a difference for us. But we didn’t have any control on what had happened. We had to look for a replacement and we got Alex Hales.
 
 
 
 “It wasn’t easy for us to win three out of four matches but we have proved that we have the right resources to win many more games in the coming days,” Bhuvneshwar told TOI on Saturday.
 
 SRH’s bowling attack, which is led by experienced Bhuvneshwar, is probably the best in the tournament. The likes of Rashid Khan, Shakib al Hasan, Siddarth Kaul took great responsibility and have done well in the death overs.
 
 “Yes we are lucky to have such a potent attack. There was a lot of planning behind finalising the squad and we are fortunate to have got some of the best players in our ranks. Everyone is given a specific role on the field and each individual is aware of his responsibility. We have some of the best talents, be it bowler or batsman and we always give our best. It’s important to perform as a unit,’’ Bhuvneshwar said.
 
 SRH, who lost to Kings XI Punjab in their last outing, will take on Chennai Super Kings in a super Sunday encounter in Hyderabad and Bhuvneshwar feels it’s going to a tough match given the quality of cricket that Dhoni’s boys have dished out.
 
 “CSK is one of the most balanced sides in the competition. They have very strong players in all three departments. But I would like to focus on our strengths.
 
 “This is a long tournament and we have to play plenty of matches in next one month. So, it’s very important to remain positive and I believe we have right balance in our team to carry forward the momentum,’’ the Indian pacer explained.
 
