BENGALURU:   on Friday detained a 40-year-old woman and her 20-year-old daughter on suspicion of murdering a 13-year-old girl, who they believed was possessed by an  . The duo allegedly beat up the girl, identified as Sharanya, with a metal pipe to drive out the demon and the girl eventually collapsed and died from the injuries.

 Police say Pramila Sagayam and her daughter Ramya S, both residents of Vignana Nagar near Byappanahalli, east Bengaluru, had also assaulted Sharanya about a month ago. Gayathri, 41, Sharanya’s mother, had complained to Pramila sometime ago that her daughter was addicted to the television and was constantly on her mobile phone. Pramila told Gayathri that Sharanya’s was possessed with an evil spirit and that was the cause of the addiction.
 
 Pramila allegedly convinced Gayathri that she could rid her daughter of the spirit and police say Gayathri took Sharanya to Pramila’s residence on Wednesday to be ‘cleansed’. Police claim Pramila and her daughter Ramya thrashed the girl with a metal pipe in an effort to “drive out the spirit” and the girl eventually fell unconscious.
 
 The two then took the girl back to her residence where she died shortly later. When Gayathri told Pramila that her daughter was dead, Pramila warned her not to reveal the fact to anyone. Later, Pramila complained to police alleging Gayathri had killed her own daughter.
 
 Police detained Gayathri, who as per instructions from Pramila, admitted that she had killed her daughter. But police found evidence at the scene and the injuries on the body of the girl did not tally with Gayathri’s confession. Police then zeroed in on Pramila.
 
 Police claim Pramila had tried to divert the investigation by registering a case against Gayathri. In her complaint, Pramila claimed Gayathri was angry with her daughter for constantly watching television. She claimed that in her anger, Gayathri beat Sharanya with a metal pipe which led to the girl’s death.
 
 Case cracked in 41 hours
 
 Police say the case was intriguing from the start since circumstantial evidence did not match Gayathri’s statement. Moreover, Gayathri kept changing her story. Realizing she was trying to protect the real killer, police launched an extensive investigation. After 41 hours of investigation, Gayathri and later Pramila and Ramya, spilled the beans.
 
 Police said may arrest Gayathri for misleading the investigation, but revealed she is being treated as an innocent for now.
 
 In the course of their questioning, police learnt Gayathri had separated from her husband a few years ago and was living separately with her two daughters. Her elder daughter was unaware of the incidents surrounding Sharanya’s demise.
 
 
