NAGPUR: The appeal by London-based Survival International to tourists across the world to stop visiting tiger reserves in India has led to spontaneous protests across wildlife sanctuaries and parks in Maharashtra.

 Protests continued on the second day by guides and tourists at  , Tadoba, Melghat, Navegaon-Nagzira and other parks. The guides have also launched a signature campaign against remarks by Survival International director Stephen Corry. Survival International describes itself as a human rights organization.
 
 Corry wrote an email to the global community that “India's government is illegally evicting tribal people from their forest homes. They are being forced out because the forests that they have cared for since time immemorial have been turned into tiger reserves”.
 
 He further said that “hundreds of thousands of tourists in jeeps are permitted to enter the reserves. This disturbs the tigers, gets them used to human presence (which helps poachers), and creates litter and pollution”.
 
 Corry further says, “They evicted us on the pretext that we disturbed the forest. But now there are lots of jeeps and tourism vehicles — isn’t that a disturbance for the animals? India’s tribal people are the best guardians of their forest homes.”
 
 Satpuda Foundation, a leading NGO working for tribal development and tiger conservation in Central India, shared this shocking email with the tribals from relocated villages and guides who survive on tiger reserves.
 
 “We have not given consultancy to Survival International to speak on our behalf,” said Bandu Uike, president of EDC at   in Pench. It is totally unethical to make an appeal to foreign tourists in the name of Indian tribals, he stated.
 
 Kishor Rithe, president,  , said SI’s campaign is against India and its economic development. “Our tribals are protecting the forests and reaping benefits through wildlife tourism. Tadoba earns more than Rs5 crore revenue from tourism every year and most of the money is shared among local communities,” said Rithe.
 
 The Travel Operators for Tigers (TOFT), a global initiative to save tigers and their forests across the Indian subcontinent, involving travel operators, parks, communities, and visitors, dubbed Cory’s remarks illogical. TOFT member Aditya Dhanwatey said, “It is a disregard to India, which has always protected tribal rights. Maharashtra has set the best example in relocation, and tribals are themselves coming forward to get out of the parks. TOFT will issue a statement condemning the appeal.”
 
 Young naturalist   said, “Maharashtra has set the best example of coexistence. Many tribals are voluntarily going in for relocation as they know there is no future for their kids by living deep inside the forests. Many rehabilitated tribals are working as guides and get indirect employment due to wildlife tourism.”
 
 The protest against the London NGO continued on Friday at Sillari, Tadoba, and Melghat. A signature drive was started demanding action against the NGO by the Indian government. Guides said there are no forced eviction of tribals in Pench.
 
 The Navegaon-Nagzira Tiger Reserve was closed for tourism on Thursday, yet guides gathered at Mangezari to stage protests. On Friday, the guides held separate meetings under conservationist Mukund Dhurve at Pitezari and Chorkhamara gates to condemn SI.
 
 “We get employment from wildlife tourism. This livelihood has come after long effort of conservation. What is the problem with Survival International?” asked guide   from Bor.
 
 “We condemn the SI campaign and appeal to foreign tourists that our tribals are happy and their livelihood comes from tourism and conservation, and not from bush meat like Africa,” said wildlife photographer Sarosh Lodhi. 
 
 Assistant director of Satpuda Foundation Abhijit Dutta said SI’s stand will be explained in all parks in the region. “The opinions of tribals will be communicated to the global community,” he added.
 
 
