In the latest episode of  , the contestants took out their anger by punching on the photos of the members whom they hate the most.

 The episode started with the song ‘De Dhakka’. Some of the housemates danced on the song but suddenly they realise that the water supply to the Bigg Boss house is disconnected. This was because they had to continue their previous day task, Thembe Thembe Tale Sathe.
 
 An injured Sai was called by Bigg Boss in the confession room to know if she was fine and whether she is fit to play the task. But Sai tells Bigg Boss that she is unable to continue with the task and that she also has a severe back pain.
 
 Bigg Boss then asked Sai to play the task by helping the team in making strategies.
 
 Both the teams were asked to fill their respective drums with water. Bigg Boss even announced that the contestants shouldn’t harm themselves and others while performing the task.
 
 The task started after the buzzer. Both the teams could be seen applying physical strength and not making any strategy. During the task, Pushkar too got injured. As a result Sai asked Pushkar to not play the task.
 
 Everyone was seen pushing each contestant of the opposite team. Seeing this, Bigg Boss had to finally end the task Thembe Thembe Tale Sathe.
 
 Bigg Boss asked Smita, who is the captain of the house, to check the water level collected by both the teams. Smita said that Team Rajesh had collected 5-inches water level in the drum whereas Team Pushkar collected one and a half inch water level.
 
 Bigg Boss declared Team Rajesh as the winner of the task. Then Bigg Boss warned everyone in the house to always wear the mics.
 
 The housemates were then given a very different activity. The name of this task was Vyakta Vha Mukta Vha. The contestants were asked to put the photos of the member whom they hate the most on a punching bag. They had to punch those photos with the boxing gloves and express their anger.
 
 Everyone expressed their hatred on the selective co-contestants by punching hard on their photos. But   did a shocking move during the task. Along with Resham’s photo, she put her own photo and expressed her hatred. She said she was angry at herself for choosing to come in the Bigg Boss Marathi.
 
