Ghaziabad: The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has begun construction work of a new flyover at   in   as part of the second section of   widening project, which is being undertaken from UP Gate to Dasna as part of the Delhi-Meerut expressway project. 

 The new flyover across NH-91 or  , which connects Greater Noida with Ghaziabad city, will span a length of 800 metres and will have 14 lanes comprising four separate bridges.
 
 A four-lane flyover that now serves as a   across GT Road on NH-24 will be completely dismantled. The new flyover is expected to open for operations by December 2018.
 
 “At present, we have started laying foundations for the pillars of the two bridges on either sides of the existing flyover. These two bridges will be completed by the end of April. The existing flyover will be dismantled after redirecting traffic through the two new bridges. A 400 metre stretch of NH-91 underneath the flyover will also be widened by 50 meters in order to avoid traffic congestion,” NHAI project director R P Singh told TOI.
 
 The existing flyover has a total width of 15 metres apart from footpaths on either sides. After construction, the new flyover will be 60 metres wide even though there will be no footpaths.
 
 As part of the project, two loops each will be constructed on either side of the flyover to allow vehicles to ascend or descend the flyover from the GT Road. Service lanes emanating from the flyover, which are existent, will be strengthened and refurbished to allow movement of heavy vehicles. The flyover will be located at a distance of 12.5 km from UP Gate on Delhi-Ghaziabad border. The entire Delhi-Ghaziabad-Meerut Expressway project has been divided into three parts. The first part comprises the stretch from Sarai Kale Khan to UP Gate, which is about 8.7 Km in length. The second part is from UP Gate to Dasna with a length of about 19 km while the last 22.3 km stretch is from Dasna to Meerut for which work is expected to be completed by 2020. 
 
 “There will be no traffic signals on the flyover and no criss-crossing of traffic either. Work on the second section of NH-24 widening is expected to be completed within the scheduled deadline. There had been issues pertaining to shifting of pipelines, used for transporting Ganga water, for which widening work had been stalled briefly. These modalities have been worked out following a meeting with Jal Nigam officials of UP on January 18,” said Singh.
 
 
