NEW DELHI: The death of 47 Maoists in police action in less than a week, first in Maharashtra's Gadchiroli and then in Chhattisgarh's Bijapur on Friday, is part of a larger strategy of central and state forces to deny Naxalites breathing space this summer, when they launch intensive operations. 

 
 The intensive "war" campaigns carried out by Naxalites, called tactical counter offensive campaigns (TCOC), pose a serious challenge to security forces as the targets can be varied and often carry an element of surprise that gives the extremists at least a few significant successes. The CRPF and state police forces are aggressively entering core areas where military wings of Naxalites are based in Chhattisgarh, Maharashtra, Odisha, Bihar and Andhra to make sure that the TCOC, which Naxalites began early this year, in January itself, doesn't succeed and allow them to retain currency.
 
 Earlier, the TCOC against the security forces was launched by Naxalites in March and went on till June. Counter measures are being planned. "There are coordinated operations to trace IEDs on roads, avoid ambushes and target   leaders," said a senior officer, requesting anonymity.
 
 
  
 
 All this, he said, is showing results too. Last year, 75 security personnel were killed by Naxalites till April 15, but casualties suffered by security personnel has come down to 27 this year till mid-April.
 
 Most of the operations being carried in worst affected districts are now backed by real-time intelligence and involves use of drones and other gadgets, which has resulted in government earlier this month announcing reduction in number of districts affected by   violence.
 
 Officials said that the idea is to bring maximum area out of Naxalites' control and initiate development work there.
 
 As a result of the proactive approach of security forces in the last one year, the influence of Naxalites is now restricted to only three pockets —   (having an area of around 1,200 sq km), AOB (Andhra-Odisha Border — 2,000 sq km) and Abujmaad forest area (4,500 sq km). 
 
 Officials said that they are targeting their leaders, over ground operatives and sympathisers and the Naxalites are now not able to move arms, funds and their senior leaders from one place to another.
 
 CRPF director general Rajeev Rai Bhatnagar told TOI, "Apart from operations, the administration is speeding up development work, including installation of mobile phone towers and construction of roads, besides setting up police stations in remote villages. The Naxalites are on the backfoot and we have been successful in pushing them".
 
 
 
 
