NEW DELHI: The high court on Thursday asked Delhi Police to respond to the   plea of AAP MLA  , currently in jail for allegedly assaulting chief secretary Anshu Prakash.

 Justice Mukta Gupta gave the police time till March 7 to file a status report and issued notice to it on the plea filed by Jarwal against a sessions court order denying him bail.
 
 Appearing for the MLA, senior advocate Rebecca M John told the court that the investigation in the matter is over and no further custody is required by the police, yet the special court rejected Jarwal’s bail plea.
 
 The senior lawyer also brought up the issue of delay in lodging FIR, arguing that the sessions judge “failed to appreciate that the FIR was registered at 1pm on the next day, which constituted substantial delay given the fact that the complainant (Prakash) himself is at a powerful position with direct access to the highest officials of Delhi Police. Therefore, the FIR is a clear afterthought and motivated to falsely implicate the petitioner and others.”
 
 In his bail plea, the Deoli MLA pointed out that the sessions court had made a general remark while denying him bail that he may influence the witness being in power. “However, she (sessions judge) has failed to consider the fact that the complainant (Prakash) is a powerful bureaucrat and is an extremely influential person himself, with access to the highest levels of government and bureaucracy,” the plea pointed out adding that he is a sitting MLA and not a hardened criminal.
 
 Jarwal, who was arrested on February 20, is in a 14-day judicial custody in the case relating to the alleged assault on Delhi’s chief secretary during a meeting at CM Arvind Kejriwal’s residence on the night of February 19. Delhi Police have also arrested MLA Amanatullah Khan.
 
 The special court had refused to grant bail to Jarwal and made strong observations that the situation could not be more alarming when lawmakers do not respect the rule of law.
 
 A magistrate had on February 23 refused to grant bail to Khan and  , in the assault case saying the matter cannot be treated in “a casual and routine manner” while dubbing them as “history-sheeters”.
 
 Khan has not yet challenged the magisterial court’s order denying him bail.
 
 Both the MLAs were on February 22 sent to 14-day judicial custody by the court. While Jarwal was arrested on February 20, Khan, an MLA from Okhla, was taken into custody the next day.
 
 
