PATNA: RSS chief  , who reached Jayaprakash Narayan International Airport here on Tuesday, left for Nawada where he will participate in an educational training session of the organisation.

 
 During his stay in Nawada till May 24, Bhagwat is scheduled to interact with around 600 RSS workers. A 20-day ‘Sangh Shiksha Varg’ is underway in Nawada. At the Varg, RSS workers get an opportunity to interact with senior functionaries of the organisation. 
 
 “The session in Nawada is part of first and second year training of the RSS workers. Around 600 trainees from across the state are attending the session. They will be briefed about the working of the organisation, discipline and other aspects,” said a senior RSS functionary.
 
 Meanwhile, the opposition parties have traded guns on ruling   for Bhagwat’s visit to the state, alleging that his last visit to the state in March-April this year had sparked communal tensions in at least eight districts in the state. The communal unrest, they said, began in the last week of March and continued till Ram Navami celebrations in the first week of April.
 
 Taking a potshot at CM Nitish Kumar,   national vice-president   said, “Nitish, not so long ago, used to talk about ‘Sangh-mukt Bharat’. However, he has now surrendered himself to the Hindutva ideology of   and RSS. Despite his secular image, he is keeping mum even though communal politics practised by Amit Shah and   has gripped the state.”
 
 Acting president of Bihar Pradesh   Committee Kaukab Quadri said it’s not co-incidence that Bhagwat has chosen to visit Nawada, the parliamentary constituency of senior BJP functionary and Union minister Giriraj Singh, who talks only about Hindutva. “Nawada had also witnessed communal clashes in March. The CM would be held responsible if any untoward incident happens there this time,” Quadri added.
 
 JD (U) has, on the other hand, defended Bhagwat’s visit. “Since RJD and Congress functionaries are jobless these days, they have resorted to issuing baseless political statements. Bhagwat had visited Bihar on numerous occasions in the past. The CM knows very well how to take all sections of the society along. His sole motive is ushering in development in the state,” JD (U) spokesperson Neeraj Kumar said.
 
 Incidentally, this is Bhagwat’s fourth visit to Bihar since July last year when BJP came to power in the state after CM Nitish Kumar severed ties with Grand Alliance and returned to the NDA fold. During his 10-day visit to the state in February this year to address farmers of Bihar and Jharkhand on the benefits of organic farming, Bhagwat had hit headlines for his controversial statements. “Preparing an army takes six to seven months, but we (RSS cadres) will be battle ready in two-three days...this is our capability and discipline that marks us apart,” he had said at a meeting of the RSS in Muzaffarpur on February 12. 
 
 
