COIMBATORE: Acute shortage of river sand has dealt a blow to sand truck operators. Owners of sand trucks said they have been pushed to sell their vehicles as they could not pay EMI as they had no business due to sand shortage.

 The daily necessity of sand for state’s construction activities was around 20,000 to 25,000 loads, said S  , president of  . “But now we get only around 1,500 loads,” he said. “Due to this several truck owners have come to the stage where they had to sell their trucks. I had to sell two of my trucks, as I couldn’t manage them with the meagre business today,” he added. 
 
 Secretary of Coimbatore district sand lorry owners association   said the city had around 2,500 sand trucks earlier, but now only around 500 are in operation. “Many people are forced to sell their trucks or surrender as they could not pay the dues,” he said. Mani added that the sand shortage was not a natural one and had brought about by the lacklustre attitude of the state government. “From last October, the chief minister has been saying the state would open 70 sand quarries, but it has not been done yet,” said Mani.
 
 Sand truck owners said there are around 55,000 sand trucks in the state, out of which 40,000 are now out of business. Of these trucks, 15,000 are in Chennai, Kanchipuram and Tiruvallur. Yuvaraj said the state’s online portal () to buy sand is now defunct due to staff shortage. “The chief minister had announced that B.Com graduates would be recruited to man the portal. But it has not been done,” he said.
 
 While M-sand, an alternative for river sand, seems to be taking care of the sand needs of the construction industry, the production has not been regulated, said Yuvaraj. “There is no proper equipment for producing M-sand. Till now there are only 50 registered M-sand manufacturers,” he said. 
 
 Mani said, “Several M-sand manufacturers do not wash the sand properly, which makes it unsuitable for construction use.” 
 
 As an effect of the advent of M-sand, the rate of blue metal (jalli) too has gone up, say construction workers. “As blue metal is used to make M-sand, its price has gone up by almost 50%. This is because, blue metal is diverted to make M-sand which today sells for Rs 5,000 to Rs 6,000 per unit,” said N Selvaraj, assistant secretary of Tamil Nadu AICTU Construction Workers Association. 
 
 
