NEW DELHI: A road lies between East Azad Nagar and   in east Delhi. You would be hard put to point out how these two colonies differ. But they do. East Azad Nagar is a regular colony, Kanti Nagar is an unauthorised habitation. On both sides of the divide lie decrepit buildings, congested, pockmarked lanes, festering drains and haphazard constructions.

 Except for the fact that belying expectation, Kanti Nagar does not have garbage strewn all over, it could as well have the same status as its neighbour. “In unauthorised colonies like ours, the corporation claims it can only clear the garbage, not provide other municipal services,” explained  . “But besides this, everything else is neglected here. The authorities keep passing the buck on our problems and cite lack of jurisdiction.”
 
 Obviously, there is no check on illegal construction, now banned by the Supreme Court. Most buildings here have a fourth, illegal floor, whose addition has left the primary structures creaking. Uncovered drains abound and the trucks coming to the small manufacturing units in the colony crowd out the people from the roads.
 
 Ramesh Gupta, like most Kanti Nagar residents, argued that development should not be at the prodding of the court alone. “People keep migrating to Delhi but there is no provision for housing them. That is why unauthorised colonies come up. This is all a result of the government’s lack of vision,” declared Gupta. He continued, “The court has directed a halt on illegal constructions in unauthorised colonies. After regularisation, such illegal structures will be demolished. But where will the people go? What alternative is the government providing before taking action?”
 
 For the time being, however, the   is clueless about how to implement the Supreme Court directive. While shortage of staff is a major problem in the civic bodies, they do not even have a record of constructions since no building plans are sanctioned for unauthorised colonies. “We don’t know what illegal structures have come up in Kanti Nagar,” admitted an EDMC official. “We will abide by the order of the court, but we need to prepare a comprehensive plan before initiating any action. We need to examine the court order more thoroughly to understand what needs to be done.” 
 
 The corporations undertake only to clear the garbage in unauthorised colonies but offer no civic services. All development work in such colonies falls under the ambit of Delhi government’s various departments. Several resolutions were moved in EDMC to allow councillors to spend their local area development funds for projects in the area, but nothing much has happened.
 
 
