KANPUR: In a script taken straight away from Bollywood block-buster 'Hum Dil De Chuke  ' wherein a man helped solemnise his wife's marriage with her  , barely three months after his wedding with her. 

 
 The Sanigwan village under the limits of Chakeri police area of the district on Wednesday played host to the wedding when   alias Golu helped solemnise the marriage of his wife -Shanti with her lover Ravi, a resident of   area of Lucknow. 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Sujit, native of Sanigwan, married Shanti of   area of the city on February 19. The wedding was solemnised as per the rituals. However, after living for a fortnight, Shanti, over some pretext left her in-law's place for her parents' place. "It was when Shanti did not return for quite long, Sujit approached her and asked her about the cause of not returning home. Initially, she skipped Sujit's queries, but finally one day she broke down and confided with him that she was in love with a Lucknow guy and was married to Sujit against her will," said sources further. 
 
 Sujit, on learning this got little bit of perturbed but later he promised her to get her married to her beloved and in the process convinced her parents too. 
 
  "Thereafter, he met Ravi, who too confessed that he and Shanti were in relationship. Seeing the turn of events, Sujit planned their marriage and then apprised the local police about the plan," said sources further. On Wednesday, they all assembled in front of   temple in Sanigwan area of Chakeri for the wedding which also witnessed a huge number of guests. 
 
 "Initially, negative thoughts were coming to my mind and I even thought of eliminating both, but had I done this, the lives of three people, besides their families would have got badly affected. So after discussing with elderly members of the family and locality, I came with a conclusion so that all of us can live happily," said Sujit further. 
 
 Locals of Sanigwan said that one should learn a lesson from Sujit who has done something extraoridinary. Incidents like this one is very rare, especially in the rural area.
 
 "It was a sweet and lovely gesture from Sujit's side, one will never forget him for long," said the policemen at Sanigwan police out-post.
 
