Chandigarh: Aluminum phosphide (brand name  ), an agricultural pesticide implicated in many suicides, is forest department’s recommended tablet for termite control under the Greening Chandigarh action plan. Local horticulturist Rahul Mahajan has reminded the UT agriculture director via a letter that this bug killer is banned for public use.

 The letter, a copy of which is with TOI, states that “last year, different chemicals were included in the action plan”. Many “Celphos suicides” have been reported from Chandigarh as well but inadequate information on pests and diseases in the action plan suggests to Mahajan that the forest department has not updated itself. Celphos is restricted-use pesticide for the past more than 20 years. Only the Food Corporation of India (FCI) or licensed procurement agencies can use this tablet for wheat storage.
 
 The Central Insecticides Board and Registration Committee (CIBRC) has also put this tablet are under the restricted-use category. “The committee has banned it for public use throughout India. It can only be used by pest-control operators. Its open sale and storage is an offence,” Mahajan wrote.
 
 He says that even though Chandigarh aspired to be first organic city, the concern wasn’t reflection in the entire text of the Greening Chandigarh action plan. “On the one hand, the UT is promoting organic farming and markets, while on the other hand, it recommends tablets that are a risk to human life,” his letters says. “The department also recommends chlorpyriphos, which is safe, but aluminum phosphide also produces poisonous fumes when it comes into contact with water.”
 
 Chief forest conservator Santosh Kumar said that he would get it checked if Celphos was still being recommended. Experts say the restricted-use label calls for extreme precaution. “This is highly poisonous chemical that should be used only under guidance,” Panjab Agriculture University entomology (insect science) department head Pardeep Kumar Chhuneja told TOI.
 
 
