SHIMLA: The   has constituted a special investigating team (SIT) to ensure the eviction of encroachers from the government and forest land in the Shimla district.

 The court has directed the SIT to evict 13 people who have encroached upon approximately 2,800 bighas of the government land and to submit the compliance report by next date of hearing on May 9.
 
 The SIT includes Shimla additional deputy commissioner Debasweta Banik (IAS), Daroh Police Training College principal Soumya Sambasivan (IPS), Talland chief conservator of forest (EAP) Alok Nagar and Rohru divisional forest officer C B Tashildar.
 
 While hearing the matter on Wednesday, a division bench of acting Justice Sanjay Karol and Justice Tarlok Singh Chauhan, however, said the SIT was being limited only to the 13 cases as aforesaid for the time, and therefore in cases of other encroachments, the officers concerned shall continue to evict the encroachers as per the directions already passed by this court from time to time and report compliance on the next date of hearing.
 
 On the basis of affidavit filed by principal chief conservator of forest (forest management) A C Sharma, the court had noticed on April 11 that in Rohru sub-division, itself, at least 13 cases of encroachment of over more than 100 bighas stood identified.
 
 During the previous hearing, the   was persuaded by advocate general Ashok Sharma, not to pass any orders constituting a SIT for the removal of at least 13 such encroachers from forest land, with the assurance that the state itself would take adequate steps and measures in ensuring their removal at the earliest and possibly within a period of two weeks from then. But on Wednesday, the district administration sought more time.
 
 The court said it was not inclined to accept the explanation furnished by the Shimla deputy commissioner seeking extension of time by three months. “The least that was expected of the respondents was that they could have by now evicted if not all, at least majority of the encroachers in the 13 cases, as referred to in the aforesaid order, wherein encroachment was admittedly found to be on more than 100 bighas of land,” it added.
 
 The division bench also observed that the court from time to time had been adversely commenting on the functioning of the officials of the respondents and even now when the respondents had chosen not to evict even a single encroacher, this only reflected a half-hearted attempt, lack of courage of conviction, requisite departmental desire or determination or will of these officials to implement the orders of this court.
 
 The HC said it was well known that in order to achieve any extraordinary result, one was required to have a strong will, firm determination, and burning desire. “All the three master components are wholly absent, rather conspicuously lacking in these officials. Therefore, in the given circumstances, we are left with no other option, but to constitute a special investigating team to carry out eviction,” it added.
 
 
