BENGALURU: The  , which was free of sloganeering, has some announcements that has brought cheer across the country with Bengaluru being no exception. 

 
 Brining back of  , to covering 50 crore people under insurance for hospitalisation (Rs 5 lakh each family), a slew of sops to MSMEs among other things will also see  . However, lack of clarity on banning of  , increase in customs duty and poor implementation of several big ticket projects like Smart Cities, Digital India and Make-In-India will also have its effect on the city.
 
 However, getting into specifics of what Bengaluru gets shows clearly that the two big infrastructure projects—sub-urban rail network and the metro rail links—have priority, while the city’s scientific institutes also have something to cheer about.
 
 While the sub-urban rail project has got Rs 17,000 crore outlay, Bengaluru will also get a pie of the Rs 15,000 crore earmarked for the expansion of metro rail links across the country. 
 
 The centre hopes to add 190-km of metro rail service in the coming year, of which nearly 13 km will be in Bengaluru. Most of the funding for metro projects in the country are already cleared by the Cabinet and the mention in the budget only ratifies it, and the budget specifically mentions that the funds will go towards: “Phase-2 civil works to start in all four extensions of Bengaluru Metro.”
 
 Federation of Karnataka Chamber of Commerce and Industry (FKCCI) President K Ravi, said: “The big announcement for Bengaluru is only the sub-urban rail. In fact, in our pre-budget meeting with Mr Goyal (railway minister Piyush Goyal) we had mentioned the need for expedition of the project and we are glad that it has found a mention in the budget.”
 
 Ravi also pointed out of that the city is likely to benefit from several other schemes announced by the finance minister, which infrastructure expert V Ravichandar echoes.
 
 ‘Overall I think the budget has the party’s priorities in place with the farm sector getting a lot of sops, given the upcoming elections. There are several gaps that will need further deliberation and some other schemes that will need strong implementation. And both such schemes will impact Bengaluru, like the crypto-currency and blockchain ban, which will hurt innovation, or the insurance scheme which will see state contributions and so on,” Ravichandar said.
 
 The budget has given a boost to some R&D initiatives in the science, technology and engineering sectors in the city. 
 
 As part of the Centre’s research and development initiatives in IT, electronics and CCBT (Convergence Communications & Broadband Technologies), the budget has made provisions Indian Nanoelectronics User Programme, which will see 300 users at IIT-Mumbai & IISc Bengaluru. The IISc will also get a research park, one of the six in the country.
 
 In a bid to enhance competitiveness in the Capital Goods sector, the budget has cleared setting up of eight centres of excellence (CoEs), including two in Bengaluru—one each at IISc and the Central Manufacturing Technology Institute (CMTI). The two institutes will also see two of the nine Common Engineering Facility Centres (CEFCs) proposed to be set up across the country.
 
