PUNE: If you are finding the heat already a bit unbearable, the next two weeks are likely to get even hotter. The   ( ) has forecast a 2-4 degrees rise in the average day temperature this week and the next in most parts of the country, including  . 

 
 
 The met department has also predicted that close to 25% places in Vidarbha are likely to experience heatwave conditions till April 30.
 
 As per model forecasts run at IMD, the maximum temperatures are likely to be above 40°C over the plains of northwest India and central India between April 27 to May 3. However, officials said that no major heat wave spell is expected over any part of country during the next one week, except at one or two places over Vidarbha and the plains of northwest India.
 
 
 
 
 Maximum temperatures may rise further from May 4 to 10, going above 40°C in most parts of the plains of northwest India, central, east and north peninsular India.
 
 A senior met department official told TOI that the next two weeks show a warming abnormality with the average day temperatures expected to rise by 2-4° in parts of Maharashtra as well most parts of the country, except the eastern belt and Kerala. “The rise in the average weekly daytime temperature may even go up 4-6° in some parts of the country. This refers to the average warming trend during the entire week, while the rise in day temperature may be less or more each day,” he said.
 
 The official said the rise in temperatures during the next two weeks will be aided by the northwesterly wind pattern, as winds are now blowing from the hotter regions of Pakistan and northwest India.
 
 Sources from Skymet Weather Services confirmed that Maharashtra may continue to feel the heat. “No relief seems to be in sight as no significant weather system is expected to form over the state. Hot and dry winds from south Rajasthan and Balochistan would continue to blow over north Madhya Maharashtra, Marathwada and Vidarbha, which will keep the temperatures above 40°C in some parts,” a source said.
 
 Meanwhile, the day temperature in Pune is expected to hover between 38°C and 39°C over the next few days.
 
 
