MUMBAI: Several offices in   saw low attendance early in the day as   brought   to a halt. Several college students who were to appear for exams also could not make it on time. “Many of my colleagues from Ulhasnagar and Kalyan called to say they couldn’t leave for office once they heard of the disruption. They were scared,” said Dhaval Desai, an executive with think tank Observer Research Foundation at Nariman Point. And when stranded railway commuters spilled out on the roads, few aggregator cabs were available—they are on a protest since Monday. 

  
 The scale of the protest seemed to have caught railway security agencies off guard. Sources blamed failure of intelligence as the agitation seemed to have been well-planned, but security agencies expected only 250-500 protesters outside the Matunga workshop. Nearly 3,000 not only turned up, but also pelted stones at RPF and GRP personnel, injuring 15 of them. A total of 800 protesters were booked, and two arrested.
 
 Sources said it’s not a coincidence that the two protests— by cab drivers and railway apprentices— were backed by MNS unions. The apprentices were in touch with Jitendra Patil, general secretary of the Maharashtra Navnirman Railway Kamgar Sena, for over a week. After the police started lathi charge, MNS leader Sandip Deshpande took some protesters to Raj Thackeray. The MNS chief extended support to the protest, which caused cancellation of 68 local trains and rescheduling of departure of four long distance from Mumbai.
 
 Sajjan Paswan, a protester, said, “We had protested in Delhi but nobody took a notice of it. We took this extreme step as our livelihood is at stake.”
 
 Railway minister Piyush Goyal issued a statement, “We have already reserved 20% posts for apprentices.” In the assembly, CM Devendra Fadnavis pointed out that the protestors are demanding 100% quota, which will cause unrest among others. The protest was called off at 10.35 am after the CR chief personnel officer gave an assurance to take up their demands with the railway board. 
 
 “Maximum city can no longer run at maximum capacity. It's unfortunate that in one of India's most progressive city's a simple strike cripples traffic,” said Desirée Alemao, who works in Lower Parel.
 
 
