In the latest episode of  ,   tells everyone how he is unable to find his cellphone. While they all wonder where he could have kept it, Khanna accuses   of it.   refuses to believe him and asks him to apologise to her. He does so and leaves. 

 Devyani then tells the Oberoi brothers and bahus that she has prepared mango ice-cream for them. While she leaves from the main hall to go to the kitchen, she instead goes to Rudra’s room and sprays Eucalyptus oil on the pillow. When Rudra enters his room, she hides behind the door. In no time, Rudra falls asleep on the bed and Devyani picks up his gadgets. 
 
 She then brings ice-cream for Om, Shivaay,  , Bhavya and Gauri. They all find it delicious. Just then, Rudra enters and informs everyone that it’s not only his phone but also his laptop and tablet which are now missing. Khanna again enters the picture and shows Shivaay a video of Devyani stealing the gadgets. Devyani explains that she wanted Rudra to have sound sleep and hence, she hid the gadgets under the bed. Rudra goes to check and finds them lying there. When he informs Shivaay of the same, they make Khanna apologise to Devyani nani again. 
 
 Later at night, Devyani decides to leave the mansion with a paper rolled in her dupatta. Shivaay stops her and she tells him she came out for a stroll since she was feeling cold in the room. Shivaay asks her to wait and then gets her an expensive pashmina shawl. He makes her sleep comfortably. This makes Devyani emotional. 
 
 Next day, when the Oberoi brothers and bahus are in the kitchen, Devyani, who had been missing since morning, enters with Tulsi plant. She tells them they would make Tulsi tea today as it is good for health. They are all smiles. Just then, Dadi returns home. Left with no choice, Devyani plans to escape. While Shivaay, Om and Rudra along with their wives are talking to Dadi, Devyani escapes.
 
 She is caught outside by Khanna but she manages to trick him. Inside the mansion, when Shivaay tells Dadi about her friend, Devyani, who is staying with them, Dadi tells her she knows no friend by the name. Shivaay calls out for Devyani but she doesn’t come. Khanna comes and reports the matter to Shivaay. However, it is learnt that Devyani had left everything behind and not stolen anything. Shivaay realises she has taken their family photo along with her. 
 
 
