You buy that mandatory night cream and lip gloss and replenish your stock every other month to stay well groomed. But can you read the label of ingredients on your fave moisturiser? And do you know if it is safe to take an OTC supplement for your skin? To increase your awareness quotient, here are some skincare know-hows.

 
 If you want a cream with a specific ingredient, remember this – the top three ingredients on the label are in the highest concentration in any product. So, if you are looking for green tea as an active ingredient, and the product says ‘with green tea’, but it is listed ninth, know that the product claim is ‘half true’, because the quantity is negligible.
 
 
  Ingredients are listed in sequence of use. Check the percentage, too.
 
 
 
 No. Despite what DIY hacks on the internet have to say, piercing a vitamin E capsule and applying it on undereye skin is not a great idea. The capsule oil is meant for internal consumption, not as a topical   aid. It may not have any bad effect per se if used as a face pack along with other ingredients but that’s not how vitamin E is used for skincare. This beauty vitamin works best in scientific formulations along with other vitamins in different creams and masks.
 
 
  If a friend advises you to dab this capsule oil under your eyes to reduce dark circles, take this information with a pinch of salt.
 
 
 
 For the uninitiated, one gram of hyaluronic acid can hold six litres of water. This potent ingredient boosts hydration levels. So, it’s ideal for dry skin types, as it makes your skin more firm and youthful. Thanks to its soothing properties, it is also good for sensitive skin.
 
 
 If your pout is no longer plump, choose a lipstick with hyaluronic acid.
 
 
 
 Skin tends to lose its elasticity once you cross 35. In this case, having a vitamin C supplement helps in boosting collagen – the protein that gives structure to skin. Being an antioxidant, it repairs and heals skin from sun damage and other environmental aggressors.
 
 
  A safe water soluble vitamin, this one can be popped for a month or two if you feel your skin has lost its sheen. For the long run, check with a dermatologist.
 
 
 
 
 It’s hearsay, say dermats. Random news minus verified studies that cell phone can lead to or increase acne or skin allergies is not to be taken seriously. Mobiles don’t really touch the face and its usage is not linked specifically to skin issues. But well, it is a no brainer that keeping your electronic items clean is a hygienic thing to do.
 
 
  Use your cell phone without worries. You can use anti-bacterial wipes to wipe the screen clean.
 
 
 
 
