Weekend entertainment will get snazzier with two new shows, 'Naagin 3' and 'Dance Deewane', set to launch on Colors. 'Naagin 3', which returns on the channel, goes back to the mythological belief that if someone kills a naag, his beloved   will surely return to seek vengeance. This is Ruhi’s tale of retribution against her lover’s assassins who must pay for their deeds. 
Following Naagin 3 will be a unique dance spectacle, the hunt for India’s ultimate 'Dance Deewane'. The show offers three generations of dancers a chance to showcase their deewangi for dance in front of the stellar trio — Madhuri Dixit Nene, Shashank Khaitan and  . Starting today, 'Naagin 3' will air at 8 pm, followed by Dance Deewane at 9 pm, every Saturday and Sunday on Colors. 
 Promising to make the weekends delightful for viewers, Manisha Sharma, programming head of Colors, said, “We are excited about the new revenge drama, Naagin 3. As the tagline goes, ‘Is baar inteqaam ke honge saare hade paar, jab kaee roop badalkar karengi waar’, viewers will witness a bigger and newer twist in the storyline. On Dance Deewane, during the audition phase itself, the participants proved that when passion runs high, age is no bar. The jury triad makes a fantastic combination and will bring together dancers across age groups on the same stage.” 
 With its tightly-woven plot, the third season of Naagin features some of television’s popular faces like Karishma Tanna, Anita Hassanandani, Surbhi Jyoti, Pearl V Puri, Rajat Tokas, Ankit Mohan, Rakshanda Khan and Chetan Hansraj amongst others. What’s more, the ensemble cast seems to be getting along like a house on fire. During this holy month of Ramadan, the entire cast and crew got together for an Iftar party on the sets. The lavish spread that they feasted on included exotic fruit platters, kebabs and dates among other delicious delicacies. Keeping it as real as possible, the makers of the show have shot in actual locations, which includes the Shiv temples in Ujjain. A few sequences have also been shot in the picturesque palaces of Pune. Not only do the locations look spectacular, but the enhanced graphics and visual effects are sure to beguile the viewers like never before.
 With 'Dance Deewane', Madhuri Dixit Nene returns to the judge's seat, accompanied by co-judges Shashank Khaitan and Tushar Kalia, who debut in this role. Hosted by  , this first-of-its-kind dance reality show will have dancers from three age groups battle it out. Be it children, youngsters or adults, those who believe that they have the passion or deewangi for dance will get a chance to showcase their talent on this platform. From Madhuri’s whistle for her favourite contestant to Shashank’s rap songs and Tushar’s phenomenal performances with the participants whose acts move him, this show is sure to set the stage on fire. In an upcoming episode, some of B-Town's popular faces like Salman Khan, Anil Kapoor, Jacqueline Fernandes and Daisy Shah will also be seen encouraging the contestants. The shoot witnessed many special moments with Salman and Madhuri, as they recreated their 'Hum Aapke Hain Koun' magic. Madhuri and Jacqueline also grooved to the hit number Ek Do Teen, while Anil Kapoor’s limitless energy kept the vibe going. Stay tuned to watch all this and more on Colors. 
 
 
