COLVA: Citizens seeking birth records between the years 1965 and 1969 at the Salcete sub-registrar office are being told that their certificates cannot be issued as the original documents have been destroyed.

 Birth documents are vital for those applying for Portuguese passports. One such person is Amira Silva Pereira from   (name changed), who is unable to apply for a Portuguese passport as the directorate of planning, statistics and evaluation – the custodian of the birth and death records, is unable to provide her birth registration (teor). She was seen bitterly crying at the office of the civil registrar and sub-registrar, Salcete last week, her grievance being that her 18-year-old son has threatened to commit suicide if he cannot pursue his further studies in Germany through the Portugal corridor. 
 
 Pereira had applied for the document in February this year. But the director has expressed his helplessness in the matter, stating that the official records have been destroyed, she told TOI. Amira has already paid her agent Rs 75,000 as fees for completing the paperwork for acquiring the Portuguese passport. And without this crucial document, it is now impossible for her agent to process the file.
 
 Amira’s is not an isolated case.   from Loutolim had also applied for his birth certificate in the month of September. He visited the sub-registrar’s office in Salcete umpteenth times, but to no avail. He even provided a copy of his birth certificate as reference. Similarly,   from   also applied for a copy of his birth certificate. But to his dismay, he was told that it would take 1-2 months to process his application. He even approached the district collector Anjali Sherawat for assistance, only to be told that the planning department is not within her purview.
 
 But there are some like Santan Pires (name changed), who are lucky. He applied for his birth certificate on April 9 at noon, and by evening, he walked out with the certificate as well as the teor. The only difference between Pires and earlier three applicants is that the former sought political influence to speed up the process.
 
 Suresh Shanbag, who is holding additional charge of the planning department, informed that records between the years 1965 and 1969 stand destroyed, and hence these could not be computerised, thus making it impossible to issue documents of this period.
 
 Sources in the Salcete sub-registrar office revealed that at the instance of Curtorim MLA Reginaldo Lourenco, director of planning, statistics and evaluation, Durga Prasad had allowed copies of old birth records to be stamped as original. However, that practice was also subsequently disallowed.
 
 
