THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Chief secretary   is learnt to have recommended to chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan to go ahead with the disciplinary proceedings against   for his criticism of the government in handling the  . The explanation offered by the officer to the charges framed against him was reportedly found unsatisfactory.

 Thomas had maintained in his explanation that he had no intention to criticize the government and his accusation that the government failed in giving adequate warning to fishermen was based on news reports.
 
 The charges against Thomas included those under sections of   (Discipline and Appeal) Rules, 1969, and IPC Section 153 A (bid to create enmity between communities). 
 
 CS Finds His Explanation Of Ockhi Remarks Unsatisfactory
 
 The state government has rejected the explanation furnished by DGP Jacob Thomas to the articles of charges framed against him for his criticism of the government’s handling of Ockhi cyclone disaster.
 
 It is reliably learnt that   has recommended chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan to go ahead with the disciplinary proceedings against the officer, after finding that his explanation is unsatisfactory. Thomas had replied to the articles of charges against him that he had no intention to criticise the government, and his accusation that the government failed to give adequate warning to fishermen was based on reports.
 
 The articles of charges served to Thomas by chief secretary had asked him to explain why action should not be initiated against him, and charged him with offences not only based on sections of All India Service (Discipline and Appeal) Rules, 1969, but also for criminal offence under section 153 A of Indian Penal Code for trying to incite divide between communities.
 
 The charges had said that the statements by Thomas are capable of inciting affected people into widespread agitation against the government and prejudicial to the maintenance of harmony. Thomas, while commenting that had it been the case with affluent people, the government would have acted on time, and said that rulers are unpopular and cannot win the confidence of ordinary people.
 
 He had also indirectly made comments against the government saying that those who are talking about corruption may not have to face 51cuts, but will be silenced. This remark that is an indirect reference to murder of RMP leader T P Chandrasekharan in whose murder   cadres are the accused, is also learnt to have irked the government.
 
 Meanwhile, Thomas again criticised the vigilance and anti-corruption bureau for its ‘failure’ to gather evidences in the Pattoor land scam. In his statement to a vernacular news channel on Monday, he said that the vigilance officials failed in collecting evidences in the Pattoor case, and had said that though the case was registered during his tenure, it was the duty of subsequent chief to take forward the case.
 
 The high court had last week criticised Thomas heavily while quashing the Pattoor case and even expressed doubt whether the officer is fit to be DGP. Despite being asked by the court several times, the officer had not appeared before the court and had given his statements. Instead, he had been making comments through his social media account.
 
