PATNA: With the Election Commission set to hold election to fill up the six Rajya   (RS) seats from  , political atmosphere in the state has started hotting up.

 While political parties have begun an exercise to set right their equation with alliance partners to win maximum of the six seats, aspirants have also started lobbying in Delhi and Patna to get a nomination.
 
 Of the six seats, one of rebel JD (U) leader Ali Anwar is already vacant, while the five other seats are held by those who are going to retire on April 2.
 
 Anwar’s term was also to end on April 2, but he was disqualified as a   member by chairman   a few weeks ago. This followed a complaint from his JD(U), accusing him of indulging in anti-party activities.
 
 The other five members to retire on April 2 are Union ministers   and Ravi Shankar Prasad (both BJP), Mahendra Prasad alias King Mahendra, Bashishtha Narain Singh and   Sahni (all JD-U).
 
 Though the EC has not announced the election schedule, it has set the ball rolling by appointing Bihar assembly secretary Ram Shreshtha Rai as the RS election returning officer. The election is likely to be held in mid-March during the forthcoming Budget session of state assembly scheduled to be held from February 26 to April 4, sources said.
 
 As per rules, a candidate in Bihar will require votes of at least 35 MLAs to win the RS election. As RJD has currently 79 MLAs, it can win two seats. The party may transfer its nine surplus votes to ally Congress. The Congress has 27 MLAs and it may thus win one RS seat.
 
 The ruling JD (U), with 71 members in the assembly, too can win two seats. The party has not decided so far whether it will retain two of its three retiring members or send new faces to the upper house.
 
 However, it will not be easy for the BJP to drop either of the two Union ministers. With its strength of 52 MLAs, it can win just one RS seat. Sources said the party may get one of the two ministers nominated to the RS from another state.
 
 
