She was diagnosed with a hearing loss at one-and-a-half years of age, but that did not stop   (13) from overcoming the sound barrier and charting her own course. The seventh grader from a municipal school in Vile Parle has to her credit a national gold medal in rifle shooting in the Under-14 category.

  
 
  “We were totally shattered on hearing about Natasha’s hearing loss. But we decided to face it, no matter what. We did everything possible for her,” says an emotional Kshitija Joshi, Natasha’s mother, who works as a security instructor in the aviation sector.
 
  When the hearing aid did not help Natasha, they decided to get her operated. After collecting money for advanced bionic cochlear implant (costing `9 lacs then), Natasha went under the knife at the age of two-and-a-half-years. 
 
  Natasha was too young to wrap her head around a lot of ‘social injustices’ that she was subjected to when she was younger. “Many schools denied her admission outright because of her hearing condition. They feared that if she studied with ‘normal’ kids, their success ratio would also go down. The law doesn’t say she cannot mingle or receive formal education like other children; it was all in the heart of the concerned authorities. We felt proud when she received the ‘Best Student Award’ in fourth grade, where she competed with students who had no disabilities,” recalls her mother.
 
  Although her childhood was no fairy-tale, the teenager never let the unusual situation pose as a threat on her way to becoming a successful athlete. “I never felt like giving up then, and I will never do so now. I am lucky to receive unconditional love from my parents and encouragement from the society. I channelise all that in my game, which I love passionately.I also get immense support from my coaches Jitesh and Snehal Kadam. Besides, it is my dream to win Olympics medal for India and that will never allow me to give up.”
 
  
 
 
  Natasha’s tryst with rifle shooting began two years ago. “We introduced her to this game as she is very fond of crime serials on TV. When she took part in the national event in Delhi, her gun broke down the last minute. But she did not lose heart and requested us to borrow a gun from someone; she managed to score without any practice. In fact, in her first attempt itself she qualified and succeeded in the first and second trial, which is a selection criterion for Indian national shooting team. She has lot of courage and has strong will power,” says her father Uday Joshi, who also works in the operations department of an aviation company.
 
  Natasha can make it to the Indian National shooting team only after she clears the third and fourth trail matches, which is conducted by National Rifles Association of India (NRAI).
 
  Ask Natasha about that one defining moment when she decided to pursue shooting for life, she says, “I loved the way the officers hold guns in CID, my favourite crime serial. So, my parents took me to a shooting range. The moment I stepped inside, I liked the environment and asked my parents to pay fees for the next five years as I wanted to continue for long.”
 
  Natasha’s parents don’t just take pride in their daughter’s achievements, but also for the kind of person she is. “She not only wants to be a winner, but also believes in helping others win. She is managing herself well,” says her father.
 
  
 
  Being a sports junkie from early on helped, but it is her role models that the teenage rifle shooter looks up to when the going gets tough. Her favourites? “Abhinav Bindra, Rajyavardhan Singh Rathore, Anjali Bhagwat, Suma Shirur, Deepali Deshpande, Ayonika Paul and other international Olympian shooters are my inspiration. I love to watch them playing. I like their love and dedication towards the game,” shares Natasha.
 
