Bengaluru: The   (IOA) continued to revise its contingent list on Monday ahead of next week’s   but confusion still prevailed over the participation of four athletes’ trip to Australia next week.

 
 
 
 While quartermiler GK Vijayakumari’s name figures in the list released by the Sports Ministry on Monday, it’s missing from the third revised list put out by IOA. Ditto for high jumper Siddharth Yadav. In the case of middle distance runner and Asian Championship medallist Jinson Johnson and Arokia Rajiv, a 4x400m relay squad member, it’s exactly the opposite. Both are in the IOA list but missing from the ministry’s.
 
 
 
 Meanwhile, sources said Vijayakumari’s name was included by the Athletics Federation of India (AFI) after the athlete shot off letters to top AFI officials and sports minister Rajyavardhan Singh Rathore.
 
 When Vijayakumari, who won the silver medal at the Federation Cup, enquired about her name missing from the selection list released by AFI, she was told by a federation coach that she would be considered only if she gave a written undertaking that she would be part of the national camp till 2020, sources told TOI.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Apparently, the coach also dismissed her requests for a reprieve. “She told AFI that she is studying in Bengaluru and also training at the Centre of Excellence in SAI but that didn’t cut any ice. ‘Call back in five minutes and tell us whether you will join the camp or not. Else you won’t go’, the coach told her,” sources said.
 
 The AFI softened its stand only after Vijayakumari appealed to top Sports Authority of India (SAI) officials and the sports ministry. When sports minister Rajyavardhan Rathore visited SAI South Centre here last week, the athlete and her coach Lakshmisha had brought the matter to his notice as well.
 
 “The minister had promised Vijayakumari that he would take up her case. She is hopeful of competing in the  ,” a SAI official said.
 
 Meanwhile, sources in AFI said the participation of the four athletes is doubtful as they are yet to get any confirmation from the organizers. The fifth athlete, long jumper Sreeshankar, was ruled out after he underwent an appendix surgery on Sunday.
 
 “The AFI is unable to give a valid reason to include the four athletes’ names as an extraordinary case. So it remains to be seen whether they get the green signal. A final yes or no from the organizers is expected on Tuesday,” they said.
 
 In the case of Johnson and Rajiv, sources said, their names are missing from the entry list for men’s 1500m and men’s 4x400m relay respectively
 
 
