BATHINDA: The   ( ) has taken serious note of reports of contamination of groundwater due to discharge of industrial effluents and untreated water by various industries under the surface through borewells instead of reusing it after treatment. 

 The board has decided to sternly deal with the industries pumping untreated water through borewells, which contaminates groundwater and make it unfit for human consumption.
 
 PPCB issued a public notice on Thursday in which it announced a reward Rs 1 lakh to anyone providing specific information about discharge of untreated and poisonous water. The board claims that it is the first-of-its-kind initiative in Punjab to check the contamination of water and to prevent people getting afflicted with various ailments.
 
 The studies conducted in the past by   ( ) and the Central Ground Water Board (CGWB) have made it clear that groundwater in Punjab has various heavy metals like nickel, arsenic and aluminium more than the permissible limits.
 
 The toxic and contaminated water in border districts of Fazilka and Ferozepur has led to deformities among people, especially children. Few villages like Teja Ruhela, Dona Nanka in Fazilka have seen a lot of deformities and skin disorders among children, including greying of hair at tender age.
 
 Seasonal rivulet Ghaggar, which carries toxic water due to industrial untreated waste and sewage being pumped into it, has become highly contaminated. Water in Ghaggar turns black when it reaches Sardulgarh in Mansa carrying toxic waste from various towns along the way. The Lassara drain passing through Barnala and Bathinda districts is another example of water contamination.
 
 PPCB chairperson Kahan Singh Pannu told TOI, "Though many industrial houses have put up effluent treatment plants to recycle and recharge waste water, some units still might be pumping untreated water into the ground. Due to that the board has asked the residents of Punjab to support the cause and become a watchdog against this contamination. We have asked people to provide specific information about any particular industry is discharging contaminated water into ground. Such a person will be given Rs 1 lakh and the identity will be kept confidential."
 
 Pannu said they had taken the initiative to maintain the purity of groundwater. "We will take it seriously and expect the people to support us in this cause. Though there are no specific inputs, nearly 100 small and medium units, especially electroplating units, might be pumping contaminated water into the ground," he said.
 
 Pritpal Singh of Baba Farid Centre for Special Children, which also studies the contamination of groundwater, said textile industry of Ludhiana and leather factories of Jalandhar were contaminating the water and pumping it into ground. He said, "The quantum of water being used in textile industries is not coming into Buddha Nullah in Ludhiana, which makes it clear that it is being pumped into ground as most of the industries have not put up treatment plants."
 
 
