CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and Haryana high court on Friday slammed the UT administration for its alleged non-serious approach on the amendment of IPC provisions in   cases.

 The high court also directed the   to produce evidence in support of its allegations against trial courts about its casual approach in granting bail to the accused.
 
 
  
 
 According to data submitted in the high court by the police, most of the accused are repeat offenders and get bail very easily. A bench of the high court said snatchings are again on the rise, directing the administration to provide necessary documents to the Central government before the next date, so that steps may be taken to issue appropriate notification regarding stringent provisions in the IPC. The matter now would come up for hearing on May 28.
 
 During the resumed hearing of the case, the standing counsel, UT, alleged the Centre is not taking any action on its request for making more stringent provisions in the IPC for snatching. At this stage, Satya Pal Jain, additional solicitor general of India, took an offence, and told the bench that the UT has so far not provided the requisite information, which the Union home ministry had demanded from it. The administration was asked to supply a copy of the Haryana government’s notification on amendment of the IPC provisions and draft notification on this issue which is to be approved by the Centre.
 
 Advocate Hari Chand brought it to the notice of the court that the police, in its affidavit filed on May 10, filed under signatures of DSP (crime) Amrao Singh had given certain suggestions, which are required to be looked into by the bench. The suggestions included that trial courts should properly verify the persons who stand surety for the accused in chain snatching cases and consider grant of bail in case of habitual offenders. The counsel supported the suggestions by observing that touts, who arranged surety for the accused, were always roaming around the courts. The bench then directed the administration to produce evidence in support of its allegations.
 
 
