AMRITSAR: Former Rajya Sabha member Rajmohinder Singh Majitha, who had unsuccessfully contested Chief   ( ) presidential elections, has now approached the  , seeking cancellation of the poll result claiming rigging and violation of the Takht directives.

 “There are many CKD members who had not been regular in attending organization’s meetings or giving donations. According to CKD constitution their membership should have been automatically cancelled, yet they voted,” alleged Majitha while talking to TOI on Tuesday.
 
 One of Majitha's close aide Nirmal Singh, who also lost vice-president’s election, said they had given a representation to the jathedar of the Akal Takht urging him to hold an inquiry into their allegations. If charges were found to be correct, the Sikh high priests should give directions for the cancellation of the CKD polls, he added
 
 On March 25, Dr Santokh Singh was elected as the president in the bypolls of the 115-year-old Sikh charitable organization trouncing Majitha and Dhanraj Singh, the then officiating president of CKD.
 
 Nirmal alleged that there were around six dozen CKD members who had not participated in general meetings for the past two years and the same number of members had not given donations for the past couple of years. “According to CKD constitution, their membership should have been automatically cancelled,” he said. CKD has over 500 members.
 
 Over a dozen members, who had submitted a memorandum with the Sikh high priests, alleged that around two dozen women members of CKD with trimmed hair were allowed to cast their votes. “Women members had covered their heads so they couldn’t be identified as patit (apostate),” Nirmal said, adding that earlier it was decided that a woman principal of a CKD-run school would examine them and only then they would be allowed to cast their vote.
 
 “Not only the CKD’s constitution bar patit from casting their votes but Akal Takht had also directed that only ‘sabat surat’ Sikh’s should be allowed to cast their votes,” said Majitha.
 
 When contacted Akal Takht jathedar said the Sikh clergy would contemplate over the matter in Sikh high priests meeting.
 
 
