AHMEDABAD: Exactly one year ago, it was the Geneva headquarters of the   (WHO) that broke news to the world and to Indians, that India had recorded its first three confirmed cases of   virus infections in Ahmedabad — approximately six months after these epidemic-risk cases were detected by   government. 

 This first such global “opaque approach” towards communicating about Zika infections and its ethical challenges — during a high-risk, but low public outrage situation — is now part of a case study by Northumbria University, the UK’s department of psychology and  , Singapore. 
 
 
  
 The study, by   of Northumbria University and   from Nanyang Technological University, examined three aspects of India’s response. The first was “not acknowledging the centrality of pregnant women to Zika by not disseminating timely information about its risks to enable them to exercise appropriate choices during pregnancy.” The second was, “not making complete information about the epidemiological burden available to the public in a timely, transparent and comprehensible manner and thirdly, “questionable ethical practices while conducting surveillance- related activities, such as obtaining additional samples for Zika without informing the public about the reasons for doing so”. 
 
 The study says the Gujarat government should have taken a lead role in explaining the threat of Zika to the public, based on the global situation, and clarified uncertainties surrounding it. “The government should have recommended actions for the public to undertake to protect themselves, and provided frequent updates,” recommended the study. 
 
 The International Health Regulations IHR (2005) have mandated that “India was obliged to notify the WHO of diseases classified as public health emergencies of international concern (PHEIC) within 24 hours of confirmation. But India’s surveillance system cited WHO’s declassification of Zika as a PHEIC on November 18 – days after the first positive case was found in Ahmedabad, to explain its non-compliance with the 24-hour reporting deadline. The study pointed out that, “WHO officials contradicted India’s assertions, pointing instead to the government’s responsibility to report cases as these pertain to epidemic-prone diseases.” 
 
 The study also noted that though India had its own National Risk Communication Plan (NRCP), recommending strategies for early public knowledge, “none of these recommendations appear to have been implemented,” the study noted.
