VIJAYAWADA: Though increased levels of fluoride in drinking water is said to be the main cause behind the outbreak of   at A   mandal in Krishna district, erratic eating habits and consumption of alcohol are also believed to be one of the other major factors.

 The door-to-door survey conducted by officials has revealed interesting details about the   of locals. Out of the 17 chronic   disease (CKD) patients, 16 were found to be alcoholics, with almost all of them addicted to locally-brewed liquor. 
 
 The officials found that consumption of arrack is rampant in the hamlets. More importantly, people were also seen making their own arrack using local methods.
 
 Another aspect that the officials discovered was the use of urea in brewing of local arrack. Urea is known to severely affect kidneys. M Anusha, medical officer of A Konduru, said she was not aware of the ingredients being used by villagers to brew the arrack but added that if they were using urea, it will definitely affect their kidneys. However, it is not clear at this point of time about the exact cause behind the kidney ailments. Further investigations need to be carried out to ascertain the causes, she added.
 
 The cooking procedure of meat by locals could also be another reason contributing to the kidney ailments. Those who live in hamlets, where more number of such patients were found, were not aware of the effects of cooking meat in an improper manner.
 
 The revenue department has been conducting a door-to-door survey in the mandal to find out the total number of kidney patients. The tehsildar of A Konduru, M Suresh Kumar, said they were taking all measures to help kidney patients. Medical camps are being organised in all hamlets and blood samples of suspected patients are being sent for detailed analysis, he said.
 
 Meanwhile, a report from the Rural Water Supply (RWS) department has said the fluoride levels are not alarming in A Konduru mandal. RWS assistant engineer V Chakradhar said, “We have identified some handpumps in the mandal with slightly higher levels of fluoride and marked them with red ink. We have also set up a RO plant to supply drinking water to locals, particularly in areas with more number of kidney ailment cases.”
 
 The officials are of the view that presence of fluoride in drinking water is not the sole reason behind the kidney ailments. There are other causes too which need to be investigated by medical experts, they say.
 
 
