COIMBATORE: As the two-day Defence Indigenisation Expo at the   in the city came to a close on Tuesday, representatives from the 13 defence public sector units (DPSUs) and armed forces that had set up stalls there said they had received applications from as many as 200 local micro, small & medium enterprises (MSME) expressing confidence about making the components on display.

 General manager of planning and purchase at the Bharat Earth Movers Limited Sunil Kharad said several MSMEs had not only approached them expressing their capabilities and interest in indigenisation of some of the components displayed, but also to be alternate vendors for certain components.
 
 While city entrepreneurs were enthusiastic about producing and supplying defence components, DPSUs said they too had several expectations. Deputy general manager at the   Sudarshan Reddy said while the city-based MSMEs have the capacity to move over from producing automobiles to producing defence components, the organisation expected them to produce high quality castings and do pipe bending operations without distortions. “We also expect them to produce components using flow forming, deep drawing and thin film technology,” he told TOI.
 
 Representatives from the Navy and the Air Force said several critical components needed a significantly long time to be tested and cleared. “Critical flight components need more time to be tested and cleared by agencies such as the Directorate General of Quality Assurance,” said a representative from the  . “MSMEs have to adopt to that if they seek to supply to IAF,” he added.
 
 Also, given that the procurement volume of defence components is much lesser than that produced in the automobile industry, DPSU representatives said MSMEs must adapt it.
 
 However, city industrialists were optimistic that MSMEs can tide over these hurdles to materialise the dream of making Coimbatore a defence manufacturing hub. Codissia president V Sundaram said that though the licensing time might be long to supply for the IAF, after that the sector would provide a stable business. “For example, the Hindustan Aeronautics Limited has been surviving in Bengaluru because of the industrial estate there. Also, micro industries would have a good opportunity as they are using their conventional machinery to produce the low volume defence requirements,” he said.
 
 Moreover, a shift in attitude is needed for the much necessary shift to defence manufacturing, Sundaram said. “I would say initially MSMEs should offset 20% to 30% of their production for defence. After two years, the firms would see a significant increase in their revenues,” he said.
 
 Industrialists said the transition is the need of the hour in anticipation that in a decade, electric vehicles would make a large chunk of today’s automotive industry redundant.
 
 
