AHMEDABAD: While the state government hasn’t yet laid out new guidelines for issuing and renewing   on health grounds — which was suspended on March 20 — the   department has also stopped issuing permit application forms and renewing liquor permits for former military personnel.

 Former military personnel, according to the norms of the ministry of defence (MoD) are issued liquor permits under rule 64 (c) of the Liquor Permit Rules.
 
 However, since March 20, the state government has suspended both issuance of new liquor permits and renewal of the old ones till the new guidelines for issuance of health liquor permits are issued.
 
 Sanjay Kumar retired as a sergeant from the Pathankot Air Force Station after serving the Indian Air Force (IAF) for 20 years. “My permit expired on March 31. When I went to renew the permit, prohibition department officials at the Lal Darwaja office told me that the government has suspended renewal of old permits and even issuing forms for new permits,” Kumar said.
 
 “It is understood that the government suspended issuing and renewing health liquor permits due to irregularities, but we have nothing do with  . We don’t even need medical certificates. We are only required to provide staff and pension certificates,” Kumar added.
 
 A senior prohibition department official confirmed that several   have written to the department about the matter. “Issuing new permits and renewing liquor permits for ex-servicemen has been suspended along with other permits issued under rules 64 (a), (b) and (c). The decision to suspend issuing and renewing permits has been taken by the government,” a senior prohibition department official said on condition of anonymity.
 
 Sgt Kumar said he has taken up the issue with the District Soldier Board and the State Soldier Board. “They said that though the state government rule applies to us, we have taken up the issue and written to the prohibition department on the matter,” he said.
 
 Prohibition department figures show that of the 70,000 liquor permits in the state, about 3,000 have been issued to ex-servicemen. The department said the issue will be resolved once the new guidelines are laid down.
 
 
