VADODARA/ANAND: Generations after generations, farmers of Charotar representing the twin districts of Anand and Kheda have made this NRI-rich belt of Central Gujarat famous as the “golden leaf” of Gujarat. But for the first time in its history, the farmers here are demanding for minimum support price (MSP) for their tobacco crops. 

 On March 20, the iconic Gambhira farming co-operative, hailed as Asia’s only farm co-operative that cultivates high-quality tobacco (locally known as Korat tobacco) on the banks of Mahisagar river on co-operative model, held its auction for the 5.80 lakh kg tobacco produced this year by its 290 farmers of 12 villages on 425 acres land owned and managed by the co-operative. Korat is a premium variety of tobacco that fetches the highest price.
 
 But for the first time in 65 years, the tobacco that is annually sold through this auction, it did not find any takers. 
 
 Considered to be the best quality tobacco grown in Gujarat, between 2013 and 2017, farmer members of the co-operative have fetched anywhere between Rs 2,200 to Rs 2,800 as the lowest price for each 20 kg bag sold to the traders who this time are crying foul over the GST regime and are demanding that farmers further reduce their prices. 
 
 Even as the co-operative which was set up in 1953 will make another attempt to auction the tobacco produced collectively by its members on Sunday, the unsold stocks of this high-quality tobacco has come as a rude shock for other tobacco growing farmers of Charotar, who are now demanding that state government should declare MSP.
 
 The Gambhira gram panchayat on Saturday will convene a mega ‘Khedut Panchayat’ in which around 2,000 farmers are expected to participate.
 
 “We are demanding that 33 % GST imposed on tobacco should be abolished and Gujarat government should declare MSP,” said  , president of Gujarat unit of Bharatiya Kisan Union (A) which has threatened to launch ‘Charotar Bachao Satyagrah’ if the demands of tobacco farmers are not heard. 
 
 “Farmers, traders and the state government will need to come on one platform to resolve the issue which is getting complicated with each passing day,” said  , president of the Gujarat Tobacco Merchant and Growers Association.
 
 “Usually by this time of the year, 50 to 60 % tobacco produced by the farmers is engaged (pre-booked by traders). But this year, not a single kg of tobacco has been sold,” he confirmed. 
 
 Sources suggest that tobacco this year was cultivated on nearly 78,000 hectares in the Charotar belt with the estimated production standing at nearly 29.22 crore kg. 
 
 “The government should announce Rs 5,000 to Rs 10,000 as MSP range for tobacco produced by Mahisagar co-operative and Rs 2,000 to Rs 2,500 as MSP for the rest of tobacco produced by farmers,” said Ravi Patel, adding that while government wants to collect GST from traders, the traders are exploiting farmers giving GST as excuse. 
 
 
