NAGPUR: Maharashtra State Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribes Commission has issued a notice to city police chief asking for a report on the ongoing double murder case of Kamble family. 

 The Kambles, who already have lodged a complaint before the commission earlier this month, met former chairman of the body retired Justice CL Thool, who is also incumbent member (legal), with their grievances this week. 
 
 In another development, guardian minister   too visited the home of Kamble family at Pawantsut Nagar this week. Bawankule had earlier promised a state CID probe into the case before media a day ago but claimed otherwise when TOI contacted him. He said he had merely hinted about handing over the probe to a ‘third party’. “I am going meet the Chief Minister over the issue this week to discuss the various aspects to get the aggrieved family justice,” said Bawankule. 
 
 Journalist Ravikant Kamble, whose mother Usha and one-and-half year old daughter Rashi were alleged murdered by neighbour-cum-grocer Sahu family in February this year, has formally complaint against   Kishore Supare before the SC/ST commission and also during his visit to Thool. Supare had been handling the case earlier. Kamble family has demanded stringent action under the Scheduled Castes and Tribes (Prevention of Atrocity) Act against Supare for his alleged shoddy probe. 
 
 Thool, speaking to TOI, expressed shock as to how a case under the anti-Atrocity Act was handed over to an officer (Supare) who had earlier been booked under the same law. “In the past (2010), the commission under my chairmanship had booked Supare under Atrocity Act when he was a police station in-charge. It was an atrocity against a tribal last time following which the victim had died too,” said Thool.
 
 “It is already a fact now that such an officer is prejudiced and biased against backward communities and caution should have been exercised by the police department before allotting the case to him,” he said. “We are expecting police to send us a reply within two weeks following which the commission would reach a conclusion,” he said. 
 
 Kamble, who had earlier approached CM   demanding appointment of senior counsel   as special public prosecutor in the case, is also learnt to have made similar complaints against Supare before CP K Venkatesham. The scribe said he is still awaiting justice.
 
 
