NEW DELHI:   choked parts of central and south Delhi for the   day in a row on Saturday as they put chairs on two arterial   and sat there to campaign for their candidates during the Bar Council of Delhi elections. 

 Hundreds of cars with posters pasted on them were parked along Mathura Road and Subramanium Bharti Marg, blocking the two stretches for nearly three hours. The traffic police initially stood helpless as its appeal to the lawyers went unheard. By the afternoon, the lawyers had practically shut down a part of Mathura Road. 
 
 Although the traffic police had issued an advisory urging people to avoid areas around India Gate and Mathura Road, the stretches — being critical connectors between south and central Delhi — saw heavy traffic even on Saturday.
 
 “I was travelling to ITO in an auto and got stuck near the Delhi zoo. After waiting for nearly 45 minutes, the auto driver advised me to walk to my office. It was almost a 4km walk in the afternoon and it exhausted me,” said Sameer Haq, who works in an advertising agency.
 
 With the situation going from bad to worse, a team led by senior officials from other traffic circles were called to manage the traffic. The police said they had shut down Sher Shah Suri Marg due to the crowd and made passage for vehicles along Mathura Road and Subramanium Bharti Marg. However, both stretches got choked soon due to a bottleneck near Khair-ul-Manzil mosque at the corner as lawyers parked their vehicles on the road.
 
 “We had designated the Delhi zoo parking for the lawyers but most of the senior lawyers refused to walk in the heat and preferred parking their vehicles on the road,” said a police officer. 
 
 A number of vehicles used for campaigning kept taking U-turns from the zoo crossing, leading to confusion. Around 5pm, the police took to managing traffic manually. However, vehicles passing by still had to slow down due to haphazardly parked vehicles. The stretch near Sher Shah Suri Marg on the C-hexagon, too, witnessed a similar situation.
 
 Police officers said some of the drivers were issued challans while a few two-wheelers were towed away later in the evening. 
 
 
