While JD(S) honchos were busy stitching together a post-poll alliance and staking claim to power, one person in the Gowda family was looking for answers to the big question: Why didn't JD(S) win more seats?

 
 Meet  , 54, wife of chief minister-designate  . She is getting ready to contest the Ramanagara bypoll, necessitated after Kumaraswamy resigned as MLA to retain neighbouring Channapatna constituency. If she wins Ramanagara, which the JD(S) is highly confident of, she will join her husband in the legislative assembly for the second time.
 
 Anitha hit the campaign trail for the first time in 1996 when Kumaraswamy contested the Lok Sabha polls from Kanakapura in 1996. Leaving behind her six-year-old son at her mother's house, she travelled from one village to another in the constituency, seeking support for her husband. He won. Twelve years later, she made her political debut by winning the prestigious Madhugiri assembly bypoll in Tumakuru district in 2008. A woman of few words, she also maintained a low profile as MLA. Her political career witnessed two debacles: she lost the 2013 Channapatna assembly poll to C P Yogeshwar (Samajwadi Party) and the 2014 Bengaluru Rural Lok Sabha poll to Congress leader DK Shivakumar's brother Suresh.
 
 She was to contest the recent assembly polls from Channapatna, but Kumaraswamy and JD(S) supremo   decided against fielding more members from the family. "But that did not dishearten her, she worked with greater vigour for the party. While Kumaraswamy was busy touring the state, she single-handedly managed his poll campaign in Ramanagara and Channapatna, and ensured victory in both constituencies," a JD(S) leader said. "She did a lot of legwork, she visited every village and took local leaders into confidence."
 
 Sources in JD(S) attribute the party's victory in at least five other constituencies in Old Mysuru region to her hard work. She was also instrumental in containing dissidence in JD(S) and preventing leaders from crossing over to other parties. "In fact, when JD(S) leader GT Deve Gowda (who defeated Siddaramaiah in Chamundeshwari) was being wooed by Congress to desert JD(S), she was the first to reach out to Gowda's wife and son and convince them not to allow him to move out. Otherwise, the party would have been rocked by dissent in the Vokkaliga heartland," a party source said. She also quelled rebellion in Sidlaghatta, Chikkaballapura and Devanahalli.
 
 "She is a very good listener and has impressive organising skills at the local level," another party leader added. She is currently looking into where and how JD(S) erred in the recent polls.
 
 Interestingly, Anitha's role model in politics is her father-in-law H D Deve Gowda. When she is not politicking, she is busy handling business: she runs a television channel, produces films and owns a fuel station. Anitha and Kumaraswamy have a son, Nikhil Kumar (who acts in Kannada films). Known to be god-fearing, she visits one temple a day through the week. 
 
