BENGALURU: A fake WhatsApp video which peddled fear by claiming an out-of-state gang was stealing children has claimed its first casualty. A 26-year-old youth was beaten to death by a group of enraged men who mistook him for a child-lifter. Police identified the deceased as Kaluram, who hailed from   and suspect he is a paan seller.

 \
 The police control room received an alert at about 1.40pm on Wednesday, that a man was being kicked and beaten with wooden logs by a group of men near Ranganatha talkies in Pension Mohalla under the jurisdiction of Chamarajpet police. The caller claimed the group who was thrashing the man was shouting that he is a child-lifter.
 
 
  
 
 A Hoysala team was immediately dispatched to the spot. The attackers fled when the police arrived. The victim, who lay on the road with severe injuries, died on the way to a hospital, police said.
 
 The death is being attributed to the WhatsApp video which has spread fear in villages across at least six districts in the state. There are reports from the districts of some vigilante groups thrashing suspected child-lifters, who were later identified as beggars, homeless, or mentally challenged.
 
 Police have announced the video, originally circulated in Chennai, Tamil Nadu, is a fake, but this has not stopped lathi-weilding men in some villages from taking turns to guard lanes and houses. On Sunday, two men, in their 30s were beaten up by a mob at Andersonpet, Kolar Gold Field, on suspicion that they were trying to steal children, but police claim they were beggars.
 
 Anthony, an eye-witness, claimed: “When we caught them, we found at least 10 handkerchiefs, a spray of some kind, biscuits and chocolates.”
 
 B S Lokesh Kumar, SP, KGF, said they suspect the men to be beggars. “They are in a rescue centre now. We will question them again to learn their background and the purpose of their visit,” he said.
 
 On May 16, police in Raichur received information that a mob was beating up a woman on suspicion that she belonged to a gang of child thieves. The mob had even damaged the police vehicle. It was later concluded that the victim was mentally challenged and did not belong to any gang. Six men have been arrested in connection with the case.
 
 “The mob, without giving a second thought, pounce on such innocent victims and beat them up if their answers are not satisfactory,” police said.
 
 Susmita Bellam, a resident of Raichur, claimed maids from other states are fearing for their life. “Some of them don’t know Kannada and they are worried to even walk on the streets as they won’t know how to respond if someone questions them,” she said.
 
 The first two weeks of May witnessed similar attacks on beggars and rag-pickers in Tumakuru and Ballari districts too.
 
 
 
