MUMBAI: A day after Tankila Ahmed (46) lost her eight-month-old foetus in an accident on the   while coming to the city from   to ensure a safe delivery, she continued to battle for life at the civic-run  . But doctors were somewhat relieved as the 46-year-old, strapped on a  ,   the   naturally on Monday.

 “Tankila’s condition is extremely  . The damage to her brain is massive, but a surgery may not be possible immediately,” said Sion hospital’s deputy dean Dr Rakesh Verma. 
 
 
  
 Nursing a shoulder injury himself, Tankila’s husband Mushtaq (60) said everything has been a blur since the ambulance they were travelling from Malegaon in turned turtle on collision with a divider on Sunday morning. “My six-year-old son Ibrahim escaped without a scratch, but I have lost my unborn child and my wife is critical. I don’t know if I should thank god or curse my fate,” said the distraught man, whose anxious gaze remained fixated at the door of the trauma unit where Tankila is admitted.
 
 Married for 10 years, Mushtaq and Tankila have two sons and a daughter, aged six, eight and ten respectively. The couple never wanted a fourth child given Tankila’s heart condition but a private doctor at their hometown said it would be “a crime to abort a two-month-old foetus”. 
 
 “Doctors have told us that her chances of survival are slim, but I am hoping for a miracle,” said Mushtaq. The labourer in a power loom unit in Naya Islampur of Malegaon said they were advised by doctors at the Malegaon Civil Hospital to bring Tankila to JJ Hospital in Byculla as she was a high-risk case with a history of heart ailment. “I wonder why they didn’t suggest Nashik or Aurangabad, which are much closer than Mumbai.” 
 
 The impact of the accident had flung four occupants, including Ibrahim and the driver, outside the ambulance, except Mushtaq and Tankila. “It was a deafening noise as the windows shattered. The stretcher on which Tankila lay during the journey was on top of her. I started shouting for help as I was disoriented and couldn’t find the strength to move the stretcher. But people put their hands into my pockets to steal my cellphone and cash. I somehow snatched my cellphone back from a man, but by then he had already removed the SIM card,” he said.
 
 On Monday, three of his injured relatives returned to Malegaon as they struggled to get attention at Rajawadi Hospital. “Ibrahim escaped unhurt but he was traumatized. When we were being shifted from Rajawadi to Sion hospital in an ambulance, he was petrified and refused to ride in it,” said Mushtaq.
 
 
