CHENNAI: Opposition MLAs, led by   working president M K   on Monday boycotted governor  's address in the Tamil Nadu assembly, criticising him for not asking the   government to prove its majority on the floor of the house. AIADMK's erstwhile ally Thamimun Ansari also boycotted the event and stuck close to DMK MLAs outside the assembly. Soon after Purohit began his addressing the assembly, Stalin, who is also the leader of the opposition, demanded that he be allowed to read a statement 

 Stalin said the party MLAs boycotted the event as the governor, instead of asking the government to prove its majority in the assembly, had agreed to deliver his customary address. The entire speech seemed like it was prepared by the Centre, said Stalin. "The governor has praised the GST. Until now, governors have praised only the state government. But, in this address, the Centre too has come in for praise. That is why I have a doubt whether the speech has been prepared by the Centre. The entire speech is like 'halwa'(disappointing)," said Stalin. 
 
 At the start of the governor's speech, Stalin read a statement criticising him for not asking the government to prove its majority. "The   has said that the AIADMK has only 111 MLAs supporting it. Instead of asking the government to prove its majority, the governor has agreed to address the assembly. This is totally against democracy," said Stalin. 
 
 The opposition, particularly the DMK, had been strident in their criticism of the governor touring the districts and holding review meetings with officials.
 
 DMK MLAs led by Stalin walked out of the speaker's chamber after the government and speaker refused to accept DMK's suggestion that it is only after the leader of opposition speaks, the chief minister has to reply to the debate. "It used to be the culture in the assembly but it was changed for the former chief minister J Jayalalithaa due to her health condition. But, the present government wants to follow a similar schedule. We did not agree and walked out," said Stalin. 
 
 
