This past weekend, Gurgaon resident   reaffirmed the city’s tag of being the most fitness conscious in India by becoming the second person from the   to finish the 515-km   Challenge in Florida, considered to be one of the toughest endurance races in the world. Last year, city resident   had become the first Gurugrammer to finish the race. Gaurav has not just emulated the feat this year but done so with a superior timing.

  
  Gaurav Makkar
 
  The endurance triathlon has participants attempt to finish a 10-km swim, a 421-km bike ride, and a 84-km double marathon distance run, spread over three days. To be able to earn the title of Ultraman, each of the three stages needs to be finished in under 12 hours. Gaurav finished 22nd in the   in a 45-min field, which is one of the best finishes by an Indian ever.
 
  
  
 
  However, the 38-year-old says he is slightly disappointed by the result. "I was in the top 15 after two stages and was hoping to finish in the top 10. But I got a knee injury on day two, which aggravated during the run on the final day. I barely managed to finish the last stage in time and had to walk and limp my way through the last 19 km. That affected my timing so I'm slightly disappointed. But then it could have been worse, so I shall take what I can get," he says.
 
  
  Gaurav at the finish line of the double marathon distance run in the Ultraman Challenge
 
  Before the Ultraman, Gaurav – who works as a triathlon coach in Gurgaon – has been a four-time finisher in the  . But he says the two races are worlds apart. "The Ultraman Challenge is very different in comparison to the Ironman, it is very exclusive. Every Ironman has about 2,000 participants while the Ultraman has barely 45-50. It is an invitation-only event and you compete with the top endurance athletes of the world. That makes it all the more special," says Gaurav, who was the only Indian competing in the prestigious race this year.
 
  
  Ultraman Gaurav Makkar
 
  Gaurav, a resident of Sector 48, says he trained over six months for this feat. He elaborates, "I started my base period training in June last year. Then, I took a small break in between to participate in the Malaysia Ironman, following which I had my peak high-intensity training starting November," he says. Gaurav trained all seven days a week, focusing on high-intensity shorter workouts during weekdays and long-distance runs and rides on weekends.
 
  
  
 
  A four-time Ironman finisher and now Ultraman, Gaurav has scaled most peaks endurance athletes can. So what does he want to try next? "Every time you achieve something this big, the question arises, 'what next?' For now, I will take a much-deserved break. My body needs a month to just recover from this strenuous activity. During this time, I will simply relax and socialize. I have missed so many birthday parties, dinners, and family events, so it's time to make up for that," he says. But despite his promise to take it easy, Gaurav reveals he has already set his sights on his next goal. He tells us, "I do have something in mind for 2019. I will attempt to do five Ironman Triathlons in five days, something known as the   in our sport. Only 20 athletes attempt the Epic Five every year and no Indian has done it. I hope to be the first to finish it next year."
 
  
  Gaurav Makkar is the second person from Gurgaon to become Ultraman
 
 
 
  
 
