PUNE: Imagine a drone delivering letters or postmen criss-crossing the streets of Pune on segways. 

 The postal authorities of Pune circle, hosting the state-level philatelic exhibition MAHAPEX, have pulled out all stops, including bringing in the drones and segways, to ensure that the event stands out.
 
 The Pune region office of India Post will put on display 400 frames of  , first-day and special covers and other philatelic items as part of the exhibition at   between January 20 and 22. This will be punctuated by a variety of contests mainly for school-going children, like letter-writing, philately quizzes, and stamp designing on various themes.
 
 “Of the 400 frames, 340 will be in the competitive section. It will involve evaluation and awarding of collection of individuals and schools by a chosen jury. The other 60 frames will see special invitees, the department of post presentations and a few other categories will be presented. This will also include presentations from the Army Postal Service and India Security Press. Some literature about philately will also be on show,” said Ganesh Sawaleshwarkar, postmaster-general of the Pune region.
 
 Tthe postal department will release special covers on some of the sights and sound of Maharashtra during each day of the event. “We are planning to release a special cover of Cavansite mineral near Wagholi. We will then release covers of   in Nanded, Marine Drive in Mumbai, the Nagpur Directorate of Postal Accounts, Gateway of India, the Vidarbha tiger and Irwin Bridge in Sangli,” Sawaleshwarkar added.
 
 The postal authorities are also targeting to reach out to the youth during the exhibition. “We are trying two novel concepts, including drone-assisted delivery of letters. The first letters will be delivered using a drone from the exhibition venue to the Swargate post office on January 20. We know that commercial operations using drones will be possible after a lot of research and development. But we just want to show that this is possible,” the postmaster-general said.
 
 The other concept is something that Sawaleshwarkar said was being “seriously considered”. He said, “We will try giving postmen the personal transportation vehicles, segways. These hands-free and wireless vehicles and can travel much faster through the streets. It is an alternative to walking. That is a concept we are seriously considering in some parts of the city.” he said.
 
 As far as interest in philately goes, the region has about 3500 philatelic account holders with India Post. In some circles like Mumbai, the interest in philately has increased following merchandising of commemorative stamp images on t-shirts and mugs. But generally, the interest is collecting stamps has declined over the years with the few philatelic societies in the city being “generally inactive”, Sawaleshwarkar admitted. 
 
 Unlike in earlier days, the postal department also does not sell stamp albums or stamp mounts. All this prompted the postal department to explore some unique concepts to lure people, mostly youngsters, to philately.
 
 
