 – one of Rabindranath Tagore’s most illustrious and celebrated works is unfolding on stage in a contemporary form. An adaptation of the 1892 dance-drama, 
 touches upon a plethora of modern-day issues, such as body shamming, people’s obsession with white skin and male chauvinism. The play is translated and contemporized by short filmmaker  , while he has co-directed it with theater practitioner Shatarupa Bhattacharyya. 

  So, how difficult was it to present the period drama in a modern context? “The translation bit was the most time consuming. 
 is a timeless masterpiece, which Tagore had beautifully weaved with meaningful texts and verses. It’s written in old-style Bengali, and translating that in English was not very easy. The story is about womanhood, which still has relevance in today’s time,” says Prataya, adding, “Although Bengaluru is a   hub, performances based on Tagore’s works are still rare. 
 is also an effort to bridge that gap.” 
 
  The character of Chitraa has two shades, portrayed by artistes   and Archana Kariappa. Other roles include Arjuna (played by Surya Vasishta), Madana (essayed by Nevin Pearl and Subhabrata Kundu), Vasantha (enacted by Shashwath Malli) and village head (played by Brenda Bredemeyer-Gnader).
 
  Music is an important aspect of the play, according to Prataya. “We have tried to recreate the ambience of the ancient world with background scores replicating the sounds of a jungle, thunder and river. Meanwhile, there will also live flute and tabla music,” he adds.
 
  “The play is essentially about the atrocities that women have to go through, and it underscores the fact that things have not really changed much in the modern world. From love and passion to rejection, 
  depicts several emotion. As an actor, I have paid special attention to the costumes, mannerisms and other nuances,” says Anshulika – who has a decade-long experience in theatre and short films, and also recently appeared in the Kannada film 
 . 
 
  Presented by Red Polka Productions and Lahe Lahe, the theatrical piece is premiering at Alliance française de Bangalore on March 10.
 
 
