NEW DELHI: About 7% of   sold in the country last year were registered in Delhi, choking the city's already cramped road infrastructure. While the national capital is home to a little over one per cent of India’s population, it accounts for nearly five per cent of the total registered vehicles. 

 According to the details available from government’s national vehicle database “Vahan”, on an average around 2,500 were registered daily in January itself in the national capital. In 2017, the average daily registration of   was 1,975. “The penetration of vehicle on Delhi roads is much higher considering that a large section of people working in Delhi are staying in the suburbs and their vehicles are registered in the neighbouring states of Haryana and Uttar Pradesh. A compilation of total registration of vehicles in immediate neighbouring areas of Delhi will show how the situation is getting grimmer,” said a government official. He said the huge concentration of private vehicles are choking the internal roads and those connecting the suburbs with the national capital.
 
 Data also show that little over 65% of the vehicles registered in Delhi are two-wheelers while the share of such vehicles at the national level is around 75%. Transport ministry officials said until and unless there is adequate public transport system backed with last-mile connectivity, the government can’t expect people to stop using private vehicles.
 
 According to transport expert Anil Chikkara, Delhi has some unique characteristics unlike the major cities where people usually travel to central business districts (CBDs) for work. “Here, we have poly-directional flow of traffic and hence just public transport won’t suffice. This must be supplemented by robust last-mile connectivity,” he said.
 
 In fact, a study carried out by Centre for Science and Environment last year had found that the average morning and evening peak speed on 13 major arterial roads was 28 kmph and 25 kmph while off-peak speed was about 27 kmph.
 
 “Rather than fixing the problem, successive governments have put more focus on expanding roads and building flyovers to stagger the problem,” said traffic expert Rohit Baluja.
 
 
