JAIPUR: For the first transgender cop of the state, the wait is finally over. After a three-year-long legal battle, 25-year-old Ganga   has been given a posting as a constable in   district.

 Saturday was her first full day at the women’s barrack of Police Lines in Jalore. Ecstatic, Kumari is eagerly awaiting the moment when she will get her police uniform.
 
 
 “When I came here, everyone congratulated me at the barrack. Now, I am waiting for the moment when I will wear a police uniform,” said Kumari.
 
 The posting comes three years after she cleared the constable recruitment examination in 2015.
 
 Ganga to undergo one-year training
 
 Jaipur: “All the other 207 candidates who cleared the exam were immediately given postings. In the medical test, I was declared a transgender and denied posting,” she said.
 
 Kumari decided to challenge the police department’s decision and approached the Rajasthan High Court in 2016. The HC passed an order on November 13, 2017, directing the government to give the appointment letter to her by December 31, 2017. Despite the court’s order, Kumari had to wait for another three months to get a posting. In January, she filed a contempt petition in the high court's Jodhpur bench, alleging that the state government had failed to appoint her, thus flouting the court's earlier order.
 
 “I am happy that I finally got justice. I am the first transgender in the state and the third in India to join police service. Had Ibeen given the posting right after my selection, I would have been the first in the country. Though I regret having missed on that chance, I am glad that change has been accepted and others like me can dare to dream,” Kumari said.
 
  said, “Ganga has got the posting and she will undergo a training for one year. After that, she will get a field posting.”
 
 Kumari’s counsel   said that her legal battle is still not over. “It is heartening that Ganga got her due in the form of appointment. Her legal battle, however, will continue till the government agrees to pay her dues as directed by the court,” said Rathore. “In 2017, the HC had ordered that if the government doesn't give the job to the petitioner by December 31, then from January 1, 2018, she would be entitled to all the emoluments like salary, dearness allowance etc. These are awaited,”   added.
 
