Ludhiana: The serving of notices to people residing near   seems to have become a herculean task for civic officials, who returned empty-handed even on Thursday, when they tried to paste notices on the walls of their houses. Officials had attempted to hand over notices to residents on Tuesday as well, but people had refused to accept notices even then, and had asked officials to first ensure their rehabilitation to the flats.

 Employees of the building branch visited the area near Jagraon Bridge again on Thursday morning. First, they tried to hand over notices to people, but when they refused, the employees tried to paste them outside one of the houses. Again, the people stopped them from doing it, and forced the employees to go back. Then, assistant town planner (headquarters) SS Bindra visited the area to convince the people to accept the notices. Bindra said they tried convincing the people and made them understand that they would have to vacate the place. He added they would serve the notices to them at any cost and vacate the area.
 
 The flats being offered by MC are situated in Giaspura, but the evacuees are either demanding plots or flats in Mundian Kalan. However, officials claimed that flats in Giaspura were ready, and people could shift there immediately, but if they wanted flats in Mundian Kalan, they would have to wait, because power lines are yet to be connected to the flats. Officials also claimed they would put up the matter in the MC general house.
 
 Notably, the removal of these structures has been demanded by the railways authorities before starting reconstruction of one side of the bridge, because these houses are constructed adjacent to the bridge wall, and at the time of construction work, some mishap could take place. Congress MP Ravneet Bittu had asked officials to vacate the houses as soon as possible. 
 
 5 factories sealed, 6 quarters dismantled
 
 Acting on public complaints, MC’s Building branch officials on Thursday sealed five factories operating in houses within the residential area of Sandhu Nagar in Haibowal. Apart from this, they dismantled over six illegal quarters in BRS Nagar — which was originally developed by the Ludhiana Improvement Trust (LIT) — and according to its plan, such quarters could not be constructed in that area. In this matter also, MC had received a complaint. 
 
 
