NEW DELHI: The   intensified on Friday with   commercial establishments in the upscale  . Upper floors and basements of at least 21 establishments were sealed for alleged violation of municipal norms. 

 Among the popular outlets that were targeted were Nathu’s, Number 8 Bar and Kitchen, Curio Palace, Indian Arts Corner and JH Jewelers, apart from several other eateries, art houses and office spaces. An ICICI Bank branch that houses lockers was also sealed. 
 
 Fearing angry reaction from traders, there was heavy police presence at the market in the evening. Delhi police personnel, equipped with teargas shells, and ITBP jawans stood guard, but no violence was reported. The sealing drive started on December 22, 2017, when a three-member committee empowered by the Supreme Court directed authorities to act against shops running “illegally” in Defence Colony. Since then, the drive has spread to different parts of the city, such as Chhatarpur, Mehar Chand Market, Khan Market, Karol Bagh and New Rajinder Nagar, among others. 
 
 Subhash Kawatra, vice-president of the Sunder Nagar market association, said while most traders had already paid the conversion charge, the officials were not checking any papers before sealing their premises. “They have just come here to seal the shops. They are telling us to show any documents we have to the monitoring committee.” 
 
 Komal Jain, another member of the trader's association, said the corporation was not even giving the mandatory notices to businessmen. “At least people should have been informed. Restaurants have perishable items. We are peacefully cooperating; that’s why there is no resistance, but this is plain harassment,” Jain said. 
 
 The market has 34 units. The first floor of six of them continue to be used for residential purposes. 
 
 Ajay Gupta, a trader who owns three units including the one housing Nathu’s, alleged that officials are not acting as per law. “Sundar Nagar Market has a unique identity. It was set up in 1951. According to the 1962 Master Plan, the residential portions of the market were categorised as “non-conforming”; a DDA notification made the 100% commercial status of the market clear in 1990. The market was already commercial before the issue of conversion came up in 2012; so, how can we be made to pay the charge?” Gupta said.
 
 Through the day, the south corporation also targeted shops in the central, west and south zones. Also, 48 garages in DDA flats of Saket H-block were sealed because they were being used for commercial purposes; and 34 units were sealed in BK Dutt Market, Rajouri Garden, including an HDFC Branch, two spas and 23 restaurants. 
 
 North corporation, too, sealed 76 units on Friday. Yogender Singh Mann, spokesperson of north corporation, said: “Twentyone units at New Qutub Road in Sadar Paharganj, 10 in Old Lajpat Rai Market in the Walled City, 11 in Shankar Road Market and four in west Delhi’s Paschim Vihar were sealed for violations like land misuse, unauthorised constructions and FAR non-compliance.” Also, 27 shops were targeted in areas such as Multan Nagar, Maurya Enclave and Model.
 
 
