AHMEDABAD: A special POCSO court in   last year ordered the state government to pay Rs 3 lakh compensation to a rape survivor, but the girl has not received a penny yet. The government says it can’t pay more than Rs 1 lakh to the victim.

 The state government is not willing to pay the victim Rs 3 lakh and moved   high court against the court’s order. The government insists that it can pay only Rs 1 lakh according to its scheme and the court has no power to order how much it should pay rape survivors.
 
 The case involves a 15-year-old rape survivor from Una in   district. She was sexually assaulted in 2015. In March 2017, a special court held the accused persons guilty and sentenced them to 10-year imprisonment for abduction, rape of the minor and for violation of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. The court also ordered the state government to pay compensation of Rs 3 lakh to the rape survivor’s family, under the Victim Compensation Fund Guidelines Schedule-I. The state government did not pay the compensation and in May 2017, wrote to the victim’s father that it would challenge the court’s order, because the compensation ordered is more than the amount fixed under the Gujarat Victim Compensation Scheme, 2016.
 
 The state government moved the HC and urged it to quash the compensation order, stating that it was beyond the scope of the guidelines provided by the state government. The power to fix compensation amount lies with the   (DLSA) only. The POCSO court went beyond the scope of its power in fixing the compensation amount.
 
 Bhavik Samani, the advocate representing the victim’s father in the high court, said that following a   order, the ministry of home affairs issued a notification and made a provision for payment of a minimum compensation of Rs 3 lakh for rape victims. When the HC heard the state government’s arguments, that its norms permit it to pay Rs 1 lakh only, it ordered the government in December 2017 to pay Rs 1 lakh to the victim’s father immediately. The HC also ordered the government to deposit Rs 2 lakh with the HC registry. “It has been six months since HC’s order, but the government has not paid the victim anything,” the lawyer said.
 
