TRICHY: On Sunday morning a group of volunteers from   assembled at the widened   near MGR statue roundabout and scrapped posters of the wall using a specially made sharp steel plate. Their relentless effort for next four hours brought back the original look of the four parapet walls of the bridge.

 Upset over the callous attitude of political parties defacing public walls by pasting posters, the volunteers swung into action to revive the original look.
 
 B  , a software engineer, who led them from the front, expressed a sense of satisfaction the service gave them. “The original wall was hardly visible for several years due to the indiscriminate pasting of posters by political parties and others. An idea struck us and we decided to clean the walls of the bridge. We got to work on Sunday morning with 25 members including some school going boys,” said Vasanthanidhi.
 
 The effort of the volunteers came as a slap in the face of political parties and others who had defaced public walls in Trichy city. “Since the bridge was renovation in 2009, posters marred the appearance of the walls. The stone plaque about the renovation was also covered by posters,” said another volunteer R Anbudasan.
 
 J  , a resident, who crossed the bridge on Sunday was moved by the voluntary activity of the group to make the city clean. He got the youth fruits from a shop nearby. “Their action shows the responsibility towards welfare of the society. On seeing them at work, I felt bad about my inability to join them due to my scheduled plan. So, I wanted to make a small contribution by providing them some fruits,” said Fredrick.
 
 Initially, the group fetched water from the corporation run toilet nearby to wet the wall posters so that it would come off easily. Later on request, the Trichy city corporation arranged for a facility through their vehicle to help the youth. They also provided a truck to take the torn wall posters for disposal.
 
 City corporation chief engineer S Amudhavalli said that the defacement of walls and pasting of posters remained a big menace in the city. “The effort of the youths should be appreciated. Instead of enjoying the holiday, the youth took painstaking effort to clean the city,” appreciated Amudhavalli.
 
 
