MUMBAI: For seven years since their only child was murdered, Santosh and Sheetal Railkar had forgotten what it felt like being  . Last month, fate smiled on them again when Sheetal delivered   —a boy and a girl—through assisted reproduction.

 Their world had imploded on June 3, 2011, when they returned to their Sion-Koliwada house from work to find their three-year-old daughter Vaishnavi and Sheetal’s mother Ranjana Nagotkar, 55, lying in a pool of blood, their throats slit. The accused was a trusted neighbour who wanted to rob them. Sheetal had discovered the lifeless bodies.
 
 “We had stopped living our lives since that day. We didn’t sleep well for years or had one satisfying meal. My wife never went back to work. The only thing that kept me going was my resolve to get justice for my daughter and mother-in-law,” said Santosh.
 
 As the days dragged on in a joyless, painful life, their well-wishers advised them to seek the happiness of parenthood again. Speaking to TOI at Surya Children’s Hospital in Santacruz, where his twins are currently admitted, Santosh said that at 44, he was least expecting to become a father again. “Everyone advised us to start a family. When I first saw the twins, I became hopeful that we could heal and be happy again,” he said. Sheetal, 37, calls it the beginning of a new chapter in their lives.
 
 But Santosh and Sheetal, who vividly remember every detail of the horrific crime, are clear that their focus hasn’t shifted from getting justice for Vaishnavi and her grandmother. “My life has been split between office and court. Every time the accused went to a higher court for bail, I went after him to oppose it. I have thwarted seven bail attempts, including one at the Supreme Court,” said Santosh.
 
  “It’s a whirlwind of emotions, sometimes its immense grief and sometimes its anger. I never took up a job and became the main complainant as I wanted to be present for every step of the police investigation and court proceedings,” she said. In all these years, the only time she missed court hearings were in the last few weeks of her pregnancy with the twins.
 
 Soon after the double murders, they left their house and moved to Mumbai Central. “Everything in that house reminded us of her,” said Santosh. Even at work at the ENT Municipal Hospital in Fort, he found it difficult to be around children and would tear up seeing them. When Sheetal delivered the twins on January 19, there were tears of joy. Santosh broke down as he held the twins for the first time.
 
 After much prodding, the   consulted fertility experts Dr Nandita Palshetkar and Dr Hrishikesh Pai a year ago. “When they came to us, they were still disturbed and traumatized. They had lost faith in the world; shocked that someone who frequented their house could do such a heinous thing,” said Palshetkar, adding that Sheetal conceived without much complication.
 
 The twins, who are yet to be named, were born prematurely at 29 weeks. “The boy weighed 1.6kg and the girl 1.3kg. We had to put them on non-invasive ventilators for four to six days. They have completed 35 weeks now and are doing well. They should be ready to go home in a few days,” said Dr Nandkishor Kabra, consultant neonatologist and director of NICU at Surya Hospital. The hospital has assured they will heavily subsidise the treatment cost that may go up to Rs 15 lakh. The couple said they have been trying to raise money from various trusts.
 
 Santosh said joy has returned to their house after seven long years. “We are still thinking of names. We may have a low-key celebration now till the babies are completely fine,” said Sheetal.
 
 The new mother has her hands full, but justice for Vaishnavi and Ranjana is top priority. “The trial is in its final stages with all witnesses already examined. We will not stop till justice has been delivered,” said Sheetal.
 
 
