HYDERABAD: The Urs of Moula Ali reached its crescendo on Thursday as thousands of people cutting across religious lines visited the hill shrine to celebrate the 453rd anniversary of the apparition of Hazrat Ali, son-in-law of Prophet Muhammad. Ever since the holy apparition, the hill shrine has been associated with miracles and cures, drawing people from far and wide.

 It was on the 17th of  , 986 AH (corresponding to September 18, 1578 CE) that the denuded and deserted hill chain in the modern day Moula Ali area shot into international prominence after Hazrat Ali appeared in an apparition to a noble man and his mureed(follower) Yakut. This year the 17th of Rajab, 1439 AH fell on April 5, marking completion of 453 years (lunar calendar) of Moula Ali shrine and its famous Urs celebrations.
 
 People began visiting the famous hill shrine on the 13th of Rajab (April 1), which marks the birth anniversary of Hazrat Ali. The celebrations concluded on the 17th of Rajab coinciding with the apparition of Hazrat Ali to Yakut, though pilgrims continue to pour in at the hill shrine throughout the lunar month. Thousands of devotees lined up the shrine, 2017 feet above the sea level, chanting “Ya Ali Madad” and “Ya Ali Mushkil Kusha” and carrying flower garlands, festoons, and chadar for offering.
 
 Long processions carrying the traditional Sehra (festoon) on camels, horses, elephant, palanquins and opentop vehicles were witnessed in the early hours of Thursday. The entire Moula Ali came to life with colourful lights erected all over, and devotional music and hymns played on loud speakers. Moula Ali shrine is one of the few places where people cutting across religious, caste and sectarian lines turn up every year in large numbers.
 
 Re-enacting the   and Asaf Jahi traditions, the devout kept awake all through the night attending religious sermons in old city and later carrying the Sehra in caparisoned camels and horses and decorated vehicles to Moula Ali, passing through the traditional route –Bagh Lingampally, Tarnaka, and Lalapet.
 
 According to official archival records, Moula Ali Urs was famous even among the British Residents and their staff.  , a British Resident, had stayed at the Moula shrine seeking spiritual solace and fresh air. In November 1800, he wrote to the British government in Calcutta (Kolkata) seeking permission to leave the British Residency in   and camp at Moula Ali.
 
 During the Qutub Shahi period and early   regime, the entire city used to literally shift to Moula Ali to seek the blessings. The shrine once had 250 acres attached to it. It’s now under encroachment, robbing the shrine of its property and ambience.
 
