UDAIPUR: Udaipur city was hit by a series of vandalism on Thursday by members of   and other organizations who held a half-day bandh which they called 'Janata Curfew' from 9 am to 12.30 pm.

 Supporters pelted stones at two-wheeler showrooms, broke glasses of two and four wheelers parked on roadsides. Commuters were harassed and shopkeepers were intimidated as protesters forced entered into shops and threw things. Tyres were burnt at many places leaving the streets in smokes. 
 
 Protesters marched through the busiest streets through Udiapole, Surajpole, Bapu Bazar and burnt tyres in the heart of the city at Delhi Gate. At Toran Bavdi, they messed up with shopkeepers who had opened their shops. Vandals drove customers away and damaged products put on showcases. At BN College Road, they stoned at a two-wheeler showroom and broke glasses.
 
 Police forces chased many of the miscreants who harassed women and commuters passing by. Heavy forces were deployed outside the two malls which housed theatre halls, fearing riots, people refrained from going to these centres for shopping and eating. Most of the outlets were seen deserted throughout the day.
 
 Chittorgarh turned into a fortress with heavy police at every nook and corner of the town. Nagaur, Banswara, Udaipur, Jodhpur, Sikar, Jaisalmer, Sawai Madhopur, Pratapgarh and Khetdi also witnessed the impact of the shutdown.
 
 The plying of buses in Udaipur and Banswara was temporarily stopped to avert any untoward incident. According to sources, tourists were stopped from visiting Chittorgarh fort and Jaisalmer.
 
 In Chittorgarh, police was successful in preventing protests in the city. With high security at the fort gates, none of the Kshatrani Jauhar Manch turned up for a demonstration, however, leaders of the Karni Sena announced to make a movie on Sanjay Leela Bhansali's mom.
 
 Speaking at a press conference Karni Sena's district president Govind Singh Khangarot said, “Returning a movie for a movie, we will make a film on the real life of Bhansali's mom which will be titled 'Leela ki Leela'. We had not believed that the movie would be released but now since it has been released in the country and Bhansali has humiliated our mother, he would receive the same treatment. It will be a movie he would be proud of.” 
 
 
