CHENNAI: It was a rebirth for S Jamini, a 50-year-old narikurava, and his seven-year-old son Venkatesan, who were rescued from what was turning into a watery grave on Thursday evening. Jamini, his wife Jayanthi and son were going on their   on the   bypass bridge when the vehicle hit the parapet wall and the two fell into the   lake, from where head   J Venkatesan managed to pull them out.

 They were taken to Sri Ramachandra Medical Centre, Porur, where Jamini, who sustained injuries to the chest, is recovering.
 
 The incident occurred around 4.15pm, when the Padappai-based couple were going on their TVS Excel with their son, a   and several bags. 
 
 Police sources said Jamini might have sped ahead the near-empty bypass under the influence of alcohol. 
 
 “Jamini lost control of the vehicle when he reached the   and rammed the vehicle onto the parapet wall, in the impact of which his wife fell off the moped and onto the road, having a lucky escape. The pup too managed to jump off the vehicle and stayed on the flyover. However, Jamini and his son plunged right into the lake, leaving the vehicle behind,” said an officer privy to the incident.
 
 Horrified seeing her son and husband fall 25ft into the lake, Jayanthi raised alarm seeking the help of passersby. J Venkatesan, the head constable attached to Porur traffic enforcement wing who was on patrol duty, received an alert of the incident from the control room and rushed to the spot just 50 metres away from his standpoint. 
 
 Venkatesan jumped into the water on seeing the two squirm about and managed to pull out the child first, as he was struggling to stay on top of the 5-ft deep water. Jamini, despite knowing how to swim, was not able to save himself as he was drunk.
 
 “I panicked on seeing the child drown and managed to grab hold of the duo by their hair. By then, a few more personnel helped me out,” said Venkatesan, detailing on the rescue. 
 
 The child escaped without injuries. Further investigations are on by Porur traffic investigation police.
 
 
