GURUGRAM: Developers have now started following residents in questioning the rationale behind   charging property taxes in privately developed areas, where the corporation does not undertake any development work such as construction of internal roads, sewage lines or water supply infrastructure.

 Taking a shot at the civic body while replying to DTCP’s notice regarding takeover of Sushant Lok 1,   Limited has written that MCG should use property taxes worth Rs 20 crore it has collected from Sushant Lok 1 over the past decade for operation and maintenance, instead of asking the developer to shell out the money.
 
 The developer’s response states, “MCG is collecting house/property tax from residents of this colony ever since 2007/2008, which is roughly estimated by us @ Rs 2 crore per annum at current rates. This comes to Rs 20 crore till 2017-18.” It further read that besides collecting such taxes from residents of the colony, MCG has neither done anything, nor provided any service, compared to the rest of the city.
 
 When approached for comment, developer Ansal API Limited confirmed their response and said MCG is collecting approximately Rs 2 crore a year from residents for the last decade, but hasn’t ploughed any of the money back for the colony’s development.
 
 TOI had earlier reported that Ansal has written to the urban local bodies department, stating they are not party to any of the decisions taken by the government regarding the colony’s takeover. This followed a notice sent to the developer by   asking it to pay up Rs 97 crore as maintenance and infrastructure upgrade before takeover. One of the developer’s major contentions is that with MCG having collected   for so many years, they should not be paying operation and maintenance charges for five years after takeover, as demanded.
 
 Residents from many private areas, including Sushant Lok 1, have already raised objections over MCG collecting property taxes from residents of these areas, when it is not doing any internal development there.
 
 
