THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Unlike in the previous years, this year all   including fire-fighting units and ambulances operated during Attukal Pongala day will be coordinated by the police. This is done to improve the efficacy of the emergency services, said city   commissioner P Prakash. 

 Addressing a news conference on Wednesday, Prakash said that a police officer each with a wireless communicator will be deployed in all the fire engines and ambulances that will be operated during the Pongala. This includes not just the ambulances of the health department but private ambulances too. This would facilitate prompt dissemination of information among cops and senior officers would remain updated about each and every development. 
 
 The security cover in the city would be tightened from Thursday morning onwards by deploying more cops. As many as 4,200 cops will be deployed in this regard. Out of this 1,200 cops are women. This also includes 25 deputy superintendents, 62 inspectors including 12 women, 450 sub-inspectors and 2,300 male civil police officers. 
 
 The police have divided key areas of focus into four zones and an officer of the rank of superintendent of police would be leading the operations in each zone. 
 
 The temple and its premises are marked as  , where the security will be handled by the woman battalion led by commandant R Nishanthini. There will also be an all-woman quick response team deployed for the first time on the temple premises. 
 
 The security duty on the outside, where devotees offer pongala, will be under the supervision of deputy commissioner of police (City, Law and Order) G Jaidev. DCP (Sreepadmanabha Swamy Temple Division) V  , will be in charge of the Traffic Zone which deals with traffic regulation and parking of vehicles. 
 
 The fourth and final area is Emergency Zone, which pertains to attending to contingencies such as burn accidents and health emergencies. DCP (City, Administration) N   will lead the operations of Emergency Zone. 
 
 The commissioner also said that all major government and private hospitals in the city have been asked to be ready in order to face any health emergency. 
 
 The temple premises and nearby areas will be monitored using 65 surveillance cameras. Two drone cameras will be used for areal supervision of the activities.
 
 
