CHANDIGARH: Panjab University syndicate on Saturday approved the recommendations in its   guidelines, 2017, in accordance with the UGC minimum standards and procedure and award of MPhil/PhD degrees. Now, the research scholar enrolled before 2017 will be counted as half and not one.

 According to the guidelines, a supervisor is allowed to guide eight scholars. So, if a supervisor has eight scholars enrolled before 2017, they would be counted as four and the supervisor would be able to guide four more research scholars. 
 
 Moreover, the matter related to the withdrawal of the signed copy of the VC’s wife Prof Neera Grover was also deferred for the next syndicate meeting since VC said that the matter should be discussed when he does not preside over the meeting. 
 
 The syndicate approved the minutes of the committee which were framed for the qualification, guidelines, nature of post among others for the chief of university security. The syndicate also approved the minutes of the committee on the issue of incorporating amendments in the application form and the template for the post of assistant professor. Moreover, the syndicate approved the admission guidelines (affiliated colleges) for the session 2018-19.
 
 The syndicate accepted the donation of Rs 4 lakh made by Dr Darshan Singh, emeritus professor of PU for the institution of endowment named as   lecture in the department of UIPS and Guru Nanak Sikh Studies. 
 
 The syndicate discussed all the issues relating to the salaries of teaching and non-teaching staff working in various affiliated colleges (Govt Sector as well as privately managed Colleges) of Panjab University. The vice-chancellor Arun Kumar Grover observed that the transcript of the discussions should be sent to chancellor’s office.
 
 PU to seek salary details of staff of 2 colleges
 
 PU syndicate resolved to seek information regarding details of salaries being paid to the staff in two colleges, in particular, Shree Atam Vallabh Jain College, Ludhiana, and DD Jain College, Ludhiana. A committee including syndicate members Prabhjit, I S Sidhu, Harpreet Dua and   to look into the matter. Sources said that Sidhu and   raised the point that the teachers working in the college from the last 15 years are given less increments and have not been given any grades. Sidhu said that these colleges are aided colleges and the salaries of the teachers working in these colleges had been hardly increased. In this matter, it was also resolved to start periodic inspections of the colleges by sending team of the university professors with proper guidelines.
 
 
