BELAGAVI:   of Ramdurg town, fighting for the protection and rejuvenation of   for the past 15 years through the court, has reiterated the power of an individual in a democracy.

 Thanks to her efforts, Ramdurg became the first town of the district to get  . 
 
 A doctor by profession and environmentalist by passion, Dr Poornima wants the Malaprabha to be developed on the lines of the  . She recently wrote to Prime Minister   and chief minister   about it.
 
 The Malaprabha, which originates in the   near   in Khanapur taluk, flows through Savadatti, Ramdurg, Badami in Gadag district and joins the Krishna river at Kudalasangama in Bagalkot district. The Naviluteerth dam, built in Savadatti taluk, is one of the main sources of drinking water for Hubballi-Dharwad. She wants the 172-km stretch of the river from Naviluteerth to Kudalasangama to be rejuvenated by removing encroachments.
 
 Her story goes back to 2003 when she filed a PIL in the Karnataka high court, seeking potable drinking water to Ramdurg town and cleaning of river after she found many people falling sick by drinking impure water. Within a year, the government set up a water purification plant of 4.54 billion gallon litres spending Rs 5 crore in Ramdurg and started supplying potable water. Besides, the government gave an undertaking to the court that it would clean the river. 
 
 The government also laid a pipeline from Naviluteerth to Ramdurg at a cost of Rs 68.76 crore and spent Rs 19 crore on underground drainage in Ramdurg town. To get all this done, Dr Poornima never left a stone unturned.
 
 The government took up river rejuvenation on the outskirts of Ramdurg at a cost of Rs 7 crore, but she is not happy with the standard of work and the lack of a survey of encroachment. Activists allege that in the name of rejuvenation, contractors sold sand from the river. Besides, pitching work of river walls is sub-standard which got flushed out recently after the first heavy rain last year.
 
 Challenging the sub-standard work, Poornima filed complaint with the   in March 2017. The Lokayukta served notices to the implementation authority -- the irrigation department to give a report on river encroachment from Naviluteerth to Kudalasangam. The irrigation department sought the same report from the Belagavi regional commissioner and the deputy commissioners of Belagavi, Gadag and Bagalkot districts. However, survey work is going on at snail’s pace.
 
 Poornima said farmers have encroached upon hundreds of acres on the riverbanks which need to be cleared for natural flow of water. Because of encroachment, the river is getting narrower and this must be stopped immediately. Due to political intervention, survey work is not going as fast as expected. 
 
 Poornima said the government has estimated the cost of rejuvenation at Rs 1 crore per km. If the government feels it’s a huge amount, the work can be taken up as a joint venture of state and centre governments since the river is national property, she said.
 
 
