Over the years, Bollywood has seen directors offering a peek into their personal lives through their films. For example, Mahesh Bhatt’s Zakhm and   were taken out of the pages of his own life, and are also considered as some of the most moving semi-autobiographical films of Hindi cinema. Speaking of which, Sudhir Mishra’s upcoming film   reminisces the life and times of his late partner — renowned film editor  . The story revolves around his relationship with her and their last days together before her death in 2000, following a battle with cancer. While   will be seen essaying the lead role of Saluja, the actor who will play Sudhir, is yet to be cast.

 Renu, an FTII (Film and Television Institute of India) alumna and four-time National Award-winning editor for Parinda (1989), Dharavi (1991), Sardar (1993) and Godmother (1999), was revered by filmmakers like Shekhar Kapur, Govind Nihalani, Kundan Shah and Vidhu Vinod Chopra. Some of her other well-known films include Jaane Bhi Do Yaaro (1983), Kabhi Haan Kabhi Naa (1993), Bandit Queen (1995), Pardes (1997), Rockford (1999) and Hey Ram (2000). Nagesh Kukunoor’s Bollywood Calling and Sudhir’s Calcutta Mail, released in 2003, were her last edited films. 
 
  
  
 
 In an exclusive chat with Bombay Times, Sudhir revealed, “I became who I am because of her. I’ve been meaning to make a film on her life for the longest time and I am glad it’s happening now. She was way ahead of her time and one of the most brilliant and compassionate women who I have known. I will be directing the film and have co-written it as well.” About the film, he explained, “Towards the end of her life, she started rejecting me and I had to stand by her, no matter what. Those were trying times as she was going through a lot after being diagnosed with cancer. She began introspecting, reexamining her own life as one tends to do towards the end. My film is predominantly about that — from her point of view and in context to our relationship during that period. It compels you to think, ‘Can you stand by a person who wants to push you away?’” 
 
 Renu was previously married to filmmaker Vidhu Vinod Chopra. When asked if he, too, will be portrayed in the film, Sudhir said, “There will be references. As an individual, you make certain choices and other relationships are a part of it. She and Vinod continued to be friends and worked together even after they separated. In fact, she was editing Vidhu’s Mission Kashmir before she passed away. Director   eventually completed the film." There were reports of Vidhu also planning to make a film on her, many years ago. Speaking of it, Sudhir added, “I had heard about it. If he wants to do it, he should. It’s always interesting to see the other person’s point of view as well. I don’t own her. It’s his right, as they shared a beautiful friendship. Vidhu and I have never had any problems with each other, contrary to speculations. He is a great guy and we were there, together, at her funeral.” 
 
  
  
 
 The film will also shed light on Saluja’s fiercely independent nature and her ability to call a spade a spade. Sudhir said, “She wasn’t biased. If I had an argument with someone, she would never support me if I was wrong. She would always do and say what she thought was right. We talk about feminism today, but what she did years ago was empowering for women — making a mark in a field (film editing) that was essentially dominated by men. She was financially independent, more successful, liked and popular than me.” 
 
 As far as Aditi Rao Hydari’s casting is concerned, the director reasoned, “I like Aditi as an actor. She lends that soft sensitivity to a character. Renu was best known for two things — her infectious laughter and impromptu singing. She would constantly laugh despite the serious nature of her work and would sing Hindi songs at any given point. Aditi can sing and has that smile as well, so she was the perfect choice. The film is slated to go on floors this year.” 
 
  
 
 
 
 
