NEW DELHI: You won’t have to depend on strangers for your   number/route if the Delhi government’s pilot project on ‘integrated   maps’ becomes a success. 

 The project, launched on Thursday, seeks to provide detailed city transit maps, information on bus routes and timings, and the first and the last buses on a   — all on a board next to the bus shelters. Delhi has approximately 5,000 bus stops, out of which around 1,200 are bus shelters.
 
 
 Inaugurating the first info panel at the Delhi Secretariat  , transport minister Kailash Gahlot said, “The project is aimed at commuters who are unable to use the bus network as they find it difficult to locate the routes and timings.” 
 
 Initially, four shelters in busy areas like IIT-Delhi will be developed. “In the next one and a half years, we will cover all bus shelters and also introduce real-time tracking of arrival times at the shelters like the metro,” Gahlot said. 
 
 Each board will also have a detailed neighbourhood map of 1km diameter around the shelter indicating the major landmarks. “In two weeks, the government will launch the revamped Poocho app by incorporating the bus transit maps,” he added.
 
 Sudipto Ghosh, an architect at Citywise—a Delhi-based design and mapping firm, said, “These maps, developed over an year, contain information on all public buses except the DMRC-run ones. The Delhi Secretariat shelter, for example, caters to 33 different routes—all of which have been indicated using a different colour code on a diagrammatic map of the city. People can pick their routes and even see where to interchange.” 
 
 While the transit maps have been designed following the norms in cities such as New York and London, the neighbourhood maps are to the scale.
 
 The developers said feedback would be taken from people using the pilot shelters. “We are already planning to bring the transit map below and the neighbourhood map on the top of the panel,” said Shimonti Sinha, a graphic designer associated with the project.
 
 
