SALEM: Devotees and wildlife activists in the city expressed shock over the Madras high court order allowing the mercy killing (euthanasia) of   temple elephant Rajeswari, citing its ailments.

 City-based activist and founder of Tiruthoundargal Sabai A   said the health condition of the elephant deteriorated only because of the negligence of Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowment (HR&CE) officials. “They did not show any interest to save the elephant,” he said. Radhakrishnan said the elephant had suffered two fractures in its forelegs and the officials have not taken any step to treat the fractures.
 
 As the 38-year-old elephant had deformation in its left forelimb since its birth, Rajeswari had to stand on its right forelimb. The elephant developed lameness in its forelimb for the past six weeks. It was lying down on the ground for the last one month.
 
 About 20 days ago, the HR&CE officials lifted the jumbo without getting consent from the animal husbandry and forest officials department, using an earthmover. When they lifted the sickly elephant, it had fallen down on the other side and lost one of its tusks. 
 
 “The elephant is now struggling to eat due to severe pain in its mouth,” Radhakrishnan said.
 
 When local wildlife activists and Radhakrishnan took the issue to the top level, principal secretary of forest department Nasimuddin immediately sent an expert team led by Dr Manoharan two weeks ago. Similarly, a team of specialists from   of the Tamil Nadu Veterinary and   (TANNUVAS) in Namakkal also inspected the elephant. They had taken blood and urine samples for lab tests.
 
 Wildlife activist   said the HR&CE officials and forest officials did not give any support to him when he approached them with an assurance to treat the elephant without getting any monitory benefits from the government. He informed them that he would bring an expert from Guwahati to treat the elephant. “I also told the officials that I would bring an international expert from Vietnam to treat,” he said, adding that officials did not give their consent. 
 
 When contacted by TOI, joint commissioner of HR&CE T Varadharajan denied the charges. 
 
 “We are also taking all the steps to save the elephant,” he said. Varadharajan said he would take a decision on killing the elephant under euthanasia after getting the high court order.
 
 
