KOZHIKODE: Before the   team stepped on to court to take on   in the first semifinal of the 66th Senior Volleyball Championship here on Monday, Sunny   had asked his girls to remain focused throughout the match. Focus they did as they beat a relatively weak Tamil Nadu side, without their captain  , 25-14, 25-17, 25-21 to seal their spot in the final of the tournament.

 
 Kerala will face the winner of the second semifinal between Railways and Maharashtra on Wednesday.
 
 Later in the men's semifinal, Railways overcame Services in an entertaining three-set encounter 25-17, 34-32, 25-14 to storm into the final. After winning the first set in a convincing manner, Services men came back strong to fire in all cylinders and looked in control. But Railways showed their grit and never let the rivals run away with the set. As both teams matched each other point for point, it turned out to be the longest set of the tournament so far as Railways edged their rivals 34-32.
 
 The defeat in the second set seemed to have taken the fire out of Services' game as they offered a meek surrender in the final set, losing it 25-14.
 
 Railways' Kerala player and captain Manu Joseph, K Ragul, S Prabhagaran and   were in great form while Kiran Raj TR, Pankaj Sharma and   did most of the scoring for the Services men. Railways will face the winners of the second semifinal between Kerala and Tamil Nadu in the final on Wednesday.
 
 In the first women's semifinal, Kerala women, yet to lose a set in the ongoing championship, got off to a great start with experienced stars Anju Balakrishnan, captain G Anjumol and Indian international S Rekha leading their attack. On the other hand, Tamil Nadu defence wilted under pressure and sorely missed the services of Aiswarya. Except Stancy Anifa Fernandes's smashes and L Iswariya's cheeky drop shots, there was nothing great in TN's first set performance.
 
 Young setter Jini KS was in great form for the hosts. "She was setting like an experienced male setter today. Jini was outstanding," coach Sunny lauded Jini's performance after the match.
 
 Though Kerala attackers continued their good form in the second set too, their blocking was not at their best. Stancy and S Sangeetha of TN looked good and split Kerala defence with some accurate smashes. Sniffing danger, Kerala regrouped quickly to seal the second set.
 
 For the first time in the match, Tamil Nadu girls took the lead scoring the first point of the third set. TN coach P Jegatheesan had replaced their number one setter RG Arya with K   in the second set but brought the former back in the final set. Arya who is from Kozhikode, took control with her fine setting, and Tamil Nadu maintained their one-point lead till 5-4. But Kerala's Anjaly Babu, who has been in superb form, gave Kerala the lead with her heavy smashes and from then on there was no looking back for the hosts.
 
 Results: Semifinals: Women: Kerala bt Tamil Nadu 25-14, 25-17, 25-21; Men: Railways bt Services 25-17, 34-32, 25-14.
 
