Madurai: Union minister Nirmala Sitharaman, who visited two Dalit villages in Ramanathapuram district, to review the implementation of central government schemes, faced hostility from DMK cadres on Wednesday. The cadres waived black flags at her and stones were pelted at the vehicles that followed the minister’s convoy, protesting the non-constitution of the Cauvery Management Board. Ramanathapuram and Virudhunagar are among the 115 most backward districts, aspirational districts, in the country, which are to be developed under the India Mission 2022 program. In January this year, the Union Minister Nirmala Sitharaman, conducted review meetings with the district administration and officials of the two districts. Speaking to reporters at the Madurai airport, on Wednesday she said that villages had been identified for developing, and they had a dominant Dalit population and the implementation of central government schemes there would be reviewed. She visited Kallikudi village near Paramakudi and reviewed the implementation of ‘Gram Swaraj Abhiyan’, which has been on from April 14 and will conclude on May 5. Jeyakodi a resident, told the minister that there were many problems in their village, including water scarcity, where they were forced to purchase water for Rs 6 a pot, and that roads were bad. The Ramanathapuram district collector S Natarajan, who was present, said that the village would get water soon, as a borewell was to be laid. The minister told him that he should ensure immediate supply of water through tankers, and not wait till the borewell is laid. She then asked Jeyakodi to update her on the developments, by messing her. However, the minister did not share any number to which the message had to be sent, said the resident. She also participated in a bangle ceremony for expectant mothers and distributed free cooking gas connections. Women who did not have gas connections were identified and the district revenue officer was asked to ensure that the connections were given to them by May 5. Ramanathapuram DMK district secretary S T Divakaran said that he had come to understand that the minister had come to review the implementation of schemes when he protested her visit. “This is something that is being done for publicity with the Dalit vote bank in mind, if they really wanted to develop the district, they should bring in factories and industries or at least lay foundation stones for them before the elections,” he said. Later she reviewed the implementation of the schemes in Kalaiyur village, in Paramakudi, in the district. Talking to reporters there she said that BJP would win the Karnataka polls and that they would ensure that the party would win other elections as well. The Minister had dinner at the house of a BJP member in Kalaiyur before proceeding to Madurai. She will conduct review meetings in Virudhunagar on Thursday.