A week after legendary actress  's untimely demise,   took to her social media account to share a heart-wrenching note with all her fans, followers and well-wishers. The heartbroken and shattered young starlet, who is set to make her Bollywood debut in the film ' ', shared an emotional post asking her mother's fans for just one thing on the occasion of her birthday - "to love your parents." 

  
  The aspiring actress opened her heart out on Instagram with a note that read, "On my birthday, the only thing I ask of all of you is that you love your parents. Cherish them and devote yourself to making them feel that love. They have made you. And I ask that you remember my mother fondly, pray for her soul to rest in peace. Let the love and adulation you’ll showered on her continue and please know that the biggest part of my mother was the love she shared with papa. And their love is immortal because there was nothing like it in the whole world. Nothing as joyful and pure and no two people as devoted to one another as they were. Please respect that because it hurts to think anyone would ever try to tarnish it. Preserving the sanctity of what they had would mean the world not only to my mother but also to a man whose entire being revolved around her, and her two children who are all that remains of their love. Me and Khushi have lost our mother but papa has lost his “Jaan”. She was so much more than just an actor or a mother or a wife. She was the ultimate and the best in all these roles. It mattered a great deal to her to give love and to get love. For people to be good and gracious and kind. She didn’t understand frustration or malice or jealousy. So let’s be that. Let’s be full of only good and give only love. That would make her happy, to know that even in death, she gave you all something. The courage and inspiration to fill yourselves with nothing but love and rid yourselves of bitterness in any way and form. That’s what she stood for. Dignity, strength and innocence. 
 
 
 
 Thank you for the love and support everyone has shown us in the past couple of days. It’s given us hope and strength and we can’t thank you all enough."
 
 On Wednesday, Sridevi's grieving husband Boney Kapoor, also took to social media to share a few words about his wife. In his heartfelt note, he said, “She was our life, our strength and the reason we always smiled. We love her beyond measure."
 
 Boney said losing a friend, wife and a mother of two young daughters was a loss inexplicable in words. “I would like to express my sincere gratitude to my family, friends, colleagues, well-wishers and all of you countless fans of my Sridevi who have stood by us like rocks.”
 
 
 Janhvi's debut film opposite Ishaan Khatter is scheduled to release on 6 July 2018.
 
  
  
 
