RANCHI: Commuters had to face a tough time on Sunday as only 25 out of 91 city buses were seen plying on the streets. The commuters were inconvenienced after one of the two bus operators' contract was cancelled.

 Many people were seen standing at bus stops for a long duration and finally they were left with no other option but to pay extra to rickshaws and e-rickshaws to reach their destinations.
 
 "I had to take the bus from   to ITI but the bus did not arrive. I was left with no option but to pay Rs 15 in a share auto as opposed to Rs 5, the fare of a city bus," said  , a daily commuter. 
 
  terminated the contract of transporter Suresh Singh, who was given the responsibility to operate and manage city buses in three routes, as he was not following the terms and conditions of the agreement. As a result, 66 city buses went off the road from three routes.
 
 The tender for plying 91 city buses was given to two transporters - Suresh Singh and Kishore Mantri. While   was given the responsibility of plying 25 city buses, Suresh Singh was handed over the management of 26 new and 40 old buses.
 
 The city buses plied on four routes, of which 25 buses under Kishore Mantri covered the route from   to Dhurwa while the buses under Singh were to ply on three routes, including Nagri to Ormanjhi via Bariatu, ITI bus stand to   via Harmu bypass and ITI bus stand to Ranchi station via Circular Road.
 
 Now, only 25 city buses operated by Kishore Mantri, are plying on one out of the four designated routes.
 
 Saurav Verma, city manager (transport) said, "Suresh Singh was not following the terms of agreement. We were getting many complaints against him, including the fact that he was not plying the 40 old buses, diversion from the given routes, outsourcing the operation of buses and many more. As a result, the contract has been terminated."
 
 A tender was floated again for management of these 66 buses but none of the transporters took part in it.   will float the tender again on Monday. "RMC is taking over the 66 buses till the new tender is opened. We are assessing the condition of these buses right now and within a week, all the buses will be back on road after repair and maintenance," Verma added.
 
 
