Tiruvannamalai: Hundreds of newly constructed individual household latrines (IHHLs) in several remote villages at Jawadhu Hills in Tiruvannamalai district – under the central government’s flagship programme of Swachh Bharat Mission (SBM) (Gramin) – leave a lot to be desired as they are becoming   after a day or two and in some cases within a couple of weeks.

 The district rural development agency (DRDA) had taken up construction of over 5,000 units of IHHLs in 11 panchayats of Jawadhu block. However, the units were apparently constructed without following the standard model, thus the end product is hardly of any use. Today the beneficiaries are forced to use these toilets as stockroom, coop or for some other purpose. 
 
 For instance, a look at the 40-odd IHHLs, constructed at Palapirampattu village in Gaanamalai panchayat a month ago, says it all. It’s nothing short of a worn-out stockroom. “They (contractor) have placed a basin (squatting pan toilet) covered with sand and poured cement mixture over it to cover the sand,” said Sivaji, one of the beneficiaries of the scheme. He charged that the one constructed at his son’s house does not even have the squatting pan  . 
 
 All that the contractors and authorities wanted was photographs of the beneficiaries’ name written on the steel door of the IHHLs for their records, alleged the beneficiaries. “The officials and contractors are benefitting from the scheme, not us,” said a youth in the village.
 
 D Dasarathan of Thombareddiyur alleged that the IHHLs constructed at villages in Gaanamalai and Nammiyampattu and surrounding panchayats turned defunct within a couple of weeks.
 
 According to the design of IHHLs under SBM (G), the structure should be 3 ft X 4 ft with 6 ft tall wall, with a slanting roof. Two cement rings (3 ft radius) should be used to construct the lice pits for the latrine.
 
 Deviating from the standard structure model, the contractors did a shoddy job, constructing the latrines in a way so that they could pocket around Rs 5,000 from each unit, alleged one of the beneficiaries, on condition of anonymity, in   village. He added that around 40 units have been allocated for the village and they are under construction. 
 
 “The latrines are hardly fit for purpose. They are like a chamber with 2.5 ft width. The size is so small that adults can hardly enter it,” alleged another beneficiary in Nammiyapattu panchayat. 
 
 Sources in the DRDA department said barring the latrines constructed in villages close to Jamunamaruthur, the other units in remote villages are of poor quality and not adhering to the prescribed model.
 
 Block development officer (village panchayat) of Jamunamaruthur L Srinivasan said that owing to a shortage of cement ring, the construction of the units hasn’t got over in several villages. 
 
 Collector K S Kandasamy said that an inquiry will be conducted on the standard of the units completed in Jawadhu Hills and appropriate action will be taken, if any deviation in plan and structures is found.
 
 
