PUNE: The time is ticking for the civic body to complete the pre-monsoon works, including cleaning nullahs and stormwater drains.

 The deadline to be monsoon-ready is May 31. Mayor Mukta Tilak said, “Pre-monsoon works were reviewed in a meeting with the PMC ( ) officials earlier this week. They have been instructed to complete everything before the deadline and take steps to ensure problems like flash flood do not arise.” 
 
 Jagdish Khanore, the head of the corporation’s stormwater drainage department, said, “Short- and long-term projects are being carried out. The latter have been under way for a couple of years. The overhaul of the drainage system and nullahs in the city is a part of this project.” 
 
 He said the short-term projects were being executed at the ward-level. “Details about these works will be available only after the deadline is over,” he said. 
 
 According to PMC officials, an average of Rs10 lakh is being spent on pre-monsoon works at each of the 15 ward offices. 
 
 The road department had set May 15 deadline to complete all roadwork, including digging and restoration. “Now, roads can be dug up only in an emergency, after getting approval from the civic administration,” said Aniruddha Pavaskwar, the head of the PMC’s road department. 
 
 Pavaskwar said the details of how much work was done would be available in a couple of days, after a meeting with officials overseeing the digging and restoration works. 
 
 About 400km of roads are dug up on an average annually for various works, like laying pipelines and cables.
 
 “The pre-monsoon works under way in different areas include removal of debris from the nullahs, cleaning of stormwater drains and cleaning lids on drainage chambers,” said zonal commissioner Sunil Kesari.
 
 According to the PMC data, the stormwater drainage network has been designed to carry 56mm of rainwater, while the nullahs have been channelized to sustain 73.7mm.
 
 Civic activists feel that the deadline will remain on paper. “Flooding and overflowing drainage are a regular feature during monsoon. Politicians are busy inaugurating road work, but no action is taken to resolve the long-pending problems,” said Vivek Velankar of Sajag Nagrik Manch, a citizens’ group.
 
 Considering that the monsoon is predicted to arrive earlier this year, Velankar said the officials should finish the work on a war footing.
 
 
