GURUGRAM: Independent plot owners in   sectors and other licensed colonies in Gurugram are in a fix over registration of newly-constructed fourth floors in their houses. DTCP, in a meeting chaired by its director general in March this year, restricted the registration of a fourth floor as an independent residential unit, after Huda, in February 2017, had raised the construction permit on private residential plots from a stilt and three floors (15m) to a stilt and four floors.

 
 Since the amendment in the Haryana building code was passed in February 2017, the city saw several plotted house owners in Huda sectors and licensed colonies adding a fourth floor to their houses, most likely in the hope of selling them off as independent floors. The sale of plots in residential sectors also rose, as builders tried to profit from building houses with four floors. Interestingly, despite the restriction issued by DTCP, some plotted house owners illegally got their added floors registered in connivance with tehsil officials.
 
 A senior DTCP official said registration of these newly constructed fourth floors as independent units is against norms. The department is likely to conduct a survey of number of plots and floors in residential sectors, as well as density of population in these, before allowing registration of such floors as independent units. 
 
 “For independent plots, the department is approving building plans with four floors over stilt parking, but only three floors can be developed as independent units. The fourth floor won’t be considered an independent unit,” said the official. According to sources, Huda has put giving permissions for construction of fourth floors on hold for the past few days. “If any such floor has been registered, the department will probe such cases and take action against the concerned tehsildar,” said Gurugram sub-divisional magistrate  .
 
 DTCP director general K M Pandurang said his department has not given permission to develop fourth floors as independent residential units, and as such, registration of such floors is not allowed. “In case the department has registered some such floors, action will be initiated against those involved,” he added. 
 
 
