 has been a part of some popular TV shows like   (1987),   (1999) and Idhar Udhar (1985), but in the past few years, she has been part of just one comedy TV show, Khichdi. Ask her if TV interests her at all and she replies, “That’s a very touchy question.” She clarifies that her reasons for doing only one comedy show, and not any other TV show, are different. “I have done a lot of intense dramas on TV like Zindagi, but I haven’t done TV for a long time now. I chose   because I love watching and doing comedy shows. When I was offered to do Khichdi, I found the script impressive and the only question I had for the writer and producer was, ‘can a person actually be like Hansa?’ She is very child-like and as an actor, it gives me a lot to do because as a person, I am not like that. I think a lot. I am very vocal and opinionated. I have a mind which is very strong and to play  , I have to switch off my mind. I love doing that as that gives me relief,” she says.

  
  The cast of the show Khichdi
 
 
 
 Elaborating on why she has kept herself away from TV shows, Supriya gives an example of the TV serial   (2015), and says, “When the show was offered to me, I found the script and my character very interesting. When we started shooting for the show, within a month, the makers started making changes in the script and the whole show became entirely different from what I thought it would be. I was just lost. I didn’t know what my character was doing and I said that I can’t work like that. When that kind of changes are introduced to scripts, producers say they can’t help it as the channel wants the changes. So you, as an actor, get stuck in such situations. Over the years, I have been glad to do more theatre and films than TV. I recently performed a play in Delhi with Pankaj (Kapur). It is not a dramatic play, but it is a simple and good story. I feel that it is better than doing 1,000 episodes of a TV show, which the makers would keep changing.”
 
  
  
 
 
 Talk to Supriya about her favourite TV shows and she says that whether it is Chitrahaar, Krishi Darshan or Buniyaad, she misses every show from the Doordarshan era, but Karamchand, the detective series featuring Pankaj Kapur, is one show she would want to see again on the small screen. “If there’s one show I would really want to see back on TV, it is Karamchand. I think it was one of the best detective series that came on TV ever. There have been some other series like CID and Mohandas BALLB, which me and Pankaj did together, but no detective drama on TV could match the content quality of Karamchand,” she says, adding that the majority of people, including her, would prefer watching old Doordrahsan shows on TV over some new ones. “That is because that was good content. We had done only 39 episodes of Karamchand, and it is still so strong in our memories. In number terms, there were not too many shows on TV in the past, but all shows that were made in that era really hit you because they were content based. Today, we are not looking at content, we are just going with whatever is coming our way. It’s like, ‘main yahan se kheechta hu tum vahan se kheech lo’. It doesn’t work like that,” Supriya adds. While TV is drifting away from reality, our films are getting closer to real stories, to which the actress adds, “It gives me a lot of hope to see that good and simple stories that are close to reality are drawing the audience to cinema halls. It gives us hope that we will be able to make the kind of movies that we would like to make.”
 
 
 
 Supriya visits Delhi frequently for her plays. The actress says that she has some fond memories of shooting one of her early TV shows, Bargad, here. “I have mostly performed in Delhi. I shot here once for a TV show when I was a young girl. Delhi has been a major part of my life as my father is from Delhi and my aunt, who was also the director of Bal Bhavan, used to stay here. My dadihal is in Delhi and as a child I spent my holidays in Karol Bagh and Paharganj. We used to go to Beas often and take trains from Delhi, so my childhood has a lot of Delhi in it. I love coming here. Such a pretty place it is,” she says.
 
 
  
 
