N Raghavan almost went broke after delivering his first order — supplying components on a job work basis to a company that eventually provided them to the  . "I had to buy all the components in bulk for which I needed a huge amount of capital. But I didn’t have enough money and had to take a loan," he says. Worse still, the maiden supply wasn’t profitable.

 "The first order was a heavy loss for me," he recalls. Raghavan had to borrow from friends and relatives to keep  , his fledgling venture, running. He soon realised that getting orders directly from the ‘Ordnance Factories’ of the   was the only way out to sustain his business.
 
 Amar, which began operations on a rented premises on   in the city with five machines in 1975, managed to win direct orders for supply of ‘pre-heating and cooling systems’ for main battle tanks. But executing the order was no easy task. The system had 400 components with 64 sub-assemblies and all of them had to work perfectly.
 
 The system is used to start the engine of a battle tank in high altitude forward areas such as Jammu and Kashmir and the North-East. "The system heats up the whole battle tank," Raghavan explains. Soon after he earned some profits in its first direct order supplying 100 sets of such systems, the only competitor for him in the business, who was based in Kolkata, withdrew from the race. "Thereafter, the entire orders started coming to us," he says.
 
 Raghavan’s stints in the then Telco (Tata Engineering and Locomotive Company) for a decade from the mid-1950s to mid-1960s and later at city-based textile machinery major LMW ( ) from the mid-1960s to the early 1970s stood him in good stead after he started his business. These stints made him adept at handling highly complicated work that involved precision engineering.
 
 "I picked up my engineering skills in Telco. Kurt Pfleuger, a German, was my boss there. He was a tough taskmaster, but he was also very fair," Raghavan says. "I learnt discipline and work culture from him. Since he was impressed by my work, he recommended me for an advanced training methodology and tool room programme conducted in Germany in 1961," he reminisces. The programme helped him deepen his knowledge in engineering. His elder son   joined the company in 1991 while his younger son Anand followed in 1996. But their entry hasn’t made the 83-year-old Raghavan, who passed out of the Defence Ministry’s Machine Tool Prototype Factory (MTPF) Training School at Ambernath near Mumbai in 1955, hang up his boots. He is a regular at the shop floor of the venture he has nurtured for more than four decades and inspects the components that are being made even now. With the initial orders getting   a strong foothold in the defence components business, it has started making engine oil pumps, air distributors and oil priming pumps used in battle tanks now. "These products were being imported earlier. But since our prices were highly competitive, we won the order," Manoj   says. The components are made for battlefield conditions that are extreme — they have to survive the searing 50 degree Celsius heat of the deserts in Rajasthan as well as minus 40 degree Celsius weather in the  . "It took us five years to develop the DC motor for the pre-heating reduction gear," Anand says. The company uses special aluminum alloy for the components as they weigh less. "There is strict weight control for all the components. They have to pass an array of tests," he says. With the union government announcing ambitious plans for increasing indigenisation in defence manufacturing, Amar is now planning to diversify. "We want to produce a wider range of products. We have the capacity," Raghavan says with a smile.
 
 
