AHMEDABAD: A commercial court has restrained an engineering firm from using technical know-how and confidential information, which was allegedly obtained by its owners from their earlier employer,  .

 In this case, KHS Machinery, which has been operating in the field of bottle wrapping and sealing in collaboration with a German company -   - for more than two decades in India, has sued Rapid Bev Tech Pvt Ltd, Rapid Engineers and their owners. KHS had urged the court to stop Rapid and its owners from using its technology, confidential information and know-how, which according to KHS the engineers had allegedly stolen from the company while being employed with it. They allegedly put the confidential information and technology to use when they launched a company of their own.
 
 According to KHS’s advocate  , after quitting the company, the engineers started their own business and started applying the technological know-how of KHS. The company filed a civil suit and a criminal complaint as well against the new company. 
 
 Police recovered various information material from the engineers’ computers, and sent it to the   (FSL) for analysis. The forensic opinion also placed before the commercial court, which observed that the documents “prima facie establish the defendants (Rapid and others) having been using, rather divulging the confidential information of the plaintiff (KHS)”.
 
 Besides, it was also argued on part of KHS that as per the tripartite agreement, the company’s employees could not have used know-how and technical knowledge for two years after they left the company.
 
 After preliminary hearing, the court had granted ex parte injunction in 2016. But after hearing on the stage of admission, the commercial court has come to a conclusion that as per the tripartite agreement, the former employees would be required to be restrained from using the confidential information, know-how, technical knowledge, customized manufacturing machinery of KHS till the final disposal of the suit. 
 
 While restraining the engineers from using KHS’s trade secret and technological know-how, judge R T   has made it clear that they are free to carry on their profession by utilizing their own skill and information mentally retained by them, or by soliciting them independently.
 
 
