Taking up a new hobby sounds fun, but when it comes to joining a hobby class, a lot of people drop the idea since travelling to a studio or institute is not everyone's cup of tea. However, there are many artists and enthusiasts conducting workshops out of their homes, or out of their housing societies, to be precise. Several of Noida and Greater Noida's residents are utilizing the ample space of their posh condominium's terrace, lawn and club area for running  . And word-of-mouth publicity works best for them since they don’t have to make extra effort to find students.

 
 
 
 Shree Rupa Pal, who organizes 'Dancercise' at  , says, "I have been organizing my classes for the past three years. I moved to   in Noida over a year ago and started conducting classes at my house. It soon gained popularity and the number of students increased. That's when I shifted my class to the club area in our society."
 
 
 
  
    utilises the club area at Amrapali Princely Estate in Sector 76 for her dance-fitness class
 
 
 Pal adds, "The advantage about these huge condominiums is that you don’t have to make any effort to promote anything. There are hundreds of families living in each society, and they will obviously get to know about any activity happening in the vicinity. And there's ample space too!"
 
 
 Taking about her class, she says, "This exercise form is a mix of Zumba, pilates, facial yoga, power yoga etc. I got a great response from the residents of housing societies. I started with four students and now I have got over 80."
 
 
  
  
 
 Sujata Bhattacharya, who is a student at Pal’s class, adds, "Nowadays, no one has the time to pursue a hobby, so it really helps if you can learn something new at a class just next-door. I just have to go the club area from my flat to attend the class, and get fit in the most fun way."
 
 
 Shwetank Singh, who conducts photography workshops out of the terrace of his housing society, Aditya Urban Casa, says, "It's convenient for me to teach out of my housing society. While I take theory lessons at home, we usually move to the terrace of my building for the practical. I have put up a notice about my photography workshops at the reception of my society and near the lift, so I don’t even need to advertise about my classes. Those who are interested just ring my doorbell and get themselves enrolled. Also, I don't have to spend money on hiring a studio; I can do it within the comfort of my society."
 
 
  
  Shwetank Singh conducts photography workshops out of the terrace of his housing society in Sector 78
 
  
  
 
 
 
  lives in   and teaches paper quilling at her home. "I teach paper quilling, paper mache art, tanjore, leaf painting etc. It’s been three years since I started this, and a lot of kids from my colony come to learn the artform. The best part of conducting classes out of housing societies is that you don’t have to spend any money in promoting anything - people get to know about my class through word-of-mouth."
 
 
  
  Mridula Gupta teaches paper quilling out of her home in Eldeco Green Meadows in Sector Pi in Greater Noida
 
 Gita Chounal, 15, who lives in Eldeco Green Meadows says, "Mridula aunty is my mom's friend. I had once gone to her house where I saw these beautiful paper art and paintings. So I decided to join her class. After that, two of my friends also joined her classes as it’s quite convenient for us to just come down to her flat from our home."
 
 Meena Vohra, a resident of Sector 21, teaches pottery out of her building's terrace. "I have my studio on my terrace where people from all age groups come to learn pottery. Working from home is the best as you can manage home and pursue your interest, too. I get students from the age of 10 years till even 75. It’s an informal setting, so people don't have second thoughts about taking up a new hobby."
 
 
  
    teaches pottery at the terrace of her building in Sector 21 
 
  
  
 
 
