BENGALURU: Poor participation marked the public meet organized by BBMP on Friday to discuss glitches in the voters’ list ahead of the 2018 assembly polls.

 With only five members of the public in attendance, the meeting with electoral roll observer Rajendra Kumar Kataria, special commissioner (election) Manoj Kumar Meena and Dr Natesh GB, assistant commissioner (election), didn’t last more than 15 minutes. 
 
 The public representatives included PG Bhat, an activist closely following the voters’ rights, two others representing Bangalore Apartments’ Federation ( ) and two political party workers.
 
 Though the public participation was meagre, several crucial issues were raised at the meeting.   Narasimhan from BAF said many booth-level officers whose names are mentioned on the chief election officer’s website are hardly helpful. “When we call them, they say they are not the BLOs. Besides, there is no mechanism to track applications submitted online. When we contact BBMP, we get the standard answer: ‘it’s being processed’,” he said.
 
 According to Srikanth, citizens with new addresses (who have moved from one constituency to another) seeking inclusion of their names in the voters’ list are facing bureaucratic red tape.
 
 He pointed out that as per directions of   (ECI), a person filing Form 6 (application for inclusion of name in the list) needn’t file a separate Form 7 (application for deletion of name for voter who has shifted from one constituency to another). Form 6 itself has a provision for the applicant to declare where he/she has moved and seek deletion of name from the earlier constituency.
 
 “We have clear communication on this. It’s the officers concerned who should delete the name from the previous constituency and add it to the one where the applicant is currently living. But while submitting Form 6 applications, BBMP officers demand that people apply for deletion applications as well. They even ask citizens to get acknowledgements for the same,” claimed Srikanth.
 
 Bhat said dead voters continue to be a problem despite BBMP claiming that their names have been deleted. “There are cases of more than one voter having the same EPIC number. Names of dead voters and those who have relocated from the addresses mentioned have not been removed,” he said.
 
 According to Bhat, the draft voters’ list on the chief electoral officer’s website comprises scanned PDF images and is not a PDF document, making the search difficult for voters.
 
 The participants blamed the Palike for holding the meeting at a short notice, which led to the poor turnout. However, the meeting hall was crowded as many BBMP officers took part. Two Congress members said many voters’ names had been moved from one ward to another. 
 
 Kataria said the issues will be looked into. “No citizen had taken part in the previous public meet. This time too, the attendance was low,” he said.
 
 
 
