MOHALI: The farmers and   ( ) are yet to reach any consensus over allotment of plots under the land pooling scheme in Eco City-III. 

 The meeting held this week saw no consensus also owing to the fact that the two groups of farmers themselves had divided opinions over the issue of clubbing of plots. While one farmer group, Eco City Kisan Sangarsh Committee, led by president Mohan Lal and general secretary Ajit Singh, were of the view that the farmers being allotted two or more plots must be clubbed together, the other group led by   and others wanted allotment of separate plots by Gmada.
 
 According to Gmada's policy, farmers must opt for allotment of separate plots and after being allotted the plots can, under their own capacity, interchange the plots as per their desire and get it regsistered with Gmada. Eco City Kisan Sangarsh Committee was of the view that following Gmada's scheme, farmers will have to pay registration fee, which will be a further loss to them. Mohan Lal said, "We had written to Gmada to club the plot sites of those farmers eligible to get two or more plots. But they did not agree to our proposal. They proposed that we must get the plots exchanged after allotment for which farmers will again have to shell out hefty amount to get the plots transferred. The allotment has already been delayed by years and we have already lost money."
 
 The Gmada estate officer (housing) Puja Syal Grewal said, "The two farmer groups had difference of opinions. Similar to the view of one of the two, we also suggested that the farmers must opt for allotment of separate plots instead of clubbed ones and after allotment exchange the plots according to their wish. We were to conduct draw of lots for 376 farmers under land pooling scheme last week." 
 
 In 2013, Department of   had formulated land pooling policy for acquisition of land for development of new projects. As per the policy, on acquisition of one acre of land, a land owner is entitled for a residential plot measuring 1000 square yards and a SCO of 121 square yards.
 
 
