NAGPUR: Indian men registered their second successive 5-0 victory to enter the quarterfinals of the   at Alor Setar, Kedah in Malaysia on Wednesday.

 The Indian women's team had a rest day after their sensational 3-2 win over Hong Kong China on Tuesday.
 
 For the second day running, India did not lose a single game as they made light work of minnows Maldives in their second Group D league outing. Captain of the side,  , provided a flying start by hammering Hussein Zayan Shaheed 21-5, 21-6 in just 19 minutes. The rest of the two singles players - B   and   - also cruised on their way to wins over their respective rivals. 
 
 The longest match of the day was of 20 minutes in which Satwiksairaj Rankireddy and   defeated Hussein Zayan Shaheed and Hassan Afsheem Shaheem 21-8, 21-8. The last match of the tie - second doubles - was the shortest one with world No. 44 MR Arjun and Shlok Ramchandran dismissing the hapless Maldives pair in just 13 minutes.
 
 On Thursday, both the men's and women's teams will have to play tough matches. While Indian eves will take on star-studded Japan in the Group W outing, men's side will have to face formidable Indonesia in the Group D's third and last league match. 
 
 Indian team's specialist doubles coach Kim Tan Her was pretty satisfied with the result and termed it as good warm-up for next round of matches.
 
 "Today's game was quite easy. Tomorrow (Thursday) we are going to play Indonesia to decide the pool topper. It is going to be hard match for us but our players will do their best and try to surprise them. Similarly, the women's team will have their toughest league match against Japan. Win or lose, we are still in quarterfinals," said the experienced Malaysian.
 
 
 
 
 
  India bt Maldives 5-0 (Kidambi Srikanth bt Hussein Zayan Shaheed 21-5, 21-6; B Sai Praneeth bt Ahmed Nibal 21-10, 21-4; Sameer Verma bt   21-5, 21-1; Satwiksairaj Rankireddy-Chirag Shetty bt Hussein Zayan Shaheed-Hassan Afsheem Shaheem 21-8, 21-8; MR Arjun-Shlok Ramchandran bt Mohamed Arsalaan Ali-Ahmed Nibal 21-2, 21-5.
 
