PATNA: Work on installation of 20 lakh prepaid smart electricity meters in urban areas of the state, including  , Ara, Aurangabad and  , is set to commence from September.

 These 20 lakh meters will cover both high tension and low tension power consumers. A senior energy department official said installation of smart meters would ensure convenience of consumers and control power thefts. 
 
 “The state energy department has initiated bidding process in association with   for procurement of 20 lakh smart prepaid meters for the state. The installation work will start in September. In the first phase, around 20 lakh meters will be installed in all the urban areas of the state,” R Lakshmanan, managing director of   said.
 
 He added the total cost of the project was estimated at Rs 800 crore. “The expenses will be borne by the state government as well as the Centre. The target for completion of installation work in the first phase is February 2020. As many as 6,000 smart prepaid electricity meters have already been installed in government establishments and residences. Besides, around 10,000 smart electricity meters have been installed in   and Hajipur under a pilot project. However, the smart meters installed in Gaya and Hajipur are older versions in terms of technology,” Lakshmanan said.
 
 Explaining the functioning of smart meters, Lakshmanan said, “Prepaid meters can be recharged in advance with a sum as small as Rs 50. The consumer can recharge their meters online through mobile phones at any given point of time. However, for those who are not comfortable with online method, counters will be available in the offices of energy department for recharging their smart meters beforehand.”
 
 “A smart meter records consumption of electric energy in intervals of one hour or less and communicates this data to the utility company. This allows utility companies to introduce price differentiation based on the season and the time of day. This encourages consumers to change their energy consumption pattern.”
 
 
