GURUGRAM: The special   report on funds collected by the   from the residents of   in Sector 54 has revealed gross financial irregularities that go up to Rs 3.5 crore.

  The audit report of the department of town and country planning (DTCP) says that the interest-free maintenance security ( ) amount was collected by the coloniser and not by the maintenance agency, and was spent for personal use, instead of providing value-added services within the society.
 
 The chartered accountant appointed to prepare the audit, P K  , has said in his report that the coloniser collected Rs 3.5 crore from allotees in the name of maintenance and security. The report says that instead of the separate maintenance firm, Suncity Maintenance, the amount was collected by the coloniser, Suncity Projects. 
 
 Also, as per norms, it should have been kept in fixed deposits, and the interest earned utilized to create value-added services in the colony. Instead, the coloniser spent the amount for personal use. Thus, not only were norms not followed, the amount collected did not earn interest either. The coloniser did not share details of where the IFMS amount was kept with the auditors.
 
 The auditor also said that the amount collected by Suncity Maintenance Private Limited against common area maintenance (CAM) charges, was done illegally. The expenditure incurred by the company was not bifurcated under heads of IFMS and CAM, making it difficult to comment on genuineness of the CAM bills raised by the company.
 
 As per Haryana Development and Regulation of Urban Areas Act, the coloniser after procuring completion certificate for a project, must carry out free-of-cost maintenance for five years, before handing over a colony to the municipal corporation. Till the time the coloniser gets completion certificate for a project, all mandatory services are its responsibility. In Suncity’s case, the coloniser had applied for completion certificate in December 2016, but is yet to get it.
 
 TOI tried to reach out to the developer, but it didn’t elicit any response. 
 
 The DTCP director T L Satyaprakash said that he has submitted the audit report, prepared by an independent CA, to the department, and that it is being studied. The department will take action based on the report as per the Act, he added.
 
 In July last year, Suncity Residents Welfare Association (SRWA) had alleged that the developer had suddenly stopped providing value-added services, while continuing to levy CAM charges. Based on their complaint, the district town planner had directed DTCP to have an external auditor carry out an audit of CAM charges.
 
 
