In the latest episode of  , police inspector is seen putting a lock on a bank locker, which has   and Pooja’s names. At the breakfast table, Mr Hooda complains of Aditya’s behaviour. Just then the latter comes and says he is going to resume his duties as a pilot. Arjun, his brother, tries to stop him and tells him he won’t be allowed to fly in such a state.   tells him he is okay and leaves. Arjun goes back to Mr Hooda and says, this is how they should live and behave as if nothing happened. Mr Hooda tells his wife that it is the calm before the storm, which is going to ruin all of them.

 Aditya goes to his office and is informed that he would have to go through a stress test, only then he would be able to fly. Elsewhere,   is allowed to enter Yash’s home by his mom. Yash’s lawyer arrives and tells them that since Yash had made no will, his property and business would go to his wife. They are also informed that he was in debt, which leaves Zoya shocked. She tells them that she wasn’t aware of this at all. Yash’s sister, Mahi, blames Zoya again for her brother’s death. She also tells the lawyer to transfer the property in her name. Zoya calls her mother, telling her how she wasn’t aware of Yash’s financial status.
 
  
 Zoya’s father joins her in Mumbai where she is being forced to sign the property papers in Mahi’s name. He stops her from doing anything and asks the lawyer to send the papers to their legal team. Mahi continues to insult Zoya even after her mother asks her to stop. Zoya and her father leave to return to Mussoorie.
 
 Meanwhile, at the airport, Yash gives the stress test and is informed that he has cleared it. Zoya is also seen at the same airport. Suddenly her ring drops and she runs to chase it. Her path crosses Yash’s again. The latter mocks her for leading a protective life. He tells her she is running away from her in-laws and has no strength to stand for her rights. Zoya, in turn, tells him that she has accepted the situation, he has not. Everytime he vents out his anger at her, it instead indicates of his frustration.
  
 The scene shifts. Zoya sits in the plane which is being flown by Aditya. She asks god for some sign and is unsure if she should return to the hills. Aditya starts the plane but recalls everything Zoya said to him. He doesn’t take off and the flight is cancelled due to a technical glitch.
 
 
