Nashik: The chairperson of state food commission Arun Deshpande, who was on tour of Nashik, was upset with the absence of competent authority officials of various government bodies that deal with the consumers directly for a meeting called on Thursday. 

 He has ordered the District Supply Office (DSO) to ensure they follow discipline. Desphande, on Thursday, conducted a workshop for individuals and organisations, working in the interest of consumers across all departments and heard their complaints.
 
 “Many government offices have not sent their competent authorities for the meeting. We have therefore asked the DSO to take note of the same and ensure that all these officers are present for consumer-related meetings in the future,” Deshpande said.
 
 He also exhorted the activists and organisations to the put their foot down in case the competent authorities of the said department were not present at the consumer meetings hence forth.
 
 “The consumers and organisations or individuals who are working for rights of consumers should stress for the presence of competent officers during the meeting. In case where this is not happening, the organisations and activists can ask the officer in the chair to push the officer out of the meeting. After first two meetings, the consumers will see the difference,” Deshpande said.
 
 Deshpande also urged the consumers to fight for their rights. “Consumers should be vibrant and willing to register complaints. Now there are facilities like online and toll free numbers made available and they are monitored. These centres should be flooded by complaints. Unless this happens they will be taken for granted by the market forces," Deshpande said.
 
 The chairperson of the food commission has asked the DSO to complete the verification process of the Annapurna cards at the earliest.
 
 “Currently, the beneficiaries holding the Annapurna card under the public distribution system (PDS) get 35 kg of food grains per head. Since there are multiple cards in some houses, a house-to-house search is being carried out to figure out the presence of multiple cards in the houses to bring to notice such cases and carry out the legal process of removing the names. The chairperson commission has stressed for faster achievement of the task,” DSO Nashik Shrinivas Arjun said. 
 
 
