GOLD COAST: Pakistan Olympic Association president Lt Gen (retd) Syed Arif Hasan came down from the VIP stand to congratulate coach   after the new-look Greens snatched a thrilling 2-2 draw against India, scoring a controversial equalizer in the dying seconds of the match, here on Saturday.

 
 Such was the importance of the draw for Pakistan hockey, that coach Oltmans said “the last-second draw” would be big morale booster for the side in the remaining Pool B matches. The drama unfolded — after a brief scuffle in the third quarter — in the dying seconds of the match when the video referee gave back-to-back controversial verdicts in Pakistan’s favour.
 
 
 
 The packed stands, mostly locals, followed by a sizeable number of Indians and a smattering of Pakistanis, got to watch a brilliant climax as Ali Mubashar sounded the board from Pakistan’s eighth penalty corner, which they won in a referral, after the hooter went off.
 
 First the referee upheld Pak’s claim for a penalty corner that was hardly backed by any video evidence. As the clock ticked away, Mubashar took aim at the post but failed to convert with his dragflick. Indian goalkeeper Sreejesh leaped up in joy but the celebration was short-lived as Pakistan appealed for another penalty corner before the hooter went off.
 
 The video referee upheld that claim too, this time Gurinder was pulled up for obstruction. Gifted a second chance on a platter, Ali came up with a thundering drive that beat Sreejesh hands down.
 
 The Indians, who lost the plot in the second half, showed their best form in the first 30 minutes as they attacked through the flanks and looked compact in the defence. Though it was Pakistan who made the first attacking move from the left, India foiled it fast and launched a quick counter which Amit Rohidas hit straight down the ‘keeper’s throat.
 
 With India dictating terms, senior pro SV Sunil, who played his heart out, helped his team open the account in the 13th minute. Cutting in through the right, Sunil found an unmarked   with a perfect diagonal and the youngster slotted it in past ‘keeper Imran Butt.
 
 The start of the second session saw India trying to extend their dominance even as Pakistan, who looked rusty to begin with, tried to counter the Indian forwards led by pacy Mandep Singh.
 
 The Indians then doubled the lead in the 20th minute when   converted their third PC. Pakistan fought back but they failed to convert two penalty corners in the 26th minute.
 
 RESULT (POOL B): India 2 (Dilpreet 13, Harmanpreet 20) drew with Pakistan 2 (Mohd Irfan Jr 39, Ali Mubashar 60+).
 
 
