In the latest episode of  ,Dadi gives Naira fruits to eat. Aryan(Shubham) asks Dadi to find out about Suhana's horoscope and talk to her family.

 Naira is helping Akhilesh with some documents when she finds Kartik's diary with the doctor's numbers on it. We see Kartik, who is at the doctor's clinic talking to somebody about fertility problems. He tells them that both men and women face problems and it was not always the wife's fault.
 
 Kartik comes home from the office. Naira asks him about the tests he took for which he went to the clinic. He says he didn't want to worry Naira about it.
 
 The Singhanias offer Kirti all sorts of helpful books for the baby. Kirti gets overwhelmed.   says that it is a happy time for the family and their duties will soon multiply. Kirti thanks them for treating her like a daughter and not a daughter-in-law.
 
 Dadi makes ladoos for Naira all by herself. Manish says that Dadi hadn't cooked for a long while and laughs. Dadi adds that Guruji asked her to pamper Naira and give her nutritious food. Naira gets shocked hearing this.
 
 Dadi matches Shubham and Suhana's horoscope and finds no fault. The test reports come back. Kartik tells Naira that she had a blockage for which she had to undergo a surgery. Naira worries. Kartik tells her not to lose hope.
 
 Kirti tells Naksh about the books and asks him to read as well. Naksh gets happy and promises to always take care of Kirti and the baby. Devyaani comes in and gives Kirti something to drink. Naksh recalls the time when he saw Dadi throw away the drink given to Kirti by his Badi ma. 
 
 After learning about their horoscopes matching, Aryan rejoices and hugs his mother Suwarna. Manish, who is also there, looks at Kartik's dull face and asks him what was wrong. Kartik tells them about the surgery for which Dadi protests and says she won't allow. Suwarna says that they should support Naira in every possible way while Kartik thinks of other possibilities to avoid surgery.
 
 The next morning, Naira and her family meet with the doctor. Naira tells them not to worry for her as she will be alright. Kartik discusses alternative options.
 
