Tirunelveli: In a daring incident, 12 inmates escaped from the home for children in conflict with law in   late on Tuesday night after assaulting the warden and a police constable who was on duty. Police sources said that five of them had been nabbed and that search was on for the remaining seven. Police across the state have been alerted about the incident.

 Among the fugitives were those involved in grave offences including murder. One of the boys had surrendered before a Virudhunagar court last month in connection with the murder of a jeweller and while another from Tuticorin was arrested for the rape, murder and burning the body of a six-year-old girl a couple of weeks ago.
 
 Police sources said that the inmates had planned and executed the escape, adding that cases had been filed against them under 12 sections of IPC and the Tamil Nadu Public Property (Prevention of Damages and Loss) Act (TNPPDL). They included attempt to murder the uniformed services personnel at the home. 
 
 An official at the home said that 32 inmates aged up to 18 years were staying in two separate dormitories based on their age group. The boys who escaped were among 17 lodged in one of the dormitories. It is learnt that around 11 pm on Tuesday, one of the boys had complained of acute stomach pain following which two others in the gang alerted warden Shanmugaraj. The official said that the boy had apparently feigned the illness to deceive the warden and secure the keys he kept. 
 
 As he rushed to attend to the boy, a group of four others attacked him first while six more joined the action soon. The boys then grabbed the keys from him and assaulted an armed reserve policeman,  , who was there on duty. They attacked them with everything they got in hand, leaving the duo bleeding.
 
 “While 12 boys from the dormitory escaped, five others stayed back. One of the boys rode the bike of a staff member. The boys who escaped were from Tirunelveli, Tuticorin and Kanyakumari districts,” an official told TOI adding that the CCTV cameras had recorded some of the events.
 
 Police sources feared that the boys who were at large could have travelled far away too as the Dr MGR bus stand – the integrated mofussil bus stand of the city – was located just opposite to the home. Tirunelveli city police commissioner Kapil Kumar Saratkar and deputy commissioner for law and order G Suguna Singh visited the home and conducted preliminary inquiries.
 
 The badly-injured warden as well as the policeman who suffered multiple injuries, including on the head, were admitted to the   and Hospital. However, they were said to be out of danger. 
 
 Melapalayam police booked the boys under sections 147 (punishment for rioting), 148 (rioting armed with deadly weapons), 342 (punishment for wrongful confinement), 294(B) (use of abusive language), 323 (punishment for voluntarily causing hurt), 324 (voluntarily causing hurt with dangerous weapons or means), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharging his duty), 307 (attempt to murder), 506(ii) (threat to life), 379 (punishment for theft) and 224 (resistance or obstruction by a person to his lawful apprehension) of the Indian Penal Code and section 3 of TNPPDL Act.
 
 
