BHOPAL: Security has been tightened in the city in wake of the ‘Bharat Bandh’ against   on Tuesday.

 Collector Sudam Khade declared that prohibitory order under Section 144 will be in force in the city on Tuesday. But, schools, colleges and all government institutions will remain open. Around 6000 policemen including district police, RAF, quick response force, special armed force (SAF), STF and others will be deployed in the city since 6am.
 
 Police conducted flag marches in North and South Zones of the city. Divisional commissioner Ajatshatru Shrivastavaand senior police and administrative officers reviewed security arrangements.
 
 Shrivastava said that no organisation has come forward in support of the bandh or sought permission to hold rally.
 
 IG-Bhopal Jaideep Prasad said that security has been beefed across the city. A special monitoring cell has been formed to keep a tab on various social media platforms including Facebook, WhatsApp, Twitter and others, so that immediate action can be taken if anyone spreads rumours or objectionable message on social media. He also urged citizens not forward or circulate any hate content on social media. He said the collector has banned circulation of objectionable content.
 
 Senior police officers will also patrol all throug the day. The newly passed out batch of DSP and SI have also been deployed in the city, the IG said.
 
 Collector Khade issued a warning to government employees not to take part in the protest. Citing disciplinary code, he said employees are not supposed to take part in political, religious or other protests.
 
 The order said that if any government employee is found participating in protest, it will be considered as violation of Madhya Pradesh Civil Services Act and unauthorized absence of employees will be considered as break-in-service.
 
 DIG Dharmendra Choudhary said that 2-4 extra patrolling vehicles have been deployed in all police stations across the city amid rumours of bandh. The patrolling vehicle will be equipped with camera to record any anti-social incident and the anti-socials would not be spared.
 
