MUMBAI: In an interim relief for meat sellers from  , the Bombay high court on Tuesday stayed notices suspending their licences on suspicion that they sold beef. The court has directed that no penal action shall be taken against them. “Ensure that they are allowed to open the shops today,’’ said a bench of Justice Abhay   and Justice Pradeep Deshmukh.

 The court heard petitions by the owners of 12 shops challenging the showcause-and-suspension notices issued to them on December 16, 2017, by the   (VVMC). On December 15, 2017, the police had seized 550 kg of “beef” from Wagah Mohalla in the vicinity of these shops. Since the slaughter and sale of beef in the state is banned, notices were issued to the meat sellers and their licences were suspended. 
 
 On January 22, the assistant municipal commissioner wrote to the police, stating that despite suspension of licences, these shops were continuing business and the police must register offences against them.
 
 
  
  
 
 The petitioners denied that they were connected with the illegal sale of beef. Their advocate   said, “We have no role in it. We are not named as accused in that offence.’’ Senior advocate  , representing the VVMC, said licence conditions were violated and therefore the municipal commissioner exercised his powers under the Maharashtra Municipal Corporations Act.
 
 The judges questioned on what basis the   had suspended their licences. “Tell us right now on what basis you go and suspend licences? Your notice has no allegation that they were selling beef. It does not record breach of conditions, ’’ said Justice Oka. The judges also asked if “mere suspicion” is a valid ground to suspend licences when there was no apparent breach of licence conditions. “Is it a common practice to go about suspending licences even where there is no apparent breach of terms and conditions?” asked Justice Oka.
 
 In their order, the judges said there is no allegation that the beef seized belonged to the petitioners, and it is not alleged that the petitioners were found to be selling beef. The judges added it was not alleged that there was a breach of licence conditions. The petitioners on December 19, 2017 had written to VVMC that they were not concerned with the sale of beef and have never sold it in their respective shops and have always abided by the licence conditions, the judges said. They noted that the petitioners had also produced receipts for their purchases from the slaughterhouse in Thane.
 
 “We find the impugned notice is ex-facie illegal,’’ said the judges, and posted the matter for final disposal on March 14. They also directed: “As interim relief, we stay the operation of notices of December 16, 2017. The penal law cannot be set in motion on the basis of the notices.”
 
 
