KOLKATA: Mathematics questions were perceived to be tough and there were talks of English re-test after a rumoured paper leak but the results, which were announced on Tuesday, left most CBSE Class X students smiling in the city. They fared exceptionally well in the two papers with many scoring a perfect 100 in maths and in the high nineties in English.

 
 At Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan, the highest score in English was 98 while several scored 100 in maths. “I believe students were needlessly worrying since the maths paper wasn’t as tough as some had claimed. The confusion over English had nothing to do with the standard of questions, so grades couldn’t have been affected,” said school principal Rekha Vysya.
 
 DPS   maths teacher Chandan Chatterjee agreed. He had expected his students to do well and they have lived up to his expectation. “Rather than the questions being tough, what caught students on the wrong foot was the size of the syllabus. With the compulsory board exams being replaced with school exams that split the class IX and X courses, students were left grappling with a huge syllabus this time. But they fared very well. As many as 130 students from our school scored above 90% in maths,” said Chatterjee.
 
 Birla High School principal Loveleen Saigal admitted to being worried over the two papers. “But the scores show that students had it easy. At least three of our students have got 100 in maths while the English scores, too, have been very high,” she said.
 
 Laksmipat Singhania Academy maths teacher   said the paper had just a couple of questions that tested students. The rest, he felt, were pretty average that couldn’t have left students in trouble. “Apart from those two, the rest were sitters. The general standard of the paper was perfect for a board exam. The students’ performance has proved it,” he said.
 
 Chakrabarty added that parents had overlooked the fact that their wards worked hard and improved considerably during the last two months. “They had under-estimated their children. It was wrong on their part to go by the pre-board exam performance,” he said.
 
 The English grades, too, left schools happy. “Students have done better than some had expected. Along with science and social sciences, English scores have been satisfactorily high,” said Vysya. According to Birla High director   Nain, English scores couldn’t have been better. “There were some fears following a question paper leak. But students didn’t have to worry, for the paper had been a good one,” said Nain. At  , the highest marks scored in English is 97.
 
 Kendriya Vidyalaya schools in the region, however, fared average in the two subjects which left them with a 2% slide in pass percentage. Officiating deputy director of the Kendriya Vidyalaya regional office S   said an altered question pattern left their students at a disadvantage for the two papers. “Poor performance in these subjects have affected our results,” said Bose.
 
