Know all about   (TN TET) examination, syllabus, exam pattern, eligibility, selection process, notification & preparation tips.

 The Tamil Nadu Teacher Eligibility Test (TN TET) examination is conducted every year by Tamil Nadu Teachers Recruitment Board (TRC) to recruit teachers for all the govt run and private schools in the state. 
 
 All the candidates who have B.Ed. certificate and want to make a career in teaching field in the state can apply for the TN TET examination. The   examination is conducted in an online mode. 
 
 
 
 
 The Tamil Nadu Teachers Recruitment Board (TRC) releases the notification regarding the examination on its officially website or in newspapers. The candidates are advised to keep an eye on the official website of the Tamil Nadu Teachers Recruitment Board (TRC)'s to check the update regarding Tamil Nadu Teacher Eligibility Test (TET). The same will be uploaded here as well. 
 
 
 
 
 The Tamil Nadu TET Applications can be filled online through the official website of Tamil Nadu Teachers Recruitment Board (TRC). The information regarding the release of the online application form links will be updated here once the official notification is out.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 * A candidate should have B.Ed, Nursery Teacher Training of 2 years BTC in Urdu and BTC.
 
 * A candidate should have passed 12th class diploma in teacher education/ Elementary Education/B.Sc/B.A/B/Litt in Maths, Physics, Botany, Chemistry, English, Geography, History or any similar degree from any recognised University.
 
 
 
 
 * A candidate should must have done graduation with at least 45 percent and should possess 2-year diploma in Education or B.ed with 50% Marks.
 
 * Candidates who are appearing for D.E.Ed/B.Ed degree is also eligible to apply.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Child-Development and Pedagogy - 30 questions - 30 marks
 Language I - 30 questions - 30 marks
 Language II - 30 questions - 30 marks
 Environmental Studies - 30 questions - 30 marks
 Mathematics - 30 questions - 30 marks
 
 
 
 
 Child Development and Pedagogy + Language I + Language II - 30 questions - 30 marks
 For Mathematics / Science Teacher - 60 questions - 60 marks
 For Social-Science Teacher - 60 questions - 60 marks
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 English: Competency, Mode of Transaction, Content, Evaluation, Speaking, Reading, Writing, Vocabulary, Language Functions.
 
 Child Development and Pedagogy: Study of Children’s Profile (Physical, Cognitive), Child’s Social and Emotional Profile, Physical and Intellectual Development, Social and Emotional Development for 6 to 10 years of Age Group, Moral Development in Child, Learning, Types & Levels of Learning, Concepts & Constructs, Factors Contributing to Learning, Learning and Knowledge.
 
 Mathematics: Numbers, Shapes & Figures, Measurements, Data Study, Patterns, Fractional Numbers
 
 Environmental Studies: Animals & Plants, Birds, Day & Night, Small Creatures around the Children, Air, Water, My Body, Food, Man, Matter & Materials, Keeping Healthy and Clean, Science in Everyday, Work, Travelogue, Soil, Tamil (Compulsory Language I)- basics of this language is asked just to test the knowledge of basics of this language.
 
 
 
 
 Child Development and Pedagogy Syllabus: Human Growth and Development, Nature of Educational Psychology, Social, Emotional and Moral Development, Cognitive Development, Intelligence & Creativity, Learning, Personality and Assessment, Motivation and Group Dynamics, Guidance and Counselling, Mental Health and Hygiene.
 
 English Syllabus: Listening Instructions, Identification of Text, Reading, Reciting, Appropriate Greetings For Various Occasions, Passage Information Questions, Puzzles & Riddles, Skimming, Scanning, Journal Writing, Letter Writing, Story Formation, Mapping and Summarizing of Content, Spellings, Vocabulary.
 
 Maths & Science Syllabus: Measurements, Number System, Life Mathematics, Algebra, Data Handling, Geometry, Real Numbers, Practical Geometry, Graphs, Health & Hygiene, World of Plants, Life Processes, World of Animals, Matter, Environmental Science, Chemical Changes and Formulation, Matter and Measurement, Exploring the World, Exploring Phenomena, Force and Movement, Applied Biology, My Body, Respiration, Ecology, Exploring Energy, Atomic Structure, Elements & Compounds
 
 
 
 
 The notification regarding the release of admit card of the TN TET will be updated here.
 
 
 
 
 The TN TET results notification will be released by the Tamil Nadu Teachers Recruitment Board on its official website on the exams are over. The information regarding release of results will be updated here. 
 
