RANCHI:   on Sunday approached the Election Commission of India seeking action against   and a few of the government officials alleging misuse of government machinery in Silli and   ahead of the bypolls in the two Assembly constituencies. 

 In his letter to the commission on sunday, JMM central general secretary   drew its attention to the meetings being convened in Silli by the district coordinator of Jharkhand State Livelihood Promotion S Society (JSLPS), Shanti Mardi. 
 
 Bhattacharya said that the government agency was campaigning in favour of AJSU-P candidate for Silli seat, Sudesh Mahto. 
 
 "Mardi is inviting the AJSU-P candidate to attend the meetings of sakhi mandal where he is distributing sewing machines, mat, saree, cash, mobile phones and other stuff to the women members of the committee and encouraging them to vote in favour of AJSU-P," he said. 
 
 Bhattacharya said that Mardi has been working on the post for more than six years and all through she has worked as an AJSU-P cadre. 
 
 The JMM in its letter to   said that as per provisions, JSLPS coordinators in districts are transferred and posted after certain period but in case of Mardi, she has never been transferred because of her "close association AJSU-P". 
 
 "We would like the commission to conduct an independent probe into the activities of Mardi and suspend her with immediate effect to ensure free and fair polls in SIlli," the letter read.
 
 JMM accused the chief minister Raghubar Das of violating the model code of conduct by making populist announcements while addressing election rallies in Gomia. 
 
 Bhattacharya further said that the chief minister addressed a series of public meeting in Gomia on Saturday and Sunday and promised uninterrupted power supply, broadening of connecting roads and providing employment opportunities to the youngsters. 
 
 Bhattacharya said that administrative officials tried to prevent supporters of JMM candidate Babita Devi from attending her rally. 
 
 "In the name of election observers the people were harassed and directed not to vote against BJP candidate, which is violation of model code and aims are disturbing general law and order," he said. 
 
 
