KOLKATA: Morning and evening walkers at Dhakuria  , take heart. With the   police station being operational from this month, cops are doing the rounds of the Lake, ensuring security to visitors, especially the elderly.

 Currently, 15 men in uniform patrol the Lake in two shifts, one from 6 to around 10 in the morning and then again, from 4pm to 10pm, protecting visitors from snatchers, thieves and even conmen. The manpower would be increased to at least 25 a shift in the next two months, hinted a top   officer. The step, he said, would make it one of the most protected spots in the city.
 
 The decision to deploy cops at the Lake was taken after officers of the new Rabindra Sarobar police station met several stakeholders. “We are being told that the erstwhile Lake police, which had the jurisdiction of the Lake, also deployed 15 personnel. Since this is now a full-fledged police station, the visitors expect better protection. We also found out that we needed to in crease manpower on the ground,” said an officer.
 
 
  
 The police said chief minister   herself wanted a police station to protect morning and evening walkers back in 2016. The area under Lake police station is spread across 8 sqkm. Lalbazar said of this, 7,77,000sq m constituted the Lake and its surroundings. In comparison, the Posta police station has the jurisdiction of merely 1sqkm area.
 
 “Our personnel patrol the area in golf carts batteryoperated vehicles. We have a team of officers, led by three assistant sub-inspectors. We are now deploying home guards, too, for the job and as more men in uniform get assigned to the police station, we will increase the presence of middle-level officers,” said an officer. He added that they expected more manpower in April-May when several new constables were likely to join. “We expect to break up the Lake into three sectors and a particular office will be made accountable for each one,” he said.
 
 Officers, who met the youths frequenting the Lake, pointed out they would slap charges against peeping Toms. According to them, such “disturbing elements would be slapped with a look case (section 68 of Calcutta Police Act)”. In case amyone was found taking photos or videos of couples, more stringent action might be taken.
 
