AHMEDABAD: An employee of company that manufactures wellness and healthcare products lost his job because of a post he made on social media expressing anger at the incidents of   at Kathua,   and Surat.

 
 The post, which many objected to, had an image a woman’s body along with India’s map and bore the line: ‘Country bleeds in rape culture, As if anyone cares’. Soon after he posted this, he was trolled for the post and was eventually sacked by his employer.
 
 Riyaz Pathan, a regional manager in Ahmedabad with  , on April 21 posted the content described above with text speaking against rape. The text read, “When a minor is raped and someone comes in support of the rapist, then it is not only rape on the girl but also on the entire country.”
 
 On April 27, Pathan received his termination letter, which reads: “On April 21, 2018, at around 9.00am you put up a poster with the name of the company “Himalaya” and a photograph with comments made below as under on Facebook… This was put up on your Facebook account which spread like wildfire on social media. Such was the repercussion of your post that there were innumerable unpleasant and objectionable comments posted against the company, in response to the post you had put on Facebook.”
 
 The letter said Pathan removed the post after company officials intervened, but the damage to the company was done.
 
 When contacted Pathan, he said, “Like me, many other people had also posted that picture with the same tagline, but I was targeted by  , many of whom started attacking my employer.”
 
 Pathan said he is mulling legal action, as he was   without a proper hearing. “I also posted an apology letter on Facebook, but it could not save my job.”
 
 “We were made aware of the post by a flood of calls and emails to our customer service department, questioning our endorsement of his views. We are well aware of the rights of a citizen in a democratic country with respect to freedom of expression,” a Himalaya spokesperson said, responding to an email from TOI.
 
 “In this particular case, the main display picture of the employee depicts him receiving a certificate from the business head with the logo of Himalaya on clear display. Right under this, and merged into the main image is the sketch depicting our country bleeding in rape culture. On his page he clearly mentions his designation and link to our organization. The overall impression to any person viewing his page was that these views were being endorsed by us as an organization,” added the reply.
 
 “Under freedom of expression one may not cause damage to the company reputation and the several thousand employees dependent,” the corporate communications department of the company said.
 
 
