PANAJI:The state government, as part of its vision to make Goa a preferred startup destination, will unveil the Goa Startup Policy and its incentives on Friday. They will be launched by   for commerce and industry  .

 
 
  
 
 Along with the incentives, the department is expected to unveil a slew of initiatives and the state startup portal to attract startups and niche IT companies to Goa. Other measures that will be launched are the online single-window portal for startups and the Goa startup promotion cell.
 
 “The startup promotion cell would serve as the nodal agency to register or certify startups established in the state,” a source said. “The secretary, IT, will be convenor of the cell.”
 
 The two-day event will see industry experts, entrepreneurs, policy makers, trade bodies, and representatives from the startup community gather for the release of the incentives.
 
 The state government is also counting on Goa’s quality of life, lower cost of living, location advantage, and a good blend of urban as well as rural setups to attract startups.
 
 “The Goa startup and innovation day will stand testimony to Goa as we embark on a new journey to foster innovation and help realize every entrepreneur’s dream,” said minister for information and technology Rohan Khaunte.
 
 This will be Goa’s third attempt to kick-start Goa’s IT and startup industry. Goa made its first attempt under former chief minister Laxmikant Parsekar on May 22 during the Elets Knowledge Exchange-Goa 2015 Summit, where Parsekar released the IT Policy for Goa. Following criticism and feedback, the government and the IT department went back to the drawing board and then released the IT Investment Policy 2015-20 on December 31, 2015.
 
 Though the IT investment policy 2015-20 was notified, the government failed to notify the incentives and benefits for startups and IT companies. Khaunte wants to ensure that the same mistakes are not repeated.
 
 While the Goa Startup Policy has already been notified, the schemes and incentives will go live from April 28. This will allow local startups and new startups to avail of the incentives that the state government is offering.
 
 
