NEW DELHI: The   (SSC) conducts SSC CGL examination for recruitment of Assistant Section Officer, Assistant Audit Officer, Divisional Accountant, Assistant Accounts Officer, Assistants Inspector Assistant/Superintendent Inspector (Central Excise), Sub-Inspector, Inspector (Preventive Officer), Inspector (Examiner), Assistant Enforcement Officer, Inspector of Posts, Jr. Statistical Officer, Auditor, Accountant/Jr Accountant, Sr. Secretariat Assistant, Tax Assistant. Here is the SSC CGL 2018 Syllabus, Exam Pattern, Dates, Admit Card and other details to help you prepare better. 

 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 The SSC CGL notification was released in the month of May 2018. As per the tentative calendar, the application closes on May 25 and the exams are expected to be held on July 25 to August 20, 2018. 
 
 
 
 
 The   will be conducted in four tiers as given below... 
 
 The SSC CGL Exam 2018 Tier I: Objective Multiple Choice Type (Online)
 
 The SSC CGL Exam 2018 Tier II: Objective Multiple Choice Type (Online)
 
 The SSC CGL Exam 2018 III: Descriptive Paper in Hindi/English ( Pen and paper mode)
 
 The SSC CGL Exam 2018 IV: Skill Test/Computer Proficiency Test (Whichever Applicable )
 
 Final merit list for the SSC CGL Exam 2018 will be prepared on the basis of marks obtained by the candidates in Tier I, II, III and IV exams. 
 
 Note: Interviews have been discontinued from year 2016 onwards
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Note: Total 200 Marks: Duration of the exam: 75 Minutes
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The Mains Exam will be conducted online and is an objective multiple choice exam. The major sections asked in Mains Exam are Quantitative Aptitude, English Language and Comprehension, Statistics, General Studies (Finance and Economics). Let’s have a look at the SSC CGL Syllabus 2018 Mains Examination.
 
 
 
 
 (Two sections: Total Time: Two hours for each section)
 
 Note: Paper III and Paper IV optional for few posts( Statistical and Assistant Audit Officer)
 
 
 
 
 
 The Commission has also decided to introduce a Descriptive Paper (writing of Essay/Precis/Letter /Application Writing etc) of English/Hindi as Tier-III. The Question Paper will be bilingual. The candidates will have the option to choose any one medium. This will be in Pen & paper Mode.
 
 The maximum marks for this section (Tier III) is 100 and the duration is 60 minutes.
 
 
 
 
 1. DEST (Data Entry Speed Test): FOR THE ALL POST (Other than compiler): The "Data Entry Speed" Skill Test at 2000 (two thousand) key depressions for a duration of 15 (fifteen) minutes will be of qualifying nature
 
 2. CPT (Computer Proficiency Test): The Commission will hold CPT, comprising three modules - Word Processing, Spread Sheet and Generation of Slides, for applicants for the post of Assistants of CSS. CPT will be of a qualifying nature.
 
 
 
 
 
 According to the latest SSC CGL notification there are SSC CGL calendar which contains date for your different exam Tiers. 
 
 Online registration process to start from : April 21, 2018
 Last date to apply: May 25, 2018
  SSC CGL tier I Exam Date: July 25 to August 20, 2018 (CBE)
 SSC CGL tier I Admit Card: Date TBA
 SSC CGL tier I Result: Date TBA 
 SSC CGL tier II Exam Date: November 27, 2018 to November 30, 2018 (P-II CBE)
 SSC CGL tier II Admit Card: Date TBA
 SSC CGL tier II Result: Date TBA
 SSC CGL tier III Examination: Date TBA (P-III Des)
 Skill test/interview/computer skill test: Date TBA
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 As by the Exam name (CGL- Combined Graduate Level) you know that it is a exam for the candidates who are possessing Graduate degree in of the stream from recognized institute. Additional qualification for the same will be provided as soon as the official notification will arrive. Till then you must check this page regularly for Staff Selection Commission latest updates.
 
 
 
 
 
 : Bachelor Degree
 *Desirable Qualification: Cost & Management Accountant or Chartered Accountant or Company Secretary or Masters in Business Studies or Masters in Commerce or Masters in Business Economics or Masters in Business Administration (Finance) 
 
 
 Bachelor degree with 60 per cent marks in mathematics in XII class
 
 OR
 Bachelor degree with statistics as one of the main subjects 
 
 
 
 Bachelor degree with mathematics or statistics or economics 
 
 
 
 Bachelor degree in any discipline 
 
 
 
 
 Minimum: 20 years
 Maximum: 30 years
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
