TRICHY: Trichiites as well as fliers in the region can now fly to Mumbai and Delhi directly without getting down at Chennai and catching a connection flight. The long-awaited daily flight between Trichy and Delhi via Mumbai was inaugurated here on Sunday with the customary water cannon welcome accorded to the   flight which arrived from Mumbai. 

 Flight 9W358 which had a seating capacity of 168 was occupied by 139 passengers when it arrived at Trichy and 125 passengers in the return journey, airport sources said. With this, the service will not only connect Trichy to North India but also to many international destinations through Mumbai and Delhi. Traders have expressed hope that the cargo sector would also witness a boom. 
 
 The flight (9W358) would depart at 9 am from Delhi and reach Mumbai at 11.20 am from where it would depart at 12.25 pm and arrive at the Trichy airport at 2.10, airport authorities said. In the return direction, flight (9W311) would depart from Trichy at 2.40 pm and reach Mumbai at 4.50. It would take off from there only after an hour and ten minutes and reach Delhi at 8.20 pm. So far, the Trichy airport had domestic connectivity only to Chennai with Jet Airways operating three flights and   operating one every day with high occupancy. 
 
 D Jeevakumar, a frequent flyer, expressed happiness at being connected to almost all key airports like London, Paris, Amsterdam, Toronto as well as all destinations in the Gulf through the   flight. “The flights will greatly contribute to the development of tourism, trade and industry in Trichy,” said the joint secretary of  , S A Mubashir. 
 
 “The launch of Jet Airways flights also paves the way for inbound domestic traffic for pilgrimage as our region is rich in temples and heritage sites. Further, this will enhance medical tourism also. Many people from North India living or studying here will benefit from these direct flight,” he added.
 
 Tourism minister Vellamandi N Natarajan, Backward Classes and Minorities Welfare department Minister S Valarmathi, district collector K Rajamani, airport director K Gunasekaran, Trichy MP P Kumar and head, domestic sales – India, V Raja attended the inaugural function held at the airport. 
 
 
