CHENNAI: Lack of interactions between office-bearers and cadres both in Chennai and districts and senior leaders coercing them to do chores that had nothing to do with party work were some of the complaints that DMK working president M K   received from partymen during his district-wise interactions since February. 

 As the sessions wound up on Monday, at least 3,000 petitions were submitted by cadres from all over the state that detailed internal party issues in their areas. They complained that they were hired to don the role of henchmen by seniors to settle disputes. Stalin urged partymen to set aside their differences and work together, reminding them that DMK's 2016 poll defeat was because of in-fighting.
 
 "Around 35,000 DMK cadres have met Stalin since February when the review meetings started at the party headquarters in Chennai. Many of them were able to meet their leader and also speak to him directly. Cadres felt excited to interact with Stalin and took selfies with him," said a party district secretary. It is also for the first time that such a review meeting was convened in the party headquarters. 
 
 During the meeting, the cadres were asked to speak aloud about their problems boldly and many came out with suggestions as well as complaints against partymen and women in their districts. For DMK,   has been divided into 65 districts and each district has a secretary and district level office bearers, besides middle and lower level office bearers. 
 
 "Thalapathi (Stalin) asked us to concentrate on party work and leave all other things to him. He said he knows what is happening at the lower level and asked us to focus on party work at the booth level," said a cadre from   who attended the meeting on Monday. 
 
 "Thalapathi said we came very close to winning in the last election, but in many districts we lost due to infighting. He wanted us to take advantage of the present situation in Tamil Nadu, where the state government is hardly functioning," said the cadre. 
 
 It was not only the cadres, who were enthused by participating in review meetings, even Stalin was happy interacting met cadres. "The morale in DMK is high after these meetings and I could see that in the zonal meeting held in Erode recently. It looked as though it was a state level meeting, with party cadres swarming all over the place," Stalin told TOI. 
 
 The party has set up a committee to go into the issues raised by the cadres through the petitions and action will be taken based on the report submitted by it. Stalin had also reminded partymen about the one man, one post policy being implemented by the DMK.
 
 
