KOCHI: State government has approached the high court challenging a single bench’s order for a   into the murder of Youth Congress leader  , allegedly by a gang employed by CPM leaders.

 
 Government is questioning the order for CBI probe issued by Justice   on March 7. The order for a probe by the central agency was ordered on the 24th day of the murder after considering a petition filed by Shuhaib’s father C P Mohammed and mother S P Raziya.
 
 
 It is alleged by the government that the single bench issued the order without providing an opportunity to it to file a counter affidavit and without perusing the case diary. The order was issued on the second hearing, the appeal filed through senior government pleader   said.
 
 
 “The impugned order has been passed by the learned single (judge) without taking note of the speedy, forensic and fair investigation carried out by the State Police and not giving opportunity to the appellants to file their counter affidavit and material demonstrating to the said effect. It is submitted that the failure on the part of the learned single judge to give effective hearing to the appellants has resulted in an order based on conjecture and surmises as well as full of factual inaccuracies,” government’s appeal stated.
 
 
 An order to transfer the probe to CBI by the single bench goes against the established principles of law that such a power to transfer investigation should be exercised by the court only in rarest of rare cases where a clear case of abuse of power and non-compliance with the provisions of Code of Criminal Procedure is clearly made out so as to provide credibility and instil confidence in the investigation, it is contended while arguing that the present case does not warrant an order to transfer the probe to CBI.
 
 
 Shuhaib (30),   of the Youth Congress and an active member of the party, was allegedly attacked by a four-member gang on the night of February 12, when he was having tea at a tea shop at Therur near Edayannur, along with a couple of friends. According to police, the masked assailants, who came in a car with temporary registration number, first hurled country-made bombs and then hacked Shuhaib with machetes causing serious injuries to his legs and hands. He died on way to hospital.
 
