BELAGAVI:   minister of state for home Deepak Kesarkar said diversion of Mhadei   to   affects the natural flow of the river.

 Kesarkar, who was here on Saturday on private work, told reporters that Goa is a small state with limited natural resources and   is ‘Sanjeevini’ for it and a lot of infrastructure of the state depends on its water. Although the Mhadei water dispute is between three states, Goa is the key decision-maker. Karnataka should have talks first with Goa and later with Maharashtra to resolve the issue, he said.
 
 “We are big states and we have to take care of small states. There’s no dispute between Goa and Maharashtra. There is a dam in my assembly constituency, Sawantwadi, and 76% of its water goes to Goa and 24% is utilised by Maharashtra,” the Shiv Sena MLA said. 
 
 “We give water to Gujarat and Karnataka as and when its needed,” he said.
 
 Kesarkar said the place where Mhadei originates and flows in Khanapur taluka falls in Maharashtra according to the Mahajan Commission Report. Maharashtra rejected the report since Belagavi city was the bone of contention, but Karnataka has accepted it. By that token, Mhadei river falls in Maharashtra. After accepting the Mahajan Report and claiming that Khanapur is part of Karnataka is contradictory to its claims in the Supreme Court, he said.
 
 Kesarkar, who is also minister for state for finance and planning, said late Prime Minister Indira Gandhi had suggested dividing Belagavi city into two parts to resolve the border dispute, but it did not work. The references to many taluks, including Khanapur taluk, would have changed if the border dispute had been resolved earlier, he said.
 
 Kesarkar maintained that Marathi-speaking people in border areas of Karnataka are facing injustice. He said Karnataka should give government documents to Marathi linguistics in their mother tongue at least in the disputed area covering 856 villages. Maharashtra gives documents in the mother tongue as well as English. At least, it should give documents in English.
 
 
