PUDUCHERRY: Lieutenant governor   accused chief minister V Narayanasamy and his cabinet colleagues of sitting on ‘files’, thereby delaying postings, matters relating to disciplinary action and other administrative matters in the Union territory of Puducherry. Bedi said when she requested the chief minister to expedite the process (of clearing  ), he retorted claiming there is ‘no time limit’ for him as he is the ‘people’s representative and is accountable only to the people’. 

 She was responding to Narayanasamy’s comment during an interaction with journalists on Saturday that he had instructed officials not to keep files pending for more than three days.
 
 “I think this rule (not to keep files pending for more than three days) must be practised by the Hon’ble   first and some of his colleagues, who keep certain files pending for long, thereby delaying postings, and disciplinary issues. He says there is no time limit, which applies to him. As a people’s representative he is accountable only to the people,” Bedi said.
 
 She said chief minister’s statement and his actions have revealed that he believes in two different sets of rules. “One which applies to him and another to civil services officials, who, in fact, have already put themselves on file tracking system. The only files not on tracking system are the ones which are sent to the CM office and members of the cabinet, who too ought to be,” Bedi said.
 
 She said she had to find other means to deal with service matters. But, policy matters have been kept pending for long. She said she sent a letter to the chief minister in February last year requesting him to allocate subjects to G Narendra Kumar (former development commissioner), who was waiting for regular charge since his posting four months ago. She sought the CM's views before February 10. Narayanasamy, while replying to her letter, however, said he had intended to discuss the administrative powers of the elected government on issues related to transfers during his visit to New Delhi. The ‘chief minister is not bound by any deadline regarding officers’ transfer’, the CM said in his reply. “We are answerable to the people/Assembly. Please don’t fix deadline as if I am subordinate to somebody. Basic ethics have to be followed by a constitutional authority while writing to another constitutional authority,” Narayanasamy replied.
 
 
