After 27 years,   and   will share screen space once again in director   and writer Saumya Joshi’s slice-of-life comedy, '102 Not Out'. The film has been co-produced by Treetop Entertainment, Umesh Shukla’s Benchmark Pictures and   International Productions. Sony will also distribute the movie worldwide. Adapted from Joshi's popular Gujarati play by the same name, the ageless comedy features the veteran actors as father and son. 

 Amitabh Bachchan, who plays a 102-year-old man living life to the fullest, shared, “Teaming up with Chintuji after so many years and so many successful historic films, has been the greatest joy during '102 Not Out'. A novel story, competent direction and a qualified crew have made the experience even greater. I know the country loves the younger, fresh and vibrant new generation, but whoever said that the oldies are not capable of doing something similar, we know you may not love us, but given a chance, we shall not disappoint you either. And that is as immodest as I can get. BADUMBAAAAAAAAA!” (sic)
 
 Rishi, as Bachchan’s 75-year-old reel son, said, “Being in this film brought back a lot of fond memories that I have shared with Amitji during my younger days. I am glad to reunite with him on such a special and unusual film. It will definitely delight our fans.”
 
 Umesh Shukla, on his part, shared, “Amitabh sir and Rishi sir make for a dream cast. I sensed a deep responsibility in bringing them together. I am thankful to Treetop Entertainment and Sony Pictures India who have helped me realise my vision,” he asserted.
 
 Vivek Krishnani, MD of Sony Pictures Entertainment India, the studio backing the film, added, “With films like 'Padman' and '102 Not Out', our constant endeavour is to look for stories that matter, that don’t just entertain but also leave us with a thought. We were sold from the word go when Umesh, who was behind the successful 'OMG – Oh My God!', shared the idea of this rare, heart-warming story of a father and son. We can’t describe our excitement to take this ageless comedy, with two of the greatest artistes of Indian cinema, to the audience.”
 
 '102 Not Out', billed as the year’s most unusual father-son story, is slated to release on May 4. The teaser of the film will be launched at 11 am today on Sony Pictures India social media channels and has also been attached with 'Padman'.
 
 
