Be you the prince of some palace or the son of a politician..." said Rashi to a hall in Sion full of   who could boast neither privilege, "no means absolutely no." It was one of those moments when the restless backbenchers in this co-ed hall-who would cut short many speeches with premature clapping or hooting-applauded at the right time. Another such moment came when a boy named Kaushik asked: "How many boys here like to cook?" turning the auditorium into a blur of prepubescent arm hair and oversized watches. While Kaushik's point was we shouldn't be conforming to gender roles, Rashi-a studious ninth-grader from Dharavi-wanted to say that privilege doesn't license sexual misconduct. 

 For extempore speeches, these were surprisingly mature insights and aptly set the tone for a unique "graduation ceremony" that recently felicitated over 200 adolescents from three schools for completing an intensive Comprehensive Sexuality Education (CSE) programme with the help of 'didis' and 'bhaiyas' prone to raising both their hands in a Bharatanatyam-like deer gesture while expecting silence. Over the last three years, these educators from the NGO Seeds of Awareness (SOA) in collaboration with Teach For India-had introduced these students from Shivner Vidya Mandir, Dharavi Transit camp school and   to many things their parent's wouldn't: the right names for the body part they call "main point" and the one-stop problem-solving species for all manner of teenache: Trusted Adult.
 
 From the skits to the spontaneous resolutions to hypothetical "situations" that ensued at the event, the impact of the "holistic" course-that focused on gender discrimination, body image, labelling and stereotyping, bullying and teasing, domestic and sexual violence, menstruation-was evident. "Piku loves Golu. She wants to marry him. He shows her a video of a couple having sex and says he wants to take things forward physically first. What should she do?" a chit of paper asked a clump of ninth-graders. While a girl in the group felt Piku should think about her parents before deciding, a boy felt Piku should dump Golu as "he was only interested in her physically". 
 
 During the skits, one girl's rather dramatic rendition of their loud PT teacher reduced the back row to a set of wiggling shoulders. As per the story, the PT teacher had stopped a girl from playing football because she was a girl but her talent eventually makes him come around. This skit was based on a true story- a girl named Anu who decided to convince her parents about her passion for football after an intervention by SOA. "Our idea is to create a non-judgmental safe space for kids to open up and ask questions," says Shalaka Sisodia, co-founder and managing director, SOA'.
 
 In their weekly sessions in these schools identified by Teach For India over three years, SOA facilitators tamed the students' squeamish laughs and encouraged them to be "seeds of change". "We want to make discussions on sexuality normal," said SOA-affiliated sex educator  , adding that when parents are reluctant to address the act of sex, a lot of peripheral subjects are neglected. "It has to be a part of the curriculum," said Miranda, who finds that even fourth graders are now watching porn. Among the "red flags" for the NGO are blade marks on wrists-dead give-aways of child sexual abuse warranting immediate counselling. "Kids slash themselves because they want a release as the other pain is unbearable," says Sisodia, who enlists the help of the NGO Arpan to counsel kids in such cases.
 
 The NGO tailors its course to its target audience. So, the problem "situation" given to students of a privileged school won't be about a girl who wants to play football so much as, say, labels a girl faces because of the short length of her skirt. Once, while setting out to implement the course in an Islamic school, "a parent put a fatwa on us," said Sisodia, who now looks for tiny rays of light such as a boy who confessed he was alive because an SOA session told him that feeling attracted to boys was normal. 
 
 Soon, SOA- which also conducts digital sessions- will launch a certificate course in CSE which will be accredited by TISS. Once in place, it will help the city breed the otherwise chronically lacking species called 'Trusted Adult'.
 
 
