SURAT: In a tragic incident, a 35-year-old debt-ridden businessman jumped along with his wife and four-year-old   from the top floor of 12-storey building in Sarthana area on Wednesday. 
 
 All three died on the spot. Businessman Vijay Vaghasiya and his wife Rekha (30) jumped from the passage of   on BRTS Canal Road at around 6 am. They plunged from the passage as the terrace door was locked. Police recovered a suicide note in which Vaghasiya stated that they were taking the drastic step due to severe financial distress. 
  
 Vaghasiya was running a garment store in Varachha, but had recently closed it due to some unknown reasons. He then started seasonal business and was earning enough to meet the needs of his family. Vaghasiya family is native of   village of Amreli. Police are yet to question other family members as they are busy with the funeral. 
  
 Meanwhile, police are investigating the case as per the details mentioned in the suicide note. Vaghasiya mentioned that he was facing financial crisis and was unable to pay debt. He wrote that he was living a very disturbed life due to heavy debt and the accumulated interest. Vaghasiya also mentioned to support his younger brother and parents in the note. 
  
 Vaghasiya was living in a joint family with his parents, younger brother and his wife on second floor of the apartment. The family had shifted to the apartment around a month ago. The building is newly constructed and only six occupants live in the tower from which Vaghasiya jumped. 
  
 Vaghasiya went out for a morning walk. On returning, he took his wife and son to the top floor. The family members thought that they are going out for a walk and therefore nobody stopped them. Vaghasiya was to go to Mumbai with Rekha and Veer on Wednesday for some work. Their tickets were confirmed in a train scheduled to leave at 9 am. 
  
 “So far the family members did not disclose any specific reason for suicide. However, financial crisis seems to be the prima facie reason. Once the family is done with the last rites, we will register statements of the family members,” deputy commissioner of police R P Barot said. 
  
 City police commissioner   said, “Police are taking the incident very seriously and it will be investigated thoroughly. As the deceased mentioned about financial crisis, we are investigating if any private financier was responsible for their drastic step.” 
  
  
