Dress code, constant curfews, and "no interaction" with the opposite gender is how Varsha*, a student of Amrita University, Coimbatore recalls her college years. "When it came to rules for girls in the hostel, there was outright discrimination. Even though the campus was well guarded, girls had to return to the hostel by 7pm while boys could stay out till 9pm. We couldn’t even be seen around the campus and had to be back in the hostel rooms by the deadline. When it came to going out of the hostel, for an overnight stay, boys would easily get passes but we were required to show a faxed permission by our parents to get the passes," she says.

 Aligarh Muslim University women leaders may be fighting a battle for freedom from "draconian" campus rules, but the story is nothing new for girls down south too. With too many restrictions in place, the "college experience" for girl students across institutions in the state leaves little memories to cherish. 
 
 Several campuses have imposed dress codes on women students. Women are asked not to wear tight-fitting clothes. In many   the hostel curfew timings for girls are much earlier than that of boys. 
 
 As college administrations struggle to maintain a balance between disciplining and treating students like adults, girl hostellers say the gender discrimination in rules curtails their freedom and limits their movement.
 
 A third year undergraduate student of a prominent women’s college in the city who wished to remain anonymous, said girls are only allowed outings on weekends till their third year and have to return to the campus by 5pm. "A month ago, a new rule was introduced wherein we can’t even take a walk around the campus after 6pm, cannot get food delivered after 7.30pm and can’t visit another girls’ hostel building after 8.30pm," she said.
 
 "We conveyed our grievances to student representatives, but they told us that they were helpless as there is no response by the management on this," she added. A few other colleges too have similar rules where women students are allowed to go out only twice a month or one Sunday a month and not allowed to stay with their parents when they visit. 
 
 With many of these rules also being laid down by autonomous institutions, students say some are hesitant to raise their voices against it fearing negative academic assessment.
 
 A section of parents say that several of these restrictions have not been the norm earlier. Recalling his experience as a college student, Venkat, a parent said, "The idea that we are adults was drilled into us constantly. In private colleges, professors would question students if they were found loitering in the corridors but there was no punitive action. Boys and girls had the freedom to interact. But, now the same college has suddenly become conservative. They have marked separate staircases for boys and girls and have barred them from mingling." 
 
 Rathna Sudarshan, a former professor at the National University of Educational Planning and Administration, New Delhi said that while restrictions are laid out on all campuses, the logic behind them need to be spelled out for students so that there is an understanding. "A student should be able to contest the opinions too. However, this should be done through dialogue and not confrontation. While the issue of safety has to be kept in mind, students too should be seen as adults and treated as individuals. Everything must be put on the table and dealt with in a way where there are no adverse repercussions," she said.
 
 (*name has been changed)
 
 
