NARGUND: In the ground zero of the turmoil over the   river water dispute,   and   are finding it difficult to seek farmers’ votes. Both parties have been targeted by protesting farmers for their failure to resolve the dispute with Goa and implement the Kalasa-Banduri project which would solve the drinking water problem in Malaprabha command area.

 
  
  
 
 Farmers under the banner of Raitha Sena have completed 1,000 days of protest at Nargund, seeking implementation of the Kalasa Banduri project. BJP is promising voters that it will solve the issue immediately on coming to office while Congress says PM Modi’s failure to take any initiative has kept the dispute festering.
 
 Sitting MLA BR Yavagal is the Congress candidate; his rival is CC Patil from BJP. The duo are on familiar turf as this is their fifth consecutive fight. Both have won twice each in their last four encounters.
 
 Yavagal is banking on the achievements of the Siddaramaiah government and the works taken up in the constituency during his term, like renovation of bus stand, remodeling of Malaprabha canals and development of farm ponds among others. JD(S) has fielded Girish Patil, who is trying to strike a chord with farmers by highlighting welfare programme of HD Kumaraswamy. Girish is new to politics and is relying on his grandfather and former MLA SF Patil’s credentials to connect with voters.
 
 The ruling Congress’s biggest poll gambit in North Karnataka – granting religious minority tag to   — is a non-issue here. More than caste, it is the candidate’s work and charisma that will count. Though Yavagal belongs to the Reddy community, he has managed to get more votes from Lingayats and Kurubas due to his rapport with people in all the five elections he has won from here since 1983.
 
 Candidates are wary of broaching the Mahadayi issue while wooing farmers. This even as Yavagal’s ascendance in politics was linked to his vanguard role in the farmers’ struggle of 1970s and 1980s.
 
 “No doubt Mahadayi issue will affect candidates’ prospects. The margin of victory will be low. I have already given a call to farmers to opt for   to teach a lesson to all political parties for ignoring Mahadayi issue,” said Vijaya Kulkarni, president of Kalasa-Banduri Malaprabha Jodana Yuva Horat Samiti. “Farmers are angry now and they may teach a lesson to political parties in this election,” says Veeresh Sobaradmath, president of Raitha Sena.
 
 Many farmers say there is an impression that the PM did not resolve the Mahadayi issue deliberately. But Patil says farmers may still vote for him because of BS Yeddyurappa’s stature as a farmer leader and PM Modi’s welfare programmes for farmers.
 
 
