NEW DELHI: Indian cricketers have a long, gruelling season ahead. Apart from the tough away tours to England, Australia and New Zealand, they will play in the 50-overs World Cup in England next year. So, having a bunch of injury-free players for these tours will be the main priority of the national selectors.

 
 
 
 Sensing the urgency to address the fatigue factor and manage the heavy workload of senior cricketers, the three-member national selection committee - led by MSK Prasad - is looking to give rest to some members of the team touring South Africa during the forthcoming   in Sri Lanka from March 6 to 18.
 
 The T20 tri-series, which will involve India, Sri Lanka and Bangladesh, will be organised to commemorate the 70th anniversary of Sri Lanka’s independence. India, if they make the final, will play five T20 matches.
 
 
 
 Sources close to the selectors told TOI that pacers Bhuvneshwar Kumar and Jasprit Bumrah could be rested for the tri-series and young pacers like  ,  , Jaydev Unadkat or   could get a look in. Skipper Virat Kohli could also be offered a break from the rigours of T20I cricket if he himself wants a rest and either Rohit Sharma or Ajinkya Rahane could be named stand-in captain. The name of Axar Patel is doing the rounds for the role of a specialist spinner.
 
 With Prasad and his colleague Sarandeep Singh closely watching the Karnataka-Hyderabad Vijay Hazare proceedings on Wednesday, top-order batsman Mayank Agarwal did a world of good to his chances with a timely, attacking 111-ball 140.
 
 “Look, this thought (of resting seniors) has been crossing the minds of selectors. They also believe that it’s only logical to give rest to regular performers who have been managing the workload in all three formats of the game. The tour of South Africa has been tough on their bodies. The Sri Lanka tour offers an ideal scenario to rest some key players, while checking the bench-strength,” the source said.
 
 “Don’t forget, all these cricketers would get busy for the IPL with their respective franchises and won’t get time to rest enough. The tour of England will start just a few days after IPL. We need our best on tough tours,” the source added.
 
 The source also informed that the middle-order slot in the team is very much up for grabs.
 
