AHMEDABAD: It was already April 15 and the pressure on the   police to identify the young victim of rape and murder was mounting but there were no clues found from the spot that could help investigators. Ahmedabad city crime branch was asked by Gujarat DGP Shivanand Jha to join the investigation primarily in its technical aspects

 Several probe teams were formed under police inspectors KG Chaudhari, VK Malhotra, Jayesh Chavda, sub-inspectors AP Chaudhari, KI Jadeja, KD Jadeja, BH Korot and   under the supervision of additional DCP Rajdeepsinh Zala. DCP Deepan Bhadran, along with inspectors   and Rajesh Suvera from Ahmedabad provided the technical assistance. The team led by inspector VB Barad and sub-inspector Shinol went to   and caught the accused.
 
 “There was marathon viewing by experts of CCTV camera footage from all possible sources. After about seven hours, there was a sliver of hope,” said a police official. 
 
 “A red light (the brake-light of a car) was noted in the footage of the spot near the site from where the body was found. The car had stopped for about 55 seconds and then zoomed off. We did not lose hope and counted time from the spot to all nearby junctions after which the lead on the black car involved was worked out,” said the police official.
 
 The car, however, posed another problem. It was a black hatchback but there were thousands of such cars in the city. Multiple teams were formed merely to identify the cars in different areas which were near the spot on the day. The police zeroed-in on a handful of cars. 
 
 One of the cars had gone missing just two days after the incident. This raised suspicion. The team eventually tracked down the owner who had sold it to one of his tenants. The tenant confessed that  , the prime accused in the case, had taken his car on the night of April 5 without his knowledge.
 
 One of the police teams had reached the building where Gurjar was living while taking the victim’s photograph for identification. The building has Harisinh, Gurjar’s brother, living on ground floor whereas Gurjar and two other tenants live on the first floor. The police movement alarmed Gurjar who immediately left Surat and went to Rajasthan.
 
 
