VISAKHAPATNAM: Work has begun on an ambitious   that will supply electricity to areas in the core city in a giant project that is being funded by the World Bank.

 The 250-km project that is being taken up jointly by the AP Eastern Power Distribution Company Ltd (APEPDCL) and the World Bank will make Vizag the first city in the country to have such a large   power supply network.
 
 The government is aiming to have the project up and running by July 2019.
 
 Civil   of Underground Electricity Network (UEN) began this week by one of the contractors near RK Beach along the coast.
 
 The need for an underground power supply network was felt after Cyclone Hudhud leveled the city’s electricity poles in October 2014, leading to several days of blackouts. The state government then came up with the UEN proposal to replace the existing overhead cables with underground cables.
 
 World Bank agreed to fund the project through AP Disaster Recovery Project by bearing 68% of the project’s total cost. The total cost of the project is Rs 720 crore with the World Bank’s share being Rs 490 crore.
 
 The total length of the UEN is 250 km covering all core city areas like RK Beach, MVP Colony, Kailasagiri, Vizag Port, Fishing Harbour, RTC Complex, Jagadamba Centre, Isukathota, Hanumanthawaka and Kancharapalem.
 
 Areas like Madhurawada, Gajuwaka, Simhachalam and even Seethammadhara along the National Highway-16 are excluded from the project.
 
 Speaking to TOI, APEPDCL executive director (World Bank Projects) B Ramesh Prasad said civil works of three packages were given to the contractors and fourth package work would be given to a Delhi-based contractor in April this year.
 
 “The civil works of Package 2 given to L&T have already begun, close to RK Beach under Pandurangapuram sub-station. The project will have to be completed by July, 2019,” Prasad said.
 
 Prasad added that WAPCOS Ltd, a Delhi-based firm, was selected to provide the services of Project Management and Quality Check of UEN in Vizag City.
 
 
