COIMBATORE: Right to Education (RTE) activists, educationists and student psychologists have expressed alarm at the ordeal children from the Gundri region in   district were going through; TOI reported on Thursday that the students had to leave home at 5am to catch the lone bus to reach their school at Kadambur, 19km away. They could get back home only at 10pm, again by the only bus that they board at Kadambur at 8.30pm.

 “I am wondering how mentally strong they are,” said Dr Rajasekar, a psychiatrist in Salem. Restoring the mental stability of a student who is in a home environment and gets support from parents itself is difficult. It could be much worse for these tribal students if they lose their mental balance due to arduous journey and sleep deprivation,” he said.
 
 Poomozhi, a Salem based RTI and RTE activist, cited rule 6(4) of the RTE Rules that states: “For children from small hamlets as identified by the appropriate government or the local authority, where no school exists within the area or limits of neighbourhood specified under Rule 6(1) of the RTE Rules, the appropriate government or the local authority shall make adequate arrangements, such as free transportation and residential facilities for providing elementary education in a school, in relaxation of the area or limits specified in the said Rule.
 
 He said that though RTE does not apply to higher secondary students, the state government should provide free transportation for college and school students considering their future. The central government had allotted Rs.17.70 crore to the school education department to provide transport and escort facilities to children hailing from habitations situated in dense forest areas and hilly regions. “It would be helpful to higher secondary and college students if the central government came up with such fund allotments,” Poomozhi added.
 
 Another RTE activist and former state president of the   Science   N Mani said it is the duty of the state government to provide education to all, both elementary and higher secondary. “The school education department should take step to provide transportation facilities for these students without citing government norms,” he said. He urged the central and state governments to come up with an amendment to the RTE to benefit higher secondary school students as well.
 
 General secretary of   for Common School System P B Prince Gajendrababu, cited Article 21 of the Constitution which stresses the right to live with dignity. “Here, the children have lost their dignity by sitting like alms-seekers from 4 to 8.30 pm at the Kadambur bus stand,” he said. It is the responsibility of the government, the education department and the district administration to take care of these children as they are the future pillars of this country.
 
 
