NEW DELHI: This weekend’s bonanza   player auction will once again pit the moneybags, scouts and decision-makers of the eight franchises against each other in a frenzied bid to purchase serious T20 talent. Of the 360 Indian cricketers go under the hammer in Bengaluru on January 27-28, here are five who could fetch hefty paycheques.

 
 ALSO READ: 
 
 
 
 The biggest success for India in T20Is in 2017 was the legspinner Chahal, who claimed 23 wickets, the most by any bowler last year. This included an astounding haul of 6/25 against England, which are the best figures for India in T20Is. RCB’s decision to not retain the bowler on whom much of their success has been over the past three IPL seasons was a surprise, but chances are they will bid hard for him with one of their Right-to-Match (RTM) cards. His innovative and bold brand of legspin, allied with his control and confidence to flight the ball in the face of attacking batsmen, has proven a big threat and Chahal, with a base price of Rs 2 crore, should be one of the biggest money-earners at the IPL auction. 
 
 ALSO READ: 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 Rahul’s most successful IPL season was in 2016, when he scored 397 runs at a strike-rate of 146.49 while keeping wickets in all but two games of RCB’s run to the final. Since then, his credentials as a T20 player soared: in 2016, he became the third Indian to score international centuries in all three formats and in 2017, he was India’s third-highest run-getter in T20Is with 279 at a strike-rate of 140.90, with three half-centuries. Rahul can open or bat at Not 3 and 4, and given his ability as a wicketkeeper; his skills look sure to be highly valued come auction day. With a base price of Rs 2 crore, the 25-year-old should see that skyrocket. 
 
 
 
  
  
 One of the most skilled Indian fast bowlers when it comes to Twenty20 cricket, Unadkat will enter the IPL auction with renewed enthusiasm having been named Man of the Series in the 3-0 T20I sweep of Sri Lanka last year. During the last IPL, he finished second on the bowling table with 24 wickets in 12 games for Rising Pune Supergiants, striking every 11.4 deliveries while conceding runs at 7.02 per over. The 26-year-old spearheaded Pune’s bowling with several key performances including two Man-of-the-Match showings - a career-best 5/30 highlighted by a hat-trick in a maiden last over versus Sunrisers Hyderabad, and 2/12 to go with a direct hit run-out and fine diving catch as Pune clinched second spot and knocked out Kings XI Punjab. Another significant display came against Mumbai Indians, when he defended 17 off the final over while taking two wickets. Unadkat’s ability to hold his nerve and bowl accurately at the death was instrumental in Pune’s surge into the play-offs last year, and will not have gone unnoticed by IPL scouts. 
 
 
 
  
  
 With Chahal, Kuldeep formed a heady mix in limited-overs for India in 2017 and enters the auction with plenty of speculation as to where he will end up. The left-arm wristspinner from Uttar Pradesh made his India debut in all formats last year and saw his stock rise after helping beat Australia in the deciding Test of the Border-Gavaskar Trophy and when, in his ninth ODI, he claimed India’s first hat-trick since 1991, also versus Australia. Kuldeep’s only IPL experience has been with Kolkata Knight Riders, for whom he has taken 24 wickets at a strike-rate of 18.25 and economy of 8.08. KKR have to retain him, but could use one of their RTM cards to get him back. 
 
 
 
  
  
 Where will Karthik end up this IPL, having turned out for Delhi Daredevils, Kings XI Punjab, Mumbai Indians, Royal Challengers Bangalore and Gujarat Lions? Having played ODIs and T20Is for India last year, and currently in South Africa as part of the Test squad, it is evident that Karthik’s reputation as fine wicketkeeper and batsman hasn’t diminished. And his recent T20 form is encouraging: in five matches of the ongoing Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy, he scored 211 runs at a strike-rate of 167.46 with three fifties. Franchises in search for an Indian wicketkeeper-batsman capable of floating through the order should have Karthik in their sights.
 
 
 
 
