HYDERABAD: A 21-year-old girl student of   (UoH) died after the car in which she was travelling crashed into a road divider and overturned at   thanda near Shamshabad around 3.30am on Tuesday. Two others in the car were injured. Police found empty beer bottles in the car. 

 Shamshabad police said the trio - Ananya Goel (21), a 1st year MA political science student and a native of Shamli in UP,   and  , a tax consultant - was on a drive to celebrate  's birthday. 
 
 
 
 
 However, the celebrations ended in a tragedy. Pawar, who was driving the vehicle, lost control of the wheel and crashed into the road divider at a steep curve. The car flipped over several times and landed on the road, police added.
 
 “Ananya, who was sitting in the rear seat, suffered severe head and chest injuries. She died on the spot. Nikita, who was in the front passenger seat, suffered a fracture in her left leg, while Pawar did not suffer any major injuries,” Shamshabad sub-inspector Mohammed Ahmed Pasha said.
 
 After the accident, Pawar contacted police on ‘Dial 100’ and a patrolling vehicle reached the spot within minutes and shifted the injured tax consultant, who is from Jodhpur, Rajasthan, and Nikita Bansal, a job-seeker from Siliguri, Bengal, to Continental Hospitals at Gachibowli as they stay in hostels in Kondapur. Ananya used to stay on the campus.
 
 “Pawar’s birthday was on Monday. So, after roaming and partying in Gachibowli, they went for a long drive in search of a dhaba on the Bengaluru highway through the Burjugadda village road,” the SI said.
 
 “We found empty beer bottles in the car. The injured victims, however, claimed they did not consume alcohol. We took their blood samples and we can confirm whether the driver was under the influence of alcohol or not only after we receive the report,” the officer said. Ananya and Nikita became friends while pursuing undergraduation in Delhi.
 
 Police have registered a case under Section 304 (A) (Causing death by negligence) and 338 (Endangering life or personal safety of others) of the Indian Penal Code. However, no arrests were made in the case.
 
 Ananya’s body was shifted to Osmania Hospital and later handed over to her family after the autopsy. UoH Student Union conducted a condolence meeting to mourn the demise of Ananya at Velivada at shopping complex on the campus on Tuesday evening.
 
 
 
