BENGALURU: Taking the posture that only two will contest from the family, the JD(S) on Saturday evening released the list of 126 candidates with names of   (Ramanagar constituency) and his brother H D Revanna (Holenarsipura). 

 However, the JD(S) has kept a window of opportunity open for two other aspirants from the family by not declaring the candidates’ names for Raja Rajeshwarai Nagar and Channapatna constituencies. Revanna’s son Prajwal Revanna and Kumaraswamy’s wife Anitha are eyeing these segments.
 
 Sources said Kumaraswamy and   are in a dilemma over declaring a candidate for Channapatna as some party workers want Anitha to contest from there. According to them, Anitha is the sole candidate capable of taking on incumbent MLA C P Yogeeshwara who’s newly inducted into BJP.
 
 “If Channapatna ticket is given to Anitha, then the doors are automatically wide open for Prajwal to ask for a ticket from R R Nagar,” said a JD(S) leader.
 
 It is said Kumaraswamy is trying hard to get rid of the ‘appa-makala paksha’ tag by not allowing either Anitha or Prajwal to contest, there by saving the credibility of the regional party. The JD(S) has already nipped Revanna’s wife and Hassan ZP member Bhavani’s hopes of contesting from Belur. 
 
 Meanwhile, the party has given tickets to two Congress old warhorses—former MP H Vishwanath will contest from Hunsurand former minister PGR Sindhia from Bhalki. Vishwanath has visibility in Kuruba community which is in sizeable number in Hunsur while Sindhia is considered for his Maratha connection.
 
 The party is backing incumbent MLA and JD(S) loyalist G T   for Chamundeshwari constituency in Mysuru to have a high-profile face-off with chief minister Siddaramaiah.
 
 “The second list of candidates, which includes segments of RR Nagar, Channapatna and Devara Hippargi will be released in 10 days.Party workers want me to contest from Devara Hippargi also but I don’t want to create confusion among people and give an opportunity for the opposition to target me on this issue, said JD(S) state president H D Kumaraswamy.
 
 Newbie is JD(S)’ choice in Varuna 
 
 Mysuru: A political greenhorn, Abhishek has been nominated as the JD(S) candidate in Varuna segment represented by CM Siddaramaiah. Abhishek, who was working in the US, recently got back and started working in the segment, a JD(S) leader told TOI. 
 
 A Lingayat, Abhishek’s father is a senior official in JSS Mahavidyapeetha, the education arm of the Suttur mutt. “There were only two prominent contenders. Mahadevaswamy, a Vokkaliga, was another aspirant and we chose a Lingayat to take on Siddaramaiah if he’s contesting from Varuna constituency,” he added. 
 
 
