NEW DELHI: Asserting that his government was committed to ending the “exploitation” of contract workers and abolishing the contract labour  , chief minister Arvind   on Tuesday said a proposal to regularise their services was in the works. 

 Speaking at a function to mark the International   Day, Kejriwal talked about the tussle between the government and LG Anil Baijal, even referring to the latter as “Hitler”. He claimed that LG was creating “unprecedented hurdles” in the work of his government.
 
 The function, organised by Delhi government, was attended by labourers from different assembly constituencies. The Delhi units of the Centre of Indian Trade Unions and the All India Trade Union Congress, along with some other unions, however, skipped the event.
 
 Labour minister Gopal Rai announced that, soon, all registered construction workers of Delhi would get passes for free travel in DTC buses. The government highlighted the work it had done for the welfare of contractual workers. 
 
 Kejriwal said his government had formed a committee, comprising officers, representatives of labourers and contractors, to hike minimum wages of workers in the wake of rising prices. “The report was sent to LG, but he objected to it, saying the committee was formed without taking his approval. LG rejected all recommendations of the committee,” Kejriwal claimed.
 
 He said the AAP government had to form the committee again because “LG did not listen to his prayers to give post facto approval” for the committee and delayed the increase in minimum wages by around six months. “I have never seen such ‘Hitlershahi’ (dictatorship),” he said, adding that while such hurdles angered him, he could do nothing about it.
 
 Taking a dig at IAS officers, Kejriwal said: “IAS officers should also be paid on the basis of the requirement of calories if the same rules apply to labourers. They are humans, not animals,” he said. He was commenting on the nutritional requirement of 2,700 calories a day that is generally considered while deciding minimum wages for labourers.
 
 Kejriwal alleged that labourers were being exploited in the city. “I have met several labourers who get far less money than what contractors show on paper. There are many such contractors in the city,” he said. Warning stern action for violation of minimum wage norms, Kejriwal said he would ensure that the errant companies and contractors were punished once the HC ruled on the matter of punishment. “The government currently cannot take action against such companies because of a stay by HC,” he claimed.
 
 Kejriwal said if Delhi was granted statehood, “we would have made all contractual labourers permanent. We are facing certain hurdles but we will do it soon. We will take strict action against those not abiding by minimum wage norms for labours”. 
 
 He also urged all labourers to send their kids to school and assured that the government was taking steps to improve the quality of its schools.
 
 
