PUNE:   teachers in rural areas working for more than three years may get transfers to more favourable places now that the online transfer process has rolled out. 

 Aseem Gupta, secretary of rural development, said the transfers will happen for inter-district and intra-district and about 5,000 teachers in each category will be accommodated before May 15. In stark contrast, a mere 100 teachers were given transfers in the offline process. 
 
 Gupta said there are about 35-40% teacher couples whose transfers together may run into problems. Even so, their transfers will be within 30km of each other, he added. Officials said the online process was opposed by teachers’ lobbies and political groups. 
 
 The transfer process the zilla parishad education department followed till last year was unfavourable to teachers in difficult or inaccessible places. 
 
 “Earlier, a teacher could apply for a transfer after five years, but whether he or she got one depended on the vacancy. After 10 years, the teacher, if he wants should be given a transfer to the place he desires,” an education officer said. 
 
 Now that the process has gone online, the influence a teacher has to effect such transfers will matter less in the transfer process, the officer added.
 
 Teachers opposed the new rule and a group approached the   against the decision. However, the court ruled in favour of the government and the transfers can be requested if a teacher has completed three years in difficult areas.
 
 “The portal was opened in March. For inter-district transfers, we had 19,000 applications from teachers. Around 4,000-5,000 will be transferred before May 1. Since the academic year ends on May 8, the transfers will be executed after May 8 but before May 15,” Gupta added.
 
 He said the move would benefit teachers in remote areas who stay away from their families. “We now estimate that at least 5,000 teachers will get transferred,” he said. No-objection certificates from both the zilla parishads for intra-district transfers will not be needed.
 
 The application for intra-district transfers is still on. “Once inter-district transfers are completed, we will check the vacancies in the 20 schools that teachers have opted for intra-district transfer process. Currently, we have 100% staff in cities and such parts of the state while a 50% vacancy in villages and rural areas. The imbalance will be under control once the implementation of the transfer process runs for three-four years,” Gupta said.
 
 Some areas have been identified as unfit for women and they won’t be expected to go unless they apply for that place. There are special allowances for teacher couples so that their postings are as close to each other as possible.
 
 
