KOLKATA: A film by a student at Satyajit Ray Film and Television Institute has run into trouble with the Central Board of Film Certification, which has demanded a change in the title of Sounak Kar’s “Sex with the Monk and Other Stories”. Refusal to comply has cost Kar and the institute the opportunity to send the film for consideration for this year’s national awards.

 Recently, the censor board asked for six changes, including the muting of the word, “Gujarat”, in “Aaleya”, a Bengali film directed by   deputy inspector-general (traffic) Humayun Kabir. The board also clamed down on the words, “Ahmedabad”, “Jai Shri Ram”, “Kafer” and “Trishule genthe”.
 
 The CBFC show cause notice for Kar’s film said the title violated Guideline 6 of the Cinematograph Act, which stated, “Board shall scrutinize the titles of the films carefully and ensure that they are not provocative, vulgar, offensive or violative of any of the above-mentioned guidelines”. Justifying the cut,  , advisory panel member of CBFC Kolkata, said, “Such a title is a deliberate attempt to create religious disharmony. The guideline states CBFC can’t allow titles that are offensive. By asking for this change, CBFC Kolkata has only followed a provision of the Cinematograph Act.”
 
 SRFTI director Debamitra   called the CBFC fiasco “unfortunate”. “The CBFC has been cooperative with us. In this case, the student refused to change the title. It is his independent decision. Without a censor certificate, no film can apply for the national awards. It is the institute’s loss,” Mitra said. Calling the CBFC recommendations “silly”, Kar said, “When I made this diploma film, I was not thinking about a national award. I will not change the title.” His 31-minute-long English film is set in a single day in Kolkata where a young boy meets two girls. The first is his neighbour, Levonne, who was thrown out of her work for trying to taste an edible undergarment. The second one is his girlfriend. Following the two strange encounters, he decides to be a monk and leave the city for good.
 
 Kar’s film has no lovemaking scene. “The protagonist listens to the girls’ experiences. In a conversation, a girl confesses to have had sex with a monk,” said  , SRFTI film research officer. He said the notice stated the film was recommended an “A” certification with a cut. “The cut asks to change the title ‘Sex With A Monk’. But the original title is ‘Sex with the Monk and Other Stories’. The notice doesn’t specify whether the entire title has to be scraped or just these words. The film has an intertitle where the same words are used. But nothing on that has been mentioned.”
 
