NOIDA: Notorious gangster  , 43, a former hitman of the dreaded   gang, was gunned down in an encounter by special task force teams from Haryana and   after a 30-minute chase through sectors 37 and 41 in Noida on Monday morning.

 Bullets flew in the busy sector 41 market, injuring two STF men and three passersby, one of them seriously. Balraj’s two accomplices managed to escape.
  
  
 The gangster, a former constable in the Delhi Police, carried a reward of Rs 2.5 lakh on his head — one lakh each from the Delhi and Haryana police forces and Rs 50,000 from the Uttar Pradesh police. He was wanted in multiple cases of murder, attempt to murder, extortion, etc., in the three states, police said.
  
  
 Accompanied by two other unidentified men,   arrived in Noida via Delhi’s Kalindi Kunj in a Swift car when he was intercepted by the STF of Haryana and UP near Noida’s Sector 37 overbridge.
  
  
 According to sources, the Haryana STF, which is probing Balraj’s role in at least two cases of murder and extortion in Faridabad, got inputs that his gang would be coming to Noida to collect extortion money from a target. As many as 20 STF personnel from both Haryana and UP started following the gangsters in three Scorpios.
  
  
 The chase started from Sector 37 overbridge at 11.20 am and continued for 15 minutes till the white Swift carrying Balraj and others reached Sector 49/41 red light via Agahpur village on Dadri road. The criminals, meanwhile, opened fire and multiple gunshots were exchanged.
 
 According to Haryana STF, the car suffered a tyre burst and jumped the footpath. The Sector 41 car market was buzzing with commuters.
 
 Eyewitnesses told TOI that the three criminals, including Balraj, got off and started running, leaving the car behind.
 
 “As they fired on the police, our teams split into two and followed the criminals,” B  , SP, STF Gurugram.
 
 Having run for over 100 metres, Balraj entered a plot behind Bikaner Sweets in Sector 41 where he found a ladder, using which he climbed a wall to reach the terrace of an adjacent construction company. His accomplices, meanwhile, fled the spot.
 
 As the buildings surrounding the terrace of the construction company were higher, Balraj found no place to escape and got trapped on the terrace. “The STF officers started firing at him but Balraj continued to retaliate till bullets in the three magazines of his pistol got emptied,” said an STF officer. Balraj was hit five times. Eyewitnesses said as many as 70-80 rounds of fire were exchanged.
 
 He was taken to the district hospital around 12.15 pm where he was declared brought dead. A 9mm carbine, a 9mm pistol and seven live cartridges were recovered from the spot. However, sources claimed the criminals were also carrying an AK-47, yet to be recovered.
 
 A case has been lodged against unidentified assailants and Balraj under IPC section 307 (attempt to murder), and section 25 of the Arms Act.
 
 Two personnel of STF Gurugram — head constables   (34) and Bhupinder (36) — were injured in the encounter and were taken to the district hospital in Sector 30. They were later discharged. At least three civilians were injured, including a 13-year-old boy, Ravinder, a disposable items supplier Ajay (35), and a waiter at Bikaner Sweets, Ravi (21).
 
