Vadodara: Her autistic daughter was barely five and a half years when Lata Iyer, 49, lost her husband in a train accident at Byculla in Mumbai. But this did not deter her from giving a better life to her daughter, whom she raised as a single parent along with her son. This academic consultant not only underwent training to raise her own special child, but also used her learning to bring autistic kids into the mainstream by establishing a centre for them. The centre started running from her home in Vadodara four years ago. While she continues raising her daughter, who will be turning 20, Iyer is also spreading the spirit of motherhood by providing her voluntary services to special kids in the city. She is credited for being Gujarat’s only licensed dyslexia therapist.  Born and brought up in Porbandar, Iyer married in 1991 immediately after doing her BCom from Vallabh Vidyanagar.  “My daughter Anushka was three and a half years old when she was diagnosed as an autistic child. The treatment in those days was costly as we had to travel to Bengaluru from Mumbai for just 20-minute sessions of occupation therapy, speech therapy among other treatments,” recollects Iyer. It was on her husband’s insistence that she had pursued BEd in special education from Mumbai University in 2003, and earned second rank. But tragedy struck her life next year when her husband, who was working with a MNC, died. “As my parents lived in Vadodara, we shifted here and I started working as a teacher with various schools. But educating my child was expensive, so I started giving private tuitions to children,” said Iyer, who also took out time to take voluntary remedial classes for special kids along with that of her daughter after her school job and tuition classes. She had to take loans from her relatives, friends, and the management of the school where she was teaching in the city, to pursue the rigorous and expensive Dyslexia Therapist Training Programme in 2009. The course is conducted by the Maharashtra Dyslexia Association in collaboration with the Multi Sensory Language Training Institute of New Mexico. She founded the Reach-Centre for Autism and Special Needs in her small house on Old Padra Road in 2011, but Iyer started facing opposition from the neighbourhood because of the noise the children made. The centre is operating from a rented accommodation for the last two years. “Everything is happening through word of mouth. We are running the centre with the support of individuals and those parents who can afford to pay the fees,” said Iyer, whose centre presently has enrolled 14 autistic kids while she has voluntary helped around six kids to join the mainstream in regular schools. “My next target is to train teachers of municipal schools. There are multiple subject-wise teachers. Even if we train one teacher in each municipal school, it will go a long way in helping special kids as unlike other kids they cannot express themselves with ease,” she said.