HYDERABAD: The ‘skidding spree’ that spread panic among motorists — particularly along the Telugu Talli flyover stretch — on Friday, is only the latest in a string of similar incidents that have occurred across multiple places in the city in the past, said civic officials on Saturday.

 “We came to know about a similar incident two weeks ago wherein some two-wheelers had skid on the Telugu Talli flyover. Within minutes, a team was sent to the spot along with earth-moving equipment which spread sand and mud as a precautionary measure,” said A Laxminarayana, executive engineer, Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC).
 
 On Friday, apart from the flyover opposite the Secretariat, reports of similar skidding came in from other areas such as Nagarjuna circle, Tank Bund, between   X roads and Indira Park, Ashok Nagar, Lalapet bridge area, Prasad’s Imax and at   too. While two-wheelers were the most affected, even cars were not sparred by the slippery maze. An SUV hit the   flyover late on Friday night. Though no casualties were reported in the accident, the air-bags inside the car inflated due to the impact.
 
 “Because of the slippery surface, almost 10 accidents took place within a span of 30 minutes on the stretch from Punjagutta to   no 2,” said a cop from Banjara Hills police station, present at the site.
 
 Explaining the probable reason for these frequent skidding, experts said that was rooted in accumulation of oil (leaking from vehicles) on these roads for a prolonged period of time. “When the accumulated oil mixed with water, it resulted in smooth tar surface. The smooth surface reduced the friction due to which vehicles travelling at high speed skid,” said Ramana Rao, engineering expert from National Institute of Technology, Warangal.
 
 Following the spate of accidents, the GHMC has decided to make the roads rough at the identified spots to ensure that such incidents do not reoccur. Road safety experts also warned motorists to limit their speed to below 50 kmph.
 
