BHOPAL: Discoms in the state paid a staggering Rs 6,500 crore to power generating companies in last three years without buying a single unit of power from them. 

 Excessive power purchase agreements (PPAs) led to unnecessarily burdening consumers, sources said. To obviate heavy financial losses, discoms have now started to foreclose PPAs with power producing companies.
 
 The figure came to light after discoms submitted Annual Revenue Requirement (ARR) - a document stating projected income, expenditure on sale and purchase of electricity to the   (MPERC). The commission uploaded the ARR submitted by discoms on public domain and inviting objections and comments from subscribers till February 16.
 
 
  
 
 In the ARR, discoms said, "The surplus has led to back down (no use) of available capacity as prices in exchange also are not attractive". 
 
 "However, payment of fixed charges is required to be made for such generators in line with the PPAs. In previous years, it was observed heavy quantum of power had to be backed down and petitioners ended up paying fixed costs to generators against power which was not availed just because petitioners had to respect the power purchase agreements entered with such generators," the discoms said the ARR.
 
 The discoms also informed in 2014-15, some 7099 million units of power was backed down (not used) and Rs 870 crores was paid as fixed charges. Similarly, in 2015-16, 17130 million units of power were backed down (not used) and Rs 2,158 crore had to be paid as fixed charge to power producing companies. In 2016-17, it went up to 28379 million units and Rs 3,598 crore had to be paid to generators. 
 
 Informing the MPERC of the steps that are being taken by the discoms, they have also informed the regulator in the ARR that, "As a first step to manage surplus power, discoms decided to foreclose the PPA with DVC for 400 MW from DVC and 100 MW from DTPS with effect from March 1, 2018 and May 15, 2017, respectively. Further, a proposal to surrender MPs' share in   Mouda Stage I, ATPS Chachai -Phase 1 and Phase 2, NTPC Kawas and NTPC Gandhar is under way."
 
 An official of the   said, "The PPAs with DVC and DTPS have already been approved. But in case of other proposals, until and unless some other state agrees to procure Madhya Pradesh's share willingly, the state will have to bear cost of the fixed charges for these power generators." 
 
 Sources, however, say after paying this phenomenal money without even buying power the discom have only shown Rs 1,306 crore revenue gap (difference between income and expenditure) and had sought a power tariff hike of 4% from the MPERC. But if these Rs 3,500 crore - a wasteful expenditure - is saved it is quite likely the power tariff could be decreased instead of increasing it, which would bring much respite to already tariff-stressed consumers, sources said. 
 
 
