NEW DELHI: A day after a   was allegedly thrown at a  , a similar incident was reported in the area on Wednesday evening. The   reached Amar Colony   late at night to register a complaint. Though the first victim is yet to lodge a complaint, police have started a probe into both the incidents.

 “The matter has been taken up with local RWAs. We are rounding up ruffians and setting up pickets to intercept them. We have also been checking shops selling balloons with the size of two inches and above,” DCP (southeast) Chinmoy Biswal told TOI.
 
 The students said that this was not the first time that such an incident has taken place. Most of them, who stay as paying guests in Lajpat Nagar-IV and Double Storey area, claimed that balloons filled with semen and rotten eggs being thrown at them has been a common occurrence over the past few years.
 
 “We made an appeal to beat constable to check the houses from which we were attacked, but no action was taken by them. At times, youths in passing vehicles throw the balloons at women,” said a woman who was attacked a few days ago. However, the matter was not reported to police.
 
 Though patrols have been intensified in areas prone to such attacks, their intensity has increased during the evening hours.
 
 The women’s development cell of Lady Shri Ram College had decided in a meeting on Tuesday that students will complain to police if such incidents continue to occur. Many cases of harassment in the days leading up to   have been faced by LSR students in the past as well.
 
 After the attack on the woman on Wednesday, around 50 students reached the police station to get the complaint lodged. The victim said that around 6pm a balloon thrown from the terrace of a building near the Old Double Storey area in Lajpat Nagar hit her while she was walking with a friend.
 
 “As soon as I realised that the balloon contained semen, I ran up the stairs only to find the terrace locked. I couldn’t find anybody there. I met a girl on the stairs who denied throwing the balloon,” the victim told TOI.
 
 Senior officers have asked constables to patrol the area on the request of the students after a few of them were hit by water balloons in Greater Kailash-I while they were travelling in an autorickshaw.
 
 
