JAIPUR: A leaked official communication is all set to create a furore for the BJP government in the state. The attempt to reach out to disgruntled party workers, who have been complaining about the government paying no heed to them, has put the   government in a soup. On Friday, the   of primary education sent out an official communication, addressed to state MLAs and district presidents, about sending recommendations for transfers in a particular format. The letter, signed by   (RAS) officer and special assistant   of the minister for education, also attaches a format in which information should be provided in columns.

 It seeks from all those who are ‘party functionaries’ or have held positions in the ‘party’ in the past to indicate where they might like any relatives, who are working in the primary education department of the state, to be posted. The columns should indicate the name of the party functionary, place of current posting of the person wishing transfer, the place to which the transfer is desired, and the nature of the teacher’s relationship with the party functionary.
 
 
 
 
 It is believed that such a letter is to be sent to MLAs and all party presidents by all departments.
 
 The letter, dated February 16, is actually based on the letter (dated February 14) which was sent out to BJP MLAs and district presidents by the chairman of the State Public Grievances Redressal Committee Shree Krishan Patidar.
 
 Though, this has nothing to do with the grievances redressal committee, Patidar has sent out the letter using the official letterhead. Patidar, who is a known Raje loyalist, reportedly sent out the letter to all the party MLAs and district presidents after rising complaints from workers that the BJP’s recent debacle in the bypolls was a result of government not acting on their recommendations.
 
 “This was a way to put on record the recommendations sent by party workers, which are usually forwarded by the local MLA or district president. As the committee chairman, Patidar has nothing to do with recommendations sent out by workers. But being a close associate of Raje, he is involved in the process of transfers and so sent the letters,” admitted a senior party member.
 
 Stung badly by the recent defeat in bypolls, this was BJP government’s attempt to reach out to its workers.
 
 When contacted, education minister Vasudev Devnani, however, told TOI that this was “not a circular but a letter to MLAs, to indicate preferences for posting of teachers”. Devnani claimed that the letter was meant for all MLAs irrespective of the political party they might be affiliated to.
 
 The move has come in for severe criticism. The state Congress claimed that the support for BJP has eroded and the party is out to woo party functionaries. State Congress president Sachin Pilot said, “This is blatantly unconstitutional and revolts against the norms of good governance. Not only must the state government withdraw this circular, it must issue a public apology.”
 
 Teachers’ unions in the state and the opposition Congress have reacted with disbelief. Secretary Subhash Chandrabhat of the state teachers’ union (Siyaram) told TOI, “I have been a teacher for over 25 years and have never come across an official circular like this, which blatantly makes such a partisan differentiation between government employees. We know that there are internal matters of political parties, and that postings could be influenced by those in power. But it was never so blatant.”
 
 In a letter to chief minister Vasundhara Raje, the union has expressed dismay at such partisanship. This ‘Bhai-Bahtijivaad’ won’t do, the letter says, explaining that special treatment for the kin of BJP functionaries is not acceptable and goes against the Constitution. The union has sought the withdrawal of this circular and issuing a fresh one that takes into account interests of all the state’s primary schoolteachers, not just those who are of BJP functionaries.
 
 
 
