NEW DELHI: He had been trying to evade the law for the past 12 years. However, a chance arrest in a case of possession of illegal arms helped cops nail 36-year-old   not only for a burglary committed in 2006, but several other cases by using his  . During the day, Malik was a bus conductor and a criminal by night. He is an expert in breaking locks, police said.

 On December 24, 2006, Lalit Batra, a businessman, had reported that thieves had stolen Rs 30,000 in cash, jewellery and other valuables from his house in Kalkaji. 
 
 An FIR had been registered and fingerprints were lifted from the crime scene by forensic experts. While cops could not solve the case, the fingerprints were preserved at the crime record office (CRO) of   at   in central Delhi.
 
 On January 7, the inter-state cell of crime branch arrested Malik, a resident of Ghaziabad, with a country-made pistol. During interrogation, he disclosed his involvement in several cases of theft and burglary. Subsequently, a criminal dossier was prepared after taking his fingerprints. When Malik’s prints were run by the fingerprint bureau of Delhi Police, cops were surprised to find that they matched with the ones that had been lifted in the Kalkaji burglary case.
 
 “Malik was later interrogated by cops from Kalkaji and he disclosed that he was a member the Kalu Billa gang. He had committed robberies and thefts in other metropolitan cities as well. He also had a small gang of three people, including a woman,” DCP (southeast) Chinmoy Biswal said.
 
 The woman would conduct recce in upscale localities of south and southeast Delhi on the pretext of looking for work. She would mark the houses that were locked for two days or more after which the gang would strike. 
 
 While the cash was distributed amongst all gang members at the crime spot, the woman would take the stolen jewellery to a goldsmith who would melt them and pay in cash.
 
 “Fingerprint evidence, though not as high-profile as other high-tech crime-solving methods like DNA typing and technical evidence, is still very useful in criminal investigations. While the principle that no two people can have the same fingerprints cannot be scientifically validated, it is generally considered a highly-reliable piece of evidence by the courts,” Biswal said.
 
 
