HYDERABAD: Improving school infrastructure with increased focus on residential schools is in store for   this year, as the government increased the budgetary allocation for education sector by 21%. It earmarked Rs 16,101 crore for education, a hike of a whopping Rs3,396 crore as against Rs 12,705 crore last year.

 According to figures presented by Telangana finance minister   in the Assembly on Thursday, there are 41,337 schools in the state imparting education to 58,66,786 students. Majority of the enrolled students in government educational institutions belong to SC, ST, BC and minority categories. Of the total allocation for education, ₹10,830 crore has been earmarked for school education department.
 
  
 “In the proposed budget, we intend to build toilets, repair dilapidated buildings including those of   and complete construction of model schools. We are also planning to establish a college for teacher education under the Pragathi Paddu scheme. New blocks will also be established at 10 District  ,” said G Kishan, commissioner of school education department.
 
 This year, residential schools have got a lion’s share of the budget with an allocation of Rs 2,823 crore, which is Rs 375 crore higher than the amount allocated for higher education. “We have massive plans of improving facilities such as libraries and laboratories in existing residential schools. Apart from this, we will also be spending on introducing new technologies such as robotics, internet of things and digital programmes in schools. Impetus will also be on the newly sanctioned residential degree colleges, where we will be introducing specialised courses,” said  , secretary of  .
 
 The government allocated ₹2,448 crore for higher education. However, it brought little relief to the cash-strapped universities. “The allocation for higher education sector is much lower this time with lower focus on universities. How does the government expect to improve quality of education in universities and colleges if the allocation of funds is poor? ” asked Gouri Satheesh, convenor of KG to PG Joint Action Committeee.
 
 
 
