MUMBAI: After nine years with the  , last June saw   finally move out of the franchise which, in its history, has only managed to win two Eastern conference titles.

 
 But Lopez may well have walked into the most exciting period for the team he was traded to, the  , since the showtime era which starred Magic Johnson, if the efforts of the owners to get superstar LeBron James and Oklahoma City Thunder small forward Paul George to the Lakers materialise.
 
 "It's a very exciting possibility," said Lopez, adding: "Obviously they are two supremely talented players and they have both changed the face of the teams and it is definitely going to be an interesting off season when it happens."
 
 So does Lopez think the acquisition of James and George could see the 16-time champions win their first Larry O'Brien trophy since 2010 when the Lakers triumphed under the leadership of Kobe Bryant?
 
 The 30-year-old centre offered an interesting response. "It's amazing that for most teams winning a title only eight years ago would be a good thing. But that just speaks of the success the Lakers have had and expectations they have had."
 
 However, Lopez acknowledged the star power of James and George could indeed help Lakers match Boston Celtics' record of 17 titles which is the most by an   team.
 
 Lopez, who was 10 the year Michael   helped Chicago Bulls win their sixth title, says the growth of basketball has helped new franchises like the   and Cleveland Cavaliers push the traditional power centres like Celtics, Lakers and Bulls out of the equation.
 
 "I think it's cool to see the growth (of new teams) and obviously growing up, I looked at the dynasty team like the Bulls, Lakers, Celtics.
 
 "It's cool to see Cavs and GSW trying to make history at the moment. These make the league a global phenomenon and I think that's obviously so special about the NBA."
 
 Now that he is with the Lakers, Lopez is looking forward to the battles with Celtics that was such a rage in the 1980s when Magic Johnson battled with Larry Bird.
 
 "Being on the Lakers, I'd love to partake in a Lakers-Celtics final.
 
 "It's such an amazing rivalry, my favourite rivalry in sports, and I think a lot of people say the same thing and that's awesome," said Lopez.
 
