SECUNDERABAD: In a damning report to the ministry of defence (MoD), the   ( ) and the   (DEO) have gone the extra mileto pointoutthe violationsby the Local Military Authority ( ) in closing down the civilian roads, thereby making commuting difficult for lakhs of people. Though four roads are now free for use for civilians at night, the general refrain among residents is: All the civilians roads must be made available to commuters with no restrictions whatsoever.

 
 “The civilian roads which are primarily meantfor public arebeing unnecessarily blocked by the LMA in Secunderabad Cantonment in total violation of rules,” the report submitted by SCB said.   (DGDE), working under the MoD, had sought a report on the status of the civilian roads closed in Secunderabad Cantonment by the LMA without following thedue procedure as per theCantonmentsAct-2006.
 
 The reportsaidthat a majority of roads closed by LMA fall under ‘A-1’ defence land classification. A-1 land is categorised as ‘under active occupation of  .’ Gough Road, which the LMA has proposed to close permanently from June 1, also comes under this classification. Out of the 15 civilian roads, 10 roads have been classified as A-1 defence land and the remaining five are classified as ‘C’ (Cantonment Board land for use) land.
 
 LMA did not adhere to the provisions of the Act in making the roads out of bounds for the commuters, pointed out the report. “We have clearly mentioned names of the roads that were closed, survey nos. as per general land records (GLRs), classification of the roads, whether the roads werebeing usedby civiliansor not, whether the roads were open to vehicular traffic,whether the road falls inside the unit lines, etc,” a senior official told TOI. The report also had details about road closure timings effected by LMA.
 
 A key MoD letter (dated January 7, 2015) addressed to the CEO of SCB on reopening all the civilian roads outside the unit lines clearly asks him to place the letter before a full   but this was never done in the last four years,sourcessaid.The report also explained how section 258 of Cantonments Act was not followed. “In the five-page report, we urged the MoD to reopen the closed roads immediately.Four of them have already opened, providing a huge relief to the commuters,” a senior official said.
 
 While the residential welfare associations mounted pressure on SCB to take action and open the roads, the matter had bever come up for discussion at the board meetings.
 
