HYDERABAD: Mornings on the Moosapet IDL access road that connects Kukatpally and Madhapur are a curious mix of exercise and strife. On one side of the road, hundreds of health-conscious citizens run, walk and jog or simply breathe in the relatively fresh air close to the IDL lake. On the other stretch of the double road, however, irate cab drivers and hurrying IT employees fume as traffic in both directions are forced to manoeuvre their way through a narrow road.

 
  
 
 It wasn’t too long before a row broke out between the two groups, with motorists even staging a dharna on the issue last week. They also complained to the police and pointed out how the arbitrary closure of half of the road in the morning is leading to traffic congestion and accidents.
 
 “I frequently take this route to my office during mornings. There are two sharp curves in the 3.2km IDL access road that connects the national highway from Kukatpally Metro to   leading to Hi-Tec City. As one stretch is closed in the morning, cabs and other vehicles drive on one lane, leading to accidents. I complained to the traffic as well as law and order police, but there has been no action. Walkers block the road using stones and even police barricades,”  , an IT employee and resident of Bollarum told 
 
 
 A cab driver, Jahangir, said they had staged a dharna last week. “Kukatpally ASI M Krishna assured us that the road is meant for vehicles and traffic will be freely allowed. But the blockade is still there,” he rued.
 
 But walkers who flock to the area due to the IDL lake and greenery of the   campus insist they need to have a bit of space in the increasingly congested city. “There is not much traffic in the early mornings. Accidents are happening as cab drivers drive rashly and in a hurry. The government should encourage us and provide us space for at least this early hour,” said M Srinivas, a frequent walker.
 
 Cops, on the other hand, say their property cannot be usurped. “Our barricades are put up for drunk driving checks. They can’t be used by others. We have informed the law and order police regarding the road blockade,” Kukatpally traffic inspector A Sattaiah told 
 
 
 Kukatpally ACP Bhujanga Rao said, “At least 1,000 people walk on this 100-feet road. It is blocked only for an hour. We will inspect and take action.”
 
