KOZHIKODE: A 26-year-old youth continues to be in prison even after the high court granted him bail as his relatives and friends are scared to help him as hewas branded as an ‘Islamic State(IS) terrorist.’ Muhammad Riyaz, hailing from Peringadi near Mahe, was arrested on charges of trying to smuggle a girl to the Islamic State-controlled areas in Syria. But in the order granting bail the division bench of the HC clearly stated that the investigating agency had, thus far, did not find any terror link in the case.

 The bail was granted to Riyaz on Thursday with the stipulation that he should furnish a simple bond for Rs one lakh with sureties for the amount. But Riyaz is still in jail as no one has come forward to stand as surety.
 
 
 “I have made arrangement for the money, but no one from our family iswilling tobecome a surety for him. They are all frightened,” said Riyaz’s father RasheedP P, who isin Saudi Arabia. “Our relatives have snapped even my WhatsApp connection,” hesaid.
 
 Two other accused in the case, who are also Riyaz’s relatives, were arrested and released on bail. Even those who stood as surety for them are not willing to help Riyaz. “I have tried my best to get someone help me. Saturday and Sunday are holidays and I want him out at least on Monday,” saidRasheed, who was on the verge of tears while speaking to TOI from Saudi Arabia over the phone.
 
 Riyaz married a Hindu girl hailing from Pathanamthitta while he was studying in Bengaluru. He took her to Saudi Arabia after the marriage. The girl returned to India after she was informed that her father was ill. After a few weeks she filed a case in the high court saying that Riyaz and his family forced her to convert to Islam and forcibly tried to send her to Syria as ‘sex slave’ for theIslamic State.
 
 After the initial investigation by the  , the case was transferred to the   (NIA). In the bai lorder Justice,   and   said the material recovered from the laptops were not enough to brand Riyaz as a terrorist.
 
