KOCHI: After a visit to the house of   custodial death victim Sreejith SR on Thursday morning, Tripura chief minister   announced a compensation of Rs 5 lakh to his family on behalf of his government. 

 
 Criticizing CM Pinarayi Vijayan for not even visiting the family of the deceased, Deb said: "I request Vijayanji to come and see the family. There is nothing wrong in doing so, only his stature among people will increase. Stop being arrogant, history has shown what happened to such people. A minor girl was raped and killed in Dhanpur, the constituency of then CM Manik Sarkar. To save his party, he didn't visit the family."
 
 He alleged that   governance had political motives. "Keralites have made Dubai an international city, Kochi is not becoming such a developed city because of the politically-motivated governance here. He is the chief minister of the state and not of the communist party. Does it matter that this particular household supports  ," he said.
 
 Deb said police took Sreejith into custody due to a case of mistaken identity. "This means that communist leaders gave orders to police to nab and thrash him. A man was killed and chief minister kept on visiting nearby areas," he added.
 
 The Tripura chief minister claimed that there were political murders Leftist government was in power. He said that Kerala and Tripura have several similarities like food habits, weather and educational standards except the government that was in charge of the state. 
 
 "The change in Tripura was brought by the dynamic citizens of Tripura and I think Keralites will follow suit," he said, adding that he will be visiting the state frequently.
 
 Ponting out that Sreejith's family is from a backward class, Deb claimed that   was an anti-dalit party. Sreejith's mother   conveyed her gratitude for Deb's assistance. 
 
 "We want a CBI probe to unravel the mystery behind my son's death," she said.
 
 Sreejith SR was arrested on April 6 and tortured by the police. He died on April 9. Four police officers were arrested in the case.
 
