BENGALURU: Four people, including reality show star   alias Pradeep, were arrested on Saturday for allegedly kidnapping two men, including a restaurant employee at gunpoint, and extorting money from them. 

 Kitty alias Pradeep, Santosh alias Thoppa, Arjun alias Muttappa and   alias Kulla, are all in their late 20s and residents of Basaveshwaranagar. Tsunami Kitty had participated in an edition of Kannada Big Boss.
 
 Police are looking for Sunil Kumar, who reportedly plotted and executed the crime. The arrests followed a complaint by T Girisha, a restaurant server in  , west Bengaluru.
 
 According to police, Sunil was recently married and he suspected his wife of having an extra-marital affair with Taushiq alias Taufiq, of Goripalya. 
 
  "Sunil's wife would often go for dinner with Taushiq to a family restaurant in Mariyappanapalya. As they were regular customers, Girish knew them well and often reserved tables for them. On February 25, the woman and Taushiq were having dinner but suddenly left. Taushiq is said to have called Girish, saying they were in trouble as his partner's husband had come to know of their visits to the restaurant," the police said. 
 
  Three days later, the accused kidnapped Girish when he was walking near Bhuvaneshwarinagar in Mariyappanapalya. "They took me to a house in Horamavu and locked me up. A person called Sunil was there.   asked whether I had an affair with Sunil's wife and I denied it. They showed me a woman's photo and asked if I knew her. I said she was the woman who'd come with Taushiq," Girish stated in his FIR. 
 
 Girish told the accused how Taushiq and Ramya hurriedly left the restaurant on February 25, without paying the bill. "As directed by the accused, I called Taushiq and told him my manager was asking for the money. Not knowing I was kidnapped, Taushiq said he'd come to Goraguntepalya signal by midnight and pay the money," Girish said in his statement.
 
 The accused brought Girish in a car and drove to Goraguntepalya. "Taushiq had come there and the accused kidnapped him and took him to the same house in Horamavu. All attacked Taushiq and Sunil asked him at gunpoint whether he had a relationship with his wife. Taushiq confessed he loved her but was unaware she was married. They snatched Rs 10,000 from me before releasing us early next day," Girish said.
 
 
