In the latest episode of  , Neil and KK are seen buying chewing gum from a local vendor. KK gets a reality check when the vendor asks for money instead of a selfie, as the former expected. Avni, on the other hand, is seen walking with Mowgli, in search of a lawyer.
 
  Next, a fan approaches KK and takes him to a cafe to have a few words. Neil goes with him. Just then, Avni comes there looking for Mowgli. She almost runs into Neil but they miss each other. The lady invites KK and asks him to come as chief guest of cultural fest. KK agrees and asks when is the function.
  
  
 
  
  Mowgli runs into Neil and through their conversation, the latter learns that the former lives with a bunch of kids and they are in need of food and money. Neil gets some food packed for him and then leaves with KK.
  
  Avni finally finds Mowgli and asks Ila to pack food. Ila tells her that it's already packed. Mowgli tells her about the man who paid for the food. She runs after Neil to see who he is but as soon as she is about to reach out to him, the media surrounds KK, who is accompanied by Neil, and she turns away.
  
  Saisha and Samrat talk about KK. Saisha tells them that she wants to meet KK but Sunehri tries to stop her as Avni would never permit that. Saisha pays no heed and leaves anyway.
  
  The scene shifts, Ila tells Avni that it was some hero's bodyguard who paid for the food. Avni writes a thank note. Avni reads an ad of a cultural competition, for which the first prize is Rs 50000. She goes to make the call as she needs the money.
  
  Neil comes back to cafe and Ila return this money that Avni had left for him. Neil sees the thank you note and leaves. He misses Avni once again as she enters right when he leaves the cafe.
  
  Shweta calls Neil and they exchange a few words. She feels that Neil sounded happy on the phone. After the call, she tells Bebe about the change in Neil.
  
  Next, Avni tries to convince Saisha to take part in the competition as it is important for them to win the money.
