LUCKNOW: A study by   has found that Uttar Pradesh has an untapped export potential of about $5 billion. The   has recommended that to increase its exports, the state needs to diversify into higher value-added sectors like pharmaceutical and automobile and into high-value products like electronic components, hardware and aerospace components.

 In a discussion on export possibilities for the state held in Lucknow on Friday, Exim Bank’s deputy general manager Ashish Kumar revealed the preliminary findings of the study on UP.
 
 “UP ranks fifth among all states by value of its exports between 2012 and 2017. Its annual average growth for this period is 4.1%, against an all-India growth of -1.7%. In fact, it has done better than the first four states on this list, beating Maharashtra, Gujarat,   and Karnataka. However, there is a lot more that the state can achieve with its share in the country’s exports at 4.5%,” he said.
 
 An example quoted in the study is that of meat. Meat excluding poultry tops the list of export goods in the state at 47%. Despite this, there is a potential to increase meat exports by $1,363 million.
 
 UP is among a handful of states that are completely landlocked, making costs of transportation very high due to distance from major sea ports. However, said infrastructure and industrial development commissioner  , the construction of Jewar airport close to the intersection of the Delhi-Mumbai industrial corridor and   industrial corridor in Dadri will significantly improve access within the state and to large ports. Principal secretary (industry)   added that the Dadri-Noida-Ghaziabad belt was also being developed as an investment area.
 
 “We are looking at not just increasing volume of exports but also job creation through it. In a recent meeting with the Centre, we have given a list of four to five points through which we can boost exports from UP. The two sectors which we believe have huge potential are readymade garments and gems and jewellery,” said Sinha.
 
 
