After Anand ‘S’ Ahuja set #husbandgoals for many by changing his name on social media, we asked filmmakers and actors from the Gujarati film industry about their thoughts on this gesture. Here's what they had to say. 

  
  
  
 What Anand did for Sonam is sweet. It’s a good thought. I don’t know if I would do the same for my partner. At that moment, if I feel I should add my partner’s initial to my name, I might do it. However, I strongly feel that one doesn’t need to display one's feelings to the world. I don’t need to add my partner’s initial to my name to show her how much I love her. I feel, after marriage, both husband and wife should keep their identities intact. The girl should feel free to retain her own name given to her by her father and the same applies for the man. Why does a couple need to adopt each other’s names to spend their lives together? Why would you want to prove things to the world? Changing names is unnecessary. It’s best to be equal. Feminism is all about equality, and not about favouring a particular gender.”
 
  
  
  
  
  This gesture says how important Sonam is in Anand’s life. It is like an acknowledgement of her being a part of his life and his identity. On a larger scale, men can consider changing their name after marriage too, and it is okay to do so.
 
  
  
  
  
  I think it’s a very strong and lovely gesture by Anand. It shows his love for Sonam. You should do what your heart says. While the wife usually changes her name after marriage, even a man can do the same if he wishes to. Breaking the stereotype is a great thing. If I get married, I would love to add my partner’s name to my name. Not for the society, but because of my love for my partner and it will be more like a sense of pride for me to be able to associate my name with that of my partner. And if my partner decides to add my initial to his name, I would be really proud of him. I would know that he is open and doesn’t care about people judging him.
 
  
  
  
  
  I really love what   has done for Sonam. In fact, I am open to doing the same after marriage. Also, I felt bad for Sonam when she was trolled for taking up her husband’s last name on social media. Shouldn’t that be her choice, whether she chooses to use it or not?
 
  
  
  
  
  To tackle patriarchy, the onus must be on men to try and level the playing field and strive towards equality of the sexes. Anand’s decision is a lovely step in the right direction, assuming it isn’t just for Instagram likes. My wife and I had mutually decided that no name change was needed on either side.
 
 
