JAISALMER: After the closure of   from March 28 there is crisis for drinking water in hundreds of villages in Jaisalmer district. The water supply has reduced due to which water is being supplied once in 5-6 days. In dozens of villages in Jaisalmer district due to carelessness of PHED the water supply has been disturbed and there is water crisis. There has been information that large number of cattle and animals have died of water shortage. Water tankers have not been started in drought affected villages. In Jaisalmer municipal council has totally failed in supplying drinking water.

 District collector and MLA for last one year were asking the state government to hand over the responsibility of water supply to PHED and state government is silent on this. MLA   said that there is serious condition of water scarcity in dozens of villages in Jaisalmer district. In many villages tube well and hand pumps are not working and in many villages and hamlets water is not reaching in GLR. Despite GLR connected with pipeline it is not connected to tube well.
 
 He said at Savita village GLR was made and connected with pipeline but till date water has not reached there. Tube wells in many villages are not working or have dried up and there is very serious problem of drinking water in villages like Sipla, Amarsagar, Toga, Dabri, Been ki Dhani etc. He said serious condition is of   where the state government has given responsibility to municipal council to supply drinking water and it has totally failed. He said many times letter have been written to state government requesting to hand over the responsibility to PHED but no action has been taken.
 
 Zila pramukh Anjana Meghwal said water supply is very little and many cattle are dying and carcasses can be seen lying here and there. The situation in Fatehgarh is worse. She said tube wells are waiting to be repaired in many villages and lot of time is being taken to repair them. Due to sub-standard repairing the tube wells need repairing once again. There are around 634 scarcity hit villages and hamlets in Jaisalmer where supply of water has to start from April 1 but it is being supplied for namesake at a few places. It is said that due to diesel problem tankers are not being sent. Petrol pumps are not giving fuel on credit as bills of last year are outstanding. Jaisalmer district collector K C   said that they are trying to improve the system and sending water tankers in village areas. 
 
 
