Mysuru & Madikeri: Opposing the Thalassery-Mysuru Railway line via  , a protest will be staged at the Dasara Exhibition Grounds on Sunday, said ‘Kodagu against Railway’ coordinator J P Ayyanna.

 Speaking to reporters here on Thursday, Aiyanna said, “River Cauvery is the lifeline of Karnataka. Coffee and paddy are mainly grown in Kodagu district. If the railway project is implemented, it will severely impact the main catchment area of Cauvery. With unwanted development projects like the Mysuru-Kushalnagar-Mangaluru Railway line and widening and upgrading of state Highways to National Highways will affect the Kodagu belt.”
 
 “The high-tension   project from Mysuru to Kozhikode had resulted in the cutting down of 50,000 trees. With the road widening and railway line projects, many more trees will be cut resulting in groundwater depletion,” he added.
 
 “Two proposed railway lines will pass through Kodagu and both will have Periyapatna or KR Nagar as junctions. While one is between Thalassery in Kerala and Mysuru, the other connects Hunsur with Mangaluru via Periyapatna, Kushalnagar and Madikeri. If the line to Kushalnagar is permitted, it will lead to the destruction of the green belt and  ,” Aiyanna opined. 
 
 He added that the   will destroy Kodagu and thousands of farmers in the Cauvery belt will lose water sources. “The Thalassery-Mysuru Railway line will lead to more than one lakh trees being cut. There is already fluctuation in rainfall. About 70% of the water is KRS reservoir is a contribution of Kodagu. If this belt receives low rainfall, it will indirectly affect Mysuru, Bengaluru and Tamil Nadu as well,” he added. 
 
 The protest rally will begin at Dasara Exhibition ground at 9.45 am. More than 20,000 people are expected to take part in the rally which will proceed through various roads of the city including Hardinge Circle, North gate of the Mysuru Palace and then return to Dasara Exhibition ground.
 
 72 buses to ferry protesters to Mysuru
 
 Agitators from Kodagu will be ferried to the protest in Mysuru in 72 buses. Chottekmada Rajeev Bopaiah and Machimada M Ravindra, the organisers of the protest said thousands of protestors will gather from Kodagu, Bengaluru, Mandya and Mysuru on Sunday. Cheppudira P Muthanna, the coordinator said, “We don’t need deadly projects that destroy the environment, fauna and flora of Kodagu. Railway minister Piyush Goyal has already invited us for a discussion on the railway projects in Kodagu. The committee will explain the possible ill effects of the project on Kodagu.”
 
 
