BENGALURU: The massive fire that broke out on the banks of   on Friday has not only left citizens distressed but has also taken a toll on their health, with some complaining of breathlessness and dizziness.

 Especially at risk are children and senior citizens, who are left with little choice but to inhale the toxic smoke caused by the fire, allegedly resulting from the chemical waste and raw sewage dumped in the waterbody. Though the year has only begun, residents are already dreading the impending summer, which could worsen the already grave situation as fire incidents are more frequent during hotter days. Locals said those residing in apartments like  , Wild Grass in   and families in  , Jakkasandra, Iblur and parts of   were the worst affected by the fire and smoke.
 
 
 “My son who is a bronchial asthma patient was wheezing and finding it difficult to breath on Friday night. Though we closed all the doors and windows, he still experienced uneasiness. There have been previous instances of smoke billowing from the lake area but we have lost hope since it is a defence land. We want the government to come up with a permanent solution to this problem,” said a resident of Esteem Royale.
 
 Syed Vasti, a college student and resident of ST Bed Layout, said: “My mother was feeling suffocated since Friday morning due to the smoke.”
 
 A sleepless night for many
 
 Kumanan M, manager of Esteem Royale, which has nearly 120 flats, said: “Senior citizens and children staying in the apartment complex are more vulnerable. I have received complaints from several residents saying they couldn’t sleep at night due to the thick plume of smoke emanating from the lake.”
 
 “Our apartment was affected since the wind direction was towards this side. We have also seen ashes in the complex premises due to fire. We fear the situation may aggravate during summer,” he said.
 
 Badrul H L, who works as a security guard in Ejipura, said: “Though there have earlier instances of fire, this was arguably the worst. The smoke increased at night and the smell lingered till today (Saturday) evening”.
 
