PANAJI: The lack of reference material for drug testing at the Central Forensic Science Laboratory (CFSL), Hyderabad, has made it increasingly difficult for Goa police to investigate drug cases, sources say. The state police routinely send drug samples to the CFSL, and since it doesn’t have the facility to identify the type of drug, over 20 cases are currently pending investigation, a senior police officer said. 

 
  
 
 Inspector general of police (IGP) Jaspal Singh told TOI that the force has taken up the matter with the authorities concerned. “We have written to the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) and the   Control Bureau (NCB),” Singh said. 
 
 A senior police officer said that the anti-narcotics cell (ANC) and local police often catch drug peddlers with chemical   such as LSD and MDMA. The officer told TOI that these drugs are sent to the CFSL for identification, but since the laboratory can’t confirm them, the cases get delayed, and these delays often help the accused get bail. 
 
 Superintendent of police (SP) Umesh Gaonkar, who heads the ANC, raised this issue at a recent narco-coordination meeting. The NCB also requested the MHA to establish a forensic laboratory for the detection of narcotics and allied research. 
 
 In 2018, Goa police have so far booked 88 narcotics cases, seizing drugs like MDMA, LSD, ganja, charas, cocaine and heroin. The force also arrested 31 Goans, 49 non-Goans and 13 foreigners. In 2017, Goa police registered a 400% increase in drug cases as compared to the previous year. After chief minister Manohar Parrikar ordered a crackdown on the drug trade in 2016, police booked 161 cases under the Narcotic Drugs and Psycotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, and arrested 172 persons. These comprise 60 Goans, 79 non-Goans and 26 foreigners.
 
 As per ANC statistics of the past five years, 80% of all foreigners arrested in drug cases have been Nigerians. The police have seized a wide variety of drugs — ganja, MDMA, cocaine, charas, LSD, LSD paper, heroin, amphetamine, ketamine, DMT, etc.
 
 “Synthetic drugs are usually sold in Goa during the peak tourist season, when foreigners are in the state,” a senior officer told TOI. They are especially in demand on the state’s   circuit.
 
 
