RAJKOT: An overwhelming majority of young girls in   strongly feel that ‘inherent male nature’ and ‘sexual frustration’ among men is the prime reason behind the rise in brutal rape cases in the country. In fact, even young boys agree that ‘sexual frustration’ mostly leads to sexual assault on women. 

  
  
 This has been revealed in an extensive research titled ‘Rapes In India’ carried out over the past few years by a Rajkot-based woman who graduated from the Trinity University in the US. Nupur Agrawal, born and brought up in Rajkot but now settled in Hong Kong, interviewed 1,000 college-going students (500 girls and as many boys) in the age group of 18-22 to find out the reasons why women are frequently subjected to this trauma. Agrawal took up this study as part of her research in BA psychology and religion, especially because she was shaken by the 2011 Nirbhaya gang rape case of New Delhi.
 
 The students interviewed were from nine major cities. These included New Delhi, Mumbai Ahmedabad, Rajkot, Surat, Bharuch, Ankleshwar, Anand and Porbandar. She held detailed group discussions and one-to-one interactions with the students. “When the topic of sexual offence was discussed, there were women who were much more vocal and men who remained subdued,” said Agrawal, who is presently working with Chen Yidan Foundation as a researcher and partnership manager. 
 
 A huge majority of women also stated that the men’s desire to prove their masculinity and exercise their dominance over women resulted in rapes. 
 
 Talking to TOI from Hong Kong, she said “It was shocking to find out that our youth still don’t know the definition of rape. Moreover, many youngsters still carry a parochial mindset that women should be accompanied by some family member when goes out at night.”
 
 “I also found that the idea of sex education embarrasses all and the fact that men come to know about woman’s menstrual cycle only after marriage,” she added.
 
 Besides the big cities, Agrawal also interviewed youngsters in small towns like   to learn more about the mentality of youth in India and how Hindu scriptures were being misinterpreted for political purposes after the incidents of rapes. For example, after the Nirbhaya incident, BJP leader   quoted Ramayana citing the story of Sita crossing  . “I have also read the stories of Mahabharata and Ramayana but politicians and religious leaders interpret mythology as per their convenience,” she said.
 
 Talking about the rise in rapes of minors, Agrawal said, “Not only minor girls, but boys too get abused sexually. Even boys should be taught about good touch and bad touch.” 
 
 
