CHANDIGARH: Panjab   (PU) bagged the 20th position among   in the National Institutional Ranking Framework (NIRF), 2018, announced by the ministry of human resource development on Tuesday, performing better than last year when it stood 33.

 Under the overall category of institutes, PU improved its rank to 33 from 54 in 2017. University   (UIPS), PU, secured third position amongst pharmacy institutions in the country, with an overall score of 76.50 points. University Institute of Chemical Engineering and Technology (UICET) got 59th rank amongst engineering institutions of the country, while the University Business School of PU bagged 42nd position.
  
  
 Professor Rajiv Lochan, director, Internal Quality Assurance Cell, cited various factors for the improvement in the ranking. Under teaching and learning resource and research and professional career, PU performed well as around 10% of young faculty members of various departments joined Phd, one of the areas where PU was lacking. He said in all major departments, including UIET and UIPS among others, young faculty members have enrolled for Phd after the vice-chancellor asked them to do so.
 
 Under the graduation outcome and outreach and inclusivity parameters, the scores improved as various departments started to track their old students. According to the report, the departments have to focus on two areas — how many graduate students joined higher studies and how many were placed after the course. Referring to   and public administration, Lochan said these departments were the prominent ones that track and keep the records of their old students. He said the IQAC was going to ask more departments to keep track of their alumni.
 
 Savita Gupta, director, UIET said the department put up a good show to bag the 59th position as last year it was not among the first 100 institutes.
 
 Professor Kanwaljit Chopra, chairperson, UIPS, said the department was only 1.7 points away from the first position, which Niper bagged. She said NIPER secured better marks than PU in student-teacher ratio of the institute and strong financial backup.
 
 
