NOIDA: Union minister   advised   officials on Saturday to mind their behaviour while talking to people who come with grievances and act swiftly on complaints, saying there had been “some lapses” on their part.

 “Your behaviour should be such that people can come forward with their problems. There should not be a tendency to speak rudely with someone,” Sharma, also the Gautam Budh Nagar MP, said. He was speaking at a meeting with the Authority’s CEO, project engineers and other senior officials. The meeting — the first such session in Sharma’s tenure as MP — had been organised to review projects undertaken by the Authority. 
 
 The minister also laid down the “ABC” — availability, behaviour and confidence — of works ethics, pointing out that a number of residents had approached him and even the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO) after their complaints had not been addressed by the Noida Authority.
 
 Speaking on the issue of sanitation, Sharma directed the officials not to sweep things under the carpet. He said there was a tendency to repair roads and drains only during a visit by the Prime Minister or some other dignitary. 
 
 “When the sectors were formed, we forgot where the waste generated would be disposed. There have been some lapses and the Noida Authority has been facing some allegations,” he said.
 
 Sharma said that the foundation stone for the development of the Botanical Garden across 400 acres would be laid between April 14 and May 5, however, he did not mention the specifics.
 
 He also pulled up the officials when the upkeep of the Government PG Degree College in Sector 39 was raised. Sharma said the problem had not been addressed despite several representations from the college principal and residents.
 
 The minister further pointed out that a water pipeline on the Shahdara bridge in Sector 16 had been leaking for almost a month and that vehicles openly flouted the one-way rule on the Udyog Marg and Harola road. “If making the Harola road one-way has given rise to corruption and the one-way rule cannot be implemented, then make it two-way,” he told the meeting.
 
 The Authority officials were also asked to resolve the impasse over land required for Noida projects at the earliest. The officials were told to speak to farmers who have refused to part with their plots at the rate offered by the Authority.
 
 Sharma also ordered the formulation of a policy to ensure that the level of road bridges was not higher than that of buildings in Noida and suggested that an elevated road be built across the Shahdara drain to link it with the Meerut Highway. “It has to be seen whether it will be funded by the Centre or the state government,” he said.
 
 Additional CEO RK Mishra said the issues raised by the minister had been noted down by the Authority. “A report will be sent on this account soon as required by him,” he said.
 
 
