Renault and   are in talks to merge, seeking to solidify their two-decade-old alliance under a single stock as an unprecedentedshift toward electric and shared cars transforms the industry, people with knowledge of the matter said.

 A deal would end the current alliance between the companies and marry them as one corporation, said the people, who asked not to be identified. Renault currently owns 43% of Nissan while the Japanese carmaker has a 15% stake in its French counterpart.  , the chairman of both companies, is driving the negotiations and would run the combined entity, the people said.
 
 A merged giant would be a more formidable rival for Volkswagen and  . While the alliance of Renault and Nissan has brought savings, the fragmented ownership structure has prevented companies from reaping full benefits from their union.
 
 The parties are discussing a transaction in which Nissan would essentially give Renault shareholders stock in the new company, the people said. Nissan shareholders would also receive shares in the new company in exchange for their holdings, they said. The automaker may maintain headquarters in both Japan and France.
 
 
  
  
 
 Getting a deal done could prove very difficult, the people said. The French government owns 15% of Renault and may be reluctant to relinquish control over its stake or have its position watered down. Both the French and Japanese governments would also have to approve a deal and may have strong opinions on where the combined company is domiciled, the people said. One possibility would be to base the company in London or the Netherlands. No final decisions have been made and the talks, which have been ongoing for several months, may not result in a deal, they said.
 
 A spokesman for the Renault-Nissan alliance said the group doesn’t comment on rumours and speculation, while a spokesman for the French finance ministry declined to comment. Representatives for Yokohama, Japan-based Nissan and Renault also declined to comment.
 
 
