NEW DELHI: As lakhs of people descended on   for   celebrations on Monday afternoon,   stations were witness to near-apocalyptic scenes. Due to their proximity to the two locations, the Central Secretariat station saw massive  . Mandi House, Rajiv Chowk and Patel Chowk were badly affected as well. While on any given day, around 25 lakh people use metro for travelling, the ridership went up several notches on Monday, even as DMRC refused to divulge any details.

 According to traffic police, the capital roads saw several times the usual load in the afternoon — the situation wasn’t any better for Delhi Metro. The Central Secretariat station — an interchange point for Yellow Line (Samyapur Badli-Huda City Centre) and Violet Line (Kashmere Gate-Escorts Mujesar) — was the worst hit. Commuters could be seen standing in long queues and jostling with each other at the entry and exit gates. Travellers crowded the token vending machines, while many sat on the ground. “The station had become so crowded by 5pm that it was becoming difficult to even breathe. Some commuters started feeling uneasy and sat down on the floor due to exhaustion,” Anand Shrivastava, a commuter, said. “The trains were running at a very low frequency. There was so much rush that I had to skip a few before I could board one. People were pushing and shoving like crazy and it was really a case of the survival of the fittest,” he said.
 
  
  
 
 
 Many travellers said that entry to the Central Secretariat station was closed for some time due to the heavy rush in the evening. A   spokesperson, however, claimed that at no point was entry to the station closed. What added to the chaos was unavailability of other modes of transport, with buses and auto-rickshaws also being diverted from Central Delhi. Even app-based cabs were tough to come by, leaving metro the only viable option for many.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 While Shrivastava did manage to board a train after much struggle, many others were not as lucky. “There must have been more than a thousand people outside the station, waiting to enter. Just getting inside was a battle. It was claustrophobic,” Deepak Kumar, another commuter, said. “Most of those travelling by metro on Monday were not regular users and were queuing up to buy tokens as they didn’t have smart cards. As a result, queues at token counters and ticket vending machines were serpentine. After seeing the huge crowd inside, I lost the courage to travel by metro and decided to come out. The crowd was so huge that it took me 20 minutes to just leave the station,” he said.
 
 Sudipta Chakraborty, another hassled commuter TOI caught up with, said: “From outside Mandi House station, you could only see a sea of heads trying to climb down the stairs. Inside, it was total chaos, particularly on the platform where the Faridabad-bound trains arrive. Most commuters were finding it difficult to get tokens from the vending machines and there was no one from DMRC to help us out.”
 
 People complained that apart from the rush, trains were running at slow speed and the frequency was low too. They also said that trains were stopping at all stations for unusually longer duration. “I had to wait for 15 minutes to board a train from Vaishali around 4.30pm when, on a normal day, a train arrives every three minutes. The rush was unusual even though Vaishali is a terminal station and it is not difficult to find a seat there. Monday was quite different though,” said Manisha Sharma, a regular traveller.
 
 Roads in Noida and Ghaziabad, too, were choked with several vehicles moving bumper to bumper — and it wasn’t much of a surprise that stations in these locations were teeming with people. 
 
 
