CHANDIGARH: Raising the issue of ‘goonda tax’ allegedly being collected from Bathinda oil refinery contractors, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader   accused chief minister Amarinder Singh’s son   Singh of patronizing those extorting money. The government has categorically denied the allegations.

 Addressing a press conference on Monday,   said the charges of extortion of ‘goonda tax’ were levelled by two major companies undertaking construction work at the second phase of Bathinda oil refinery. He said Sam (India)   and owner of RMC plant Ashok Bansal have sent written complaints to the DC, SSP Bathinda and the chief justice of the high court. Khaira said as per their complaints there was a deep nexus between the mafia extorting money and politicians belonging to both the   as well as the Akali Dal.
 
 Khaira said unable to work under intimidating circumstances, owners of Sam India approached Jojo, brother-in-law of Manpreet Badal through Amarjeet Mehta of AP Millers Pvt Ltd, also involved in providing sand and gravel to the refinery. Following this, the local politician in question approached a very close aide of Raninder Singh Tikoo to keep his business flourish. “There are concrete reports that the CM’s son finally prevailed upon the Bathinda refinery authorities and the said construction company to allocate major sand gravel work to the local politician,” he alleged.
 
 Khaira alleged that a resident of Bangi Kalan in Talwandi Sabo was the main conduit collecting “goonda” tax at behest of his political masters, first the Akali leaders and now the Congress MLAs. Khaira said he claimed to be a Congress leader and was the brother of a sarpanch. Khaira also accused Congress MLA   of shielding the accused.
 
 “It is unfortunate that the extortion had been going on ever since the Bathinda oil refinery had been set up. However, the said ‘goonda tax’ snowballed into a major controversy when the politicians belonging to the ruling Congress party began severely arm twisting the companies and contractors,” he alleged.
 
 Khaira said since the needle of suspicion has been directly pointed towards the CM’s son, Amarinder Singh should order an impartial inquiry by the CBI or a sitting judge of the high court, to clear the charges. Khaira said company owners have also recorded calls where a person is intimidating them and claiming to have the backing of the CM house to collect “goonda” tax.
 
 Govt denies allegation
 
 An official spokesperson has denied allegations of Raninder’s involvement in the extortion racket. “The CM has already asked the DGP to look into the allegations of money extortion and the police was already acting on it. The allegations of the Congress shielding any accused are absolutely unsubstantiated and without any evidence,” said an official. Congress MLA Gurpreet Singh Kangar could not be contacted for comments.
 
 
