HYDERABAD: Municipal administration minister   said his father   will continue to be the chief minister of Telangana for another decade or so and he has no ambition to succeed him.

 
 KTR, who completed a decade in politics on May 16, told the media in an informal chit chat on Friday: “KCR is healthy and will serve the state for another 10 to 15 years. In fact, I may retire from politics before him. KCR is our slogan and his vision is our manifesto for the next elections,” he said and added that he would contest the next elections from the same   constituency that he represents as he is comfortable there. KTR reiterated that he would take political sanyas in case TRS does not win the 2019 polls.
 
 The minister hoped that TRS would bag majority in the upcoming gram panchayat elections. On Rythu Bandhu, KTR said the investment support scheme was one of the best schemes in the country. “There has been overwhelming response from farmers for this scheme compared to farm loan waiver,” he said. He dismissed the allegations of the   that it would benefit only large farmers. He said the large farmers comprise only 1.3% and majority are small and medium farmers. Some leaders have been asking investment support for tenant farmers, but that would lead to legal cases as there are chances of allegations that the government has recognised them as land owners. “Our land and revenue rules say if a farmer is tenant for consecutive 12 years, he has every right to claim the ownership,” KTR said.
 
 On encashment of cheques being given to farmers and serpentine queues at banks, he said, “Banks have lost the confidence of people because of several scams. Though there is threemonth time to encash, people are in a hurry. Leader of opposition K   also took cheques under Rythu Bandhu.”
 
 On the industries sector, he said the state government has been focussing on development of IT without waiting for funds from the Centre. He said a meeting would be organised with displaced people of Pharma City and their issues resolved if any.
 
 
