GURUGRAM: The much anticipated   at  , Sector 52, was finally inaugurated on Tuesday by the  , on the occasion of World   Day. The department has allocated Rs 3 crore for the project — a joint initiative with Gurugram-based NGO Uthaan.

 Spread across an area of 19 acre, 27 species of butterflies, including plain tiger, common emigrant, mottled emigrant, small gross-yellow, peacock pansy, lemon pansy, common pierrot, blue pansy, and great eggfly, can be spotted at the park, which has an outdoor and an indoor conservatory for butterflies. A special indoor conservatory has also been marked for the plain tiger.
 
 The park has both host plants and nectar plants to attract butterflies and help them flourish. 
 
 “Butterflies have a natural tendency to deliver eggs on some trees, while they use some trees and its flowers to get nourishment. 
 
 “The park has both such plants so that it works as a breeding centre as well as a home to them,” said Deepak Nanda, district forest officer, Gurugram.
 
 Reportedly, 150 species of trees and plants, including akwan (calotropis procera), ber, bel, chakunda, lemon, palm, kassia fistula, harsingar, morus alba and capparis, have been planted to attract butterflies.
 
 “While butterflies feed on the nectar of certain flowers, they breed on different species of plants, referred to as ‘host plants’. We have got these plants from Pune and Kolkata. We have a dedicated team and some experts to ensure that there is an adequate environment for butterflies to flourish,” said Sanjay Kaushik of Uthaan.
 
 Vivek Saxena, chief conservator of forest, said, “The park aims to restore natural environment for butterflies, as rapid urbanisation has eaten into their habitat. Butterflies play an important role in maintaining   balance. Their conservation is significant. The idea is to spread awareness about butterfly conservation and to connect people with nature.”
 
 “As the population of the city grows, we are witnessing a decline in biodiversity in it. One of our aims is to make the city greener. 
 
 “We have four special wings — city forest, city park, home greenery and water conservation — to focus on the environment,” said V Umashankar, CEO, Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA). He also assured that solar lights and solar pumps will be provided at the park. 
 
 The park was opened to public after the inauguration by the forest department on Tuesday.
 
 
