JOHANNESBURG: Barely 24 hours after he turned 34, the mercurial   pulled out of the first T20 International against India at the Wanderers on Sunday. There wasn’t a hint if he’d partied too long into the night.

 
 “Hey, that was meant to be a joke,” said a local journalist, grinning and yet surprised after getting to know only minutes before the start of the game that the batsman had opted out. “Oh, he’s been getting really frustrated lately because of the constant niggles and minor injuries. Something or the other,” he added.
 
 Minutes after the toss here on Sunday afternoon, one that South Africa won and elected to field, the team management sent out an official statement. “AB de Villiers, has been ruled out of the T20I series against India due to a left-knee injury. De Villiers suffered a blow to the knee the day before the sixth ODI at SuperSport Park, and has not recovered sufficiently to take part in the current three-match T20I series,” the statement read.
 
 Explaining it further, team doctor Dr Mohammed Moosajee, who also happens to be the team manager, added: “He suffered a blow to the knee while batting ahead of the sixth ODI, and although he passed a fitness test on Friday, the injury worsened significantly throughout the match. The   medical team has advised that he be given a period of rest and rehabilitation to make a full recovery ahead of the four-match series against Australia starting next month.”
 
 Staying fit against Australia will be important, given the importance of the contest.
 
 Yet, the challenges on hand, and the seriousness of the injury apart, each time AB has sat out of a game or a series or made a comeback in either of those, he’s gone on to become the talking point here. Right before the Test series between India and South Africa began last month, AB had made himself available and the hosts picked him — no questions asked, given the cricketer’s sheer genius and reputation — ahead of the young  .  , the South African skipper, would appear to break into a sweat each time he had to speak on selection.
 
 He’s privileged, say a section of those who refuse to identify with de Villiers’ constant walking in and out of the team, the official statement coming from CSA aside and the present context — of a T20 in focus and not Test cricket — notwithstanding. There’s genuine angst each time the much-talented cricketer takes a break.
 
 Yet, those who identify with AB’s ‘troubles’ say, he’ll be midway through 35 by the time he plays the 2019 World Cup.
 
 
