NAGPUR: The Nagpur University’s (NU) recently concluded three-day youth festival ‘Yuvarang 2018’ generated controversy after 18 girl participants belonging to   and a Katol college complained of partiality by judges and raised security concerns for them.

 The award distribution for the February 20 to 22 festival was held on Monday. The girls claimed that they were asked to report at the venue, Guru  , around 2pm while the event ended late in the evening during the festival last week.
 
 In their letter to the vice chancellor, they alleged, “The organizers had made no arrangements for girls and they were also not provided food. Many of them had come from out of the city and had to perform under gruelling conditions.”
 
 They alleged that only two judges were appointed in the jury while traditionally three persons have judged the event. “Only participants from two colleges are winning every year,” they said. The girls, led by   (NSUI) activists, staged a protest at NU main building and demanded an inquiry into the issue.
 
 NSUI’s Ajit Singh said vice-chancellor SP   has assured to probe the matter. Kane didn’t respond to TOI’s calls.
 
 An assistant professor from a city college trashed the allegations made by the girls. However, he admitted that arrangements were not up to the mark. “Generally, 25 colleges send entries. This time, 96 colleges were participating and the organizers were caught off guard when all the participants showed up,” he said.
 
 The teacher added that the DNC college team, which took part in tribal dance, had attempted a fusion while there was no such permission. “Only pure dance forms were allowed. Secondly, they complained that the judges were partial. The DNC team feels that it is the rightful claimant for the first prize,” he said.
 
 The teacher said the organizers had no option but to allow all teams to perform since most of them had come from outside the city and couldn’t be sent back. “Therefore, the event continued till late in the night,” he added.
 
 The inter-college festival is held every year by NU and students are encouraged to participate through their colleges in music, dance, drama, literature and fine arts.
 
 
