MUMBAI: The Directorate of   Education and Research has decided to scrap the entire   admission process across Maharashtra and start afresh, right from the choice-filling stage.

 Students admitted to government colleges met   on Wednesday, demanding that existing seat allotment must not be disturbed. They said fresh admissions must be conducted only in private colleges, for unfilled government seats and surrendered all-India quota slots. This cut no ice with DMER, though, which said the   process would not be fair and meritorious students would stand to lose. 
 
 
 
  
 
 The other factor playing on DMER’s mind is alteration of the fee ratio in private colleges, which may take these institutes out of reach for several candidates. 
 
 Picture this: Candidate A, not very high up in the NEET rank list to get into a government college, gave radiology at Somaiya Medical as the first  , orthopedics at MIMER Latur as second and microbiology at Grant Medical College as third. This student would have taken admission for microbiology as the two private colleges that had not opened their gates to students because of the fee dispute. 
 
 According to DMER, if candidates have the financial muscle and merit to join Somaiya or MIMER, then they should be given the choice to do so. Or, now private colleges have opened admissions and the candidate can get an upgrade, but these may be out of reach following a fee hike and thus improvement in terms of Option 2 or 1 may not be feasible.
 
 On the other hand, those allotted seats in government colleges now face the risk of falling off the list. This is because there would be students who had opted for private institutes but cannot afford them and they may be forced to opt for a less favoured stream in a government college. 
 
 The fee matter also took a turn with some private institutes informing DMER that they would charge lower fees for non-clinical courses and not follow the 1:4:5 ratio (merit:management:NRI). “Some colleges want to charge only twice the merit quota fee from management students for their non-clinical courses,” said Dr Pravin Shingare, head, DMER. “Under all such circumstances, it is only fair that students be allowed to rethink their choices and fill options again.”
 
 But students have threatened to move court as restarting admissions would contravene a ruling that state governments must release the first allotment list before the second list of the all-India quota. The admissions regulating authority is likely to meet CET commissioner and DMER on Thursday to take a final call on the issue. 
 
 
