MUMBAI: Manoj Yadav, a doctor, had a sinking feeling when he found his backpack open and his wallet missing after getting off a train at Andheri station. Later that day, he received a phone call from a stranger: not only had this man found his wallet, he was returning it with all his money, Rs 9,000, intact. Yadav was in disbelief till he met Yatin Naik. He learned that his wasn’t the only wallet the unassuming man had found and returned; he had been bringing succour to many for the past 10 years.

 Naik has been scouring the station area and   at Andheri, looking for   dumped by pickpockets after emptying them of cash. He has a trusted network of ragpickers, sweepers, beggars and gangmen who save discarded wallets and hand them over to Naik. The 53-year-old checks their contents to track down the owner.
 
 "I do it for the blessings and the smiles," said Naik, who lives in Khetwadi with his sister. . “Commuters are overjoyed at getting back their wallets. It’s not just about the money. People have memories attached to their belongings. They have pictures of their families, drawings made by their kids, besides government identity cards and ATM cards. Pickpockets don’t care for these,” said Naik, adding that Yadav was very lucky to get back his cash as he had wrapped it in a piece of paper.
 
 Recounting how he started off, Naik said he had landed in Andheri nearly 10 years ago to meet someone when he spotted a discarded wallet near a public tap. “I picked it up and soon found another wallet. This got me thinking. I wondered if I could start tracking down their owners on my own as the police are anyway overburdened with cases. I started looking for addresses on identity cards and dialling MTNL to get the commuter’s landline number. Sometimes, I would write letters to commuters,” he said. In Yadav’s case, Naik found a receipt in his wallet with his mobile number scribbled on it.
 
 To earn a living, Naik puts together an annual directory of sugar factories in the state. “I run around to gather advertisers and sponsors for the directory. But my heart lies in finding and returning commuters’ wallets. I dedicate three to four hours for it every single evening. There have been times when commuters touch my feet or start sobbing on getting their wallet back. At times, they call me back for help if a friend or relative has lost his wallet. I have limited resources and haven’t been able to venture out of Andheri,” he said.
 
 But not all his experiences are savoury. “There have been instances when commuters got their wallets back but not with all the contents intact. They vented their frustration on me. I promptly take these commuters to the police and ask them to intervene,” he said. Naik is a known face at the Andheri GRP outpost.
 
 On an average, he finds at least two lost or stolen wallets every day. Andheri has among the highest crime rates on Western   and with the Metro station coming up next to it, the volume of commuters has grown exponentially. Naik has been meticulously maintaining a record of all the commuters he has helped over the years and has ended up filling three large diaries with names, contact numbers and photographs. “It feels good to sit and go through the pages sometimes,” he said.
 
 
