BENGALURU: Anxious eyes waited for nearly an hour here at the   to get a glimpse of the Super Blue Blood Moon on Wednesday evening. Though the rare phenomenon took its time to unfurl, it didn’t deter space enthusiasts from witnessing the spectacle.

 At 7pm, the entire planetarium erupted in cheers as a perfect round, copper-red Moon unravelled before them. While some enjoyed the magical view through naked eyes, others turned to telescopes for the best view. “This is special because we will be able to see the Moon rise as it gets eclipsed by the Earth’s shadow. This isn’t something that happens during every eclipse,” said Pramod Galgali, the planetarium director.
 
 The last time the world witnessed this rare phenomenon was in 1982 and the next one will occur in 2037.
 
 Six telescopes and two binoculars were set up at the planetarium for the public to see the Moon up close. But those who didn’t get a chance at the telescope weren’t disappointed as the expert explained that the phenomenon could be seen through naked eyes too.
 
 Over 50 students from classes 5 to 9 of   School, Karur, Tamil Nadu, had visited the planetarium as well. “We came here on an educational trip to see Isro, Visvesvaraya Museum and witness the eclipse from the planetarium. We learned so much over the last few days here,” said Shashank M K, a Class 8 student.
 
 Geetha K G, a science researcher, who also calls herself an amateur astronomer, camped right beside a telescope and began explaining everything about the phenomenon that could be witnessed on Wednesday.
 
 “Blood moon, super moon and even blue moon are terms that have been coined recently. Yes, the Moon is closer to the Earth, but its actuality can’t be determined with the naked eye or telescope. To us, it will look like how the Moon looks every day, only red,” she said.
 
 Age was no bar for Vittala Rao K, a 75-year-old, who came to the planetarium with his entire family and waited patiently by the telescope to see the Super Blue Blood Moon. “I used to bring my grandchildren here when they were young. Today, being an apt day to visit the planetarium, I made sure that everyone in the family came early from work. These are places where science is made fun and interesting,” he said.
 
