It’s only been three weeks since he made up his mind to make a comeback to competitive rallying by taking part in the first round of the   (INRC), to be held in Chennai today and tomorrow. Sixty-one-year-old  , the former president of   (FMSCI), last raced way back in 2000. Since then he has been busy being a part of the racing administration and even managing his son Karun Chandhok’s motorsports career.
So, what triggered this comeback? “As we were upgrading the rally track at the   (MMRT), which we completed now, I started driving on it. I really enjoyed it. And couple of weeks ago, I happened to test this car which is an outstanding rally car. I got really fascinated as I was testing it. So, I asked if I could drive it and the manufacturers agreed. And that triggered the thoughts of making a comeback,” says Vicky.
 Ask him how it feels like to be a part of the competitive circle after so many years and he replies, “Eighteen years have gone by so fast. It looks like a lifetime in today’s life cycle (laughs).” He continues, “I don’t know what prompted this. I wasn’t even missing racing. I had totally given it up in 2000. I gracefully exited after winning the last event of my career. At that time, I had 358 trophies sitting on my table. After all that, I was very much involved in the administrative works.” 
 He says that the other racers, most of whom who’re half his age, are definitely going to give him a hard time during the rally. “The other day, while I was testing, I realised that these young guys, whom I call young turks, are so quick. Their physique is fantastic. So, it’s going to be really tough to keep pace with them. But it’s going to be fun. An hour of testing was real hard work for me; dehydration level was so high that I had to change at least five T-shirts. Then, I suddenly realised that I am not that young anymore. But I honestly believe that we (Vicky and his co-driver Chandramouli) will not be badly off the race; we will be about midfield.” But challenges aren’t only about catching up with the young guys, he says. “For over 20 years Manoj Dalal had been my co-driver. After that, I met my new co-driver, Chandramouli, only on Thursday morning. Also, I must say that while I was trying to put on the helmet and get inside the car, I was struggling with claustrophobia. These are challenges that you don’t even think of. During those days, when I was an active racer, I used to wear helmet all the time. Today, when I put on one, I feel claustrophobic. But I have to deal with it and I will. So, everything is a challenge. But it’s the never-say-die attitude is what that keeps me motivated.”
 
