Bengaluru: Senior   leaders have time and again embarrassed the party with foot firmly in the mouth. It was the turn of veteran M  , Member of Parliament, and his son Harsha Moily with their identical tweets late Thursday night. The tweet took a dig at the allocation of tickets for the assembly polls and claimed “road contractors dictating terms on party’s selection of candidates and their alleged nexus to PWD minister H C Mahadevappa”.

 The tweets were deleted from both accounts soon after they went viral, but the damage had been done. It, obviously, created a furore and father and son claimed their accounts were hacked. The senior Moily said in New Delhi that they could “never post anything anti-Congress”. However, neither of them had filed a complaint with the cybercrime police — or any police — till late Friday night. 
 
 “INC needs to solve money in politics. We can’t afford to have road contractors and their nexus with the state PWD minister determine how candidates are selected for the upcoming assembly elections,” the tweet read. It tagged AICC president Rahul Gandhi’s official twitter account and the official handles of the all India and Karnataka Congress.
 
 Chief minister Siddaramaiah, who was also in New Delhi to attend the AICC’s plenary meeting, defended Moily and Mahadevappa and dismissed the tweet. “When Moily himself has distanced and disowned the tweet, where is the need for it to be discussed?”   asked. The CM said KPCC working president Dinesh Gundu Rao had personally spoken to Moily and the senior Congressman had denied posting the tweet.
 
 The opposition tore in Moily, the ruling Congress. BJP state president B S Yeddyurappa, who saw the tweet late Thursday night, immediately replied: “At last someone’s conscience in @INCKarnataka prodded him to speak up! @moilyv ji is right. We have been saying that @siddaramaiah is #10PercentCM. With contractors filling PWD min's deep pockets, state's coffers & roads are in tatters. Congress veteran’s view validates our point.”
 
 Later, when Moily deleted the post, Yeddyurappa shot off: “Angst & discontent of old-timers in @INCKarnataka against @siddaramaiah is palpable. @moilyv ji may have been silenced for now but knowing #10PercentCM’s autocratic behaviour & shady dealings, muzzled voices will speak soon.” 
 
 Meanwhile, Yeddyurappa, who had been advertising the promise of “breaking news” on his social media accounts for two days, came a cropper on Friday.
 
 The ruling party launched a hashtag which read “BJP420” and a short video of newspaper stories which spoke of Yeddyurappa’s previous statements on the Lingayat issue and how he had left and re-joined the BJP.
 
 Finally, Yeddyurappa posted a five-minute video outlining the financial and economic failures of the Siddaramaiah government based on a comparative study of the economic survey and budget documents of the state for the last 10 years. 
 
 
