PATNA: It was a golden moment for the Mounted Military Police (MMP) of   after 25 years when its sub-inspector   won   medal at the 36th All India Police Equestrian Championship and Mounted Police Duty Meet, 2017, which concluded at the Veterinary College ground here on Sunday. Sardar Vallabh Bhai Patel National Police Academy’s (SVPNPA) emerged the overall champions with altogether 29 medals in the 10-day championship.

 Chief Minister   was the chief guest at the concluding ceremony and handed over the medals and trophies to the individual winners and the winning teams. The CM said police personnel should be encouraged to participate in various sports competitions for developing overall personality. “Five different sports competitions took place in Bihar in the last few years. The government will definitely allot more funds for encouraging sports in the state,” he said.
 
 The 20-member MMP team of Bihar Police won one gold, one silver and four bronze medals in the competition. The last time Bihar Police team had won a gold in equestrian championship was in 1992. Inspector Uma Singh became the first woman horse rider of state police to win a bronze medal in hacks event. Incidentally, it was for the first time that any woman from Bihar participated in the event.
 
 The SVPNPA team won 20 gold, five silver and four bronze medals in different categories of the championship organized in the state for the very first time.
 
 Meanwhile, the   (BSF) team was adjudged the winner of mounted police duty meet while it finished second overall in the championship. The BSF team won altogether 25 medals, including 12 gold, 10 silver and three bronze medals.
 
 BSF’s inspector   became the best rider of the championship for the fourth consecutive year while the BSF’s Chakori was adjudged the best horse. Singh received the trophy from CM Nitish. Later, he also felicitated the horse on the ground.
 
 The CM also awarded the overall champions trophy to the SVPNPA team members and gold medal to Bihar Police SI Hasan.
 
 Equestrian team of Punjab stood third, followed by Haryana,   and Indo-Tibetan Border Police (ITBP).
 
 In the Mounted Police Duty Meet, ITBP finished runners-up followed by SVPNPA, Rajasthan and Bihar.
 
 Altogether 274 horses from 17 teams of state police and CAPS and with more than 500 participants took part in the championship. Altogether 156 medals were at stake in the championship.
 
 
