NAGPUR: Heads have started rolling in the aftermath of the massive raids on cricket bookies at Bhandara by Nagpur rural police on Friday. Four personnel, including local police station in-charge, have been suspended, while SP of Bhandara Vineeta Sahu too is under scanner.

 A Special Investigation Team (SIT), under SDPO of Kanhan Ishwar Katkade has been formed to probe the betting case in which 17 people have been made accused.
 
 Police have seized material, including 230 mobile phones and more than Rs1 lakh cash, after busting the den at Mhada Colony in Bhandara. The case, registered at Bhandara police station, has been now shifted to Nagpur rural police with SIT taking it up on Monday formally.
 
 The tip-off was shared by addl DG (law and order) Bipin Bihari, who first relayed the information to Bhandara police but there was no response, following which he had to ask the Nagpur rural unit to conduct the raid.
 
 “The Bhandara police were repeatedly told to verify the information the police headquarters in Mumbai had been receiving about bookies having turned the district into a hub. We had to direct the Nagpur rural police to conduct the raid as there was action from Bhandara,” he said.
 
 Bihari also indicated the liability of the Bhandara polices’ Local Crime Branch (LCB) along with the personnel now being placed under suspension.
 
 “We have asked for the report from the probing team which would be forwarded to the DGP for his decision,” he said. Bihari indicated that the role of the Bhandara SP and the SDPO concerned would be ‘reviewed adversely’ as the unit in-charge cannot skip the liability of such a gross dereliction. “The manner and the scale in which the den was thriving is surprising,” said the senior IPS officer from Mumbai.
 
 IG (Nagpur range) Prakash Mukhtyal said explanations have been sought from the officials concerned. “The SIT has been already constituted to look into the various aspects of the racket,” he said. 
 
 Nagpur rural polices’ LCB in-charge Sanjay Purandhara and his team is engaged in conducting the probe under SDPO Katkade. The team is likely to seek an extension of the police custody remand of the 17 accused for detailed questioning.
 
 
