MADURAI/TRICHY: A 19-year old spectator was gored to death by a raging bull at the much-awaited jallikattu at   in Madurai on Monday, which also saw more than 25 people getting injured. Meanwhile, in   village, the most popular jallikattu arena in  , 22 bull tamers sustained injuries while attempting to tame bulls whooshing out of the vaadivasal.

 The deceased,  , was a mill worker of Sanarpatti in Dindigul district. He had come with a few of his friends to witness the event, the second this year after the one held at Avaniyapuram on Sunday.   sustained grievous injuries when the bull ploughed through the crowd at the collection point, where the owners take possession of their animals. He died on the way to the hospital.
 
 
 
 Kalimuthu is survived by his mother and a sister.
 
 Seven spectators, nine bull owners and an equal number of tamers were injured in the incident at Palamedu. However, Madurai district collector K   said that only 16 were injured and three among them were grievously hurt.
 
 Among the 490 bulls screened, only 459 were declared fit for the event and among them only 446 were released through the vaadivasal. Though there were more than 1,150 registered tamers, only 927 had turned up. Of them, 227 were rejected. Separated into seven sessions, 100 tamers were allowed to take part in each session. The event kicked off at 8am in the presence of revenue minister R B Udayakumar, president of Jallikattu Peravai P Rajasekar and convener of Animal Welfare Board of India jallikattu inspection team S K Mittal. District collector   and Madurai district superintendent of police N Manivannan supervised the event, which concluded by 3.30 pm.
 
 Veera Raghava Rao said the number of injured was considerably low as a result of the reduction in the number of tamers sent at a time.
 
 In Trichy, MP P   flagged off the jallikattu at Periya Suriyur in the presence of district collector K Rajamani and superintendent of police   Kalyan. The bull tamers were allowed in four batches of 150 each. Each of the batches was given 90 minutes to tame the bulls. No galleries were raised near the jallikattu arena. VIPs were made to sit on the roof-top of a building which was converted into a gallery.
 
 Suriyur village, which was witnessing jallikattu after three years, drew a crowd of nearly 25,000 people, according to the district administration. “But it wasn’t a pleasant experience for the spectators as goods carriers of tractors were lined up on either side to accommodate spectators. The raised platform for the mediapersons too was weak and couldn’t withstand the weight,” said S Muneeswaran, a spectator.
 
 One of the members from Sri Narkadal Ilaignar Peravai, which coordinated the event, said more than ?10 lakh was spent for the event. Close to 500 bulls and 600 bull tamers were registered for the jallikattu.
 
 The event left three bulls with minor injuries after they jumped out of the running area. Bulls were often seen charging into thorny bushes outside the designated area. Chaos prevailed after police resorted to a mild lathi charge to chase spectators out of the running area. For the first time, one of the bull tamers recieved the reward of a motorcycle for taming the maximum number of bulls during the event.
 
