New Delhi: There have been quite a few   in   that have  . These range from   to  . The pile-up has put the specialised units of Delhi   under severe strain. 

 This year, at least three sensational murders have had the police on their toes. On February 9, a businessman was killed in Malviya Nagar in south Delhi, days after he returned from the UK. Three days earlier, a Congress functionary and real estate businessman Vinod Mehra was gunned down on a busy flyover in northwest Delhi. Police suspect the south Delhi murder was due to personal rivalry and the Congress member was killed in road rage. 
 
 In January, a 30-year old man was shot dead in full public view at Prashant Vihar. Ravi Bhardwaj was shot 16 times in what was, according to the police, a gang war. Gangster Jitender Gogi is the prime suspect in the case.
 
 The list of unsolved murders is long. The brutal murder of a doctor inside St Stephen’s hospital is another case in point. The suspect in this case, another doctor, was identified but can’t be traced. He is suspected to have fled to Nepal or some spiritual place where he could be practising yoga, sources said.
 
 In October-end, businessman Pankaj Garg (35) and his accountant Harish Bhatia were shot dead while on their way to a bank. The killers then fled with a cash bag containing Rs 25 lakh. Garg’s driver and another staffer escaped with injuries. Police released sketches of the shooters and suspect the role of an outer Delhi gangster but haven’t made any breakthrough yet. 
 
 Other than the murders, there were cash van loots and ATM thefts that also haven’t been solved.
 
  In May and June last year, criminals on bikes attacked cash vans. At Bhalswa Dairy on June 23, such a van was attacked and its gunman shot. Rs 19 lakh was looted in this heist. There were also cases where entire ATMs were uprooted and taken away between October last year and January this year. Incidentally, a suspended crime branch policeman is a suspect. 
 
 Police sources said there was an urgent need to reshuffle officials in specialised units. While the special cell is mostly busy with documentation of surrenders of interstate criminals or filing chargesheets and collecting evidence in cases handed over to them by intelligence agencies, the crime branch seems to be focusing on routine arrests of petty criminals. Cracking the Jindal family murders, rescuing a kidnapped child and handling the Dhinakaran bribery case, have kept them occupied in the last one year. 
 
 
