BENGALURU: Tata Consultancy Services (TCS) not only touched $100 billion in market capitalization on Monday, but it also in the process overtook the market cap of  , a company whose revenue is almost twice that of  .

 
 IBM remains the No. 1 in the IT services market cap pecking order, but its market cap is only about 33% higher than that of TCS, though its revenue is more than 300% higher.
 
 Rod Bourgeois, head of research in US-based  , said that the root driver of TCS’s success is that it has built a position as the low-cost value player at scale – backed by the execution ability to maintain low costs while still delivering quality work. “This industry positioning by TCS supports good revenue growth, and this low-cost execution supports distinctive margins. Good growth plus distinctive margins over many years produces a huge market cap,” he said. 
 
 Some noted that TCS has a decentralised engine comprising of 12-15 industry service units that take calls on big deals without the interference of the top leadership.
 
 Phil Fersht, CEO of IT research firm HfS, said TCS has developed a very strong culture to win any deal in the world it wants. “The firm has stayed very focused on relentless execution and is less obsessed with marketing messages and trying to sound like everyone else. The firm has created its own individual identity, which many of the other service providers are struggling to do. I sometimes call TCS the `Indian IBM’ because of the longevity of its staff and unique culture,” he said.
 
 On TCS’s valuation being higher than that of Accenture’s despite lower revenue, Fersht said that’s because TCS’s core offering is managed services, whereas Accenture's is consulting. “When you calculate market caps, a managed services revenue dollar is always much higher than a consulting revenue dollar,” he said, noting that managed services revenue is ongoing, renewable, predictable and multi-year, while consulting involves one-time short period projects. Managed services business is much stickier and actually drives new consulting revenue too, Fersht said.
 
 Peter Bendor-Samuel, CEO of IT consulting firm  , however, wonders if TCS’s valuation premium would persist over the next few years. Accenture, he said, is further along than TCS in its move into the new digital marketplace. “We anticipate that it will be difficult for TCS to maintain its traditional margins in digital as the business model as we understand it seems likely to demand lower margins. However, if TCS is able somehow to maintain the margin premium by some combination of IP ownership, and digital labour arbitrage, then it will be able to maintain its equity premium,” he said.
 
 Bourgeois too said the big fundamental challenge for TCS over the long run would be to sustain its impressive operating margin of 25%.
 
 
 
 “It is a very proud moment for all of us. TCS has been able to create value consistently by making the right investments not only in terms of technology, but also in terms of creating capabilities, building leadership and talent, seeding new markets and developing scalable world-class solutions.”
 
 
 
