BHOPAL: Taking a cue from a crime serial aired on television, a 32-year-old   with his fiancee from his cell phone to blackmail him and extort money. Though the incident took place around four months back, the victim lodged a complaint with the police on Monday. 

 Complainant Hari (name changed) said that the accused Sunil Raghuwanshi, a Class 12 dropout, had been extorting money from him for the last four months.
  
  
 He alleged that the accused downloaded some of the intimate videos discreetly after borrowing his cellphone for a while and blackmailed him. 
 
 Sunil and his wife Anamika, 29, a post graduate hail from Nateran in Vidisha. Sunil works with a private factory in   and the couple resides in Gayatri Nagar. 
 
 "After stealing intimate videos and photographs, the couple started threatening Hari and sent messages on victim's WhatsApp using different numbers, to hide their identity. They demanded a sum of Rs 5 lakh from him and threatened him to share the videos/photographs on social media platforms if he fails to meet their demand," said Sunil Shrivastava, the SHO of Ashoka Garden police station. The cop said that the 24-year-old complainant, a resident of Semra Kalan in Ashoka Garden, works at a factory in   area. He said that he was engaged to a girl some six months back and is about to get married soon.
 
 Hari told the caller that he does not trust him and denied to pay the money. But he was shocked when the unidentified caller soon forwarded two videos on his WhatsApp number in which he and his fiancee were seen in compromising position.
 
 Hari got terrified on watching the videos as only he and his fiancee knew about those videos. Subsequently, he called the accused and agreed to his demand. He told the caller that he does not have enough money and promised to pay him Rs 2 lakh. The caller then told him that he would inform him the time and place to deliver the money next day.
 
 Meanwhile, Hari approached Ashoka Garden police and informed them about the incident. The caller then made a call on Hari's mobile number and asked him to send the video and photographs of cash on WhatsApp to ensure that he has the said amount. Police then made bundles of money keeping currency notes on two sides of the cash stack with scrap papers inside. Police then laid a trap to nab the accused.
 
 Hari forwarded the video of cash on the accused's mobile after which he asked him to come to Imli Mata Mandir located in the industrial area to deliver money. Police personnel in civil dress went to the spot in advance.
 
 Hari went to the spot with the cash at the decided time where a man and a woman came to meet him. After a brief conversation, when he handed over the cash to the accused, the cops present at the spot nabbed them. Their mobile phone and SD card containing the victim's videos and photographs were seized. Sunil told police that he knew Hari for the past few years. Around four months back, he took Hari's mobile phone on the pretext of sending an email and asked him to open the mobile's pattern lock. While going through his gallery, he found his private videos. Later, he transferred Hari's private videos to his phone.
 
 He showed the videos to Anamika, who is an avid viewer of crime serials aired on television. Apparently, the couple is going through a rough financial patch and Anamika suggested him to blackmail Hari and extort money which they would use to repay their loan. "She was the one who sent threat messages to Hari on WhatsApp using unidentified numbers," said the police. Police registered a case against the accused on charges of extortion under relevant sections of IPC and arrested them.
 
 
