CHANDIGARH: A nine-month-old boy died and three others sustained injuries when two groups clashed over an alleged incident of   in   on Wednesday evening. 

 According to sources, both sides had pelted stones and fired at each other and it took at least one hour for the police to control the situation.
 
 Body of the infant has been handed over to his parents after postmortem examination. Police have registered cases of murder and attempt to murder and outraging the modesty of women against members of both groups.
 
 “As of now both groups are busy. While one group is busy in performing the last rites of the infant, the other is busy in attending to two of their members who had suffered injuries in the assault and have been hospitalized. We have formed two teams to verify statements given by both sides,” said Rohtak deputy superintendent of police (city)   Kumar.
 
 He added that all those involved in creating law and order problem would be arrested. He also denied any delay in police action.
 
 According to the cops, a case had been registered on the complaint of the child’s maternal uncle   against 18 persons while Sanjay and his kin have been booked for attempt to murder and for outraging the modesty of a woman.
 
 Sources said that the altercation began when a woman relative of Sanjay alleged that some boys of the opposite party had made lewd passes towards her. Accompanied by other members from her side, she had gone to a place in their locality for mediation.
 
 On reaching there both groups got into scuffle. Sanjay alleged some members of the other group attacked his sister Jyoti, who was feeding her nine-month-old child in her lap. He alleged that one of the attackers had gagged the infant’s mouth.
 
 On the other hand, a member of the murder accused family alleged that couple of boys from Sanjay’s side had made passes towards his elder brother’s wife. He alleged as they went to complain about the incident to Sanjay when the latter attacked them and opened fire on them as well.
 
 DSP Ramesh said one bullet fired from a weapon allegedly owned by the deceased boy’s maternal uncle had hit a refrigerator.
 
 
