Tirupur: Four common effluent treatment plants (CETP) in the city are awaiting reports from   and   to increase utilization of their capacities.

 The Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board ( ) would take into account the evaluation of either of those two pioneer technical institutes on capacities of the CETPs before allowing them to increase the utilization.
 
 As many as 18 CETPs are functioning to assist more than 350 dyeing units to treat coloured water as part of zero liquid discharge (ZLD) norm in Tirupur district, apart from more than 100 individual effluent treatment plants.
 
 A TNPCB official said, “The CETPs would have been established to handle the industrial effluents to certain capacities but they would not have installed all the required equipment and ensured infrastructure, to achieve the capacity target, as mentioned in their respective detailed project reports (DPR). It should be known that they have required machineries for primary and secondary treatment processes, and also reject management system. So, it needed the intervention of the technical experts to evaluate their current capacities. Hence, the services of AU and IIT-M became obvious.”
 
 The CETPs would obtain the evaluation reports from the institutes and submit them to TNPCB, which would further inspect before finalizing the utilization of their capacities. 
 
 Among CETPs, the utilization of the capacities allowed was ranging from 15% to 90%. Arulpuram CETP in   and Park CETP in Angeripalayam were the two facilities allowed to operated 90% of their capacities, said the official.
 
 Four CETPs are waiting for reports from AU and IIT-M, which have completed the evaluation process in respective facilities, and soon, they are likely to submit the same before TNPCB, said the sources.
 
 Meanwhile, Tirupur MP   has urged the central government to make ZLD norm mandatory in all textile clusters throughout the country.
 
 The MP met Union environmental minister Harsh Vardhan and emphasized its importance to minimize the impact on the environment. She also underlined that because of the absence of ZLD system in other parts of the country, the dyeing sector in Tirupur textile cluster, which was the first to have the system in place, was suffering without level playing field.
 
 In a letter submitted to the Union minister, Sathyabama said, “The implementation of 18 CETPs in Tirupur is not only protecting the environment but also provide recycled water for the public. The ZLD system was made possible with contribution of Rs 700 crore interest-free loans/grant from the central and state governments. The industrialists themselves pumped in additional Rs 370 crore to implement the system.”
 
 “Since the implementation of ZLD is not mandatory in other parts of the country, their processing cost is 15% less what it is at Tirupur. Hence the dyeing sector in the dollar city is affected badly and ‘penalized’ for implementing the CETPs to protect the environment and reduce pollution,” she said.
 
 In order to create a level playing field in the dyeing sector, the Union government should make the ZLD system mandatory across the country, she mentioned.
 
 
