NAGPUR: Decks have been cleared to hand over 100 acres of land to   (LMEL) for setting up a sponge iron plant in Gadchiroli. The plant, if materialized, would be the first major industrial unit in the   district. The land is expected to be transferred to the company by mid-February, after it pays the cost which comes to around Rs5 crore.

 LMEL has an iron ore mine in   area of Gadchiroli, which is also the only venture of its scale in the district. The sponge iron plant at   within the district is planned to be run on the ore extracted from Surjagarh. There have been demands from local organizations that if LMEL wants to mine iron ore from Surjagarh then the material has to be processed in a plant set up within the district itself.
 
 Lloyds already has a plant with 1000 MT capacity at Ghuggus in neighbouring Chandrapur district, which uses iron ore procured from the open market.
 
 “With all the formalities done, now the company needs to pay Rs5 crore towards the land cost to the state government. It is expected that the transfer may take place in mid-February,” said a source involved in the process.
 
 Sources in Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC) confirmed that rest of the procedure has been done and now the payment was awaited from LMEL.
 
 Sources say this is a matter of formality. With the amount not being big as compared to the total project cost of Rs700 crore, the company is expected to be making the payment soon. There are plans to start construction on the plot by March, said sources.
 
 The proposed plant at Aashti will be entirely depending on iron ore extracted from Surjagarh mines. Full-fledged operations have not begun yet mainly for want of security in the Naxalite-infested area. Two years ago,   had torched the company’s vehicles and in 2013 an officer of the vice-president’s rank was killed by the outlaws.
 
 Even as the company is ready to take up the land, there is also a concern that it should be able to start full operations in the mines also.
 
 “There is a plan to invest Rs700 crore in the Aashti plant. However, if iron ore is not available then it may end up being a dead investment,” said a source involved in the development.
 
 Sources say in the month of January, iron ore could be transported out of the mine only for seven days. The ore is transported under police protection on account of the Naxalite threat. The transport is done as and when force is available and the dates are decided mutually by the company and the police, said a source. Permanent posts will be set up only after a road leading out of the mine is constructed. The work is under way.
 
 “The plant at Aashti will be needing as much as 50,000 tonne a month and another 75,000 tonne for the Ghuggus plant. The latter can run on ore procured from the market but the Aashti plant will be needing supplies from Surjagarh itself,” said a source.
 
 “The situation has improved gradually and the police presence has increased too. But the frequency of transport of ore has to increase,” the source said.
 
 
