NEW DELHI: Chief minister   is going to march to LG Anil Baijal's office from his residence along with his council of ministers and AAP MLAs on Monday to discuss the   project. Deputy chief minister   said this in a press conference on Saturday. 

  Kejriwal tweeted that he would walk en masse to the   at 3pm and urge him "not to follow BJP's directions and to allow CCTV cameras to be installed all over Delhi to strengthen women's security". Later in Bawana, Kejriwal repeated this at a function and warned the LG that people of Delhi would come to his doorstep if the project is obstructed. 
 
  Sisodia wrote to the LG that the delegation would come to meet him at 3pm, and if it is not convenient, he could suggest some other time that day. 
 
  When asked about allegations made by Delhi Congress president   that the AAP government has compromised national security by awarding the CCTV camera contract to a Chinese company, Sisodia said, "Those who couldn't do anything for 15 years are now saying this." 
 
  He also said the AAP government would soon expose how some companies not getting the tender to install CCTV cameras have been actually troubling "some people". 
 
  The tender was given to   (BEL) and the Chinese company is a vendor of BEL. It has already been clarified that the government had no role in it. 
 
  On Thursday, the AAP government had called a high-level committee formed by the LG illegal. Principal secretary (home) Manoj Parida was also asked by PWD minister   not to proceed with it. 
 
  Sisodia said ever since he was an activist he had felt the need for CCTV cameras in Delhi. "That is why it was part of our manifesto and we had said that RWAs and women would decide where these CCTV cameras would be installed," he said. 
 
  Sisodia said that for three years the LG had not said anything, but now that a PSU has been selected for the job, he is trying to stop it. "Many RWAs have come and met us as they were expecting that now CCTV cameras would be installed in their areas," he said. 
 
  The deputy CM said the installation of CCTV cameras has become important due to the increase in car thefts, snatchings and other crimes in residential areas. He said that RWAs and market associations are willing to spend their own money to install such cameras. "There is a lot of anger among the people of Delhi that CCTV cameras are not getting installed," he said. 
 
  Sisodia also said that the LG was "worried" because an AAP government project would be successful. "Resolving the issue is very important since all preparations have now been made and we will ask the LG not to stopthe project now," he said. 
 
 
