BHAGALPUR/SAHARSA: Muslim men and women took to the streets in   and Saharsa on Wednesday to protest against the Muslim Women Protection of Rights on Marriage Bill, which criminalises instant ‘triple talaq’.

 In Bhagalpur, the rally passed through the busy thoroughfares of the town. Later, some of the leaders submitted a memorandum to the district magistrate. 
 
 The Muslim Women Protection of Rights on Marriage Bill proposes a three-year jail term for a Muslim man who divorces his wife via talaq-e-biddat (instant triple talaq). The bill has been passed by  , but is yet to be passed by   to become a law. The Supreme Court has set aside instant ‘triple talaq’ or ‘talaq-e-biddat’ as a "manifestly arbitrary" practice. It also aims to provide subsistence allowance to Muslim women from her husband besides entitlement to seek custody of her minor children. 
 
  of Khankah Shahbazia Mufti Farooq Aalam Asharfi said, “The Bill is against the Shariat and against the Muslim personal law.” Lauding the rally taken out by Muslim women and men, Asharfi said they would intensify their stir at the state and national level in order to pressurize the Central government to withdraw the bill that is likely to trigger more problems in Muslim families.
 
 Meanwhile, thousands of women wearing burqa in Saharsa took out a silent protest march near the collectorate on Wednesday to protest against the triple talaq bill.
 
 It was for the first time in Kosi region that such a large number of Muslim women, mostly from the rural areas, had come out of their houses and participated in a stir. The protest march was surprisingly an all-woman affair as no male members were allowed to interfere. However, some enthusiastic male activists were seen cordoning the area by forming a human chain. Women protesters who had come from distant villages and gathered at the Patel Maidan here only displayed placards which read.. "talaq bill wapas lo”, “shariyat me hastakshep band karo”, “triple talaq bill will ruin family and society,” etc.
 
 Some prominent women leaders associated with ‘Islah-e- Muashra’ and ‘Tahaffuj -e-Shariyat’, including Hina Farooqui, Kokab Sultana, Mahjabi Naaj, Sophia Parween addressed the rally before submitting a memorandum to the Saharsa DM which was addressed to the President of India. 
 
 Meanwhile, an auto-rickshaw carrying women protesters from Bhelaahi village under Mahishi block turned turtle resulting in serious injuries to six women.
 
 
