JAIPUR: Taking advantage of the ambiguity in the Rajasthan Private   Act, 2017, private schools in the city have raised the annual fee by up to 27%.

 The astronomical rise in fees has left parents in a financial soup. But, what is shocking is, unbeknown to parents, the new fee has been decided in ‘consultation’ with them.
 
 
  
 
 As per the Act, the fee is decided in every school by a 10-member school fee committee which includes five parents, three teachers and two representatives from the school administration.
 
 The committee proposes the hike after considering the expenses, facilities, teachers’ qualification, etc. Sources said that the state expected to restrict the yearly rise between 5% and 8%.
 
 But most of the schools have raised the fees above the maximum, with BVB Vidhyashram increasing it by a whopping 27%.
 
 The annual fees for classes I to 5 jumped from Rs 68,000 in 2017-18 to Rs 84,000 in 2018-19. TOI repeatedly called up the school to speak to the principal but received no response.
 
 Parents said that they feel cheated about the hike approved by the school-level fee committee for the new academic session.
 
 The Act says that every school has to form a Parent –Teacher Association (PTA), with five if its members picked through lottery for the fee committee.
 
 The names of members in the committee have to be displayed on the notice board within a period 15 days from the formation of the committee.
 
 But when TOI spoke to parents of students studying in various schools, they expressed ignorance about the formation of any such committee.
 
 Anubha Goyal, a mother of two children studying in classes 4 and 9 at BVB Vidhyashram, was not aware about the role of parents in deciding the fees. “The hike is not justifiable. The facilities they provide to our children are very minimal. The furniture is broken and tears the uniform. Even big classrooms have only two fans which make it unbearable for our children. I have complained many times to the authority, but no action has been taken,” she said.
 
 According to the Act, the PTA has to meet before August 15 and the school-level fee committee has to meet once every three months. None of the parents that TOI contacted have been invited for the general meeting or informed about the fee committee.
 
 What is more surprising is that many schools have not formed the committee due to objections while others due to ignorance. Sarita Katiyar, principal of Ryan International School, Mansarovar, said the school has not formed the fee committee. “I am not aware of constituting any committee for fee fixing,” said Katiyar. TOI repeatedly called  , the principal of Cambridge Court High School, to enquire about fee hike but received no response.
 
 With tension mounting between parents and schools over the issue, sparks are set to fly at the start of the next academic session.
 
 
 
