KOLKATA: The   ( ) has decided to ban, from Thursday, the sale of all frozen meat and dead chicken at the 25-odd markets managed by the civic body in the city.

 
  
  
 
 A number of raids conducted by several government agencies since the carcass meat racket broke revealed that many traders had been selling dead chicken and rotten meat
 
 in several markets, including New Market. Now, the civic body is taking steps to address the issue by taking stern steps against rule-violators.
 
 Sources in the civic body said anybody found selling the banned meats will have their trade licence revoked. Officers of the KMC’s market department will start despatching the notice to markets in phases from Thursday. “We are banning the sale of all types of frozen meat, irrespective of brand, and dead chicken at all markets run by the KMC. The notices to this affect will start reaching the markets from Thursday,” said Amiruddin, MMiC, market department.
 
 It was in the second week of April that cops had stumbled on a racket where carcass meat was being mixed with fresh meat and being send to cold storages.This meat was then sold in the market. Further investigation revealed that the sale of dead chicken was becoming the norm in many markets.“Raids by the KMC, enforcement branch and the health department revealed that such meat was being sold in proper markets in the city including New Market. It is in this context that we have taken the decision. Any trader found flouting this will lose the trade licence,” said Amiruddin.
 
 Atin Ghosh, MMiC of the health department, has said that all departments of KMC shouldwork closely with tyhe cops to keep strict vigil throughout the year. “This is a huge racket, one that has really scared the people. What we want to do now is to maintain strict vigil throughout the year to quell citizens’ fears. For this, we need a coordinated effort from various KMC departments and the police. We are planning to form a special team, which will only visit markets and ensure that only fresh meat is sold,” Ghosh said.
 
 Earlier this week, KMC officials raided and found frozen meat in an outlet of a fast food chain in  . “The meat has been sent for tests. We have also collected samples of momo and packets of frozen meat from different places,” said an official.
 
 A distributor of a frozen meat company said the KMC order would hit their trade further. “Business has taken a big hit since the racket was busted. The ban on frozen meat in civic markets will hurt us further,” said a representative.
 
 
