HYDERABAD: Former India captain   yet again had to face “humiliation” at the hands of   (HCA) officials as he was made to stand outside for more than an hour before being allowed to attend the Special General Meeting (SGM) at RGIC Stadium here on Sunday morning.

 Chaos prevailed with members agitating against president Dr G Vivekanand’s decision to bar Azhar from the meeting. There was high drama as the members questioned Vivek about it. After about an hour of shouting and intervention by   leader   (who squatted in front of the dais and said he will not allow the meeting to start if Azhar was not allowed inside), former BCCI interim president and Test player   and other members, Vivek relented and allowed Azhar to attend the meeting.
 
 “When there was a ban, I did not enter HCA and since BCCI has cleared me, you cannot stop me from attending the meeting,’’ Azhar said.
 
 At the end of the day, yet another attempt to get the Lodha panel recommendations passed at SMG hit a roadblock even though president Vivek claimed it was “unanimously passed”.
 
 Mohd   with Shivlal Yadav during HCA's SGM
 
 
 
 
 Sources said the president walked out of the meeting after not even half a dozen members raised their hands in favour of adopting the reforms even as the rest, of the more than 170 members, said they needed more clarity and transparency in the affairs of the association. The members also demanded that fresh elections be held as soon as possible as Vivek had lost confidence of the house.
 
 Sources said the purpose of the meeting was defeated despite the attempts of the ruling group to get their agenda passed. “We have the video of the meeting. We will send it to the   and BCCI officials. They cannot cheat and say they have passed the Lodha reforms,’’ said Azhar.
 
 “Everything in HCA has become undemocratic. We are making efforts to clean up the mess. Many leagues are stopped abruptly without reason,” Azhar said as he hit out at the office-bearers. He reiterated his charge that Vivek was not eligible to be the president as he had a serious conflict of interest.
 
 “No one can question my loyalty to Hyderabad and to HCA. I am here to give back something to the game. I don’t want players to suffer. I am thankful to all members who helped me attend the meeting after I was prevented from doing so initially,” he said.
 
 Shivlal also expressed dissatisfaction over the current state of affairs in HCA. “It was unfortunate a former Test captain was treated so badly by the officials. We will take it up with the higher levels in BCCI and inform them about the state of affairs in HCA,” he said.
 
 “If the ruling body doesn’t do it (call for elections), the members will agitate. The amendments were not done in a democratic way and all members should be taken into confidence,’’ said Yadav.
 
 Hanumantha Rao said HCA was converted into a TRS association and that Vivek had given just Rs 4 crore or so but gained more than 10 times in return. “He is not satisfied and wants Rs 35 crore more from HCA through the arbitration. Corporate houses fund sports and sportspersons but Visakha is looting HCA,” he said.
 
 Former international players SL   and Noel David too attended the SGM, while former president   chose to skip the meeting.
 
