Ludhiana: Three days after a retaining wall of the Gill Chowk Flyover collapsed, reportedly because rats had eaten into its foundation, the municipal corporation on Wednesday moved a garbage dump from the site as it had been attracting the rodents.

 The step was taken on a day the company which had constructed the flyover offered to repair the damaged wall, even as jams continued to be the order of the day for commuters.
 
 A team of the NHAI and engineers of the firm, Deepak Builders, inspected the collapsed wall. Though the NHAI is yet to approve the technique to be used for repairing the wall, MC officials said it will take 15-20 days to finish work.
 
 The dump’s new location, however, came under criticism from locals, as they said it was moved to a green belt located right next to a residential area.
 
 Residents and shopkeepers in the area said the dump’s new location would now affect people’s health. A resident, Surinder Singh, said the MC would now “completely ruin” an area meant to be developed into a green belt. He added that the MC was in the process of installing a tube well at the same location. “It has already bored a hole for supplying the water. The garbage could pollute even the water supply,” he said. “We will not let the MC do this.”
 
 A former councillor of the Congress, Parminder Soma, too opposed the new location of the dump. “Why is it that they could not find a better place to dump trash?” he said.
 
 MC commissioner Jaskiran Singh said the dump would shifted again. “Nobody has been allowed to throw garbage in a green belt or near a residential area,” he said.
 
 Commuters, meanwhile, continued to face traffic problems due to the closure of a part of the flyover. Route diversions have not been of help either.
 
 Get the Army for repairs: BJP
 
 BJP district vice-president Parminder Mehta, while handing over a memorandum to deputy commissioner Pardeep Kumar Agrawal, demanded the MC to consult the Indian Army for repairing the bridge. “Army will repair the bridge in a day and the city be relieved,” he said.
 
 
