KOZHIKODE: For centuries, tribal farmers of   have been silently donning the role of guardians of the grain by protecting indigenous rice varieties which have been fast becoming extinct following the shift to high-yielding varieties. 

 Now, the state agriculture department has stepped in to lend a helping hand to help the farmers to conserve the traditional rice cultivars, realizing their importance in nutritional security as well as to stem the erosion of rice genetic diversity in the state.
 
 Under the project drawn up by the department to make the district a special agricultural zone for traditional rice varieties along with floriculture, infrastructural and irrigation facilities would be spruced up to revive cultivation of native rice varieties.
 
 "Wayanad is the only place in the state where a significant number of native rice varieties are still being cultivated. Under the project, the government will procure the traditional rice varieties at premium prices from them and will also set up a facility to process and market the rice. We have earmarked Rs 3 crore for the purpose this fiscal," agriculture minister V S Sunil Kumar said.
 
 He added that steps are underway to take GI registration for five more rice varieties native to Wayanad.
 
 Many of these rice varieties are highly resilient against climate- change and are highly stress-tolerant apart from having aromatic and medicinal properties. Wayanad used to have highly diverse rice varieties numbering around 105, which have now reduced to around 40, out of which less than 10 are now extensively cultivated.
 
 To set the ground for the rice conservation programme, 52 students from the College of Agriculture, Padannakkad, along with officials of the department, will conduct a survey to identify and document the rice varieties and cultivation practices from February 15 to 20. They will collect specific details, including the nutritional value, size, and colour of the varieties and pest resistance qualities if any.
 
 A directory of farmers engaged in the cultivation of indigenous rice varieties will be published and their cultivation practices will be documented.
 
 Principal agricultural officer P H Meherban said currently speciality varieties, including the scented Jeerakashala, Gandhakashala and medicinal rice variety of Njavara are being cultivated in 390 hectares by farmers and the government had provided Rs 39 lakh to them last fiscal. "Now, we have proposed to extend the financial incentive of Rs 10,000 per hectare to farmers cultivating the traditional rice varieties," she added.
 
 Dr P Rajendran, associate director of research at   (RARS) at Ambalavayal in Wayanad said tribal farmers of Wayanad, especially belonging to the Kurichiya and Kuruma tharavadus, have been the custodians of valuable rice gene pools which they have been conserving despite all odds.
 
 National award-winning tribal farmer Cheruvayal Raman who conserves around 35 rare rice varieties in his 1.5 acre field said he was incurring a loss of around Rs 50,000 every paddy season.
 
 "We know that if we stop farming, these native varieties will be lost forever. The government's decision to implement a special scheme to support farming of traditional rice varieties would help preserve the remaining varieties for the next generation," he added. 
 
 
