PUNE:   and   used their precious Right-to-Match cards to pick up   and   respectively from the auctions. The two West Indians, over the years, have been crucial cogs in the wheels of the two most successful franchises in the competition. 

 
 
 
 But things have changed quite dramatically this year.
 
 While Dwayne Bravo has been his usual magnificent self for CSK both with bat and ball, Pollard has hardly come up with the goods. While sources suggested that the burly West Indian had told the MI management that he won’t bowl this season, his batting returns of 28, 0, 5, 21 and 9 have been far from satisfactory. He hasn’t looked his fittest and the arrogance and the power that were hallmarks of his batting have been strangely missing.
 
 Aditya Tare, Pollard’s MI teammate, sprang to the West Indian’s defence saying he is only getting chances to bat towards the end. However, it’s not true for the Sunrisers Hyderabad match that the team lost so dramatically. All Pollard had to do was guide the MI ship home with 10 overs to go, but he failed miserably.
 
 While   is being seriously considered as a replacement, the West Indian did bat for quite a while at the nets on Friday. Even if MI decide to persist with him against CSK given Pollard’s experience to pull off stunning wins, it could well be his last chance. “It’s a hard decision for the MI management to take but they have to do it sooner rather than later,” a source close to the developments said. His West Indian teammate Bravo, on the other hand, has been nothing short of sublime. It all started with his match-winning innings against Mumbai Indians in the first game and he just hasn’t stopped.
 
 “That innings of Bravo is one of the best T20 innings I have seen. In fact, I had given up on that match when Bravo came up with that innings. And he has kept on doing it,” CSK bowling consultant Eric Simmons said, highlighting the West Indian’s match-winning inputs against Kolkata Knight Riders and RCB under extreme pressure.
 
 Bravo also remains MS Dhoni’s go-to bowler at the death, coming up with those yorkers and knuckle balls that have been very difficult to deal with. “And it’s not just about Bravo’s batting and bowling. He is a brilliant mentor for our younger lot. Bravo keeps talking to them, giving them inputs on how to go about things and that make a lot of difference,” Simmons said.
 
 Not that Pollard is a bad mentor either. But it’s his performances with the bat that Mumbai need so desperately at the moment. And the fact that Bravo is doing the job so wonderfully in this   could just be the stimulus that spurs Pollard on to deliver on Saturday. Provided he gets the chance!
 
 
