NAGPUR:   and   titles were synonymous to each other in age categories. Three years after the injury layoff, Mallika made a comeback and showed everyone that she still knows how to win a national title, this time in the senior level. 

 On Tuesday, City's table tennis queen once again reminded everyone about her skills and talent when she brought home her first individual medal in the senior nationals. Mallika walked away with a bronze medal in the 79th Senior National Table Tennis Championship which concluded at Ranchi, Jharkhand. Before being operated for her shoulder, Mallika in 2014 won a doubles silver in the senior nationals.
 
  
  "Feels really good after winning my first individual medal at the senior level. I am very much happy to win this bronze as this medal will surely boost my confidence specially after losing in the second round last year and a three-year injury layoff," Mallika told TOI from Ranchi.
 
 Having played three qualifying rounds, Mallika made it to the main draw of 128 paddlers from across the country and after a couple of upset victories the unseeded city player suffered a heartbreak 3-4 defeat to second seed   in the semifinals. The last four clash between Mallika and Manika went down the wires as the city girl lost the decider 10-12. 
 
 "A rush of blood from my end, however, denied me a victory in the deciding game and Manika sealed the fate of the match," the 22-year-old said. Manika won 11-9, 8-11, 11-8, 9-11, 4-11, 11-5, 12-10.
 
 Mallika, who represented Indian in the Youth Olympics in 2010 and also won a team gold for Asia in the World championships, has set a target of improving her performance in the coming year. She said, "Since I recorded a podium finish this year, I feel with more hard work next time I can win the yellow metal. Also I will look to improve my ranking by participating in international tournaments representing my club in Germany."
 
 In the quarterfinals, Mallika outclassed   of RBI 11-7, 4-11, 11-4, 11-8, 11-5 with ease to become the only Maharashtra paddler to reach the last four stage of the nationals. 
 
 In the pre-quarterfinals, Mallika surprised seed No 5 Divya Deshpande of PSPB 13-11, 11-8, 11-3, 7-11, 11-9. Mallika trains regularly in Germany under internationally acclaimed coach Peter Engel, however, utilized her experience well to tame the challenge of seasoned campaigners - Riti Shankar of Haryana 4-1,   of Tamil Nadu 4-0 and RBI's Harsh Vardhini 3-0 - with ease.
 
 Earlier Mallika played in the group of 48 in the qualifying round and was no match for Chandigarh's   3-0, Shaik Muntaz Begum of Andhra Pradesh 3-0 and Delhi's Sabhya Gupta 3-0.
 
 A former national champion in the cadet, sub-junior, junior and youth girls' category, Mallika learned the basics at   under her father Advocate   who has single handedly brought Nagpur on the international table tennis map.
 
