PUNE: Forget about your chains and purses, even fire extinguishers are not safe in   buses.

 A day after a PMPML bus burst into flames on   on Thursday, senior officials of the public transport utility said their vehicles were prone to theft of fire extinguishers for want of sufficient and secured parking space.
 
  
  
 
 When asked about the number of thefts of the fire-fighting equipment, the officials said they would be able to give this information after a meeting scheduled on Saturdasy. The meeting will be attended by the technical team of the transport body, private contractors and other officials.
 
 Shivaji Jadhav, chief engineer of PMPML, said, “The meeting on Saturday has been specially called to discuss the fire issue and to find ways to prevent it. There are quite a few PMPML buses that don’t have parking space and are parked by the roadside. There have been incidents where quite a few fire extinguishers from such buses have been stolen.”
 
 In November last, PMPML had said only 415 of its buses had fire extinguishers. The transport body has running fleet of around 1,200-1,300 buses.
 
 Speaking to TOI, Nayana Gunde, chairperson and managing director of PMPML, confirmed the thefts of fire extinguishers. “Parking space has been an issue and we are trying to solve it on priority. There is a committee formed by the RTO regarding the maintenance of the buses. The committee comprises a traffic manager, a chief engineer and the authorities of the private companies operating the buses. I have told them to present a report immediately,” she said. 
 
 The PMPML authorities had recently claimed that the number of buses being parked on the roads have come down drastically after the depot rationalization programme. Also, a total of five octroi posts had been handed over to the PMPML for parking of its vehciles on a 30-year lease.
 
 “While thefts have been common, the equipment stolen ranges from fire extinguishers to bus batteries. There is security near the   building, but the guard cannot be present at all the spots all the time,” a PMPML said.
 
 Transport activist   alleged that fire extinguishers present in some buses were not working. “In most cases, we have found that the cylinders are either empty or kept in some corner unattended. PMPML has not done a fire safety audit for any of its facilities and this proves lack of seriousness in handling the issue,” he added.
 
 
