MANDSAUR: The Rs 25,000 ‘good behavior’ bond handed to the elder brother of   Abhishek Patidar triggered outrage in the region, and sent the administration scrambling to placate rising unrest among farmers.

 
 Senior officials made repeated calls to Abhishek’s family, explaining that the notice for bond was sent ‘inadvertently’. The name of Abhishek’s brother, Madhusudan, in fact, is No. 1 on the list of 10. He was asked to report to Malhargarh police station on Saturday and explain why he shouldn’t be made to deposit a bond of Rs 25,000 against a promise of maintaining peace during the 10-day farmer strike.
 
 The authorities, however, stopped short of cancelling the notice, and asked Madhusudan to “return the notice” to Malhargarh police on Saturday, where he summoned any way.
 
 “I received a call from superintendent of police (Manoj Singh), explaining that the notice was issued because my name may have been forwarded by ‘someone’ in the police station. It was apparently ‘inadvertent’. ‘You may go to the police station tomorrow and return it. Nothing else has to be done’, the SP said,” Madhusudan told TOI.
 
 SP Singh refrained from replying to TOI’s queries on Friday. District collector OP Shrivastava told reporters that the matter was being reviewed and appropriate action will be taken.
 
 Notice sparks strong reaction from all quarters
 
 Madhusudan was asked by the executive magistrate and Malhargarh tehsildar to “maintain good behavior” during the coming protest, which was adjudged as a “serious threat to law and order”. The notices under sections 107 and 116(3) of CrPC have been issued to nine others shortlisted by Malhargarh police and the tehsildar as ‘potential threats’.
 
 TOI had reported on Friday the shock felt by the grieving family on receiving the notice even as they were preparing for Abhishek’s fist death anniversary in Bankhead Panth village. The notices had sparked strong reactions from various quarters, with   planning to use the outrage as a motivator for farmers to flock to AICC chief Rahul Gandhi’s rally planned on June 6 to pay homage to the six farmers killed in police action last year. Former Congress MP   has announced plans to take to the streets against the notices, which she termed as “undemocratic”. 
 
