As per the income tax laws of India, an employer always deducts Tax Deducted at Source (TDS) from the employees' salary, if the salary income crosses the threshold limit. 

 As the Financial Year is at the verge of ending, employees are asked to produce their ‘Income-tax declaration' with details of their investments and expenses, which they incurred during the FY gone by. Based on such declaration, the employer makes tax deductions at source on regular basis, either by deducting further taxes or deducting fewer taxes for the remaining period depending on the actual proofs of investments/savings showed by the employee. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Similarly, if your salary break-up does not include travel allowance, you can always request your employer to include the same in your salary break-up. Every taxpaying citizen should be incurring the travel allowance expenses, before claiming an exemption.
 
 
 
 Employees may furnish an 80D tax certificate from insurance companies in support of deduction of premium paid along with copies of correct bank statement/passbook furthering the proof of such payment. Further, an employee may also produce receipts/bills for any health routine check-up undergone during the FY.
 
 
 
 In order to claim this allowance, an employee is expected to produce particulars, such as name, address and PAN of the landlord and that too in the cases where the aggregate rent paid during the FY exceeds Rs 1 lakh. In case PAN of the landlord is not available, a declaration in Form number 60 should be obtained.
 
 
 
 In this case, particulars, including name, address and PAN of the lender, a certificate from the bank or authorized institution having the details like date of availing loan, installment amount and interest chargeable need to be submitted. 
 
 
 
 If your company does not provide food coupons, you can ask them to consider a proposal. A sum of Rs 50 per meal is exempt on meal vouchers. This means that for a 25 day a month working period, meal vouchers can be tax-exempt to the extent of Rs 2,500 per month, considering lunch and dinner (Rs. 100 x 25 days). 
 
 
 
 Copies of the receipt mentioning the tuition fee receipts that is duly signed or stamped by the educational institution.
 
 
 
 In case you have given certain funds to authorised trusts, charitable institutions like notified temples, Prime Minister's National Relief Fund, National Defence Fund, etc., an employee could submit the proof of donation in the form of a receipt containing all particulars like Name and address and PAN of trust or institution, Name of donor, Registration number, and its validity.
 
 
 
 A copy of deposit receipt for the amount deposited during the Financial Year and a copy of a relevant extract of the bank statement.
 
 
 
 Apart from the above, to save TDS on salary make sure you utilize the entire amount by investing in section 80C and other instruments. Among the most preferred routes to reduce your TDS or tax liability from salary would be investing in PPF. The Public Provident Fund (PPF) offers you a tax rebate of nearly Rs 1.5 lakhs per annum.
 
