CHAMARAJANAGAR/UDUPI/ CHIKKODI: Prime Minister   hit the campaign trail in   on Tuesday, targeting the   government for its culpability in promoting “ease of doing murders” and the   culture of promoting “family politics”.

 
 Modi assured Dalits that reservation facilities provided to them in accordance with the Constitution will not be withdrawn under any condition. He described as false, Congress claims that   would scrap reservation for Dalits and change the Constitution. He also said the Congress had tried to defeat Dr BR Ambedkar in elections.
 
 
  
 
 Stopping short of taking Siddaramaiah’s name, Modi, who began with a public meeting at Santhemarahalli in Chamarajanagar district, said: “It is 2+1 and 1+1 in Congress,” referring to the CM’s contest from two segments and his son’s candidature from Varuna. The 1+1 jibe was aimed at ministers and Congress netas who had got tickets for themselves and their children.
 
 “It is CM’s political innovation,” Modi said, asking if the Congress had run out of leaders to contest the polls against BJP. “Where there is Congress rule, all roads to development are blocked. There is only family politics, corruption and lack of harmony,” he added.
 
 “I was browsing news about Karnataka politics in New Delhi. It was mentioned that there is BJP hawa (wave) in Karnataka. But now after coming here, I see that it is not just hawa but an ‘aandhi’ (storm),” Modi said at Santhemarahalli, where candidates from 22 segments in Mysuru, Mandya and Chamarajanagar districts were present.
 
 He also made fun of CM Siddaramaiah, saying he goes to sleep on the dais at public events. “Sleeping on the dais when people are looking at you is the height of irresponsibility,” he said.
 
 Modi said there is no law and order in the state and even the Lokayukta is not safe. He said though Chamarajanagar has enormous tourism potential, the Congress government has failed to tap it and remained indifferent to the decades-old railway project between Chamarajanagar and Kanakapura.
 
 In his   address, Modi came down heavily on what he said were murders of Hindu activists in Karnataka, alleging that the Siddaramaiah government was apathetic to these killings. The world is hailing India for its rise in ease of doing business rankings, but Karnataka is in the spotlight for “ease of doing murders”, he said in his 41-minute speech.
 
 “There can be no future for Karnataka and its youth if this trend is allowed to continue. If we don’t stop this violence, Karnataka will not prosper,” he said.
 
 Modi said the culture of political killings had reared its head in the state under the Congress government. He said mainstream media may not have highlighted cases of atrocities on women, especially those from economically backward sections of society, but truth has its own way of reaching the people through social media. Letters from senior police officers to the chief secretary have held a mirror to the state of law and order in the state, he added.
 
 Modi said his government has acted decisively in providing for capital punishment to those who sexually assault minors. “Ours is a government that acts decisively,” he said. “On the other hand, there is a government in Karnataka where mafias thrive in every department, and the biggest in this part of the state is the sand mafia that has denied the common man access to sand,” he added.
 
 The Prime Minister ended his Udupi speech, getting the crowd to declare with him: “Sarkara badalisi, BJP gellisi (Change the government, elect BJP)”.
 
 Modi ended his first day of campaign with a public meeting at Chikkodi in Belagavi district.
 
 
