KOLKATA: Three days after the seizure of a pair of hoolock gibbons, two palm civets and more than 40 exotic birds, officials of   are scampering for space to accommodate the new guests. The birds and animals have been kept in the zoo hospital.

 Since hoolock gibbons have arrived in the zoo after more than three decades, the officials are busy checking old records before taking a call on the ideal place where they could be kept. Since the quarantine period will be over in another two weeks’ time, officials are working on a war footing.
 
 “The last time the zoo had hoolock gibbons, the only ape species found in India, was at least three decades ago. The area spread over almost one bigha that now houses crocodiles and gharials was home to the gibbons then,” said zoo director A K  . According to him, they have already identified two areas inside the zoo that can house the new enclosure for the gibbons.
 
 Member secretary of state zoo authority   said all steps would be taken following Central Zoo Authority guidelines. “There has to be enough canopy cover and grass. An area opposite the giraffe enclosure that was supposed to be used for a food court earlier can be considered for them. There is also space between enclosures of lion and hippo,” he said.
 
 “Gibbons are arboreal creatures that require branches, foliage and climbing apparatus in captivity to maintain an active lifestyle. They are sensitive animals that form strong bonds with members of their own species and their human caretakers in captivity and their upkeep in zoos ought to take this into account. Gibbons are easily disturbed by noise and people mimicking their calls in zoos stress them unnecessarily so these situations are best avoided when they are put on display in Alipore zoo. It might be worthwhile to contact the International Primate Protection League in USA for advice, for they operate a well maintained   sanctuary in South Carolina since 1973,” said  , project manager of wildlife, World Animal Protection in India.
 
 “The gibbons and civets are being given fruits like apple, banana and grapes four times a day. Since the civets remain mostly inactive during day time, they are having the fruits in the evening and at night,” Samanta said. According to him, the gibbons, both juvenile male, have been kept in a bigger enclosure — at least 4ft high. But Samanta said the apes are still scared and are not allowing zoo staff near them. The rosellas, parakeets and conures are being given fruits and grains. 
 
 
