SURAT: Family members of a 32-year-old diamond polisher, who died under mysterious circumstances in December 2017, have raised serious concerns with regard to the manner of investigation being conducted in the case. Police in the complaint said he could have died from consumption of toddy. 

 Postmortem revealed that the man had died due to ethyl alcohol poisoning, but the police are yet to show CCTV footages of his last moments to the family members. They claimed it is two months now, but the police have not shown them the CCTV footages of the spot from where the young man’s body was found. Police told them that the CCTV recorder has been sent to   (FSL) for investigation. When they brought this to the notice of city police commissioner  , he asked police to get the CCTV footages for the family members.
 
 A resident of Varachha, Mukesh Naval Zapadiya was found dead on a road in Matawadi at 12.18 pm on December 20. His uncle   (38), a diamond polisher, went to   police station and the cops registered a complaint of accidental death. 
 
 Dharejiya, who had reached the spot where Zapadiya had collapsed, was told by locals that the incident has been captured on a CCTV camera. “I was told by a snacks shop owner that the incident has been captured in a CCTV camera of a shop. I was busy with the funeral and later when I went to check with the shop owner where the CCTV camera was installed, he told me that the DVR has been seized by the police,” Dharjiya said.
 
 “Police told me that the DVR has been sent to forensic science laboratory as part of investigation. I was not shown the video. We are not blaming anyone, but have the right to know the truth,” he added.
 
 “My sister and her three children — aged nine, seven and three years — have now become dependent on others. She is currently living with one of our relatives and there seems to be no hope for them now,” Zapadiya’s brother-in-law   said.
 
 “Body of the deceased had no injury and he died of poisoning due to ethyl alcohol. I have asked the police to get the CCTV footages to check what exactly had happened that day,” Sharma said.
 
 
