KOLKATA: Public display of affection, to some, isn’t a criminal offence. The Indian Penal Code makes it a crime only if the act is ‘obscene’ and annoys others in a public place. But with   — and what can ‘annoy’ others — being interpretative, it is largely left to law enforcers to act as they will.

 
  
 
 Senior criminal lawyer   said, “Obscenity has no straightjacket definition in law. This penal section (294 IPC) is also curiously prefaced with a sentence — “Whoever, to the annoyance of others”. An act may annoy me but not you. These are the points that are open to interpretation. The laws must resonate the world we live in. It is 2018 and not 1860 (when the   was drafted).”
 
 Mukherjee also points out, “This section may only have a three-month penal offence but is a cognisable offence. Now this gives law enforcers reason to act whenever such a crime is brought to their notice without having to seek the magistrate’s permission.”
 
 Even Supreme Court had, in several judgments, chose to iterate that the notion of obscenity may change with the passage of time. Senior criminal lawyer Sekhar Basu said, “It even said that what may have been ‘obscene’ at some point would not be considered so later. Obscenity has to be considered in a society’s context.” Curiously, another penal section finds an action obscene “if it is lascivious or appeals to the prurient interest” or tend to deprave and corrupt people. The Constitution, lawyers say, ensures freedom of speech and expression. However, Article 19 also allows the legislature to impose restrictions on this freedom, among others, on the issue of decency and morality.
 
 Senior public prosecutor   argues even if such penal sections are misused, it will be courts which will finally decide. He said, “Prosecution under Section 294 IPC will only depend on the facts of a particular case. The trial court factors in all the evidence. Police can act, but ultimately it is the court that will decide.”
 
 Senior criminal lawyer   said, “A few months back, I was part of a team researching in whether kissing in public is a criminal offence. We were trying to understand the legal implications of the ‘Kiss of love’ movement that started in Kerala. We concluded it wasn’t illegal. Some may claim it is immoral but that doesn’t make it a criminal offence. There’s a difference between illegal and immoral. “Section 294 was drafted years ago and has never been amended since. It may have had justification in the 19th century in British-ruled India but this is 2018. We need to take a relook,” he said.
 
