If you are one of those Vizagites who’s proud of our long coastline and unspoilt, pristine beaches, then this picture will surely make you squirm. That’s our beloved   at low tide! The same beach where we love to go  ,  , surfing and  , and basically just living the much-envied #BeachLife. When the sea rolls back though, it exposes the collective shame of our modern society —  !

  In fact, clear sea days that used to be cherished by the Vizagites, have ironically became an eye opener for many now. “Recently, I happened to go kayaking on a day when the sea was crystal clear at Rushikonda Beach. The beauty and serenity of the sea was really memerising, but, I noticed pieces of plastic floating all over the sea. I also saw pieces of plastic stuck to the rocks near the beach. I was shocked to see the pollution on the beach. I had always thought of Vizag’s beaches as one of the less polluted ones. But, that’s going to change if we aren’t careful,” shares Jairam Naveen, a city-based photographer. 
 
  
 
  Experts lament that Lawsons Bay Beach and the RK Beach are so polluted and people are even scared of surfing at the former. “I frequently go snorkelling at Rushikonda, but of late, one doesn’t even have to take a plunge to deep waters to see the menace of plastic pollution,” says Abigail Irwin, a marine biology student. “At low tide, pieces of plastic cling to the rocks and they finally end up being eaten up by fish and animals that find them visually appealing. When an animal ingests plastic, it doesn’t get digested and ends up adversely affecting its bodily functions or, it breaks down and ends up releasing toxins into the body. We, humans will be the final victims of the menace since, it reaches us through the food chain. When plastic clogs up fishing nets, it ends up catching marine life that should not have been caught up in nets in the first place,” she elaborates, throwing light on the far-reaching consequences of plastic pollution. 
 
  Gujjari Anil Kumar, a scuba divemaster from the city says, “I recently found a dead dolphin at Mangamaripeta Beach; it was heart-breaking to see such a beautiful creature lying lifeless. I have seen carcasses of Olive Ridley turtles at the Rushikonda Beach in the past. These deaths happen due to the presence of micro-plastics in the sea. In fact, I have seen more trash than marine life at Mangamaripeta frequently!” 
 
  
 
  Explaining how plastic turns into micro plastic, that’s detrimental to all life in our oceans, Anil says, “A majority of the plastic waste ends up in the sea. The sea tries its best to throw out the garbage, but subsequently, it breaks down into brittle pieces. The movement of the sea turns the plastic into micro plastic, which cannot be seen by the human eye.” 
 
  From corals that live on sea beds to sea birds that swim on its surface, every living thing pays the price for our plastic menace. “Initially, it is corals which get affected due to plastic, but finally it reaches sea birds through the food chain. The population of sea birds has decreased all over the world due to this. This micro-plasic pollution is so rampant that in some countries, they have even started selling ‘micro-plastic free fish’ that is tested in labs for pollutants. We do not want to come to that stage or end up being another North Pacific Gyre,” adds Anil.
 
  But plastic isn’t the only woe that our water bodies face. Professor KVSR Prasad, Head, Meteorology and Oceanography Department, Andhra University, says that industrial waste and municipal sewage are the main culprits behind rise in pollution levels of city’s beaches.
 
  “A number of industries in   dumps its waste into the sea without proper treatment,” he claims, adding, “Even the municipal sewage ends up at sea, thus affecting the lives of many species of marine life. Last year, in Parawada, a lot of fish died because of industrial pollution. But, we had instances of such pollution even six years ago. 
 
  When the situation is so bad, dumping plastics carelessly at the beaches is bound to have enormous consequences. The micro-plastic will neither dissolve, diffuse nor settle at the bottom of the sea. Before using or dumping plastic, one must realise its grave consequences,” he says. Our mindless disposal of plastic must end, says Prasad. “The fishermen use plastic wires in their nets and discard them randomly. This leads to lot of problems, as anything discarded on the beach, ends of up in the sea, or vice-versa. Be it the crabs that live on the beaches or the Olive Ridleys that live in the sea, the eco-system is severely affected due to improper disposal of plastic waste,” rues Prasad.
 
  
 
  So, what’s the solution, you ask? Well, change your choices, one at a time. The next time you use a disposable plastic item — cup, plate,spoon, bag — ask yourself where will it end up going once you throw it out. The answer most often will be — the sea. “We got used to use-and-throw that we are averse to recycle or reuse. Only a miniscule amount of plastic is ever reused or recycled. Thankfully, we can see more plastic on-shore than off shore for now, but that will soon change if we are not careful,” says Anil. 
 
  Rethink every little choice you make and reuse as much as you can, avers Abigail. “If you pay close attention to the garbage at sea, it’s usually food containers and plastic bags. If we can persuade the big supermarkets and food organisations to ban plastic and demand that they use bio-degradable materials, it could make a lot of difference. Other countries have adopted this method and it has worked out well for them,” shares Abigail, adding, “People tend to reuse jute bags; cloth or paper bags that are handed over to customers that are less likely to be thrown away. People wouldn’t throw away anything they pay extra for, plus, these bags look sturdier than plastic ones. So that’s another option. You can’t simply say we have caused so much damage already, and there is no future and do nothing about it. while we might not reverse the damage done, we can still minimise the consequences. There are people who think that it doesn’t affect them now, so why bother? But, the decisions we make today will end up affecting the future generations and that is something we must keep in mind.” 
 
  
 Estimates put the ‘North Pacific Gyre’ or the ‘Great Pacific Garbage Patch’, discovered in 1988, from 7,00,000 square km to more than 15,000,000 sq km. The vortex of garbage accumulated here, has one of the highest levels of plastic found at sea in the world. The United Nations Ocean Conference once estimated that the oceans may end up containing more weight in plastic than marine life by the end of 2050. While the garbage patch is not visible from space, contrary to popular belief, the patch made up of micro- plastic is not even visible to the human eye. However, the patch also has visible debris that lies right under the surface of the ocean. Such garbage patches are found at many of the world’s ocean gyres. 
 
  
 So far, there are no specific reports about the increasing levels of plastic in the sea at Vizag. But in the coming months, we will be conducting extensive study on the same and will even be taking sea-bed samples from Srikakulam to   stretch. Along with the water study, we will do a sedimentary study, and this will tell us whether there is plastic pollution, and if yes, what’s the extent of the damage it has caused. That said, we can’t deny that there’s plastic pollution and pretend that everything is fine. The study will help us ascertain facts. 
 
