NEW DELHI: The issue of Canadian government’s apparent ambivalence on how to deal with Sikh extremists continued to cloud PM Justin Trudeau’s ongoing visit to India.

 The 7-day visit, the longest in recent times by a head of government, seemed to be making news for all the wrong reasons with the Indian side at pains to deny that PM   not receiving Trudeau at the airport, or not accompanying him to Ahmedabad, was a snub to the visiting leader. It was Canada, according to official sources, which insisted that Trudeau’s official engagements in Delhi take place towards the end of his India visit.
 
 Trudeau and his defence minister Harjit Sajjan, sources here said, finally proposed a meeting with Singh in what is being seen as an attempt to address the strong perception in India that Trudeau’s Liberal government has failed to rein in pro-Khalistan elements active in Canada. Reports from Canada had earlier said that no such meeting had been sought by Canadian authorities.
 
 While Canadian diplomatic sources chose to not comment on the issue, Singh himself tweeted Monday evening that he was looking forward to meeting Trudeau in Amritsar on Wednesday. ``I’m hopeful that this meeting will help strengthen the close Indo-Canadian business ties as well as the deep-rooted people-to-people relations between our two countries,’’ he said.
 
 Official sources here confirmed that Canada was initially reluctant to have Trudeau meet Singh because the latter had last year refused to meet Sajjan calling him a Khalistani sympathiser. While Trudeau is expected to reiterate Canada’s position that it fully supports a unified India, India wants Trudeau to also ensure that his Sikh ministers are not seen as endorsing in any way the   movement.
 
 Another diplomatic headache for India was the perception that Canada, an important supplier of uranium to India which has also backed India’s NSG membership bid to the hilt, was being ignored by the Indian establishment. Trudeau detractors in Canada were quick to claim that Modi had snubbed him by not receiving him at the airport and also by not accompanying him to Ahmedabad, the city Trudeau visited with his family on Monday before flying to Mumbai.
 
 Official sources here said that Trudeau had been received by a Minister of State in keeping with the protocol. "Really don’t understand the point here as the PM didn’t even receive Chinese President Xi Jinping at the airport,’’ adding that going to airport was a departure from protocol and a special gesture shown by the PM for a select few leaders. Modi has so far received only former US President Barack Obama, Japanese PM Shinzo Abe, Abu Dhabi Crown Prince Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Bangladesh PM Sheikh Hasina and Israeli PM Benjamin Netanyahu at the airport.
 
 While Trudeau landed in Delhi first from Canada on Saturday evening, he chose to visit Taj Mahal the next day before flying to Ahmedabad and Mumbai. He will visit Amritsar on Wednesday before finally arriving in Delhi for an official reception and meeting with Modi which is scheduled for Friday. An official source here termed the itinerary as weird saying that the Indian side had repeatedly suggested that Trudeau first have his official engagements in Delhi before travelling to other cities. According to Indian authorities, Trudeau and his officials had chosen on their own to visit Ahmedabad and at no stage had Modi committed himself to accompanying the Trudeau family to Ahmedabad. Reports in Canadian media highlighted how Modi had earlier accompanied Xi and also Abe and Netanyahu to Ahmedabad. 
 
  
 
 
 
