The nation is caught up in a frenzy centred around a woman’s breast. A popular Malayalam fortnightly has stirred up a veritable storm in their latest issue. In it, model Gilu Joseph stares defiantly at us, portraying a mother   a newborn on the cover headlined “Mothers to  : Do not stare, we need to breastfeed”.

 The cover is a bold beginning of a campaign to free the female breast from shame and objectification. More importantly, it is an effort to reclaim the collective rights of all   to be seen as mothers, not bodies; to nurse and nurture in public without being judged. To be able to feed the children of men in respectful privacy; to get that privacy and respect on demand, anywhere, anytime.
 
 Of course, that’s not the message some people (all of them men, I must add) are taking away from this exercise. Expectedly, the magazine and the model have both been sued for indecent exposure. A lawyer from Kollam has alleged in the complaint that the picture is lascivious in nature, appealing to prurient interests and tends to degrade the image of woman. 
 
 How does a depiction of motherhood degrade the image of women? Sure beats me. I am at a complete loss trying to figure out how a picture of an infant having lunch can be viewed sexually. I guess when you look down from a testosterone-driven moral highground, the top angle view of any pair of breasts can be quite prurient !
 
 Yes, breasts are sexy, but only in context. The female body is sexy, but only in context. In fact, even in that context, they pale when compared to lips or fingers. Every time one looks at someone’s lips, one doesn’t see mental images of passionate kissing, fingers are not considered play toys, so why malign breasts to  ? This is exactly the twisted mindset that the campaign has set out to change. Let’s not forget that Ms Joseph’s photos, and the entire ‘don’t stare” campaign, was triggered by the travails of a real mother from Kerala whose nursing picture on social media drew plenty of bullying.
 
 How ironical is it that men who protest the sight of a lactating breast have no qualms about urinating in public, flashing their privates in broad daylight at every street corner! Because, of course, a baby’s hunger is not nearly as urgent as an adult man’s need to relieve himself, right?! That so stinks (pun intended)!
 
 Babies don’t get aroused or offended by seeing a breast. They get hungry. A hungry baby needs to be nursed immediately, openly, right away. Mothers ought to be able to feed babies freely in a safe, open and clean environment. Not in a bathroom; not under a towel; not after half an hour; not when no one is around. It is every baby’s right to be fed, every mother’s right to nurse, and every squeamish man’s duty to look away. A mother’s mammaries are working breasts. Treat them that way. Leave them alone to do their work in peace.
 
 Some others are calling this, a gimmick by the publishing house. I say, so be it ! Why not? Gimmick or not, it has started a dialogue that is long due. I do hope real mothers will come forward and participate in subsequent shoots. Five years ago, I shot for a similar project in America. Those beautiful pictures touched so many women and families in the western world, in such a gloriously positive way. 
 Indian media discovered them three years later. The several viral weeks that followed were quite a learning experience. Not all Indian men are voyeurs, yet so many still need to open up their minds. It is time.
 
 P.S : Happy Women’s Day, folks !
 
 (Views expressed above are the author’s own) 
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
