KOLKATA: With   postponing the admission tests for undergraduate and postgraduate courses from April to May 12 and 13 this year, the number of applicants have increased by more than 25% compared to 2017 figures. The university authorities were prodded into changing the dates by the state which was concerned over the large number of vacant seats in 2017.

 Last year, the university held the UG admission test on April 30, before the end of the HS exams. Because of that, many candidates could not take the test since they were preparing for the boards. On Friday, the   authorities, who conduct Presidency University Bachelor’s Degree Entrance Test (PUBDET) and Presidency University Master’s Degree Entrance Test (PUMDET), revealed that the applicants have increased from 13,588 to more than 19,400 for UG and PG candidates have increased from 5,852 to over 7,100.
 
 “The university has also relaxed the admission criteria in most subjects, allowing the applications to increase manifold. This will help the varsity fill up all vacant seats this year,” said a source.
 
 Another major decision taken by the   on Friday was to hold separate counselling for UG and PG candidates. While the   board will counsel external students for 40% seats, the university will do the counselling for the 60% seats kept for internal students.
 
 The other decisions to be implemented by Presidency University to fill up seats include starting classes immediately after the first round of counselling. The authorities will also apply to the SC/ST commission seeking permission to de-reserve vacant seats immediately after classes begin. If there are more vacancies, the second round of counselling will be held after 15 days, once the vacant seats are de-reserved and JEE board completes its counselling process. A third round of counselling may be held if needed.
 
 “This will ensure that students who are interested in engineering or other courses can opt out of the admission process. The vacant seats will then be added to the next round of counselling. Presidency authorities were sent instructions by the state to ensure no seat remains vacant in the 2018-2019 academic year,” a source said.
