WARDHA: The air of Jaypur Khadka village in Selu Taluka of   was filled with enthusiasm as villagers welcomed the new JCB land-excavator, the first in the taluka. The event held major significance for the people who have been offering ‘Shramdaan’ — a selfless donation of labour — for conserving water for the future generations.

 The ‘Shramdaan’ drive was organized across   by ‘Paani Foundation’, run by Bollywood actor Aamir Khan, on the occasion of World Labour day on Tuesday where about 800 villagers from across the taluka registered for ‘Shramdaan’ and pledged to conserve rainwater. 
 
 The entire population of the village — close to 180 farmers and their families — have been building contours and trenches to block rainwater on sloping land since April 8. “These contours avoids soil erosion caused by running rainwater,” said Amit Dalvi, taluka coordinator of the foundation.
 
 The foundation has been working for retaining groundwater level and eradicating drought from Maharashtra by teaching villagers how to build contours and trenches. As per the foundation, drought eradication has to be a “peoples’ movement”. Hence, they trained a few villagers from each village in the state about benefits of contour building, who in turn educated the rest of the villagers. 
 
 “The machinery will be a great boost to the morale and efficiency of villagers in digging up ponds and trenches,” said Dalvi. “We aim to dam 4000 cubic metres of water across the farms, and since the movement’s inception, half the work is completed. Plus, with the aid of the machine we will finish the work even faster,” he added.
 
 “Initially, farmers were very keen on building these contours as it passes through their farms, and their oxen and cattle face difficulty while ploughing fields. However, the villagers have come together since they saw its benefits,” said Dalvi.
 
 Seventy-year-old farmer Ramu Nagtode and his son Umesh, were among the many ‘labour donors’ from the village. “There is absolutely no need for us to build contours or trenches in our village as our region has abundant water. But, we are doing it for so that our children don’t face water crisis in future. A seed sowed today will reap fruits tomorrow,” said Ramu Nagtode.
 
 Chitra Wakhale, one of the five from the village who underwent training said, “The training made us capable of resolving this issue by teaching us different techniques with which we can dam rainwater. Everyday, alongside the men of our families, we build these contours and trenches. We hope that this year’s monsoon brings plenty of rainwater,” she said.
 
