HYDERABAD: Two days after an electrician was booked for rape bid on a seven-year-old girl, a video surfaced on Monday showing Malakpet   Ahmed   (MIM) and his aides thrashing the culprit, Syed Ismail, at the Chaderghat   and policemen there were just mute spectators. Surprisingly, Hyderabad police brass claimed they were unaware about the incident until the video came to light. Till last reports came in, no case was registered against the people who took law into their own hands and thrashed Ismail.

 On Friday night, Ismail was brought to the police station by a mob after he was beaten up. MLA Balala also joined them and the video shows him walking into the police station and later entering a room, where Ismail was kept. The MLA smacked Ismail while abusing the culprit. Later, the mob took over and rained blows on Ismail. However, the policemen at the station did not even attempt to stop them.
 
 
  
 After coming out of the police station, the MLA gave a statement to the media asserting that if police does not take strict action against Ismail by making sure he remains behind bars, and otherwise public will take action.
 
 When contacted, Hyderabad police commissioner Anjani Kumar said on that night the people, who brought the culprit to the police station, were seeting with anger. “On the issue of the footage showing some persons attacking the accused, we are verifying the authenticity of the video. Once it is done, action will be taken,’’ he added.
 
 Deputy commissioner of police (East Zone) M Ramesh said an inquiry was ordered and action would be taken for inaction on the part of policemen present at the station and for not alerting higher-ups about the assault. “ACP, Sultan Bazar, is conducting an inquiry and shortly a decision on registering a criminal case will be taken,’’ Ramesh told TOI.
 
 Police on Monday claimed that, on Friday night, there were only few policemen in   and the accused was also not kept in the lock up, which helped the mob to lay hands of the Ismail, who was allegedly drunnk.
 
 When   was repeatedly contacted by TOI, both his mobile phones were switched off.
 
 Criminal lawyer Muzafarullah Khan said, “If Hyderabad police do not file a criminal case, I will file a petition in the High Court.”
 
 
