The Hungarian national side, Magical Magyars, virtually ruled the footballing world in the early 50’s with their own brand of ‘Total Football’. Not many were willing to put their money against Magical Magyars when they arrived in Switzerland for the 1954 World Cup on a 27-match unbeaten streak.

 
 
 
 The team comprising legendary Ferenc Puskas, Sandor Kocsis, Nándor Hidegkuti, Jozsef Bozsik and Gyula Grosics slammed 25 goals into the rivals’ net in just four matches to storm into the final. Up against them in the title clash were West Germany, a bunch of semi-professionals under an astute coach Sepp Herberger, whom they had beaten 8-3 in the group stage.
 
 
 
 But the 60,000 people cramped inside Wankdorf Stadium, Bern, braving the torrential rain, watched in almost collective disbelief West Germany upsetting the Hungarians in one of the biggest shocks in World Cup history in what is dubbed as the ‘Miracle of Bern’.
 
 The German side - wearing a new piece of kit, boots with screwing studs - was two goals down inside the first eight minutes but made a stunning comeback to clinch the tie 3-2. It is believed that the result even had a lasting impact on the socio-economic fabric of both the countries and saw the emergence of Germany as a footballing powerhouse.
 
 The tournament also saw Hungary getting involved in one of the most violent matches in World Cup history against Brazil in the quarterfinals. Three players were sent off in the game which saw Brazilian photographers and officials invading the pitch for a controversial penalty awarded to the Hungarians and the players of both team getting involved in mass brawls inside the dressing rooms. Though Brazil lost the match, 2-4, they returned home heroes with one of the local newspapers penning a tribute, “Glory to those who knew how to fight.”
 
 The first televised World Cup in history had 16 teams, four groups of four teams each. Strangely, only four matches were scheduled for each group, with the seeded teams playing against the unseeded ones. Another unique feature of the tournament was that the four group-winning teams played against each other in the knockouts to decide one finalist while the second-placed sides squared up against each other to produce the other finalist.
 
