NEW DELHI: The no-confidence motions against the Narendra Modi government by the   and   couldn't be taken up in the   yet again today, for the third day in a row, with the Speaker adjourning the House yet again due to disorder and disruption.

 
 "The country has never seen such a sorry state, this is not proper. House is not in order and so   cannot be moved," said Lok Sabha Speaker Sumitra Mahajan, as she adjourned the House until tomorrow, under similar circumstances that the House was adjourned yesterday and on Friday. 
 
 Yesterday, some opposition members blamed the AIADMK - which is planning to stay neutral on the no-confidence motion - for the disruptions even as the government, via Union minister Rajnath Singh, said the government was ready for discussion on any issues.
 
 If and when the no-confidence motion is taken up for discussion, it would be the first of its kind against this administration.
 
 Yesterday, the TDP and YSR Congress preemptively directed its MPs to be present in Parliament to ensure that the no-confidence motion against the Union government gets tabled today.
 
 TDP chief and Andhra Pradesh CM Chandrababu Naidu told party legislators to show up at full strength and be ready to counter allies of the ruling   should they attempt to create a logjam.
 
 "We should not dilute our fight. Public interests are our priority. No compromise in the matter of our rights. There is a possibility that they let some other parties create din and adjourn the House sine die," Naidu told TDP MPs over teleconference, as reported by ANI.
 
 The YSR Congress also issued a whip to its members, stating that all should be present and fulfill the required number of members for the no-confidence motion. In the missive, party leader Y V Subba Reddy has asked MPs to stand up and vote in favour of the motion when it is taken up in the Lower House.
 
 A host of opposition parties have pledged support for the no-confidence motion against the government moved by the TDP and YSRCP, both of which are unhappy at Andhra Pradesh not being given 'special category status'(SCS). The parties in support include the Congress, the Left and the Trinamool Congress Their support means it will be more than comfortably accepted as it will have the support of at least 50 members of Parliament (MPs) in the House, which is a minimum requirement.
 
 The parties that are staying neutral on the motion are the AIADMK, which has 37 MPS, the Biju Janata Dal with 20 MPs and the Telengana Rashtra Samiti, which has 11 MPs.
 
 Still, the BJP will remain unaffected as it has a comfortable majority in the Lok Sabha on its own. The current strength of the Lok Sabha is 539 (excluding the Speaker) and the ruling BJP has 275 members, more than the majority mark of 271, and enjoys the support of several allies. (The BJP's 275 includes two nominated members and the Speaker.)
 
 
 Of those who will support the no-confidence motion, the Congress has 48 MPs in the Lok Sabha, the Trinamool Congress has 34, the TDP has 16, the YSR Congress and the CPM have nine MPs each, the NPC has six, AAP and the RJD have four MPs each, and the AIMIM has one MP. In the 'Others' category, those supporting the motion number 13 MPs.
 
 
 YSR Congress was the first to give a notice last week for a no-trust motion after the Centre made it clear that it would not grant special category status to Andhra Pradesh. Not to be outdone by its main rival in the state, TDP, a long-time BJP ally, then decided to break its ties over the issue and brought a no-confidence motion of its own.
 
 
 Both parties have been lobbying with opposition parties for support to their respective notices. A no-confidence motion notice must be supported by at least 50 MPs to be taken up in the House. The government earlier expressed confidence that the notices, even if they are admitted, will be defeated given its strength in Lok Sabha, where the ruling NDA has a clear majority.
 
 
