THIRUVANANTHAPURAM:   and Vithura witnessed waves of protest on Friday when members of Neyyatinkara Latin Catholic Diocese tried to break the police cordon in their bid to conduct the annual procession to Bonacaud  . 

 More than 3500 believers took part in the procession despite early warnings from the police not to venture into the hills for the annual pilgrimage citing an August-31 High Court order preventing any fresh effort to erect new cross atop   hills, more popularly known as Bonacaud Kurishumala.
 
 Simmering tension first erupted near the Kanithadam forest check post, where police blocked the procession around 10 am. Police resorted to baton charging when the force came under a barrage of stones allegedly pelted by the protestors.
 
 The believers soon assembled at the   near Vithura blocking traffic even as the protest snowballed into a serious law and order issue. Many buses and shops were damaged in stone throwing.
 
 The protesters, however, were not ready to accept a truce formula that was hammered out following talks held with the tahsildar. As per the understanding, police were ready to allow 15 people to conduct a symbolic pilgrimage. But the agitators stuck to their demand - of the entire assembly being allowed to Kurishumala - even as authorities raised the quota to 50.
 
 With the protest bringing Vithura to a standstill police forcefully removed about 60 protestors who were let off late evening after recording their arrests. The clash left about 20 police personnel and 18 agitators injured. The injured were admitted to the medical college hospital. Several others were administered first aid at Vithura Taluk Hospital.
 
 The Bonacaud issue was brewing ever since two seven-foot concrete crosses, erected by the diocese, were damaged by unidentified persons. The "destruction'' had occurred after the forest department had issued a notice to remove them terming them as illegal structures''. Subsequently, the diocese approached the state government and secured permission from the forest minister to install a 10-foot wooden cross. Though the high court, meanwhile, had directed status quo - while disposing off two separate petitions - the diocese installed the wooden cross.
 
  But this cross was also found destroyed on November 27. A probe by the forest officials concluded that it was struck by lightning''.
 
 Trivandrum Archdiocese Arch Bishop Rev. Dr. M   issued a statement demanding action against police officers, who resorted to third degree measures on the believers, who were conducting the procession peacefully. 
 
 Neyyatinkara Diocese Vicar General Rev. Fr. G Christudas, who had inaugurated the procession, said the diocese has no intention to grab forest land.
 
