Visakhapatnam: Although heavy rains on Tuesday brought relief from the scorching sun, it was a nightmare for commuters, visitors, tourists and people living opposite RK beach. Normal life brought to a grinding halt.

 After heavy downpour in the morning, clouds dotted the sky throughout the day. This was accompanied by steady drizzle. To enjoy the weather, most families and college students ventured out onto the RK Beach Road. However, many of them were disappointed as the entire beach road was covered with garbage, including wine bottles and coconut shells.
 
 Drains overflowed in many parts of the city and pedestrians as well as commuters had a tough time in low-lying areas like Poorna Market, Kobarithotta, Reeliveedhi and Convent Junction. J Bhavesh, a college student who went with his family to spend some time on the beach road, said, “The weather changed completely, it was respite from the scorching heat that had been persisting. When we went for a stroll near RK Beach, we could sense a foul smell. The entire stretch was littered with garbage. It was disheartening to see the state of affairs as most of the people tend to throng the RK beach when the weather turns cloudy. We could not breathe fresh air. Foul smell was emanating from the garbage that got carried away with the drain water and was scattered on the road.”
 
 Another tourist from Odisha said, “I had a good time when I jogged in the morning. Later, I thought of taking my wife to the beach. However, it was a rude shock as the beauty was replaced by dirty mud and drain water.”
 
 Speaking to TOI, GVMC CMOH A Hemanth said, “After the heavy rain, all the wards in the entire city were surveyed and machinery and manpower were deployed in the affected areas.”
 
 He also added, “A few drains in the city were choked as huge amounts of solid waste was seen accumulated on the hill top. This led to overflow of drains and a few areas getting littered. However, most of the wards were cleaned by evening, keeping in view the safety of the people.”
 
 
