NEW DELHI:   of the   of   Delhi University colleges came together on Saturday to   the idea of  . 

 Voicing concern that it would lead to high fees and loss of diversity in colleges, teachers of Miranda House, SRCC, St Stephen’s, Hansraj, Hindu, LSR and SGTB Khalsa College said they feared decline in quality of education as colleges will be forced to start self-financing courses to meet market demands.
 
 
  
 
 The DU Teacher’s Association (DUTA) claimed that around 20 colleges are on list of the ministry of human resource development for this. It said the policy has far-reaching adverse implications for the health of the public-funded education system. “Replacing public funding with internal receipts would put the onus on the college authorities to increase student fees and enrolment exponentially.”
 
 St Stephen’s professor Nandita Narain said colleges like Stephen’s are considered to be brands, and “we are excellent as we get government funds and are part of DU as we get expertise from DU”. Calling Stephen’s a “national treasure”, Narain said “what answer will we give to the nation when people who cannot pay high fees of self-financing courses cannot get admission here?”
 
 Prof Sanjay Bohidar of SRCC felt such autonomy was “autonomy from government and dependence on market.” Bohidar complained that “instead of improving the infrastructure, the government is moving towards commercial management.” He warned against a decline in quality of education, courses students.
 
 The staff association of Hindu College, which recently came out to protest against their college’s attempts to seek autonomy, rejected the idea and said autonomous colleges ended up becoming “teaching shops”. Atul Gupta, secretary of the staff association, called the entire scheme a “scam”. He said grants will be replaced by loans to be sanctioned by the Higher Education Funding Agency.
 
 Miranda House teachers were worried about new self-financing courses adversely affecting students from the marginalised sections, especially women, “at a time when empowerment of women is important”. The secretary of the staff association, Renu Arora, warned that autonomy would be detrimental for teaching of humanities as that would be considered less profitable.
 
 
