Tirunelveli: “We are happy that the government has given us houses. But we are equally afraid that usurers would grab our houses if we are unable to repay the exorbitant rates of interest they demand from us,” said P David, 23, of the Narikurava community in Therku Vagaikulam village.

 David’s family is among the 38 families of the community for whom the government has built houses at Rs 3 lakh each in Therku Vagaikulam. Without financial backup, they are solely dependent on usurers for money to set up their small scale bike based fancy items business.
 
 Two months ago he and his wife Chandralekha, 22, borrowed Rs 50,000 from an usurer in Tirunelveli at an interest rate of 240 per cent (20 per cent per month). “We make Rs 12,000 a month from the business and have repaid Rs 20,000 as interest in the last two months at Rs 10,000 per month,” he said.
 
 They have to continue repaying the same amount as interest every month till they return the principle. “If we are unable to repay for three or four months owing to poor business, the money lender will take away our bike and the caravan and sell it. This has happened to a few people in this community, forcing them to start the business afresh,” laments S Raja, 24.
 
 At times, the interest rate is much more than what this couple is paying. “We are illiterates and give what the lender demands from us. I borrowed Rs 7,000 from a lender to buy fancy items for business. I have repaid Rs 2,000 a month for a year. I have repaid Rs 24,000 so far. The lender has asked me to pay Rs 15,000 more,” adds M Chinnamari, 22.
 
 District Collector Sandeep Nanduri told TOI that quite a few Narikurava families have sought loans to establish their business. “The district administration is carrying out various activities under Project Spark for the welfare of people from the Narikurava Community,” he said.
 
 The collector added that Narikuravas can be covered under the Tamil Nadu Backward Classes Economic Development Corporation Limited (of the Government), wherein they could get loans up to Rs 50,000 to set up a small enterprise. “We have started processing their request. The loans will soon be sanctioned,” he concluded.
 
 
