BENGALURU: Mohammed Nalapad Haris, elder son of Shantinagar Congress  , will spend this weekend in Central Jail here after a   on Friday adjourned the hearing on his bail petiton to Monday.

  and his six associates are in Parappana Agrahara prison for allegedly attempting to murder and assaulting Vidvat L, a 24-year-old management graduate in a UB City restaurant on February 17.
 
 The City Civil and Sessions Court (CCH 63) was packed with advocates and journalists as Judge Parameshwara Prasanna B sat down to hear the   around 3.30 pm. The proceedings began with the public prosecutor filing objections to the bail petition. The prosecutor said there is a chance that Vidvat may be murdered if Haris and his associates in the case are granted bail. He also said the MLA’s son could influence the prosecution witnesses.
 
 The judge asked the prosecution whether the CD of the video footages from the restaurant had been produced. The prosecutor submited that it will be given later to the court. At this stage, advocate MS Shyam Sundar stepped in and informed the court that he had been appointed as Special Public Prosecutor in the case. 
 
 Sundar produced a government order issued to his effect on Friday. After the court took the order on record, Sundar informed the court that he would need to have a look at objections filed by the public prosecutor and will submit a fresh set of objections on Monday. 
 
 The court adjourned the hearing of the bail petitions filed by Haris’ six fellow accused in the case to Monday. 
 
 It then took up an application filed by Alam Pasha, an RTI activist who represents ‘Helping Citizen and People’s Court’ NGO, that he be considered as third party to assist the prosecution. Pasha claimed that given the high-profile nature of the case, there is a likelihood of parties striking a compromise. He said cases of this kind should be be taken to their logical conclusion and become an example for others.
 
 Defence counsel Tomy Sebastian objected to the application. In his hour-long submission, he argued that Alam Pasha had filed the application to consider him a third party under CrPC sections 301 and 302. But these provisons allow a third party only after the court takes the case into cognizance or the chargesheet is filed.
 
 Pasha’s counsel opposed Sebastian’s arguments. The court adjourned hearing of Pasha’s application to Saturday. It said Haris’ bail plea will be heard on Monday.
 
 The court hall was full of curious advocates. “This is a high-profile case given that senior advocate Tomy Sebastian is the defence counsel and Shyam Sundar is the special public prosecutor,” an advocate said.
 
 
