MUMBAI: When you're the scion of the head of a business group that's worth $41billion, Rs 30 lakh isn't more than small change. However, for Aryaman Birla, son of  , chairman of the   Group, this amount is as big as any big business deal his famous father may have pulled off. It's his first big pay cheque as a professional cricketer.

 
 
 
 The budding player, though, is more pleased about the fact that he was snapped up by the   in the   auction in Bangalore on Sunday. It gives him a chance to play under Australian captain and arguably the world's best batsman currently,  , in a dressing room which will also include England all-rounder Ben Stokes and India batsman  .
 
 
 
 "It's a great feeling. I'm so grateful to them for this opportunity. There's so much to learn from everyone in that dressing room. To be around that group will be a huge learning curve for me. I'm so looking forward to it. I'm going to work hard in the build-up to the opportunity," Aryaman told TOI from Nagpur, where he was with the Madhya Pradesh team for an U-23 One-day game against Chhatisgarh.
 
 Ironically, the day didn't start on a great note for the 20 year-old all-rounder, who is a left-hand batsman and a left-arm spinner.
 
 "I wasn't following the auctions. Someone told me about RR picking me up at the ground. I was unwell since the last couple of days, so I didn't play today. I've been vomiting since the last two days due to a stomach infection," said the talented youngster, who had slammed 602 runs, including two hundreds (153 & 137) and a brilliant double-hundred (236) against Chhatisgarh, in five games last season for the Madhya Pradesh Under-23 team, besides taking 10 wickets with his left-arm spin.
 
 "I'm very happy for Aryaman. He had a brilliant season for the Madhya Pradesh Under-23 team. He was India's highest run-getter in the Polly Umrigar Trophy. He got a hundred in the Under-23 One-dayers too. The fact that he's an all-rounder adds value to him as a T20 player. It'll be a good learning curve for him. As it is, he's a confident boy, but sharing the dressing room with a few top players like Smith, Ajinkya and Stokes can be important for his career. He can watch them closely. That's a big positive. It can help him become a better cricketer," said former India batsman and Mumbai coach Pravin Amre, who's also Aryaman's personal coach.
 
 Amre recalled how Aryaman was the "most difficult challenge" of his coaching career. "Aryaman came to meet me at Shivaji Park with his mom. I didn't take him into my academy because he was Kumaramanglam Birla's son, but because I was convinced that he had talent in him Since I've a reputation of coaching top cricketers, people thought that I was coaching him because he was Birla's son. But that wasn't the case. My forte is to coach players who've cricket in them," said the 49-year-old.
 
 "His journey is still going on. I'm not that excited right now. As his coach, I will be excited when he gets into the Indian team," he added. 
 
  
  
 
