VIJAYAWADA: Rising cases of depression in   have become a cause of worry for mental health professionals. However, what’s more worrying is doctors are still divided over the usage of  .

 While some doctors say anti-depressants only suppress the symptoms, others argue that medical intervention is needed as depression is caused because of biological changes.
 
 In fact, the debate over usage of anti-depressants and anti-psychotic drugs to treat depression is raging across the globe. Some medical experts say that anti-depressants only suppress the symptoms instead of curing depression. However, others say that in most cases, depression occurs because of biological changes, which need to be corrected through medical intervention.
 
 Dr  , a psychiatrist here, says that alternative methods such as psychotherapy only work for patients with mild depression. Whereas, patients with suicidal tendencies, and those having sleep problem, need to be given medication. 
 
 More importantly, scientists have still not been able to pinpoint the reason for depression, which according WHO is a common illness worldwide and has affected more than 30 crore people. The global health organisation says at its worst, depression can lead to suicide and close to 8 lakh people die due to suicide every year. 
 
 Doctors say there is no apparent reason for depression, which can affect a person who is doing well in all aspects of life. In most cases, decreased levels of serotonin, a neurotransmitter, causes depression. Anti-depressants help increase the levels of serotonin and reduce the symptoms of depression. 
 
 However, Dr  , professor in clinical psychology argues that many a times, usage of anti-depressants actually makes patients depend on them, and long-term usage also makes them addictive to the drugs. He said finding the root cause of the disease is more important, and medicine should be given only after root cause analysis. He said medicine should be used in extre0me cases only, and should not be prescribed for everyone. Psychiatrist Dr   says talk therapy is useful post-medication. It is not possible for patients to stop medication instantly, and the dosage has to be reduced gradually, and while doing talk therapy.
 
 
