Ever since the parks reopened the gates, the newly renovated   and the adjoining Pherozeshah Mehta Garden, aka Hanging Gardens, has been seeing a steady stream of visitors from all over the country. 

 
 
 Looking enchanting in their new avatars, the lush greens landscapes interspersed with bright colours and quaint elements from fairytales instantly transports you into the pages of your favourite storybook. It is clear that the theme of the place is based on the nursery rhymes and children's books that we grow up on. So you'll find cane chairs as swings, a fish pond with lilies has replaced the fountain and the walls come alive with characters like Humpty Dumpty, Mowgli and others iconic characters that are popular with children. The roof of the gazebo, where the kids relax, has been painted into a galaxy of stars and milky way.
 The Ashoka Stambh stands tall surrounded by a huge flower bed, which is likely to be in tricolours. The rainbow-themed amphitheatre is another attraction for collegians who prefer to hang out here. Many visitors like to sit on the colourful steps and click selfies. The grill fencing has a mural of black-and-white sheep motifs.
  
  
 
 
 Though Reya Gurbaxani is now settled in Hyderabad, she returns to Mumbai and her favourite park where she’s spend her childhood, every summer with her two kids — Reyaan (8) and Diksha (5). “I have many childhood memories of playing in the garden with my parents. So, when I make my annual visit to Mumbai, I get my kids too during their summer vacations. It’s nice to see the renovated park and facilities. My children had fun in the park with its nursery rhymes in English, Hindi, and Marathi; my younger one, who’s just learning these nursery rhymes, had a gala time singing along to Ba Ba Black Sheep, Twinkle Twinkle Little Star, Macchli Jal Ki Rani Hai and Ye Re Ye Re Paavsa.”
  
 
 Corporate professional Parag Khanna feels that the park looks even more beautiful with bright colours. A regular jogger, he says, “My fitness instructor had once told me about impact of colours on the mood and the difference they make to fitness levels when you are exercising. With the dull backdrop giving way to bright colours and happy paintings, they have definitely put a zing to scenery. I think the new, clean look has also attracted more people to come and exercise in the outdoors. It has definitely added a spring to my step.”
  
  
 
 
 Meenakshi Bhat, a resident of Malabar Hill, is also happy with the makeover. “The Hanging Garden and Kamala Nehru Park are a blessing as they are those rare green spots in Mumbai, where you can sit and relax, go for a walk and hang out with your kids. Now that the park is back with a new clean look, it feels good to be back here to enjoy the surroundings. There seems to be more open spaces now within the garden. Earlier, the aerial view of   was limited, but now we can see the entire Queen’s Necklace in the evening,” she says.
 
 
 
 Vegetable vendor Akash Babu, who runs a stall of freshly cut cucumbers, says that the crowd has added to his business. “Earlier we had a steady stream of visitors, but this summer we saw many more people coming in after the park re-opened. There is an increase in tourists ever since the news of the park looking better has spread. We also have an equal number of city families coming in with their kids since the school vacations are on,” he reveals, adding that it’s going to remain the same in monsoons too. “Instead of cucumbers, I begin selling garam bhutta with a dash of salt and lime during the rains. The garden attracts crowds during monsoon as well; many couples come to enjoy the romantic mood in the greenery and rains here,” he says.
  
  
 
 
 The Old Woman’s Shoe, aka the ‘Boot House’ and ‘Mhataricha Boot’ is one of the main attractions. Made completely out of stone, it is inspired by the nursery rhyme, ‘There was an old woman who lived in a shoe’. Kids love running up and down the iconic structure. The shoe has now been painted in bright blue, red and white colours. It is must-visit for those high on selfies as you can peep out from the windows on reaching the top or stand and lean against the shoe.
 
 
