They’re Sandalwood’s most-loved couple and everyone looks up to the duo in times of need. Rebel Star   and his elegant wife   are considered the ideal couple by youngsters. The duo talked to us exclusively and shared what has kept their romance alive.
What do you love most about your spouse?
 Ambareesh: I love that she is such a caring person and I appreciate how she has been there for me and taken care of me. She is an intelligent woman and has put the family first in her priorities. Sumalatha: I love the fact that he has a big heart. He is one of the most giving people and puts others first, ahead of everything else, including himself. There are very few people who are so selfless in their nature.
 What’s the one thing that annoys you about the other, but is hard to change?
 Ambareesh: It has to be the fact that she visits the salon every second day. It might be for her hair, eyebrows or something else, she is always headed there. She also loves to shop. 
 Sumalatha: It is the fact that there is no privacy in his life. His nature is such that he allows everyone into his space and helps them out, sometimes not thinking that it might intrude into our personal space.
 What’s the secret for your strong and smooth   life?
 Ambareesh: We need to understand each other and stay together. Look at us, she is good and I am bad, but we stay together (laughs). 
 Sumalatha: It is a lot of patience. A lot of people think marriage is all about being lovey dovey and saying sweet nothings, being romantic, and going on dates and holidays. It is not just that. It is a lot of hard work, which needs to be put in every single day. People think that you invest something in the beginning of the marriage and that takes you through your entire life — that is the biggest misconception people have about marriage. It is a plant that needs watering every single day. It needs a lot of care. There will be hurdles and thorns, and you need to carefully weave those out. It is constant work. 
 What’s one relationship advice you would give youngsters?
 Ambareesh: Marriages are made in heaven, not online. These days, we keep reading so much about things that happen as a result of hasty decisions made by youngsters. Don’t give into unnecessary pressure. Marriages are sacred and sacrosanct. 
 Sumalatha: Be sure before you enter wedlock. I would rather see people not getting married than rushing in and getting separated, and having their kids put up with their mistakes. Instead of thinking once, think a hundred times. You can fall in love blindly and that is not a mistake, but when you’re getting married, do it with your eyes wide open. 
 
