Nagpur: After banning car parking on West High Court Road, the traffic police have banned all parking of two wheelers too Sitabuldi main road (Mahatma Gandhi Road) between Variety square and Loha Pul square from March 7. As an alternative, parking will be permitted on Tekdi road between Manas square and Morris College T-point. Parking of cars is already not allowed on this road.

 DCP (traffic) Chaitanya S issued a notification in this regard on March 3. The arrangement will   be for one month. Senior PI (traffic) Jayesh Bhandarkar told TOI entry of vehicles will continue as present from Variety square to Loha Pul/Manas square but they will not be allowed to park. “Penalty of Rs 200 will be levied if vehicles are parked here,” he said.
 
 On Tekdi road, two-wheeler parking will be permitted from Rajasthani Mahila Mandal to Saishanti Building on South side only. The notification said decision was taken to ease traffic congestion and parking problems on the road. It added as most shops here were very old there was no provisions for parking inside them. “Suggestions and objections from stakeholders will be considered,” DCP Chaitanya said.
 
 The road is 60-foot wide but actually only about 20 feet width is available for traffic. Ten feet space on both sides is occupied by parked two-wheelers while another 10 feet on both sides is taken by illegal hawkers.
 
 Hussain Nurallah Azani, a shopkeeper local, opposed the decision and said it would hamper business. “Police should act against illegal hawkers. This decision would actually encourage them. Already, customers coming by car have stopped coming to the market due to lack of parking space. Many do not come because of hawkers nuisance. Now two-wheeler customers will also stop as they will be required to walk 1km from parking place,” he said.
 
 Sanjeev Tare of NGO Ethicality Assurance Centre, that had prepared a report on easing congestion on this road, said the decision will affect the market and also citizens. “Police do not act against hawkers for reasons best known to them. Problems will only increase instead of reducing,” he said.
 
 Corporator and chairperson of NMC Dharampeth Zone Roopa Rai said decision will benefit people and shopkeepers by easing congestion. “No Parking has been successful on WHC road. Initially, many were upset but later accepted it. Now hawking zone should be set up,” she said.
 
 
