BELAGAVI/PANAJI: A day after Prime Minister Narendra   assured farmers of the region that the BJP would resolve the Mahadayi water dispute if the party came to power, BJP national president Amit   on Sunday set a six-month deadline to find a solution.

 Addressing a public rally at Belagavi's Savadatti, Shah said farmers of the district will get   water in their farms in the next six months, and blamed the   government for not doing enough to resolve the issue. Shah came out with this deadline after farmers, who attended his rally, forced him to speak on the issue. Belagavi MP Suresh Angadi translated Shah’s promise to the farmers in Kannada.
 
 In Goa, town and country planning minister and BJP ally Vijai Sardesai said that he is “not disturbed” by the statement. “We have to look at it as a political statement as an election is around the corner in the neighbouring state.” PWD minister Ramkrishna Dhavalikar, also a BJP ally, was not available for comment.
 
 “Had Siddaramaiah worked sincerely, farmers in   would have received water from the Mhadei without a fuss,” said Shah. “Bring B S Yeddyurappa to power and within six months, the Mhadei water dispute issue will be resolved,” he pledged.
 
 On Saturday, Modi had accused the Congress of misleading people in the name of Mhadei and of politicising the issue. "During a 2007 Goa Assembly poll campaign speech, then Congress President Sonia Gandhi had assured Goa that Mahadayi river water will not be shared," Modi said.
 
 Siddaramaian reacted sharply to the comment. “Modi attacked former AICC president Sonia Gandhi for delay in solving the Mahadayi issue," he said. "Sonia was never prime minister. It shows he is passing on his responsibility to others. What stopped him from resolving the issue in four years?” he asked.
 
 In December last year, chief minister Manohar Parrikar had written to Yeddyurappa expressing the Goa government’s willingness to hold bilateral talks with Karnataka for the supply of drinking water from the Mhadei river on “humanitarian grounds”. Siddaramaiah had slammed the letter as a ‘political gimmick’. Parrikar said that the bilateral agreement is worked out between the two states, it would then be placed before the tribunal.
 
 Meanwhile, the Goa Congress, reacting to Modi's statement that the issue could be resolved out of court, asked the three-member cabinet advisory committee (CAC) clarify on whether the Goa government supported Modi’s statement. “Within 72 hours, the CAC must issue a statement explaining if they support the prime minister’s statement calling for an out of court settlement on Mhadei,” Goa Pradesh Congress Committee president Girish Chodankar said.
 
 Modi’s statements, which were made during an election rally in Gadag, Karnataka, came in for sharp criticism from the Congress, which accused Modi of promoting a rift between Goa and Karnataka for mere electoral gains.
 
 “Narendra Modi is the nation’s prime minister. He has no role in the Mhadei water dispute,” Chodankar said.
 
 
