KOCHI: A 37-year-old woman had a harrowing experience as an   slapped her on the face as she questioned over pricing.

 The accused slapped the woman, a housewife who is pursuing an LLB degree, sohard that one of her tooth got damagedin the blow. According to police, the incident happened on Thursday afternoon. The accused had taken Rs10 extra from the woman passenger triggering an altercation between the duo, said police.
 
 
 The accused alsoharassed and abused her on the road as well, said police.
 
 Police said that the autodriver gothimself admittedto a hospital alleging that he was theone who got assaulted. However, by the time police reached the hospital he managed toescape and police are on the lookoutfor him.
 
 Aluva police have registered an FIR against the autodriver, who is yet to be identified. Policesaidthe accusedhas been booked under   (sexual harassment), 323 (causing hurt), 325 (causing grievous hurt) and 294 b (utteranceof obscene words) ofthe IPC.
 
 Man killed in accident :A 39-year-old man was killed in an accident late on Wednesday night in   . The deceased has been identified as Roy, a native of Poonjar. According to police, the incident happened when a   bus rammed a scooter head on at Angamaly.
 
 The deceasedwas heading to Chalakudy when the incident happened. According to police, Roy who was grievously injured died on the spot. The body was handed over to thekin after an autopsy.
 
 One held for robbery : A 20-year-old, who robbed an auto driver at knifepoint near   on Wednesday, was arrestedon Thursday.
 
 Shyam of Thrikkunnassery house, Mother Teresa Road, Chitoor was arrested by the police based on a complaint filed by the auto rickshaw driver Prasanth.
 
 According to the police, the accused boarded Prasanth's auto-rickshaw from South Railway station before robbing him.
 
 “The driver was taking him to the North railway station after heboardedthe auto. However, when the vehicle reached near NorthOverbridge, Shyam placed a knife around his neck and asked to hand over the things including his mobile and purse. He made the driver drop him near Vaduthala ROB at 2 am,” police said. The accused was producedbefore thecourt on Thursday.
 
