PATNA:  , food and public distribution Ram Vilas   has announced that the prices of essential foodgrains, including rice and wheat, meant for distribution to BPL families under the   scheme will not be revised till June 1, 2019. 

 
 Addressing media persons along with cabinet colleague Mansukh L. Mandaviya in Patna on Tuesday on the   government’s achievements in four years, Paswan said the National Food Security Act, 2013 provided for the revision of the rate after every three years of the 35kg of rationed foodgrains distributed under the  . “Though the has not been revised for five years, the   government has decided that it will not be increased till June 1 next year ,” Paswan said, adding around 81 crore PDS beneficiaries of the country would be benefited by this subsidized rate over the next one year.
 
 On the steps being taken to streamline the rationing process and reduce pilferages, Paswan said 82% ration cards across the country were linked to Aadhaar and 2.95 lakh PoS machines installed at ration shops. About 2.75 crore fake, duplicate and illegal ration cards have been detected, which all resulted in savings of around Rs 17,500 crore per year.
 
 He said the government was also working on the portability of foodgrain entitlements under the PDS so that eligible beneficiaries could get their quota of grains from any ration shop.
 
 Paswan said the government would provide 15kg wheat and rice per month to an estimated 1 crore students in all hostels with at least two-thirds of them belonging to SCs, STs and OBCs.
 
 Asked about protests over low ‘daal’ prices in Bihar, Paswan said a committee was being formed to look into the matter. Apparently, a section of farmers are demanding restrictions on import of pulses from other countries to avert a plunge in their prices. Paswan, however, said the government could not stop import of food grains owing to the international norms of the World Trade Organisation. “We can only enhance the duty on such items,” he said.
 
 Union minister of state for road transport and highway Mandaviya, on the other hand, talked about the infrastructure development in the country. “The budgetary expenditure of central government for infrastructure development has increased from Rs 1.5 lakh crore under the UPA government to Rs 6 lakh crore now,” he said.
 
 He said the national highways network in India increased from 92,851km in 2013-14 to 1,20,543km in 2017-18. The rate of construction of national highways also increased from 12km to 27km per day,” Mandaviya said.
 
 
