MUMBAI: Out of the eight students who were apprehended in the   case, the lone adult (19) among them was asked to stay back at the police station for further probe. 

 
  
  
 
 The police have found out that two tuition teachers, Firoz Ansari (42) and Muzzamil Kazi (27), who were arrested on March 22, the day of the leak, had got the ICT and three other question papers—Geography, Science, History & Political Science—from this 19-year-old. 
 
 The Saki Naka police said the 19-year-old got the Geography, Science, History & Political Science papers from his friend. But the police are yet to find out how he got hold of the ICT paper. 
 
 They suspect the role of two more adults in leaking it. The ICT paper leak came to light when teacher Vanita Shetty of Saint Jude High School in Kaju Pada, Saki Naka, caught two girls looking into their mobiles and referring to textbooks. On inquiring, Shetty found the ICT question paper on the girls’ mobiles. 
 
 Though the girls were allowed to write the exam, later they were taken to the Sakinaka police station and a case was registered. The same day, DCP Navinchandra Reddy along with senior inspector Avinash Dharmadhikari and inspector Sunil Mane arrested Ansari, who runs a private coaching class on Khairani Road in Sakinaka, and Kazi from Mira Road.
 
 The duo was produced before an Andheri court on Tuesday and their police custody was extended till March 31. As a link has emerged between the ICT and History & Political Science paper leak, the Saki Naka on Wednesday will take the custody of Anwarun Hasan and Firoz Khan (47) from the Amboli police. 
 
 Khan, allegedly the History & Political Science paper leak kingpin, is a teacher at a Mumbra school and also runs Brilliant Classes in Ambernath. 
 
 Besides Khan and Hasan, office boy Imran Shaikh (45) and tutor Rohit Singh have also been arrested for the March 19 paper leak. “Khan clicked picture of the papers at his Mumbra School and sent them to Singh and Hasan, who passed it on to his nephew and the 19-year-old. Hasan’s nephew too is a repeater candidate. 
 
 Board officials said that they are waiting for the police to trace the source of ICT paper leak before they start any inquiry. IPS officer-turned-lawyer Y PSingh said the   was right in instructing the police to release the minors on personal bond. 
 
 “The police simply have to make the accused sign the bail bond in the prescribed format and can release the accused without surety,” said Singh. 
 
 In the assembly, state education minister Vinod Tawde said that the state will take strict action against those who leak question papers. 
 
 Referring to reports of the board having changed an exam centre in Mumbra at last-minute, Tawde warned strong action action against officials who do so. He was replying to a debate on the incidents of copying at the recent HSC and SSC exams. The debate was initiated by NCP’s Vikram Kale. He said the role of teachers, education officials and coaching classes will be examined.
 
