PANAJI: Of the state’s 14   bodies, with the exception of Margao, Mormugao, Mapusa and the Corporation of the City of Panaji, the remaining 10 don’t have a full-time chief officer, and urban development minister Francis D’Souza blamed the low revenue collection of these councils and lack of adequate officers for this.

 D’Souza said the smaller councils depend on the government for grants and as such are unable to pay salaries of full-time chief officers, D’Souza said. The bigger issue, however, was that “the government doesn’t have adequate officers to post at all 14 council bodies”, D’Souza said.
 
 Usually, in case of smaller municipalities, a government officer holds the charge of chief officer in addition to his main duty and is not stationed at the municipal office, but visits it on a weekly basis. In this manner, the not-so-rich councils don’t incur an expense towards the salary component of the chief officer.
 
 The councils, however, are not happy about this arrangement and the urban development ministry continues to receive requests from councils asking for full-time chief officers saying their works are left pending. On Wednesday, D’Souza received such a request from the   municipal body.
 
 A source said that when any officer is given the additional charge of chief officer of a municipality, his main charge continues to remains a priority. “A council has to adjust and schedule its works in accordance to the availability of the chief officer during the two or three days of the week that he visits the municipal office,” the source said.
 
 A way out could be creation of a municipal cadre, D’Souza said, adding that members of the cadre could be rotated within councils. 
 
 Asked whether the councils would be satisfied with such an arrangement, D’Souza said he was not sure as councils, at times, demanded for a particular officer. 
 
 It has been a while that the department of urban development has been insisting that each municipal council set-up a revenue collection cell, but few have done so, so far.
 
 D’Souza said councils with independent chief officers are doing well and have increased their revenue collection.
 
 
  
 
 
