SALBONI: JSW Cement plans to invest Rs 400 crore to increase the production capacity at its Salboni cement plant from 2.4 MTPA to 3.6 MTPA (million tonnes per annum), besides setting up an 18 MW (mega watt) captive power plant in the same location, JSW Cement managing director Parth Jindal said on Sunday.

 “The current installed capacity at the Salboni plant is 2.4 MTPA. We plan to build another 1.2 MTPA capacity which will require Rs 300 crore. The construction will start after six months. The company has already started commercial production at Salboni in August, with an investment of Rs 800 crore on the 2.4 MTPA capacity. Presently, the total installed capacity of JSW Cement pan-India stands at 11.6 MTPA,” Jindal said, adding that another Rs 100 crore would be spent on the 18 MW captive power plant.
 
 Chief minister Mamata Banerjee would inaugurate the Salboni plant on Monday. Jindal said, “It will be a huge day for us. The team has worked hard for the last 24 months to develop Bengal’s largest cement plant — a world class asset dedicated to the development of  .”
 
 Ramping up production at the Salboni plant spread over 133 acres, Jindal indicated, is part of the company’s vision to build a cement capacity of 20 MTPA by 2020.
 
 Jindal said that JSW Cement would bid for the assets of Binani Cement and   which were with the   for a resolution. He said JSW would partner with private equities to bid for the assets of Binani Cement, having a capacity of 11 MTPA. The capacity of Kalyanpur Cement in Bihar is one MTPA.
 
 The Salboni plant was JSW Cement’s first foray in the eastern India markets. It boasts of producing the most eco-friendly type of cement which reduces harmful CO2 emissions, sources indicated.
 
 At the Salboni plant, the company has so far given jobs to 155 people from the families whose land was taken for the project. In addition, 300 people were recruited on a permanent basis. Company sources said among the 488 land losers, 300 had applied for employment. Among them 255 were skilled. The rest will also be absorbed in phases, a source said.
 
