AHMEDABAD: This February, the Union ministry for food and public distribution told the Lok Sabha that 1.6 lakh bogus ration cards had been invalidatedin   between 2013 and 2017, after the government began seeding   details and introduced biometric authentication in the public distribution system (PDS).

 According to a Press Information Bureau (PIB) release concerning the Union ministry, the Gujarat government was lethargic in acting against pilferage, as only 407 bogus ration cards were invalidatedbetween 2012 and 2014.
 
  
  
 
 In 2012, a study by   which collated data from the ministry for food and public distribution revealed that Gujarat had the fourth highest levels of pilferage of rice and wheat from the PDS in in 2012. Against 15.7 lakh metric tonnes of rice and wheat available to the PDS, at least 11.3 lakh metric tonnes was lost to leakages. Thus PDS leakages in Gujarat accounted for 72% of total procurement.
 
 Between 2012 and 2014, the state government invalidatedjust 407 bogus cards. Between 2014 and 2017, this number scaled up to more than 1.6 lakh of the 1.27 crore ration card-holding families in Gujarat. The proportion of PDS pilferage was highest in Manipur, Nagaland and Jharkhand.
 
  The situation has barely improved in Gujarat. Activists say the state civil supplies department’s claims of change caused by Aadhaar seeding are empty. This February, the state government found that its “digitally secured” PDS biometric database of beneficiaries was fraudulently used to lift subsidized foodgrain in their name and sell it in the market. Surat police arrested a software engineer and five accomplices in the case.
 
 Investigations revealed that rations was lifted using cards of prominent persons including the local MP, Darshana Jardosh. “The government’s claim is false. There are many villages in Gujarat where grain is still distributed using the PDS-biometric database, as many people do not have Aadhaar cards,” said Harinesh  , a PDS activist affiliated with the NGO Janpath.
 
 “At a village in Danta, we came across complaints that PDS store owners would refuse to provide printed coupons for grain that beneficiaries were entitled to and were instead giving them loose chits and then supplying poor quantity grain, saying that proper stock was not available,” Pandya said.
 
 He added, “The whole system is corrupt. How can inclusion of Aadhaar details stop this racket?” 
 
 Pandya pointed out that Aadhaar can only weed out bogus beneficiaries, not plug pilferage. “Despite having digital capabilities, the government does not put all stock data in the public domain — like details of foodgrain in godowns, stockists and PDS outlets. There is no reliable or responsive feedback mechanism where people can complain of about being given amounts less than they are entitled to.”
 
 The   administration tried to plug their PDS leakages by computerization, doorstep delivery of foodgrain, using Global Positioning System to track foodgrain movements and improve transparency. This system, after reducing PDS leakages also encouraged the government to increase coverage of households eligible for PDS cereals from 6.5 million to 12.3 million using its own resources in 2016.
 
 “Gujarat’s biometric bar-coded ration PDS coupon system has improved only the accountability and transparency of the Targeted Public Distribution System (TPDS) to ensure cardholders get their rightful rations and leakages are reduced,” said a senior civil supplies official.
 
 
