CHANDIGARH: Life is not over after marriage, says 56-year-old civil servant working in the ministry of defence, who is going to get her PhD degree at the annual convocation of   on March 4. When in her 20s,   was asked by her father to do three things: clear civil services, get married and get a PhD degree.

 She got married, appeared for civil services exam and got selected and joined the services after her marriage. However, her father always used to tell her: “You didn’t get a PhD degree.” After her father passed away in 1997, this thought of not doing a PhD kept on haunting her. So, after her children grew up, Nirupama enrolled in PhD at Panjab University and now will be getting her degree on Sunday. Her husband, whom she says is her biggest support system, and two children have especially come from Mumbai to attend the ceremony.
 
 Nirupama, controller, defence accounts (canteen stores department), ministry of defence, will get her PhD degree on her work on “role of managerial creativity and emotional intelligence one employee motivation, commitment and performance” and the results of her study show that these have positive impact on the employees.
 
 Nirupama had completed her master’s degree in psychology in 1982 from   and after a gap of 30 years, enrolled in PhD. After completing her postgraduation, she worked in an insurance firm and it was after her marriage that her husband cleared civil services. And then she also appeared for it and cleared the exam. “I would have my one-year-old daughter in my lap and I would prepare for the exams. I joined the ministry after I cleared the exam and went for this two-year training while my kids were small,” says Nirupama, who wants to motivate women to pursue their dreams irrespective of the hurdles they get in life.
 
 With this doctorate degree, now that her name would be prefixed with “Dr”, she says she would also add her husband’s surname Kajla to her name. Nirupama says her husband helped her complete her father’s dream.
 
 
