AHMEDABAD: There now exists a simple one-step method to detect bacterial contamination in municipal drinking water. Researchers at the Central Salt and Marine Chemicals Research Institute ( ) have developed a bacterial sensor to test for water contamination, which is so cheap that it will allow the test to be performed at at home.

 The scientist behind this innovation, Dr Soumya Haldar, will be awarded the “Biotech Product, Process Development and Commercialization Award, 2018” on Technology Day, May 11, by President Ram Nath Kovind in Delhi. The technology has already been licenced to a Tamil Nadu-based entrepreneur.
 
  
  The kit has a small container, the size of a vial, with a specialized sterile membrane strip within it that has a dye and a carbon source. It can detect live bacteria in any kind of water and mitigate risks to public health. The technology was developed by Haldar and his student, Sweta Binod Kumar.
 
 Haldar explains, “When the water to be tested for bacterial contamination is poured into a small tube (1ml) having this membrane, the bacteria in the water are attracted to the membrane. Subsequently, the bacteria begin to feed on the carbon source in the membrane resulting in a pH change in the water. This pH change changes the colour of the dye and turns the water from colourless to pink.” 
 
 The solution in the kit will takes about about 90 to 120 minutes if the bacterial contamination is low. This also depends on the ambient temperature. The solution stays colourless if there is no bacterial contamination.
 
 This simple kit can tell you if your RO system at home is eliminating bacteria. For municipal corporations, the kit can help the water supply department regulate the amount of chlorine infused into water sources, by giving an idea of level of bacterial contamination. For the millions who live in slums and villages, it can provide an early warning of bacterial contamination and prevent diarrhoea, dysentery or any other waterborne bacterial diseases. 
 
 Some common bacteria that contaminate water are Vibrio cholerae, Campylobacter, Salmonella and Escherichia coli (E. coli).
 
 
