ROPAR: The four-day Mahindra Baja SAE India event will underway at the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Ropar where around 60 teams and 1,500 engineering students from across the country have reached to participate.

 The registration of teams and meeting of the judges for the event was done on Thursday. The event will be inaugurated on Friday.
 
 The four-hour racing event of four-wheeled all-terrain vehicles (ATVs) will be flagged off on March 11 by   cabinet minister  . The racing event would be an excitement where the vehicles are subjected to severe endurance racing track covering 4.8 km per lap. The marks will be calculated with vehicles crossing the hurdles including jumps, banks, hilly area, tunnel, muddy patch, sandpit, sharp turns, slope, speed breakers, watery area, rocky area, an area with wooden logs, and others on the Endurance racing track. 
 
 The winning team of the event will be awarded Rs 2.5 lakh followed by Rs 1.5 lakh for the first runner-up and Rs 1 lakh for the second runner-up. The awards are divided into are the static, dynamic, and endurance event categories. Volvo India is extending its support to the event.
 
 The authorities at   claimed that proper medical arrangements have been made after tying up with the doctors and paramedical staff from Ropar and   districts.
 
 The dignitaries present at the occasion claimed that event was planned in the IIT Ropar as it has a good space whereas in the earlier events space remained a major hurdle. Before this the event was held at   near Indore, Madhya Pradesh in January this year on the National Automotive Test Tracks (NATRAX).
 
 Ahead of the start of this event, IIT Ropar director   said the event was aimed at helping IITians to enhance their dexterity in formulating new technologies. It is for the first time that such an event is being held in this part of the country.
 
 Punjab technical educational and industrial training minister Charanjit Singh Channi will be the chief guest at the opening ceremony along with  , managing director of Mahindra and Mahindra Limited..
 
 
