THRISSUR: The increasing number of appeals is turning out to be a big problem at the state school arts festival despite the efforts taken by the organizers to reduce them this year. On day two, director of public instructions (DPI) KV   said that the number of appeals touched 900. During the previous edition, the total number of appeals was 1,435.

 The festival schedule was derailed by the spate of appeals and competitions on day one went on till early hours of Sunday. Another problem the organisers are worried about is the report of fake appeals forged in the name of Kerala state commission for protection of child rights (KeSCPCR).
 
 “We tried several methods to reduce appeals, but numerous students and parents are not cooperating. We had introduced the grading system and scaled up the scoring level to secure an ‘A’ grade from 70% to 80%. Now, those who secured 70% are filing appeals to get 80% so that they can get an ‘A’ grade, instead of ‘B’,” said education minister C Raveendranath.
 
 Programme committee convener TV   said that nearly 3,422 students were participating at the festival on the basis of appeals that were sanctioned prior to the festival. “They include 388 appeals sanctioned by DDEs, 316 from lokayukta, 45 from lower courts and seven from the high court. In terms of events, the most number of students, participating here with the aid of appeals, were in   and Bharatanatyam. If you compare the figure district-wise in this context, the highest number of appeals were from Thrissur (548), followed by Palakkad (467) and Thiruvananthapuram (428),” he said.
 
 Meanwhile, Mohankumar said the organizing committee had received 20 appeals that were supposedly sanctioned by KeSCPCR.
 
 “Of the lot, 10 were forged. Those appeal sanction orders were signed by former registrar of the commission  , who had retired before June. We have passed on those orders to the commission and it will finalize what needs to be done. We don’t suspect a thing when such an order is presented to us. When we try to reduce foul plays, fraudsters come up with something new altogether,” he said.
 
 KeSCPCR chairperson Shoba Koshy said the commission has sent a list of few names (approved appeals) to the DPI so that he can exclude all those who do not figure in the list. Rest of the issues are being investigated, she said.
 
 The education minister said government will not ban appeals as it is a democratic norm. “The spate of appeals is a reflection of the unhealthy competition that is derailing the festival schedule. Appeals can be reduced only if students and parents cooperate voluntarily,” said Raveendranath.
 
 Mohankumar said steps were being taken to maintain the schedule by reducing the time gap between performances of contestants.
 
 However, he conceded that events such as drama – being held on Sunday – might go much beyond the planned schedule. Each group’s performance takes an hour, including the time required to set the stage, while the original schedule allotted is just 30 minutes.
 
 
