LUCKNOW: Chief minister Yogi Adityanath and his cabinet are all set to host the biggest congregation of business heads before the 2019 Lok Sabha elections in the presence of Prime Minister   and 18 Union ministers. The two-day Investors’ Summit at   would showcase the combined development agenda of   and Yogi.

 Thanks to political instability and thereafter politics of vendetta unleashed by the previous governments, UP has never been a favourable destination for investors, says a senior minister, adding “We have seen in the past that MoUs signed by one government was cancelled by the next, leaving investors in a lurch.” Yogi has taken up the challenge of mitigating this image and for this the state administration is leaving no stone unturned to make the summit a grand success.
 
 Besides, with the Lok Sabha elections less that a year away, it’s time for the BJP governments at the Centre and in UP to show how far they have succeeded in achieving the development goals Modi had set after victory in 2014. A big push in investment a few months before the elections will go a long way in projecting a positive image of the saffron party, says political analyst.
 
 The Yogi government has really worked hard to woo the investors, holding road show across the country in the past few months. Results are encouraging: Nearly 900 MoUs with an approximate value of Rs 3 lakh crore have already been inked before the start of the summit.
 
 “I am confident that after the kind of response shown by the   and top industrialists, UP will no more remain a sleeping giant, but a striding state,” remarked Industrial and Infrastructure Development Commissioner and additional chief secretary Anup Chandra Pandey, who has been working hard for over two months for its success.
 
 It’s probably the first such a joint exercise by the UP and the Centre and the biggest-ever being organized in the state, for which the Yogi government has drawn nine new policies for different sectors, including industrial and tourism. Similar exercises in the past where half-hearted ones, says an analyst. “In a similar exercise during the SP government in Mumbai, MoUs to the tune of Rs 65,000 crore were signed, but there was no follow up. During the BSP rule, the then CM Mayawati had once taken a planeload of officers from Lucknow to US and Switzerland in search of investment, but hardly anything fructified,” recalls a senior officer.
 
 “This time , we have signed with the serious players of the industry and a followup team has been formed by the chief minister for translating the MoUs into real investment,” says principal secretary, Khadi Gramodyog, Navneet Sehgal, who is also member of core team looking after the preparations.
 
 
