AHMEDABAD After a three-month hiatus, from April 15, the   will return to the four major cities of Gujarat - Ahmedabad, Vadodara, Surat and Rajkot. E-challans were discontinued from mid-January by the state government to first complete the City Surveillance and Intelligent Traffic Management System (CSITMS). City police’s traffic branch used to issue up to 5,000 e-challans on a daily basis.

 Pradipsinh Jadeja, MoS (home), on Saturday announced that 1,360 cameras in Ahmedabad will be generating the E-memo. “The system has been resumed and it aims at making the process more transparent,” he said.
 
 While Neerja Gotru, JCP (traffic), was not available for comment, traffic branch officials said that compared to the last leg, they expect more accountability this time around. Pressure from citizens had forced the government to review and upgrade the system.
 
 “Now it will be a two-tier system where challans generated on the basis of live video feed by constables will be reviewed by a team of supervisors for any probable errors related to vehicle number, vehicle type, type of offence and so on,” said a traffic branch official. He added, “To make the staff more accountable, all users have been given user-names and passwords so that we can ascertain who generated the said memo — something which was not possible so far,” said a traffic branch official.
 
 Another feature added is the grievance redressal (GR) cell, where citizens will be able to send complaints to traffic branch through email, WhatsApp or through letters about any error in an e-challan. It will be directly supervised by senior officials.
 
 
 
 Under the ambitious CSITMS project, the   ( ) shares the video feed with   on selected cameras. At the moment, 1,360 cameras cover 40 major city junctions. In the second phase, city police will get access to 1,200 additional cameras. Subsequent phases would see availability of another 4,000 cameras, taking the total number of cameras to 6,560.
 
 City police are in the process of setting up a new control room which will dramatically improve the space for video feeds. Experts believe that with increase in number of cameras and increase in staff, one can expect an increase in the number of echallans from May onwards.
 
 
