 is the first black chief constable to serve Britain. And now, buzz is that he is publishing a memoir titled 
  with  .

 Born in 1959 to Windrush-generation Jamaican immigrants, Fuller served an extensive career in policing. He also contributed in the formation of Operation Trident, which was formed to tackle Afro-Caribbean community's gun crime and gang warfare. He was later was appointed as chief constable of Kent.
 
 Fuller's memoir 
  is described as "the story of how one man’s battle with the injustice of personal and institutional racism led to an enduring passion for social justice". In his memoir, Fuller also writes about how he dealt with personal and institutional racism which he faced over 40 years. According to publisher 535, his story reflects "perseverance against the odds" and has an "unflinching take on race relations in the UK".
 
 Talking about his memoir, Fuller said, "As the UK draws ever closer to Brexit in 2019, my narrative questions what it means to belong, and if you can ever truly identify with a group which doesn’t see you as one of its own. I’d like to challenge and enlighten readers who don’t yet understand how it feels to be on the receiving end of mindless prejudice — be it overt and abusive, or of the more insidious, hidden variety. And to take those who already do on what I hope will be an equally compelling and thought-provoking personal journey."
 
 Joel Simons, Publisher- 535, acquired UK and Commonwealth rights from Mark Lucas at LAW, reported Thebookseller.com. "A story of displacement, identity and social justice, it is a timely reminder of how far we’ve come when dealing with these issues and how far we still need to go. Michael’s book will be forensic in its examination of race both on a very exciting crime-filled micro/street level, but also on a universal level, examining how we view ourselves culturally, sociologically and politically in a post-Brexit, alt-right infected world," Simons said.
 
 Fuller's memoir 
  is expected to be out in February 2019. 
 
 
