KANYAKUMARI: Actor and founder of Makkal Needhi Maiam (MNM)   on Wednesday began his three-day maiden political tour to the southern districts with a visit to Kanyakumari district. Haasan, who covered various place listened to grievances from public. 

 “As an actor I know the art of attracting the crowd. But I have not come here as a celebrity, to show my strength or to seek votes. I have come here to listen and understand your needs and to work out the best solutions for your long-pending issues,” he said.
 
 “This is an educational tour for me to come and understand you,” he told a gathering and added that he would be back for a crowd pulling exercise during elections. 
 
 Speaking at an event organised near the stadium in Nagercoil, Haasan said that a team of 17 experts from various fields in Harvard are working on solutions for issues faced by the people of  . He said that representations of the people here are sent to the experts who are from Tamil Nadu. “We are working on solutions for your issues and will give answers that will be satisfactory,” he added.
 
 “People who assumed that they can win anything with money have started losing,” Haasan said but preferred to not make many political statement. “Let us not talk about anything else (politics). The purpose of the tour is to work for the future. I will ask for votes later. I will meet you frequently,” he said.
 
 Earlier in the day, Haasan began his political journey from Gandhi Mandapam in Kanyakumari. Hundreds of tourists, shopkeepers, women and children thronged the MNM leader’s van. As they eagerly waited to listen to him speak he left the crowd disappointed by just thanking them for your affection.
 
 At Kanyakumari railway station he recalled his first trip to the district about 40 to 42 years ago as an actor. “Now I have come to see you, interact with you and understand the people,” he said before concluding his speech saying that his vehicle is causing traffic jams and left the place.
 
 In most places he made his speech very short as the party schedule stated that he would be travelling to 14 places.
 
 Meanwhile, Haasan who was heading to another place from Colachel came to the rescue of a woman who was injured in an accident and battling for life. He immediately stopped his vehicle, rushed to her help and sent her to the hospital in one of the vehicles in the convoy.
 
 
