A few years ago, the sight outside entrepreneur James Joseph’s house in Aluva was tens of jackfruits stacked on top of each other. Nobody even wanted to buy them even if they gave it for free. However, these days it’s a pleasing sight when along with the same stack is a person with a weighing machine selling the vegetable-cum-fruit.

 The change in the mind-set of the people bore fruit largely due to the efforts of   advocates such as James, who have been promoting its commercial viability and health benefits. And a few days ago, the State government too joined in, with plans of announcing jackfruit as the samsthana phalam.
 
 How will this move help the State, which is among the largest producers of jackfruit along with Karnataka and Maharashtra in India?
 
 
 
 
 Despite being one of the largest producers of jackfruit in the world, India has always faced flak from experts and scientists for neglecting it, with the Indian Council of Agricultural Research including it in the minor fruits category. Pankajakshan L, an official of the Jackfruit Promotion Council, says, “The State’s move will elevate it to the major fruits category, opening up more research for jackfruit. Not even a single part of it is useless and hence this will help make people more aware of each of its benefits and the commercial possibilities.”
 
  
  
 
 Right now, jackfruit is a highly under-researched natural product, not just in India but around the world, say experts. Development journalist Shree Padre, who has been instrumental in highlighting the importance of jackfruit in the country and abroad, says, “The whole world is aware that India is one of the largest producers of jackfruit and have the most varieties; and yet we are nowhere in the global value addition of jackfruit. The biggest obstacle earlier was that people considered jackfruit to be an 'inferior fruit' but that has now melted away. This State government’s move will also give it an identity and attention.”
 
 
 
 The samsthana phalam status doesn’t pertain to ripe jackfruit alone, but also its two other stages – as a tender fruit before the seed is hardened and as green or raw jackfruit, which is used as vegetable. All three stages have immense potential, reveals James Joseph, who owns a company that sells jackfruit in packaged, freeze-dried form and as flour.
 
 In Kerala, the green jackfruit is used as an alternative for rice and roti as it is rich in carbohydrates. “However, if you see it only as a vegetable or a fruit, you miss the bigger picture. Tender jackfruit, which is now being used as a dummy meat or vegan food is becoming huge in the West,” he says. “Meanwhile, the green jackfruit has low carbohydrate, low calorie and high fibre content. It is also highly satiating unlike other foods which have low calories.”
 
 A major aspect that James’ company cashes in on is that raw jackfruit has much lower glycemic load than rice and hence is good for diabetics; given that one third of Kerala’s population suffers from the chronic condition.
 
  
  
 
 Agreeing with him, Shree says, “In the West, jackfruit is now a super food due to these qualities. The whole world is going gaga over its use as a dummy meat. Also, it’s gluten-free and such foods fall in the premium bracket abroad. Last week in an exhibition in the US, jackfruit lovers were amazed by the attention it was getting from hotels and food outlets.”
 
 
 
 Despite growing jackfruit in abundance, India is yet to turn it into its advantage – like say how South East Asian countries have done with fruits such as durian. James explains, “People either hate durian or love it, just like ripe jackfruit. It has a pungent smell and is not even allowed in metros. And yet they have been able to market it as they play up on the people who like the fruit and its benefits. Also, it’s packaged in a carton and can be shrink-wrapped, making it easier for transportation.”
 
 Shree asks to look at a comparatively smaller country like Sri Lanka, which has 14 organisations giving training in jackfruit value addition. “In India, we don’t even have one,” he says. In the world, Mexico leads in the jackfruit production despite never having jackfruit in abundance like in Brazil or India, and Vietnam has close to 50,000 hectares under jackfruit cultivation.
 
  
  
 
 Kerala though enjoys an advantage. “When you grow jackfruit in farms, the trees become susceptible to fungus attack and pesticides have to be used. However, here we have wild, uncultivated  , and so they are even better than organic counterparts,” James explains.
 
 Meanwhile, Pankajakshan suggests increasing the area under cultivation of jackfruit. “Rubber’s demand has fallen and coconut trees are vulnerable to diseases. Hence, jackfruit will have better market than Neera as the trees are able to withstand the changing climatic conditions,” he says. “It’s a tree that doesn’t cheat its farmer.”
 
 
 
 Though Kerala has several varieties of jackfruit – with varikachakka, koozhachakka and thenvarika being the popular ones, Shree opines that nothing substantial is yet being done to exploit it for the benefit of local farmers.
 
 “If we can buy the technology that Malaysia uses to export minimal processed jackfruit in bulk, we can at least export our best red-fleshed varieties such as chembarathivarikka at least to North India,” he says.
 
 Concurring, James explains that it’s time that the State understood the commercial potential of jackfruit and acquired the tools and machines to make processing easier.
 
  
  
 
 “We still follow amateur marketing. Jackfruits are big, sticky and smelly. It takes 90 minutes and four hands to take all arils out of the jackfruit,” he says. “Decades ago, to make a chicken curry, people used to start by running behind a rooster; now you get chicken pieces over the counter. Similarly, ready-to-cook jackfruit slices must be available at the market. This can be done by promoting it as a healthy fruit.”
 
 Shree is of the opinion that “jackfruits have a high potential to augment Kerala’s rural economy”. “We send a massive amount of jackfruit outside Kerala, and then depend on other states for pesticide-ridden vegetables. If we use the jackfruit we are producing, we will be self-sufficient and healthy. So, I believe if jackfruit succeeds, Kerala will too.”
 
