In the latest episode of  , Chakor engages Suraj, who is being tortured by   and Ranvijay, into a conversation.   asks her as to why did she lie about escaping on her own from his captivity to save his life. Imli tells   that she knows that Chakor is lying and that she doesn't want to confront Chakor now but wait till next morning, when she plans to attack her.

 Suraj tells Chakor that Imli and Ranvijay will attack her and that he will not lie to them this time around. She tells him that since she is contesting in the elections they can't harm her. She asks him to promise that he will not say anything to them. Just then Imli and Ranvijay arrive on the scene. Chakor and Suraj hide behind a wall. Imli asks Ranvijay to have patience, Suraj is not related to Chakor. Ranvijay wants to kill Suraj but Imli stops him as she wants to use the former against Chakor.
 
 Ranvijay asks someone to keep an eye on Suraj and Chakor. Suraj tells Chakor that he is repenting for the wrongs he has done. He asks her to go. She asks him to make a new start and consider her as a friend if he can't consider her as his wife. Suraj says no to this and the a pot falls down which draws Ranvijay's attention. Suraj gets away from Chakor.
 
 Imli passes the food plate to someone from under the door. The woman, who is held captive inside the room, holds her hand and asks for Imli. The latter moves away without answering her.
 
  Chakor goes to the police station and sees Imli and Ranvijay with Suraj. Media asks Chakor did she beat up Suraj so much that he was about to die. Chakor says yes. Imli asks inspector to punish Chakor for attempting to kill Suraj. Chakor is arrested. Suraj comes to meet her and says that he has to deliver Imli's message.
 
 Suraj tells Chakor that Imli has made him file the report and he unwillingly had to do this, else her promise would have broken and she would have died.
 Imli and Ranvijay visit Chakor and Imli tells her that she can't stand in elections now. Ranvijay holds Chakor's neck as Suraj looks on.
 
 
