Trichy: With Indore, Bhopal and Chandigarh named the top three clean cities in the country by the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs (MoHUA) under Swachh Survekshan 2018 survey, Trichy’s failure to make the cut has come as a disappointment for the city corporation. While the complete rank list of the top 10 clean cities is yet to be released by Swachh Bharat Mission (SBM) urban, Trichy, touted as the cleanest city in Tamil Nadu, is still confident of figuring in it. MoHUA had in early August 2017 launched a timeline for preparing, participating and evaluating under Swachh Survekshan 2018, a survey to identify the cleanest cities across the nation. The number of participant cities soared from 434 in the 2017 survey to 500 (cities with population of 1 lakh and above) in 2018. A slew of changes were also made in the parameters, such as introduction of negative marks for dubious claims in cleanliness. On completion of the preparation period, team of officials deputed by SBM had toured the city between February 26 and 28 to ascertain the cleanliness.  Having figured among the top 10 clean cities in Swachh surveys since 2015, Swachh Survekshan 2018 was keenly followed by residents who hoped that the city would bag one of the top three slots. However, the results declared on Wednesday came as a setback for the officials and residents. “The result was quite disappointing as we were expecting one of the top three ranks. But residents acknowledge and appreciate our dedicated efforts to keep the city clean. We are awaiting the full list of the top 10 clean cities and are sure of securing a spot among them,” Corporation commissioner N Ravichandran told TOI. Corporation sources said that several cities including Visakhapatnam — considered as a tough competitor for Trichy — did not find a place among the 52 awards announced under different categories. Based on the data available on the Swachh Survekshan 2018 website, it was found that Trichy Corporation had fared well in citizen feedback category compared to the cities ranked as top 3. However, it seems that the civic body here is most likely to have lost marks in documentation and individual observation categories. 