COLVA: Panchayats in Salcete are yet to take cognizance of the sheer number of stray dogs and cattle that roam the beaches.

 Director, India Education, Mission Rabies, Dr   says that panchayats in Goa have not shown much interest in initiatives to curb this rising menace, this despite an order from the director of panchayats regarding the matter. 
 
 One of the objectives of the Mission Rabies campaign is “to boost the tourism industry due to reduced rabies menace in Goa” and secondly, “to ensure that the stray dogs do not proliferate, thus reducing their population”. However, Murugan says that this will not become a reality until the garbage situation is brought under control. “Sterilization drives have to be supported by adequate measures of garbage disposal as this is what stray dogs live on,” he says. 
 
 To this, panchayat bodies along the coastal belt say that collection of the garbage generated by shacks is the responsibility of the tourism department as it collects revenue from the shacks. On their part, sources in the department say that the garbage collection system is in place and that it is working fine.
 
 Colva ward pancha   said the issue of stray cattle was discussed during the panchayat meeting and that a decision was taken to engage an agent to take away the animals and shelter them in a pound as the Colva civic body does not have such a facility. On the stray dog menace, she said that while the government has initiated a program to vaccinate stray dogs against rabies, it should also put in place a mechanism to catch these dogs and provide them shelter as there have been incidents of dogs chasing and even biting tourists, especially children.
 
 Blaming the government for its inaction and lamenting the increase in the population of stray dogs, this season especially, former   sarpanch and current ward pancha,  , says, “If the government is not taking any initiative in this regard, what can we do at the panchayat level do? For the last two years the Benaulim panchayat has not carried out sterilization drives, but only informed the NGO Mission Rabies whose personnel went to the beach with dog nets, but were easily outrun by the strays on the open expanse of the seashore.”
 
 
