In the past two decades, she has done just a handful of films in Malayalam. But ask a Malayali about their favourite actresses, and   would definitely be on the top of the list, even for a teenager. The multiple national award winner, however, doesn’t really believe it when you tell it to her. ‘You are kidding me’, she says!
Shobana is prepping to create a docudrama now, and also putting together her memoirs for a book. The actress and dancer is as reclusive as ever about her personal life, but in an 
 interview, she shares her thoughts on new age films, dreams and more.
 
 
  
 Like most creative projects, it is still finding its way. It will be visual, with my notes on what shaped my art both as a practice and thoughts. It can also be a reference visual manual for Bharatanatyam as I do not have many DVDs on the subject.
 
 
 
 When I want to make a creative work, I still have producers of marketing houses dictating to me how I should make a creative video and what sells! If I face that problem, I can Imagine how difficult it must be for the rising generation of artistes to find sponsorships.
 
  
 
 
 A performance with an element of surprise and virtuosity in all the various streams of creation.
 
 
  Humbled and loved. A part of me wants to say, ‘No! you’re kidding me!’
 
 
 
 I don’t have the time or opportunity which is frustrating. I keep calling my nephew in Kochi to update me with the movies and their creative teams.
 
 
  
 Artistes are all motivated differently, with different experiences. The current generation cannot be combined into one category. Rather, I feel some have used previous, senior artistes as a learning experience and stepping stone, while some have been self-motivated. The artiste is also a product of who her audiences are.
 
 
 
 
 Of course, I would. It’s a sentiment that flows strongly in me, also strong enough to stay out of a film respectfully if I cannot contribute.
 But I’m always in films one way or the other. I watch English films on TV all the time (someone should curtail my gadget watching time). I write scripts, I read scripts, I meet people who chat about their scripts. So honestly, I don’t feel bad if I don’t act in a film, as long as people are making great films.
 
 
 
 Yes, I have always loved writing, whether you like my writing is the question which needs be seen.
  I unwind by watching TV which is also how I wind. I am at a point where I don’t actually have to ‘wind’ or ‘work’ – I embrace my work. The more I do what I like to do, the more I learn how to want nothing much else. The stressful part is the logistics of the work.
 
  
 
 
 I look forward to the day I don’t have to work for money.
 
 
 
  I am a person who likes to watch the outside world and when I do that, I find the world watching me back and that’s when I shrink into my space. I love watching people and the way they react and talk, their intonations as well as why they express what they do and how. I make it a point to be hugely fun loving in appearances!
 What you are on screen, if that is the real you, then it ceases to be acting. In films like Thenmaavin Kombath, the character came out because of the brilliance of Priyadarshan. Movie making is a pursuit of art of like-minded individuals.
 
 
 Most people are honest. I get irritated with myself when I realise I have been duped even with all my experience. My office has been chasing a wealthy construction baron for some money he owes me for being the brand ambassador. For three years, almost every day, the office keeps calling and they have all the energy to avoid and come up with an excuse. What to do!
 
 
 
 I intend to start a Bachelors and Masters Programme for Bharatanatyam for serious artistes as I feel artistes are unique and special people. I might need to tweak the learning format to make a difference to them.
 
