CHENNAI: If   wants   constituted at the earliest to ensure the timely release of water it has a strong justification. The 25-year water flowchart at  , the inter-state border, reveals that Karnataka failed to supply as per the tribunal verdict in the crucial months of June and September, but released double the amount in October, November and December, when northeast monsoon was active in Tamil Nadu. This forced a section of delta farmers to turn to water tankers, after over-exploiting the groundwater, to wet the standing crop.

 In the delta districts of Thanjavur, Nagapattinam, Tiruvarur, Cuddalore, Trichy, Karur, Ariyalur and Pudukottai, the peak sowing season of kar/kuruvai/sornavari begins in April, May and June, and the harvest ends in October. The sowing of long- term samba or short-term thaladi is cultivated between September and February. With both monsoons playing havoc in the recent years, Tamil   knocked the doors of the   repeatedly. The situation turned worse and a high-level team was constituted by the court in 2016 to look into the status of standing crop. Nevertheless, Tamil Nadu alleged that Karnataka failed to comply with court orders. 
 
 The state received excess in years when the reservoirs overflowed due to heavy rainfall or after repeated court interventions. “Only six times in the last 25 years, Karnataka released more than the stipulated quantum in June and July for the kuruvai crop, even as much of the rain Karnataka received was during this period (when southwest monsoon was active),” said a senior government official. Tamil Nadu did not expect the court to alter the tribunal’s final award when it moved SC with an appeal in 2007 challenging it. The tribunal had ordered 192tmcft at Biligundulu every water year, breaking it down into monthly schedule. This itself is a reduction from the initial allocation of 205tmcft given by the same tribunal in its interim award in 1991. 
 
 The Vajpayee government set up Cauvery River Authority seven years later to implement the interim award after a prolonged struggle by Tamil Nadu. Nothing fructified even after that. “Before 1990s, there would be a regular flow in Cauvery. Opening and shutting down of sluices of Mettur dam were appropriate. Lack of water release by Karnataka and over exploitation of groundwater resulted in sea water intrusion. Let the board be set up fast and streamline the release. Crop on five lakh acres are withering,” said  , general secretary V Dhanapalan. 
 
 
