MUMBAI: The promoter holding in the troubled healthcare company   has fallen to an all-time low of 3% from about 8.6% just three weeks ago and 34.4% at the end of December 2017, thanks to the invocation of pledged shares by financiers like  ,  ,   and Indiabulls Housing Finance.

 
 Disclosures on the BSE showed that after financiers invoked the pledged shares earlier this week, acquiring nearly 1.5 crore Fortis shares, the promoters now hold just about 1.6 crore shares, valued at about Rs 226 crore.
 
 In the last few days, some of the financiers for the pledged Fortis shares sold those in the open market. Additionally, some financiers of pledged shares are also in the process of transferring those in their names for offloading at a future date, market players said.
 
 
  
 
 On Tuesday, IDBI Trusteeship informed the BSE that it has already transferred about 6% of Fortis shares to finance companies which had lent money to the promoters against those shares. 
 
 On the same day, official data on the bourses showed that ECL Finance, an arm of the Edelweiss group, sold nearly 1.5 crore Fortis shares for about Rs 210 crore. About half of what ECL Finance sold was bought by French banking major  , taking its aggregate shareholding to above 5% from 3.44% as of end-December 2017. There is talk in the market that some private equity investors may plan to pick up large chunks of the pledged shares that the financiers are putting on the block.
 
 In an unrelated development, the Delhi-headquartered company was recently attacked by proxy advisory firm InGovern, which has likened the happenings at Fortis to   Computer under its erstwhile promoter B Ramalinga Raju and the   when it was under Vijay Mallya. Elaborating, it said, “We are seeing a repeat of what happened at Satyam and UB Group at Fortis. Fortis recently admitted having ‘deployed’ funds of Rs 473 crore with companies (that became promoter-owned companies) by terming them as ‘secured short-term investments in normal course of treasury operations’.”
 
 The InGovern report noted that Fortis did not notify the stock exchanges either at the time of deploying these funds or when the entities became promoter entities, nor did they seek mandatory shareholder approval by routing the funds through a subsidiary. Further, it said there is a possible violation of Indian Accounting Standards by classifying loans and advances to related parties (these promoter entities) as cash and equivalents.
 
 Reacting to the InGovern report, Fortis said that the proxy advisory firm had made “certain insinuations” which were believed to be misleading and done with questionable intent. “We take exception to any comparison with Satyam and UB Group as we believe that it’s a highly unfair allegation,” the company said in a statement.
 
 Fortis is considering to undertake appropriate action against the publisher of the report. “The company has and will continue to fully co-operate with all regulatory authorities and continues to furnish all information as required by them,” it said.
 
 On Thursday, Fortis shares on the BSE closed 6% lower at Rs 146.
 
 
