At a time when 
  like ' ', ' ', and 
  like 'Raazi', 'Parmanu: The Story of Pokhran' and '
 ' are running successfully in cinemas, a 
 , '
 ', also has a considerable number of shows across cinemas in NCR. In fact, in the last few weeks, films like '
 ', '
 ', '
 ' and '
 ' have also had an average occupancy of over 85% in cinemas across Delhi, Noida and Gurgaon. Exhibitors tell us that they’ve also become increasingly dependent on Punjabi movies to pack cinema halls. They say that a Punjabi film, coupled with good content and cast, does well across all of NCR, and not just west Delhi.

  
   
 
 
 Pollywood has secured a good position in NCR in the last two years, and now, over 50-70 shows are screened almost every day in Delhi, Noida and Gurgaon. The lines of consumption of regional cinema across areas in NCR have also blurred – earlier, cinema from a particular state gained viewers in certain areas in the capital. For example, west Delhi is one area where   were popular, but that popularity has extended to other areas in the city as well. Actress  , who has acted in several Punjabi films, tells us, “Content has changed, and now Punjabi films are houseful not just in west Delhi, but in south Delhi, too.” Citing an example, a cinema manager says, “If you look at the movie listing pages of booking websites, you’ll find Punjabi films next to Hindi and English in NCR, and this positioning is only because of their growing popularity.”
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
 Actors like Diljit Dosanjh and   have a good fan-following in north India, and when they promote their projects on social media, it creates a buzz among fans outside Punjab as well. Reality shows play a role, too. Joginder Mahajan, a Delhi-based film distributor, says, “A number of Punjabi film actors are part of TV reality shows, and that’s why they have a good fan following. We receive a lot of feedback from the audience in Delhi saying that they went for a Punjabi film only after they spotted a known face on the hoarding.”
 
 Yogesh Raizada, Corporate Head, Wave Cinemas, tells us, “The producers of Punjabi films bank on this familiarity formula, and going by the packed cinema halls, it seems that casting recognisable faces has indeed proved to be fruitful.” 
 
 The most successful 
  in recent times had a combo of good content and famous actors. 'Lahoriya', starring Sargun Mehta, and 'Manje Bistre', starring Gippy Grewal, are examples. A Chandigarh-based distributor says, “Star power definitely works. When a moviegoer – who otherwise is not interested in a Punjabi film – sees a familiar face like Jimmy Shergill or Diljit Dosanjh on a poster, he wants to watch it. But star power alone doesn’t run regional films. Another reason why Punjabi films are doing well in Delhi now is because till a few years back, most Punjabi films were only comedies, but now, the industry is working on other kinds of content as well.” 
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
 Cinema owners say that in a week when many Bollywood and Hollywood films are lined up, there are still 50-60 shows allotted to a Punjabi film. Yogesh Raizada adds, “The success of Udta Punjab also has had a major contribution in triggering more interest in Punjabi cinema. Now, Punjabi films have more viewership than before.” 
 
 Agrees Sargun, whose film 'Lahoriye' got a huge response in Delhi. She says, “What has changed is that Punjabi films have travelled from west Delhi to south Delhi. For me, Delhi is Punjab. Another visible shift is that earlier, Punjabi films used to have only 30-40 shows per day in Delhi, and now, my films have around 100 shows a day.” Kamal Gianchandani, CEO, PVR Pictures, says, “Screens are allotted to Punjabi films majorly on the basis of the pre-release buzz and the popularity of the actors. Music also plays a key role in the success of Punjabi films. In NCR, stars like Diljit Dosanjh, Gippy Grewal, Amrinder Gill are capable of drawing more audiences into cinemas. However, films which have good content, like 'Laung Laachi' or 'Golak Bugni Bank Te Batua', also do well.”
 
 Another Chandigarh-based distributor tells us, “Rather than going for an average Bollywood film, moviegoers prefer watching a good Punjabi film, and here’s where they score. Also, Punjabi is more widely understood among Delhiites as compared to any other regional language.” 
 
  
  Amrinder Gill and Sargun Mehta in Lahoriye, a Punjabi film which had a good run in Delhi theatres
 
 
 
 Cinema managers say that till two years back, the consumption of regional cinema was segregated by areas. The linguistic film division was so clear that regional films used to be screened on the basis of the area, with west Delhi having the most viewership for Punjabi films, south Delhi for Bengali, and Noida and Gurgaon for Tamil, Telugu, and Malayalam films. But now, it’s more Bollywood versus Pollywood. Tinku Singh, group president and chief strategy officer, SRS Cinemas, says, “It’s true that we have seen a visible shift, rather a dilution of linguistic divide. Now, the films are screened on the basis of content. Punjabi films are not screened only in west Delhi anymore. Punjabi films are doing well in south Delhi and Gurgaon as well.
 
  
  Sajjan Singh Rangroot, starring Diljit Dosanjh
 
 Agrees Rahul Kadbet, programming head, Carnival Cinemas. He says, “Theoretically, you would assume that if it’s a Punjabi film, it will do well in west Delhi, but we have cinema halls like Odeon in CP or in Noida where we have single screens, and even then, we allot screens to Punjabi films because of the demand.” Punjabi films have been doing well in south Delhi too, being run with dubbed or subtitled versions and sometimes even without them.
 
  
  The sequel of Carry On Jatta have received a good response from the Delhi audience
 
  
  
  
  
 
