

  
 
 
  
 Ranjon Ghoshal
 
  
 Aritra Biswas, Sagnik Sinha, Aditya Tiwari, Vandana Dugar, Sanjukta Deb, Shivam Kataria, Sanjay AR, Jacob Mammen, Aman Shah, Arun Kumar, Dipannita Das, Prithesh Bhandary, Nitesh Varma, Bhumika Mane and Shibani
 
  
  English
 
  
  Comedy
 
  
  100 minutes
 
  
  ***
 
  
 
  An English translation of actor-playwright Manoj Mitra’s 1970s Bengali classic 
 , 
  follows the quirky life events of 95-year-old Bancha Kapali, whose beautiful fruit garden is a major object of envy in the village. From his own grandson to a feudal lord and his family, a petty thief and even a ghost, nobody can get enough of the tempting sights of the foliage and fruits. The narrative is a humorous journey of who tries how many ways to trick this naive orchardist and acquire the plot of land. Directed by Ranjon Ghoshal, the play is presented by  , in association with Forum Three. 
 
  
  That old man is just not dying. This particular thought resonates through the performance, as Bancha (played by  ) manages to shoo the tricksters away even with one foot in the grave. Peppered with laugh-inducing dialogues, a blinding play of colourful lights and actors using different platforms as the stage make the production an exciting experience for the audience. The orchard setting is unmissable, and so is the wobbly thatch door. Throughout the play, one stays intrigued — whether to sympathise with the frail chap and or marvel at his wisdom. The superimposing influence of a white-haired, old zamindar ghost (played by Vishnu Mohan) is cleverly juxtaposed with a series of misfortunes of the present zamindar Nakori Dutta (essayed by Sagnik Sinha), who gets too many people into the scene — a bluffing astrologer, an inefficient doctor, a housewife and a tantric priest, among others — to get the gardener out of his way. The narrative is a heady display of idiosyncrasies, leaving not a single dull moment for the spectators. 
 Shivam Kataria shines in two roles (Hontka-Kontka), while Prithesh Bhandary (as Gupi) is just too funny. Sanjukta Deb and Bhumika Mane are convincing in their roles as Padma and Ginni, respectively. A bicycle also comes into the scene somewhere, while a famous Elvis Presley number strikes a chord with the audience. Aritra, however, surpasses every character on stage. He impresses not just with his quirks, but also with his red socks, pink silk kurta and a cashmere shawl. 
 
  
  The first half of the play, at certain points, gives you an impression of a somewhat slow narrative. But the inherent humour manages to salvage it in the second half of the performance. For Bengaluru audience, the old-world Bengali setup may have appeared a little baffling, but the gap is bridged well by the actors.
 
 
