NEW DELHI:   will hold ‘open day’ sessions from May 21 to May 29 (except for Sundays) to explain to aspirants its   procedure, cut-offs and other aspects of the online admission.

 The sessions will be conducted twice daily — from 10am to 11.30am and from noon to 1.30pm. “The purpose of the open day is to provide candidates an opportunity to clear any doubts regarding the Delhi University admission process. A number of aspirants avoid filling up the forms till they get an insight of the process on open days,” a university official said.
 
 Delhi University will be showing a presentation to students at the open day session.
 
 This presentation will entail admission details as well as information about the university, its academic and extracurricular life.
 
 Post-presentation, the aspirants will get a real-time display of how to fill the admission form.
 
 With certain new additions to the form this year —merger of both entrance and merit-based application in a single form —   will try to make it easier for aspirants to understand the entire procedure.
 
 Since the opening of the online admission portal on May 15, the varsity has seen a surge in registration that had reached up to about 1.5 lakh aspirants, applying for both merit and entrance based courses, by Sunday evening. This number is only expected to rise further as   results are expected within the next week, while the open day sessions will be in progress.
 
 “Even though they have the information bulletin at their disposal, aspirants often wait for open days to get a better idea before filling their forms. Many also wait for CBSE results as it gives them an idea of their chances and the kind of cut-off they would expect from their preferred colleges,” a DU official told TOI.
 
 Going by the trends over the last few years, students often enquire about their chances at a particular course; especially BCom (Honours) as many of them do not have mathematics in their Class XII. “A number of aspirants also ask about changing their streams, which we explain to them as it is a complex issue because of all the deductions they would get in case of a stream change. We also advise them to put the option of Class XII marks as ‘awaited’, while filling the form,” the official added. Meanwhile, admissions for MPhil and PhD programme, due to begin on May 20, has been postponed to May 22, while the tentative dates for entrance exams of both Masters and research courses are out on the website.
 
