Panaji: In a major embarrassment to the state government, correspondence showed that   minister Manohar Azgaonkar was well aware of the Union ministry’s move to implement the ‘Adopt a Heritage’ scheme in the state even as the state government said it would take a decision on the matter on Monday.

 Goa Pradesh Congress Committee president Girish Chodankar released three documents showing that the scheme was not only discussed with the state tourism and archives department, but also came up for discussion in the Lok Sabha where Goa has two MPs, both from the BJP.
 
 The documents now put the onus on the BJP to explain recent statements made by cabinet members and state BJP president Vinay Tendulkar. The BJP-led coalition government and the BJP have claimed that they were unaware of the plan. 
 
 The documents show that minister for state for tourism, K J Alphons, wrote to chief minister Manohar Parrikar on December 28, 2017 and to Azgaonkar on January 29 this year seeking inputs from the state.
 
 “It is informed that the government of Goa is pleased to extend necessary cooperation to the noble initiative undertaken by the Union ministry of tourism for development and maintenance of world-class tourist infrastructure and amenities at the heritage   and tourist sites,” Azgaonkar wrote on March 29 in his response to Alphons’ letter.
 
 When reached for a comment, Azgaonkar said that he was travelling and would not be able to respond to the Congress’ allegations.
 
 Azgaonkar, in his letter, also says that the state ministry of archives and archeology has prepared a list of heritage monuments and sites which could be taken up under the central government scheme.
 
 Minister for archives, Vijai Sardesai stood by his statement that he was in the dark on the issue but accepted that the department of archives and archeology was aware of the Union ministry’s scheme. “On inquiry, I have understood that the director had prepared a list for the ‘Adopt a Heritage’ scheme. However, the list had only four forts and I don’t know where the churches came from.”
 
 One document showed that director of archives and archaeology Blossom Medeira had prepared a list of four forts in the state which could be taken up for adoption by private companies in phase II of the scheme. Sardesai said that adoption of forts could be considered.
 
 The state government will meet with all stakeholders on Monday to decide on the contentious plan to allow two private agencies to maintain and create tourist amenities at heritage sites in Goa. 
 
 “The government will take a stand on this issue,” Sardesai told TOI, adding that he had suo motu spoken to stakeholders last week itself.
 
 Sardesai will chair a meeting at 12pm in the ministerial block with officials from the tourism department, department of archives and archaeology, Cumbarjua MLA and power minister Pandurang Madkaikar, the parish priest of Se Cathedral, the rector of the Basilica of Bom Jesus, senior representatives of the Archdiocese of Goa and Daman, and the Archeological Survey of India.
 
 “From what I know, Se Cathedral and the Basilica are under ASI’s maintenance, but they are not owned by ASI,” Sardesai said. “ASI cannot unilaterally take a stand and hand over these religious sites to someone.”
 
 The Union ministry of tourism floated a project for development of tourist-friendly destinations in September 2017, wherein corporate entities would be allowed to adopt heritage sites after inking an agreement with the ministry.
 
 The   cluster of 11 churches and Aguada Fort and lighthouse have been listed for adoption in phase II, while the Basilica of Bom Jesus will be taken up in phase III.
 
 Chodankar, meanwhile, kept up his attack on the government. “This is how they mislead and lie to the people,” he said. “They have no moral right to continue as ministers.” He said that the Congress was not against private entities maintaining heritage monuments or providing tourist amenities, but ownership should remain with the state government.
 
 
