CUTTACK: Manpower shortage has come to affect the free   services at   after the state government announced its launch under Sahaya scheme from January 1. 

 SCB, the state's premier referral hospital, receives over 40 patients for dialysis on any given day and after introduction of Sahaya scheme, inflow of patients has increased manifold. On Tuesday, 60 patients availed dialysis facility, but due to manpower shortage, authorities had a tough time dealing with the cases.
 
 There are at least 22 dialysis units in the nephrology department of SCB, of which two are exclusively used for kidney transplant patients. However, there is only one technician to run the units. Similarly, there are only 14 nurses to manage 35 beds in the nephrology department and 22 dialysis units. 
 
 Authorities stated that all kinds of critical cases from across the state and even neighbouring states are referred to SCB. "Dialysis has become free of cost from January 1 following which patients inflow has increased and will rise further in the coming days. But we are ill-equipped to deal with the situation. Currently, we are engaging PG students to manage the dialysis units as there is only one technician and few nurses in the department," said a senior doctor of the hospital.
 
 "We are running the dialysis machines in two shifts, but if more technician and nurses are provided then the machines can be used round the clock and thousands of poor patients will be benefited," added the doctor on condition of anonymity. 
 
 Even posts of three senior resident doctors and two assistant professors are lying vacant in the nephrology department. At present, three senior doctors and nine post graduate students are manning the department. Sources said proposal seeking additional manpower has been sent to the state government.
 
 "If at the ground level there is shortage of manpower and machines then how will people benefit from such schemes," said  , a social worker.
 
 Authorities claimed that they are managing the situation well. "Patients are being provided appropriate services," said professor of nephrology department Dr Chitta Ranjan Kar. 
 
 
