PATNA: Gold House bagged the team championship trophy at the 47th annual sports of St Michael’s High School on Sunday.

 Individual champion trophies were awarded to Arsh Arya (Class V), Supriya Raj (Class V), Aryan (Class VII), Divya Shikha (Class VII), Ishika Kumari (Class VIII), Ritik Harsh (Class IX), Sakshi Deonath (Class IX), Manvi (Class XI) and Abhishek Cyril (Class XII).
 
 Over 3,000 students participated in various sports events. Koustav Chandra (Class I) and Joshua Hansda (Class II) won the 75m race in the boys’ category while Aradhya Singh (Class I) and Ananya Singh (Class II) excelled in the girls’ category. Class III students Arsh Suman and Anisha Tirkey and Shivam Kumar and Aliya Akhtar of Class IV walked away with trophies in the 100m race. Nimesh Krishna and Divya Shikha, Ritik Harsh and Ishika Kumari as well as Sidak Singh and Manvi won prizes in the junior, inters and senior categories of the 100m race, respectively.
 
 Sakshi Jain and Aditya Verma won the 100m hurdle race in the girls’ and boys’ categories, respectively. While Pratik Sinha and Nabihya got prizes in sack race, Rajni Bhardwaj and Abhyuday Rai were declared winners in bursting the balloon event.
 
 Gold House bagged trophies in the 4X100m relay race in both the girls’ and boys’ categories for seniors. Gold House (boys) and Green House (girls) excelled in the relay race for inters. In tug of war, Green House got the prize in boys’ category whereas Gold House bagged the prize in girls’ category.
 
 CBSE regional officer (Bihar and Jharkhand) Lakhan Lal Meena, who was the chief guest of the event, congratulated the students for their wonderful performances. He also distributed prizes among the winners and talked about the importance of competition and team spirit. While district sports officer Sanjay Kumar was the guest of honour, Hartman’s Higher Secondary School principal Sr Mary Ramya SND was the special guest.
 
 Events like PT drill (Classes I to III), karate display (Class V), flower drill (Class VI), prop drill (Class VII) and bamboo dance (Class VIII) were appreciated by all.
 
 School principal Fr Armstrong Edison SJ, vice-principal Fr Prakash Antony SJ, sports teachers Saurav Deep, Amrish Kumar Jha, Prateeksha Dwivedi, Neeraj Kumar and non-teaching staff, among others attended the annual sports event.
 
 
