MADURAI: The Madras high court Madurai bench on Wednesday reserved its order on a batch of petitions filed by shopkeepers from temples in many districts against the Hindu religious and charitable endowments (HR&CE) departments drive to evict shops. On March 22, one of the judges of the Madras high court had directed the HR&CE to evict all commercial establishments inside temple premises in the state.

 After hearing all sides, justice V   reserved the orders by extending an earlier order directing the HR&CE not to disturb the shopkeepers till then. 
 
 Against the eviction drive, 46 people from Arulmigu Nachiyar temple (Srivilliputur), 23 from Arulmigu Thayumanava Swamy temple ( ), 4 from Arulmigu Aranganathar Swamy temple (Trichy), 10 from   temple ( ) and 32 from   temple ( ) had filed cases.
 
 Commissioner of the HR&CE commissioner, in her counter said that subsequent to the fire accident at   temple in Madurai, the chief minister convened a meeting with officials concerned, in which as a matter of policy decision, it was decided to evict all the shops inside and appurtenant to the temple premises of all big temples of the state. It was also instructed to consider the feasibility of providing alternative places to the shopkeepers. This was to ensure the fullest safety from recurrences of such untoward incident. 
 
 The shopkeepers are seeking alternative accommodations. Wherever places are available the authorities will provide them not as a right, but as a concession. If there is no place available, the petitioners have to decide their lookout. 
 
 At present, out of five temples, alternative sites are available only for two temples in Tirunelveli, the commissioner said.
 
 Stating that the shopkeepers have been given due opportunity and sufficient time to vacate the shops, the commissioner said the main submission of the shopkeepers was without following procedure prescribed under Section 34B of 78 or 80 of the HR&CE Act, the authorities could not evict them, but those provisions are not applicable to the cases on hand.
 
 
