NEW DELHI: The   has decided to earmark space in residential   for parking. However, residents will have to park in the nearby areas if the number of vehicles in a colony exceeds the capacity of the   lot. 

 
 Senior officials said a meeting was held with the resident welfare associations (RWA) of Lajpat Nagar and   and the civic body has given them three days to submit their representation on the number of vehicles in their colonies. 
 
 “We will hold more such meetings and invite RWAS’ suggestions, which will be incorporated in the new parking policy. The idea is to ensure that there is no congestion in residential areas and there is space for pedestrians as well as for essential service vehicles,” said a senior official. 
 
 No parking fee will be charged from residents. But spaces will be marked and vehicles parking illegally will be fined, the official added. Sources said that the two other corporations were also unlikely to charge any parking fee in the residential colonies. 
 
 The draft notification prepared by the Delhi government has suggested that the local bodies take charges for night parking on roads in the residential areas. It has proposed that a household may not be allowed to park more than two to three cars on roads at night. The draft has also suggested that the local bodies may consider norms for permission of parking of private vehicles in residential areas on the basis of the size of a plot. 
 
 Senior corporation officials claimed that the policy was being worked out by its committee and base parking rates were yet to be finalised. “As per the policy, we will introduce a parking rate system based on the footfall of a particular area. For congested areas, the rates will be higher to ensure people do not park unnecessarily. The rates will also be higher during peak hours,” he said. Once the rates are finalised, the corporation’s House will have to approve them for implementation.
 
 However, in every colony the number of vehicles is more than the space available and residents termed this decision “illogical”. Chetan Sharma, general secretary of Confederation of NCR RWA (CONRWA), said the idea won’t be successful as it was not practical. “There is no space available in any locality and even if residents have to park their vehicles in nearby localities, there will be chaos and fights across the capital. The civic body needs to revise its decision,” said Sharma.
 
 B M Bakshi, RWA president of  , pointed out that even eight years after the multilevel parking lot was commissioned in the area, the civic body has failed to complete it. “This could have eased out the traffic problem. Now they are coming up with another policy, which will only add to the chaos,” said Bakshi. 
 
