JAIPUR: Chief minister Vasundhara Raje’s ambitious Dravyavati river project is expected to be completed by August 15. 

 Tata Projects Limited, which has been awarded the work to develop the project, claims that 70% civil work has been completed and deadline of the project will be met on stipulated time. 
 
 Naresh Sharma, head (marketing and communication), Tata Project Limited, said, “We are confident to complete the civil work by August 15. Beautification work and plantation of trees would take a little bit time,” he said.
 
 Explaining benefit of the project after its completion, Tata representatives said, development of river will result in cleaner, clearer, odourless flowing water, suitable for aquatic life and in the creation of riverfront with better aesthetic surroundings. This would result in appreciation in land value and improvement in the health of the citizens.
 
 “Five Sewage Treatment Plants (STP), with a cumulative capacity of 170 megalitres per day (Mld), will be developed under the project. The   will treat the sewage, currently entering the nullah and discharge treated water into the channel to ensure a continuous flow of clean water. These STPs will be installed by May and water testing will be started for 45 days. For the first time in the state Sequential Batch Reactor ( ) technology to treat the sewage will be used,” he said.
 
 Other than improving the aesthetics of the surrounding land parcels all along the river, it would also result in reclamation of government land of approximately 8.5 lakh square metres that can be used for various activities such as group housing, public parks and other civic amenities. 
 
 “Most of the land that would be reclaimed as well as that which would appreciate due to the rejuvenation belong to   and other government departments such as RIICO, RHB, PHED and Irrigation,” reads the report 
 
 Under the project the state government has also proposed to increase the greenery, which would not improve the lifestyle of the residents, but also provide a healthy environment.
 
 “It is proposed to develop three fully landscaped parks with a total area approx. 1 lac sqm) with integral facilities such as sitting space with ornate benches, toilets, LED street lights CCTV for security, vendor space and drinking water kiosks. Nearly 80% work of these parks are completed,” said an official of  . 
 
 To increase the green cover in the area, which is depleting at a rapid rate in the city, the green belt along the 47 - km riverbanks will be developed. “Approximately 16,000 trees will be planted on the upper level to provide shade and a relaxing, natural, environment,” added the official.
 
 
