THANE: In a bid to bridge the gap between theoretical and practical knowledge and improve analytical thinking among children, city-based science and education organization,  , will be launching a one-of-its-kind summer school program for children.

 From introducing them to an array of outdoor sports, creative and scientific activities to organizing study tours around the lake city and conducting open discussions with experts from various fields, the four-week long program promises to answer all sorts of queries posed by children. Experts would be roped in and students will have to study on their own, come to class the next day and discuss concepts and difficulties with their mentors.
 
 Founder of the trust,   said, “I believe children are the most curious of all human beings. But sadly, they are unable to express themselves in our syllabus-oriented education system. So, we decided to launch an ‘open school’ program. There are four parts to this process. The morning session will be like a study tour around the city understanding the types of trees, different lakes, heritage sites and more. Then we have the self-study session where experts from all fields will come. Students can read up on stuff they like and pose questions. In the afternoon and evening we will have creative and sports activities lined up for them. It is entirely up to the student to decide which activities to take part in. The child is welcome to attend self-study sessions only on topics that interest him or her.”
 
 With as many as 16 registrations being done till now, even parents seem to be excited about this novel concept.  , a resident of Louiswadi who has enrolled her son for the program, said, “Rather than memorizing chapters, equations and concepts just for the sake of passing an exam, I would prefer if my child would learn things in a deeper sense. This way he can even get a different perspective and his opinions wouldn’t be influenced by anyone. I believe there is no single way of attaining knowledge. I want my son to find his own way and come to conclusions.”
 
 Starting from Monday, the free-of-cost four week long program will be opened at Saraswati school in Naupada for kids in the age group of 8-15.
 
 
