MUMBAI: In what has come as a reprieve for an   arrested over serving of liquor at a party in a city hotel last month, the Bombay high court has, in an interim order, restrained the state excise from filing a charge sheet in the case till March 14.

 A division bench of acting Chief Justice Vijaya Kapse Tahilramani and Justice   were hearing a petition by  , head, marketing excellence, of Abbott Health Care, who has claimed that the excise department’s actions “smack of colourable exercise of power”. In his petition, Saha urged the court to quash criminal proceedings against him. 
 
 He was at the annual staff awards function on January 10 at Renaissance Convention Centre at Powai when he was arrested under the Maharashtra Prohibition Act. 
 
 Saha’s lawyers sought to make changes to the petition and additional public prosecutor Arfan Sait urged for time to seek instructions from the excise department in the matter. “The charge sheet shall not be filed till the next date,” said the bench.
 
 Saha was at the annual employee awards function as part of the national sales meet of 900 employees of the pharmaceutical company held on January 10 at Renaissance Convention Centre at Powai. He was detained and arrested for non-bailable offences under the Maharashtra Prohibition Act and liquor bottles were seized. Two others were also named as accused in the case. Saha was booked for illegal import of liquor bottles under Section 65D and breach of licence conditions. He was produced before the Bandra   the following day and released on bail.
 
 Saha said the company had made all payments to the hotel for the sales meet, including for licence fees for liquor to be served at the functions. It was the hotel’s responsibility to obtain the licences. He added that the prosecution case nowhere supports the charges levelled against him. “Saha’s detention and arrest is an abject non-application of mind,” stated the petition. “The prosecution is illegal, attended by mala fide, smacks of colourable excise of power and is in the teeth of the legislative intent of the Maharashtra Prohibition Act,” the petition stated and added that all the necessary applications had been made, fees paid, and Saha could not have been prosecuted for the alleged crime. It stated that no dishonest intention could be attributed to the company and no role was played by Saha. The petition contended that a licence was also obtained for a January 8 event at the hotel. Saha alleged that he was being pressurized to give a statement against a co-accused who has filed a pre-arrest bail application, and urged the court to quash the FIR.
 
