CHENNAI: Luxury facilities inside jails and poor conviction rates have made arrests a non-deterrent for anti-socials in Chennai. 

 Veteran cops attribute this to the resurgence of gangster culture in Chennai. Prisons have become protection homes for habitual offenders, as they get free access to mobile phones and food. Those having money have made it their 'second home' from where they continue their operation. 
 
 Recently, two men who brought Rs 4 lakh fake currency from West Bengal and five country-made pistols and ammunition, did so at the behest of a man lodged in Puzhal central prison.
 
 According to prison records, more than 320 mobiles, SIM cards and more than 10kg of ganja, in separate incidents, were seized from inmates last year. Some prisoners smuggle ganja into the prison gates with the connivance of the jail officials.
 
 A jail assistant  , 28, a resident of Puzhal prison quarters, was arrested in January last year for smuggling 200 grams of ganja concealed inside his pen to deliver to the inmates. A prison official said, "Some 'loyal' prisoners work for the jail authorities to sell off the contraband to the inmates and they sell 10 grams for Rs 500 to the inmates. The prisoner will take a percentage of the revenue and the remaining will be handed over to the prison official."
 
 In the latest incident on Tuesday night, Chennai city police spoiled the birthday party organised by gangster  , 48, at Mangadu in the city. A senior police officer has also confirmed that Binu has managed to keep at least five to six prison cells reserved for them. If anyone enters the prison mentioning himself as an accomplice of Binu, he will be sent to the reserved prison cells in prison block number 4. Likewise, another gangster C D Mani also has reserved at least five to six prison cells in block number 6 and 7 for his associates. The prison officials refused to comment about it.
 
 At present, Binu is facing 28 cases, including four murder cases, at least three attempt to murder cases, four criminal intimidation cases and assault cases.
 
 Police say gangster Binu Pappachan was harboured by a politician and his son in Choolaimedu. The politician's son Ponnurangam also came at Binu's birthday bash on Tuesday. He was nabbed and questioned by police. He was let off later.
 
 
