NEW DELHI: Under attack by civil society, historians and the political opposition for attempting to “privatise” India’s heritage monuments, the government on Saturday clarified that the ‘Adopt a Heritage’ programme run by the ministry of tourism entailed only “development, operations and maintenace of tourism amenities” in and around heritage monuments and did not, in any way, involve “handing over of monuments” to private partners. 

 The government came under attack by  , TMC and CPM along with historians S Irfan Habib and   over the tourism ministry’s move to “lease out” the 17th century Mughal-era monument to a private entity. Dalrymple expressed concern over the monument’s “auctioning...off to a corporate house”, while Habib, said, “History, particularly medieval, is being dragged into unsavoury controversies. ASI need to keep a close watch, if that works at all.”
 
 The political parties, though, were less forgiving. Congress said, “After handing over the Red Fort to the Dalmia group, which is the next distinguished location that the BJP government will lease out to a private entity?”   chief minister and TMC chief Mamata Banerjee also criticised the move on Twitter. She said, “Why can’t the Government even take care of our historic Lal Qila ? Red Fort is a symbol of our nation. It is where India’s flag is hoisted on Independence Day. Why should it be leased out ? Sad and dark day in our history.(sic)”
 
 The concerns for the iconic monument were also echoed by CPM, which incidentally was part of the UPA when monuments were being handed over to private entities for maintenance and upkeep. It’s general secretary  , said, “The Parliamentary Committee that went into the issue of handing over heritage sites to private corporate had decided against this unanimously. Govt should reverse its decision of privatising the Red Fort.”
 
 The government, however, clarified that the ‘Adopt a Heritage’ scheme was nothing more than an effort — not new — to improve tourist amenities at heritage monuments to increase footfalls. It is a repackaged version of the National Culture Fund — in operation since 1996 — under which private firms offer to preserve and protect tangible and intangible heritage in India and choose to develop amenities, undertake research or find building or maintenance of a heritage project.
 
 Speaking to TOI, tourism minister KJ Alphons said, “The adoption scheme is aimed at involving communites in the upkeep of heritage monuments. The responsibility of maintenaning our heritage should not remain only with some babus sitting in dusty offices. As community assets, we want corporates, schools, public or private individuals to take care of the monuments and to take pride in them. There is no profit-making in this scheme, nor does it allow partners, public or private, to touch the monuments.”
 
 Tourism secretary   also said all MoUs specify the mandate given by   to the “Monument Mitra” who has adopted a site. “The MoU clearly states that in case of any violation of the tenets, the MoU will stand revoked and that the ASI can take relevant action against the concerend party,” Verma said.
 
 The ministry also clarified that ‘The Adopt a Heritage’ programme is a “non-revenue generating project”. As a part of responsible tourism, ‘Monument Mitra’ will spend CSR funds and will be granted “limited visibility” at the monument and on the ministry’s Incredible India website. With specific reference to Dalmia Bharat being awarded adoption rights over Red Fort, the ministry said, “The agency was selected on the basis of unique concept of vision bid and no financial bid is involved. It envisages limited ‘access’ of non-core areas and ‘no handing over of monument’ is involved.”
 
 Last week, Dalmia Group entered into a MoU with the ministry of tourism promising to spend Rs 25 crore on developing amenities around the monument for the next five years. 
 
 So far, the ministry has drafted 31 agencies as Monument Mitras for 95 monuments spread across India. Some of the monuments adopted include Mt. Stok Kangri in Ladakh, the Gaumukh trail in Uttarakhand, Dalmia Bharat Limited for Red Fort, and Gandikota Fort in Andhra Pradesh.
 
 
