Actor Ram Charan’s latest film ‘Rangasthalam’ turned out be this year’s biggest blockbuster so far and the film’s makers organised a lavish, star-studded affair to celebrate the film’s success. Chief guest for the event was none other than Tollywood’s   and fans travelled from across the Telugu states of AP and Telangana to catch a glimpse of their favourite stars. 

 
  
 
 In sync with the film’s rural theme, the stars made a fashion statement, with  , director   and Jagapati Babu attending the event wearing lungis. Actress  , who returned to films post marriage with  , also amped up the style quotient along with  . 
 
 
  
 
 “The reception for this film was overwhelming and the fact that   has visited a theatre after 20 years to watch Rangasthalam is the biggest compliment for us as a team. I’d like to thank Sukumar for giving this film to the industry and making me a part of it,” Ram Charan said. 
 
 
  
 
  Pawan Kalyan, who sent the crowd into a tizzy by making an appearance at the event, heaped praise on director Sukumar and Ram Charan and said that the response from the audience compelled him to watch the film.
 
 
  
 
  “Wherever I went, people were praising the film. When I saw that on IMDB, Rangasthalam is rated higher than international films like Godfather and Shawshank Redemption, I felt proud and thought I must watch this film in the theatres. After watching it on the big screen, I felt like it transported me into that village called Rangasthalam and made me want to be a part of it,” Pawan Kalyan said. 
 
  
  
 
  Stating that it takes guts for Ram Charan to pull off such a character, the actor-politician stated that the film will serve as an inspiration to the people. 
 
 
  
 
  “Charan is somebody who was born and raised in cities. He didn’t know much about village life. For him to pull off this character is incredible. When I would go to their house and visit his father ( ), I would often see him come back home wearing a lungi. To be honest, I don’t have the guts to wear a lungi in a film and credit to him for pulling it off,” Pawan Kalyan added. 
 
  
  Post the Power Star’s speech, the Rangasthalam team also broke into a celebratory jig on the stage and entertained the thousands of fans who had come to cheer for them. 
 
 
  
 Produced by Mythri Movie Makers, 'Rangasthalam' hit screens worldwide on March 30.
 
 
