PATNA: In a shocking incident, a Class IX student,   Kumar (14), was kidnapped and strangled by his neighbour Vicky Paswan (19) for Rs25 lakh ransom on Wednesday. Raunak’s body was found from Vicky’s shop, Shubham Sringar and gift Corner, on   in Kumhrar under the Agamkuan police station area in the city on Friday.

 Raunak was kidnapped from near his residence at Maurya Vihar Colony when he was on way to catch the bus for his school, Keshav Saraswati Vidya Mandir, at Ranipur. Vicky has been arrested. The accused told the police he kidnapped Raunak, the son of property dealer Sudhir Kumar, to repay the loan of Rs3 lakh he had taken from his friends and relatives for business but lost in gambling.
 
 A relative of Raunak said the family had agreed to pay Rs20 lakh and frantically tried to reach every location, from Anisabad, Rajapur Pul and Danapur to  , as indicated by the kidnapper whenever the ransom call was made, but in vain. “We kept carrying Rs20 lakh in a bag to pay the ransom,” he said.
 
 “The first ransom call was received at around 10.30am on Wednesday and Raunak told his father that he was kidnapped and asked him to pay Rs25 lakh to the kidnapper,” he said. Raunak was forced to speak on phone to his father till Wednesday evening. His elder brother   is a second year student. His mother Ranju Devi was not told till Friday evening about Raunak’s murder.
 
 “Vicky’s father Mantu Paswan and their neighbour and former RJD MLA Om Prakash Paswan’s son   have also been detained for interrogation,” Patna SSP   said.
 
 Vicky’s shop is hardly 3km from Raunak’s residence. The SSP said Vicky was arrested on Thursday evening, but he disclosed everything on Friday morning; that he asked Raunak to help him in filling up a form and made him to sit on his bike and took the boy to his shop where he made him captive.
 
 “Raunak was strangled with his muffler on Wednesday evening itself. The bike used in kidnapping and the sim card and cellphone used for making ransom calls were also recovered,” the SSP said.
 
 City SP (East) Vishal Sharma said Raunak’s hands and legs were tied with a rope. “His mouth and nose were also wrapped in duct tape. The body was recovered from inside a wooden box in the shop,” he said.
 
 “Vicky is a drug addict. He had lost around Rs3.8 lakh in gambling and planned the kidnapping,” the SP said and added, “Though Vicky killed Raunak around 7pm on Wednesday, he made the last ransom call even on Thursday morning. Raunak’s movement with Vicky on a bike was captured in a CCTV footage in Kumhrar.”
 
 He said both Raunak and his sister   studied in the same school and used to board the same bus at the main road in Kumhrar. “On Wednesday at around 9am, Raunak left home just a couple of minutes before Sapna. She asked the driver to wait for Raunak and the bus left only after 10 minutes for school,” Raunak’s relative said.
 
 
