CHANDIGARH: Ending months of speculation, the   finally announced on Friday that it will include nine more ministers in Captain Amarinder Singh’s government in Punjab. The names were declared after Amarinder met Congress president Rahul Gandhi in Delhi for the second day on Friday as they tried to strike a balance between various groups in the party exerting pressure to see their man in the council of ministers.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 With this Punjab will now have 18 ministers, reaching the maximum limit that the state can have in a House of 117.
 
 The new cabinet ministers set to be inducted are three-time
 
 MLA from Dera Baba Nanak Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, five-time MLA from Amritsar (West) OP Soni, Raja Sansi MLA Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria, Sangrur MLA Vijay Inder Singla, from Ludhiana (West) MLA Bharat Bhushan Ashu, Hoshiarpur legislator Sunder   , Guru Har Sahai MLA Rana Gurmit Sodhi, Rampura Phul MLA   and Mohali MLA Balbir Sidhu.
 
 Interestingly, all the new faces are first-time ministers. “But they are all experienced grassroots leaders, having won several elections over the years,” said Amarinder, adding they were selected keeping in view their seniority.
 
 In a statement, Amarinder said it had also been decided to elevate ministers of state Razia Sultana and Aruna Chaudhary to cabinet rank and they too would take fresh oath at Saturday’s swearing-in. Portfolios will be announced after the swearingin at the Raj Bhawan in Chandigarh at 6 pm.
 
 The list bears a stamp of Amarinder’s choices with his close confidants – Rana Sodhi, Sukh Sarkaria and Soni sailing through. Singla, on the other hand, has a good equation with the high command.
 
 Among the surprise addi tions, 58-year-old Sunder Shyam Arora managed to make it as the lone face from the Doaba region, an area earlier represented by former minister  .
 
 Indian Youth Congress (IYC) president   Raja Warring (Giddarbaha), prominent Dalit face of the party, Raj Kumar Verka (Amritsar West), and Ludhiana North MLA Rakesh Kumar Pandey failed to make it despite their strong claims for a berth.
 
 “Where it was choice between Soni and Verka for the party, the former’s proximity to Amarinder seems to have has paid off. But it is still surprising that the party has decided to drop its prominent Dalit face ahead of the 2019 Lok Sabha elections and at a time when the issue of SC/ ST Atrocities Act has been gathering steam,” said a party leader.
 
 
