BHOPAL: In a move that is likely to escalate tensions between IAS and IPS in  , state government is considering a proposal to vest select police officers with ‘magisterial’ powers under the CrPC and also amend the public safety bill. 

 Once this happens, the police officers would be able to accept or reject bonds from people under preventive sections.
 
 While senior IAS officers are opposing this move, the proposal to empower police officials will be the key agenda of home minister Bhupendra Singh’s meeting scheduled for Monday.
 
 Discussion on a final draft of proposed 'MP Public Safety Regulation Bill' will be another important agenda of the meet. 
 
 As per Sec 21 of CrPC, “The state government may appoint, for such term as it may think fit, executive magistrates, to be known as special executive magistrates, for particular areas or for the performance of particular functions and confer on such special executive magistrates such of the powers as are conferable under this code on executive magistrates, as it may deem fit." 
 
 Maharashtra has already notified the act and appointed police inspector state crime, CID branch, state protection of civil rights and district local crime branch to be special executive magistrates and conferred on them the power to accept or reject bonds under sections 107, 108, 109 and 110 of CrPC. Once MP government issues a notification, designated police officers too would become ‘special magistrates’.
 
 On other hand, this is the first time that ‘Madhya Pradesh Public Safety Regulation Bill’ – drafted on lines of   (Measures) Enforcement Act, 2013 – is being discussed at government level.
 
 The proposed bill makes it mandatory for all private "establishments", where a gathering of 100 or more people is expected at a time, to install CCTV surveillance cameras and provide access controls on the activity log. The bill will cover all 14 municipal corporations across the state. 
 
 “As of today, we cannot mandate private institutions to handover their CCTV footages. Once the proposed law is enacted institution managers will have to provide for access controls and closed-circuit television surveillance cameras at all entry-exit points and parking areas.
 
 The managements of commercial and industrial establishments will be required to put up electronic surveillance on their respective premises with a provision to store the video footage for one month.
 
 Managements of these establishments will be required to file “periodical returns” to the appointed authority once in six months certifying that the prescribed public safety measures are in place and the electronic surveillance equipment is in a working condition.
 
 Failure to comply with provisions of the legislation will lead to imposition of a fine. The premises would be sealed in case management does not implement the public safety measures even after the fines.
 
 BOX...BOxx...
 
 Police can’t act as executive magistrates:   had in 2017 clarified that police officers cannot act as executive magistrates under the Code of Criminal Procedure to maintain peace or, accept or reject bail bonds. Chief Justice Dipak Misra had expressed surprise over police officers working in the capacity of executive magistrates while hearing a petition filed by one Aldanish Rein. Rein cited an example from Delhi where an executive magistrate had refused to accept the bond given by a person in a case relating to public nuisance and was sent to judicial custody.
 
 He had challenged the powers exercised by executive magistrates under Chapter VII of the CrPC, especially the power under Sections 107, 111 and 116 whereby they arbitrarily reject bonds given by persons, involved in cases relating to public scuffle or nuisance, promising to keep peace.
 
 MP Public Safety Regulation Bill
 
 1-Inspectors to inspect premises: The inspector of police having jurisdiction over the area, may at any time, without prior notice, enter into any establishment, inspect and check the installation and functioning of the public safety measures and in case of any default or violation shall send a report to the assistant commissioner of police or as the case may be the sub-divisional police officer.
 
 Liability: Every owner/manager/person or the persons who are running an establishment shall, provide and maintain public safety measures so as to ensure safety and security of the public visiting their establishment.
 
 Liability: Every owner/manager/person or the persons who are running an establishment shall save/store video footage properly for a period of 30 days and provide the same as and when required by a police inspector or any other authority as may be notified by the government. Penalty for the first month of default - Rs. 5,000 and Rs 10,000 for the second month of default.
 
 Protection of action taken in good faith: No suit, prosecution or legal proceedings shall lie against any authority or officer for anything done in good faith or intended to be done in pursuance of this Act or any rule or order made thereunder.
 
 
