You hear it whenever someone gets sick or dies soon after losing a spouse: Was it because of a broken heart? Stress might not be to blame for former President George HW Bush’s hospitalisation a day after his wife’s funeral, but it does the body no favours, and one partner’s health clearly affects the other’s.

 A sudden shock can trigger a heart attack or something like it called broken heart syndrome . Some studies also have found that people are more likely to die soon after losing a longtime spouse. But often the timing is mere coincidence, and “broken heart” speculation just fuels a neat narrative when the problem is unsurprising in an older person with underlying health issues.
 
 In any case, the death of a loved one is a dangerous time for the surviving spouse, said Dr  , a cardiologist at NYU Langone Medical Center and an American   spokeswoman.
 
 “It’s really important to have a lot of other support around you,” she said. “When people are depressed after something like this happens, they may not be eating, ignore symptoms and want to be stoic. They’re certainly stressing and may not be getting enough rest. All of these things can set the stage for lifethreatening conditions.”
 
 Bush, who will turn 94 in June, has been hospitalised since Sunday with an infection that’s spread to his blood.
 
 Stress weakens the immune system and can make infections harder to fend off, said several doctors not involved in his care. But   needs a wheelchair because of a form of Parkinson’s disease and has been hospitalised before for pneumonia and other infections.
 
 It’s possible he ignored early signs of infection during the flurry of preparations for Barbara’s funeral, said James Giordano, a Georgetown University neurologist and expert on stress’s effects on the body. Country music star   died four months after his wife, June Carter Cash, did in 2003. “Broken heart” was widely speculated when Debbie Reynolds died a day after her actressdaughter, Carrie Fisher, did in 2016. 
 
