KOLKATA: The very milkman whose clues led police to the four masked men who robbed a   at gunpoint was arrested on Saturday after police learned that it was he who had tipped the robbers on the job.

 It was a small yet significant point — that had been bothering the cops after they had appeared to tie up the case with the arrests of Md Shamim, alias Bablu, 44, Amarjeet Kunwar, 24, Md Mustakin alias Raj, 20, and Md Nadeem, 24, on Friday— that led to the arrest of milkman Md Mustaq alias Mustafa, 24, on Saturday.
 
 It was Mustaq’s clues and CCTV footage that led police to identify a multi-utility vehicle that ultimately led them to the quartet. Mustaq told cops he was out delivering milk when he saw the four masked men get into the car. But sleuths wondered what Mustaq was doing at 3.20am when the robbery happened. Milkmen do wake up early to distrubute milk, but not this early.
 
 During interrogation, the four accused spilled the beans. It was Mustaq who had informed them about the movements of the Agarwal family. Police said the gang had hired men from Muzzafarpur in Bihar and Ghatsila in Jharkhand to carry out the operation. This included the milkman and car drivers who acted as their eyes and ears.
 
 Shamim — now a resident of Tikiapara area who was first arrested in 2004 in a robberymurder case in Kolkata — had escaped from an Odisha jail.
 
 Originally from Jamshedpur, he used his contacts in Bihar and Jharkhand to commit highway crimes in Howrah and had become a druglord with several cases registered
 
 against him. This time, he sought the help of a Bihar-based criminal named Amarjeet.
 
 Police sources said that since there were no   available from the incident spot, they questioned locals. One of them recalled seeing a white Innova parked on Ananda Banerjee Lane in the morning. Cops then checked CCTV cameras put up in the area and found a positive match. The car number was fixed and it was finally traced to Mangoe Lane around midnight on Thursday. The arrests followed soon after.
 
 The accused was produced in court and remanded in police custody. Two country-made single-shot guns, two live cartridges and the car used in the robbery have been seized from the accused. Cops said the entire loot has also been recovered.
 
 Police said the accused had left early only because Lalita Agarwal called up the police in proper time. “They had come armed and had plans to tie up all the residents before fleeing. We are ascertaining if others are involved,” said an officer.
 
 
