PANAJI: When Nishant Fernandes arrived at Goa International   to drop off his brother, instead of bidding a proper farewell, Fernandes hustled his brother out of the car and raced towards the exit, his mind more on the ticking clock. It was in vain. A haphazardly parked tourist   blocked his path and Fernandes had to fork out Rs 85 for exceeding the time allowed for passengers to alight from the car.

 Not content with a virtual monopoly over the tourist taxi business in the state, taxi operators have also engineered a situation where they have cornered nearly all the space in the arrival and departure lanes at Goa International Airport.
 
 So while the common man gets five measly minutes to bid his loved ones goodbye, taxi operators can park their cars for hours on end as they haggle with arriving tourists and passengers. And, yellow and black   and the tourist taxis do not pay a single rupee for occupying the precious parking space.
 
 “At any point if you visit the airport, taxis are just parked there jamming all the access points,” an official who did not wish to be named said. “They do not pay a single rupee to the contractor and they are not answerable to anybody and if this is not a mafia, then what is?”
 
 Goa Traffic Police and the department of transport turn a blind eye to the rampant menace while Airports Authority of India (AAI) claims that the matter is out of its jurisdiction.
 
 The problem has its roots in 2001 when AAI urged the government to allocate land for a taxi stand around the airport. As the new integrated terminal was being built, the existing black and yellow taxi stand was demolished with the expectation that a new taxi stand would come up. Though the state government did notify land for parking, the land was de-notifed in 2012.
 
 “Stealthily, the local taxis crept into the terminal lanes since there was no parking space. The RTO also continued to issue taxi permits despite knowing that there is no parking space at the airport,” a former transport department officer said.
 
 As on date, there are around 200 black and yellow cabs operating at the airport, leave alone the hundred odd tourist taxi cars illegally parked in the vicinity.
 
 Goa Police and the Traffic cell are responsible for enforcing the law but their response is dismal, say onlookers.
 
 Several locals who have had bad experiences, argue that Goa Traffic Police personnel deliberately delay private cars so that people have to pay the charges.
 
 All this may change in the coming months, with AAI working on a new car parking policy. Director of Goa Airport, BCH Negi confirmed the development. “It is under consideration. The process is on but it will take time,” he said.
 
 Another AAI source elaborated and said, “AAI is reviewing the existing policy of free time for pick up and drop. A new car parking policy is under deliberation to streamline the vehicle parking at airport and to address the issues raised by people.”
 
 Stakeholders point out that legally, white tourist taxi operators are only allowed to operate from their residence and cannot park at airports, bus stops and railway stations. But when enforcement agencies attempt to penalize such violations, political influence is used, said a tourism stakeholder.
 
 
