KOLKATA: A mechanic posing as a doctor in an ambulance has thrown the spotlight on complete absence of medical aid in vehicles ferrying patients.

 Even though most city private hospitals have their own ambulances, they are inadequate in number and few have doctors on board to attend to critical patients in transit. While hospital authorities admit that despite having ambulances with state-of-the-art life-support devices, their purpose is often defeated due to the absence of trained medics, they point out that the costs and logistics make it difficult to have a travelling doctor in each vehicle. A substantial number of patients suffer an irreversible deterioration and die while being transported in vans without life-support facilities that are used most frequently to ferry patients to hospitals, they argued.
 
 
 According to an estimate, less than 5% of patients in Kolkata travel to hospitals in ambulances fitted with life-support devices. “Even though every hospital, including ours, has ambulances which are well-equipped, they are expensive and under-utilized. We have eight ambulances in our three centres, six of which are Advanced Cardiac Life Support (ACLS) and the rest are basic life support (BLS) ones. But they are rarely used since patients seem to prefer the neighbourhood vans, even though the difference in charge is not a big one. While we don’t have a doctor on board, every ambulance has an emergency medical technician who is a paramedic,” said  , CEO of AMRI Hospitals.
 
 An ACLS ambulance is supposed to be equipped with a ventilator, a pulse oximeter, monitors, trained paramedics and a doctor. BLS ambulances have to be armed with oxygen, emergency medicines and at least one paramedic. City hospitals
 
 prefer to outsource most of their ambulances. Some even outsource doctors along with the vehicle. Ruby Hospital has a combination of both, but says that the demand remains low. “All our ACLS ambulances have adoctor on board who is trained in emergency care. But our ambulances are rarely summoned probably because they are expensive. Also, patients’ families feel comfortable arranging a neighbourhood van than wait for the hospital to send a vehicle,” said   of Ruby.
 
 It also becomes difficult to assess the actual condition of a patient who needs hospitalization, Dutta pointed out. “While patient families are in a hurry, we can’t recommend an ambulance without making sure it is really needed. We have trained people, though, who try to ascertain the need for an equipped ambulance by speaking to the family members. But it’s difficult,” he said.
 
 A hospital official said they had contemplated doing away with ACLS ambulances since they had no takers. The decision was put on hold. “Patients fail to realize that they could be very important, especially if a critically ill individual is being shifted from one hospital to another. Every year, dengue patients suffer during transfer just because they have to be taken off life-support in transit,” he pointed out.
 
 Belle Vue Clinic, for instance, has just two ambulances — one ACLS and a BLS — which are enough to meet the demand. “We provide a doctor if required but the number is enough,” said P Tondon, CEO. Medica Superspecialty Hospital has four — two ACLS and two BLS — of which three are stationed at the hospital and one at the airport. That apart, the hospital has pressed three small vans into service to ferry patients quickly. According to an official, the combination has helped ensure better utilization of the fleet.
 
  has six state-of-the-art ALS ambulances equipped with monitor, incubator, ventilator, nebulizer and pulse generator. “We have trained paramedics along with a doctor for comprehensive support in critical conditions,” said an official.
 
