KOLKATA: The   department of   (formerly  ), one of the oldest seats of English literature in Asia set up in 1828, is in news for wrong reasons. The admission test question paper handed out to candidates in centres throughout the city on May 12 was riddled with errors. The department has blamed West Bengal Joint Entrance Board for the errors.

 Although the Board conducts the examinations, in case of the English department, the questions are prepared by the faculty and handed over to the Board, which then gets it ready for distribution in the exam hall. The questions are all multiple choice type and students are given an OMR (optical mark recognition) sheet to mark the answers.
 
 However, the department faculty claimed that the final paper handed out to the students did not match the one they had prepared for the test.It is likely to demand a probe.
 
 Board chairman Malayendu Saha said, “I cannot comment on the matter right now. I shall have to check.”
 
 “We were aghast when we saw the question paper. It is riddled with errors. We were surprised because our questions cannot have so many errors. When we crosschecked, we opened a can of worms! Can you imagine the message this sends out to the people?” asked an irate professor.
 
 “We couldn’t believe our eyes when we got the paper. It seemed that we had not come to Presidency to write the paper, but to some less reputed institution. Such errors are unpardonable! We have decided to put the question paper up on social media,” said a girl who appeared for the test.
 
 “This shows the amount of disrespect the organisers have for the candidates.” said another girl. The two girls wrote their papers at Calcutta Institute of Engineering and Management and Moulana Azad College Centre.
 
 Head of the department Sumit Chakraborty said he was extremely upset. “Yes these errors are shameful but we don’t recognise this question paper. It is definitely not what we had given to the Board. It will not be prudent on my part to speak further. Please ask the Board,” Chakraborty said. “In fact, the entire test has upset us. We wanted a subjective test for English to check candidates’ proficiency…but no one agreed!” he added.
 
