KOLKATA: A building materials supplier, who's also a syndicate member in  , was arrested on Saturday night on charges of assaulting a promoter with a knife after the latter allegedly refused to take materials from him. 

 Promoter   (35) suffered injuries on his neck after he was allegedly attacked by accused Vivek Singh (25) outside his house in Kidderpore on Saturday night. He underwent treatment and had to be administered stitches at   following which he lodged a complaint with   police. The accused was later arrested.
 
 Puri along with his five friends were promoting a G plus 4 building after demolishing an old house at 6, Kabitirtha Sarani on a four-cottah plot. The work started around two months ago. According to the complaint, Singh had approached him on a number of occasions with an offer to supply building materials at the site. Singh then allegedly started threatening Puri with dire consequences if he hired any other contractor.
 
 But Puri went ahead with the project without taking materials from Singh's agency. "On Saturday, Singh allegedly went to Puri's house and asked him to come out. As he came out, Singh attacked him from behind and slashed his throat. Puri raised an alarm, when neighbours came in and rescued him. But, Singh managed to flee" an officer of Watgunge PS said.
 
 Police picked up Singh from a hideout late on Saturday. The knife was also recovered from his possession and was subsequently seized. Singh was booked under non bailable section of IPC 307 (attempt to murder) and on production before a city court, he was sent to police custody.
 
 A senior officer of port division said they were investigating if the attack was intended over the issue of extortion or some personal enmity. "We have learnt that Singh was demanding money from Puri for quite sometime. We are probing whether it was over extortion or some personal issue. We have arrested Singh and have got him under custody," said a senior officer of port division.
 
 When a TOI team visited the site they found that work was suspended. An inquiry in the neighbourhood revealed Puri and Singh knew each other for quite sometime and locals identified Singh to be a small-time bricks supplier. "Singh used to supply bricks for small works. As for Puri, this is the first building he was promoting with some others from the same area. Both Puri and Singh know each other," said a resident of Kabitirtha Sarani in Kidderpore.
 
 When TOI contacted Puri, his mobile was found switched off. 
 
 
 
