CHENNAI: Even as the families of fishermen from Kanyakumari, who went missing post-  , continue to live in anxiety, the centre and the state governments seem to be at loggerheads on carrying out further searches in the high seas. While the Centre has said that the search operation has ended, chief minister   assured the assembly on Tuesday that searches will continue till the last fisherman is found, but only the Centre could order the operation.

 During the zero hour, leader of opposition M K Stalin and Colachel Congress MLA J G Prince wanted to know the exact number of deaths and missing fishermen.
 
 “In the governor’s address, it was mentioned that the efforts will be taken to find the last missing fisherman. But a few days back, defence minister had said that the search operations have ended. I wish to know whether the state government has started its own search operations,” Stalin asked. “The government will search for the last missing fisherman. We would request the Centre to continue search of those fishermen still missing,” assured the chief minister.
 
 “Similarly the government has said in the memorandum to PM that Rs 13,520 crore has been sought as long term relief for areas hit by Cyclone Ockhi and Rs 747 crore as immediate relief. But the governor’s address says Rs 4,854 crore has been sought as long term relief and Rs 401 crore as immediate relief. Why is this difference,” he asked.
 
 While listing out the problems faced by fishermen who were stranded mid-sea and those who managed to survive by swimming long distance, Prince said, the disaster could have been prevented if the government had warned the fishermen about the cyclone. At least now give the fishermen latest communication equipment,” said Prince.
 
 Heated exchanges were witnessed between the ruling AIADMK and the main opposition, DMK over the cyclone relief provided in Kanyakumari. Former minister and DMK MLA N Suresh Rajan alleged the district administration failed to put out alerts to the fishermen and thus resulted in loss of fishermen in the disaster.
 
 Palaniswami requested the members not to belittle the relief and rehabilitation measures of his government, since the administration swung into action immediately with deployment of ministers and manpower ahead of the cyclone. Fisheries minister   said the alerts were made appropriately to the district, but much of the fishermen who undertook deep sea fishing could not be alerted on time.
 
