THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: A seven-member special investigation team led by a   has been constituted to probe into the murder of former radio jockey Rajesh at Madavoor. 

 PWD minister G Sudhakaran, who spoke on behalf of chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan in the assembly on Wednesday, said all efforts were on to nab the assailants at the earliest.
 
  However, he refuted the opposition's claim that the government has failed to act tough against notorious goonda quotation gangs in the state. 
 
 "The murder of Rajesh was unexpected and horrific. It's also an isolated incident. But the opposition should not try to create a fear psychosis by demanding detailed discussion on such an isolated incident," he said.
 
 MLA K Muraleedharan, who gave notice for adjournment motion on government's alleged failure to rein in the activities of goonda quotation gangs, said police were not only a failure to eliminate such notorious gangs, but they themselves indulge in criminal activities against citizens. He said the   government had put an end to the 'operation kubera' campaign against loan sharks. "Who are these criminal gangs? The government has been trying to dismiss the quotation killings as isolated incidents, but murders continue. Police have failed to silence these gangs. In some cases, police have turned out to be the culprits. Police act as both executioner and saviour. Owing to insensitive handling of a petty incident by Pangode police, the engagement of the daughter of a gulf expatriate had to be called off,'' he said. 
 
 However, the works minister said the overall quality of policing has improved manifold after the LDF government came to power. Till December 31, 2017, as many as 427 Kaapa cases were registered against 167 persons. Of this, 81 were jailed. Till March 28, 2018, after the LDF came to power, police conducted 14,812 raids against usurers and 3,378 cases were registered. As many as 2,198 people were arrested in this connection, he said.
 
 Opposition leader Ramesh Chennithala said most of the laurels that Kerala police received during the LDF term were the result of the initiatives started by the   government. "Neither the CM, nor the DGP has control over police personnel. How the police handle the criminal gangs is important. CM had earlier claimed that government would publish a list of history-sheeters. But that did not happen till date. Chief minister, like Narendra Modi, has a penchant for skipping the proceedings of the house," he said. Protesting over speaker's denial of permission to the no confidence motion, opposition staged a walk out from the House.
 
 
