RAIPUR: Even as northern Chhattisgarh witnesses   throughout the year, forest department continues experimenting on resolving the problems by conducting several researches and analysis. 

 As part of several directives given to villagers who frequently come under attack of pachyderms,   chief conservator of forest   said, “We have warned villagers against chasing off the elephants by removing the silencer of tractors used for irrigation purpose. The sound of it is so loud that tuskers don’t prefer to frequent in that region till the sound is on. But it definitely leads to aggression among pachyderms that makes them attacking towards human.”
 
 He added, while awareness was being spread in the region against usage of such techniques, officers said that licence of tractors would be cancelled if used for chasing elephants. 
 
 Bisen said that tuskers, naturally being a peace-loving animal, its sudden change in nature that shows extreme aggression was a question lingering since long. In recent findings, it was revealed that villagers apply several objectionable techniques to keep elephants at bay by pelting stones at them, throwing fireballs or bursting fire crackers that lead to elephants becoming aggressive and violent. 
 
 Once the violators are identified, their tractor numbers would be noted and sent to   for its licence cancellation. 
 
 Officials are trying to make them understand that in a bid to chase away the elephants, they were putting others life at risk as the animal attacks anyone and everyone who comes in its contact as soon as the loud sound reaches its ears. 
 
 Though forest department had been using few of these techniques subtly earlier, presently efforts are being made mainly to provide enough space for the animals to move from one place to another and facilitate them sufficient water and food inside forest. 
 
 With presence of nearly 100 elephants, Surajpur, Pratappur, Raigarh and   districts are presently worst affected with elephant attack with nearly half a dozen death of human in past fortnight. 
 
 As per the records, one herd of 21 tuskers has killed about 52 persons in state in past one year and forst department is planning to install a radio collar on three of the animals in herd to record their movement and prevent further attacks. The herd mostly registers its presence in Surguja forest range. 
 
 According to a report, elephant is an endangered animal and population of Asian elephants was recorded only upto 47000. 
 
 
 
