TRICHY: The MCI decision may inflict a mighty blow to the development of   of Open Schooling (NIOS) as well as state-run open schools that have been witnessing a surge in admissions in recent times.   is an alternate board like   under the ministry of human resource development (MHRD), the difference being that while CBSE is for the regular school system, NIOS is for students in the open and distance mode. 

 The curriculum is designed in a self-learning mode which completely removed stress from the student’s mind. It is specially designed for students with learning issues as well as those interested in sports and music. “However NIOS is not a dumpyard for slow learners. It is meant for highly focused students who get a flexibility of subjects according to their interests,” says regional director of NIOS Chennai, P Ravi. 
 
 He says that topper of JEE (Advanced) in the state who was ranked 26 at the national level was from NIOS last year. Even students from CBSE could not match his performance. Further, the CBSE had decided to discontinue the formative and summative assessment pattern followed till last academic year. It was reverting to the board examination pattern with cumulative portions for the entire year. Academicians say that there were all possibilities of students finding it difficult to cope with the pressure of appearing for board exam while having the burden of the entire year’s curriculum. 
 
 Many students who aspired to join IITs and other elite institutions opted for NIOS in which they need not attend daily classes and prepare for entrance tests. They join NIOS in Class 11 and concentrate the whole year on the preparation for the entrance examination. “Now that the MCI has barred NIOS students from NEET, there is apprehension among engineering aspirants who have opted for NIOS for a similar decision from the technical education department,” says  , principal of  . This would perhaps affect the number of admissions to open schooling including NIOS, she added. 
 
 
