The scam relates to tenders awarded during the Cong-NCP regime. Many are of the time when NCP’s Ajit Pawar was the water resources minister. The ACB probe, of which TOI is keeping a track, began in March 2015. ACB Nagpur unit is probing 40 contracts, whose average value is `50 crore, granted under   dam project. So far, 8 FIRs have been filed and probe on for 32 tenders. Here is an update...

 The First   
 
 FA Construction, Mumbai, headed by Nissar Khatri. The contractor is known to have strong political links, especially with the NCP
 
 Case | Company paid Rs143 crore for work on Ghodazari branch canal of Gosikhurd, which is more than half of its bill
 
 Status | FIR registered in February 2016. Charges include producing forged documents. Firm allegedly resorted to cartelisation and submitting bids of fake companies. Charge sheet submitted in the court on September 2017. Case being heard in ACB special court 
 
 Second FIR 
 
 Joint venture (JV) formed by two Mumbai firms RJ Shah Co and D Thakker Construction. The first is headed by senior citizen sisters — Kalindi and Tejaswini Shah — the second has brothers Jigar and Vishal Thakker as well as their father Pravin Thakker at the helm
 
 Case | A tender worth Rs56 crore awarded for the work on tail branch canal of the Mokahbardi lift   scheme (LIS), which is one of the components of the Gosikhurd dam. Company charged with producing fake documents and cartelisation. One of the three bidders was M/s SN Thakker, another firm run by the Thakker family itself 
 
 Status | Charge sheet filed last week
 
 * Dissent between contractors over getting the project led to baring of the irrigation scam
 
 Third FIR
 
 Former executive director (ED) of the Vidarbha Irrigation Development Corporation (VIDC), Devendra Shirke. The ED is the topmost officer of VIDC. Sanjay Kolhapurkar, an ex-VIDC official who had worked as officer on special duty (OSD) with Union minister Nitin Gadkari as well, also booked
 
 Case | Shirke and two VIDC officers charged with favouring Hindustan Constructions for bagging a contract for Ghodazari. Charges include cartelisation and rigging of tender process in connivance with officials. The officers have been charged with wrongly increasing the cost by Rs7.81 crore
 
 Status | FIR registered in May 2017, investigation pending and charge sheet yet to be filed
 
 Fourth FIR
 
 Another former ED of VIDC Rohidas Landge booked along with four senior officers for favouring joint venture of Srinivasa Constructions and Balirami Reddy & Co. The first company belongs to TDP MLA from Telangana, Rama Rao
 
 Case | The VIDC officials allegedly flouted rules to increase the tender cost by Rs15.49 crore. Bidding process rigged 
 
 Status | Investigation pending, charge sheet yet to be filed
 
 Fifth to Eighth FIR
 
 All the four FIRs registered in one go on December 13 last year, when the winter session of state legislature was under way
 
 Among the booked are Firdaus Khan, an official of M/s Bhangadia in which Mitesh Bhangadia was at helm before he became a BJP MLC. The Srinivas Construction-Balirami Reddy JV was booked in two cases. Another FIR was filed against 5 VIDC officials including former ED Shirke and ex-OSD with Nitin Gadkari, Sanjay Kolhapurkar. This is the second FIR against Kolhapurkar making eight FIRs in all 
 
 Case 
 
 First relates to work on the Mokhabardi LIS, for which M/s Bhangadia and Co got the contract. Shirke allegedly favoured the firm by escalating the cost against norms. In the two cases against Srinivas Construction-Balirami Reddy JV, the firms allegedly bid without registering the partnership, apart from cartelisation. The JV had got works under the left bank canal of the Gosikhurd dam.
 
 The fourth FIR covers only VIDC officials which include Shirke and Kolhapurkar for the works in the right bank canal
 
 Status: The investigation has just begun in the cases
 
 Background
 
 During the winter session, Congress and NCP had planned a rally against BJP government on farmers’ issue. In retaliation, CM Devendra Fadnavis said the government will soon come up with more proof in the irrigation scam. It was expected that FIRs will be registered against big names in the opposition. FIRs registered on the day of the rally covered only contractors and VIDC officers. Bhangadia himself was not booked on the grounds that it was Khan who ran the day-to-day affairs using a power of attorney
 
 FIR in Amravati division
 
 One was registered for works under the Jigaon Dam of Buldhana. The area is covered by Amravati unit of ACB
 
 
