NEW DELHI:  , the world’s largest steel producer, has put in a “strong bid” for Essar Steel and sees an opportunity in the company to enter the lucrative Indian market where its previous attempts to set up greenfield projects have remained unsuccessful, its chairman and CEO Lakshmi   has said.

 
 “We would love to participate in the growth process of India. We are already present with the HMEL oil refinery but we would also like to partner in the growth of the steel industry and believe we have a lot to bring. We see opportunity in Essar, that is why we put in our bid,” Mittal said in an interaction with TOI.
 
 ArcelorMittal had signed pacts with several state governments in the past for setting up greenfield projects but those efforts did not yield any results.
 
 ArcelorMittal, through its Indian arm, has placed its bid for Essar Steel, which has been put on the block through the insolvency process and is pitted against Numetal, which has been set up in Mauritius by   in a majority partnership with Russia’s leading bank VTB. Rewant Ruia, the younger son of  , is spearheading the family’s interest in Numetal. Both the bids have faced scrutiny for links to defaulting firms.
 
 Sitting in his expansive home in the leafy Lutyens’ zone in the heart of the capital, Mittal said he hopes that the decision on the bid is based on merit. “Those who decide I hope will keep in mind the spirit of the law,” Mittal said, adding that it should be based on merit as the whole purpose of the law was to bring down NPAs of banks in a transparent manner.
 
 “Steel is not a grocery product. It is the backbone of the economy and has an important role to play in the development of the country. A steel company needs to be operated by people with strong, relevant experience,” he said.
 
 Elaborating about the company’s investment in Uttam Galva, Mittal said his company was a passive investor and was not even present on the board or involved in the management. Furthermore, the investment was written off in 2015, much before the Insolvency Act came into force.
 
 Regulations bar defaulting promoters from submitting a resolution plan for getting the company back on track either directly or through front companies. However, promoters can still have a go at retaining their assets by repaying all dues.
 
 Asked about the company’s high debt levels, Mittal said, “Our debt is not high, on the contrary our balance sheet is the strongest in the industry. A net debt/ebitda ratio of 1.2X is an extremely healthy ratio.”
 
 “More than enough capex will be available when there is an opportunity,” he said, when asked about the funding of the deal if they win the bid.
 
 Earlier this month, Arcelor-Mittal signed a joint venture agreement with Nippon Steel & Sumitomo Metal Corporation (NSSMC) linked to its offer to acquire Essar Steel. The company’s subsidiary   submitted a resolution plan for Essar Steel on February 12, which outlined the intention to have NSSMC formally join its bid for Essar Steel.
 
 During the nearly hourlong interaction, Mittal also dwelt on other topics such as the impact of US tariffs on steel imports and the future of the steel sector. “I don’t see much impact on Indian companies. In any case, they can seek product-specific exemptions.”
 
