NEW DELHI: Three and a half decades ago, Jeetu Singh migrated to the national capital from Azamgarh in Uttar Pradesh to provide a good life for his family. Little did he know that he would end up doing backbreaking work, quite literally, without any identity in a thankless sector where dreams die a thousand deaths every day.

 Since 1983, Singh has spent the better part of his life carrying 80-120kg gunny bags at Asia’s largest fruit and vegetable market,  . Now, he is barely able to walk straight. Pointing at the metal rod in his broken leg, he said, “My aadhti (wholesale trader) refused to accept me as one of his workers when I got injured after a dozen sacks fell over me while unloading.”
 
 
  
 
 The elderly palledar and over 50,000 workers like him are still not officially recognised as “porters” or “head-load workers” by Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee (APMC).
 
 Surprisingly, an RTI query has revealed that only two   have been issued “G-category licence” or badges in the market where 11,000-14,000 metric tonnes of fruits and vegetables arrive daily.
 
 Hundreds of palledars organised a Satyagrah on Monday demanding their right to identity. Prakash Kumar, general secretary of Rashtriya Hamal Panchayat, said, “Delhi Agricultural Produce Marketing (Regulation) Act, 1998 clearly stipulates that it is duty of APMC to issue licences to traders, agents and other workers under A-G categories. While over 2,500 other licences are issued every year, porters have been singled out since the beginning. Nothing has happened even after several orders and assurances by CMs and the administration. Giving just two licences amounts to denying porters their rights.”
 
 “We unload and load products from 50,000 vehicles that enter the market. One man carries up to 300 gunny bags weighing from 60-120kg daily. Carrying 18 tonnes a day is bound to take a toll on one’s health,” said Lal Bhadur Sahani (40), a palledar.
 
 Accidents are also commonplace in the congested area where cows, porters and trucks jostle for space. “A few months ago, the market management refused to help a worker’s family after he got crushed by a truck. We collected donations for his cremation,” Sahani added.
 
 The lack of an identity also denies the porters access to safeguards under many labour laws, compensation, healthcare and respite from harassment. “As we are unable to give proof that we work at the market, the cops beat us and demand money,” said Rajkumar Thakur, while unloading potatoes.
 
 With 48.5lakh tonnes of produce being processed over the 79-acre area every year, accidents due to trucks and collapsing stacks of gunny bags happen every other week. “The only dispensary and mohalla clinic is closed half of the week. It doesn’t even have basic facilities for treatment in case of accidents,” complained Raju Gaud.
 
 Many complained about being paid partially by adhatis in cash. Once they are regulated through licences, their salary would have to be deposited in bank accounts and they would no longer be harassed by cops.
 
 The secretary of APMC, Rajesh Goyal, said that he had recently taken up office so wasn’t aware about why no licences were issued in the past decades. “I met the delegation of porters and assured them that the process to issue licences will start in 15 days,” he added.
 
 
