Visakhapatnam: Happy Streets on the last morning of the year seems to have set in the jubilant mood among denizens to ring in the New Year in a fun and healthy way. On the last day of 2017, a good crowd gathered at the Happy Streets to take part in all the fun and fitness activities.  Denizens witnessed the final sunrise of 2017 as they headed towards the stage near YMCA, where yoga instructor Dhananjaya was teaching the benefits of various ‘asanas’. Soon, the calm atmosphere gave way to ebullient dance moves.  But that was not all. More dance followed as Deepika and her team enlivened the audience with Zumba. The dance and fitness programme — created by Colombian dancer and cyclist Alberto Perez in the 1990s — performed to peppy English and Spanish numbers, turned out to be the biggest hit among the crowd. S Kalpana, a homemaker and resident of Pandurangapuram, said: “The last day of the old year and first day of the New Year is lined up with parties and get-togethers, which means hogging on a lot of spicy and high calorie food. So it is better to do some fitness activities in the morning and Happy Streets is the best place for it on a Sunday morning.” Apart from the yoga, dance and Zumba, the usual sports and games also drew a lot of crowd, especially children. Snakes and ladders, archery, shuttle, football, cricket, tug of war kept the youngsters busy till 7.30 am on the fourth Sunday of Happy Streets in the port city. K Rohit, an engineering student, pointed out that Happy Streets timing should be extended. “Instead of wrapping it by 7.30 am, it would be nice if the events continue till 8/8.30 am as there are so many games and fitness activities to indulge in,” he said. “We look forward to the Sundays as it offers so much fun and activities. The mornings are a time to bond with your family and neighbours. Moreover, the zumba sessions help us get motivated to keep fit,” Swatilekha M, a school teacher, said. Happy Streets is being conducted by the Times of India group in association with Andhra Pradesh Tourism and is being supported by the police department, district administration and Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC).