KOCHI: District medical officer Dr N K   on Saturday said that   have been reported in   so far. 

 
 Officials with the district health department said that the death of a two-year-old boy in Mattancherry was not due to Nipah virus. 
 
 The samples collected from the infant were sent to Manipal Virology Institute on Friday for further test and it was found to be negative, said an official with health department.
 
 "We have given special instructions to doctors and paramedical staff to remain alert and take intense preventive measures not to contract the virus. Separate isolation wards have been set up at   and in Aluva district hospital," said Dr Kuttappan. 
 
 Meanwhile, the district development committee meeting convened by district collector K Mohammed Y Safirulla on Saturday has directed the district health department to intensify preventive measures and to conduct awareness classes to prevent the outbreak of infectious diseases in the district.
 
 The MLAs and representatives at the meeting said that in the backdrop of Nipah outbreak in Kozhikode as well as with the onset of monsoon, special emphasis should be undertaken to prevent outbreak of infectious diseases.
 
 Dr Kuttappan also said that compared to previous years the rate of dengue, rat fever and Hepatitis B has come down. 
 
 The district medical officer said that in Ward 24 and 27 in Vallam in Perumbavoor where four dengue cases were reported, the health and sanitation workers have carried out nine rounds of fogging to eliminate breeding grounds of mosquitoes.
 
 Perumbavoor MLA Eldhose Kunnappilly said that to prevent the outbreak of infectious diseases, regular inspections should be carried out in places where migrant communities are settled in large numbers. 
 
 The MLA also said that there are not sufficient health inspectors in the Perumbavoor health circle and asked the health department to deploy more health and sanitation workers in Perumbavoor.
 
 The collector said that officials with the district administration have carried out inspection at 210 labour camps in Perumbavoor. The collector said that 18 camps are lying in a bad condition. 
 
 
