PATNA: Hours after PM   accepted cricketer Virat Kohli’s fitness challenge on Thursday, Bihar’s leader of opposition   took to Twitter and handed him a different challenge.

 Tejashwi, who earlier dabbled in cricket and batted in one Ranji Trophy match and two limited-over games for Jharkhand, tweeted, “While we have nothing against accepting fitness challenge from @imVkohli (Virat Kohli), I urge you to accept the challenge to provide jobs to young, relief to farmers, promise of no violence against dalits and minorities. Would you accept my challenge @narendramodi Sir?”.
 
 Tejashwi shared the dais with top opposition leaders in Bengaluru on Wednesday to witness the swearing-in ceremony of Karnataka CM H D Kumaraswamy. He was in fact the only political leader from   to attend the ceremony.
 
 Tejashwi has been leading RJD ever since party president and his father Lalu Prasad was jailed in December after his conviction in multi-crore fodder scam cases. After Karnataka governor   last week invited BJP to form the government as it was the single largest party, Tejashwi had met Bihar governor Satya Pal Malik and staked claim to form government as RJD is also the single largest party in the state.
 
 The ‘Hum Fit Toh India Fit’ challenge was started by Union sports minister Rajyavardhan Rathore, who posted a short video of himself doing push-ups. He tagged Kohli, badminton player Saina Nehwal and actor Hrithik Roshan in the video, challenging them to post their own exercise videos.
 
 Kohli responded to it on Wednesday by posting a video of his gym training and tagged his wife Anushka Sharma, cricketer Mahendra Singh Dhoni and PM Modi.
 
 Modi, a practitioner of Yoga, responded on Thursday morning, tweeting, "Challenge accepted, Virat! I will be sharing my own #FitnessChallenge video soon.”
 
 Tejashwi’s challenge to the PM prompted even   president Rahul Gandhi to throw a challenge to Modi. “Dear PM, Glad to see you accept the @imVkohli fitness challenge. Here’s one from me: Reduce fuel prices or the Congress will do a nationwide agitation and force you to do so. I look forward to your response. #FuelChallengetook,” Rahul tweeted on Thursday afternoon.
 
 
