BHUBANESWAR:   Dharmendra Pradhan has requested the Odisha government to reconsider its decision of boycotting the central government’s development initiative for 115 backward districts in the country.

 In almost identical letters addressed to chief minister   and chief secretary Aditya Prasad Padhi on January 12, and released to media on Sunday, Dharmendra wrote that avoidable controversies were being created over Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s focus on equitable development across the country through the Transformation of Aspirational Districts plan.
 
 “Our political differences should not come in the way of development initiatives for common man, youths, women, scheduled castes, scheduled tribes and backward class people,” Dharmendra wrote to Naveen.
 
 PM’s focus is on implementing best practice in one district in others and encourage the district collectors who have been performing well, he wrote. Dharmendra requested the CM and the chief secretary to listen to Modi’s address at a meeting of Niti Aayog on development of these ‘aspirational’ districts on January 5. On January 7 also Dharmendra had requested Naveen through media to reconsider the state’s opposition to the move.
 
 The Centre has selected 115 backward districts in the country, including eight from Odisha, and appointed joint secretary-level officers as prabharis (in-charge) of these districts for better implementation of government initiatives there.
 
 Odisha has been opposing the move. The state’s contention is that appointment of   officers as ‘prabharis’ of districts infringe country’s federal structure. It is also opposed to the way the districts of Rayagada, Kalahandi, Kandhamal, Gajapati, Dhenkanal, Balangir, Koraput and Malkangiri were selected unilaterally without the state’s consultations.
 
 The chief secretary on December 6 had written to Niti Aayog outlining Odisha’s reservations. He had written that signing of MoU with Niti Aayog, which is envisaged as part of the Centre’s initiative, and appointment of prabhari officers has constitutional complications, which must be discussed in the Inter-State Council.
 
 Government chief whip and BJD spokesperson Amar Prasad Satpathy on Sunday said the state has reasons to be apprehensive the way the prabhari officers and the districts were selected unilaterally by the Centre bypassing the federal norms of consensus through consultations. “We are not anti-development. But the Union government’s move is for greater centralization of power at Delhi and could be dangerous for the democracy,” Satpathy said.
 
