PUDUCHERRY: The   on Tuesday fired more than 10 rounds of   to disperse two clashing groups during a public consultation that was being held to elicit views from people on the expansion of a chemical industry at  . A home guard and a dozen of people from the two groups sustained minor injuries.

 Tension gripped the locality as soon as the public consultation commenced at 10am. A large number of people assembled in front of the venue (a wedding hall) to attend the meet when another group of people reached there carrying black flags and raised slogans against the proposed expansion of   Limited. 
 
 The group opposing the expansion argued that the industry had polluted air, land and water in the locality and further expansion of the unit would spell doom for the locality and affect all sections of the people.
 
 District collector Satyendra Singh Dursawat cancelled the consultation and left the venue. Soon a quarrel erupted between the two groups. They started throwing stones at each other. 
 
 The police lathicharged the clashing members of the two groups. When the clashed continued, the police fired more than 10 rounds of teargas. The protesters ran helter-skelter to safety, and the police managed to bring the situation under control.
 
 A section of local people claimed that the economic condition of the people vastly improved after the industry, established here two decades ago, had offered them employment. They charged that outsiders (people from other localities), who have attempted to extort money from the industrial management, had protested its expansion.
 
 AIADMK legislature party leader A Anbalagan and AINRC MLA Ashok Anand have urged the government not to accord permission for the expansion of the industry. 
 
 Ashok, who submitted a petition to the chief secretary on Monday, pointed out that the Puducherry government had passed three orders in the last two decades declaring that permission would not be accorded for establishing or for expansion of water-intensive chemical units located within 6km of the coastline. The unit is located less than 2km from the coastline, he argued. 
 
 
