Madurai: The Madurai bench of the Madras high court on Tuesday dismissed an appeal filed by a life convict who killed his son in 2010. The man committed the crime as he believed that the boy has become a stumbling block for him (convict) to maintain sexual relationship with his wife. 

 The appellant, Thangavel of Tirunelveli is a drunkard. He used to abused his wife sexually, whenever he was inebriated condition. When the son questioned his father’s conduct, their relationship became sour. On September 18, 2010, the man killed his son using a spade.
 
 Regarding that, Thangavel’s wife lodged a complaint before the Muneerpallam police in Tirunelveli who registered a case against him under various sections of the IPC. The additional sessions court in Tirunelveli on October 9, 2015 sentenced him to life. Against this, Thangavel filed an appeal.
 
 Dismissing the appeal, the division bench of justices S Vimala and T Krishnavalli said, “In the Indian context, it is very difficult to hear the wife deposing against her husband, especially when the financial background is poor and there are children to be maintained. The evidence of the wife in fact is corroborated by the evidence of the minor daughter as well as by the neighbour. It convinces the court’s mind that the accused murdered his son.”
 
 The bench also said that his case deserved more severe sentence. However, when the appeal is heard at this distant point of time, it may not be fair to enhance the sentence at this stage. In the result, his appeal is dismissed.”
 
 The court also said that a compensation of not less than Rs 3 lakh should be given to mother of the deceased under the Tamil Nadu Victim Compensation Scheme, 2013. It also directed the district child protection society (Tirunelveli) to grant Rs 2,000 each to her two minor daughters on a monthly basis for their education up to 18 years, under the sponsorship and foster care fund.
 
 Awarding compensation, the bench said, “In this case, no compensation has been awarded to the victim who has been doubly victimised on account of death of her son as well as incarceration of her husband, while the victim has to maintain two minor daughters. Under these circumstances, the court recommends that the district legal services authority (Tirunelveli) to conduct an enquiry with regard to the necessities of the victim and award adequate and suitable compensation, which shall not be less than Rs 3 lakh within two months from the court order.”
 
 
