MUMBAI: The city remains unaffected by the farmers' strike so far given that the usual volume of 550 truckloads arrived at Vashi   Saturday. Traders are reporting no shortages. Yet vegetable prices are at the upper end of the normal spectrum as retailers cite spoilage due to summer heat.

 
 APMC's former director and wholesale trader Shankar Pingale said, "The average number of 550 trucks arrived Saturday. The market is closed on Sunday so we will assess the impact on Monday morning. But our farmers are continuing to dispatch produce because they have cultivated a good crop, so we do not expect any shortage or price increase for Mumbaikars."
 
 Most vegetables are selling for Rs 60-80 per kg in retail markets of Khar, Andheri, Chembur, Bhandup, Malad and Borivli.
 
 Santosh Kesarwani, a greengrocer at Ahimsa Road, Khar, said, "The only visible increase has come in tomato which has risen to Rs 25-35 from Rs 16-20 earlier. Spoilage is rampant during summertime and this causes farmers and vendors to charge more. A 25-kg box is being quoted for Rs 800 instead of Rs 400. Also, vegetables grown within Maharashtra are cheaper than those which come from other states. Most of Mumbai's tomato supply arrives from farmlands in Karnataka and transporters are charging more to cover the distance because of the strike."
 
 On Sunday, tomato sold for Rs 40 per kg in certain shops of Chembur and Matunga but remained an average of Rs 25 in parts of Andheri and Bhandup.
 
 Cauliflower, lady finger, cluster beans (gavar) all sold for Rs 80 per kg in Andheri East, Khar, Chembur and Bandra East. The typical variation across localities was apparent in the quality and cost of produce.
 
 Meanwhile the cost of fruit, especially watermelon has risen owing to the seasonal spike witnessed during the holy fast of Ramzan. A single fruit averaging 2.5 kg sells for Rs 65-70 at Rs 25 per kg. However, alphonso mangoes are available abundant and cheap at Rs 250-350 per dozen as the king of fruit has flooded the market. Lychees have made a grand entry at Rs 60-70 per dozen which should settle to Rs 40 as the days wear on.
 
 Milk prices are stable. Cattlesheds in Goregaon and Jogeshwari are unaffected by the milk farmers' agitation. "We hiked rates of loose milk before Ramzan and are now selling both cow and buffalo milk for Rs 70 per litre," said an attendant of Ghaswalla dairy in Jogeshwari. "The strike does not impact us."
 
 National dairies are doing their best to cope. The spokesperson of Mother Dairy Fruit & Vegetable said, "We are keeping a close watch on the situation. However, we have made adequate arrangements at our end to ensure (proper) sourcing as well as supplies to the market.”
 
