HYDERABAD: Central Bureau of Investigation and Central Crime Station in the city are flooded with bank fraud cases following the expose of Punjab National Bank scam.

 Soon after PNB scam was unfolded, bankers approached CCS and CBI and filed complaints. CCS registered six cases of bank fraud since then, and CBI booked two cases this year, and of 8 cases, six are booked after PNB case. 
  
 
 CCS deputy commissioner, Avinash Mohanty, told TOI, “Generally the default loan amounts of less than ?3 crore are filed with CCS. SBI,  , Syndicate Bank are among the complainants. We are surprised to see several bankers filing complaints,”
 
 On January 18, CCS booked a case based on the complaint filed by Syndicate Bank against SB Beverages Private Limited, and it’s promoters for cheating the bank’s Khairtabad branch of Rs 12 crore. The company took a loan for constructing a mineral water plant in Cherlapally.
 
 Ashok Kumar Das, assistant general manager of Syndicate Bank, regional office, Hyderabad’s complaint stated that SB Beverages Limited committed fraud after availing loan of Rs 12 crore. Five directors of the company P Amarender Reddy, D Sri Nagesh, D Ranga Raoand P Raja Shekar Reddy and P Manohar Reddy were named as accused.
 
 
 On February 5, CCS sleuths booked a case against a person who cheated Telangana Grameena Bank, previously known as Deccan Grameena Bank, of Saidabad by availing home loan by producing forged documents. Bala Kistaiah branch manager at Laxminagar Colony in Saidabad, filed the complaint.
 
 In the complaint, Bala Kistaiah alleged,“J Viswanath, a resident of   in Kothapet approached our bank for home loan limit of Rs 14.5 lakh,” Another complaint was filed by Telangana Grameena Bank on the same day alleging Rs 11.5 lakh loan was siphoned off.
 
 
 On February 22, Ravula Venkatesh, a city-based industrialist and MD of Cormo Automotive Private Limited, allegedly defrauded the State Bank of India’s Bible House branch of Rs 2.8 crores by mortgaging  , inflating value of other properties and diverting funds. Last week, CCS booked a cheating case against  , two promoters of the company.
 
 Another complaint was filed regarding siphoning of Rs 1.66 crore on February 22 and another one by SBI alleging ?2 crore fraud. The CBI registered a case against TGB officials for defrauding the bank to the tune of Rs 8.9 crore in February.
 
