PUNE: Nagpur oranges and other fruit crops in the Vidarbha region are bearing the brunt of a severe   as borewells in the region go dry. The current heat spell, coupled with little water, may drastically affect production of some horticulture crops.

 
  
  
 
 Growers said that, later this year, orange production may plunge by 50% to 80%, with other horticulture crops like pomegranate, custard apple as well as lemons facing a survival risk due to water paucity as well as heat.
 
 There is immense water shortage in the agricultural region of Vidarbha with crops on field facing a bleak future, said growers. Data from the state water resources department showed that average water stock in the reservoirs located in Vidarbha district, in Amravati, Akola, Buldhana and Yavatmal, has dropped to 15% as against the stock average of 23% last year on the same day.
 
 Farmers said that borewells have either gone dry or are only providing water for a short time during a 24-hour period.
 
  director   confirmed that many horticultural crops in Vidarbha are facing a survival risk. “In comparison to other summers, the water shortage this year is around 30% more severe. Even the pre-monsoon sowing is not expected to happen in some areas because of the lack of water,” he said.
 
 An orange farmer from Anjangaon Rishikesh Sontakke said that his plantations are drying and there has been a considerable fruit drop since summer began. “Heatwave conditions are there each year but what has further compounded the problem is the unavailability of water. Borewells are drying across Vidarbha because groundwater recharge was insufficient last monsoon,” he explained.
 
 Sontakke added that orange plantations are being given only 20% water. “Nagpur oranges slated to hit the markets later this year may be 50% less than normal due to water paucity in the region. The prices may rise too because of the short supply,” he said.
 
 Purushottam Mangte Patil, who owns a 16-acre farm and is the head of a farmers’ group in Balapur taluka of Akola, said, “Western Vidarbha had a deficient monsoon last year and the effects are visible off late. There is no water to irrigate crops like onion, groundnut and fruit crops, which is causing severe losses. Farmers are now sitting at home, waiting for the monsoon. Of 24 hours, borewells are providing just 10 minutes of water, which is being used for drinking purposes.”
 
 Namdev Tanpure, who has a 30-acre orange farm in Vidarbha, expects a yield of just 50 tonnes oranges later this year. During a normal season, the yield can go up to 100-120 tonnes. “Borewells have been running dry since nearly 45 days. My 820ft borewell has very little water, while water in the one located 1.5km from my place is also getting scarce. I am seeing significant fruit dropping due to heat stress and absence of water,” he said.
 
 Amol Totey, executive president of the Orange Growers Association of India ( ), told TOI that a lot of locations in Vidarbha and Marathwada are facing water shortage. “This can cause two types of damage to oranges — dropping of fruit from the winter crop slated to be harvested later this year and plant mortality, if the situation continues. If the heat spell and water shortage continues, the situation may worsen. The extent of damage will be known after May 15,” he said.
 
