VADODARA: Body of  , the 24-year-old electronic shop owner from Bhayli, who had gone missing since March 2, was found dumped in the effluent treatment plant (ETP) channel near Ampad village on the city’s outskirts on Monday. 

 Patel’s SUV car was found abandoned by cops at Ankodiya village on March 3 with blood stains on the seat.
 
 Police sources said that locals of Jaspur and Ampad village sighted the body and informed them. After his car was found, the police were searching for him on the basis of his call detail records and mobile location. Patel’s last mobile location was found near Jaspur after which the police had alerted the sarpanch of Jaspur and nearby villages about him.
 
 After fishing out the body, the cops found that his throat was slit using a sharp weapon and there were injury marks on his forehead. It is suspected that more than one person was involved in killing Patel. His body was sent for post-mortem to get more clues about the crime. 
 
 When contacted by TOI, Patel’s father Ashwin, who also has an electronics shop in Bhayli said, “He had no business enmity with anyone. I have suspicion on some persons but I cannot reveal much about them right now. They had got into a fight with my son in the past as well.” He also suspects that assailants, who are known, had called Patel for meeting when he reached home on March 2 after meeting his parents.
 
 After working with his father for years at his electronics shop, Patel had opened a new shop in Padra a month ago in partnership.
 
 It was only next day that Ashwin got to know that Bhaumik was missing when the latter did not come to meet him as per his daily schedule and his phone was switched off. When Ashwin went to Patel’s hjouse near Bright Day School in Bhayli, he found it locked. Later, the building’s watchman had told Ashwin that Patel had not returned home since the previous night and he had gone to a nearby soda shop after which he was not seen. On March 3, Vadodara rural police contacted Ashwin after they found Patel’s SUV car abandoned near Ankodiya village.
 
 
