NEW DELHI: With Hardik Patel’s endorsement of   chief   further stoking the wrangling over who should lead the opposition in   elections,   general secretary   told Subodh Ghildiyal no other leader other than   can helm the anti-BJP axis.

 
 
 Rahul Gandhi. Congress is a national party, with presence in every village. The countrymen expect Congress to provide the leadership. While our workers will always say so, even people want it.
 
 
 
 I don’t know what he said and in what context. So, I don’t want to comment on it. Rahul Gandhi is the Congress president and people want the leadership to be with a national party. Without that, our party will get stuck. If the Congress rank and file feels they have no role in the leadership of the country, why will they work? So, even the Congress brass cannot afford to consider such a thought (of conceding the leadership to another party). Even if Congress wants to show magnanimity, how can it if its worker is not ready?
 
 
 
 This is the proper time.   has taken the timely initiative to bring together the opposition, like she had done in 2002.
 
 
 
 He just assumed the charge of Congress two months ago. When there is greater interaction with the opposition, I am sure he will become the leader. I am sure the opposition will show wisdom and, given the kind of government Narendra Modi is running, it will realise that leadership should be with Congress under Rahul Gandhi.
 
 
 
 No party likes the present situation in the country — of violence, hatred, insensitivity and an atmosphere of fear. Even NDA partners do not like it. Allies may leave the BJP closer to elections. Even BJP leaders resent that just Amit Shah and Narendra Modi are ruling the country.
 
 
 
 Despite the BJP getting a full majority, Modi has neither fulfilled his promises nor implemented his plans. Every section of the country is angry. So, how will this government return to power? Farmers, youth and women are disappointed. Modi just has his oratory. But oratory does not give you food or jobs or remunerative crop prices. We will put forth our agenda as delivered by Manmohan Singh government. We provided employment, brought in Food Security Act for the poor, enacted RTI for transparency. BJP just gave a slogan of bringing back black money and controlling inflation but has done nothing.
 
 
 
 Modi’s thoughts about a party, which fought for independence and faced brutality at the hands of the British, will sink him. He has no right to talk about Gandhi or Patel. He has no commitment to them but is only using their names to garner votes.
 
