PANAJI: Alleging that planning and development authorities (PDAs) are being used to subvert the law and ‘regularise’ illegalities that are not permitted under the Regional Plan 2021, Goa Bachao Abhiyan ( ) convener   has demanded that the government strike down all PDAs.

 GBA has stated that no new attempts at regional or local planning should be made until the implementation of the 73rd and 74th amendments and enactment of the Goa Town and Country Planning (Amendment) Bill of 2009. The bill was published in the gazette in March 2009 and has been kept in cold storage. “Powers were to be given to local bodies through this amendment, but somewhere down the line they scuttled the bill,” Martins said, adding that the legislators didn’t want this power to go to the people.
 
 “Planning is happening outside the planning process that is enshrined in the Constitution. If we have good governance in place, people don’t have to go to court to get justice. Once and for all, the government should legislate the 73rd and 74th amendment included in planning laws and start planning immediately,” Martins said, while addressing reporters on Wednesday.
 
 “If the government can bring order into the method of planning, this will benefit businesses,” general secretary   said. 
 
 “Business requires some kind of certainty to function and we don’t see business taking off in Goa if the government keeps forcing things down people’s throats and then people rise up and it is overturned,” Saha said.
 
 Benedict D’Souza, representing his village of Parra, said the village with a low density of population of around 5,000 people doesn’t merit a PDA. He alleged that legislators are using the   to convert fields into settlement areas for their own and ulterior interests. Villagers in Parra are in the process of starting a signature campaign and writing letters to the government asking that the PDAs be scrapped.
 
 Arturo D’Souza of ‘Goenkars Against PDAs’ said the anti-PDA peaceful protest on April 6 will only be held at Azad Maidan as Section 144 is still in force at the Patto area.
 
 
