Nagpur: Street vendors who sell flowers, vegetables, fruits, etc are the biggest challenge in eradicating plastic bags. These vendors use thin 20 micron plastic bags which are harmful to the environment. The plastic bags are neither reusable nor recyclable. The vendors said that they would lose business if they hand over items without packing them in plastic bags as people riding on two-wheelers and cars usually stop by their stalls.  “Two-wheeler riders demand plastic bags which can be hanged on their vehicles. Now, we wrap flowers in newspapers. Bike riders find it hard to carry the parcels,” said Shubham Dhurve, a flower vendor at Gokulpeth market who buys old newspapers at Rs15/kg for this purpose. “Big garlands cannot be packed in this way. We’ll face a lot of difficulty during festival season. Besides, we carry delicate flowers like roses in huge polythene bags from the wholesale market. Now, we will have to use gunny bags which will damage the flowers.” The use of gelatin paper around flower bouquets is not permissible as per the new rules. “This covering protects the flowers from air and heat and keeps the bouquet fresh for long time. Now, we are using glaze paper which gets soggy,” says florist Chindu Fulwale. The plight of fruit vendors is no better. “We are packing fruits in paper bags but they are of cheap quality and cannot hold even 1kg fruits,” said Rajesh Gupta, a fruit vendor in Dharampeth.  “Some organizations have approached us with cloth bags costing Rs10/piece but that’s too expensive,” he said. “We get 100 plastic bags for Rs125. Now, buying cloth bags will increase the cost which customers will have to pay,” he said. Athar Khan, who sells coconut water, uses a needle and thread to tie coconuts if a customer wants to carry more than one home. “Many customers prefer to have it here but with ban on plastic straws I don’t know how they will drink the water,” he said.  Buying 50 micron bag to pack mutton, fish and poultry will escalate the price said Bobby Madaney, a vendor at Mankapur. “I can’t pack it in paper bags as it’s messy. Customers fusses over prices and extra Rs10 will irk them further,” he said. Harsh Gupta of Subhash Mishtan Bhandar is trying hard to convince his customers that he can’t pack food items in plastic bags.  “Packing five to ten kachori, samosa or vada in a paper bag is not possible. Besides, items like jalebi make bag soggy and sticky so customers don’t like it,” said Gupta who will be using 50 micron bags and will pass the extra cost to customers.