PANAJI: The increasing ubiquity of technology, and the toxicity of the   it generates, may make for a perilious future for Goa. The actual toxic content in many commonly-used products may be very little, but in a state with a notoriously poor waste management system and heavy rainfall, environmentalists have raised concerns about potential problems if this goes on unchecked. 

 Batteries, cartridges, mercury-based products and other such items aren’t handled any differently from regular waste in Goa. This tech refuse is either carelessly dumped or fed into collection systems. And while the state government’s focus is on solid waste management, sources say that toxic waste tends to be treated as a minor problem. 
 
 “The waste comprises two categories — high volume of it with little toxicity, and that too well spread-out, and small quantities of waste with higher toxicity,” says Pradip  , member secretary, Goa state biodiversity board (GSBB). This waste, if it leaches out during heavy rainfall, may pose a danger to the ecology and biodiversity, experts say. 
 
 “It has already been found in several instances that this toxic waste is ultimately deposited in body parts of birds, especially migratory birds, guts of fish, shell fish and other sea food,” Sarmokadam said. “Through the entry of these in ‘roots’ zones, they may also be taken by plants, and eventually eaten by higher predators.”
 
 The risk to the biodiversity and humans is that it may be difficult to trace the source of the toxic substances. While research in this area is scant, experts agree that the long-term consequences of mixing hazardous waste with other garbage are worrisome. Sources say that while it may be composted unwittingly with other waste and believed to be below permissible level, the aspect of bio-concentration can’t be ignored. 
 
 Others point out that safeguarding the integrity of soil is important to protect human beings at the top of the food chain. 
 
 “All life forms originate from soil, and if we allow it to get contaminated with toxic substances, we have to be prepared for the consequences,” says Manoj Borkar, an associate professor of zoology and environmental biology.
 
 While due to laterite soil, this toxic waste may not enter the sea, it’s not the case with nearby water modies and aquatic life, which could be more vulnerable. 
 
 Foreign studies have shown that this has a huge impact on fish, making them restless and disoriented. 
 
 Borkar says that new molecules that have been invented have non-biodegradable substances. “New types of wastes defy natural decomposition processes, and are not ecologically and environment benign,” he said. “In our larger interest, the basic thing is to conserve the soil, but unfairly the focus is over conservation of things over the ground.” 
 
 Goa waste management corporation (GWMC) officials say that local self-governing bodies have been encouraged to collect toxic waste. “Once they collect and store a substantial quantity of it, it is taken to the recycler of e-waste,” Sanjit Rodrigues, managing director, GWMC, said.
 
 Meanwhile, garbage managers concur that proper segregation of waste is a key element for human safety. Sarmokadam agrees. “Segregation of waste at source is vital,” he says.
 
 
