JHANSI: Taking a dig at the   leaders who recently met West Bengal chief minister Mamata Banerjee to drum up support for a third front ahead of 2019 elections, Union minister and Jhansi MP   said that they were like the rickshaw-pullers and labourers in Lucknow who claim to be descendants of Avadh’s Nawab  .

 In an exclusive chat with TOI during her visit to Jhansi, Bharti said, “These people have no role in national politics or in the party. Their situation is similar to rickshaw-pullers and labourers in Lucknow who still boast that they are descendants of Wajid Ali Shah.”
 
 Disgruntled BJP leaders Shatrughan Sinha, Yashwant Sinha and Arun Shourie had met Trinamool Congress chief Mamata Banerjee recently in New Delhi to discuss the formation of a front to take on PM Narendra  .
 
 Bharti said the third front has no future as it was being formed with the negative ideology of defeating PM Modi. “Whenever a third front was formed, be it after Emergency or during the regime of VP Singh and HD  , BJP always supported it. But parties coming together now have no standing outside their states. This front has no ideology except to oppose PM Modi. They have nothing to offer to the country. Ay polarisation against PM Modi will fail.”
 
 Talking about corruption, Uma said that bureaucrats were not able to keep pace with PM Modi and CM Yogi Adityanath. “Corruption like terrorism is selfgenerated and to suppress it, we have to work at a pace faster than its growth. To fight corruption, bureaucrats need to change their mindset.”
 
 When asked about the statehood demand for Bundelkhand, she said that people of Madhya Pradesh do not want a separate state. “In case of UP, if a map with properly defined boundaries is made, it can be put up before States Reorganisation Commission.”
 
 When asked about her decision of not contesting election for next three years, she said, “I had taken sanyas way back in 1992. Presently, my health is not very good and doctors have suggested that I should lead a disciplined life. Hence, I decided not to contest any elections but I will be working for the party.”
 
 She said that BJP’s only challenge in 2019 will be to stand up to people’s expectations. “We will have to answer how many promises mentioned in our manifesto have been fulfilled.”
 
