BENGALURU: As of Friday morning, 1,006 judges in Karnataka’s courts are saddled with 16.3 lakh pending cases, making it possibly the worst in southern India on this count. Of these, 2.2 lakh are pending in the high court, 36,000 cases have been pending for 10 years or more, and over 20% are cases filed by seniors and women.

 The number of pending cases in Karnataka’s district and subordinate courts as on Friday (a little over 14 lakh, and 53% are criminal cases) was only 1,000-odd more than in December 2017. There’s no substantive change in the number of pending cases in the high court for the like period. Legal experts said other states, too, haven’t reported a big rise in this regard.
 
  
  
 
 “The most obvious option is to increase the number of judges,” said former   high court judge  . “But care must be exercised while selecting judges who can handle all types of cases.” He said the government and collegium must pick judges who were advocates with exposure to civil and criminal law.
 
 1 lakh cases were added to K’taka courts in March
 
 Of the 62 sanctioned posts in the Karnataka high court, 30 are filled. The state has 976 judicial officers in district and subordinate courts against the sanctioned strength of 1,303.
 
 
 
 If all 1,006 judges sitting in the high court, district courts and subordinate courts of Karnataka worked for the next 365 days, they would have to dispose of five cases a day, without factoring in new cases. In March alone, 1lakh cases — about 3,225 a day — were added to the state’s courts.
 
 The high court with just 30 judges has to hear 2.17 lakh pending cases — each has to handle an average of 7,200-odd cases. In other courts, each judge will have to deal with 1,461pending cases.
 
 Besides increasing the number of judges, former   judge   said, the government and   must think of other solutions: Reduce the number of appeals; make the high court the final court for all nonconstitutional matters (as in the US), and scrutinize and penalize speculative litigants in lower and high courts.
 
 Activists said the large number of pending cases often destroys lives. Some litigants have gone bankrupt fighting civil cases, said an advocate.
 
