KOZHIKODE: If you thought smugglers who have several tricks up their sleeve to walk past the customs with the contraband are the smartest of the lot, think again.

 A growing number of informers are winning handsome rewards from the customs department by tipping off the officials with specific information leading to the seizure of gold and other contraband from smugglers.
 
 The   (preventive) in the state has exhausted their annual allocation of reward money of Rs 40 lakh for this fiscal in January, 2018 itself. The commissionerate has written to the authorities to provide additional grant for the remaining two months.
 
  
 
 Interestingly, government servants have bagged the most of the rewards for effecting seizures of contraband.
 
 “Of the total of reward payments of Rs 40 lakh this fiscal, Rs 15 lakh has been paid to informers and Rs 25 lakh to government officials. In 2016-17 too we had exhausted the allotted reward money of Rs 38 lakh by January with Rs 15 lakh paid to informers and Rs 23 lakh to government officials," said Sumit Kumar, customs commissioner.
 
 The figures does not include reward money paid by the customs formations under the Customs House, Kochi.
 
 He said that the revised guidelines issued by   ( ) in 2015 has made the reward scheme for informers more attractive and hasslefree.
 
 Under the scheme, informers and government servants are eligible for reward of upto 20% of the net sale proceeds of the contraband goods seized. Also, the reward for informers who provide information leading to the seizure of gold has been increased to Rs 1,500 per 10 gram and in case of absolute confiscation of gold and silver jewellery, the reward shall be 20% of the net sale proceeds of the jewellery plus the amount of penalty imposed.
 
 To avoid delays in payment of rewards, informers are paid 50% of the total admissible reward immediately on seizure for gold/silver bullion and 25% of the reward for currency seizure. The final reward will be made after the conclusion of adjudication/ appeal proceedings.
 
 Sumit Kumar said that absolute confidentiality regarding the identity of the informant will be maintained and informant is not required to provide name and other details at the time of giving the tipoff.
 
 “We would like to encourage people to come forward and share information that could lead to seizures. We are giving handsome rewards and in big cases we can enhance the reward to 30% of the value. We don’t even ask for names or any other information and only left thumb impression is taken to ensure that the person can be identified by some means for payment of reward. Even if the information turns out to be wrong there is no adverse reaction,” Sumit Kumar said.
 
 The specificity and accuracy of information, the risk and trouble undertaken and the clues given about persons involved in smuggling are considered while granting reward for informers.
 
 While government servants are not provided reward for routine and normal nature of work, they are rewarded for collection of intelligence, surveillance and seizure. The risk involved and the difficulty in securing the information are also considered. Officials of other government agencies like  , Air India,   etc and other agencies are also eligible for rewards.
 
