From taking the political plunge to serving a six-month prison term in a corruption case in 2011 before being acquitted last year, all in the span of a decade or so, Kanimozhi’s political career has been a roller-coaster ride. Keen now on proving her mettle, the Rajya Sabha MP and daughter of   chief M Karunanidhi has completely engrossed herself in party work. In an interview with Julie Mariappan, the DMK’s women’s wing president talks about the party’s plan for elections, her confidence in the leadership of M K Stalin and why she is happy with her role in the party. Excerpts. 

 
 
 
 Our working president (M K Stalin) has made it clear that this was not (for) a political or electoral alliance. It was about protecting the state’s rights and upholding federal principles that constitute the DMK’s ideology. Our leader, Kalaignar was a champion of federalism and the working president is continuing that. Of course, it is a unanimous thought that the opposition must unite. My discussion with both was about their views on the present government and the possibility of a secular government at the Centre.
 
 
 
 The Supreme Court is the highest judicial forum. If you drag it into a controversy, people will lose faith in the institution. So, we were reluctant. Yes, we got an invite from Congress, but we told them that we will support if the impeachment notice is taken up in Parliament.
 
 
 
 
 We have a very comfortable relationship with the Congress. We are in touch with leaders of almost all parties in Delhi. I don’t think there are any strains between the two parties.
 
 I cannot say the DMK and the Congress will be together for the next 50 or 100 years. But, I don’t see any discordance in the near future. Our relationship with the Congress is very comfortable and I am always happy to meet Sonia Gandhi. Rahul Gandhi also has very cordial relationship with our working president.
 
 Also, I don’t think the Congress leadership is upset (about Mamata and KCR talking to Stalin). When there was an all-party dinner (hosted by Congress), the TMC was present. 
 
 
 
 
 We are anti-BJP. We will bring all parties together to align against the BJP. We expect and demand that any government at the Centre should treat states with dignity and follow the constitution in letter and spirit in all interactions with the states.
 
 
 
 
 I cannot make decisions for other parties nor can I make these decisions (in DMK). There has not been any such move. How can I foretell what will happen in the future? Let us see how things shape up.
 
 
 
 
 It may make no difference to the DMK. But it might add some colourful dimensions.
 
 
 
 
 I have a leader and I don’t see a vacuum. My party has entrusted him to lead it. It is not just for elections. Our working president (Stalin) did not wait for a vacuum. In fact, he created the space and came in when MGR was alive. I think that his vast experience in government and party work counts.
 
 
 
 It was the DMK which pushed for the Cauvery tribunal and got it. AIADMK leader J Jayalalithaa said the tribunal was a waste of time. Despite that we got the tribunal award and the tribunal directed the setting up of the board. However, this was immediately challenged before the Supreme Court. When our leader (Karunanidhi) was chief minister, he made sure Cauvery water flowed into Tamil Nadu. The larger issue is to find a permanent solution. TN government should ensure that Cauvery Management Board is set up and strongly represent its case in the court.
 
 Despite a power struggle in the ruling camp, the EPS government successfully completed one year. Your comment…
 
 It is a proxy government of the BJP. The state government has given in to the Centre on everything, from NEET to Cauvery. There is corruption in MNREGA too.
 
 Detractors say you will be confined to a limited role within the DMK... 
 
 I am secretary of the women’s wing, an important part of the party. I have started going for review meetings in every district. I have explained my plans to the working president. He is quite encouraging.
 
 
 
 
 He is not able to speak because of the tracheostomy. I meet him regularly but cannot have long conversations. When I return from Parliament, I meet him and update him.
 
 
 
 
 Not daily. When it is necessary, yes, he does ask me. He advises me about Delhi.
 
 
 
 
 Not in the recent years, no. Maybe initially, a few days (smiles).
 
 
 
 
 I don’t think Sasikala stands a chance (smiles)
 
 
