In the latest episode of  , Arohi wonders where did Deep and Tara go to. Arohi sees Deep's car there and feels they must be around. Deep is confused as to why did Tara get him out of the party. Arohi finds them and stops Tara from saying something by pressing the beep button she secretly fit in Tara's earring. Tara sees Arohi and runs. They both face off. Arohi tells Tara that she will soon reveal the truth about her but Tara stops her.

 Deep searches for Tara but the kids cover her mouth with a cloth which makes her faint. Arohi sees Deep coming behind them and tells Chawani to take Tara away.
 
  Arohi pretends to be Tara and talks to Deep. She tells him she is not feeling well. Deep tells her that they should go to the doctor but Arohi accuses him of not trusting her. She makes him promise her that he will never doubt her. Deep agrees and says they should look forward to their new life with the baby. Deep asks her why did she bring him out of the party.
 
  Arohi/Tara asks him if he told Roma and Virat about the real Arohi. Deep says no and tells her that he will find out the truth for himself first.
 
  Prithvi tries to warn Virat about Deep and Tara's involvement. Deep comes in and Virat asks him whether the crime had been solved. Deep goes, taking Tara with him. Virat stops Tara and accuses her of putting Deep in trouble. Virat tells her that she was the one who invited the dancer and made the video viral. Virat threatens to kill Tara. Deep stops him but Virat tells him not to meddle.
 
 Tara speaks up and says she did wrong. She then tells Virat that he was the one who tried to kill her on Holika Dahan so that their child couldn't get rights to the property. Deep gets shocked and pushes him. Roma comes in and sees them fighting.
 
 They try to hide the matter and tell Roma that they fought in a fit of rage. Roma takes Tara away and warns them.
 
 Deep comes in and blindfolds Tara, telling her that he has a surprise for her. Tara is scared. He takes her to the baby's nursery he set up himself.Tara gets happy seeing this.
 
 The next morning, Roma comes looking for Deep and Tara. She tells them that Deep shouldn't have decorated the room and should have waited for some time. Deep tells her that he wanted to see her happy. Roma tells him to cook for Tara, all by himself. They all smile. Roma tells Tara to be happy and maintain a positive environment for the child.
 
