PUDUCHERRY: After June, the   party will have only   chief minister V   to showcase as a Congress CM in the country, said   Narendra   on Sunday. “Narayanasamy will become a show piece for the Congress party. Do you know the reason why? I will tell you. After June, Congress party will have only Narayanasamy to showcase as a chief minister from the party in the country,” he said while addressing a public meeting in Puducherry on Sunday. 

 While chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh has been heading a Congress government in Punjab since March 2017, the outcome of assembly elections in Karnataka and Meghalaya, both currently ruled by Congress, will be known before June.
 
 Modi urged intellectuals to analyse the reasons for the lack of progress in the country and asked them to compare 48 years of rule directly or indirectly by one family with the 48-month rule of the current BJP-led NDA government at the  . 
 
 “The country’s first Prime Minister (Jawaharlal Nehru) was in power for 17 years, his daughter (Indira Gandhi) for 14 years and her son (Rajiv Gandhi) for five years. Then, there was a remote control government of the family between 2004 and 2014. Now the intellectuals must analyze what the one family, which directly or indirectly ruled the country for 48 years, achieved and compare it with what the current government achieved in 48 months,” Modi said while addressing a public meeting at Lawspet in Puducherry.
 
 He said reasons for the lack of progress in the country should be analysed. “We attained independence in 1947. Many countries attained independence much later. Those countries have developed rapidly. We need to ask ourselves what we lack in our political culture and in our system that we are still lagging behind several nations,” he said.
 
 He said the Union territory of Puducherry despite having the potential to excel and attain number uno position, the territory remained underdeveloped because of the Congress culture. He said the successive governments failed to understand the growing needs of the territory and its people and ‘development has taken a back seat.”
 
 “Once a textile hub, Puducherry lost its glamour. Cooperative societies faded away and transport sector is in shambles. Despite being in power for a long period in Puducherry, Congress failed to equip the territory with adequate infrastructural facilities. Congress leaders here and at New Delhi must answer Puducherry people for the lack of development. They have done a grave injustice to the people here,” he said.
 
 He questioned the Congress leaders at New Delhi as to why polls to the local bodies in Puducherry were not held for a long time. “Why have they deprived the rural people of their basic democratic rights by not holding the local body polls?” he asked.
 
 He also questioned the Congress government in Puducherry for preventing MLAs nominated to the legislative assembly from discharging their duties.
 
 Listing out the schemes extended by the Union government for the all-round development of Puducherry he expressed optimism that the Union territory will evolve as a tourist hub. “Air services in Puducherry have been resumed under Udan (Ude Desh Ka Aam Nagrik) scheme. Now Puducherry is connected by air with Bengaluru and Hyderabad. Tourism will thrive if the infrastructural facilities and connectivity are good,” he said.
 
 Earlier, lt governor Kiran Bedi, Narayanasamy and his cabinet colleagues received Modi on his arrival. Modi visited Sri Aurobindo Ashram and meditated for a few minutes at the Samadhi of the freedom fighter turned philosopher Sri Aurobindo and his spiritual collaborator Mirra Alfassa, revered as the Mother by followers. He later visited the rooms of Sri Aurobindo and the Mother where their personal belongings including their manuscripts are preserved. He visited the Sri Aurobindo International Centre of Education before proceeding to Auroville. 
 
 
 
 
