THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Over the past week thousands had offered their support to the hunger strike undertaken by   in front of the secretariat demanding justice for his brother. While the dominant narrative is that Sreejeev was allegedly subjected to custodial torture, the statement of the doctors who first treated him, which rules this out have not been publicized so far.

 TOI examined the case in detail and perused all available documents — starting from the FIR charged against Sreejeev in the mobile phone theft case registered in 2013 to the verdict of   delivered on May 15, 2016. While all the initial documents show that Sreejeev’s death was a suicide, the custodial murder angle received credence after the probe by Justice K Narayana Kurup.
 
 
  
 
 Admission report from the taluk hospital, Parassala, and the statement of doctor who first treated Sreejeev, says ingesting poison was the primary reason for his death. In his statement before the special investigation team that probed the unnatural death, Shaji E B, the resident medical officer who was on casualty duty when Sreejeev was brought to the hospital from Parassala police station said that he showed all the symptoms of consumption of poison.
 
 The statement says that he was brought with the help of two policemen and when asked what happened, Sreejeev said he had consumed poison, the colour which was green. On examination, it was found that he had consumed poison containing organo phosphorous. Sreejeev’s brother has accused the cops of forcefully making him consume poison.
 
 “I was convinced that he had consumed poison as he was profusely sweating, saliva was oozing from his mouth and his pupils were seen shrunk and also from his statement,” he said. The doctor immediately injected him with Efcorlin 100mg, one ampule of Atropine and 25% dextrose injection. He also put him on an intravenous saline.
 
 “Since he was very restless I injected him with life-saving steroid Efcorlin. He was put on IVF normal saline to get his blood pressure steady. Since his pupils were shrunk, he was profusely sweating and shivering, Atropine injection was given to reduce the intensity of the poison,” the statement said.
 
 After the doctor was convinced that specialised treatment will be required he was referred to the medical college hospital. The doctor had given a detailed statement to SPCA on this regard and stated that there were no symptoms of physical torture.
 
 The doctor said that he did not issue a wound certificate because there were no marks on his body from physical torture. There were no signs of him being forcefully fed the poison nor did he make any such allegation. Sreejeev lost his life on May 21 at the medical college hospital.
 
 On November 22, 2014, a report (No 6773 of October 21, 2014) by S Sivasuthan, professor and head of department of forensic medicine, said that the death was due to Carbofuran poisoning. The chemical analysis report contradicts the findings of the SPCA that 63g of Furadan is not required for killing a person, by quoting the   (WHO) and FAO specifications.
 
 After his death, a suicide note was recovered from the room at MP Square Lodging, Attingal, where he stayed prior to arrest. The note said: “Enikku jeevitham maduthu, njan pokunnu” (I am fed up of life, I am leaving). Examining the handwriting of the letter and the entry register of the lodge, the forensic lab inferred that the handwritings were same. “The collective occurrence of the similarities in writing characteristics seen in the questioned and standard items is only due to their common authorship and not due to any accidental coincidence or attempted imitation,” the FSL report said, asserting that Sreejeev himself had written the suicide note. When asked about the contradictions, Sreejith’s counsel and senior advocate   said: “Death in police custody is altogether a different matter. It should not be compared to normal deaths and relied merely on forensic or other reports”. He also said it is unfair for the police to sit in judgement as the case involved police itself. “Till now no external agency has probed this case which is why a   probe is being sought,” he said.
 
