With the 
  just a day let's review the strengths and weaknesses of the four surviving contestants who are fighting for the top spot in the reality show. The BB winner will be announced on the basis of voting. Be it either of the four, the winner will definitely take away a huge cash prize and the BB 11 trophy.

  was known as TV's Akshara while Shilpa was known for her role as Angoori Bhabhi. Both the actresses have made their presence felt and are tough competitors in true sense.
  was announced as the BB11 winner and she walked away with the BB trophy and a cash prize of RS. 44 lakh. But the other three finalists too have given tough competition and here's why they deserveing enough.
 
 Let's begin with one of the most talked about contestants of the show, Hina Khan.
 
 
  Hina's popularity and her huge fan following is one plus point that gives her an edge over the other contestants. Her outspoken nature got mixed reactions but it is definitely a plus point that she was fearless in making her opinion known. She has also been one of the most active participants of the Bigg Boss 11 house. This, among other things, always kept her in the public eye.
 
 
 
 : Hina Khan's plus points also proved to be her weakness when it came to making friends in the house. She was clearly a leading contestant from the start which made the other a little wary of her. She also got a lot of negative publicity for the way she behaved with the other inmates of the house. She also had more than one emotional outburst that drew criticism.
 
 
 
 
 
  Shilpa's motherly nature and caring attitude won her lot of fans, both inside and outside the Bigg Boss house. She was also able to exploit this angle to her advantage. Her homely personality made a lot of contestants warm up to her. Her popularity has a lot to do with her survival in the show. She also got a few brownie points for her patient approach with which she navigated her Bigg Boss 11 journey.
 
 
 
  She was more active in the kitchen than in the tasks. She was also criticized for this 'laid-back' attitude when it came to performing the tasks. Her self-sacrificing nature is another thing that went against her. Her over-emotional nature could have clouded her judgment more than once in the show. Whatever said and done, she still managed to stay until the end.
 
 
 
 
  Vikas earned the title of the 'mastermind' of the house for a reason. His calm and collected approach and the strategic alliances he formed within the house from time to time are two of his main strengths. Due to his networking skills, he was able to win a lot of support from the industry celebs who rooted for him outside the side. He managed to maintain a high profile in the house without inviting much negative criticism.
 
 
  Vikas has a few overdramatic moments in the show for which he was criticized. He was also seen to be a little cunning in his schemes. He was able to win over his nemesis Hina Khan and plot with her. This achievement of his shows that he was able to mold the others to suit his interests. It might have worked in his favour in the house but outside it but his manupulative streak was not looked at in a very good light outside of it.
 
 
  Puneesh, whose alleged affair with   Kalra, was a highlight of his stint in the show, was very proactive when tasks were concerned. He was also quick to form new friendships in the show. It is probably this trait of his that has kept him in the game longer than expected. He's one commoner who rose to a celebrity status.
 
 
 : His alleged affair with Bandagi and the way he carried on with her in the house got him a lot of negative reviews from both the inmates and the fans. His temper is another thing that didn't work for him. He flew off the lid more than once and came across as a stubborn personality.
 
  will bring down the curtains on the show that has kept the viewers entertained for the past few months. Keep watching this space for more such updates.
 
