NOIDA: The family members of BHEL  , who was shot dead by unidentified assailants on March 7, have written to the Prime Minister seeking a   probe in the matter.

 
 The kin have complained that police have not been able to make any breakthrough in the case even after a month and is only making false assurances to the family.
 
 Amit’s father Narvdeshwar Pandey has said that from the day Amit's body was recovered around 3:25 pm on March 8, there has been no satisfactory response from the police.
 
 Amit’s parents also met SSP   on Wednesday and conveyed to him that they are not satisfied with the police’s pace of probe at all.
 
 Prabhat Dwivedi, Amit’s brother-in-law told TOI that every time, they approach the police for any update in the matter, they get a response that the department is “working on the case sincerely.”
 
 Prabhat has sent a letter to the PM’s grievance redressal portal alleging that the "police is not doing anything" while seeking a CBI probe into the matter.
 
 Sumit Pandey, the younger brother of the deceased who works in a pharmaceutical company, has taken transfer from Lucknow fearing a similar attack on him. Meanwhile, police are still searching for a concrete lead in the case.
 
 Police sources confirmed that they are now focusing on the loot angle even as they are yet to establish why only his bag and mobile are missing. The mobile phone has not been put into use so far, so its purported sale can also not be confirmed.
 
 The family says that there seems to be a lack of coordination between the different teams like Sector 39 police, Cyber Cell and STF which were roped in to help in the case.
 
 SSP Gautam Budh Nagar Ajay Pal Sharma told TOI that the police are probing both loot and murder angle and have got some clues to support the former. “The connection is not final. The family suspects it to be a murder caused due his position in BHEL but our investigation will be based on evidence,” he said.
 
 Jaheer Khan, inspector, Cyber Cell told TOI that he will not be able to share any detail about the case and directed to Sector 39 police.
 
 Rajkumar Mishra, DSP, STF Noida said that there has been no breakthrough in the case as of now. “Sector 39 police is working on angles. Our team too is working on it,” he said.
 
 Pandey’s body was recovered with a bullet shot near a drain in Sector 105, a day after he was shot by unidentified assailant(s) on the night of March 7.
 
