CHENNAI: Sucking in carbon dioxide and replacing it with oxygen is not the only contribution of plants. A new study shows that 91 tree species are saviours in a polluted city, clearing the air of harmful sulphur dioxide, carbon monoxide and particulate matter. 

 
  
  
 
 The finding shows that green drives in the city have to move beyond merely providing shade and preventing soil erosion, and also address the problem of toxic gases and dust. The study by Chennai-based biodiversity organisation   shows that trees like   (naaval) is effective against sulphur dioxide, while  , soapnut and mandharai can remove lead from the atmosphere, said  , who led the study that was part of Development of Greening and Plantation Strategy for Chennai. "Trees which are planted close to each other act like a green barrier. They can remove 14% sulphur dioxide, 13% particulate matter, 8% nitrous oxide and .05% carbon monoxide," he said.
 
 While it is common knowledge that a building surrounded by trees uses less energy, in the form of airconditioning, as the greenery provides shade and brings down temperatures, some native species like tecoma stans, Albesia lebec, hibiscus tiliaceus, bauhinia variegate, soapnut and cordia obliqua can also absorb suspended particulate matter, shows the study. Trees such as tamarind, iluppai, Beauty of monosperma, magizham, kadambam, elandhai and vilvam are also capable of clearing dust.
 
 The role of trees in absorbing pollutants was first studied in 1994 by experts at the US Forest Service. "At that time they said urban vegetation can directly and indirectly affect local and regional air quality by altering the urban environment," Balaji said.
 
 Planting saplings in parking lots can help reduce the pollution emission from the vehicles up to 2%. There are three categories of plants, those that can absorb pollutants, those that cannot and ones that are can withstand pollution, so we need to choose the saplings we plant.
 
 The study shows big trees can absorb 70 times more air pollutants than smaller ones, sucking in as much as one-and-a-half kilogram me of air pollutants per year. However, without realising their value, old trees continue to be axed to facilitate road widening and other civic projects. But for optimum results, planting has to be done scientifically. For instance, around five rows of trees along the highway can help reduce noise pollution by at least five decibels.
 
 
