TRICHY: Criticizing the Tamil Nadu government for its silence over the Cauvery management board (CMB), DMK leader MK Stalin warned of intensified protests across the state in case of an unfavourable verdict by the Supreme Court, here on Saturday. 

 Before kicking off his   from Mukkombu here, Stalin said, “I hope there will be a positive verdict when the padayatra ends in Cuddalore on April 9. In case of any adverse verdict, the protests will be bigger than this across the state,” said Stalin. The hearing on the Cauvery water dispute case is scheduled for April 9 (Monday) in the Supreme Court.
 
 Stalin criticised both the Centre and state for for not constituting the Cauvery management board. “Karnataka government remained defiant over the judgement. Union minister Nitin Gadkari and his secretary also echoed the same view. Yet, the Tamil Nadu government did not have guts to condemn them. You are concerned about protecting your skins. DMK is ready to resign its 89 MLAs if   asks its 50 MPs to resign to demand CMB. But the state government did not make a single effort,” said Stalin.
 
 In his speech at Kallanai, Stalin praised former chief minister   for her approach towards the issues. “If the chief minister is Jayalalithaa, will the central government act like this in Cauvery issue?.” He made the comment while criticising chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswamy for being inactive.
 
 DK president K Veeramani flagged off the yatra after hoisting a flag designed for Cauvery rescue padayatra at Mukkombu at 5pm on Saturday. Opposition party leaders also joined the padayatra with Stalin and also spoke at Mukkombu.
 
 CPI state president R Mutharasan accused the state government of supporting the Central government against the Tamil Nadu people by remaining silent without exerting pressure.
 
 CPM state president   raised a doubt whether the rights of Tamil Nadu could be retrieved if the EPS government continued to be in power. “It is not a protest for politics or identity. The rescue padayatra will sound death knell for the BJP. If CMB is not formed, we will take out padayatra to dethrone Modi and EPS,” he said. 
 
 
