NEW DELHI: A   that robbed more than 50 people after offering them lifts from Gurugram to Delhi has been busted and four people have been arrested. 

 The highway   drove around in cabs and targeted executives working with private firms during peak hours or passengers looking for a ride at night from the airport. They offered them shared rides. 
 
 “A team led by ACP K P Kukrety and SHO Gagan Bhaskar was formed to track them after several incidents of people being robbed in hired cabs were reported around Mahipalpur in the past few months,” said Milind Mahadeo Dumbere, DCP, southwest. Three cars with commercial numberplates and two knives that they used to threaten their targets were found with the men, Rahul Kumar, Birender Pratap, Kamlesh Kumar and Tinku. Police also found 34 ATM cards, metro cards and mobile phones with them.
 
 On Friday, three of the gang members were going to meet a person at Delhi Cantt who would have helped them get rid of their loot. A police team apprehended them and questioned them about the products they were carrying, but they could not give an explanation. They later confessed that they were involved in more than 30 cases of robbery. The gang members led police to the  , Rahul, who was arrested from  . 
 
 The men told the police that they used to drive on NH-8, between Mahipalpur and  , looking for targets. One drove the car and the others posed as passengers. When the victim boarded the vehicle, he was forced to sit in the middle on the rear seat, after which the gang members held him at knifepoint. Police found that Rahul earlier worked with an app-based cab aggregator and took to crime to earn more. The other members of the group were labourers who wanted to make some money. 
 
 On April 7, the men had robbed a five-star hotel employee near Dhaula Kuan when he boarded their shared cab to go to Gurugram. Another passenger was attacked with a knife and dumped near Mahipalpur on April 2 after he resisted their attempt to rob him. 
 
 Police said seven such incidents had happened in the past few months.
 
 
