NOIDA: The   on Monday met 37 developers whose projects will face scrutiny in the next round of audit as the   looks at reasons behind the housing delay and looks for ways to create an oversight mechanism.

 The meeting comes a day after Noida issued notices to builders of 11 projects for allegedly diverting funds to the tune of Rs 4,000 crore meant for completion of housing projects in the city.
 
 Projects of the 37 developers called to the meeting are slated to be assessed in the next phase of the ongoing audit and will involving around 37,000 residential units. The developers have been asked to assist in the audit being carried out by Currie & Brown, an international consultant. This audit is expected to be completed in the next three weeks, officials said.
 
 Noida will conduct audits of 51 projects involving more than 70,000 housing units, officials said.
 
 The meeting was convened by Noida chairman and CEO Alok Tandon and was also attended by additional CEO A K Srivastava and officer on special duty (group housing) Santosh Kumar. “We have directed the builders to provide all assistance to the firm auditing their accounts without delay,” said Tandon. “Builders have been asked to provide necessary details for the audit besides furnishing information about housing projects,” he added.
 
 Tandon said the audit firm has to finish its job soon “so that we can take the matter forward and do justice to the demands raised by the homebuyers”. “We have to determine the physical and financial status of each project. Financial statements of all projects whose construction is incomplete, in the last five years between 2010-11 and 2016-17, will have to be made available by the developers of the projects for perusal. The aim is to safeguard the interest of homebuyers and help them get possession of their homes at the earliest.”
 
 Last year, homebuyers had sought audit of builders’ accounts to find out if they diverted money meant for construction of their houses to other businesses. On September 12, chief minister Yogi Aditya Nath had directed the CEOs of Noida, Greater Noida and   authorities to get an audit done.
 
 
