The Tri-colour went up to the beats of the Indian national anthem for the very first time in the athletics competition at the Carrara Stadium. It was all thanks to 20-year-old  , who announced his arrival in style by bagging the gold medal in the men’s javelin throw at the   on Saturday.

 
 Chopra, the World U-20 record holder from 2016, decimated his rivals with a monster first heave that measured 85.50m. He dashed down around 25m and unleashed the javelin, which went on its parabolic curve and kept going, beyond the reach of his competitors.
 
 His nearest rival, Australian Hamish Peacock, was nearly four metres behind as he took the silver with an effort that measured 82.59m on his fourth attempt. The bronze went to Grenada’s Anderson Peters, who did a best of 82.20m. These were the only two competitors who could have troubled the Indian as the rest of the field failed to get past the 80m mark.
 
 Neeraj fouled his second attempt but came up with three amazing throw on his third, fourth and fifth throws which measured 84.78m, 86.47m and 83.48m.
 
 “I was expecting to do my personal best, which came at the World U-20 Championship in Bygdoszcz, Hungary, but I missed it by one centimetre. I went all out for the record on my last chance and due to that I got slightly unbalanced and fell over,” Neeraj told reporters after taking a victory lap around the packed stadium. The tinge of disappointment soon gave way to optimism. “But I have lot of competitions ahead and I’ll try to do better in those meets,” he added.
 
 The youngster, who had crashed out in the preliminary round of World Athletics, said he felt motivated by the achievement of Kashinath Nayak, who won a bronze in 2010 Games. “I feel happy and proud. I wanted to win a gold. At the 2010 Games in Delhi, Kashinath Nayak had won the bronze. But today I almost won with my first throw and so I’m very happy. I thank all my supporters and well wishers,” he said.
 
 About the competition, Chopra said though world champion Julius Yego missed the final, the field had quality. “The competition was good. But I had set myself a target and I had to live up to that. I was trying to get the crowd behind me at the top of my run up and it worked to an extent,” he said.
 
 
 Neeraj Chopra’s coach, the legendary German Uwe Hohn, the only athlete to throw the javelin to 100m or more, said there was no limit to how far the Indian could throw. “There is no limit on him on how much he can throw. Neeraj has not reached that level but I hope in two years’ time he can compete on the same level and also win some medals. We can do a little better in two year’s time to help him to improve and definitely he will be able do well,” Hohn said when asked whether Chopra would also get near the magical mark.
 
 “Neeraj needs to be a bit more relaxed, to improve his timing to get a few more metres on his throw. Also, he is a little bit early with his throw. So we have to work on it in the coming months.”
 
 Comparing the facilities in Australia and India, Hohn said Indian officials should try to give the best of facilities to the elite athletes. “The facilities and equipment are not good for top athletes. If you compare what is there in Patiala and what is here, there is a big difference,” Hohn said.
 
 
 In the men’s 1500m, Jinson Johnson battled a stiff challenge from the Kenyans and took fifth place with a new national record time of 3:37.86s. He broke Bahadur Prasad’s time of 3:38.00 set in 1995 in Chennai.
 
 
