
 NEW DELHI: The Buddhists' spiritual head, the Dalai Lama, said today he's glad Prime Minister   is going to meet China's President   later this week.
 
 That's because the Dalai Lama - whom China considers and enemy - believes neighbours should learn to have good relations with each other.
 
 "I think it is really good that they are meeting. They have to live side-by-side, so it is better to live as a family," said the Dalai Lama to ANI news agency, about the Xi-Modi meet which will be the first between the two leaders since the   border standoff.
 
 Modi and Xi will hold their first major "informal summit" in the picturesque Wuhan city of central China on April 27 and 28. The decision was made public yesterday after talks between visiting foreign minister Sushma Swaraj and her Chinese counterpart Wang Yi.
 
  
  
 
 Wang described the forthcoming Modi-Xi meeting as a "new starting point" in the relationship. He also referred to the importance of supporting the World Trade Organization mechanism, a hint at US President Donald Trump's trade actions which China regards as a violation.
 
 The engagement will also mean back-to-back visits for Modi to China as he is scheduled to travel to the country again in June for the SCO (
 ) summit. 
 
 The 73-day Doklam standoff over China's attempt to build a road close to India's narrow Chicken Neck area connecting northeastern states ended in August last year after Chinese troops stopped the road construction at Doklam in Sikkim Section, though Beijing never officially acknowledged it. The area of the stand-off is also claimed by 
 .
 
 
 
 
 Meanwhile, the Dalai Lama said yesterday that   can remain in China, only if Beijing recognises and respects the region's distinct culture and autonomy.
 
 "Historically and culturally, Tibet has been independent. China took control of Tibet in 1950 in what it called a 'peaceful liberation'. So, as long as the Constitution of China recognises our culture and Tibetan autonomous region's special history, it (Tibet) can remain there," said the Tibetan spiritual leader during a lecture on 'Role of Ethics and Culture in Promoting Global Peace and Harmony' in New Delhi
 
