PATNA: Patna University (PU) is likely to have at least six new residential and academic complexes this year. A proposal to this effect was approved by the   syndicate on Saturday.

 The syndicate, at its meeting held here under the chairmanship of vice-chancellor Rash Bihari Prasad Singh, approved proposals worth Rs14.24 crore to be submitted to the UGC soon for its financial assistance. The UGC had earlier asked PU to submit proposals for construction of new buildings by this month-end.
 
 The university has proposed to construct a G+4 complex having 24 flats for Grade IV staff at an estimated cost of 2.15 crore near G D S Girls’ Hostel at Krishna Kunj, 20 quarters for Grade III staff at Saidpur complex at an estimated cost of Rs6 crore, and expand the present guesthouse to a L-shaped G+4 complex providing 20 additional rooms at an estimated cost of Rs2.18 crore.
 
 The syndicate also approved the PU’s proposal for construction of an examination hall above the existing one at Patna College for vocational and postgraduation courses at an estimated cost of Rs1.37 crore. The answer books of postgraduation examinations would be evaluated in this proposed hall instead of Wheeler Senate House, said PU registrar Rabindra Kumar.
 
 The proposals for renovation of Patna College gymnasium and extension of SAP building at Darbhanga House at an estimated cost of Rs1.74 crore and Rs90 lakh respectively.
 
 The syndicate also approved the PU academic council’s resolution for awarding medals of pure gold to the PG toppers from the next academic session (2018-19). The university has already decided to award pure gold medals in the name of donors who donate at least Rs4 lakh for the purpose.
 
 PU will notify the details of elections to the university students’ union on January 31. The draft electoral roll will be published on February 3 and the final electoral roll on February 5. The candidates aspiring to contest elections for various offices will file nomination papers on February 7 and 8 and the final list of contestants after withdrawal of nominations is to be published on February 10. The polling will be held on February 17 followed by counting of votes and declaration of results.
 
 
