By: 
 

 On February 10, 1969   stepped into C N Annadurai’s large shoes as chief minister. "I have heard that he is a confrontationist," Prime Minister Indira Gandhi had remarked then. But Karunanidhi didn’t let his   credentials stanch his ambitions for the DMK.
 
  
  
 
 Hedging his bets carefully, he became the first chief minister to advocate bank nationalisation in 1969. It was a clever move. The Congress’ old guard was opposed to the idea and Indira Gandhi, who was yet to consolidate her position, was not too sure about such a gamble. But, Karunanidhi had sensed that Gandhi would emerge victorious in the intra-Congress fight for power and that a regional   pronouncing such a national policy was strategic. As Karunanidhi himself recalled later in 1994, the DMK with its feet firmly in Tamil Nadu, "had extended its hands nationally." On July 19, 1969, Indira Gandhi announced bank nationalisation. She was an ally of the same "confrontationist" Karunanidhi.
 
 
  
  Karunanidhi with Indira Gandhi in 1971
 
 This was Karunanidhi, a regional leader who made himself indispensable to India’s national political trajectory from the late 1960s until recently. Be it helping Indira Gandhi to consolidate power, facilitating national alliances or extending support to the NDA and the UPA, his hands were seen in nationally momentous occasions. 
 
 To weaken Kamaraj’s potently strong Congress in Tamil Nadu, Karunanidhi helped build the breakaway Congress faction led by Indira Gandhi. He stood by Gandhi when she chose to field her own presidential candidate in 1969 against the official candidate. His talks with the chief ministers of Punjab and West Bengal led to a consensus and Karunanidhi made the official announcement on V V Giri’s candidacy in Madras.
 
 
  
  M Karunanidhi with leaders of National Front ahead of the Lok Sabha elections in 1989
 
 After the DMK’s victory in the 1971 elections, Karunanidhi articulating the party’s goals for stronger states, on 29 March 1971, said "I believe no one in India would wish to create a Mujibur Rahman in each state." Meanwhile, he joined hands with the opposition and addressed a social justice conference in 1973 in the north. This, he records, was resented in Delhi.
 
 The split in the DMK by MGR in 1972 was a major political setback. But the worst was yet to come. During Emergency (1975), the DMK government was dismissed, more than four hundred DMK cadres were interned and DMK leaders feared that the party would be banned. Among the arrested was Karunanidhi’s son M K Stalin and nephew Murasoli Maran.
 
 Karunanidhi’s opposition to Emergency built bridges to Jayaprakash Narayan. In the post-Emergency period, he would host leaders from the north in Delhi – a meeting that led to the birth of Janata Party that felled Indira Gandhi in 1977. The Janata experiment, however, turned out to be a huge disappointment. The DMK later joined hands with the Congress in 1980, only to part ways in 1983 over the Sri Lankan Tamils issue.
 
  
  M Karunanidhi with Sonia Gandhi and Manmohan Singh during a meeting of UPA allies in 2010
 
 Karunanidhi’s relationship with the opposition was such that he could bring N T Rama Rao and A B Vajpayee under the banner of the Tamil Eelam Supporters Organisation (TESO) in Madurai in May 1985, to show solidarity with the Sri Lankan Tamils. 
 
 When V P Singh broke company with Rajiv Gandhi, Karunanidhi rallied behind Singh, playing a substantial role in the formation of the National Front. The implementation of the Mandal Commission, the return of the Indian Peacekeeping Forces and the constitution of the Cauvery Tribunal should all be credited to Karunanidhi’s friendship with Singh.
 
 After Singh’s exit, Karunanidhi was instrumental in the choice of Deve Gowda and I K Gujral as prime ministers. In 1999, he propped up the National Democratic Alliance government led by the BJP’s Atal Bihari Vajpayee. The   helped in TN’s development, but he deftly ended the relationship in 2004 sensing it as a political liability. Soon he was one of the driving forces behind the United Progressive Alliance led by Sonia Gandhi. In return Sonia Gandhi treated Karunanidhi as their alliance’s Bhishma, and at one-point Tamil Nadu had the highest contingent of ministers. But, in March 2013 the DMK pulled out of the UPA government.
 
 It is amazing that Karunanidhi, a high school dropout with no knowledge of Hindi, had often taken centre stage nationally and moved with ease with northern leaders. But then he himself is no ordinary leader. A stage artist, script writer, speaker, organiser, poet, administrator and journalist — Karunanidhi is an extraordinarily endowed leader. And at 94 he stills remains one. 
 
 (The writer is the deputy head of the UN Assistance Mission in Somalia’s Hirshabelle office)
 
 
