NEW DELHI: The fake   lab that was busted in northwest Delhi’s Mahendra Park had delivered around 30,000 fake reports to patients across India in less than a year. The brothers who ran it were planning to expand their business by renting a room in UP. But before they could implement these plans, they were caught by cops. 

 A   made by a girl the accused brothers — Ajay and Sanjay Yadav — had hired to collect samples from courier boys in their absence, blew their cover.
 
  
 A senior police officer said that they got a call from the girl stating that a man, who claimed to be a  , took her employer Sanjay with him. She said that the official had promised to get Sanjay back in two hours, but even after six hours “there was no trace of Sanjay”. 
 
 DCP (northwest) Aslam Khan said that when officers tried to contact Sanjay, his phone was found switched off. A police team led by SHO (Mahendra Park) Virender Kadyan went to the path lab and noticed its “unhygienic condition”. When questioned about the testing machines, the girl could not provide an answer and said that she was employed just four days ago. 
 
 Within a few minutes Ajay arrived at the lab. However, even he could not give a satisfactory answer about the machines. Later, he told police about the fake lab he was running along with his brother. 
 
 Meanwhile, cops contacted CBI officials who denied sending anyone to the path lab. When Sanjay’s phone was tracked, his last location was found to be at a bank in outer Delhi from where he had withdrawn money using a bearer cheque. CCTV footage of the bank was scanned and he was identified. A couple of hours later he was arrested.
 
 Ajay was apparently the mastermind behind the racket. He had learnt about the process and the rates while working as an assistant at various labs in UP from 2015 to March 2017.
 
 Sanjay told police that Ajay earned over Rs 10 lakh a month, but paid him just Rs 15,000. Upset with this, Sanjay confided in one of his friends. They then roped in another person and planned the fake CBI visit. They had planned to pressure Ajay to increase Sanjay’s salary, threatening to expose the fake path lab. 
 
 
