PATNA:   is the fifth most polluted city in the world in terms of PM 2.5 concentration, according to a global air pollution datebase released by the World Health Organisation (WHO).

 PM 2.5 is the level of ultra-fine particles of less than 2.5 microns which invade human lungs and cause serious health problems, including cancer.
 
 Patna’s PM 2.5 concentration was recorded at 144 micrograms per cubic metre, while the scenario in Gaya was worse with its PM 2.5 concentration being 149 per cubic metre. Gaya has been declared the fourth most polluted city of the world.
 
 Kanpur tops the global list of most polluted cities with PM 2.5 concentration of 173 micrograms per cubic metre, followed by Faridabad (172), and Varanasi (151). Delhi is sixth on the list.
 
 The air quality in Patna has deteriorated rapidly over the past few years. The city occupied 48th position among 1,600 cities in the WHO’s database on urban outdoor air pollution released in 2014. It was declared the second most polluted country in India after New Delhi in the 2014 report.
 
 The air pollution database released by the WHO in 2016 had declared Patna as the sixth most polluted city in the world.
 
 Suspended road dust particles, vehicular emission and smoke billowing out of brick kilns have been linked to higher level of respiratory suspended particulate matter (PM 10) in Patna. The WHO in the month of October 2013 classified outdoor air pollution as carcinogenic (cancer-causing agents).
 
 While admitting air pollution in Gaya and Patna, Bihar State Pollution Control Board (BSPCB) chairman Dr Ashok Kumar Ghosh, however, challenged the WHO report. “How can a city be called polluted on the basis of the data related to just one parameter (PM 2.5)? How can you leave out air pollutants such as carbon monoxide, ozone and petrol emission, among others?” Ghosh asked.
 
 Talking about the steps initiated by the BSPCB to curb air pollution, Ghosh said on Wednesday they were working along with the state forest department to carry out plantation along the banks of Ganga, where alluvial topsoil is exposed due to meandering of the river towards the north, causing dust pollution in Patna.
 
 “We are also working along with the transport department to ensure stringent vehicle pollution checks through PUC (pollution under control) testing centres at petrol pumps. An estimated 80% brick kilns have adopted green technology, which has lower levels of emissions,” Ghosh said.
 
 The Bihar State Disaster Management Authority has also conducted an assessment of Patna’s air quality across 10 microenvironments using a state-of-the-art mobile online laboratory in association with scientists from Indian Institute of Tropical Management (IITM), Pune.
 
 According to Dr Subhash C Jha of the PMCH’s TB and Chest department, patients suffering from chronic obstructive pulmonary diseases (COPD) and respiratory infections have a high chance of turning ICU cases. “We often advise COPD patients to move to locations that have lower levels of air pollutants,” he said. 
 
 Dr Jha said there had been an increase in the incidence of tonsillitis, allergic pharyngitis and bronchitis. “If the pollutants enter the lungs, there is an increase in the incidence of bronchiolitis, pneumonia and lung cancer,” he said. 
 
 
