Trichy: Should students be prohibited from using mobile phones on college campus? The ubiquitous communication device and its smart phone version continue to evoke conflicting opinions from college administrations to this day. While some colleges feel that banning it would be counterproductive, others offer multiple excuses to keep it away from the students. 

 Colleges which oppose use of mobile phones feel that a ban would considerably curb the freedom of the students. They also point out that in this digital era, smartphones help students in multiple ways. On the other hand, a few institutions are even of the opinion that that it is their responsibility to make sure that students stay away from smartphones “for the safety of women college-goers”. They also argue that reading and listening have taken a back seat among the students who are glued to their electronic devices most of the time. 
 
 During a parent-teacher meet held at St Joseph’s College on Saturday, principal F Andrew announced that smartphones would be prohibited within the campus during college hours. The announcement understandably evoked a warm response from many parents present there. The principal later went on to explain how a smartphone could spoil college-goers.
 
 There were logical reasons behind prohibiting smartphones in colleges, according to Andrew. Most of the students had stopped visiting the college library ever since smartphones became prevalent. “This is happening despite the college allocating five marks in internals for those who spend certain hours in the library. Also, the students have stopped taking notes as they only click photos of what is being written on the black board or power point presentations,” Andrew told TOI. He added that many male students, in the name of selfies, used to take photos of female students in the college without their knowledge. Though basic model mobile phones (non-smartphones) could be used by the students at St Joseph’s College, if they were found carrying smartphones, the devices would be confiscated. 
 
 On the other hand, principal of National College, Trichy, R Sundararaman, stated that their college didn’t impose any restrictions on use of mobile phones during college hours. “We don’t believe in banning it, but if mobiles are used in classes or for any wrong purpose, we will take action against the students,” he asserted.Prohibiting anything was not a solution, but regulating it would be a more practical step, claimed Jamal Mohamed College principal S Ismail Mohideen. “In this day and age, it wouldn’t be practically possible to not allow students to use smartphones. If the freedom of the college-goers is restricted to such an extent, it would only have a negative impact. In our college, we only have guidelines on when and where students should be using mobile phones.
 
 
