NEW DELHI: In the wake of public outrage over the Kathua rape-and-murder case where the victim was a minor, the Cabinet is likely to consider an ordinance on Saturday to amend the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act to provide for the death penalty for the rape of children below the age of 12. 

 
 The ordinance is being initiated to enforce the amendment immediately before a bill is introduced and passed by Parliament. After the case of the eightyear-old Kathua victim, other instances, such as in Surat where a nine-year-old, apparently a victim of traffickers, was raped and killed, have added urgency to the government’s actions. 
 
 Existing provisions of the POCSO Act provide for life imprisonment, though after the   case in 2012 the Centre had introduced the death penalty in cases where a woman either dies or is left in a vegetative state after rape. 
 
 Recently, four states passed laws making the rape of a minor punishable by death. The Cabinet meet follows the Centre informing the   on Friday that it proposed to amend POCSO to provide for the death penalty for aggravated sexual assaults on children below 12.
 
 Responding to a PIL filed by advocate Alakh Alok Srivastava seeking deterrent punishment to curb the growing incidents of sexual assaults on minor girls, additional solicitor general P S Narasimha handed over to the SC bench of Chief Justice   and Justices A M Khanwilkar and D Y Chandrachud a letter from the ministry of women and child development promising to amend the POCSO Act. 
 
 The bench posted the matter for further hearing on April 27. Quoting a TOI report on the sexual assault of an eightmonth-old girl allegedly by her 28-year-old cousin in a west Delhi locality on January 29, the PIL petitioner said the incident was so brutal that the baby had to undergo a three-hour surgery. He argued that the SC, in its 2016 judgment in   case, had suggested to the Centre to consider harsher punishment in cases involving children below 10 years of age. 
 
 The petitioner quoted   statistics to inform the court that 8,904 cases of sexual offences against children were reported in 2014 under the POCSO Act, of which 7,970 cases were still pending, completely belying the law’s objective to provide speedy trial in such cases. 
 
 Quoting a Delhi police report of May 2016, Srivastava told the SC that 5,217 cases were registered in the capital between 2012 and 2015 under the POCSO Act. “Out of this, investigation is still pending for more than a year in 251 cases, for two years in 90 cases and for more than three years in 14 such cases. Such inordinate delay in the completion of investigation and the consequent incessant delay in completion of trial are defeating the very purpose of the POCSO Act,” he complained. 
 
 Srivastava said the right to speedy trial was available not only to the accused but also to the sexually assaulted children and their families. “Speedy completion of trial reduces the psychological suffering of rape survivors,” he said. There are 597 POCSO courts across the country, almost one in every district, to ensure that the trials are completed within a year from the registration of the FIR. The increase in pendency indicated delays in trial.
 
