MUMBAI:   received by a   (technically referred to as a ‘premise’ society) will not be taxable in its hands, according to a recent   order.

 While the order pertains to non-residential societies, experts say it will also help residential societies. “Both are   and the principles of taxation are similar, although some of the rules would be different,” says Anil Harish, partner, DM Harish & Co, alaw firm.
 
  
 As transfer fees, especially in the business districts or tony residential pockets of Mumbai, run into lakhs, the order to exclude it from income-tax will bring huge relief. Transfer fees, according to real estate agents, typically vary between 1% and 5% of the value of the property transferred and the fees are generally borne jointly by the seller and the buyer (incoming member).
 
 The order puts an end to another contentious issue: the portion of the   paid by the buyer (who is not a member of the society as on the date of payment) cannot be taxed.
 
 In the  , the lead case was that of Venkatesh Premises. Various Nariman Point non-residential societies, such as Mittal Chambers, Mittal Towers, Tulsiani Chambers, Bajaj Bhavan, Dalamal Towers, and Embassy Centre, were the other parties.
 
 “The order which will help save on I-T means a society will have more funds for upkeep and repairs,” said a managing committee member of a Nariman Point society.
 
 In arriving at its decision, the SC upheld the ‘principle of mutuality’, which implies that no one can make a profit from themselves. No income arises when a common group of persons (say, members of a cooperative society) contribute to and participate in a common fund which is utilized for the benefit of the society and its members. Transfer fees are typically credited to a fund which is used for the welfare of the society and its members.
 
 The Maharashtra Cooperative Societies Act (MSCA) prescribes limits about payments to be made by members of only a cooperative housing society (CHS), which is a residential society. Thus, I-T authorities have often sought to tax transfer fee in excess of Rs 25,000 (the prescribed limit) received by a CHS, stating that an element of profit is involved. I-T tribunals, in a few cases, have struck down such demands.
 
 In the backdrop of the SC ruling, Harish explains: “Once a society is held to be a mutual association, the amounts it receives should be treated as exempt from tax even though they may be in excess of the amount permitted under another law.”
 
 He added: “If there is a violation by a CHS of regulations under the MSCA, a member may challenge that. However, whether an amount received by a CHS is within the limit or in excess of the limit is not relevant for the purpose of taxation.” For instance, it may be recalled that a buyer had lodged a complaint against Grand Paradi housing society, situated in Malabar Hill, as Rs 33.6 lakh were demanded from him as transfer fee. The matter was later settled between him and the society’s managing committee.
 
 Regarding other payments made by members, such as nonoccupancy charges, the SC held that these receipts are used for mutual benefit towards maintenance of the premises and provision of common amenities. Thus the principle of mutuality was applicable and such receipts cannot be taxed in the hands of a society.
 
