THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Reiterating the government’s commitment in executing the proposed light metro projects for Thiruvananthapuram and Kozhikode, chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan told the assembly on Friday that the lone hurdle that remains was an approval from the central government.

 “Going ahead with the project without the Centre’s prior approval may end up in the state bearing an additional financial liability of Rs 1,278 crore (the Centre’s share). With its current financial position, the state cannot take such a risk,” he said while responding to an adjournment motion notice moved by Congress MLA K Muraleedharan.
 
 
 However, the opposition alleged that there was a deliberate move to avoid the   ( ) and ‘Metroman’ E  , at the behest of some IAS officers, and staged a walkout. Opposition leader   told the assembly before walking out that people were already suspicious of the move to float global tenders “intended to facilitate corruption”.
 
 On the accusation levelled by the opposition that the CM insulted Sreedharan by denying him an appointment to discuss the project, Vijayan said the only disagreement government had with Sreedharan was on his demand to begin the preparatory works even before obtaining the central government’s approval. The government cannot show the haste which Sreedharan demands, he said.
 
 “The government is fully aware of his expertise and wasn’t disrespectful to him in any manner. It is true that he didn’t get an appointment. But that might have been due to some busy schedule on my side, and it doesn’t mean that the doors are closed forever. The meeting can still take place, if he wishes,” the CM said.
 
 However, there’s no need for anyone to say that the project will be a non-starter, the CM said. “The DMRC had submitted the revised project document in November 2017 (after the Centre notified the new metro policy), and revised it again in December. The committee headed by the finance principal secretary is examining the details, including the state’s financial liability. Once it’s done and approved by the state government, it will be sent for the Centre’s approval,” he said.
 
 Earlier, Muraleedharan said some officials were misleading the government on the project’s implementation. “Politicians are held in scorn by some IAS officers, who think they know better. They had raised such objections against   as well. Now, who will come in place of DMRC? People will not have the trust they had in DMRC in any other company,” he asserted.
 
