MANALI: Hundreds of skiers from across the country are getting ready to visit Manali to learn basic and advanced skiing techniques on Solang ski slopes. The catch is that there is no snow there. 

 Atal Bihari Vajpayee Institute of Mountaineering and Allied Sports (ABVIMAS), the largest adventure sports institute in the country, is starting skiing courses from January 11. But with few chances of snowfall anytime soon, the institute plans to postpone course dates.
 
 Earlier, the skiing competition during the Manali Winter Carnival had to be cancelled and now, skiing enthusiasts are desperately waiting for heavy snowfall. Hundreds of people come to learn skiing form ABVIMAS and local skiers. Thousands of tourists also try their hand on skiing, but vagaries of the weather have dampened their enthusiasm.
 
 Nanak Chand, a skiing, mountaineering and rescue instructor with ABVIMAS, who is in-charge of the skiing courses, said courses will start from January 11, subject to snowfall. “A total of 60 participants have applied for the courses. Those from outside   are being informed about change in schedule on the phone. We shall wait for snowfall till January 8. Otherwise, this batch will be adjusted with the next one starting from January 27,” he said.
 
 Slopes of Manali used to get good snowfall in November and December and the snow used to last for months. But now, change in weather pattern is weighing heavy on skiers. Good spells of snowfall come only after January. There was moderate snowfall twice this season but the snow lasted only a few days.
 
 Temperature is below freezing point, which is suitable for skiing. According to local skiers, despite its popularity, Solang skiing slope does not have a snow making machine, which would have eliminated dependance on the weather. 
 
 ABVIMAS director Captain   said the institute also imparts training on skiing techniques to help skiers participate in skiing competitions and national and international championships. “Skiers from the country have left to take part in the   championship. I am also with the team. They will have to get FIS points in races to be able to qualify for Olympics,” he said.
 
