NEW DELHI: Taking note of “cobweb” and “settled dust” on a ceiling fan, a Delhi court censured the police for a “deliberate attempt” to make the death of a 23-year-old manager of a luxury hotel look like a suicide.

 
  Sumedh Kumar Sethi asked his order to be sent to Delhi police commissioner with a direction to conduct an inquiry into to the “alleged lapses on part of the police officials” involved in the case and take action if any deliberate attempt to “scuttle the probe” was found. 
 
 
  
 
 “It is inconceivable that if a person weighing about 80kg would have hung himself from the fan using a cloth, then the dust settled on the fan, and even the fragile  , would remain completely undisturbed,” the court observed in a February 19 order. The crime branch, meanwhile, registered an FIR under the charge of   on February 23 after the mother of the victim,  , approached the court. 
 
 In its order, the court had said that despite Duggal being found dead in such mysterious circumstances, the police had refused to register an FIR. “Despite serious allegations being levelled by parents of the deceased, it seems that a deliberate attempt is being made right from the beginning to take the probe in this matter in the direction of a suicide,” it said. 
 
 The mother, Anu, through her counsel P K Dey, placed on record some photos clicked on the day of the incident by Arnav’s father, Alok. According to a statement given by the father of Arnav’s friend — who was with him at the time of the incident — he sold the fan in question as scrap as it was bent. “The photographs filed by the complainant today show that the fan was present in the room at the time of the incident, and even thereafter, and was completely intact. There were no signs of the fan being bent (sic),” the judge said. 
 
 The court observed that no photograph of the fan was there in the police file, which it said, showed that the probe was not being conducted in an impartial manner. As a result, the police’s theory stood “blown away” by merely looking at the condition of the fan from which the deceased allegedly hanged himself, it said. The court noted that the fan “surprisingly” appeared to be “completely intact” and dusty" in the photos taken on the day of incident and filed by the mother.
 
 Another photograph showed red marks on the back of the deceased but this too, the court said, didn’t appear in the police file.
 
 Arnav, a resident of West Patel Nagar, left home on June 12 after informing his parents that he would be late. His mother said she tried his number around midnight, but found it switched off. When he didn’t return the next morning, she started calling his friends when she received a call from Dwarka police.
 
 The court clarified that it was not expressing any definitive opinion on the conduct of the IO as of now but directed that the investigation be transferred immediately from inspector Sunil Jain “to some other responsible and senior officer”.
 
 
