If the Supreme Court order on Cauvery water sharing is the end of the age-old dispute, Tamil Nadu farmers have to learn to live happily with lesser water. What’s encouraging, say experts, is it’s possible provided Karnataka releases the 177.25tmcft water as fixed by the apex court. With better water management practices and cropping methods, farmers can manage a good yield, Tamil Nadu farmers should opt for less water-intensive crops and drought-resistant paddy varieties. At the same time, the government should take steps to tap existing water resources in a judicious manner, say experts.

 “Now we have to readjust our irrigation and cropping methods. TN receives 950mm to 1000mm rainfall, the second largest state to receive this much rainfall during northeast monsoon. About 30% of this drains into sea. We can conserve this water and ensure one crop in all districts,’’ says Tamil Nadu Agricultural University vice-chancellor K Ramasamy.
 
 He suggests that there are irrigation techniques to conserve water. For instance, through alternate wetting and drying method (AWD), 30% of water can be conserved without any yield reduction. A plastic or bamboo pipe of 40cm length and 15cm diameter with drilled holes is sunk into the rice field partially. When the water level inside the pipe falls, it is refilled. This way, farmers can save 5,000 litres of water for each kg of rice produced. TNAU scientists say this method is widely followed in the Philippines and Vietnam.
 
 V Saraswathi, 48, of Thirumangalam near Lalgudi in Trichy district, a progressive farmer cultivating on a 4.5-acre land for the past 25 years, follows wet and dry method. “This method gives a good yield and reduces input costs by way of reduced electricity consumption for pumping water,’’ she says.
 
 Progressive farmers also suggest borewells instead of drawing directly from irrigation channels for lesser water utilisation.
 
 To mitigate water scarcity, drought-resistant varieties can be cultivated. “There are less water-intensive, location-specific varieties like Anna (R) 4 for Thanjavur, Co 51, MDU 5 - a short duration fine grain variety - and modified CR 1009, which are both drought and flood tolerant,’’ says Ramasamy. For Nagapattinam, where sea water incursion has wreaked havoc with agriculture, scientists have developed paddy varieties that grow in saline water. Agricultural experts say the cropping pattern can be reworked. “Right now, we go for 100 to 180 days duration paddy crops, which require 14 to 20 wettings. But millets need six wettings only,’’ said an agricultural scientist. “But there is resistance from farmers as well as government authorities when we suggest alternative crops as Cauvery has now become a politically-surcharged issue,” he said.
 
 Some radical changes should be brought about in the cropping pattern like going for just samba cultivation in the October–January season. During kuruvai season, farmers can opt for cereals and pulses. “Water is no longer released from Mettur reservoir for kuruvai as per the customary schedule on June 12. Instead of waiting for Mettur water release, farmers can go for millets which require less water,” the scientist said.
 
 On the part of the government, there should be an additional thrust on conserving water bodies. A PWD official said the ‘kudimaramathu’ drive initiated by the government was a good start. “We expect large-scale funding from NABARD for conservation of water bodies. We will continuously carry out work to protect our water bodies,” said the officer.
 
 
