SURAT: Over 300 scholars of philosophy were of the view that the philosophies of different religions in Asia will have to come together to celebrate their creative contributions in advancing the philosophical wisdom of the world. The scholars had come from across India and 14 countries of Asia to participate in the two-day   which concluded in Surat on Thursday.

 They debated on philosophy in theory and practice, philosophy of living with nature, discovering the world within and philosophy of happiness in the first such conference to be held in Gujarat. 
 
 Human existence comprises of spiritual, rational and emotional modes which find their expression in ethical, religious, aesthetic, social and political forms of living. Though these modes and forms of living seem to be varied and different, they together form a collective and holistic experience for an individual. 
 
 This difference helps us in understanding the uniqueness of a particular form of life and the holistic perspective facilitates deciphering of a comprehensive meaning about human existence. 
 
 Most of Asian philosophies have reflected on this holistic perspective of human existence. They may differ in viewpoint as to what this holistic perspective comprises of, but all philosophies of Asia lead to the aggregate or beyond the aggregate of particulars, the scholars said. 
 
 Local secretary of Asia Philosophical Conference and   said, “Experts from 14 different countries, including Poland, Russia and the US, presented 108 papers at the conference. The issue of focusing more on individual and our forgetting the holistic approach in today’s world was discussed. It was felt that there was need to celebrate such a wholesome approach for betterment of one’s living.” 
 
 The   was organized by   which has been established by Vitrag Vignan Charitable Research Foundation and Mahavideh Teerth Dham in collaboration with the Indian Council of Philosophical Research, New Delhi. 
 
 The APC would be followed by the 92nd session of the Indian Philosophical Congress to be held in Surat from January 5th to 7th. It is expected about 225 papers would be presented then. 
 
 
