KARWAR:  , the Bengaluru-based businessman accused of killing his techie-wife Akshata and burning her body in the forest, has a past steeped in gore and gang war. Kondli, who is from  , was the prime accused in the murder of underworld don Dileep Naik in the coastal town a decade ago. 

 Kondli and the other accused were acquitted by a court in that case for want of evidence. His arrest on Saturday by Bengaluru police has brought to the fore his involvement in the bloody gang wars of the early 2000s, when the Mumbai underworld got into the fray to control the port and surrounding areas of Karwar. The gang wars had resulted in the murder of then Congress   Vasant  . 
 
 The main accused in the MLA's murder was Dileep Naik, who was part of the Ashwin Naik gang in Mumbai. 
 
 Of the four sharpshooters who had killed Asnotikar in Karwar, three were killed in different encounters in Uttar Pradesh and Mumbai; one was arrested and is still lodged in Karwar jail. 
 
 Dileep Naik hailed from Karwar and had business interests in Karwar and Mumbai. After Asnotikar's murder, he fled to   and was later arrested. Two years later, he got bail on health grounds. 
 
 The simmering discontent between Dileep Naik and his rival gangs led to another round of gang war in Karwar and the name of Chandrakanth Kondli alias Chandru came up prominently in that case. A t that time, Kondli was working in a hotel in Karwar and in 2004, he and four others allegedly killed Naik at Cutinho Road in Karwar when the don had gone for his morning walk. Naik was attacked with rods and sharp weapons and was run over by a jeep, the prosecution had alleged. But Kondli and others were acquitted of all charges by the sessions court for want of evidence. 
 
 Since then, Kondli has been seen in the company of powerful politicians in the districts and is dreaded by local residents. Years later, he shifted base to Bengaluru and reportedly started a hotel business along with some politicians. However, he did not give up the criminal links from his past, sources said, and was often used by his acquaintances to terrorise their rivals and settle money and real estate disputes. 
 
 
