BHUBANESWAR: A group of men, waving BJP flags, on Saturday barged into the official residence of Naveen Patnaik’s private secretary V K  , accusing him of meddling in politics.

 The protesters, around 20 in number, parked their bikes, hurled cow dung at the bureaucrat’s house at VIR 7 in Unit VI area of the city, located near the elite Bhubaneswar Club. They then forced open the main gate, allegedly damaged flower pots and manhandled a caretaker, the latter alleged.
 
 Pandian, considered to be Naveen’s most trusted officer, was not at home when the incident took place around 10.30 am, but his wife Sujata K Pandian, an IAS officer posted as director  , and their two children were in the house, police sources said.
 
 Naveen’s private secretary has been in the eye of the storm over the past year with the BJP, and even some BJD leaders, including suspended MP Baijayant Panda, accusing Pandian of misusing his official position and getting involved in the BJD’s affairs. The 2000-batch officer has been Naveen’s private secretary since 2011.
 
 Naveen, who was in Puri to attend a religious event at Govardhan Mutt, condemned the incident. “It is shocking (the vandalism) and that too from a national party,” the chief minister told reporters.
 
 Asserting that such lawlessness will not be tolerated, police commissioner Y B Khurania said four of the protesters have been arrested. “Stringent action will be taken against the perpetrators,” Khurania said.
 
 The BJP justified its protest by terming it democratic while the BJD, the Congress and the bureaucrats condemned the attack as barbaric. The Pandian couple could not be reached for comments.
 
 Moments after the incident, BJP state vice-president Sameer   said the party’s youth wing staged a democratic protest because Pandian has been behaving like the super chief minister. “The BJP will continue its protest against officers drawing salary from the public exchequer but working for a political party,” Mohanty said.
 
 The BJP also submitted a memorandum to chief electoral officer   seeking the removal of the Pandian couple, IPS officer D S Kuttey, posted as officer on special duty in the CM’s office, and Naveen’s joint secretary Gopapandhu Das from duty for misusing their official position to favour the BJD in the forthcoming Bijepur bypoll scheduled on February 24.
 
 BJD spokesperson Pratap Keshari Deb condemned the attack and said the BJP’s action exposes the party’s growing intolerance and the kind of politics it believes in.
 
 “Political differences should be countered politically. But attacking an officer’s house in such a manner is barbaric and unacceptable. The attack followed by memorandum to the chief electoral officer is a well-crafted conspiracy by the BJP to derail the bypoll process,” Deb said.
 
 Congress veteran and leader of opposition  , the   and the Odisha Administrative Officers Association also condemned the attack. BJD supporters took out a rally in Bhubaneswar in protest against the attack on Pandian’s house.
 
 Panda, who in the past has directed his ire at Pandian’s alleged role in BJD’s internal matters, decried the incident but also raised question about the officer’s conduct.
 
 “I disagree with barging into any1’s home to protest. But Pandian arranged for some ppl to throw stones, bricks & eggs at me & protectd them (no arrests for 4 months until assembly qstn). Thr are serious allegations of corruption & patronage of crooks & goons, which he must answr!”, Panda tweeted.
 
 
  
 
