CHANDIGARH: The deputy mayor of Karnal, on Friday, accused   chief minister   of shielding people allegedly involved in abetting the September 2017 suicide of his younger brother. 

 Deputy mayor Manoj   alleged that the chief minister gave assurances to him while visiting his house, but no action had been taken against cops and locals, including some   leaders, who pushed his brother,  , to commit suicide. He also accused police officials of framing him and his family members in a false case.
 
 Wadhwa said since he had contested the assembly elections on an INLD ticket in October 2014, BJP leaders linked to chief minister   had been targeting him and his family. BJP leaders of Karnal termed the allegations as "dirty politics".
 
 Bharat ended his life on September 14, 2017, by jumping into a canal. The deputy mayor claimed that Bharat did this after a case was registered against members of the family, after their accountant was caught with alleged illegal cash of Rs 16.42 lakh. He said they had later complained to the Karnal superintendent of police (SP) that the police seized Rs 70 lakh, not Rs 16.42 lakh and the remaining amount had been siphoned off by the cops. 
 
 After this, the SP placed three cops, including an inspector, under suspension. The Wadhwas have also accused supervising police officers of harassment.
 
 Manoj alleged that police had started harassing his family members after the complaint, and this forced his brother to commit suicide. "Initially, we were not cremating his body. Cops had promised to lodge an FIR against all those we had been named in the complaint. Even chief minister Khattar, who visited us twice, including on   this year, assured action. There is no action against accused so far. It is clear that the chief minister is shielding them all. All this has been done because I contested against Khattar in the assembly elections," Wadhwa said.
 
 Karnala district BJP chief Jagmohan Anand dismissed the allegations levelled by Wadhwa. "He is indluging in dirty politics. He has to contest the Karnal municipal corporation polls soon. The chief minister visited him twice, but that was out of courtesy. In our community, visiting a grief-stricken family on Holi is said to be the best goodwill gesture. He had assured transparent investigations and adequate action. Now, Wadhwa is just trying to gain sympathy by targeting the chief minister," he said.
 
 
