On January 20, President   honoured 112 women with the inaugural First Ladies Awards. The awardees were from across the country, representing various fields. Instituted by the  , the awards honour women who are the first to set a milestone in their fields. The list also included two names from Gurgaon – Paralympic silver medalist   and kabaddi coach  .

  Deepa, who is the first and only Indian woman to win a Paralympic medal, says the award is quite special for her. "For me, it is like being etched in Indian history forever," she says, adding, "This award is a declaration that women can dream out of the box. They, too, can take the less travelled paths and succeed." 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  Sunil Dabas
 
 Sunil Dabas was honoured for being the first female kabaddi coach in the country. The Dronacharya Awardee has led the Indian women’s national team to seven international gold medals, including the 2012 World Cup.
 
 Deepa says that she was pleasantly surprised to see the organizers list a lot of her unknown 'firsts'. She tells us, "People already know about the Paralympic medal. But they also mentioned that I was the first physically challenged Indian to receive a rally driving license from the FMSCI, among other things." 
 
 Sunil adds, "Every award has its own charm and value. This is different because it recognizes the hardships we have had to face as women in our respective fields. When the President of India recognizes your effort, it means a lot. My journey from a small village in Jhajjar to the   has been full of struggles and many of these struggles are ongoing. The benefit of such an award is the recognition and respect you get. Ek time tha jab practice ke liye chhup kar jana padta tha. Ab log khud aa kar poochte hain ki apni ladkiyon ko training ke liye kahan bhejein."
 
  
  
 
 Both women hope that the award, and the recognition that comes with it, will benefit not just them, but young girls who are starting out their journeys in sports and other fields. Sunil, who heads the physical education department at Dronacharya Government College in Sector 8, says, "Even today, in a modern city like Gurgaon, girls are wary of going out of town for tournaments, because they don’t get permission from parents and elders. That needs to change. I hope the recognition from such honours does that." Deepa too is optimistic. She says, "Girls have no dearth of female role models. With this honour, they will know that there were women before them who were trendsetters and path-breakers in their fields and that is important."
 
 
  
  Deepa Malik and Sunil Dabas at the inaugural First Ladies award ceremony
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
