Niharika.Alva

 Bengaluru: Barely 48 hours after two labourers employed at a construction site in east Benglauru died of cholera, the makeshift, ramshackle tin tenements where they resided resembled a ghost town. Until Friday, about 1,500 labourers lived in the colony, but terrified over the deaths of their colleagues, the workers had vacated and fled.
 
 An eerie silence prevailed in one of the two makeshift colonies at the Sobha Developers construction site near Varthur Lake. When TOI visited the colony, only a few men were seen sprinkling bleaching powder. Only a part of the colony that houses technical workers remains occupied. These temporary units are built of superior quality material, but tenants here too railed at their living conditions. Sobha did not respond to calls and emails from TOI seeking its comments. 
 
 “There have been nine deaths over the past month in the colony,” Sunil Chauhan, a technical worker, alleged. “Forget about responding properly, the company doesn’t even acknowledge that there is a problem. Obviously people were scared, so they left.”
 
 Nearly two dozen labourers from the colony with symptoms of cholera were rushed to St John’s hospital on Friday. Two of them died the same day, while the others were discharged later. Several technical workers said they were also planning to leave. They were only waiting for their salaries. 
 
 They put the outbreak of cholera down to contaminated water and unhygienic living conditions. “The water comes in tankers and is filled into sumps and tanks,” a worker said. “People draw water from here for bathing, drinking and washing. The bathrooms are filthy. Until recently, the sewage from the bathrooms would overflow and enter a ditch close by. When it rained, the ditch would overflow and people would be walking around in ankle-deep sewage water.”
 
 The technical worker said the company deducts Rs 300 towards accommodation and maintenance from their salary of Rs 25,000 per month. “Yet, no cleaning is done,” Sunil is said. “Earlier this month, seven people from this colony died, but no one is talking about it. Nobody even knows where the bodies have gone. One senior engineer said that they had been sent to Delhi for autopsy tests.”
 
 Sunil’s brother Sudip, said: “Fans have not been working for over a year. We had complained about it, but nothing has been done. If they are deducting the money from our wages, then they should at least ensure that we are safe.”
 
 Narasimha Murthy, an advocate and human rights activist, said he knew of two more deaths in the colony prior to December 29. “One man died on December 2 due to a heart attack and another on December 26 due to breathing problems,” Murthy said. “We will prepare a report and file complaints with the labour department and the human rights commission.”
 
 However, a man who claimed he was from Sobha, but refused to disclose his name, said the man who died of a heart attack was not working on the site. “He was brought here by a contractor, and he was found medically unfit,” the official said. “He spent the night at the camp and had a heart attack the next morning.”
 
 
