The latest episode of   starts with   loses his calm as Pandit Ji says that Nehal and Vicky's twin kids will not live long. Karuna and   start preparing for the baby shower and on the other side,   tells the constable that she knows that the family is mad at her and goes back to the jail.

 Later, Kanta tells Karuna that they must go to Varanasi and conduct maha puja and Dolly agrees with her. Mehek says that even she will accompany Karuna and Dolly to Varanasi. 
 
  and Svetlana are cleaning the jail when the constable gives them the bottle. Anjali starts fighting with prisoners and the lady hits Anjali and Svetlana. Within no time, Anjali, Svetlana and the other prisoner lady get hurt.
 
 Mehek tries to make Shaurya understand that Karuna and Kanta have faith in Pandit Ji and they are doing puja for the family. Shaurya tells Mehek that the Pandit is trying to fool them. In the jail, the doctor gives medicines to Anjali and Svetlana and even treat their wounds. Meanwhile, Svetlana gives an injection to the cops and suddenly the constable comes in. Anjali gives sleeping pills to the cops and both faint. Anjali and Svetlana run from the jail.
 
 While sleeping, Mehek touches the glass and her finger bleeds. Shaurya wakes up and scolds her for not taking care of herself. He then gets a call from the hospital and is shocked to know that Svetlana and Anjali were in the same jail and they have run together.
 
 Shaurya informs Mehek about the same and they call the inspector. The inspector tells them that Anjali gave sleeping pills and injections to the staff. He further tells them that the cop saw her and even shot her. The inspector calls Mehek and Shaurya to the police station and recognize Anjali's dead body. Mehek and Shaurya are shocked and start crying as inspector tells them that they will get the body in three days. The inspector further tells them that Svetlana is in the jail. On the other hand, Inspector tells Svetlana that she might get bail for helping them to catch Anjali. 
 
