Nagpur: Two new industrial units — one of an IT giant and other a new entrant in the FMCG sector — were formally inaugurated on Monday. Both the units clubbed together will be creating 400 jobs in the first phase. As their operations expand, the job count may come to nearly 3,500 in all.

 HCL, which had taken up land in Mihan-SEZ nearly 10 years ago, has finally started the first phase by taking in 100 graduates who will undergo training first. The unit, which was formally opened in the presence of state’s chief minister Devendra Fadnavis and Union transport minister  , is slated to start commercial operations in April.
 
 A little further at MIDC’s Butibori industrial estate, SAJ Food Products’ biscuit-making unit, which has got a mega project status from the state’s industries department, started off. Even this unit will be employing 300 persons initially and take it to 1,500 in three years. Fadnavis and Gadkari were present at the inaugural function here too.
 
 HCL, which originally had over 140 acres of land in the SEZ, cut it down to 50 acres, before firming up plans for a unit here. The first phase covers 12 acres. Apart from 100 trainees, the company has given offer letters to another 300. 
 
 “The Nagpur unit of HCL will be catering to four major businesses operating in oil and gas, telecom and banking sectors. Their turnover adds up to a trillion dollars which cannot be matched by the GDP of 95% of the world’s economies,” said C Vijaykumar, president and CEO of HCL. The company plans to take the number of employees to 2,000 in two years.
 
 Later, a senior official in HCL said the company has also proposed to take up a land parcel out of the SEZ for building residential and health care facilities for its employees.
 
 “HCL founder   had met me seeking help to get the money paid for the land in Mihan-SEZ back as the company had planned to withdraw from here. I convinced him that the region needs more jobs and he agreed. Our only vested interest is to create more jobs for the youth here,” Gadkari said.
 
 At Butibori, the management of SAJ Food Products, which makes Bisk Farm brand of biscuits, plans to start with a turnover of Rs250 crore in the first year. The Butibori plant is the fourth unit of SAJ Food, which started its operations in West Bengal in 2000 marketing , where it has three manufacturing facilities. “The company has established its market share in the eastern region covering Jharkhand, Bihar Odisha apart from the entire north-east. We enjoy second position in the eastern market,” KD Paul, chairman of SAJ Food, told TOI.
 
 From the Butibori unit, the company plans to reach the markets in central and western India. With a capacity to make 6,000 tonnes a year, we plan to start with production of 2,000 tonnes. It comes to Rs200 crore in monetary terms. A turnover of around Rs250 crore is expected in the first year.
 
 The unit has been accorded mega project status on the basis of employment created. It needs 750 jobs in three years for getting the status. The company plans to take it to 1,500 during the period. The initial investment stands at Rs100 crore.
 
 Tenders for Nagpur airport privatization in a mth: Gadkari
 
 Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari said tenders for privatization of Nagpur airport will be issued in a month. Private investment will improve the amenities here leading to better air connectivity, said Gadkari, who is also chairman of task force on Mihan of which the airport is a part.
 
 Chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, during the HCL unit inauguration, said the state will soon be having an integrated IT township. He also said the government is coming up with a policy on industries engaged in financial technology. Apart from the bigger cities, there is a need to create more jobs in financial technology sector in centres like Nagpur, Aurangabad and Nashik too, he said.
 
 Later at SAJ Food function, he exhorted the promoters to expand the operations here as power is sold at lower rates for industries in Vidarbha and Marathwada.
 
 
