MADURAI: The   ( ) for Madurai-People’s Movement demanded that the 63 MLAs from the southern districts should resign if Madurai is deprived of the multi-speciality hospital, which would benefit lakhs of people from the region.

 Speaking to media persons, chief convenor of the movement, V S Manimaran said that they have decided to stage a protest on April 7 in Palangantham to stress their demand. The   health department had submitted a report to the Centre on May 5, 2017. But they had concealed many facts about the Madurai site while answering the 10 questions specified in the report and drafted the document in favour of Thanjavur.
 
 “The matter is pending before the Madurai bench of the Madras high court. Under these circumstances we came to know that the chief minister had stated in the assembly that   was chosen for establishing the hospital. The chief minister had stated that there were many problems with the Madurai site, including the   pipeline passing through it and it also lacked road facilities, which is not true,” Manimaran said. The IOC has already given a no objection certificate to set up the hospital, which is well connected through rail, road and air, he added. 
 
 The poor would get the latest medical facilities at a very affordable cost if the hospital is established here. The project will also come with a medical school, which means more medical seats and over 1,000 nursing seats would also be available to the students of the region. More than 2.60 crore people from the southern districts would benefit from the hospital, he said.
 
 Manimaran also said that the recent   forest fire proved that the Government Rajaji Hospital was not equipped to deal with emergencies, as most patients were shifted to private hospitals. A hospital like AIIMS would be the best in such situations. Open heart surgeries were performed for Rs50,000 or less at AIIMS, which would definitely be a boon for poor patients.
 
 Madurai has been deprived of all the developmental projects of the government, including the defence corridor, hence, AIIMS was the last resort in terms of development for the southern districts and should be established in the district at all costs, he said. 
 
 
