PANAJI: Most schools in Goa affiliated to the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) recorded a 100% pass percentage at the board’s Class XII  , results of which were declared on Saturday. 

 The Navy Children’s School, Chicalim, saw 88 students appear for the exam. “At 100%, this is the third year we have excellent results,” said principal Chhanda Bhattacharjee. “While   topped the school in the commerce stream with a score of 98%, in the science stream, Neha Rana has topped with an aggregate score of 96.2%. Saloni Pradhan has topped the humanities stream with a score of 94.4%.” 
 
 The two Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalayas at Canacona and Valpoi also saw 37 and 19 students appearing through the schools for the Class XII, respectively. All 37 students that appeared from JNV Canacona from the science cleared the exam. Thirty-one of the 37 cleared the exam with a distinction. In the institute, which caters mostly to rural students, the average percentage scored was 84.22%. Sonu Maruti Harijan topped the school in Class XII with 93.6%. “Both JNVs have done very well,” said JNV Valpoi principal Sivanathan M. “All 19 students that appeared for the exam from the humanities stream from JNV Valpoi passed the exam.   scored the highest percentage of 91.6%.” 
 
 From Kendriya Vidyalaya II in Vasco, 57 students appeared for the exam in the science and commerce streams. “Our students have done well,” said school principal Saroj Kujur. “We have 100% results, with Vikas   scoring the highest of 92% in the commerce stream. Rajnandini, with 91.80%, is our science stream topper.” 
 
 Ninety-seven per cent cleared the Class XII exam from Kendriya Vidyalaya, Bambolim. Of the 35 students who appeared for the exam from the school in the commerce and science streams, 34 cleared the exams and one got a compartment in mathematics. Omkar Anand Jha, with 88.6%, topped the school in the science stream and S Shajiya Sareen top-scored in the commerce stream with 84%, the school said.
 
 King’s School, Margao, saw 53 students appearing from the institute for the exam in the science, commerce and humanities streams, all of whom cleared the exam. While  , with 95%, topped the humanities stream from the institute, Ashika Shetty scored the highest of 94% in science and Lovisha Mehta topped commerce stream at the institute with 90%. 
 
 “From Sunshine School, Old Goa, 29 students appeared for the Class XII exam in all the three streams. Eleven scored above distinction, and 12 scored between 60% to 75%. The highest score from the school is 95.8%,” school director Deepak Khaitan told STOI.
 
 
