LUDHIANA: A local court has sentenced a person to six years rigorous imprisonment for abetment to suicide of his wife. The court of additional session judge   also imposed a fine of Rs 50,000 on the convict, and in default of payment of fine to further undergo rigorous imprisonment for a period of one year. On 6 March 2014, Khanna city police had booked the accused Ravi alias   (28) of Khanna under Section 304-B of IPC (dowry death) for his wife Rekha’s death.

 As per prosecution, on 6 March 2014, Rekha’s father Sohan Singh, the complainant, told police his daughter got married to Ravinder on 18 April 2008, and had two children — a daughter and son. He added that after the marriage, his daughter’s in-laws — including Ravinder, brother-in-law Kavi, mother-in-law  , and father-in-law Karnail Singh alias Kuki started maltreating his daughter for dowry, and further demanded a motorcycle and Rs 50,000 from them.
 
 Sohan Singh said after they gave the accused Rs 50,000, for some time Ravinder behaved properly, but started demanding dowry again after some time. He added his daughter would disclose on the phone that all the in-laws used to beat her, after which he and his wife went to their place, requesting them that they had nothing more to give. He further said that in the first week of August, his daughter told them on phone that she was very much upset and they should come and talk with her in-laws, but they could not go due to urgent domestic work. He added that later on 13 August 2012, some members of Rekha’s in-laws’ family informed them that his daughter was suffering from food poisoning, and was taken first to a private doctor, and then to   Khanna, where she died.
 
 The complainant said they had got Rekha’s body cremated after getting her post-mortem done from Civil Hospital by putting pressure on them. He added that due to the shock of losing their daughter, they could not inform the police, and after probing on their own, they came to know that her husband and in-laws had poisoned her, after which she died. The police later booked the accused persons in the case and produced a challan into the matter in the court of law.
 
 During the trial of the case, the accused denied all the allegations and claimed   died a natural death due to food poisoning. The prosecution — on the basis of prosecution witnesses and other evidence — prayed for severe punishment of the accused. The court, after taking evidence on record, convicted the accused Ravi.
 
 
