The   chokes us! They have choked our roads,” fumes 80-year-old Vala, clasping her neck with her hands, before proceeding to halt an oncoming SUV with her walking stick. Vala was one of the 300-odd residents who descended on the Piru Singh Marg — one of the 10 roads that have been closed by the Army in the   — on Saturday evening to give the defence personnel a taste of their own medicine. “Since 2014 the Army authorities have barred civilians from commuting through 10 arterial roads in the Cantonment. By preventing army men and their families from commuting through the roads we want them to experience the inconvenience we have been living with for the past four years,” explains Chandrasekhar, a resident of  , adding, “We are giving them a taste of their own medicine. They blocked our roads, now we shall block theirs. At least for three hours let them face the inconvenience we face round the clock.” 

 The protesters were met with some angry remarks by the army folk, who clearly didn’t approve of the road blockade. “You will do this goondagardi only with the Army, try doing this to a politician,” remarked a lady angrily, as she reversed her car, which bore the sticker that read, ‘ARMY’. 
 This mutual distrust and animosity has been brewing between civilians and the army folk since the closure of roads came into force on January 26 2014. Saturday’s protest threatened to erupt into a full blown confrontation when some army men refused to budge and take a U-turn. A police patrolling van had to come in later to disperse the protesters, a majority of whom were senior citizens and ex-servicemen.
 The face off happened in front of the Valerian Grammar School, right in front of the security check post that blocks civilian entry on the Piru Singh Marg, which leads to Lakdawala Gate. 
 
 Civilians have been forced to take a 8-km detour since the road has been blocked and it has literally drawn a battle line of sorts in the civilian-army relations ever since the blockade was implemented. It is one of six roads that go via the Golf Course, that have been blocked, disconnecting the east and west sides of the area, causing traffic congestion in the locality. 
 “Ek din aap log golf mat khelo, movie mat dekho. Experience the inconvenience we encounter everyday,” rants Gulshan Bamboat, wife of a defence veteran as she blocked many cars that queued up in the evening rush.
 The protesters allege that the road closure has caused a massive drop out rate in the Valerian Grammar School. “The school had 2,200 students five years ago, but it’s so inaccessible now that a 
 student has to change over 3 buses to reach here, so the numbers have fallen to 800. Livelihoods have been lost! What more does the army want?” rued Gulshan.
 
 As the sun set, the protesters marched down the roads holding candles. Former MP G Vivekananda, former municipal chief of Alwal, V Jeevakan and Coporator of Kapra, Swarnaraj Sivamani were also part of the protest that lasted till 7:30 pm. Questioning the rationale behind the blockade, Pankaj Sethi, who filed a petition in the Court on this issue, said, “Beyond the check point, this entire area has just a recreation centre, a theatre and a golf course! The golf course is the most problematic area, it has eight gates around it and all those roads that lead to the golf course have been blocked. What is inside this golf course that is critical to the national security? This is sheer high handednes.” Many residents are peeved at the Army’s unwillingness to engage in a dialogue. “We are asking the Army to just listen to us once. It is our army, we want them to help us civilians. At least they must be open to discussion. How do they expect us to respect them if they can’t even be civil?” asks prominent feminist and academician Susie Tharu, who was also one of the protesters.
 
 
 Residents of Alwal, Kapra and   municipalities have staged many protests against closure of various roads in the Cantonment area in the last four years.But what was new about the ‘rasta-roko’ held on Saturday was that for the first time the members of OSCAR — Open   Càntonment All Roads, a citizen body fighting against the closure of roads in Secunderabad Cantonment — were joined by a GHMC corporator. In fact it was Swarnaraj Sivamani, Kapra Division 1 corporator, who lead the protesters on Saturday. Speaking to Hyderabad Times, Swarnaraj Sivamani says the blocking of roads is a breach of the 2015 diktat issued to all Army authorities by the then Defence Minister   to reopen all the Cantonment roads that were closed without following the due legal procedure. Excerpts:
 
 
 Over 20 lakh residents of Alwal, Kapra and Malkajgiri municipalities have been affected by this road blockade by the Army. These roads were in use for the last 200 years. Initially, areas of Yapral were all farms, but after the British left, people began settling here because the roads were open. The army authorities did shut them off intermittently, but never for this long. All the major roads are blocked and it is causing severe inconvenience to law-abiding citizens. 
 
 
 We are helpless as the army has decided to turn a deaf ear to the Telanagana government’s request to ease the blockades. How do you deal with it? 
 We are trying to exert pressure on the MP Malla Reddy who is going to Delhi this month end. We are hoping that this protest will force the MP to speak for us at the government level.
 
 
 In fact, Defence Minister Manohar Parrikar had decreed back in 2015 that all roads in Cantonment areas across the country that were closed without following the due procedure of consulting the public and seeking feedback from them must be opened in 30 days. What can we do if the army breaks its own orders?
 Secunderabad Cantonment is a peace area. In the 52 years that I lived here, I have never seen any untoward activity. Then all of a sudden in 2012, the Army authorities shut it down citing security concerns in areas where there are theatres and parks. How can they be crucial to national security?
 
 
 
 
