Nagpur: For most of Vidarbha’s history, the practice was limited to net sessions. This season, new coach   brought an innovative idea. The Mumbaikar made the team involved in a lot of match simulation sessions which changed the things for  .

 
 
 “We did a lot of match simulations at the Civil Lines ground. Such practice sessions are realistic and help us in preparing for matches really well,” said Vidarbha skipper   after leading his side to the Irani Trophy title at VCA Stadium, Jamtha, on Sunday.
 
 The simulations translated into big success with dominating batting performance from the Vidarbha batters. “R Sanjay, Wasim (Jaffer) Bhai and Ganesh Satish scored well beyond 750 runs in the season. As the need of the hour is, I feel, I too should promote myself,” he said.
 
 “Even I notched-up 1000 runs and hoping of wearing the national jersey once again. I am fitter than before. I am working hard and looking forward to play Test cricket or in any format donning India cap,” Faiz, who took his multi-day format run tally to 1001 with his 89-run knock in the Irani Trophy first innings, said.
 
 “I still have hopes and the only motive of continuing is that I feel I have the ability to play for India. The day I feel, I can’t reach there, I would pack-up my bags,” the hopeful Faiz said.
 
 After piling a hill of 800 runs, Vidarbha bowlers wrapped-up   innings for 390 to win the second second prestigious title in three months on the basis of first innings lead.
 
 “Ranji Trophy was very special but Irani Trophy is the biggest match of the season as Ranji champions play best players from other teams. It was my dream that we play Irani Trophy. It has been realized and we even emerged champions. It's a perfect icing on the cake,” the skipper summed up the victory.
 
 The skipper hailed the efforts of bowlers and hopes to repeat such performance next season.
 
 "We shall be in a habit of winning the games. It should not look like we won it by a fluke. Winning is always very difficult but we would look to maintain the standard and put best of our efforts in that direction," he added.
 
 
