Mysuru: Sportspersons must inculcate the spirit of nationalism, said C Basavaraju, vice-chancellor (incharge),  .

 At the inaugural function of three-day all India inter-university kho kho men’s competition at the UoM sports ground here on Monday, Basavaraju said, “Devotion, nobility, honesty and discipline are the pillars of any kind of sporting activity. We don’t find any kind of polarization or discrimination in sports, which helps build a healthy atmosphere in society.”
 
 The event has been organised by the varsity’s department of physical education.
 
 Basavaraju also welcomed the participating teams and congratulated the UoM kho kho team for winning the south zone inter-university competition.
 
 Deputy commissioner D Randeep, who inaugurated the event, said: “Kho kho is a traditional sport and it is good to witness it being promoted at university levels. The sport not only involves a lot of physical agility, but also thought process and mental acumen. Apart from this, there is a lot of strategy and team work involved.”
 
 As many as 16 teams from different zones have been divided into four groups. From each zone — south, north, east and west — the top four teams are taking part. The finals will be held on Wednesday.
 
 Record number of teams
 
 C S Grewal, observer for South Zone, told TOI: “Record number of teams participated in the recently concluded South zone inter-university men’s kho kho competition. I had been to many inter-university competitions and also as observer for a few south zone and all india inter university competitions. Usually 40 to 50 teams take part in such competitions, but in Mysuru 62 teams took part, which is a record of sorts. I have never seen such number of teams taking part in an inter-university competition.”
 
 “Organizers have managed the competition successfully. During the four-day event, there was neither protest from any team and nor there was any officiating dispute. Credit goes to UoM officials and staff members,” Grewal said.
 
 
