Ludhiana: Balwinder Singh (45), a head constable of Punjab Police, posted at Police Lines here, shot himself with his service weapon, on Saturday morning. The cop sustained one bullet injury in his stomach, and was immediately rushed to a nearby private hospital in Civil Lines, where his condition is stated to be critical. Balwinder lives with his family in Police Lines quarters. He is in-charge guard at Police Lines, and was on night duty. The incident happened when the cop was resting in a room following night duty. Following the incident, all senior officials rushed to the spot, and then to hospital.

 Senior police officials maintained that it seemed to be a case of accidental firing, though what exactly led to the incident was yet to be ascertained. Additional deputy commissioner of police (ADCP-III) Gurpreet Kaur Purewal said: “Head constable Balwinder was on duty when he went in a room to take some rest. At around 6.15am, Balwinder was resting on his bed with his service rifle, while another constable was standing outside the room. On hearing the gunshot, the constable rushed inside and found Balwinder injured on the bed.”
 
 After he raised an alarm, other cops also came in and Balwinder was rushed to the hospital. Doctors have operated on the head constable, but his condition is still critical. Deputy commissioner of police Ashwani Kapoor said prima facie it appeared to be a case of accidental firing. “The head constable was carrying an XLR service rifle. Apparently, he was taking rest when he accidently triggered the rifle and injured himself,” he said. Senior officials said they were waiting for Balwinder’s statement to ascertain what exactly led to the incident. 
 
 PREVIOUS CASES 
 
 January 26, 2018: A 44-year-old constable of Ludhiana police (Rural), Manjit Singh, shot himself dead, during the Republic Day function in a school with an AK-47 service weapon.
 
 June 1, 2017: A PCR constable Baljeet Singh shot himself after he accidently triggered his service weapon while cleaning it in the early morning hours at Dhandra Road. It was said Baljeet Singh had started cleaning his service weapon, when he accidentally pulled the triggger, following which two bullets pierced his body. 
 
 June 13, 2016: An ASI, Amarjeet Singh, posted at Samrala police station, allegedly accidently shot himself dead, while on duty.
 
 
