LUCKNOW: Despite having gunned down 31notorious criminals and injuring 200 others in close to 1,000 encounters over 10 months, UP police personnel have failed to impress   ministry for home affairs enough to win a President’s police medal for gallantry. Moreover, four policemen laid down their lives while 212 others got injured in exchange of fire with criminals.

 The list of awards and medals given to police forces of states, Union territories and central forces was released by Union ministry of home affairs on Thursday.
 
 
 Among all, President’s police medal for gallantry is considered to be the most coveted while police medal for gallantry stands second. The President’s medal for gallantry has not been awarded to anyone this year.
 
 
 
 
 However, police medal for gallantry has been awarded to 107 security personnel one-third of whom are from central forces with   personnel bagging 35 medals and one going in the kitty of BSF.
 
 The remaining 71 have been grabbed by policemen from eight states with   and Kashmir cops cornering 38 medals followed by   police getting 10 medals. Among the remaining, police forces of Maharashtra, Telangana, Delhi, Odisha, Meghalaya and Jharkand got 7, 6, 3, 3, 3 and one medal, respectively.
 
 Earlier, it was only in 2013 that UP police force did not get either of the two medals on Republic Day. UP police was hopeful of improving upon its tally of 2017 when it bagged seven gallantry medals. Sources in the home department, who were involved in making recommendations for MHA’s police medals, said, “Files for gallantry medals are approved after intense scrutiny that lasts for more than a year at times. This year, medals have not been bestowed upon UP police since very few encounters took place in 2015 and 2016. Our tally would improve significantly next year.”
 
 As   is examining the 31encounters closely, efforts of policemen involved in these ambushes would be acknowledged next year, the officer said with confidence. However, six policemen from UP would be awarded medal for distinguished services and 70 will get the medal for meritorious services.
 
