SULTANPUR LODHI: A tantrik, who is also a municipal councillor, has been booked for rape and criminal intimidation of a woman who began visiting him around 14 years back. The survivor’s brother, who lodged a police complaint on Monday, has accused   of exploiting around 50 women.

 The complainant told police said that his sister revealed her ordeal to the family on Sunday. He said the accused had threatened to harm her family members and defame her by sharing “objectionable” videos on social media platforms. He said his sister had been keeping unwell and when treatment did not help, “some persons said she should be taken to Paali Baba”. “My parents took her to him. He told them that she will have to visit the shrine of Baba Vadbhaag Singh (in Himachal Pradesh) and thereafter come to his place every week,” the complaint told police.
 
 “As my sister visited his local dera regularly and our family also frequented his place, he started saying that she was like a daughter to him. Slowly, he started asking her to visit his place more frequently for ‘sewa’ and then resorted to objectionable acts. My sister told this to his wife, but she also told her to obey him to get rid of her problems. One day he called my sister to his room and raped her while his wife locked it from outside,” the complainant said.
 
 According to the complaint, the tantrik raped her many times and threatened to cause harm to the rest of the family if she told anyone about it. He boasted of his connections and also threatened to make public her videos. “My sister appeared depressed and when we questioned her persistently, she told us about it on Sunday.” He alleged that there would be around 50 other women who had been exploited by the tantrik. 
 
 Cheema was associated with the Akali Dal before he joined Congress a few months back.   MLA   said though he was distantly related to the tantrik, they were politically opposed to each other. “He won election as SAD councillor and then joined Congress but was thrown out of the party some weeks back,” he said. “He should face the consequences if he has done anything wrong, that too in the garb of being spiritual,” the MLA said.
 
 
