NAGPUR: In an era where everyone needs to sell their product with a certain uniqueness, city music show organizers are no step back. Looking for some spice to add to make their show a hit, music organizations are now taking up themes of comedians to get in the audience.

 Recently, singer MA Kader organized a show based on songs filmed on comedians like Mehmood, Johnny Walker, Uma Khatri and Bhagwan Dada. “These talented actors have ruled the hearts of people. The thought behind this concept was to pay tribute to these great souls who have made people laugh and smile playing funny characters on screen,” Kader says.
 
 Though not picturized on mainstream actors, these songs have been popular and still make listeners smile, feels SV Tejinder, principal of DAV College. “One can never forget the work of actors like Mehmood and Bhagwan Dada who dominated our hearts with their acting. The fact that so many people attend these shows speaks of the popularity enjoyed by these veterans.”
 
 Appreciating these inventive ideas, classical singer Pranjali Kadbe says, “Songs like ‘Sar jo tera chakaraye’ and ‘Mere saamne wali khidki main’ are immensely popular and require a lot of skill on part of the singers performing on stage. These concepts, besides being unique, entertain the audience and help amateur singers to grow.”
 
 Having a superstar as the theme is common, what adds to the freshness of a show is offbeat tracks which were popular but are not heard as much now, opines Abha Ojha, a homemaker. “Music too has different moods and themes and when a show is based on actors in supporting roles, it becomes offbeat and attracts audience.” Using video clips of these songs also adds another dimension to the show, she adds.
 
 Innovative concepts are vital to attract public, says Samir Pandit, director of Shri Siddhivinayak Publicity, which organizes maximum shows in the city. “The idea is to entertain music lovers. Given that people enjoy variations, the aim should be to conduct events with themes which are inclusive of songs composed by well-known music directors, singers along with those of actors and singers who are not mainstream.”
 
 It’s a win-win situation for the organizers and the audience, feels businessman ZI Shahzad. “As the songs are evergreen, the singer performs them with confidence before a big crowd and viewers get to relive good old days.”
 
 Terming it as a brilliant marketing technique, engineering student Mohit Varu says, “Smart ideas attract crowds as much as big names. These shows create nostalgia among elders and give a taste of golden era of music to younger members of the audience. That’s the reason that though so many such shows are being organized, each finds its own niche audience.”
 
 But there are those also who feel that amateur singers don’t do justice to these golden melodies. “The golden voices behind these compositions are legends. Very few amateur singers can replicate that magic,” says Sumati Bisen, a teacher. “Many times I feel that their voice does not justify the time and money we invest to watch these performances.”
 
 Though most of the songs are repeatedly heard on radio, unique names do attract audience, says Kishan Sharma, former announcer at Vivid Bharati. “Every age group enjoys the compositions created during black and white era until nineties and these songs have no sell by date.”
 
 
