Vadodara: The list of invitees for the forthcoming annual convocation at M S University is getting longer with each passing day. 

 After President Ram Nath Kovind gave his consent to grace the 66th annual convocation scheduled on January 22, a slew of other dignitaries are expected to remain present at the convocation ceremony. 
 
 Gujarat governor O P Kohli, who by virtue of his post is also visitor at MSU, has also given consent to remain present at the convocation ceremony. 
 
 This apart Gujarat chief minister Vijay Rupani, state education minister Bhupendrasinh Chudasama, minister of state for primary and higher education Vibhavari Dave and a couple of secretaries from the state education department are expected to share the dais at the convocation ground. 
 
 While Chudasama has confirmed his presence at the ceremony, state education department is coordinating with chief minister’s office for Rupani’s presence at the convocation. 
 
 Similarly, while principal secretary (education) and commissioner of higher education, Gujarat have confirmed their presence, MSU officials are awaiting confirmation from Dave and chief secretary (education). 
 
 Ironically, President’s office has confirmed his presence just for an hour between 11 am and 12 noon due to which the university officials have decided to cut short the convocation ceremony. 
 
 Unlike the past, gold medalists will not be conferred the medals during the convocation ceremony. But this has not stopped the university officials from extending invitees to all the possible dignitaries in the state government. 
 
 Usually, the podium at the convocation ground has four chairs meant for the chancellor, the vice-chancellor, the registrar and the chief guest. But this time arrangements are being made to accommodate at least ten dignitaries on the dais itself. 
 
 While cracks that have developed at the permanent podium at the convocation ground are being repaired, the historic building of Sayaji Bhavan will be also provided a facelift ahead of the function. 
 
 The university is also developing parking space near the convocation ground adjoining Sayaji Bhavan and the triangular space adjoining the Centre for Continuing/ Adult Education and Community Services for movement of convoy of VVIPs. 
 
 “We are also preparing green room for President at Sayaji Bhavan and co-ordinating with the police department for escape route and contingency plan,” said an official. 
 
 Sharma to confer gold medals
 
 Vadodara: Gold medalists of M S University will this year receive their medals from the hands of professor P B Sharma, president of the Association of Indian Universities and vice-chancellor of Amity University. 
 
 The university officials have this time decided to confer the gold medals to the meritorious students in a separate function – ‘We are Proud of You’ which will be held on the day of the convocation. 
 
 “We are happy that we have received consent from professor Sharma, a high profile academician, who as chief guest will inspire our students during the ‘We are Proud of You’ function that will be held from 4.30 pm onwards,” said MSU vice-chancellor professor Parimal Vyas. 
 
 Usually, the university holds ‘We are Proud of You’ programme on the eve of convocation ceremonies at ‘Dhanvantri’ – the official residence of VC. But this year, the programme will be held at the convocation ground itself once the convocation ceremony ends. 
 
 
