NAVI MUMBAI: The   has   two   for creating chaos at the auto rickshaw stand outside Vashi railway station by protesting   the Traffic Police action for issuing e-challan to auto drivers violating traffic rules. The traffic units across the city have started a drive against rogue auto drivers, who violate traffic rules by parking auto rickshaws at road junctions and near building entrances thus creating obstacles for other vehicles and pedestrians as well.

 However, the offender auto drivers have not paid the penalty even though the e-challan system has the facility to accept credit/debit card payment or cash payment as well. Hence, their penalty will be recovered when they visit the RTO office for annual renewal of auto permit, informed   Inspector Satish Gaikwad
 
 Gaikwad said, “As per the directives of DCP (traffic) Nitin Pawar, all traffic units across the city in co-ordination with the Vashi RTO team have started a drive against rogue auto rickshaw drivers who violate traffic rules and the offenders are been issued e-challans. In past three days, we have issued e-challans to as many as 30 offender auto drivers. Most of the offenders have been issued e-challans for waiting at the road corners and busy junctions, to pick up passengers, instead of waiting at auto stands. While, many more were issued e-challans for driving autos without permit and some without uniform. Even drunk driving cases were served e-challan of Rs 2,000. ”
 
 Gaikwad added, “On Monday morning, a group of 4-5 auto drivers created a chaos at the auto stand outside Vashi railway station by alleging that the traffic police was deliberately harassing the auto drivers by issuing e-challans for picking up passengers in the middle of roads instead of from auto stands. They claimed that it was an injustice on them that was affecting their daily earnings. As two of the auto drivers, including one identified as Roshan Patil, was provoking other auto drivers to stage a protest and prevent autos from ferrying passengers, we summoned the Vashi Police team and the duo miscreant auto drivers were detained by them and taken to the Police station.”
 
 
