MUMBAI: A blend of vintage and fresh talent scored top honours at India’s leading film music awards ceremony on Sunday evening.The 10th   were presented at Dome@NSCI at SVP stadium in Worli.

 
 
 Director Imtiaz Ali’s tried and trusted team of music composer Pritam and lyricist Irshad Kamil creamed the competition by bagging five awards, including Album of the Year for ‘When Harry Met Sejal’. The wind blew in their favour with ‘Hawayein’ winning Song of the Year, Best Lyricist, Best Composer as well as Best Male Vocalist for Arijit Singh.
 
 Shreya Ghoshal redeemed the fortunes of ‘Half Girlfriend’ by winning Best Female Vocalist for ‘Thodi Der’.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 Other films like ‘Tumhari Sulu’, ‘Shaadi Mein Zaroor Aana’, ‘Secret Superstar’ and ‘Raees’ won awards for Upcoming Talent.
 
 The host for the evening was singer   whose repartee and abundant experience at anchoring music shows on TV has helped him perfect the art. His parody of popular songs on the Aadhaar card drew much laughter. The ceremony was interspersed with robust performances by Nigam, Ghoshal, Javed Ali, Harshdeep Kaur, Ayushmann Khurrana and Neha Bhasin.
 
 Sufi continued to be the flavour of the season. The audience hummed along to popular numbers like ‘Kun Faya Kun’ from the film ‘Rockstar’.
 
 Royal Stag Mirchi Music Awards proved it encourages new artistes not only by awarding their efforts but also by giving them a platform to showcase their vocal skills. A group of newcomers, including Dev Negi, Nikita, Akhil and Sasha, performed live before a full house.
 
 The audience cheered as A R Rahman was felicitated for completing 25 years of composing for Hindi cinema. The shy genius smiled in his seat as young singers performed his songs right from ‘Roja’ to ‘Dil Se’ and ‘Enna Sona’ from ‘OK Jaanu’. Director   and music director Anandji presented the award.
 
 “I want to thank the whole industry,” said Rahman. “I am from the South and people said to me that nobody (from there) can enter the (Hindi film) industry. But you embraced me with love…I tell my children to be the best. If you are good at what you do, people will accept you.”
 
 Old is gold remains true as always. Spectators applauded warmly as Guru Dutt’s epochmaking picture ‘Pyaasa’ (1957) won Best Album of the Golden Era. Mohammed Rafi’s son Shahid sang songs from the film.
 
 Another pleasant surprise came when   presented a Special Jury award to the Voice of Radio, Ameen Sayani. She even joined voice to his favourite song, ‘Mann Re Tu Kaahe Na Dheer Dhare’. Azmi recommended that the Mirchi Awards include non-film songs in its repertoire to expand the vocabulary of present-day lyrics, a suggestion that won the wholehearted approval of musicians assembled there.
 
 The ‘Golden Boy’ of Hindi film music Bappi Lahiri received the Lifetime Achievement Award for his contributions over the past 46 years. Indeed, the sheer breadth of his range shone through in his medley that included ‘Chalte Chalte’, ‘Shyam Rang Ranga Re’, ‘Bambai Se Aaya Mera Dost’, ‘Kisi Nazar Ko’ and ‘Disco Dancer’ to ‘Ooh La La’. Bappida thanked his peers, particularly A R Rahman.
 
 The title sponsor of the Royal Stag Mirchi Music Awards is Royal Stag Music CDs. The awards are co-powered by Dabur Red Paste, Tecno Camon i and B Natural Juices & Beverages.
 
 The Royal Stag Mirchi Music Awards will be telecast on Zee TV at 8pm on March 18.
 
