IMPHAL: The Joint Action Committee Against Forced Inauguration of Mapithel Dam (JAC-AFIMD), a pressure group of activists protesting the manner of construction of the Mapithel dam over Thoubal river in   district, has called a 48-hour statewide bandh from Wednesday midnight. The bandh has been called to coincide with the visit of the Prime Minister and the home minister here on Friday. 

 Construction work on the Mapithel or Thoubal multipurpose project began back in the late eighties. Anti-dam lobbyists have contended for long that the dam was constructed without informed consent of villagers in both upstream as well as downstream areas of the project. The construction also undermined concrete policies of resettlement of affected villagers as stipulated by national and international laws, they have said. Construction of the dam has changed the flow of the Thoubal river and left many villages without their primary source of livelihood, they have also alleged. As a consequence of several protests and legal hurdles, the Mapithel project has been in the construction phase for almost three decades now.
 
 The BJP-led state government has been celebrating its first anniversary in power over the month of March. While the first half of the month has been earmarked for inaugurating developmental projects across the state, foundation stones for various projects are scheduled to be laid in the later half. Prime Minister   is scheduled to arrive on March 16 to inaugurate several projects - with the dam being one of them.
 
 The JAC-AFIMD said it has recently submitted memoranda to the PM, the governor and the chief minister requesting to refrain from commissioning Mapithel dam till the demands of the affected people are complied with. "The demands include payment of adequate compensation to the affected people in concurrence with the Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013," said a statement issued by the  .
 
 The statement also mentioned a verdict of the National Green Tribunal, Eastern Zone Bench (Kolkata) from December 7 last year, which stated that the state government has violated statutory requirements provided under the Forest Rights Act 2006.
 
 The JAC said the attempt by the government to commission the dam without following proper procedures is against the law. Educational institutions, medical and water supplies, electricity and media will be exempted from the purview of the 48-hour bandh, said the JAC.
 
 
