KOLKATA: The largest prison to-prison immigration, involving several top-security convicts like   attack mastermind Aftab Ansari and Bengal’s only functional capital punishment facility, has started, in order to make way for a Rs 250-crore project that will culminate in a 20-acre plot being opened up for development.

 
 The prime property, bigger than 11football fields, is conservatively valued at Rs 960 crore.
 
 With the 112-year-old   Central Correctional Home moving to a modern G+1 facility in Baruipur by end-June, the prison directorate has identified around 700 prisoners to be shifted to the new facility. The 200 convicts and 500 undertrials will be moved to Baruipur in phases from July to November. The total number is less than half of Alipore’s prison population, which now stands at 1,971; nearly 600 of them are convicts, the rest undertrials.
 
 To make space, 200 convicts from Dum Dum have already been shifted to prison facilities in Midnapore, Krishnagar and  . “The process will resume soon, now that the panchayat poll model code of conduct has ended. Till the poll process was over, the police were unable to provide security for the transfer,” a top state officer told 
 .
 
 Not all undertrials in Alipore will be shifted to Baruipur. “We have to produce them in court every fortnight. By shifting all to Baruipur, production in courts in and around Kolkata will be a logistical nightmare,” the officer said.
 
 The government has decided to shift to Baruipur only those undertrials who must be produced in courts in Diamond Harbour, Baruipur and Alipore. The rest will be relocated primarily to Dum Dum, a small number to Presidency and even the Hooghly district correctional home.
 
 The swanky G+1 Baruipur facility — with   coverage and high-end electronic surveillance — is likely to be completed in end-June. “However, we
 
 expect to make use of it by mid-June. It will be a vertical facility and can be extended to a G+2 structure, if needed. It will have lots of open spaces,” he said.
 
 The officer added that capital punishment facilities were there in Presidency, Dum Dum and Midnapore central correctional homes. “Any one will be repaired and renovated. That is the least of our worries.”
 
 The bigger worry may be history. Home to several heritage sites, Alipore jail is also the place where the country’s first Prime Minister, Bengal’s first chief minister and Kolkata’s first mayor were incarcerated. Netaji, it is believed, had planned his “great escape” here. Also, Alipore is home to India’s oldest printing press ( ), a 130-yearold heritage site.
 
 “A survey of all heritage structures at Alipore jail has been completed. Multiple agencies are being involved for aplan of action once the premises are vacated,” the officer said. The notification for the new Baruipur facility has been made, but it is still not clear whether it will be accorded “central correctional home” status.
 
 
