TUTICORIN: A few hours after the state government passed a Government Order directing the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (TNPCB) to seal the Sterlite copper smelter unit in  , the district administration and the revenue officials sealed the factory on Monday evening. As the news spread to nearby hamlets, villagers who had been protesting said it was welcome.

 
 But there was no celebrations as several hamlets were mourning the death of the protesters in police firing. The relatives of the deceased have asked the state government to reclaim the land used by Sterlite to ensure that the factory would not be operated again.
 
 A team of revenue department officials headed by district collector Sandeep Nanduri and a police team led by Superintendent of Police   reached the Sterlite copper smelter unit here with the GO. Soon after the Tuticorin tahsildar   sealed the factory after pasting the GO on the factory gate, district collector Sandeep Nanduri informed the reporters that Sterlite unit has been permanently closed. “The state government has taken the decision to shut the factory permanently by considering the feedback from the people in Tuticorin. The factory will not run again,” district collector added. Reacting to the development, people who have been protesting and demanding the closure of the factory expressed that they are not in a position to celebrate the victory as it has come after losing lives. Relatives of the deceased claimed that the GO if issued prior to May 22 could have saved 13 lives and several others from being injured.
 
 
 “We always wished to celebrate the permanent closure of Sterlite unit by bursting crackers but with 13 of our people losing their lives during the 100-day protest, we are not in a situation to celebrate,” C Julie, resident of Mathakoil told TOI. On seeing the officials from district administration approaching the Sterlite unit to seal the premises, villagers from Madathur, Meelavattam and   approached the factory premises and expressed that closure of the factory was a victory to the decades old protests of the local people. “The state government should not stop with just issuing a GO, but it should remove all the machinery from the factory and reclaim the land,” S   from  , sister of   who was killed in police firing, said. There were not much of celebrations in the coastal town as people are yet to recover from the impact of police firing.
 
