PUNE: Have a torn or damaged currency note and do not know what to do with it? It’s time to head to a little store located among the numerous utensil stores near  .

 For the last 70 years, Desai and Company has been dealing in  . Founded by his father decades ago, Dilip Desai shared that his business is flourishing as over 800   are exchanged here on a daily basis. “My father started the store and we have been dealing in exchange of currency notes ever since. My store has seen currencies change, from one anna to Rs1,000 to the new Rs2,000 notes. Since there is no ‘udhari’ or lending and borrowing involved, my business has flourished and will continue to do so,” Desai stated. 
 
 According to him, there are about two or three stores in the city that deal in exchange of notes. “People come here with notes that are completely damaged. I have exchanged notes that have been eaten by rodents or damaged by termites. People come to me with such notes and after cutting a small commission, I return the remaining money,” he explained. 
 
 The commission charged depends on the condition of the note. For example, if a new Rs500 note is slightly torn, Desai would charge about Rs40 or Rs50 for the exchange. 
 
 The damaged notes are deposited with the   (RBI). “Once we receive the damaged note, we clean and paste it. It is then sent to the RBI through a registry. I receive my new stock of currency notes from agents in Mumbai and Delhi,” said Desai, who is also in possession of the recently launched Rs10 notes that are sparsely available in the market.
 
 Remembering the time following the 2016 demonetization, Desai said that hordes of people thronged his little store to get their old Rs500 and Rs1,000 notes exchanged. “After the demonetization announcement, people were scared and rushed to me to get their old currency notes exchanged. However, we did not accept any old notes. I still have some people, who approach me with the discarded currency notes but we do not accept those,” he stated. 
 
 Desai also deals in sale of old currency, including notes and coins, to collectors. “We have the old Re 1 and Rs2 notes among others, which have a good enough demand in the market. People are ready to spend to have these collectibles. We also deal in pure silver coins of various denominations like Rs200, Rs250, Rs500 or Rs1,000 issued by the RBI. We are authorized to take bookings for these coins, which are not legal tender. We send the bookings to RBI, which mints these coins based on the number of bookings. The waiting period for such coins goes up to over two years but people can be quite patient,” he explained. 
 
 Desai’s son handles the store in his absence and is set to take over the store at a later time. “This business needs good knowledge of currency. There is a need to first identify if the notes are real or fake. We have to know which notes will be accepted by the bank. My son has seen me running the business and now understands the intricacies of currency,” he stated.
 
 
