GURUGRAM: Playing hopscotch to get to Government Boys Senior Secondary School in   is nothing new for its students and teachers, with sewage water perennially overflowing onto the road just outside the gate. 

 Though the area was cleaned up recently for Union minister Rao Inderjit Singh’s rally, sewage water has again started accumulating .
 
 “There are electricity poles where water is collected. Who will take responsibility if a student is electrocuted?” asks Anuradha Sharma, principal.
 
 The school authorities had written a letter to the MCG commissioner on February 15, apprising him of the civic mess. 
 
 Vinod Kumar Malik, vice- principal, said, “Around 20 days back Rao Inderjit Singh’s rally was held in this school. We faced the same issue at that time, but authorities got their act together and swiftly cleaned the water. Today, our students have to pass through this stagnant sewage water every day. We wrote to MCG on this but no action has been taken yet. Who will take responsibility for mosquitoes breeding in this water? This is a major health risk for students.” TOI also has a copy of the letter the school sent to MCG.
 
 Students complained that they are forced to cross this 200 metre stretch of filthy water to enter the school. 
 
 Arun Singh, Class 8 student said, “To enter the school we have to take off our shoes and walk through the filthy water and finally wash our feet before sitting in classes and often our uniforms also get wet and dirty.” Shyam Raghav, a Class 9 student, said, “The stink from the stagnant water is so bad that some days we cover our nose while crossing the water. There is no other way to enter the school.”
 
 MCG officers claimed to be unaware of the matter and, when questioned about the problem, passed the buck from one officer to other. 
 
 It seems no one in the MCG knew who will handle this particular issue. Gopal Kalawat, executive engineer, water supply and sewerage, zone III&IV said, “I have seen the stagnant water in front of the school. This water is caused mainly because of the Om Dairy close to the school. A water pipe from the dairy is the main source of water overflowing in that area. Moreover, this particular issue will be dealt with by another officer, Anand Singh Rathi, executive engineer in our office.”
 
 “Oh! I have no clue about this issue of water collected in front of the school. I will get it checked. This area doesn’t fall under my jurisdiction. You’ll have to speak with another official-Tushar Yadav, sub-divisional officer (SDO),” said Anand Singh Rathi. 
 
 “I look after roads. This issue comes under water and sewerage. Anyhow, I will look into this matter immediately and the problem will be solved,” said Yadav.
 
 
