CHANDIGARH: In a rare comment outside the pale of golf, India’s most successful professional golfer, Padma Shri awardee   Singh, expressed anguish over the   rape and murder of a tribal minor girl. Jeev tweeted that a “numbness” had overcome him and he was supported by his wife,  , who tweeted in support saying: “Let’s stand up to this atrocity.”

 Known for his reluctance to comment in the political and social domain, Jeev broke ranks with his past to tweet off his official handle: “'There is just a sense of numbness these last few days. I have a 8-year-old son and the slightest scratch playing football drives me crazy. Can’t even imagine an 8-year-old daughter drugged and gang-raped for days. Let’s all become real fathers India. No more..." Jeev tweeted and it drew instant support gathering 299 retweets and 645 likes. 
 
 While India’s other top golfers, including top-ranked   Sharma, were silent on the Kathua rape, Shubhankar's father and Panchkula resident, Col ML Sharma (retd.), reacted to Jeev’s tweet in a series of replies: “Most horrible thing to happen! Sick and shocking. Sadder thing to happen is the vested interests seeing an opportunity even there. You can clearly make out from sick reactions of so-called intelligentsia. For God’s sake it’s about a child and that’s that. Exemplary punishment is the answer. It's not about currently leading alone. It's about all of us. The way we have become as people these days — callous, impressionable/ having no deeper understanding of thing, lacking sense of history and our culture/value system. Need a revolution!”
 
 In keeping with his emphasis on family values and good upbringing of children, Jeev approvingly retweeted a reply to his Kathua rape post by Joydeep Ganguly, the latter having stated: “Absolutely and for that to happen Indian men need to change. Every house needs to give the right upbringing to their sons (sic).”
 
 The plight of another gangrape victim,  , had so moved the Milkhas that the Flying Sikh had burst into tears at a ceremony in her remembrance at Gurgaon in December 2012. Jeev had then quietly donated Rs 3 lakh from his tournament winnings to Nirbhaya’s family. “They should not feel alone at this tragic hour. Their daughter was our daughter, India's daughter and her loss is our loss,” Flying   had told the media in 2012.
 
 Jeev also retweeted filmstar   Akhtar and poet/lyricist Javed Akhtar on the Kathua rape. While Farhan’s tweet, “Imagine what goes through the mind of an 8 year old as she is drugged, held captive, gang-raped over days and then murdered”, drew 26,000 retweets and 54,000 likes, Javed Akhtar stated: “She was an eight-year-old daughter of Bakerwals. Who are Bakerwals? A nomad tribe who spotted the Kargil intruders and promptly informed the army. Who are the people who are trying to protect the rapists of this little girl? Now it is your turn to answer.” 
 
 Javed’s tweet drew a response of 11,000 retweets and 26,000 likes.
 
 
