NAVI MUMBAI:   has picked a suitable consultant that has won the technical and commercial bid to design and develop the proposed project of converting the existing   bus depot in sector 9   into an integrated bus terminus cum commercial complex. The project has an estimated cost of Rs 140 crore.

 Since the loss-making transport wing of the civic body is unable to take up the project on its own and the earlier build-operate-transfer formula got no encouraging response, NMMC has decided to pour in funds for the construction of the complex.
 
 According to civic sources, e-tendering process to rope in a consultant for the project has been completed. Among the three consortiums that were in the fray, Knight Frank India Private Limited has won the bid. 
 
 The project will come up on an area measuring 10, 276 square metres on the existing depot at the upmarket Vashi node. In accordance with NMMC’s development control rules (DCR), which is also approved by the state government and  , 1.5 FSI is permissible. Out of which 0.5 FSI will be utilized for NMMT and the remainder for commercial purposes. 
 
 The civic commissioner has given an administrative approval to the tendering process to appoint the consultant. “The proposal has been sent to the transport committee for its approval. Once sanctioned, the consortium will be awarded work order to execute the project soon,” said NMMC chief   N. The project will be ready in the next two years, said officials.
 
 The revenue generated by the project is primarily intended to cut into the transport body's losses. 
 
 The consultant will conduct a market and feasibility study of the project besides providing architectural service, floating of tenders, project management consulting and its implementation, maintenance and leasing assistance-transaction advisory services .
 
 Around 75% of the total area is to be used for the movement of buses. The proposd structure will be two-tiered with the lower tier comprising fivefloors and the upper tier 10 floors. The second floor to the fourth floor will be reserved for parking facilities for 345 four-wheelers. The commercial area will be meant to house restaurants, banquet halls consultancy chambers, clinics, budget hotels and offices.
 
 
