The happy upward graph of prosperity and longevity for Indians is tinged with a health scare: the rising incidenceof age-related chronic diseases such as cancer. Doctors that we spoke to for Outsmart Cancer, a Times of India initiative in association with Apollo   Centre, estimate that 10 lakh new cases of cancer are added to the country’s patient pool every year, while another 7 lakh die due to the disease and its complications. By 2020, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) estimates that the numbers would be 17.8 lakh cases and 8.8 lakh deaths respectively.

 It’s not just the high death rate, cancer patients have to endure physical hardships of toxic chemotherapy as well as emotional trauma. “Cancer causes mental, social and financial crises in people’s lives,” said cancer surgeon and anti-tobacco activist Dr Pankaj Chaturvedi.
 
 Not surprisingly then, researchers have been looking for ways to outsmart cancer. The search for a reveal-in-a-jiffy diagnostic test or prevent all-cancers vaccine has so far eluded researchers, but doctors have over the years cobbled together a small list of dos and don’ts that can reduce cancer-related stress (see graphic).
 
  
  
 
 Aquestion that urban Indians always wonder about is: could regular preventive checks help outsmart cancer? Dr  , who heads the medical oncology department of Tata Memorial Hospital in Parel, said screening and regular checks help to an extent, but are notfoolproof methods to diagnose the disease. “People who undergo regular checkups are healthconscious and would seek an evaluation if they find a lump. Thus undergoing regular checks does indirectly help,” hesaid.
 
 From simple complete bloodcount ( ) totheCA125 test, from mammograms to pap smears, annual checks could help to a certain extent. A higher white blood cell count in successive blood tests or repeated presence of occult blood in stool could raise a flag about cancer. “These readings would prompt thedoctor to ask the patient to undergo a thorough examination for cancer,” said Dr Banavali. He, however, said that blood tests need to be coordinated with a good annual physical checkup and sonography scans for early detection of cancer.
 
 On the bright side, doctors say that Indians could outsmart cancer with better lifestyle choices. “Around twothirds of the cancers are relatedtolifestyle. This means they are preventable,” said Dr Chaturvedi.
 
 “Awareness that tobacco and alcohol are class I carcinogens (substances capable of causing cancer in living tissues) would go a long way,” added Dr Banavali. Obesity has now been identified as one of the biggest risk factors for cancer.
 
 The Department of   Energy-run Tata Memorial Hospital has been carrying out a long-running screening programme in Dervan, Ratnagiri district, for early detection. While the results are still being evaluated, doctors say there has been a manifold awareness about cancer in the region. “The number of patients coming with early stage cancer has increased because of awareness. Not only will treatment bedone at a fraction of the cost, it will also be less rigorous,” saiddoctors.
 
 Experts say that the government should play a proactive role in cancer prevention. There have been sporadic instances of local government imposing a ‘fat tax’ on high-caloriefoods and building cycling tracks and developing open spacesto promoteexercises.
 
 “A healthy lifestyle is important for prevention of cancer. India cannot afford to treat all its cancer patients, but it can afford to create awareness about the symptoms and early detection,” said Dr Banavali.
 
