KOLKATA: With no squall hitting the city in the past 10 days, Kolkata is reeling under intense humidity. Even though the mercury has not risen above the normal mark in the past few days, high humidity has pushed up the discomfort index, making the weather unbearable. The Met office has forecast some thundershower activities either on Monday or Tuesday, but those would not be significant enough to bring instant respite, weathermen said.

  
  
 
 “May is coming to an end and the southwest monsoon has now advanced towards the Andaman region. As a result, a lot of moisture is being injected into the land, pushing up the humidity. In the absence of thundersquall or thundershower activities, this spell of uncomfortable weather will persist for now,” said  , director (weather) at Regional Meteorological Centre, Kolkata.
 
 The maximum temperature on Sunday at 35.6°C was at the normal mark. But the high relative humidity at 88% pushed up the discomfort index to 63.
 
 The discomfort index is the impact of heat stress on an individual and it is calculated taking into account the temperature and humidity. According to weather scientists, people feel comfortable till this index remains within
 
 55. The higher it moves after that, the higher is the stress of heat on individuals.
 
 “It being a Sunday, my son wanted to go out to the neighbourhood park. I took him out but had to return indoors after only a few minutes as the weather was unbearable,” said homemaker   from  .
 
 The last time Kolkata had a squall this month was on the 18th and it was a double squall. While the first one at 56kmph blew through at 3.30pm, the second one struck at 92kmph half an hour later, dragging the mercury down by 7°C. After this, despite cloud cover on a number of days, the city has not had any significant thundershower to make a difference.
 
 “We expect thundershower activities on Monday or Tuesday. But they will not be enough to drag the mercury down and the maximum temperature will continue to hover around 35°C to 36°C,” said Das.
 
 Kolkata gets 2.5 squalls in May on an average. But this May, the city has already had four, with frequent thundershowers in between. But there has been a lull after May 18, except for a brief shower on May 22. The Met office, however, expects spells of pre-monsoon showers before the southeast monsoon rains arrive.
 
 Under normal circumstances, monsoon hits the city between June 8 and 10. “The monsoon is expected to hit the Kerala coast in the next 48 hours. We can make an assessment of its arrival in our region only after that,” said Das.
 
