SHIMLA: The tourist town of Shimla is reeling under severe water crisis with the BJP-led state government and the municipal corporation failing to provide sufficient drinking water to its residents.

 Residents of   area of Sanjauli suburbs were forced to fetch water from the local cremation ground on the bypass road on Sunday after they failed to get it on the sixth consecutive day.
 
 BJP councillor from Engine Ghar Ward, Arti Chauhan said water was available in sufficient quantity but wrong distribution was resulting into crisis. “Water is available in sufficient quantity for influential people and hotel owners but it is only the common people who are made to suffer,” she alleged.
 
 Fed up with the failure of the MC to supply them with drinking water, hundreds of residents of Shimla took out a protest march on Sunday night and walked from the MC office to the residence of the chief minister.
 
 Hundreds of people took part in the protest march from 10 pm to 1.30 am. Before coming to power, the BJP had promised 24 hours water supply to the Shimla residents.
 
 Protesters said never before had a witnessed such a situation where they were left without water supply for a week.
 
 “As per the distribution roster our area had to get water on May 26, but supply was not made and officials had promised to supply water on Sunday morning. Throughout the day people kept waiting for water but received none,” said Sushma Kuthiala, the Congress councilor from the Ram Bazar ward.
 
 She said that people waited till 10 pm for the supply and then came to her residence and started demanding water and when she contacted the officials they said water would be supplied on Monday morning. “This left the residents agitated and they asked me to accompany them to the CM’s residence to highlight the issue,” she added.
 
 When she, along with the residents reached near the CM’s residence, she said, “Policemen manhandled women and did not allow us to meet the CM. Later they registered case against me and my family. If demanding water for survival is a crime then we are ready to commit this crime again and again.”
 
 She said the police officials present there were requested to allow a delegation to meet the CM but the latter started beating them up despite protest being peaceful.
 
