HYDERABAD: Extramarital affairs triggered by unhappy marital relationships caused the death of two persons in the city.

 A history-sheeter was murdered by the brothers-in-law of his lover after he sent a ‘humiliating’ message from her phone to her husband.In another incident, a 32-year-old factory worker was strangled to death by his wife and her lover for coming in the way of their relationship.
 
 History-sheeter  , 28, was stabbed to death by Javeed Khan and Naveed Khan near Bibi Ka Chasma in Falaknuma on Thursday night. Isa was a history-sheeter of Falaknuma police station. He had an affair with a housewife from   in Falaknuma. Despite knowing about Isa’s affair, the woman’s family could not stop it as they were afraid of Isa.
 
 Isa became arrogant and a few days ago, sent a text message from his lover’s phone to her husband saying that the latter cannot do anything about the affair. Humiliated and enraged, the woman’s husband and his brothers hatched a plan to kill Isa. The woman’s brothers-inlaw, Javeed and Naveed Khan, both drivers, called Isa to discuss about it at Bibi Ka Chasma area on Thursday at 11.30pm.
 
 “An argument broke out between them. During the scuffle, Naveed stabbed Isa on the chest with a dagger and he died on the spot,” Falaknuma ACP Syed Fayaz said. On Friday night, police took the duo into custody.
 
 In another case, housewife P Tulasi, 24, and her lover Ch Veera Babu, were arrested for allegedly killing the former’s husband P Jagadeeswar Rao, 33, at his house in   on February 24.
 
 According to the police, Babu and Rao were colleagues at   in Balanagar. Two years ago, Tulasi developed an intimate relationship with Babu.
 
 Rao came to know about the affair and a few weeks ago, threatened to kill them.
 
 On February 24, when Rao came home for lunch, Babu followed him and attacked him. Tulasi bolted the main door of the house. Babu strangled him using a stole with Tulasi’s help, police said. After killing him, Babu returned to the factory and Tulasi told the neighbours that Rao died of a heart attack. Police found the entire episode suspicious. Tulasi and Babu were held on Friday.
 
