MUMBAI: As the traditional chalk and talk classrooms make way for whiteboard, bots and LCD-projector-equipped smart rooms, being a student today is clearly different from what it was even half a decade ago. 

 For an entire generation being raised on a multimedia diet, what do these changes mean and are contemporary schools able to strike a balance between giving their students a   edge without compromising the mind’s ability to think? Ways to merge e-learning and conventional methods to make schools relevant to changing times were some of the topics of deliberation at a principals’   hosted by the   ( ) at Hotel Sahara Star on Thursday, where 350 heads of schools from across the city took part.
 
 With ‘learning through science and technology’ as key focus, the panel comprising educators and technology specialists — Shivaprasad Khened, director, Nehru Science Centre and National Gallery of Modern Art; Sandeep Nath, lyricist and screenwriter; writer Shobhaa De, Fatema Agarkar, co-founder, KA EduAssociates; actor Daisy Shah; A K Nema, associate director, Nuclear Power Corporation of India Ltd; and Krishna Singh, founder chairman and MD, Global Space — mulled over ways to prepare schools for the challenges of the day. 
 
 At a time when the   and robotic learning have caught the imagination of schools, the reliance on digital tools is also seen as eroding basic abilities to spell and count. Pondering over whether the “switch from mental maths to calculators was a leap forward or backward”, Shobhaa De, the chief guest, pointed at the need for “IQ and EQ balance”. 
 
 “Technology has its pluses and minuses but I worry about younger generations becoming too dependent on techno toys and living in a virtual world,” she said.
 
 Qualities such as creativity should be fiercely cultivated to keep the mind agile, the panel agreed. The conversation veered towards fears associated with science and maths as De recounted the “miserable years” she spent in school feeling unintelligent “because I was a failure in maths and science”. Lyricist Nath agreed: “My parents had given up any hope for me when my science and math results were not at par with my linguistic skills. In fact, I forced myself to study law to prove a point that I wasn’t dull.”
 
 The need for an “interdisciplinary approach” integrating separate subjects into a cohesive paradigm was a way Vandana Lulla, principal, Podar International, stressed would have bearings in the real world. 
 
 With India ranking second in the world for STEM (science, technology, engineering and mathematics) education and an increasing number of parents keen on robotic education as a parallel system, according to Amit Verma of Global Space, the power of science and technology in education is hard to ignore. Khened said: “Internet is a level playing ground and everyone across the rural urban divide has access to knowledge.” While the audio-visual senses of students are targeted and helps them store information faster and effectively, Khened admitted that “rote learning wouldn’t churn out a productive worker.” 
 
 Certain schools are now trying to refocus on practical skills and reconnecting children with nature. If Debika Chatterjee, principal of JBCN International School, Borivli spoke of novel interventions like “story writing in mathematics” to blur the differences and anxieties, Priya Deshpande of Childreach India emphasised experiential learning: “We teach science through gardening and history through trips to different museums.”
 
 
