By- Jayakrishnan.Nair@timesgroup.com

 KOTTAYAM: The district administration is planning to set up a de-addiction centre exclusively for children, the first of its kind in the state.
 
 The officials have written to the state government on the project and an agency has come forward to establish the centre, which will admit only children below the age of 18.
 
 
 Funds from Vimukti, the state-level project to conduct awareness campaigns against alcoholism and drug abuse, will be used to set up and run the centre.
 
 District collector B S   said the centre will start functioning after getting the state government’s clearance.
 
 Total Response to Alcohol and Drug Abuse ( ), an organization, which has been working in the field for over three decades have come forward to run the centre, he said.
 
 “Once estab centre will be the first of its kind in the state,” he added.
 
 He also said that the district administration suggested the project as it has been found that more and more high school students were trying drugs.
 
 Suresh Richard, deputy commissioner of the excise department, said there has been a sharp rise in the number of narcotics cases involving children.
 
 In the past four months alone 109 such cases were registered in the district and out of them 34 were related to substance abuse by childr “In most of the cases, by the time the child has been identified as an addict, it will be too late. More than punishment, the child needs proper treatment and counselling,” he said.
 
 Earlier, people had the notion that most of the children who enter the world of drug addiction come from broken and poor families. But recent studies suggest that children who need help in drug abuse come from well-to-do families as well. Their parents are either teachers, government officials, businessmen or even those w dinary jobs Richard pointed out.
 
 Sr  , the founder secretary of TRADA, said children cannot be treated along with adults. Children should be treated in a different way for substance use and other compulsive behaviour. We need to restructure their personality, teach hobbies and develop their interest in arts, among other things, she said. Joan, belonging to the  , has worked in children deaddiction centres in the US. The proposed centre will conduct counselling sessions for parents also
 
