MEERUT: Three days after two sisters were found burnt to death in their house in   on February 1, police claimed to have worked out the case with the arrest of one Rahul Sirohi alias Pushkal, a 25-year-old engineer who was in a relationship with one of the girls.
 
  According to the police, Rahul murdered Sheelu, 22, who refused to go against the wishes of her family to marry him. He later murdered her cousin, Shivani, 20, who was watching TV in an adjoining room.
  
  Senior superintendent of police   said, “Rahul had landed at the residence moments after their family left for Delhi three days ago. It was towards the evening that Rahul got furious over Sheelu not conceding to his marriage proposal. He strangled her with his hands. He later went out and took out a wire from his motorcycle and strangled her again. He also killed her cousin Shivani, 20, and burnt both the bodies in his attempt to destroy all the evidence and witness.”
  
  According to the police, Rahul and Sheelu had known each other for the past four years and Rahul had once approached her family with a marriage proposal which was turned down. Police had earlier   of some acquaintance given the circumstantial evidence and friendly entry of an outsider. 
  
  A cop privy to the investigation claimed that the police narrowed its investigation after it procured call detail records (CDR) of Sheelu's mobile which was missing from the spot. “Based on suspicion, we rounded up Rahul who later confessed to have murdered Sheelu in a fit of rage and also killed Shivani who was the sole witness,” the SSP said. 
  
  Earlier, police had detained three   who were out of the house when the incident happened. The family, in its complaint to the police, had claimed that their daughters were killed in cold blood. An FIR under sections 302 (murder) and 201 (disappearance of evidence) was lodged at BB Nagar police station a day after the murder on February 1. Following the post-mortem report, police confirmed strangulation as the cause of death. 
  
  The bodies of the two young women were discovered in two rooms, with one bolted from outside. “The TV was playing at full volume and this was most likely done to drown the cries of help of our daughters,”  , father of one of the girls, said.
