PARACAS: In the unusual geographical setting of Pisco in Peru’s Ica region, where the desert and a coastal line sit alongside each other, giving us one of the driest places on Earth, the Dakar riders found themselves at sea trying to negotiate dunes that could pass of as giant waves. In the thick of action of the second stage (the Pisco loop stage), the talk in the bivouac at Pozo Santo was of the truck that was beached atop a dune, the wheels - usually taller than most bikes at the rally here – sunk deep in the unforgiving sand. If that could happen to the all-conquering trucks, imagine the state of the bikes and the cars.

 ALSO READ: 
 
 
 With the morning light only just about helping the riders, the early benefit was soon lost as the sun climbed over the desert; its white light making the terrain appear deceptively uniform all over. Like Hero’s   in the opening stage, on Sunday P Aravind’s Sherco TVS teammate, Adrien Metge too suffered a crash, the Frenchman breaking his leg in the process.
 
 ALSO READ: 
 
 
  reckoned he hadn’t seen dunes as high and deep as the ones the competitors encountered here. Yet, he was counting the opening days of the rally as two pretty good days in the office. Monday, however, lived up to its billing. With the third stage of the rally moving to a very dusty San Juan De Marcona, the rider’s trail throwing up clouds of sand and smoke that wouldn’t leave, Santosh he ran out of fuel 30 km short of finish. It was a fuel cap that wasn’t secured properly. As a result, he slipped down in the rankings, closing the Stage 3 at 101st position and overall at 57th. With nine more stages pending, he will aim to make up for as much lost time as possible.
 
 His other remaining teammate in the fray, Spanish debutant rider Oriol Mena, had no such worries though, riding those sand waves as if they were nothing. He overcame tough navigation to clock-in a fast time and finish the stage at the13th place.
 
 Stephane Peterhansel (Peugeot) led the cars, followed by Qatari   (Toyota).
 
