CHENNAI: After a delay of more than eight years, the six-laning of the stretch of   from   to Akkarai appears to be back on track, with a detailed project report currently in the works. 

 The highways department initially planned two grade separators at both ends of the 12km stretch with a width of 30m. In the new plan, however, officials have taken a relook at the feasibility of a grade separator at Thiruvanmiyur.
 
 “A bus depot and workshop,   and a number of commercial outlets and apartments in the area create space constraints. We are reconsidering the grade separator plan,” an official said.
 
 However, he said a grade separator at Akkarai would ease traffic congestion on ECR. “The plan is to ensure signal-free, smooth traffic to and from  , which is congested due to motorists heading to ECR from OMR and Tambaram,” the official said.
 
 Across the revenue villages of Thiruvanmiyur, Kottivakkam, Palavakkam, Neelankarai, Injambakkam, and Sholinganallur, the department has identified 8.935 hectares of land to be acquired from 737 landowners for widening on both sides of the four-lane stretch. A private consultancy is preparing the detailed project report, which should be ready by July.
 
 Officials said land acquisition caused delays in the project. Owing to the delay and surging land prices, officials estimate the land acquisition around Rs 500 crore.
 
 “The construction will cost will be a little more than Rs 150 crore,” the official said.
 
 Beyond the   stretch till Akkarai, it willremain a four-lane highway to Puducherry. It is under the maintenance of the Tamil Nadu Road Development Corporation.
 
 Vehicle use of the stretch that will be widened to six lanes has increased four-fold in seven years from 10,000 daily in 2011 to 40,000 today. Studies have shown that lack of space on the stretch, including for pedestrians, has led to several accidents.
 
 “Large-scale development along the road was not considered during planning,” said Dr Gitakrishnan Ramadurai, an associate professor in transportation engineering at Anna University. “Road widening, pedestrian crossings, and strict enforcement of traffic rules is key. Overspeeding is a major problem.”
 
 
