PATIALA: Amidst hectic lobbying to secure ministerial berths in the government, reports emerging from within the party suggest that the   might go for seven new faces in the state cabinet, keeping the total number of ministers at 16 instead of 18.

 Even as   hinted that he would have a full cabinet taking charge of the respective portfolios before the onset of the budget session, sources said the party would avoid an 18-minister cabinet to keep MLAs’ hopes for ministerial berths alive, which would help the party prepare for 2019 Lok Sabha elections.
 
 Sources said AICC president   recommended that the caste, religion and region balance should be maintained while choosing new ministers. Last March, the party chose five Jats, including the chief minister, along with two SCs, and one each from the minorities and Hindu sections. According to sources, having a caste, religion and region balance will help the party project a model that can be adopted in other states also and prop up prospects in the 2019 general elections.
 
 Despite the fact that backward classes in Punjab hold 23% vote share, no OBC MLA was included in the list of ministers last March. The issue was taken up by the party high command. During discussions, it emerged that the absence of OBC ministers in the state cabinet could affect the party’s prospects in the 2019 general elections.
 
 During a meeting with a cross-section of party MLAs from Punjab, Rahul Gandhi suggested that due representation be given to all sections of society while picking up new ministers so that the party could retain the majority of its vote bank in Punjab. Besides having more Hindu faces, the Congress is also likely to have young blood in the state cabinet.
 
 The party high command is said to be considering names of Dr Raj Kumar Verka, O P Soni, Rana, Gurmeet Sodhi, Rakesh Pandey, Vijay Inder Singla, Bharat Bhushan Ashu, Sangat Singh Gilzia, Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa and Amrinder Singh Raja Warring. 
 
 Party insiders said Capt Amarinder Singh will have a huge say in the decision making process as the Congress at the centre is going through a crisis after the   poll debacle. The high command plans to let Capt Amarinder Singh retain full control of state politics, so that he can propel the party to victory in 2019. A formal announcement for cabinet expansion is expected to be made in the last week of March or the first week of April.
 
 
