Vinod Kumar Bussi knew the lanes of Shadipur where he lived and owned a shop like the back of his hand. But on March 11 last year, the   patient left the house around noon and didn't return.

 
 His wife Phoola Rani and daughter Khushboo searched hospitals, NGOs and police stations. She distributed close to 30,000 pamphlets about her missing father but never got a good lead. "We asked for CCTV footage from a shop he was seen at but the owner refused. The police didn't bother and eventually stopped taking our calls," says Khushboo.
 
 Seeing a healthy, loving, intelligent family member or friend slip into dementia can be agonising but the bigger fear for caregivers is losing them if they step out and then forget their way back home. Many patients are kept under lock-and-key for lack of a better alternative. The Alzheimer's Association, US, website states that up to 60 per cent of all Alzheimer's patients will wander off at least once.
 
  
  
 NGOs and media reports estimate that there are four million Indians with various types of dementia such as Alzheimer's. Despite this huge number, just a handful of organisations and non-profit groups work with people with dementia.
 
 "In India, we don't have a single, centralised helpline for dementia. Only about 10 per cent of the lost patients are found because there's no data on them with the police, there's no protocol to follow if a patient goes missing. It's all up to the caregivers. They put up alerts on   and share on WhatsApp groups," says Sailesh Mishra, social entrepreneur and founder of Silver Innings, a community dedicated to the elderly with special focus on dementia care.
 
 Mishra's blog, Missing Senior Citizens Alert, has 57 reports filed since 2011, and most of the people listed are still missing.
 
 Early this month, Abraham Menezes, 76, suffering from Alzheimer's and diabetes, was reported missing from Yaari Road and found a day later in Cuffe Parade, Mumbai. His children, Johnny and Shirley alerted their local parish, and many parishoners shared Menezes' photo and contact details on Whatsapp groups. A policeman who saw this message spotted Menezes wandering aimlessly in Cuffe Parade the next day and alerted his family. While Menezes was lucky that his family immediately started looking for him, many patients are often abandoned by their loved ones.
 
 Himanshu Rath of   in Delhi gets three or four calls about missing senior citizens every day. Rath says the sheer number of people in cities makes it hard to find lost persons. "Even if we have a centralised helpline or rescue service, maintaining data on so many people will be difficult," says Rath.
 
 In the US, agencies like MedicAlert+SafeReturn act as a 24x7 emergency response service for individuals with dementia. Another programme for people with cognitive disorders, Project Lifesaver has rescued 3,402 people since 1999. In the west, caregivers use tracking devices and microchips that set off an alert when the wearer crosses a set physical boundary.
 
 Dr P K Sethi, a senior neurologist in Delhi, says there's an urgent need for a centralised dementia resource in India. "In the meanwhile, caregivers should sew a tag - with the name of the wearer, a contact number and information that the wearer has memory problems - on to every garment of the patient. Or, a small card with these details can be worn around the neck," says Sethi, chief neurologist at   and president of  .
 
 In the West, caregivers also use tracking devices and microchips that set off an alert when the wearer crosses a certain physical boundary.
 
 Dr Sushma Chawla, an Alzheimer's activist in Delhi, feels such devices may not always work. "When the patient is agitated, he/ she may remove the device or throw away identity documents," says Chawla. In Bussi's case, he left his phone and emptied his pockets before leaving home and losing his way.
 
 Making the police aware of the signs and kinds of dementia is a way forward, says Chawla. "Sensitising residents' welfare associations and encouraging them to keep data on all senior citizens in the locality, especially those with memory problems, can help find lost patients," she says.
 
