THANE: The municipal corporation is believed to have relaxed the fire safety norms for hospitals in the city after having a discussion with guardian minister  , members of the medical fraternity and fire officials about renewing their registration on Wednesday.

 The guardian minster, along with heath officer and fire officer, had a discussion for around two hours over the possibilities of relaxing the fire safety norms in order to make sure that the hospitals receive an NOC from the fire department and later are able to renew their registration.
 
 “Almost 70% of the hospitals in the city are facing registration problems as they did not have the change of user (COU) and change of activity (COA) due to which thet we were not getting an NOC from the fire department. But we are going to apply for a COU and have been told that the penalties will be waved off as the compliance will be based prospectively. Also to get the COU, one will have to do the architectural changes as per the requirements given. So it will become easier to get a no-objection certificate from the fire department,” said Dr. Dinesh Dinkar, president of   (IMA), Thane.
 
 The officials claimed that as these hospitals are over a decade or more old and did not have an OC and COU, they could not renew their registration on March 31 when it had expired. Also, the last renewal done by these people from the medical fraternity was three years ago.
 
 “A government resolution (GR) was passed in September 2017, which stated that an illegal structure can be regularised if they pay the compounding charges as these structures will be considered as compounded structures. So as the hospitals do not have OC, we would be carrying out this procedure,” said Shashikant Kale, chief fire officer, Thane.
 
 Almost 70% hospitals are facing registration problems as they did not have the change of user and change of activity due to which thet we were not getting an NOC from the fire department. But we are going to apply for a COU and have been told that the penalties will be waved off as the compliance will be based prospectively
 
 
