Surat: Director general of police Shivanand Jha on Thursday instructed senior cops of state police to ascertain if provisions of Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) can be invoked against bootleggers in liquor seizures worth Rs 20 lakh. Interestingly, the first-ever action against bootleggers under PMLA was taken by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in May 2017, subsequent to the investigation of police in south Gujarat.  ED had booked two notorious bootleggers from Union territory of Daman under PMLA and expedited the process to attach their properties. ED officials had raided Ramesh Patel alias Michael’s properties in Daman in May 2017 and started the process to attach his properties worth Rs 30 crore. Documents showed that Patel had purchased properties from the money earned through bootlegging activities. Investigation against Ramesh was first started by the office of additional director general of police, Surat range, Shamsher Singh, in October 2016 after seizure of a truck loaded with liquor in Barbodhan village of Olpad near Surat city. The liquor consignment sent by Ramesh’s close aide Sanat Patel was to be handed over to bootleggers Firoz Fruitwala and his brother Salim in the city. The accused had used papers of a private company to bring liquor consignment into Gujarat. Ramesh and his associates showed that the money was earned in a legal way. Police investigation against a wine shop owner of Daman Pramod Tandel revealed that he had made lot of money through bootlegging activities. ED sleuths collected strong evidence against Tandel, too, and started the process to attach his properties worth Rs 30 crore. The ED sleuths came on the scene after Gujarat police began to trail bootleggers in Daman after 23 people lost their lives in a hooch tragedy in Surat in August-September 2016. “Effective action against bootleggers will be a big deterrent. Organized crime can be prevented if authorities make it a loss making proposition. Criminals indulge in organized crime to make money. If money earned from crime is seized then crime is no more a profitable venture,” said Shamsher Singh, additional DGP, state crime record bureau. Singh is also chief executive officer of Cyber Suraksha Kavach.