TIRUPUR/NEW DELHI: P  , father of   Prabhu, the post-graduate medical student from   who was found dead at his New Delhi residence on Wednesday, said initial findings clearly suggested that it was a case of murder. “Sharath Prabhu had carrying a wound (reddish scar) in the neck, which indicates that someone forcibly injected potassium chloride by pressing his neck," he said

 "I was shocked to know that administering such injection could cause death within minutes."
 
 But the administration of the   was not properly cooperating with the investigation assuming that any suspicious development in Sharath’s death will affect the institution's image, he alleged.
 
 "We did not get adequate attention from the college and some authorities despite pressure exerted by the state government. It would not be easy for people who don’t have any support, if such incidents happen to them. However, three special police teams were formed, and higher police officials promised that they will conduct proper investigations and bring the culprits before the law,” he said.
 
 “It was my mistake that I allowed Sharath to pursue masters in Delhi. I could have handled any other loss, but not this," he lamented.
 
 Meanwhile, the body of Sharath reached his house in Tirupur late on Thursday night.
 
 “We plan to bury the body instead of cremating it. The final rites are planned for Friday morning at a burial ground on ABT Road,” said Sharath’s uncle P Jayagandhan.
 
 The Delhi police are probing if the death was caused by a high dose of insulin and other medicines. The possibility of foul play has not been ruled out. The body of the doctor was handed over to his family members on Thursday.
 
 Swabs from Sharath’s body were sent for a visceral analysis.
 
 Sharath was doing a post-graduation course in medicine that focused more on practical classes. “It is normal for him to keep vials of medicines. Two of them were injected into his body. The police found an empty vial of potassium chloride salt, which is lethal if injected into the body, and insulin from his room and near the basin where the body was found,” said a police source.
 
 
