AHMEDABAD: Gujarat high court on Thursday sought details from the   ( ) about the faculty members and fee structure for the MTech course in Cyber Security and whether   norms are being followed after a student filed an appeal before the division bench.

 The student, Sandip Munjyasara, pursuing master’s course in Cyber Security at DFSU has filed an appeal expressing grievance that there is only one permanent faculty member instead of four as declared two years ago when the first batch took admission. He has also raised the issue of collecting Rs 3 lakh as fee for the course though the university gets funding for teaching from the state government. He has contended that against such a hefty fee, the education imparted by the institute is not adequate.
 
 The student also took exception to the faculty members provided by a private company, with which the university had entered an   in June 2016. He has claimed that the company started functioning after the MoU was inked. The students are not happy with the quality of faculty provided by the private firm to the university.
 
 After a preliminary hearing, the bench of Justice M R Shah and Justice A Y Kogje commented that students have got a right to agitate their grievance about standard of education and amount of fees. If such a question is not maintainable, the court would have not entertained the issue with regard to the fee regulation law that the state government has introduced lately.
 
 The petitioner has submitted in his appeal that the students had raised the issue of non-availability of faculty members and exorbitant fees immediately after they experienced the problems in 2016. Representations were made before all authorities concerned including the   (UGC) that the functioning of MTech course is not as per the norms. The students were even assured at all the levels of improved education quality and increased number of faculty members. But nothing happened for a year.
 
 Munjyasara approached the HC last year, but a single-judge bench rejected his petition on the ground that after having obtained admission in the course voluntarily, he did not have the right to agitate the issues. Further hearing is posted in May.
 
