PATNA: Reminiscing the pride and culture of the state, 44 paintings made by 22 artists from the state would be exhibited at   on Tuesday in pursuance of a decision taken in the last annual conference of governors at New Delhi, said Sunil Kumar Pathak, public relation officer to governor Satya Pal Malik, on Monday. 

 The paintings made during the weeklong camp at Bihar Museum from May 6 to May 13 will, however, adorn the walls of Raj Bhavan permanently, Pathak said. Government officials and ministers are likely to visit the one-day exhibition.
 
 “The Delhi conference concluded that in order to highlight the key achievements and culture of the state, governors will organize social and cultural activities annually at the respective Raj Bhavans. The governor will inaugurate a painting exhibition on Tuesday to promote the pride, culture and heritage of Bihar,” Pathak said and added that state art, culture and youth department was looking after the arrangements for the exhibition.
 
 Each artist received Rs50,000 for their artworks from the department.
 
 Earlier, the 22 artists from different parts of the state made the 44 paintings on assigned themes of ‘pride, culture and freedom movement of Bihar’. Bihar Museum director Yusuf said: “An amalgamation of tradition and visual arts, these paintings were shifted to Raj Bhavan on Monday.”
 
 Artists worked on different themes like Chhath Puja, portraits of JP, Chanakya, Lord Buddha and Ramdhari Singh Dinkar, culture and heritage sites of the state. Talking about the artwork, one of the artists, Ajay Narayan, said, “The title of my artwork is ‘U-space’, in which I have displayed some of the famous monuments of Patna like Golghar by using acrylic colours on canvas.” He completed his studies in fine arts from Patna University in 2002.
 
 “I am specifically here for the camp. The state government is taking great initiatives for enhancing the cultural importance and redefining the state’s legacy,” said another artist from Champaran, Rajesh Srivastava.
 
 
