AHMEDABAD: Around 75,000 vehicles that were registered from October are still waiting for their registration smart card. In turn, the   are waiting to be dispatched by the   (RTO).

 On an average, 100 customers walk into the RTO to collect their   which should have been posted within a month of registration. A visitor will find at the RTO a cupboard full of registration smart cards stacked in boxes according to their series. 
 
 An employee of the contractor involved in making smart cards said that the old contractor just printed the smart cards but did not dispatch them. 
 
  
  
 “We have cards which have not been dispatched after September,” he said. “Whenever a customer walks in, we are forced to search at least eight boxes to find one smart card. For example, even to find a smartt card of HU series, around eight boxes have to be searched,” the   said. 
 
 He further said that at least two people are sitting rund-the-clock near the cupboard searching for a number plate.
 
 Tushar Shah, who brought a car in October, said that after getting the smart card, one has to go and get the data fed into the computer before the card can be used. “The authorities are not at all bothered and make no effort to dispatch them,” Shah said.
 
 A government employee said on the condition of anonymity that he had taken a loan for his new car from a nationalized bank. 
 
 “According to the rules, I was supposed to give a photocopy of the registration card within a month of the registration. When I failed to do so in time, he was asked to pay a penalty of Rs 2000 per month for delay in submission,” he said. 
 
 “However now that I have got the smart card, I have taken a photograph of the registered card with my signature. I will be submitting the card along with a photocopy in order to get the penalty waived off,” the government employee said.
 
 Transport Commissioner R Jadav said that due to the HSRP retrofitting, there had been a backlog. “We are now launching a drive to ensure that the smart cards are dispatched as soon as possible,” Jadav said.
 
 
