AHMEDABAD: Special   judge J K Pandya on Saturday completed hearing and reserved order till January 23 on application filed by two central intelligence bureau officials against issuance of summons against them in the 2004 Ishrat Jahan encounter case.

 A magisterial CBI court on December 19 issued summons to four IB officials, former special director   and his subordinates in Gujarat, Rajeev Wankhede, T S Mittal and M K Sinha. This happened after CBI intimated special magistrate D R Vyas that the central government had denied sanction to prosecute the four intelligence officials according to the provisions of Section 197 of the CrPC. For some four years, the court had not taken cognizance of the supplementary chargesheet because the investigation agency had said that it was waiting for prosecution sanction. Wankhede and Mittal approached a sessions court questioning the lower court’s taking cognizance of the chargesheet. Their advocate S V Raju cited various court orders and submitted that without prosecution sanction, court cannot take cognizance of the chargesheet. On the other hand, special prosecutor R C Kodekar told the court that the magistrate’s order was correct.Sources said that the lower court mentioned in its order that the investigation in this case was court-monitored. Senior counsel Raju submitted that this could not be a reason to discard the rejection of prosecution sanction in this case.
 
 Ishrat Jahan was shot dead along with three others – Javed Shaikh alias Pranesh Pillai, Amjad Ali Rana and Zeeshan Johar – on June 15, 2004 by Ahmedabad crime branch sleuths on the outskirts of the city. After their ‘encounter’, cops dubbed the deceased as   operatives who were on their mission to kill then chief minister  . Following CBI probe, Gujarat police officers P P Pandey, D G Vanzara, G L Singhal, N K Amin and Tarun Barot along with a couple of others were booked and arrested for criminal conspiracy, abduction, illegal detention and murder of the four.
 
 
