NAGPUR: The dalit community’s protests over Monday’s violence in Pune spilled over to the city a day later, with the security forces gearing up to maintain law and order. 

 Clashes between dalit groups and supporters of right-wing Hindu organisations during the 200th anniversary celebrations of the   battle in Pune district left a man dead on Monday.
 
 Former MP Prakash Ambedkar of BRP-BMS has called for a daylong bandh across the state with the city unit of AAP supporting the move on Wednesday. Accordingly, security agencies are keeping an eye across the city, especially the sensitive pockets where stray incidents of violence have been reported.
 
 There was unconfirmed reports of burning of CM Devendra Fadnavis’s effigy in north Nagpur. 
 
 Members of different dalit organizations from the city protested at   and blocked the road for at least an hour throwing traffic out of gear. Soon, reports of other incidents too started trickling. The protesters resorted to stone-pelting and burning of tyres at different places.
 
 Tension prevailed at Samvidhan Square as the protesters continuously moved from one place to the other while the police tried to control the angry mob. The Quick Response Team (QRT), along with Riot Control Police (RCP), was soon summoned to the spot. The mob protested in the middle of the busy square for around 20 minutes.
 
 
  
 
 The dalit community’s protests over Monday’s violence in Pune spilled over to the city a day later, with the security forces gearing up to maintain law and order. 
 
 According to reports, a state transport bus was damaged at Juni Kamptee. A stone-pelting incident was reported wherein autorickshaw was targeted near old VCA stadium at Sadar. An ‘Aapli bus’ was targeted by stone-pelters at Kadbi chowk. Some shops were targeted at Rani Durgawati Chowk in north Nagpur.
 
 Tyre-burning incidents were reported at Indora Chowk and near  . Other places such as Unthkhana, Rameshwari, Indora, and certain pockets of south Nagpur too remained tensed, but the police remained alert. 
 
 At Samvidhan Chowk earlier, NCP MLC Prakash Gajbhiye joined the agitation wearing a black badge. He demanded a thorough probe by the state CID to ensure that the communal forces are being brought to book. 
 
 Lokesh Taksande, one of the protestors, said, “I had gone to Bhima-Koregaon with my family on December 1, but there was no proper police bandobast. Our four-wheeler was targeted by stone-pelters. The entire incident seemed pre-planned.”
 
 Joint CP Shivaji Bodke said the QRT and RCP teams have been deployed at sensitive places. “We are also keeping a close eye on anti-social elements and will conduct a drive against history-sheeters known for triggering mischief,” he said. 
 
 The QRT teams will be deployed at all the sensitive areas in city such as Rameshwari, Indora, Jaripatka, Hudkeshwar, Barakholi, Pachpaoli, and Kamptee among others. Police stations have also been kept on high alert.
 
 SP (rural) Shailesh Balkawde said, “Vigilance will be kept on national highways 6 and 7, along with other sensitive places such as bus stops and government offices. Extra police force has also been provided to avoid any incidents.”
 
 
