BATHINDA: Several school children in   had to be hospitalized after they took ill and complained of rashes, uneasiness and fever, following the administration of the measles rubella (MR) vaccination on Monday.

 These cases, reported a day after the death of a local school girl on Saturday, has sent the local health authorities into a tizzy. The ill-preparedness of the district hospital to deal with such eventualities came to the fore when many children were brought in quick succession.
 
 With over a dozen students admitted post-vaccination, two students with intravenous drips were put on a single bed due to lack of facilities. Out-oforder air coolers further added to the discomfort of the sick children and their parents.
 
 Though most of the children who arrived at the hospital were vaccinated on Monday, two children vaccinated on May 1 and 4 respectively, also needed hospitalization on Monday.
 
 Earlier, six-year-old Gurnoor Kaur of Jai Singh Wala village and a student of Adarsh School, Bathinda had died on May 5. She had been vaccinated on May 4. The health authorities had claimed that she had died of gastroenteritis and not due to the MR vaccination.
 
 Navjot Kaur (15), a Class X student of Baba Farid School, was made to share bed with Prince (12), a Class VII student of Santa Public School in the hospital’s children ward. Sixyear-old Rajbir Singh of a play way school in the Canal Colony was brought to the hospital with low sugar levels by the Lal Singh Basti dispensary staff. He was later referred to a private hospital where the doctors attending to him said he was recovering well.
 
 Another student of Baba Farid School, 15-year-old Neha complained of uneasiness after vaccination and was taken to the hospital. Her mother Kiran said, “Initially we were scared, but now that she has recovered, we are taking her home.” Seven-year-old Harsh, a Class III student at the Government Primary School, Bhucho, was brought to the hospital with rashes on his body. His mother, who expressed dissatisfaction over the hospital facilities said, Harsh had been vaccinated on May 1but rashes appeared on Sunday.
 
 Dr Kundan Kumar, who attended to these children, said, “All the children who have come here had complained of minor problems such as uneasiness and fever. We are taking care of them. One student was shifted to a private hospital but he is fine now”.
 
 When contacted, Bathinda civil surgeon Dr Hari Narain Singh denied lack of facilities at the hospital. He said, “Suddenly many children reached the hospital and for some time the hospital staff got nervous. But all the children were well taken care of. Cooler and air conditioner were operational in the ward”.
 
