Ludhiana: Civic officials on Wednesday handed over cheques of Rs 4 lakh each to family members of nine firemen and a sanitary inspector Laxman Dravid who died in the fire and building collapse incident on 20 November last year. One-day salary of all MC employees up to class III was deducted by MC, and an amount worth Rs 40 lakh was collected, which was distributed equally among 10 beneficiaries. The officials also distributed cheques totalling Rs 22.20 lakh as part of pending ex-gratia and other pending dues to three firemen who were declared dead later on. 

 Family members with misty eyes received cheques from Congress MP Ravneet Bittu, who showed his sympathy with them. In this incident, nine firemen Rajinder Sharma, Shimaun Gill, Rajkumar, Rajan, Puran Singh, Vishal Kumar, Manohar Lal, Manpreet Singh, and Sukhdev had died.
 
 Meanwhile, family members raised the issue of not getting pension so far, and officials assured them of starting their pension shortly. They rued it had become difficult for them to manage their daily chores in the absence of finances. One of the family members said they were dependent on their relatives and savings to manage things, because he did not get a job so far, and his sister was also studying. He said they had requested officials to get things streamlined so that they could have some financial security.
 
 Another family member said that after the death of his father, his elder brother was doing a private job, and preparing for Civil Services examination at the same time. Thus, there was financial crisis in the family. “The pension is yet to be started, and it could have given us partial support,” he said. Officials said they had forwarded the case to the government, but there was procedural delay. However, they would again ask senior officials to at least start the pension of the beneficiaries. MC commissioner Jaskiran Singh said: “We had sent a resolution to offer jobs to the kin of firemen. Though it is still pending with the government, we will take it up again. The dues are cleared now, and pension too will start shortly.”
 
 The state government had announced an ex-gratia of Rs 10 lakh for each kin of firemen who had died in the incident, out of which Rs 5 lakh was supposed to come from the state government, and the other Rs 5 lakh from MC. Six firemen got their cheques earlier, but since three firemen — Mahohar Lal, Sukhdev, and Manpreet — were declared dead late by the district administration, even their ex-gratia amount was released later. They got Rs 5 lakh from the state government, but MC had not paid its share earlier. So, MC officials handed over Rs 5 lakh each plus other pending dues to family members of the three firemen on Wednesday. 
 
 
