

 HYDERABAD: At a time when school fee hike has become a nightmare for parents, a survey shows 80% parents in Hyderabad and the districts feel fees have increased by more than 10% in the new academic session.
 
 While parents are clueless about the possible reason for this excessive fee hike, the government’s silence on the contentious issue has become a question mark.
 
 
 In the survey conducted by  , a community social media platform, residents were asked how much percentage was their child’s school fee hike from last year to this year.
 
 About 60% said the increase was between 10.01% and 20%. While 20% said the increase was more than 20%.
 
 “A chain of private school mafia is behind it. We have submitted petitions to the government long ago, but everything has remained on paper and nothing has been implemented,” said 38-yearold Aravinda  , a mother two and the executive member of Hyderabad School Parents’ Association.
 
 Other than Hyderabad and rest of  , many private schools across the country have increased their fees. Around 7,351 people from different states have blamed either the lack of regulations on school fee, or the lack of enforcement by district officers, or the schools’ disregard of government regulations and advisories.
 
 When the Sixth Pay Commission was implemented in 2008, private schools also had to increase teachers’ salary. Many schools had cited lack of funds for the fee increase, but according to the experts, it was clearly not the case.
 
 Even today, schools are unable to give any valid reason behind fee hikes of over 10%. Most parents feel fee should only be hiked according to the inflation rate.
 
 Talking about the lack of centralized information about schools in Telangana, the chairman of   committee, retired professor Tirupathi Rao said, “The central government can issue some guidelines for private schools, at least those under the  , but the rest has to done by the state governments by establishing transparency and ensuring that the schools’ expenditure matches with the fees they are charging.”
 
