CHANDIGARH: Agreeing with Haryana chief minister   on the need to stop wasteful flow of Ravi water into Pakistan, Punjab chief minister Amarinder Singh on Monday sought careful assessment of the matter and emphasized on similar efforts to prevent wastage of   water.

 Responding to Khattar’s letter on May 7 on Ravi water flowing into Pakistan, Amarinder said, “We would surely like to check all wasteful flow of river waters and secure every drop of it for our farmers, but these have to be carefully assessed.”
 
 At the same time, Amarinder ruled out the need for any separate interaction between Punjab and Haryana or for engaging Bhakra Beas Management Board (BBMB) to undertake feasibility studies on the proposed second Ravi-Beas link as the matter is under consideration of the high-powered committee set up by the Union government for implementation of national projects.
 
 The Punjab chief minister, in his letter to his Haryana counterpart, said 50% out of 75% Yamuna water received in the month of July, August and September goes waste.
 
 He said, “In Punjab, we are of the considered opinion to fully secure and utilize the water of Ravi as also of other two rivers — Sutlej and Beas — for our farmers, without letting it go waste in any manner.”
 
 Amarinder also said Punjab was certainly facing unprecedented water crisis, with its water needs for agriculture assessed at 52 million acre feet (MAF) of which river water contribution is hardly 27%. He said this was forcing farmers to depend on groundwater, which had depleted alarmingly.
 
 The CM pointed out that the usable discharge of Ravi river had been determined at Madhopur rim station, and the discharge flowing in tributaries (Ujh, Bein, Basantar, Jallala and Tarnah) which join Ravi downstream Madhopur headworks was uncertain and unreliable. A storage dam on Ujh rivulet had been planned by Jammu and Kashmir government in their territory up-stream of an existing barrage on the said rivulet, he added.
 
 Amarinder said the high-powered steering committee for implementation of national projects considered the matter in its meeting on March 3 last year and a team comprising officers of central water commission and Punjab irrigation department was constituted to visit the site of the proposed second Ravi-Beas link. The team has not yet suggested any technically viable option which can be finalized and apparently, construction of water reservoirs in Punjab for Ravi waters was not technically possible, he added.
 
 
