NEW DELHI: By end of this year, Amritsar will probably be the only airport secured by   where flyers’ handbags will continue to be stamped “security checked”.

 Central Industrial Security Force, which provides security at 59 airports across India except those in Jammu and Kashmir, has since last April discontinued this practice at 37 airports. Officials said plans are afoot to add 21 more airports to that list this year.
 
 “Amritsar is the only airport under our cover where the security requirement is such that we can’t end handbag stamping,” a senior CISF official said. Most of the hijackings in India have had an Amritsar connect and that airport has some special security considerations, said sources.
 
 The airports at Jammu and Srinagar are the most hyper sensitive ones in the country but they do not have the CISF security cover. Also, handbags are not allowed on flights out of these airports.
 
 Apart from ending handbag stamping at all airports except Amritsar, the para military force has drawn up some other passenger-friendly moves. “We are aiming that checking documents at departure gates should not take more than 30 seconds per passenger. Also, when a flyer is at the yellow line for security check (the next in line to be checked), he or she should clear the process in 90 seconds. We are working to ensure speedier airport processes,” said M A  , CISF’s additional DG (airport sector), at the paramilitary force’s annual press meet here Friday.
 
 Since Indian airports have not seen infra expansion despite massive growth in air travel, serpentine queues have become a regular feature during peak hours. CISF’s move to speed up the checks could help cut the waiting time.
 
 Ganapathy said the agency has worked out two new models for the upcoming small and UDAN airports to keep costs in control while providing foolproof security. “It is often said our current model is too manpower-centric. We have come up with an aircraft-centric model where CISF will provide security from two hours before the flight departure. A while after the flight takes off, either skeletal CISF staff will remain at small and UDAN airports or other security men will take over,” the ADG said.
 
 The other model involves “right sizing” manpower requirement which will see force required falling by 3,000 personnel and thereby wiping out vacancies.
 
 Cost of CISF deployment at airports has become a major issue. For instance, Ganapathy said the   has to clear the overdues of Rs737 crore to the CISF despite paying Rs236 crore in last one year,” said an official. Airports say the passenger security fee collected from flyers is not enough to pay for CISF deployment. The security agency wants PSF accounts checked to verify this claim.
 
 CISF also wants body scanners installed at the airports to “improve the efficiency of screeners”.
 
 
