LUCKNOW: The city is home to more than 3,000 stray cattle which obstruct traffic and litter garbage. 

 The primary cause for the menace is the presence of over 2,000 dairies within the city limits. The drives carried out by   in the past have proved ineffective and both dairies and their cattle continue to remain a civic menace. 
 
 However, there is a ray of hope as the high court has come down heavily on the issue. It has directed principal secretary, urban development, to apprise it by April 24 about the measures taken to control the menace of stray animals and shifting of dairies to the outskirts as per a government order of 1998.
 
 As per 1998 GO,   should build cattle colonies on the outskirts. In 2013, the Allahabad high court had directed LMC to shift dairies to the outskirts on land provided by   and  . But the orders have not been implemented despite five years. 
 
 In the past, LMC tried to rein in the problem with cattle catching drives and steep penalty on dairy owners. But owing to inconsitency such efforts failed to yield results. According to LMC assessment, the city has over 3,000 stray cattle and 60,000 stray dogs. 
 
 LMC control room gets about 100-150 complaints daily about menace of stray animals but its veterinary staff takes no action. The corporation mostly responds to complaints regarding dead animals and sends its staff to remove the carcasses. 
 
 Vijay Gupta, a resident of Shivajipuram in Indiranagar, said, "Despite repeated complaints to remove dairies from my colony, LMC has not removed them and gives excuses that it has no shed to keep the stray cattle or LDA has yet not given land to it."
 
 Anurag Tripathi of Vikasnagar said that whenever he registers online complaint against dairies, the team doesn't remove them but shows the problem resolved on the portal. Anubhav, a resident of  , said a dead dog kept lying in his colony for two days but no one from LMC came to pick the carcass despite several complaints. 
 
 Responding to TOI query on the issue, LMC veterinary officer Dr   said, "We caught around stray 4,300 animals last month and the drive is continuing. In March, we have imposed a total penalty of over Rs 11 lakh on illegal dairy owners and taken an affidavit from them that they will not return to the city. If they do so, we can sue them for contempt of court. More than 60% dairy owners have shifted to the outskirts. The penalty is 10 times higher than the original fine, so most of the dairy owners are complying with the orders."
 
  
  
 
