In the latest episode of  , Kartik rescues Aryan (Shubham) and slaps him. This leaves everyone shocked. Kartik says he has the right, as Shubham's elder brother, to make him realize his mistake.

 Naira and Kartik try to help Shubham and take his mind off suicide. Kartik tells him that they cannot see another family member committing the crime and it won't even solve any of his problems either. Manish and Suwarna are happy to see Shubham's life out of danger and are proud of Kartik and Naira for handling the situation well.
 
 Suwarna wants the family to fix Shubham and Suhana's marriage but Naira suggests they should wait for some time. 
 
 Suhana inquires about Shubham's health from Naira. Suwarna takes the phone from her and tells her that they will soon come over and plan their wedding. She tells her that they are ready to fulfill Shubham's demands. Suhana is happy to hear this and informs Rahul about the success of their plan.
 
 Seeing the situation at home, Naira finds it difficult to tell Kartik about her pregnancy reports. She recalls the doctor's words and decides to meditate. Kartik looks at her and asks her what's wrong. Just when Naira is about to confide in him, Kartik gets a call from work and leaves.
 
 Suwarna asks Dadi to meet Suhana and her family. Dadi instead worries about the news of Kirti's pregnancy and wants it to remain a secret for some time. While Kartik signs work-related documents, he begins to think about Naira.
 
 The Singhanias come to visit the Goenkas. When Kirti enters, Dadi prays to wards off evil spirits.
 
 She takes Kirti aside and asks her if she will be keeping a fast. Kirti is in a dilemma and says that she doesn't want to, keeping her health in mind. Dadi tells her not to worry and asks Naira to take good care of her. Baisa hears this and tells Dadi not to meddle. Dadi's friends arrive at the house for celebrations.
 
 Kartik brings fruits for Kirti. Naksh is happy to see Kartik taking good care of his sister and tells him he will do the same when his nephew or niece arrives. They all smile. Shubham joins in but he looks quite upset. He says that Suhana isn't talking to him. Naira calls Suhana and tells her that Shubham wanted to apologize.
 
 Kirti slips on the stairs but she is okay. The ladies congratulate Kirti and ask Naira to start a family soon. Dadi scolds Naira for not taking care of Kirti. The ladies ask Dadi if Naira is delaying her pregnancy but Dadi refutes the claims. 
 
 Dadi and Kartik begins to look for Naira and find her taking pills. 
 
