Tuesday was a big day for music composer Arindom Chatterjee.   had resumed online sale of tickets for World Cup   and Arindom didn’t want to miss this window of opportunity. He failed to book berths for the first and second semi-finals despite spending almost the whole day glued to his laptop. On the bright side, he already has tickets to three matches and will be travelling to Saint Petersburg on June 26.

  
 Of course, Arindom is not alone. Many football-crazy   have their bags packed and are waiting for June 14, when the soccer extravaganza kicks off in Russia. Arindom, who is taking his mother to the Argentina-Nigeria match on June 26, told us, “I’m a huge fan of Argentina and can’t get over the team’s defeat in the World Cup 2014 finals. I also have tickets to the quarter-finals on July 6 and 7, and hope to get seats at the semi-finals. Ticket sales will resume shortly and I’m keeping an eye out,” said Arindom, who is leaving Kolkata on June 24 and will return on July 18. 
 
 Arindom’s air tickets are already done and a large group of friends is accompanying him on the trip.
 Musician Upal Sengupta, a football fanatic and a die-hard Brazil fan, is excited about the Fan ID he has already received. He will be attending the Brazil vs Serbia match in Moscow on June 27 and another knockout match on July 1. He is leaving for Moscow on June 24 and will be back on July 2. “It was hard to accept Brazil’s defeat in the last World Cup. They lost to Germany, but this year the team looks good. The squad has Willian, Neymar, Thiago, Marcelo and many other stars. Neymar is the biggest star of Brazilian football at the moment and though his injury has made news, I am hopeful that he will be in peak form. Also, I hope to see   in action and will pray that   plays the knockout on July 1,” he said. Upal will go with several friends, including Jayjit Lahiri, the lyricist of Tomae dilam and other famous songs.
 Even Tollywood’s first family — Prosenjit Chatterjee, Arpita and Trishanjit — will also be travelling to Saint Petersburg and Moscow for an exciting vacation.
 
  
  “Trishanjit is a fan of Lionel Messi and wants to grow up to be a soccer star. He has already been selected in his school’s football team. Both Bumbada (Prosenjit) and Trishanjit (Mishuk) are likely to travel on June 20 and I will join them in Saint Petersburg three days later. It’s the first time that only the three of us are travelling abroad and I am looking forward to the family holiday,” said Arpita.
 The excitement over the World Cup is all the more evident as many football buffs are working their holidays around the biggest sporting event. Anirban Dutta, a lawyer, who is leaving on the night of July 4 and will travel to Moscow and Sochi for the quarter-finals, said he had managed to buy the tickets online sometime in December. “I tried to purchase tickets for the semi-finals on Tuesday, but the website was clogged because of the demand worldwide. I will try again, as my vacation continues till July 17,” he said.
 Chandan Biswas, a businessman, who was once a part of the Bangla band, Chandrabindoo, will be boarding the Delhi-Moscow flight on June 26. A fan of Brazil, he said he couldn’t have missed out on the Brazil-Serbia match on June 27. “On the cards is another match before we return on July 2. Thankfully, I didn’t have to take the trouble of purchasing the tickets myself. My friends, who are going with me, did everything,” he said.
 
 
  
 Ticket sales had started in September 2017 and considering the overwhelming demand from fans the world over, many in the city had to play the waiting game. The sale process involves everything from random lotteries to buying tickets in real time, which makes it more of a game of chance. But Kolkatans managed to dribble along with just one goal in mind — Russia. After all, the country is hosting an extravaganza that happens once in four years.
 
 
 
 
