PUNE: A resident doctor was assaulted with a scalpel and a few paramedics were roughed up by relatives of 26 -year-old man after he suddenly died following a cardiac arrest at D Y   in Pimpri late on Friday evening.

 The resident doctor suffered a deep cut on his face and some blunt injuries in the assault. The hospital management on Saturday filed a complaint with the Pimpri police.
 
 The doctors demanded strict implementation of the Medicare Act, 2010. It protects them from physical assaults and intimidation by patients’ relatives. These acts are non-bailable offences under the act.
 
  
  
 
 A doctor of the hospital said, “After we broke the news of patient’s demise, the relatives burst into rage and barged into the ICU (intensive care unit). One of them took a scalpel and slashed it on a resident doctor’s face claiming negligence. Others joined him.”
 
 Another resident doctor said, “A local politician claiming to be a policeman hoodwinked the security and entered the ICU, where quite a few critical patients were undergoing treatment. He arrived with some supporters within 10 minutes of the event.”
 
 After entering the ICU, they proceeded to assault the men and women doctorsl. “Fearing for their life, these doctors are wondering if they should even go to the police,” the doctor said, requesting anonymity.
 
 The securitymen of the hospital failed to prove their effectiveness during the assault. “The bouncers and security guards employed by the hospital stood back and did nothing. They have been identified and would be dismissed,” said another doctor.
 
 There was some communication gap between the hospital’s senior and middle management. “The middle management did not inform seniors about the scenario. They were afraid of being found out for hiring a bad security agency,” said another doctor.
 
 The hospital’s dean,  , said, “We always stand by the side of our resident doctors and ensure that their protection is never compromised. We have filed an FIR with the police in this regard.”
 
  condemned the attack and extended unflinching support to the resident doctors (post graduate medical students) of D Y Patil Medical College and Hospital.
 
 Inspector Masaji Kale of Pimpri police station said, “A medical practitioner,   (29), lodged a complaint. Two unidentified men and two unidentified women have been booked for beating up the doctors.”
 
 He said a case had been registered against the suspects under sections 323 (voluntary causing hurt), 506 (criminal intimation), 34 (common intention) of IPC and provisions of Maharashtra Medical Practitioners’ Act.
 
 He said, “The suspects are relatives Chetak Gaikwad. He died in the hospital around 8.45pm. The family members charged at the doctors claiming that the patient died because of medical negligence.” 
 
 
