CHANDIGARH: Municipal commissioner Jitender Yadav differed from mayor Davesh Moudgil on the hike in the paid parking charges in the general house meeting of the municipal corporation (MC) on Monday, announcing the revised rates will come into force from April 1 if the company paid its dues.

 From April 1, the rate for four-wheelers are to be hiked from Rs 10 to Rs 20 for the first four hours and Rs 20 for subsequent two hours. For two-wheelers, the MC has proposed to increase the rate from Rs 5 to Rs 10 for the first four hours and Rs 10 for subsequent two hours.
  
  
 Yadav said if the company managing the paid parking lots (Arya Infotec Limited ) paid Rs 4.77 crore in the stipulated time period, the revised charges will be implemented from April 1 — a stand stark opposite to that of the mayor.
 
 The statement led the municipal councillors to ask the mayor about his refusal to any enhancement as the parking lots were in a mess. Moudgil answered that he “still stands by his statement”. “Even if the company deposits the dues, the matter will come for discussion and approval of the general house and only then any decision over the hike will be taken,” Moudgil said.
 
 However, the municipal commissioner, explained that the MC was bound with the terms and conditions of the agreement passed by the general house. “We can’t go beyond the agreement at any cost. We have given time to the company to pay the outstanding dues. If they will pay the amount, charges will be increased.” he said.
 
 On the other hand, almost all the municipal councillors opposed any move to hike the charges, terming that all the paid parking lots were in a bad condition and yet to be made smart.
 
 Devinder Singh Babla, Congress municipal councillor and leader of opposition in the house, said, “There is no coordination between the municipal commissioner and the mayor. The commissioner is giving one statement and the mayor an opposite one and that too in front of him. This has happened for the first time in the history of the MC.” “The paid parking rates hike will affect thousands of commuters. We will not accept any enhancement of parking charges. If it happens, we will oppose it because commuters are not getting any facility in the parking lots,” he said.
 
 Nominated municipal councillor Charanjeev Singh told TOI, “There is no need to enhance the charges because commuters are not getting any facility. The charges have been increased just four months back. We will oppose any move to increase the rates.”
 
 BJP municipal councillor   said, “There is no smart parking in the city and things are not being run as per the terms and conditions of the agreement. The company is violating the norms. There is no need to increase the charges.”
 
 
