KOLKATA: Had they had time, they could have written a book on their lifetime experience: tunnelling for the East West Metro’s tracks, which passed under the Hooghly riverbed and then, congested pockets of Kolkata, which housed dilapidated buildings, finally ending the journey at Esplanade. The underground drilling and construction of the tunnels were not only an arduous task, but also had to be flawless.

 
 For the men in orange, the hurdles were many as they steered the twin tunnel-boring machines (TBMs), Prerna and Rachna, from under   to Esplanade, where the journey ended on April 5. Ironically, tunnelling wasn’t the biggest challenge for the 1,800-odd Afcons’ engineers, supervisors and foremen. Keeping the mean machines in working condition for five long years was. As they were left idle at Howrah Maidan, even as a debate raged on over changing the Metro’s alignment. “The TBMs were procured in 2011, but put to use only in 2016. Our biggest challenge was to keep them in working condition all through the period,” said  , project manager of   Infrastructure, which in 2010 in a 50:50 joint venture partnership with Transtonnelstory,  , bagged the Rs 938-crore contract to build the twin tunnels below the Hooghly riverbed to connect Howrah and Kolkata, as part of the   Project.
 
 Before the tunnel borers were brought out to work, came assembling of the machines. The team had to ensure that no defective part went underground ahead of the fisrt borer’s launch on April 20, 2016. Every flawed spare was replaced with a new one, which came from Germany or Spain. “It was a pressure cooker-like situation. We had to maintain the pace of progress and keep the TBMs in perfect shape,” said Kaul, pointing out Gopal Dey and Rallabhandi Sreenivas arranged for spares from overseas and kept the TBMs in perfect condition.
 
 Around 300 people were mobilized underground as   started mining. Afcons hired workers from across the country, who underwent rigorous training. It was A K Dubey’s job to keep the workforce happy, ensuring they got incentives for working underground in harsh conditions. “We couldn’t have the workers make a single mistake or there would be catastrophe inside the tunnel,” said Dubey, A crew of 25 engineers were engaged inside the boring machines. Among them was Durgesh Tiwary, who displayed excellent TBM speedcontrol, especially when water had gushed through at the time of passing Colvin Court, the 90-year-old railway quarters near Howrah station. The project encountered steep curves, some of the sharpest in the country, and it was South African Paul Berral, the 57-year-old Afcons’ tunnel construction manager, who helped maintain control so the tunnel boring machines didn’t go on a tangent. S N Kunwar, along with his team, meticulously mitigated dilapidated buildings at Dalhausie.
 
 Disposal of muck was another uphill task. There were people like, M K Singh and Manu Goel, who coordinated with the police so that Afcons’ truckloads of muck passed through the congested Howrah streets.
 
 The cost for the underground phase-1, which was initially pegged at Rs 4,875-crore, later rose to Rs 8,575 crore, owing to several reasons, one of them being the never-ending debate over route alignment.
 
