JAIPUR: A day after Jaipur police busted a betting racket on a tip off by  , the senior authorities of   took a stern action against station house officers (SHOs) of three police stations including  ,   and   on Monday evening. All of them were sent to lines by the commissioner of police following laxity in performing their duties.

 
 Acting on a tip-off by the Rajasthan ATS, Jaipur police had busted two gangs involved in placing bets on the Sunday matches. Police had seized over 100 mobile phones, five laptops, two cars, and cash worth Rs. 87,000 from the arrested accused. The arrested included Vikas Khandelwal a known kingpin to Ajmer police in syndicated racket of betting. Vikas is a resident of Ajmer and has a history of arrests in betting related cases. Most importantly the inspector of ATS had given the specific location where the racket was going on to the police stations concerned including –Ashok Nagar, Vaishali Nagar and Mansarover.
 
 According to sources, the Jaipur police commissionerate officials were also been scolded by the senior authorities of police headquarters in their dilly dally approach towards betting in these areas from where these persons were booked for Rajasthan ( ) Ordinance. Earlier, Jaipur police also had to face ire of senior officers for not being able to handle the SC/ST protest properly on April 1.
 
 Even in 2013 when Delhi police crime branch and Mumbai police had busted betting rackets from Jaipur and Sujangarh, they had specifically mentioned that Jaipur police was turning a blind eye over betting.
 
 “Though there is no connivance of the SHOs concerned, they should have been alarmed and aware of the organised crime going on in their respective areas. Considering it to be negligence I have sent them to lines,” said Sanjay Agarwal, commissioner of police, Jaipur on Monday.
 
 The SHOs included Dharmendra Sharma of Ashok Nagar, Surendra Ranawat of Mansarover and Bhopal Singh Bhati of Vaishali Nagar. “Sunil Kumar was asked to take charge at Mansarover, Hemendra Sharma at Ashok Nagar and Rajendra Rawat at Vaishali Nagar,” said a senior officer.
 
