KOCHI: The high court, on Wednesday, completed the hearing on actor  's petition in actor rape case for obtaining a copy of the pen drive containing the   of the incident. The court has now reserved the case for pronouncing its judgment. 

 At the hearing on Wednesday, Dileep's counsel argued that the visuals are not being sought to be given to the accused but to his lawyers. Privacy of the survivor will be safeguarded by the lawyers, who are officers of the court. It is suspected that the contents of the pen drive have been edited. In  's case, recordings were given to the accused as per his request. Is it because police do not believe the defence lawyers that the contents of the pen drive are not being handed over, the counsel asked.
 
 Prosecution opposed the arguments advanced by Dileep's counsel and told the court that no editing was carried out in the contents of the pen drive. The defence lawyers had seen the video recording eight times. The claim that a woman's voice was heard in the recording is wrong. It is part of the attempt of the defence to delay the trial. Rights of the survivor have to be given preference at the trial. When the safety of the victim is taken into consideration, there are limitations in handing over the contents of the pen drive, prosecution argued.
 
 Prosecution has also contended at the high court that the trial can be conducted and the guilt of the accused can be established even without relying on the contents of the pen drive. Only the   and other available evidence are enough to convict the accused, including actor Dileep, prosecution had submitted to the court.
 
 Through the petition, Dileep has alleged that he is entitled to receive a copy of the pen drive as it is one of the main items of evidence relied on by the prosecution to prove its case against him and the other accused.
 
 However, prosecution had opposed the demand and stated that if a copy of the video is handed over to the accused, it would get leaked out. Derogatory content about the survivor was spread several times earlier, prosecution had pointed out.
 
 It was also argued by the prosecution that providing copy of the video recording to Dileep won't be legally correct. It is to obtain the recording that the quotation was given by Dileep and providing a copy of the video to him would result in violation of fundamental rights of the survivor, prosecution had told the court.
 
