Chennai: Tamil Nadu deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam on Saturday likened new political entrants in Tamil Nadu – read actors Kamal Haasan and Rajinikanth – to fireworks that disappear into thin air after a flash. People would see through their camouflage, he said while launching a new party organ in the name of late chief minister J Jayalalithaa and unveiling a life-size statue of her to mark her 70th birthday.

 Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami, who shared honours with OPS, trained his guns on arch rival V K Sasikala and her family, but steered clear of attacking Rajini and Kamal.
 
 Reflecting the dichotomous power structure in the party, EPS and OPS held a remote each to unveil Jayalalithaa’s statue.
 
 The function began behind schedule as chief minister reached the party office late. It was already swarmed by state ministers, MPs, MLAs and senior leaders. Sculptor Prasad, who made the statue, was honoured with a gold ring on the occasion.
 
 Panneerselvam said traitors were trying to break the party and the government, but they would not be successful. “No one can even dream of dividing us. We are ready to face any election any time,” said Panneerselvam, reacting to rebel leader and RK Nagar MLA T T V Dhinakaran’s vow to bring down the government.
 
 He said new parties, which are rising on the horizon, and the people behind them have camouflaged themselves with makeup and are pretending to be good people. “All these will disappear. As Amma said, this party will remain for 100 more years and serve the people. Our party symbol, two leaves, represent MGR and Jayalalithaa,” said Panneerselvam. “Already parties, which fought with us have become deflated balloons,” he said. Panneerselvam called upon cadres to support the new party organ by subscribing to it.
 
 Recalling Jayalalithaa’s handling of party affairs, Palaniswami said, “The party has faced several hurdles. There were many attempts to bring down the government after Amma’s (Jayalalithaa) death. But the dreams of our adversaries to bring down the government and capture power will never come true”. When she was alive, people looked for announcements from her under rule 110 of the assembly, because they always reshaped the lives of common people, he said.
 
 Palaniswami’s speech evoked little response from the cadres. Most of them were lost in the appearance of Jayalalithaa’s statue, trying to figure out who it resembled.
 
 
