MUMBAI: In a relief for   leader  , the   on Monday condoned a delay of over a year in a special leave petition filed by the former state deputy chief minister after   dismissed his habeas corpus plea and issued notice to the   . 

 After hearing Bhujbal's counsel Mukul Rohatgi, a division bench of justices Sharad Bobde and   condoned the 387-day delay.
 
 Bhujbal, arrested since March 14, 2016, is seeking permission to challenge the HC judgment of December 14, 2016. The SC listed the matter after two weeks.
 
 The Bombay HC bench of justices Ranjit More and Shalini Phansalkar Joshi had dismissed the habeas corpus (a writ requiring a person under arrest to be brought before court if unlawful detention is made out). Bhujbal is in judicial custody since his arrest by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in a money laundering case. He said it was an illegal arrest since it violated provisions of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act (PMLA) as it was not effected by an authorised officer and grounds of arrest were not disclosed to him.
 
 The Bombay HC had held "non-compliance of some safeguards in the provisions does not and cannot make his arrest patently illegal" enough to issue a habeas corpus.
 
 The HC had said, "Even assuming and accepting such grounds of arrest were required to be informed to him...there is substantial compliance of this statutory safeguard as such grounds were informed to him in the Arrest Order itself and again on the next day as can be seen from the Remand Report and Remand Order.''
 
 On March 30, 2016, a criminal complaint was filed against Bhujbal and 52 other accused before a special court in Mumbai under the Money Laundering Act with allegations that Bhujbal and his family members had generated huge illicit funds.The ED alleged   secured the Rs4,700-crore Maharashtra Sadan project by misrepresentation and fraud and in connivance with Bhujbal and other public servants.
 
 Meanwhile, in Bombay HC on Monday, justice Revati Mohite-Dere recused herself from hearing a bail plea filed by Bhujbal.
 
 
