KOLKATA: There will be fewer   processions in the city and its suburbs this year than the 71 recorded in 2017. “It will be at least 30% less than last year,” a senior police officer confirmed, even as some pockets in the state are yet to recover from the aftermath of the post-Ram Navami violence. 

 There will be only eight processions in Kolkata proper and the number won’t exceed 20 in the Kolkata-Bidhannagar-Barrackpore belt. There will be no processions in south Kolkata or added areas on the southern fringes. The police have, instead, appealed to devotees to offer pujas at Hanuman temples.
 
 Organizers of rallies who got the police nod had to submit in writing that they were “traditional” processions and participants wouldn’t carry weapons.
 
 “There are several hundred Hanuman temples in Kolkata and the districts. Under orders from Nabanna, we have to be present at all these temples to ensure that unscrupulous people don’t spread rumours,” a senior police officer said, insisting that the limited availability of forces was the reason behind curtailing the number of processions. 
 
 Viswa Hindu Parishad, which had taken out huge rallies last year, has refrained from organising any this year. “VHP supporters will assemble sadhus and bhakts at Hanuman temples and amass support for the construction of the Ram Mandir at  ,” said VHP spokesperson Sourish Mukherjee. The outfit will deploy 1,000 bhakts at Hanuman temples and religious places and also keep a close watch on processions.
 
 Those denied nod to take out Hanuman Jayanti processions include organisations like the  , which has its Kolkata office at Watgunge but had sought nod to take out a rally from Chetla in south Kolkata. Two Chetla clubs owing their allegiance to  , too, were denied permission to take out rallies. 
 
 Some Trinamool Congress seniors, such as Sujit Bose, have dropped their plans to take out processions on Saturday, but party MP Saugata Roy took out a rally at Dunlop More on Friday evening. Other Trinamool leaders will be seen participating in the three big processions in North 24 Parganas’ Kamarhati, Titagarh and Barrackpore, places where people have been worshipping Lord Hanuman for ages. Minister and Howrah Uttar MLA Lakshmi Ratan Shukla, too, will participate in a traditional Hanuman Jayanti procession in his constituency. 
 
 Across the state, cops will follow the same standard operating procedure. The routes will be pre-decided and all “sensitive zones” will have to be avoided. There will, of course, be no procession in the coal belt, where prohibitory orders under section 144 are in place. 
 
 
