MUMBAI: The   depreciated further on Monday and fell below the 67-per-dollar mark, which is more than a year-low level. The currency slid on continuous selling by foreign funds in the Indian   in recent weeks, a strong rally in   oil prices, rising imports into the country and global uncertainty about Iran’s nuclear deal. 

 
 A weak rupee is sure to burn a hole in the pockets of parents who are set to send their children abroad for further studies and also those who are travelling to other countries for a vacation this holiday season. Additionally, the fall in the rupee against the   as well as some other major currencies is sure to hit imports into India, primarily crude oil. So, as crude oil rises, so will the prices of petrol and diesel, among others. This, in turn, could directly lead to higher inflation. 
 
 On a positive note, exporters are expected to see higher demand for their products since their prices — in terms of dollar, euro, pound, etc — would fall. As a result, market players expect higher revenues for software services and pharma companies, among other exports. 
  
  
 
 Experts said, in addition to the domestic and international factors, political uncertainty around Karnataka polls and rising yields of sovereign bonds globally are also putting pressure on the rupee. 
 
 On Monday, for the first time since November 2014, crude oil price in the US rose above the $70 per barrel level. On the same day in the interbank market, the rupee weakened by 27 paise to close at 67.14 from its Friday close of 66.87. So far in 2018, the Indian currency has depreciated nearly 6% from its high of 63.37 on January 5.
 
 According to Kotak Mahindra Bank president (group treasury) Narayan S A, the rising price of crude oil — the biggest import item for India — is directly impacting the strength of the rupee. In addition, foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) have net sold equities and debt worth about $3.5 billion since April this year. 
 
 On top of these, US President Donald Trump is expected to announce on May 12 his take on the Iran nuclear deal, while poll results for Karnataka state assembly will be out on May 15. “All these are creating uncertainty in the minds of investors and FPIs are taking money out of India. These are risk-off trades for global investors,” Narayan said. For Narayan, in the short run, in case the Brent oil price doesn’t cross above the $80 level from about $76 now, the rupee should hover between 67.50 and 66.50 range. 
 
 According to ICICI Securities analysts Amit Gupta and Gaurav Shah, other than the sharp rise in crude oil prices, the recent spike in global yields is also affecting the domestic macro picture to a certain extent. “Benefits of lower crude prices have been disappearing as oil appears firming at $65-75 levels. However, we expect most negatives to have already been priced in. As such, the (rupee-dollar) pair could consolidate in the range of 65.80-67.30 per dollar. Also, record forex reserves with the RBI may be utilised in the event of the next bout of sharp rupee depreciation,” the analysts said.
 
 
