Nagpur: With just a week to go for deadline of the special investigation team (SIT) to submit its report on infiltration of unauthorized herbicide tolerant (HT) cotton seeds, there has been change of guard in the body. The two-member team will now be headed by Special IG of police Krishna Prakash. An order issued on Saturday replaces the earlier boss, Sanjay Barve, the commissioner of state’s intelligence department. Prakash, an officer junior to Barve, is the in-charge of VIP security. The SIT with Barve and joint director agriculture (Amravati division) Subash Nagre was formed on February 7. It was supposed to submit a report in a month’s time. If timeline is calculated from the date when the order was issued, the one month period ends coming Wednesday. It has been learnt that not much work had taken place under the earlier team. “The proceedings had not taken off and now the boss has been changed. The work may have to start from scratch now,” said sources.  HT cotton seeds are linked to last year’s 52 deaths due to accidental inhalation of pesticides. During the events, it also came up that HT cotton which is a genetically modified variety but not yet approved was largely used by farmers here.  HT cotton seeds are genetically engineered to be tolerant to weed killing chemicals. The seeds are, however, not expected to be as effective against bollworm pest like the Bt cotton which is the approved variety. Rampant use of HT seeds is expected to have led to pest attack this year leading to higher use of pesticide ultimately causing the deaths. However, even the legal Bt cotton has been reported to have failed against pink bollworm. The HT cotton is known to be produced in Gujarat and neighbouring Telangana but has a sizeable market in Maharashtra. Earlier, Maharashtra government had requested for a CBI inquiry into the matter as the racket runs across different states. With CBI probe yet to begun, a SIT was formed last month. An SIT was formed to probe the pesticide deaths which gave its report much after the stipulated deadline. The findings were challenged in the court by social activist Jammu Anand following which strictures were passed to take action against guilty officials in the pesticide case.