NOIDA:   who have booked projects in the long overdue 21 towers of   at Sector 110 in Noida have called for a silent protest on January 21. Construction is under way on these towers, which buyers have been waiting for. 

 About 150 homebuyers are expected to converge in Delhi to stage a demonstration in front of the house of one of the promoters house of Lotus Panache. 
 
 A collective visit to Lucknow to meet UP chief minister Yogi Aditya Nath is also being planned. 
 
 Lotus Panache is a private residency project with 30 towers of which nine are constructed and occupied. Sold in 2010, the apartments were supposed to be completed by 2013. 
 
 However, there has been delay in the completion of the remaining 21 towers.
 
 “Construction is taking place on site, but the speed is slow. By when will it be complete and by when will all the amenities such as club houses, common areas and other facilities be handed over? In the RERA declaration, the company has cited a new completion date of 2022, which is a 12-year-period for completion of the project,” Harpreet Singh, a buyer and resident of Lotus Panache said.
 
 Sanjeev Jain, a buyer who is at the helm of organising the protest, said, “Nearly 100 families have confirmed their attendance for the Sunday protest. After hosting this, we will organise a visit to chief minister Yogi Aditya Nath in Lucknow.”
 
 He added, “The question buyers have at this point is if nine towers were handed over, why the delay for the 29 towers? Where have all the funds deposited by the buyers been diverted to? Buyers are paying very high EMIs, we want proper clarity from the builder on this particular project.” 
 
 “Last week we filed an FIR with Sector 135 police station against the builder under sections 420 (Cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property) and 406 (Punishment for criminal breach of trust) for misappropriation of buyers’ funds. We are awaiting police action on the complaint even as the buyers are coming together for protests,” Vijay Tehelani, a buyer said.
 
 Calls and messages to the Lotus Panache management seeking comments on the homebuyers’ complaints were not answered.
 
 
