MUMBAI: The   department’s investigation wing has claimed to have unearthed two cases of alleged tax evasion by an educational trust and a businessman.

 Officials carried out searches at 10 premises of   group this week, alleging they had siphoned off money through two Uttar Pradesh-based trusts which existed only on paper. They also alleged suspicious transactions of Rs 85 crore had been detected. In the second case, I-T officials searched several premises of businessman Nitan   of   and Nanavati Hospital, where Chhatwal had earlier made an investment through another company. I-T sources stated they suspect Chhatwal used the money he generated through questionable transactions to invest in various businesses, including the hospital. A Nanavati Hospital representative said Chhatwal was a minority shareholder and had exited a year ago. “He has nothing to do with the hospital now,” the spokesperson said.
 
 A senior I-T official alleged the trust and the businessman carried out questionable transactions through shell companies. The officials are probing if they can invoke the Prohibition of Benami Property Transactions Act in both cases.
 
 I-T sources said the Podar group auditor’s role is also being probed. The income generated from imparting education can only be used for the purpose the trust has been established for, and not for any other purpose. But in this case, the Podar management has siphoned off trust money through bogus transactions for other purposes, officials claimed.
 
 An I-T official said the trust has transferred its money to two other trusts based at Ghaziabad and   in UP. I-T sources said the two trusts didn’t exist at the provided address and are believed to be bogus. The officials further added the money from the two trusts was then transferred to several shell companies and is believed to have been returned to the group management for personal use.
 
 “We are shocked by these baseless allegations and strongly deny the same. The Podar Group has been committed to providing quality education since 1972 and will continue to do so,” said  , CEO of Podar Group.
 
 In the second case, officials stated Chhatwal has maintained some foreign bank accounts in the names of his close relatives, and the matter is under investigation. They also alleged that through bogus transactions, he had showed Rs 96 crore as long-term capital gain on shares.
 
 Chhatwal told TOI, “The allegations raised against me are baseless. Officials haven’t recovered any proof indicating tax evasion by me.”
 
