Nagpur: The Nagpur University Teachers’ Association (NUTA) and Shikshak Bharati Panel (SBP), both comprising mainly retired and serving teachers, have tied up for the upcoming February 4 elections to 10 registered graduates polls of the Nagpur University (NU).

 The new alliance, also comprising schoolteachers of SBP, will take on the grand alliance of Secular Panel (SP) and Young Teachers’ Association (YTA). This is the first time SBP, that mainly works at the level of Teachers Consistency election of the legislative council, has fielded its candidate at the university level.
 
 Recently, rivals SP and YTA had forged alliance to take on the Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad (ABVP), which is backed by the Shikshan Manch (SM). Both, the ABVP and SM are closely associated with the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS).
 
 The SP-YTA alliance was also joined by Vidyapeeth Vidyarthi Sangram Parishad (VVSP) and Padvidhar Mahasangh. Parivartan Panel is another player in the contest, which is be contesting all the ten seats
 
 With NUTA-SBP, there would now be four-cornered fight in the graduates’ polls.
 
 Former NUTA secretary Anil Dhage, who has himself pitted for the election from open category, said, “We are a teachers’ organization working for higher education. Shikshak Bharati is a like-minded organization and has a strong base in Nagpur. It operates at high school and higher secondary school level. So we are hoping to get more votes by having an understanding with them,” Dhage said.
 
 Out of the five categories, the NUTA is contesting from four as it couldn’t find a suitable candidate from the women’s category. Of the 10 seats, five are open while one each is reserved for SC, ST, VJ/NT, OBC and women. As per the pact, SBP has field just one candidate from OBC category.
 
 What impact the new alliance would make on the grand alliance remains to be seen as the total number of voters has drastically slipped this time. The SP-YTA alliance is expecting over 10,000 to vote in it’s favour for nine candidates field by it.
 
 NU watchers have attributed the reason behind SP-YTA alliance to delay on the part of NUTA, though Dhage denied any such case saying “every time the situation is different.” In earlier terms, the YTA and NUTA had fought elections jointly against SP.
 
 
