Visakhapatnam: The Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation ( ) is planning to win the ‘garbage-free star rating’ initiative, launched by the Union government under Swachh Bharat Mission (Urban). The star   framework has been developed to form a mechanism, which will help the cities achieve SBM’s objective of ‘clean India’ and enable them to evolve into a model 7-star city. 

 In the initiative, cities will be rated 1,2,3,4,5,6 and 7 star based on multiple cleanliness indicators for solid waste management. These include, door to door collection, bulk generator compliance, source segregation, sweeping, scientific processing of waste, scientific land filling, plastic waste management, construction and demolition waste management, dump remediation and citizen grievance redressal system, etc. GVMC chief medical officer Dr A Hemanth said the city has already achieved 100% in door-to-door collection. “The infrastructure of the city is sufficient to maintain better cleanliness. However, we are on the process of identifying the gaps in the solid waste management. For example, the segregation at source is limited to some 60-70% households. Once the 15 MW waste-to-energy plant is completed, which is expected to be ready by December, it will pave the way for 100% scientific waste processing. We have procured about 1,000 waste bins in the last one year,” said Dr Hemanth.
 
 When asked about specific plans for the star rating initiative, Dr Hemanth revealed that the programme will drive them to speed up their cleanliness initiatives. “Sensitising the public and creating awareness among them on the importance of initiatives such as segregation at source will help us achieve our objectives. We will intensify our efforts through the residential welfare associations, slum level federations, self-help groups and others to improve our reach and scale,” said Dr Hemanth. He further said, other cities might have done better than Visakhapatnam in Swachh Survekshan 2018 that might be the reason for Visakhapatnam not finding a place in the top three cities.
 
 However, it was learnt that the GVMC will likely go for the 5-star rating this year before evolving into a 7-star city with incremental improvements in their overall cleanliness.
 
 
