NEW DELHI: The TS EAMCET 2018 results have been declared on the official website eamcet.tsche.ac.in on Saturday. 

 
 The   were declared by the state education minister   around 1:00 pm at the Secretariat. 
 
 After a two years gap, Telangana students outshone in the engineering, agriculture and medical common entrance test (Eamcet), with eight of the top 10 spots bagged by students of the newly formed state. 
 
 For the last two years, Andhra Pradesh students had been securing top ranks in the Telangana Eamcet.
 
 Ayyapu Venkata Phani Vamsinath of Hyderabad secured the top rank in engineering stream with 95.72 percent and Gattu Mytraya of Hyderabad secured the second spot with 95.69 percent. 
 
 In the agriculture and pharmacy stream, Perigela Namratha of Kurnool secured the top rank with 93.38 percent and Y Sanjveea Kumar Reddy of Hyderabad secured the second rank with 92.27 percent.
 
 The pass percentage for engineering stream stood at 78.24 percent and for agriculture and pharmacy it was 90.72 percent. Qualified candidates will be able to download their rank cards on the Eamcet website from May 22, 2018.
 
 Around two lakh students wrote the exam this year.
 
 The TS EAMCET exams were conducted by the Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University, JNTU Hyderabad from May 2 to 7, 2018.
 
 The Agriculture and Medical exams were held on May 2nd and 3rd in which around 67,000 students participated, while the Engineering exam was held on May 4th, 5th and 7th in which around 1.48 lakh students participated.
 
 While the Eamcet results will be declared on Saturday, the JNTUH is yet to finalise the affiliation of colleges which will subsequently determine the number of engineering and pharmacy seats for the academic year 2018-19. Officials said that the affiliation process is set to conclude shortly. 
 
  This was the first time that Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University, Hyderabad conducted the Eamcet in the online mode. Of the 2.17 lakh registered candidates, 2.03 lakh appeared for the exam in a span of five days. 
 
 It may be noted that the candidates need to score a minimum of 25 percent of the maximum marks to qualify in EAMCET. While the marks were declared by the university last week, ranks will be calculated considering 75 percent of marks and 25 percent of the intermediate boards result.
 
 The merit will be decided on the following criteria given below.
 
 
 The TS EAMCET 2018 exam is a computer-based test conducted by the Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University (JTNU) Hyderabad on behalf of the TSCHE. 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
