CHENNAI: Leaders and cadres of various opposition parties, including DMK working president M K Stalin, TNCC chief S Thirunavukkarasar, MDMK chief Vaiko and VCK chief Thol Thirumavalavan were arrested when they blocked traffic in different parts of Tamil Nadu on Monday to protest against the bus fare hike.

 Stalin was arrested in his Kolathur constituency when he sat on the main road blocking traffic. He was later taken to a marriage hall in the area. He warned that it was only the beginning of a series of protests by the opposition parties. Leaders and cadres of the CPI and CPM also took part in the agitation.
 
 “The government’s announcement of a partial roll back of the fare hike is an eyewash,” said Stalin, demanding full rollback of the bus fare hike. “Police said only 25,000 people were held across the state. In DMK alone, we have 62 party districts and in each district not less than 10,000 people were arrested. About 6 lakh DMK cadres alone were arrested. Other political parties, which took part in the protest, say more than 5 lakh of their cadres were held,” said Stalin after he was released.
 
 He said both chief minister   and his deputy O Panneerselvam had blamed the previous government for the mess in the transport department. “Since 2011, it is the AIADMK which has been ruling the state. A new AIADMK government was formed in 2016 and the previous government is Jayalalithaa’s government. Thus OPS and EPS are blaming Jayalalithaa’s government for the mess,” said Stalin.
 
 Vaiko and Thirumavalavan were arrested when they tried to block a road in Saidapet. Thirunavukkarasar was held at Royapettah along with   J Anbazhagan. Similarly, at Tiruvallur, MLA V G Rajendran was arrested after he tried to block an arterial road in the town.
 
 In Coimbatore, DMK MLA N Karthik, former minister Pongalur N Palanisamy and district leaders of the CPI, VCK, MDMK and Kongunadu Makkal Desiya Katchi participated in the protests.
 
 Around 4000 people who protested against the bus fare hike were arrested in Trichy. Politicians and supporters from various parties led by former minister K N Nehru and Tiruverumbur MLA Mahesh Poyyamozhi were among those arrested at Trichy.
 
 Former Union ministers T R Baalu and S S Palanimanikkam participated in the protests in Thanjavur, where 192 activists were taken into custody. Protesters led by DMK MLA TRB Rajaa were held at Mannargudi and more than 450 workers of various parties were taken into custody in Cuddalore.
 
 Police detained 6,379 persons, including 687 women, for resorting to road blockade at 57 places in Tirunelveli, Tuticorin and Kanyakumari districts.
 
 
