By invitation

 The genre of advertising, as we know it, has been crafted from the fine art of storytelling — fictional tales giving brands both stature and love. Practitioners built their reputation on the exceptional ability to tell stories, blending insight with flair to fulfil business objectives and win fame.
 
 But in recent times, the key onus of brand endorsement has been seen to lie in the meaningful connection between performance and purpose, and its impact on individuals, peer groups, and society at large. This appropriately begs the query whether the traditional approach of creating miniature versions of   — 30- or 60-second   that even digital media continues to follow — will be relevant for much longer.
 
 The chief purpose of communication is connected to market performance, and there was a very good reason why fiction was the chosen path to establish fact. Historically, brands were built on a larger-than-life platform. They enjoyed a certain ‘superhero’ status that was deliberately cultivated by management and encouraged by society, with an aim of gaining the brand adulation comparable to that received by   stars.
 
 Quite truthfully, the legendary brands of yore were worthy of full-fledged novels — a top-secret manufacturing formula, iconic founders, journey full of grit and glory, and with access that often had to be earned. By simply presenting information, the business potential of such labels could never be properly realised, which is why Lux, Marlboro, Camay, Coke and so many more assumed the aura of invincibility. This template was followed by their peers in India, who took full advantage of the natural love for drama this country is famous for (our daily lives a neverending soap opera).
 
 Modern brands, however, come to life as friendly partners, people like us helping people like us to fulfil ambitions in a manner that’s both inspiring and efficient, yet not devoid of romanticism (but with a much reduced ‘power distance’). This is a function of the evolution of societal relationships, where even the superstar must perform daily to retain respect and relevance.
 
 This has been further fuelled by the increasing importance of peer-to-peer references for triggering brand choice, the credibility of a fellow user way more valuable than an artificial narrative. Gradually, brands are embarking on programmes for consumer connect, in turn inspiringly narrating them for the highest desired impact (especially via digital media). Even the hiring of celebrities is connected to a strategic association with that person’s permanent image, and not just a film characterisation.
 
 We have, thus, already entered the world of ‘experiential relationship building’, where even imagery, and certainly visibility, is connected to the lure and success of how brands can realistically impact our lives. This can happen by satisfying our truest aspirations — presenting a moment’s delight, stimulating the creativity of our children, or even securing our future through a prudence that disarms.
 
 These are aspects of delivery much before they are the articulation of promises, which is exactly where the narrative based on fantasy becomes increasingly irrelevant as a valid consumer stimulant. It is replaced, instead, by the representation of ‘truthful impact’, and the initiatives or the conversations brands indulge in regularly with their consumption partners.
 
 While TV commercials inspired by cinema will certainly fade away as structured slotted entities, the skill of storytelling will become increasingly pertinent in the cause of building brands, to craft experiences that will forge bonds that are both dynamic and permanent. As, indeed, has been demonstrated by many early adopters in India, among them Paper Boat and  , riding on a contemporary presentation of desirable nostalgia. In a happy sense, the special skills of advertising’s dream merchants will witness a role upgrade, coming to the party as a primary brand experience and not simply paid communication. The times have certainly changed but whether we are changing with the times remains to be seen.
 
 (Author is  , founder of INEXGRO Brand Advisory)
 
 
