PANAJI: While organ donation is yet to get truly popular in Goa, the path to make it successful made not be an easy one. Experts say that the government would have to issue specific guidelines and rules before it gives permission to any hospital to transplant organs. “Tamil Nadu has already set an example,” said a senior doctor who didn’t want to be named in the face of last month’s controversy over a cadaveric transplant. The southern state has been at the top in organ donation for the past three years. “It would be appropriate if the Goa government studies various orders issued by the Tamil Naidu government from time to time when it started promoting organ donation and transplants,” the doctor said.

 Last month, health minister   had said that he would expedite the process of setting up a   (SOTTO) in Goa Medical College (GMC) and hospital.
 
 A GMC doctor told TOI that there’s a lot of ignorance on the subject even though a lot of lives can be saved if more people volunteer to donate organs. 
 
 “There are certain constraints in cadaveric as well as live organ transplants. The Transplantation of Human Organs Act has brought in lot of clarity, and this needs to be communicated to the people,” the doctor said.
 
 Ideally, whether for live or cadaveric transplants, the doctor said that organs of only healthy persons are harvested. “The donor should not be over 60 years of age and shouldn’t suffer from any ailments such as diabetes, hypertension or cancer,” a doctor said.
 
 If the organ to be harvested is kidneys, doctors conduct meticulous tests to assess that donor’s kidneys are not diseased and that they do not have hypertension. “There can’t be relaxation because by harvesting diseased kidneys, no good will be done either to donor or receiver,” the doctor said. “It is not only tantamount to cheating, but it is also illegal.” 
 
 The Transplantation of Human Organs Act is very explicit in these aspects. The Act, he said, provides for the regulation of removal, storage, and transplantation of human organs for therapeutic purposes. 
 
 
