BATHINDA: A room on the third floor of   has been packed with senior citizens and people with disabilities for the past few months, making it the busiest spot of the office. 

 Every morning, a huge crowd reaches the room to get documents verified for receiving old-age pension and disability allowance. This is because the state government recently removed these people from the list of beneficiaries of the two schemes. For the senior citizens and disable people, the entire exercise has turned into a challenege, as many of them come from far off places and face a lot of hardships in reaching or locating the room. That's not all. 
 
 They have to wait for hours before gettig an audience with officials. Though many of them cannot even walk, they have to climb up stairs, as no one guides them to the lift on the first floor. "I have come from Sangat to get my pension regularised. It was discontinued over some false objections. I am disabled and reached the room after a lot of hardship," said Bakhtaur Singh.
 
 The state government pays Rs 500 a month as pension to people aged over 60. There are nearly 19.8 lakh pensioners across  , but the state government - after getting complaints of nearly 2.5 lakh persons getting pensions on forged documents or being ineligible for the benefits - had deleted the names of these pensioners six months ago. 
 
 A 70-something woman,  , said she had come from Sivian village to get her pension regularised. "I cannot even explain how difficult it is to reach here. I left home early in the morning, but I am still waiting," she said. 
 
  has 1.11 lakh beneficiaries of old-age, disabled and widow pension. Of these, 13,000 beneficiaries were found ineligible in the reverification drive, with 9,700 of them turning out to be old-age pensioners. 
 
 Going by the problems being faced by pensioners in locating the room, paper bills pointing towards the room have been pasted at many places. "We are trying to provide every possible assistance to older and disabled persons coming from far off places for pensions. I have also instructed officials dealing with pensioners to be polite so that they feel respected," Bathinda additional deputy commissioner   told TOI.
 
 
