HAVERI/KARWAR: Teachers feigning illness and coming up with ingenious excuses to skip election duty is nothing new. But this time round, flooded with medical certificates from teachers, district administration officials have decided to act tough.

  deputy commissioner   has sought an explanation from more than 80 teachers who have submitted medical certificates seeking exemption from election duty. He has instructed the DDPI to get details of medical reports of teachers and to send them to the medical board for further verification. He has also asked for their attendance report.
 
 Speaking to STOI, Venkatesh said, “I can’t believe so many teachers have applied for exemption from election duty on health ground. If their health is so poor, how were they teaching? We will exempt teachers or other staff if they have a genuine health problem.”
 
 DDPI   said he has issued letters to BEOs to send health details of teachers who have applied for exemption from election duty.
 
 In Karwar, government employees who had sought exemption from election duty were subjected to a medical check-up in the   on Saturday. Hundreds queued up outside the doctors’ chambers for a certificate. The Uttara Kannada district deputy commissioner had issued a circular to all departments to prove that they were unwell and unable to report for election duty.
 
 “Notices have been issued to even those who are on maternity leave and those who have undergone a surgery,” said a staffer who refused to be identified. “We are being forced to travel all the way to   to avail the certificate. The DC could have asked us to get the certificate from government hospitals in our places,” rued a woman employee who claimed she had undergone a heart surgery two months ago.
 
 It’s not easy for the doctors either. “A patient who had an eye operation a month ago looks normal. But recommending him for election duty makes him susceptible to an eye infection. Legally, he can sue the doctor for certifying him fit. I am in a dilemma,” said a doctor. 
 
 
