For the first time in India the   Chennai and Harpers’ Bazaar Magazine joined hands to give a truly immersive experience in luxury with ‘House of Bazaar’ (HOB), a three-day extravaganza of fashion, beauty, wellness and food for the fashion and beauty connoisseurs of Chennai. 

  Infused and driven by fashion and lifestyle conversations, the three-day event curated by magazine had oodles of fashionable moments and people to engage with. Beginning with a series of workshops by eminent celebrities and experts in the field taking the centrestage, sharing their trade secrets, personal motivations and the infinite possibilities of being creative in the world of fashion, to happening current beauty trends, the know-how of looking fashionably stylish and glamorous, to doing up a beautiful home and leading a serene life, HOB had some valuable take-away for all, both men and women. 
 
 Nonita Kalra, Editor, Harper’s Bazaar India, unveiled the  , with a fashion workshop at The Closet on day one. Her workshop focused on ‘Building A Wardrobe Of Classics’, on how it lasts, rarely goes out of style, and how a few well selected fashionable pieces can take one just about anywhere. With the fashion must-haves, including a few good clothes and accessories that can be mixed and matched, a pair of blue denim jeans, a tailored shirt, a beautiful summer jacket, a smart black skirt , a pair of red high heels, Nonita shared some cool tips for dressing up this summer.
 Food Workshop At the Table, by Puja Puneet, CEO, Life by Design and styled by Villeroy & Boch, had the life coach speak about the ‘Art of being a domestic Goddess’, followed by a scintillating fashion show at The Porch, where celebrity fashion designers Satya Paul, Rehane and Kate Spade wowed the audience with their Spring Summer Capsule Creations for 2018. 
 
  This event witnessed the presence of guests like Atul Ruia, MD, Phoenix Mills PVT LTD, Vijay Choraria, MD, Crest Ventures Ltd, Sanjay Kapoor, MD, Genesis Colors and Genesis Luxury, Darshan Mehta, CEO, Reliance Retail, added glitter to the already glam evening. 
 
  Day two hosted fashion icon and fashion director of Harper’s Bazaar India, Edward Lalrempuia’s workshop on ‘How to look fabulous at work’ and what will get one the most compliments, followed by a beauty workshop at the Boudoir, Go Glam conducted by MUD Designory, Hina Patel and Saba Khan. The finale day had Edward sharing his fashion gyaan on ‘How to Accessorize in the morning and evening’, followed by a beauty workshop at The Porch by celebrity makeup artiste and hair stylist, Namrata Soni. Not just that! Sniff, Swirl, Sip and Wine workshop at the Table was conducted by Madhulika Dhall, India’s leading lady of wine, who shared the secrets of pairing the right and best wine with cheese. 
 
  House of Bazaar literally brought alive the magic of the fashion world into the open for everyone to know how a curated lifestyle can be. And Palladium is a first-of-its-kind luxury shopping destination in Chennai; spread over 2lakh sqft, it hosts brands like Paul and Shark, Michael Kors, Lladro, Dune, Coach, Satya Paul, Tumi, Canali, Hugo Boss, Mont Blanc, Horolgy, Moschino and Marc Jacobs, among others.
 
