HYDERABAD: Gold smuggler Abdul Razak, 40, did the impossible before being grounded by customs at Hyderabad  . He stashed a 1.2kg gold package under his seat in his return flight to Delhi, breaching the multi-layered security checks and exposing a well-oiled machinery of smuggling conduits in the twin Telugu states.

  
  
 A week ago, Razak began his journey from Rampur in Uttar Pradesh to Delhi in a train on instructions from his Dubai-based handler on WhatsApp. Before boarding the Dubai flight from   airport, Razak bought thousands of rupees of gutka and paan masala and packed it in his checked-in baggage. After spending time at a Dubai hotel, Razak started his return journey, but this time, instead of flying to Delhi, he came all the way to Hyderabad. Razak’s bags, during his return journey, were stacked with burqas and skull caps, nothing to be booked for by customs officials. However, during the return flight, Razak stashed gold under his plane seat.
 
 Though Razak’s was the most-recent arrest by customs personnel, he is not the first gold carrier, travelling aboard Air India’s AI 952 flight, to be nabbed for smuggling in Telugu states. On March 8, 2014, gold carrier Doubic Ali boarded AI 952 from Dubai with 2.1kg gold biscuits. When the flight landed at RGIA, Hyderabad, four of Doubic Ali's associates — Mansur Ali, Syed Mohammed Khasim, Nayeem Mohammed and Sabul Hamid — boarded the flight as domestic passengers travelling to Vizag. At Visakhapatnam airport, before entering the customs check area, Doubic and associates went to washrooms where he distributed gold biscuits. The gold was concealed by Doubic's associates in their rectums.
 
 Based on an alert by a customs escort officer travelling by the same flight, they were apprehended at Vizag airport.
 
 Razak and Doubic’s team were caught while operating as passengers. In 2015,   sleuths had arrested two airport security personnel— K   and P Rami Naidu— while they were handing over 8 kg smuggled gold to Gulbarga-based smuggler Mazhar Ali at RGI Airport’s parking lot. The duo had picked up the gold from a passenger, who had arrived by an Emirates flight, on the aerobridge at the airport and then used their access cards to bypass customs.
 
 “If a passenger has been assigned pick-up task, the smugglers book same seat for him/ her using premium feature in online booking. Sometimes, they also use services of booking agents,” a DRI official, who investigated several gold smuggling cases, said.
 
 Since the value of the smuggled gold was over , Razak was arrested. In such cases, mostly no one comes forward to claim the seized yellow metal as they might face criminal charges in addition to paying hefty penalty and duty.
 
 
