CHANDIGARH: Chandigarh municipal corporation (MC) has identified and started sending property   to 7,554 residents of 10 sectors of the city comprising four municipal wards. This is the biggest ever lot of the residential property tax notices, being sent after the tax branch of the MC identified the violators.

 To avoid the complaints to those residents, who have already paid their respective tax amounts to the authority, this time, the tax branch of the civic body claimed to have cross-checked the entire data of the residents, who have already paid to tax. Out of these 7,554 residents, who have been given the tax notices, there are many who have to pay more than one financial year’s property tax. Hence, tax notices from 2013-2014 to 2017-2018 financial years have been slapped.
 
 “To facilitate the residents, we have also given them the option to pay their respective tax amount in any branch of the   –OBC- in city and   this year. Earlier, the residents were depositing their tax amount only in the e-Sampark centres of the city. But, with the new option of the bank’s branches, we tried to ease out the things for them. The notices have been slapped on the residents of four municipal wards namely 2, 16, 17 and 18. All these residents are having over a 500-square feet area,” said an official.
 
 Since, the MC started dispatching the notices from Saturday, the residents have been given time till March 30, to deposit their respective tax amounts. Since the tax branch has given the slabs, residents can easily know the pending amount financial year-wise.
 
 If the residents do not pay the tax, they will have to pay the penal interest to the authority. “In case you failed to pay the tax arrears by March 30, recovery proceedings will be initiated for the outstanding tax with the penal interest as per laid down rules,” the notice says.
 
 Significantly, this is the third lot of notices, sent to the residents of the city by the MC. Both the earlier lots had around 2,500 notices. Over half a dozen sectors were covered in these two lots.
 
 Box:
 
 Since the taxes are a major source of revenue, the civic body has been stressing on them to generate maximum money. Since there was no record of such tax payers, civic body has been making optimum use of the technology to maintain records now.
 
 
