CHENNAI: Chain   on motorcycles made away with five   chains worth Rs 11.5 lakh from five elderly women in just three hours on Sunday morning, striking with impudence in the heart of the city.

  
  
 
 The city police said two gangs accounted for the five cases. One pair of   struck in Ashok Nagar, Pondy Bazaar, KK Nagar and Valasaravakkam between 7am and 9am; two other men on a bike robbed a 75-year-old woman in Anna Nagar West around 7.10am.
 
  said the suspects took a total of 49.5   (396g) of gold. The police, working on witness descriptions and surveillance footage, are searching for the robbers.
 
 “It appears that the robbers who struck in four places had a clear plan and had charted out their escape routes,” a senior police officer said. “The rider hid his identity behind a crash helmet and his accomplice covered his face with a handkerchief.”
 
 The two men, he said, first accosted Vasundhara, 61, a resident of Seventh Avenue, Ashok Nagar, at 7am, as she was walking to her brother’s house. “The two men snatched her 15-sovereign chain and escaped before she could raise an alarm,” the officer said. “We have collected CCTV footage from the crime scene.”
 
 Forty-five minutes later, the   robbed Srimathi, 62, of Coats Road in Pondy Bazaar, as she headed to a temple nearby. The Pondy Bazaar police said they grabbed a 11.5-sovereign chain on Srinivasa Road and sped away.
 
 Now on a spree, the robbers returned to Ashok Nagar at 8.35am, robbing a 10-sovereign chain from 61-year-old Fathima Beevi on Vanniyar Street as she was heading to purchase fish, the officer said. Less than 25 minutes later, the pair struck in Valasaravakkam, grabbing a 9-sovereign gold chain from Shanthakumari, 67, of Kancheepuram. “She was walking on Krishnaswamy Street when the suspects, heading toward her, snatched her chain and fled the scene,” the officer said.
 
 The second gang robbed Jessi Manoharan of a 5-sovereign gold chain as she was walking along 18th Main Road, Anna Nagar West, the Thirumangalam police said. Manoharan was on her way to church when the robbers mugged her.
 
