New Delhi: Turn Right for   — this is the instruction inscribed on a steel barricade that lies discarded in a corner; the arrow, instead, points to a bunch of carts boasting of special Amritsari makhan naan. But as you wade through a narrow path leading to the MCD storage compound in Kalu Sarai — close to the busy   — you may be forgiven for mistaking it for a dumpyard.

 Once inside, you are greeted by seemingly countless refrigerators, cylinders, water coolers and pushcarts. But before you get there, you have to navigate your way around dozens of yellow brass vessels used for   and other street-food items, which share space with several greasy counter-tops and stacked-up vehicles.
 
 There are hundreds of these items, all labelled “encroachments”.
 
 “These are extraordinary times. Over the last one week, we have been getting 4-5 truckloads of seized items daily. For the time-being, we are managing somehow, by stacking them on top of each other. However, this can’t go on for long unless people start claiming their belongings in a hurry,” the store in-charge told TOI.
 
 The story is much the same at several seizure lots managed by the corporations. The anti-encroachment drive is likely to continue for another week, as per the court’s instructions. In the past one week, the three corporations have seized over 750 vehicles and more than 100 illegal carts. They have also demolished over 500 permanent and temporary structures and extensions of buildings on pavements.
 
 But, officials warned, the pace of the drive could be hampered if alternative storage spaces weren’t created. Senior corporation officials said they were in touch with traffic police to look for new places to keep seized vehicles.
 
 If an item is seized, the owner can get it back after paying the challan but not everyone comes back to reclaim their belongings. “For a normal cart, one has to pay Rs 1,125 as compounding fee, another Rs 450 as removal fee and Rs 100 a day for storage. For cars, the   is Rs 1 per day per kg. For instance, if a car weighs about 500 kg, the storage fee will be Rs 500, multiplied by the number of days it is stored. The composition and lifting fees are fixed at Rs 3,750 and Rs 750, respectively. If a car is brought in a damaged condition, the composition fee is much lower, at Rs 1,500,” an inspector from the enforcement team of south corporation said.
 
 He added that in case of cheap objects or condemned cars, the fine sometimes became too high for the owner to even bother about reclaiming them. “In such cases, we carry out an open auction, which comes with its own set of problems,” the inspector said.
 
 Sections 320 , 321 and 322 of the Delhi Municipal Corporation Act empower civic bodies to tow away wrongly parked vehicles.
 
 
