Trichy: With the Supreme Court set to pronounce its verdict on the Cauvery water dispute on Friday, renowned water conservationist Rajendra Singh on Thursday asked farmers to unite for their water needs through dialogue by shunning state boundaries.

 Speaking at Pudukottai as part of an event organized by Tamil Nadu Rivers Retrieval Movement, the Rajasthan-based activist said that politicians had been speaking about linking rivers but nothing had happened so far. Unless farmers came together and linked themselves for their water needs setting aside territorial differences, real change would not happen, he said. 
 
 Rajendra Singh was instrumental in reviving 11 rivers in Rajasthan in the past 35 years. This had helped recharge the ground water table making people who had migrated in search of water return to their villages. “With no support from industries or the government, we could revive 11 dead rivers in a state like Rajasthan with the cooperation of villagers. But Tamil Nadu which receives five times more rain than Rajasthan is going dry,” he said.
 
 Saying that revival of water resources is possible only through traditional practices inherited from ancestors, he asked people to mobilise youngsters towards the cause. Over 16,000 water projects in the country were implemented in the past four decades but those could not solve the water issues. “Civil engineers during the pre-independence era constructed huge dams to plunder our natural resources. After independence, the next generation engineers followed them by constructing dams in the name of developmental projects and further degraded the environment,”he said.
 
 While food security issues were discussed widely in recent times there were no potential steps towards conservation of forests, water resources and environment which were decisive in ensuring food security, said Singh. He asked members of Tamil Nadu Rivers Retrieval Movement to take up conservation activities to save water resources. It was decided at the meeting to take steps to eradicate eucalyptus plantation that had been adversely affecting groundwater in Pudukkottai.
 
 
