NEW DELHI: The   has upheld the Indian Air Force’s decision to revoke a candidate’s appointment after it was discovered he had a permanent   on his forearm.

 A bench of Justice Hima Kohli and   agreed with the IAF that being a disciplined organisation it is bound to abide by the rules of appointment and can’t relax them beyond permissible limit.
 
 The IAF also told the court it permits certain kind of tattoos such as in case of candidates from tribal backgrounds, which are as per customs and traditions. These include permanent body tattoo on the inner face of forearms (inside of elbow to the wrist), the back (dorsal) part of the hand /reverse side of palm, and in the case of tribals, tattoos that are as per custom and traditions of their tribes. However, the right to decide on the acceptability or unacceptability of the individual lies with the selection committee, the defence organisation told court in response to a petition filed by the candidate challenging his removal from the force.
 
 HC saw merit in the IAF’s stand after it noted that the candidate’s tattoo was not in conformity with the relaxation granted by the force. It further took note that he failed to submit a photograph of his tattoo at the time of submitting his application, as prescribed in the advertisement issued by the IAF.
 
 The man had challenged the armed force's decision to cancel his appointment for the post, saying he had duly declared that he had a body tattoo, in terms of a certificate submitted by him when a call letter was issued to him.
 
 The bench, however, dismissed his petition, saying “having regard to the fact that tattoos engraved on the body of the petitioner is not in conformity with the relaxation granted in the advertisement, we do not find any infirmity in the impugned order of cancellation of his appointment.” It said the authorities cannot be faulted for cancelling his appointment in December 2017, when he had failed to submit a photograph of his tattoo.
 
 The man had applied for recruitment to the post of Airman with the Air Force on September 29, 2016 and after clearing the written and physical examination in February 2017, he was called for a medical test which was also cleared.
 
