She is just 18, but   is currently enjoying every moment as the heroine of the  , as the much loved Balamol aka Balachandrika. 

 Karuthamuthu serial aired on Asianet which completed its 1000th episode recently, is awaiting its next twist now. The sisterly love of Balamol towards the despicable Gayathri, played by actress Darshana Das, has been the core element of the recent episodes. We caught up with the actress to know more about her role, friendships in the industry and dreams…
 
 
 
 I was introduced to showbiz through the music album Orma created by my cousin Prajeesh, an editor in the media field. I was a Class 7 student then. The album helped me make my acting debut in 2014, with the movie, Maramkothi, in which I played the second lead heroine, named Anima. Later I got a call from Mazhavil Manorama to act in the serial Mangalyapattu. It was my parents who said I give it a try as it was for the protagonist’s role, Myna. The serial helped me get recognition among the viewers, when I was just a Class 12 student! It concluded in 2017. So I got to know that the makers of Karuthamuthu were looking for an artiste to play the grown-up Balamol, I applied.
 
 
 
 The crew had told me that my character is a mature district collector. So I had to wear cotton saris. I was a little worried about playing Balamol as the childhood character played by Akshara Kishore was hugely popular among the family audience. So it was a great responsibility for me to ensure that the audience accepts the grown-up Bala as well. In the first few scenes I had enjoyed enacting a bold district collector but later my scenes revolved more around the family issues and her love relationship with DCP Abhiram, played by actor Pradeep Chandran.
 
 My character is very loving towards her cousin Podimol aka Gayathri played by Darshana, who is like her own sister. Bala and Darshana are daughters of brothers Balachandran and Jayachandran respectively.
 
 Gayathri was madly in love with Abhiram but didn’t know that he was already engaged to Bala. But Bala got to know that Gayathri is her sister only after her secret marriage with DCP Abhiram. Her in-laws and parents told her that they kept the truth away from her because if she knew that Gayathri is her sister, she would sacrifice her love. The script of the scene on Bala coming to know about Gayathri was 25 pages long and I was really stressed thinking about how to convey the expressions well.
 
 Gayathri is unaware of the fact that Abhiram and Bala are expecting their baby. As Gayathri is an eccentric character, everyone fears that if she comes to know about the Bala-Abhiram relationship, she might end up committing suicide. So it is now like a cat and mouse game but the suspense will end soon as Podimol has started developing doubts. How Gayathri will respond to the news will be the final showdown in the coming episodes.
 Serials are like acting schools. At times, for an entire day we have to enact an emotional scene. We get stressed out in the end emotionally. But the love for acting reduces the pressure.
 
 
 
 I stay in Thiruvananthapuram as our locations are mostly in and around the capital city. I offered my first Attukal Pongala this time near my house at Enjakkal. The women who were offering Pongala nearby came to see me and told me how they love the serial! People call me Balamol and I feel happy about it. Last year I had attended the Christmas celebrations at the church in my hometown in Kollam, which is in a rural area. I was surprised when many people came to me and spoke to me as if I am Balamol in real life. They even said they will arrange a house for me there and will protect me and my husband Abhiram if Gayathri comes to attack us!
 
 
 
 Darshana might be my antagonist in the serial but in real life, we are very close friends. She is three years elder to me and we share a great bond. Breaks are real fun where Pradeep chettan, Darshana and I do dubsmashes and play pranks on each other.
 
 
 
 I don’t have many friends as I used to skip classes at school due to my acting commitments. At present, I have enrolled for a distance education in BA Sociology, since I can’t do a full time course. I miss a college life. My great wish is to become the student of a regular college student and have friends. I couldn’t enjoy my school days either.
 
 I would love to do films once I complete Karuthamuthu.
 
 
