When the Indian team left for  , there was every hope that this would be the first Indian team to win all three series and return home victorious. That didn’t quite happen, as despite being in the game for three innings of the first two Tests, their batting faltered in the fourth innings and lost both those Tests, and with it, the chance to win the series.

 
 
  
  
 
 
 Their spirited performance on a difficult pitch in the third Test showed that the Indians had got used to the pace and bounce of the South African pitches and their bowlers in particular bowled spectacularly to bowl them to a terrific win. What this does show is the importance of having some practice games before the Tests start.
 
 The tour to England starts with the One-day series, so the Indians will have almost a month before the Tests start. Let’s face it, even today, despite the onslaught of T20 and ODIs, it’s the Test results that really matter, so the month in England should be pretty handy as far as getting used to the conditions is concerned.
 
 For Australia, though, the planning has to be done now and a couple of proper first -class matches must be organised before the first Test. A wonderful player like   can land up on the eve of the match and score a big hundred but the lesser mortals need some getting used to the different playing conditions to be somewhere near their best.
 
 With that win in the third Test as the morale-booster, the Indians have simply pulverised the South African side in the One-dayers. Their top batsmen have batted for more than 30 overs in every game and the top three have all got a hundred in every game apart from the one in Centurion where they had to chase only 118 to win.
 
 The most exciting part of the win has been the bowling of the two wrist spinners. They have outfoxed the Proteas batsmen, who even after five games, aren’t sure which way the ball is going to turn.
 
 Kuldeep Yadav has already played Tests and showed how effective he can be in the longer format. Jasprit Bumrah has made the change from white ball to red ball impressively and there is no reason why Yuzuvendra Chahal also won’t make that transition and win Test matches for India with his wrist spin. 
 
 
