Nagpur: A day after rejecting bail pleas of   in Mokhabardi lift   scheme, the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court on Friday forced other two contractors of Nerla (Paghora) project to withdraw their pleas for quashing of FIR against them. However, the contractors were granted interim protection with a directive to the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) not to take any coercive action against them. 

 The contractor-duo was also asked to report to Sadar police station, where the police complaint was lodged against them, in every 15 days.
 
 Petitioners — Ramireddy Sreenivasula Reddy from Hyderabad and Venkatrama Rao Bollinelli from Tirupati had challenged the police complaint lodged against them on April 30 last year. It was filed by ACB inspector Pramod Ghonge alleging massive irregularities and rigging of tender by both the contractors through their joint venture (JV) — M/s Srinivasa Construction Company and R Balrami Reddy and Company. Subsequently, they were booked for offences under Sections 13 (1) (C), (D) and 13 (2) of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988, and Sections 420, 109 and 120 (B) of the IPC. 
 
 A division bench comprising Justice Ravi Deshpande and Justice Murlidhar Giratkar clarified that it was not inclined to grant relief to them. The petitioners’ counsels then asked for liberty to withdraw the pleas. They requested the court that their clients hadn’t faced arrest till date and even the case was over a decade old.
 
 Earlier, public prosecutor (PP) Sagar Ashirgade opposed their pleas contending that their JV is benefited with the illegal tender updation, done in collusion with Vidarbha Irrigation Development Corporation (VIDC) officials. By doing so, the contractors obtained a pecuniary advantage of around Rs15.49 crore and caused massive losses to the exchequer. Their irregularities were exposed by the government-appointed Vadnere Committee in its report.
 
 Ashirgade pointed out that the FIR was lodged on the basis of ACB’s open enquiry. He argued that the JV had submitted the pre-qualification documents for construction of ‘earthwork lining’ to Paghora main canal work (From 8.52 kms to 43.80 kms) and construction of earthwork of Pedhari branch canal work on October 5, 2006. However, the JV wasn’t registered as partnership firm before the registrar of firms at the time of submitting the pre-qualification documents for the tender work.
 
 Even the amount of earnest money deposit (EMD) for competitor M/S Patel Engineering Limited was paid from the bank account of JV partner, R Balarami Reddy and Company from the SBI’s Khairatabad branch in Hyderabad. Hence, there was no free and fair competition in the tendering process, which was rigged, the PP said.
 
 The petitioners had challenged the FIR contending that there was no material against them and even the offences under which they were booked didn’t apply to them.
 
 
