HYDERABAD: Actor   made an attempt to mend fences with bitter critic   MP   on Saturday. He referred to her as younger sister and thanked her for her support in parliament on the demands of the people of AP.

 “I thank you from the bottom of my heart,” he said in a tweet in which he mentioned here. Describing her as ‘Chellelu Kavitha’, he thanked the TRS MP for her support to the people of AP regarding the “pledged words & promises” made by the centre in the Parliament at the time of state bifurcation.
 
 When Jana Sena Party (JSP) was launched by Pawan Kalyan on March 14, 2014, the actor specifically targeted Kavitha for attack. He had demanded that she should make public the accounts of Telangana Jagruthi, an NGO that she founded. During the run-up to the polls, only Kavitha but her brother   and TRS President   had poked fun at Pawan Kalyan in their meetings describing him as a ‘joker’.
 
 However, in recent times, the past was forgotten. IT minister K T Rama Rao met Pawan Kalyan last year and even posted a selfie with the actor. Pawan Kalyan met chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao at Pragathi Bhavan on new year’s day and appreciated him for his work.
 
 After Kavitha spoke in the   on February 8 urging the centre to settle the issues of the state bifurcation and listen to the plea of ‘Andhra brothers’ on their demands in parliament, an impressed Pawan Kalyan extended an olive branch to Kavitha thanking her in a tweet. The Nizamabad MP, however, was yet to respond.
 
 In more tweets, Pawan Kalyan raised questions about the ‘special package’ of the centre for Andhra Pradesh. “There is an urgent need for a Joint Fact Finding Committee(JFC) comprising economists, financial experts, ex-public servants, academicians, scholars, and socio-political Leaders to probe the conflicting and contradictory statements by the Centre and also the Andhra Pradesh government on the ‘special package’.
 
 “Joint Fact Finding Committee(JFC) will objectively analyse the AP bifurcation act and what it promised without any personal, political or idealogical bias. Based on that report, political action will be decided by Joint Political action committee(JPAC),” he said.
 
