NOIDA:   constables in plain clothes nabbed three persons for catcalling women and girl students in Greater Noida on Thursday. The accused, Vinod Kumar and Naresh, both residents of Tugalpur in Kasna and Kuldeep, an original resident of Baghpat, were handed over to Kasna   after recording their arrest. 

 According to Brajesh Verma, inspector and in-charge of  , so far   persons have been   under Section 294 of IPC and Section 151 of CrPC.
 
 The ‘Operation Pink’ team, deployed at Sector P3 roundabout, spotted three accused singing songs and passing lewd comments at women and girls who crossed the road. Constables Indu Malik and Alka Kundu immediately responded to the offence and nabbed the accused. They were arrested and sent to judicial custody. 
 
 SSP Ajay Pal Sharma had on May 1 launched a week-long campaign, Operation Pink, whereby 21 teams comprising women police personnel in plain clothes were deployed at 50 spots in Noida and Greater Noida. The teams are headed by a nodal officer, SP (crime) Preeti Bala Gupta, one inspector, five sub-inspectors and 78 women constables.
 
 The teams conducted a week-long assessment drive and the observation was eye-opening. Sharma said that a woman cop was in plain clothes deployed near a market. “A man approached her and struck a conversation. He soon started asking for her mobile number,” he said.
 
 A woman constable said that a few days ago she was deployed in Surajpur area. “A man was staring at me as I was in plain clothes. I looked back and asked why he was staring at me. He started arguing with me. I held the accused and alerted police personnel upon which he was arrested,” she said. 
 
 The police team analysed the feedback and divided crime spots into three grades, Grade I, Grade II and Grade III, depending on the sensitivity of crime. In Noida, Atta Market, Film City, Sector 27 (D) Block, Vishwa Bharti Public School Sector 25, Amity University, GIP Mall, Sadarpur Market, Steller Park Sector 62, Mamura Chowk, Mahamaya Balika Inter College Sector 51, etc were categorized in Grade I.
 
 In Greater Noida, areas outside all the schools were marked in Grade I. Besides this, Galgotias College, Tugalpur Mandi, Alfa Commercial Belt, Rampur Market, Grand Venice Mall, Jagat Farm, Kasna Bus Stand, Ameekchand Inter College, Haldauni Crossing, etc are put in Grade 1.
 
 Preeti Bala Gupta, SP (crime) Gautam Budh Nagar said that the personnel record the activities through button cameras and also using mobile phones. “If they catch an accused, the personnel alert the police team kept on standby mode at the spot. The police team brings the accused to the police station and complete the legal formalities to send him jail,” she said.
 
 Noida police chief said that in the coming days, the cops will provide self-defence training to school students and make them aware about such harassments and measures to deal with them.
 
 
