Kolkata: A city court has remanded Hindu Samhati founder Tapan Ghosh and three others in police custody till Saturday. The chief metropolitan magistrate granted the police plea that they need the trio in custody to trace the 16 family members who were lined up on the dais on Rani Rashmani Avenue on Wednesday — the first public display of “ghar wapsi” in the city. Of the three, one of the accused was allegedly involved in the Basirhat riots case too.

 Public prosecutor Abhijeet Chatterjee told the court that it was “imperative to speak to those who actually triggered the incident to ascertain the whole truth.” Chatterjee also argued that the attack on the media when they tried to talk to the family members was a “ calculated one” and that several more people were involved.
 
 Realizing what the cops were hinting at, the defence counsels wanted to know why the police were keen on questioning these 16 people when they have slapped an “attempt to murder” charge on the accused. “You have to tell us if there is a separate case lodged by the state. I find it difficult to make out how a case lodged over assault on the media is related to one’s choice of religion,” said Tirthankar Roy, the defence lawyer.
 
 The case took a turn when it was found that one of the arrested was named in the Basirhat riot case as well. Lawyers sifted through police records to confirm his age because some claimed he was an adult, though defence lawyers claimed that he was still a minor. Police records in court showed he was an adult, while the defence lawyers claimed he was a minor and thus can only be tried in a juvenile court. The public prosecutor in the Basirhat case had pleaded for cancellation of the youth’s bail plea on the ground that he was “getting entangled with several organizations detrimental for his well-being”.
 
 A police team — led by ACPs — virtually turned the court premises into a fortress. When Ghosh was brought to court along with others around 1.30pm, only a handful of his supporters were present. When he was produced in court — along with other undertrials, including two alleged JMB terrorists — around 50 of his supporters crowded the courtroom.
 
 
