NOIDA: The 32nd edition of   will begin from 23 to 25 February. The three-day annual event has been put together jointly by   and  . While theme flower this year is  , the show will also showcase   that gobble up toxins and leave your environment cleaner for you to breathe both inside and outside your homes.

 To be hosted at the Ramleela grounds in Sector 21A, the show will begin on Friday, February 23 at 3.30 pm. “The best varieties of the ‘Petunia’ flower along with 600 other varieties of flowers would be extensively showcased during the show," said Deepa Pasricha of the Floriculture Society. “Petunias are one of the most popular flowers, often grown as annuals and ideal for hanging baskets,” she explained.
 
 Gardening is fun but when living in a city, space is an issue. To circumvent that this year the society will have a special display on vertical gardens, both indoors and outdoors, for green enthusiasts. “Another highlight of the show will be how to conserve water and still indulge in gardening,” Pasricha said. “The need of the hour is to recharge ground water as well as to stop wastage of water. We have two experts coming during the show to give lectures of the topic. We will also hand out pamphlets to create awareness amongst the public,” she added.
 
 Vasant Utsav will also focus on plants that control air pollution. “Plants not only take in carbon dioxide they can absorb impressive amounts of other toxins and pollutants as they perform their daily functions, enabling them to act as efficient air and water filters,” Manju Grover, another office bearer of the society explained. “In the home, this has remarkable implications,” she said. “At the show, experts will give lectures and demonstrate how several common and easy to care for plants can be grown and cared for to live a healthy life,” she added.
 
 Speaking to TOI, Director Horticulture, Noida Authority, Omveer Singh said that to motivate individuals they will distribute more than 1000 free shrubs to children who will participate in the painting competition to be held on February 25. “The idea is to encourage more and more people to become green enthusiasts so that Noida’s green cover is also enhanced besides promoting a pollution-free environment,” said Singh.
 
 During the show top garden designers will be head-to-head in competition to win Chairman’s trophy. Other prizes for the taking include 40 different categories. Prizes will be distributed on February 25. Entry is free for the event from gate number 6 of the ground.
 
  
 
  
 
