JAIPUR: Rooftop restaurants, discotheques and bars without fire exits and parking facilities will come under strict scrutiny in the state.

 In a bid to prevent fire accidents, the local self-government department has directed municipal corporations and councils to start a drive and inspect every rooftop restaurant across the state.
 
 Those flouting norms on fire safety, parking and other civic rules would be penalized under the Rajasthan Nagar Palika Act 2009. The move comes after the fire tragedy at a rooftop restaurant in Kamala Mills, Mumbai, which claimed 13 lives.
 
 The city has many reputed properties which doesn't have a fire exit or parking space. “Those who cannot comply with the rules will face closure,” said Manjit Singh, principal secretary, local self-government department. According to the detailed order, the department has found several rooftop restaurants running without permission in both residential and commercial areas.
 
 “These illegal places neither have proper fire safety mechanisms nor parking and are vulnerable to accidents. It has also come to the notice that they play loud music till late in the night causing inconvenience to people. They indiscriminately use gas cylinders which can cause incidents like in Mumbai,” the order read.
 
 Local civic bodies will survey rooftop restaurants, bars and discotheques running in malls, residential complexes aiming to prevent any untoward incident. Jaipur mayor   said, “Already, a committee has been set up here to check the security and status of these restaurants. After this committee submits its report, appropriate action will be taken on errant owners.”
 
 Kuldeep Singh, president,  , said that the government should give some time to property owners. “Any such order during the peak of tourist season will affect business. The industry will comply with all the norms,” said Singh. However, Singh refused to give any time to these restaurants for compliance. “If they need time for compliance, they should close down and comply. Ideally, they should have done it before opening these properties,” he said.
 
 
