KANYAKUMARI: As Gujarat chief minister,   had made optimum use of space applications for development of that state, said   chairman K Sivan. Now, as Prime Minister, his directions have led to many government departments coming up with solutions obtained through   technology, said Sivan, adding that Isro is actively working on 158 projects, 120 of them at a fast pace.

 At a felicitation function at his native Sarakkal Vilai village in Kanyakumari district, Sivan, now the top man in the space research organisation, said 42 Indian satellites are in space and that at least 45 more were needed.
 
 The country was now launching a satellite every two months and efforts were on to launch more satellites so that the common man can benefit, he said. Satellite technology can be used to not only identify water spots but also trace naxalites. Satellites lined up for launch will take high speed connectivity, tele-medicine and tele-education to all corners of the country.
 
 On the indigenously developed NavIC navigation system and app, Sivan said it will be given to 500 fishermen in Kerala and to 200 fishermen in Kanyakumari. A trial of NavIC conducted with fishermen in Kerala proved it could be very beneficial. The app will give them information in their native language about adverse weather and help them reach the shore in time.
 
 “It will help fishermen identify fishing spots and give their location to avoid crossing territorial waters,” he said.
 
 Asked about manned mission, Sivan said Isro’s priority is meeting the immediate requirements of the people. “We are preparing technology required for the man mission and will launch it when we are ready,” he said.
 
 The development of semi cryogenic engines was on and it will take time before it can be put to use, he said.   member A Vijayakumar, MLAs S Austin (Kanyakumari), N Suresh Rajan (Nagercoil), J G Prince (Colachel), P Rajesh Kumar (Killiyoor) and   ( ), Kanyakumari collector Sajjan Singh R Chavan, Superintendent of police N Sreenatha participated.
 
