CHENNAI/JAIPUR: At a time when ICC is striving to pull crowds to watch Test cricket,   and MS Dhoni have attracted close to 15,000 spectators just for their practice sessions! Chepauk is roaring again after a gap of two years.

 
 
 
 The return of   champions   and CSK has definitely garnered greater interest among fans. Both franchisees have ensured that the group they have put together is more of a family reunion. Stephen Fleming’s calmness and an ebullient Shane Warne bring a lot to the dugout for CSK and RR respectively. There were no better candidates than MS Dhoni and Steve Smith to build on the overall brand value, which the teams had enjoyed in the past, and also bring joy to their loyal fans who have celebrated their return in a crazy manner.
 
 
 
 Dhoni, who hasn’t led a cricket team since 2016, will be determined to prove that he is still the king of the jungle and it was evident when he hit the ground running in a three-member optional practice session on the very first day.
 
 But for Royals, things haven’t gone according to plan. The ball-tampering saga involving ‘Golden Boy’ Smith and his subsequent ban has thrown a spanner in the works. It remains to be seen whether Ajinkya Rahane, the vice-captain of the Indian Test team, can step up to the leadership challenge in his maiden stint as IPL captain.
 
 “The incident in Cape Town has certainly disturbed the cricket world. Steve believes given the current circumstances, it’s in the best interest of the Royals that he steps down as captain so that the team can get ready for the start of the IPL without the ongoing distractions,” said Zubin Bharucha, Royals head of cricket.
 
 While Royals strive to “protect the values and integrity of the game” post ‘Sandpaper’ gate, CSK’s focus is firmly on recreating the success they have achieved over eight years. “We will try and recreate some of the success that CSK had in the first eight years. Everything is familiar ... right back to the first hotel where we formed our friendships and got a lot of success as a team,” Fleming mentioned. 
 
 On the selection front, CSK have banked on experienced campaigners and allrounders comprising the likes of Suresh Raina, Ravindra Jadeja, Dwayne Bravo, Shane Watson and Harbhajan Singh, while Rajasthan typically have invested crores on the energetic legs of Ben Stokes, Jaydev Unadkat, Sanju Samson and Rahul Tripathi. Fan connection has been one of CSK’s biggest USPs over the last decade. When they were suspended, the “CSK Army” chanted: “No CSK, no IPL.” Dhoni was spot on when he said that their fan base has only increased during their two-year absence rather than the other way around.
 
