RAIPUR: "Either provide me treatment so that I can lead a life of dignity or allow me euthanasia as I have failed to fight against my physical disorder and despite completing graduation, I am of no help to my old father." This is what a 26-year-old woman suffering from cerebral palsy has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi. 

 The woman, who hails from tribal   district of Chhattisgarh, is presently in Delhi with her elderly grandmother with the hope to personally meet the Prime Minister.
 
 Everything was going well for Sunita Mahant, while she was undergoing physiotherapy at a primary health centre in Kunkuri block, few metres away from her home. Things started to fall apart after she clicked photographs of the poor sanitary conditions of a toilet at the health centre and forwarded it to Jashpur collector. She was denied treatment the very next day, Sunita said, adding that she was referred to a hospital 42 kilometres away, citing lack of resources at the health centre.
 
 When contacted, Jashpur collector Priyanka Shukla said that the district administration was doing everything possible to mitigate Sunita's pain.
 
 "I had got her bus passes prepared for hassle-free travel. The social welfare team is in regular touch with her. They are counselling her and finding out ways to provide her aid," the collector said.
 
 The chief medical health officer of Kunkuri, Raj Lallan Tiwari, said that the matter has come to his knowledge and he would order doctors to resume her physiotherapy soon.
 
 Sunita's story unfurls loopholes in the healthcare system of the state. She was being given treatment for polio until she was finally diagnosed with cerebral palsy at the age of 21. With a slurred speech, Sunita told TOI over the phone from Delhi, "It isn't possible for me to travel 42 kilometres every day to Jashpur hospital and my health is deteriorating since it has been more than six months I was denied physiotherapy". 
 
 "When I approached the Chhattisgarh government, I was given a monetary help of Rs 1 lakh but that's not enough as the treatment is continuous and costly. Everyone in the government circle told me 'Modiji can solve your problem'. That is why I've come to Delhi to meet him", Sunita added.
 
 Aiming to pursue her studies in MCA, Sunita said, "I lost my mother as a child and was looked after my father who retired as a postman. He has spent all his earnings for my treatment and despite being a graduate, I have failed him. I am a burden upon him."
 
 Sunita is camping in Delhi since the past one week under the care of Vishnudeo Sai, the Union minister of state for steel and mines, who also belongs to Jashpur. The minister has extended his support and arranged her accommodation and food and is also trying to give her the best treatment.
 
 Indicating the spirit of a fighter, Sunita said that if she is given a government job, she would take care of her treatment. She said the struggle she has to undertake to receive her mandatory treatment is more painful than death and that is why she has written the letter to the Prime Minister.
 
 
