JAIPUR: The   has become a source for   right under the watchful eyes of the district administration and police.

 On Saturday (January 27, 2018),   (AWBI) honorary officers who had gone to the   fair had to run for their lives. They were even chased and attacked by a mob in front of police.
 
 “The Nagaur fair has become a source for cattle and animal traffickers. Camels are found trafficked in far-fetched states like Assam, West Bengal, Bihar, Telangana, Karnataka, etc. This concern was raised by the AWBI officers with the administration. Later that day, the AWBI officers were attacked by a mob instigated by the traffickers. It was shocking and surprising to see the audacity of traffickers in front of the police to threaten AWBI officers. There was absolutely no action by police to stop the mob and AWBI officers had to run for their lives in their vehicle. Even then they were chased and attacked by mob in front of the police,” said Shivan Chanana, honorary officer with AWBI.
 
 The honorary officers of AWBI had gone to Nagaur fair to tell the officials to follow the rules, laws and norms to stop any kind of cruelty and trafficking of cattle and camels. AWBI officers also spotted a pick-up Bolero stuffed with calves taken from the fair which was a violation of PCA Act 1960.
 
 “It was violation of fair rules where calves less than three years are not allowed for sale and purchase. The major issue was that the clear violation of fair rules by the administration and there was no response to stop these violations by the police even after providing a written complaint in the Kotwali Nagaur, police station. The police station did not even give a receiving of the complaint,” said Shivan.
 
 But when spoken to, SP Nagaur, Paris Deshmukh, said, “We received the complaint by a SMS that mentioned the vehicle number. We tracked the owner and went to his house. Based on his statement, we inquired in the village and got to know that he had taken his cattle to the fair and while he was returning back with them the AWBI people stopped them. We found that he had proper receipts for transportation and the calves were not being trafficked. Villagers protested in the way AWBI people stopped the vehicle. As for the age of the cattle, that needs to be ascertained.”
 
 
