AHMEDABAD: A special anti-corruption court in   denied regular and temporary bail, sought for a week, to  , in connection with   levelled against him earlier this month.

 Sharma’s advocate H B Champavat said the application for regular bail was filed last week and the plea for temporary bail from March 24 to March 31 was filed in court two days later. A separate application for temporary bail was filed apprehending that a decision on regular bail could be delayed. 
 
 “Temporary bail was sought by Sharma to view his son Prashant’s wedding via video conferencing with other family members who were unable to attend the wedding, which will take place on March 30 in the US. There is a small gathering of family members on the wedding day in India too and they plan to watch the wedding via video call. We thought that if granted bail for a few days, Sharma could also join the gathering,” the advocate said.
 
 On Monday, the court rejected both applications after the prosecution objected, on the grounds that Sharma should have revealed his plans to attend the gathering on his son’s wedding in his application for regular bail.
 
 Meanwhile, Gujarat high court on Tuesday asked the state government to file an affidavit in response to Sharma’s petition seeking quashing of the FIR. On March 9, the   filed an FIR with Bhavnagar police station stating that when Sharma was the managing director of Bhavnagar-based Alcock Ashdown (Gujarat) Ltd in 2007-08, he allegedly demanded and received Rs 25 lakh from a contractor named Sahayraj Savarimutthu. This was allegedly in exchange for approval of payments to Sahayraj.
 
 Sharma was detained and arrested as soon as he left Sabarmati central jail after the HC granted him bail in connection with a money laundering case.
 
 Sharma was first arrested in 2010 by ACB sleuths from Bhavnagar in connection with irregularities in the allotment of land in Bhuj. 
 
 Later, he faced charges of favouring a private firm by allotting land at prices lower price than the market rate and then benefiting from the company by making his wife a 30% partner in a subsidiary firm of the company without any investment.
 
 Sharma has had 10 FIRs lodged against him in the last eight years.
 
 
