NEW DELHI: Once a sought-after posting for babus of the Union territory cadre of the Indian Administrative Service (AGMUT), Delhi is now associated with a bitter tug-of- war between the   government and the bureaucracy. As things stand today, a transfer to Goa or Mizoram is no longer seen as a punishment and a move to the Centre is a relief rather than a promotion.

 The overtly political centre-state tussle has come to define the dynamics of governance in the city. In a statement on Wednesday, the IAS, DANICS and DASS associations said that the alleged attack on the chief secretary amounted to a “functional crisis and breakdown of governance”. The bodies added, “This is the culmination of a series of incidents of officers being subjected to verbal abuse and intimidation by political authorities.”
 
  
  
 Indeed, over three years the relations between the bureaucrats and political executive have remained constantly turbulent. Last year, there was a very public spat with then chief secretary MM Kutty, who must have been pleased to move to the Union finance ministry after a year in Delhi. PWD and vigilance secretary Ashwini Kumar also found himself in the firing line over desilting of drains, before being sent to Puducherry as chief secretary.
 
 This year, Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board CEO Shurbir Singh has been in the eye of a storm over a bank-related case being scrutinised by a committee of the Delhi Assembly. Jayadev Sarangi, secretary in charge of information and publicity in Delhi government, has similarly found himself being hauled up for procedures involved in the issuing of advertisements. There also is Keshav Chandra, who was drawn into a controversy after expressing dissent as CEO of Delhi Jal Board and is now in the Union ministry of commerce.
 
 The list of those who were once in Delhi’s key departments but have since been posted in central ministries has grown longer since 2015, when the first tussle broke out after the then lieutenant governor appointed IAS officer Shakuntala Gamlin as acting chief secretary. She was accused of not following the AAP government’s orders and of toeing the centre’s line in delaying files. Her colleagues, like Dharampal, who once held charge of the home department, Chetan Sanghi, whose portfolios including vigilance and urban development, and Chandrakar Bharti, who was in the health and environment departments, too had torrid relationships with the state government.
 
 The bone of contention has been the “rule book”. In most of these cases, the government has decried the officers not following its directions. Delhi high court’s judgment of August 5, 2016 only gave the political executive the reason to complain, “The LG appoints the bureaucrats, we have no say and thus they do not follow our directions.”
 
 What started in 2015 as an odd fight was firmly established as an established feature of Delhi’s governance in 2017. In between, 2016 began on a sour note with the CM reacting strongly to the protest leave availed of by DANICS and IAS officers in December 2015 and ended with the associations of bureaucrats belonging to the AGMUT cadre of IAS and DANICS adopting a resolution against “injustices of any kind by the political executive of the Delhi government meted out to the officers of the state government in discharge of their duties.”
 
 While 2017 witnessed a more public wrangling between the babus and the government, 2018 has begun on a new low that threatens to adversely impact governance in the city.
 
 
