NEW DELHI: Former Karnataka CM Siddaramaiah bears the rustic looks of a person stubborn and domineering, who earned a reputation of being ambitious and uncompromising in the course of a bumpy political career. 

 Having rebelled against mentor Deve Gowda's "dynasty politics", Siddaramaiah found a new home in Congress, one that is often suspicious of "outsiders", but went on to upstage a packed field of worthies to become CM. And also one to serve a full five-year term.
 
 But his fall from grace has been sudden, ousted from office after he spent months claiming to be destiny's child - an equal to the legendary Devraj Urs who gave OBCs a political identity. Siddaramaiah's very unbending nature that seemed to be visionary, is being blamed for Congress's shattered fort.
 
 The Kuruba OBC is hailed variously as an astute politician, an expert in finance and budget, and, the best compliment, a fighter in the profession of the conniving. But even in the eyes of admirers, he went horribly wrong on the basics this time.
 
 Siddaramaiah held out against repeated suggestions that he should not contest from two seats - that it would send out a message of vulnerability and tie him in personal campaigning (a close adviser said it cost Siddaramaiah 10 crucial days). 
 
  It all started when JD(S) provoked him into machismo and challenged him to contest from Chamundeshwari - his old seat, a Vokkaliga fort, that he won repeatedly as a colleague of Deve Gowda. 
 
 Siddaramaiah succumbed but also struck by "dynasty politics", he fielded son Yathindra from his own safe seat Varuna. He quickly realised his folly and started lobbying for a second seat - Badami. Partymen lament that Siddaramaiah could have stuck to safe Varuna. As for his doctor-son, his political baptism could have come through an assembly byelection or in the council or even a Rajya Sabha seat.
 
 The defeat in Karnataka rankles Congress because Siddaramaiah's confidence - in the AHINDA plank, economic growth and welfare schemes - had swayed the leadership to the point of pitching the state polls as a harbinger of a revival that Rahul Gandhi confidently predicted the party will win. In the end, anti-incumbency trumped Congress. 
 
  What's worse for the party is that it had gambled on many issues - secularism, geographical limits of Narendra Modi-led BJP, sub-nationalism to dilute saffron nationalism. And the buck is stopping with Siddaramaiah. 
 
 
