Ludhiana: Much to the dismay of residents, traffic cops who have launched a drive against wrong parking and other traffic violations, themselves do not stick to the rules themselves. The traffic   have established a halt at the Kapoor Hospital Chowk near the old vegetable market, old city. Outside halt the cops have encroached on about 20 metres of the area, where barricades have been installed to make space for parking their personal vehicles. The   done by traffic cops on the main Chowk also disrupts traffic. 

 To manage the traffic chaos in the city the traffic police have got strict over wrong parking. Besides, for the last couple of months, they have started lodging FIRs against stationary vehicles under section 283 (danger or obstruction in public way or line of navigation) of IPC. The commissioner of police R N Dhoke had said that point of time that if any vehicle was seen parked on the road due to negligence of the driver, cops would book him. He added such vehicles are causing fatal accidents. All SHOs and traffic police officials have been asked to keep a check on vehicles in their areas and take action.
 
 Following the orders of the top cop the traffic police started installing special checkpoints in different areas of the city and booked several people whose vehicle were parked on the road including the stationary vehicles in this context. 
 
 However the top officials have turned blind eyes on the violation by their own cops. The Kapoor Hospital chowk is among the busiest areas of the city which connects the old vegetable market, Daresi, Damoriya Bridge, Meena Bazaar, Chaura Bazaar and AC Market. Though the traffic police has been deployed there which itself is dong violation. 
 
 A parent from Madhopuri, in Old city Sumil Mahendru said, “There is a huge flow of traffic in this area and during late afternoon and evening hours, the traffic gets worse. I drop and pick my children to school daily and every day school buses get stuck here causing huge jam. And above this the cops have done encroachment on the road which is being neglected.” 
 
 Importantly, there are paid parking facilities near the chowk like parking for the staff of Kapoor hospital, parking under Municipal Corporation and multilevel parking.
 
 The owner of a clothing store near the hospital on condition of anonymity said, “When people park vehicles wrongly the traffic police tell them in seconds however nobody bothers when the cops violate norms. The traffic police have covered about 20 meters area of the main chowk and senior authorities are mum over it. It is pure bias.” 
 
 The official quote awaited….
 
 
