NEW DELHI: After putting up a valiant fight against Indian football’s giants,  , in their last fixture of the  , where the   held the Kolkata outfit to a 1-1 draw, another fresh challenge awaits the young Arrows side, this time at home in the form of table-toppers  .

 For the uninitiated, East Bengal could be runaway favourites, boasting of star players, with the slice of history backing their campaign – the Kolkata club have won the country’s premier domestic football tournament ( ) on three occasions before it was rechristened as the I-League in 2007. Currently, in the ongoing season, they have 14 points from seven matches.
 
 However, writing off the Arrows just would be a big mistake. To begin with, they played a 1-1 draw the other day against Mohun Bagan in Kolkata and that too, with just 10 players at their disposal. Before that, Arrows blanked Shillong Lajong FC 3-0.
 
 But what would boost their confidence further is East Bengal’s lack of preparation time for the match in Delhi’s cold and foggy weather. The ‘Red and Gold’ brigade arrived in Delhi way past midnight on Sunday after travelling from Imphal following their 1-1 draw against NEROCA FC, which saw them concede a last-minute goal to lose two crucial points. To make the matters worse, they are staying at a Ghaziabad hotel.
 
 It’s been learnt that due to fog delaying their scheduled flight, the East Bengal team management had shot off a letter to the All India Football Federation (AIFF) to reschedule their match for Wednesday, a request promptly turned down by the federation.
 
 Coach Khalid Jamil knows that all these scenarios could make the Arrows a very “dangerous side” to beat on their home turf.
 
 “Arrows are playing good football. There is a lot of confidence and they play as a unit on the field. It is evident that they are hungry,” said Khalid, who had guided Aizawl FC to a historic title triumph in the last edition.
 
 Jamil added that his side would look to exploit the absence of Arrows’ goalkeeper Dheeraj Singh to their advantage. “Not having to face him will be a huge advantage for us.”
 
 Arrows will also be without regular captain Amarjit Singh Kiyam.
 
 
