PUNE: The residents of seven villages fearing loss of land for the construction of   airport would prevent government representatives from entering the area and deactivate their accounts with nationalized banks to rule out the possibility of direct transfer of compensation amount against the acquired plots.

 
  
 
 The developments are contrary to chief minister Devendra Fadnavis’ believe that land acquisition for the proposed airport would not be an issue. His comment, in fact, has not gone down well with the villagers.
 
 The recent developments related to the airport project prompted a string of meetings in the villages. The landowners decided against allowing any government representatives enter the villages. A decision to deactivate their accounts in nationalized banks was also taken.
 
 “We had a meeting on May 14. Several of us went to the Saswad police station urging the police to arrest us. A fresh strategy is being worked out. We have decided not to let any official from the state government or the Centre enter any of the villages to be affected by the project,” said Jitendra Memane, the sarpanch (village head) of the Pargaon   village.
 
 The village head, also an active member of the Vimantal Virodhi Sangharsh Samiti (formed in early 2017), said they had several doubts in their minds. “We saw some representatives of nationalized banks going door-to-door on Wednesday, urging people to open accounts. They said people should have accounts so that they could avail different schemes of the Union and state governments for farmers and people. The villagers told them to leave immediately,” Memane said.
 
 He said these people had been coming to the villages for some days now. “It has been decided that all the existing accounts in nationalized banks would be discontinued. What if the government suddenly deposits money in our accounts and announces that the land is now theirs? There are many fears like these among the people,” Memane said.
 
 Another landowner said they had told the state government repeatedly that land would not be given for the project. “Let the administration arrest all of us and put us in jail if they are bent on taking our land,” he said.
 
 
