COIMBATORE: As people continue to raise concerns over the barricades set up in various pockets of the city to curb speed and also demarcate roads, the traffic department of the city police maintained that they would not be removed, saying they have helped reduce the number of fatal accidents.

 Last year, 104 fatal accidents were reported in the city from January till May 14. This year, the number has come down to 71.
 
 “Yes, we have had several representations to remove the barricades, but we have the numbers stating it has helped reduce the accidents. So, we will add more caution boards and reflective stickers, but will not remove the barricades,” said the deputy commissioner of traffic department,  .
 
 Residents, however, had a different story to tell. “In various locations, the barricades pose a hindrance to traffic. Yes, they curb speed, but also cause unnecessary congestion and sometimes, accidents. Most barricades do not even have reflective stickers and in many occasions, one barricade is placed randomly on the road,” said Rajesh Kumar, a commuter.
 
 As per a Madras high court order in December last, each barricade should have reflectors that are visible from a distance of 100 metres. The court also specified that the government should set up blinker lights on both the sides.
 
 “The barricades should be free of advertisements and the stripes on the rails should be alternating orange, fluorescent-red or florescent yellow-green combination. And unwanted barricades should be removed by the jurisdictional   and officers incharge of law and order wings,” said K  , secretary,  . The court had also said barricades should only be set up in accident-prone areas and where required, he said.
 
 Sujith Kumar said in the past four months only a single case of a person hitting the barricade was reported and the victim was undergoing treatment. “After several surveys, we found that it was speeding and drunken driving that cause accidents. So, we set up the barricades to curb speeding,” he said, adding, “The SITRA to Chinniyampalayam stretch was an accident hotspot. Thanks to the barricades, now the accident rate has come down considerably.”
 
 Pointing out that it was the duty of the corporation and the highways department to set up centre medians, a traffic police official said, “Since they are not doing it, we set up the barricades. As we do not have funds, we get sponsors to do it. If we need to set up blinkers and an ideal barricade, either the government should fund it, or the corporation should take it up.”
 
 Residents, however, said as barricades were set up randomly with gaps, people continue to take diversions and enter the one-way roads from the wrong side. “The officials need to take a look at the locations and remove them from some areas where they only cause more problem,” Kathirmathiyon said.
 
 
