CHENNAI:  's   (  ) match against   on Saturday was just a dead rubber for the hosts and coach   started with an almost unknown starting XI. But it was evident that the Englishman was confident in his fringe bunch because after the hosts defeated   FC 1-0 at the   here, the whole squad went to greet the supporters with a banner saying ‘We will meet you in the semifinals’.
 
 
 A penalty in the 67th minute from Rene Mihelic was enough as Chennaiyin finished second on the points table with 32 points from 18 games behind Bengaluru FC. Although their opponent in the semifinal will be determined by the FC Goa and Jamshedpur FC match on Sunday, Chennaiyin will now have the advantage of playing their second leg of the semifinals in front of a thunderous support from the home crowd on virtue of finishing second.
 
 Chennaiyin coach Gregory made as many as 8 changes to the first team on Saturday. The Chennaiyin stars who have been instrumental in taking them to the last four like Rafael Augusto, Henrique Sereno, Jeje Lalpehlua were rested ahead of the semifinals. In fact the starting XI on Saturday had made a combined 64 appearances in this season before this game.
 
 But none of it mattered when former Chennaiyin player Mehrajuddin Wadoo tripped Jaime Gavilan after an unnecessary challenge in the 67th minute of the game and the referee wasted no time in awarding the hosts with a penalty kick. Slovenian Mihelic, was calm and made no mistake as he slotted the ball home to help Chennaiyin’s cause.
 
 The hosts without their stars did not look concerned and took over the reins from early stages of the game. They kept pressing Mumbai and forced them to make mistakes. The hosts linked up well and created chances to rattle the faltering Mumbai defence. Saturday was the chance for the fringe players to make an impression and they made sure that Chennaiyin did not miss their regulars. Chennaiyin’s thrifty defence who have conceded only 19 goals this season continued their good work and though there was no Henrique Sereno or Mailson Alves, the Dhanachandra Singh-led defence line did not allow Mumbai too many chances.
 
 Chennaiyin forward Jude Nworuh specially was the menace for Mumbai in the first half of the game and his pace caused a lot of anxiety to their defenders. He almost gave the hosts the first goal in the eighth minute when he played the ball in between two defenders after a great run from the midfield. But Mumbai City stand in goalkeeper Arindam Bhattacharya pulled off a brave save to deny the hosts.
 
 Arindam proved to be the lone bright spot for Mumbai and made up for their almost non-existent defence line pulling off three excellent saves in the first half an hour of the game itself thwarting the host’s chances to draw the first blood.
 
 Mumbai City who had already bowed out of the league was desperate for a win to make the cut for Super Cup. Though they maneuverer into the game in the dying minutes of the first half, it wasn’t enough to threaten the hosts.
 
 The hosts survived a scare in the beginning of added time when Mumbai's Achille Emana Edzimbi took a free-kick and his low and powerful shot went past the wall and Chennaiyin’s debutant goalkeeper Pawan Kumar almost spilled the ball only to save it at the last minute. But the drama was saved for the last when Mumbai had a goal disallowed after Everton Santos was guilty of being inches offside when the ball was released off the cross. 
 
 
