PATIALA: Despite facing resistance from the villagers, the   (PMC) plans to go ahead and install its proposed integrated solid   management plant at Duddhar, which has remained in limbo for many years. The officials of the   have said that the garbage processing unit would get operational in the next three months at village Duddhar.

 Around 20 acres of land in Dudhar village was acquired on lease in 2013 by the PMC. The corporation said that it had given an amount of Rs 20 lakh to the village Panchayat as a part of the agreement. A detailed project report (DPR) -- outlining technical and financial aspects of the project – was also submitted to the government by the PMC a few months ago.
 
  
  
 
 “In the next three months, the plant would be operational. The agreement was done with the   village and only after their consent, the site was taken on lease,” said PMC commissioner  .
 
 “There are a few villagers, who don’t want the plant to be set up, which is not fair. The plant will not create any pollution on the back of modern technology. A report has been sent to the government and the work over it is being finalised,” he added.
 
 However, any move towards installing an integrated waste management plant would only invite more resistance from the villagers as they are already up in arms against this development. Not only this, the villagers also have a committee in place -- ‘Dump Virodhi Action Committee’ -- to fight against the installation of this plant.
 
 The villagers, who are resisting the move, said that they were worried over the rising pollution. They said that a poultry farm in Duddhar, a paper mill, a distillery and a polluted drain in Nain village were already taking their toll on the environment.
 
 “We are already seeing enough pollution from the industries here, and if this waste processing plant is also set up here then it would get really tough to survive. One can visit our village and see that people have developed skin diseases. This is because of the pollution. The solid waste plant will produce foul smell round the clock and would turn our lives into hell,” said Jagdev Singh of Dakala village.
 
 “The plant was proposed to be set up in this village during the SAD-BJP regime. At that point in time, some local Congress leaders also staged protest against setting up of this plant. Now that the Congress has come to power, instead of bringing a solution, it too wants to set up the plant here. We will not let this happen at any cost,” said Bharpoor Singh, who leads the  .
 
 However, the MC officials opine other wise and say that once operational, the plant will redress the issue of garbage disposal of Patiala and the nearby districts. The garbage processing unit would cater to as many as 26 towns from where 260 metric tonnes of solid waste will be recycled.
 
 Meanwhile, the PMC has proposed to float tenders of 25 USW bins, which would be installed at various places across the city. The MC had earlier said that it would collect the city’s garbage from these USW bins and further dump it at the solid waste management plant at village Duddhar.
 
 “We have already submitted a detailed project report to the state government and the plant would get operational soon. As of now, we are opening the tenders from February 19 for USW bins. The garbage will be collected from the USW bins and from there it would be dumped into the solid waste plant,” said MC Superintendent M M Sial.
 
 
