When   entered the  , Mumbai, yesterday at 11 am, he was hopeful about the trial in the Jiah Khan suicide case. The actress, also his former girlfriend, had hung herself on June 3, 2013, in her Juhu residence. More than four years after the incident, Sooraj, who is the prime accused in the case, was officially charged with abetment to suicide, under Section 306 of the IPC on January 30, 2018.

 On Wednesday, Sooraj’s case was called in at a little past 12, before the judge,  , in Court Room No. 39. The Special Public Prosecutor, representing the CBI (Central Bureau of Investigation), advocate RR Bhatnagar, was not present in the court, citing personal reasons. Jiah’s mother Rabiya Khan, the complainant in the case, was also absent. However, a representative of her legal team, headed by advocate  , was present in the courtroom with investigating officer Rajbhar from the CBI. 
 
 “We pointed out that the entire material, including the CBI report, has not been considered while framing charges. And because the special public prosecutor was absent, the court has kept the matter for a week later for compliance,” said Swapnil Ambure. According to Sooraj’s lawyer  , the judge Kavita Shirbhate wanted to issue summons to the witnesses. However, it could not be done because the list of witnesses was with the Special Public Prosecutor. He said, “My client requested the court to issue summons to the complainant (Rabiya), as the charges in the said matter are framed and now the matter is kept for evidence of witnesses. However, as the list of witnesses was not filed by the prosecution, the court has directed the prosecution to file the list of witnesses in the said matter.” The next date for hearing is February 21. 
 
 
 
 Prashant Patil said, “The complainant’s lawyer made certain submissions, which were objected to by us as the complainant has no locus to address the court directly even according to the court’s orders passed previously. I have filed a pursis to that effect that inspite of specific orders passed by the court, the complainant’s lawyer is directly addressing the court and has thus committed contempt of court’s orders.” 
 
 
 
 
