MADURAI/CHENNAI : The death toll from Sunday’s forest fire — which trapped an unsuspecting group of 36 trekkers in Kolukkumalai near Bodinayakanur in Tamil Nadu’s   district — climbed to 10 on Monday.

 The dead included six women;
 
 
 16 trekkers were in hospitals in Madurai and neighbouring areas. Ten others returned home after receiving first aid.
 
 More than 250 personnel from from the police and revenue departments and the  , which pressed helicopters into the mission from Sunday evening, rescued 23 people from the site.
 
 Several of the injured received first aid at Kurangai primary health centre before officials shifted them to secondary and tertiary care centres.
 
 
 Commandos carry an injured person to a base camp at Kurangani on Monday
 
 
 
 
 Only three of the 39 expedition members — most of them young professionals — were not at the scene and escaped.
 
 As the scope of the tragedy widened on Monday, evidence emerged that the forest department didn’t react with adequate speed to Forest Survey of India (FSI) alerts of a “thermal anomaly” near where the blaze surrounded trekkers.
 
 Chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami on Sunday said the government would order a probe into the trip organised by Chennai Trekking Club (CTC), founded by Peter Van Geit, a software professional and outdoorsman from Belgium who has lived in the state capital for almost 20 years.
 
 On Monday, Palaniswami said the club undertook the expedition without forest department nod. Forest areas are out of bounds for the public in summer when wild animals seeking water are a threat and forests are vulnerable to fires.
 
 Officials said the trekkers belonged to two groups and had gone on the trip through CTC and Tour De India Holidays Pvt Ltd, Erode. The first group comprised 27 CTC members; the 12 others went through Tour De India Holidays. The police registered a case under Section 174 of CrPC (suspicious death) against the owner of Tour De India Holidays Pvt Ltd, Erode.
 
 On Monday, an IAF team led by flight lieutenant   of Sulur in Coimbatore, airlifted bodies from the scorched hillsides and sprayed firefighting chemicals from helicopters to douse the blaze.
 
 An unmanned aerial vehicle was deployed to look for survivors in the forest.
 
 Officials identified the dead as D Vipin, 30, of Unnamalaikadai in Kanyakumari, SSuba, 28, of Thittakudi (Cuddalore), T Hemalatha, 30, of New Vilangudi (Madurai), J Punitha, 26, of Chengalpattu, T Tamilselvan, 26, of Kavunthampadi (Erode), N  , 26, of Kavunthampadi, K Akila, 27, of Kumbakonam, R  , 28, of Poonthamalli, M Divya of Valayapalayam (Erode) and T Nisha, 30, of Chennai.
 
 The blaze and the subsequent emergency caught the forest department napping. FSI sent out initial alerts at 11.20am on Sunday after its remote sensing sensors detected a thermal anomaly near Bodi in Theni. In the next three hours, the Dehradun-based organisation sent two more alerts but the department ignored these too. It wasn’t until 4.30pm — five hours after the first alert — that the forest department finally reacted.
 
 Locals said the fire broke out at noon on Sunday. S Sekar, an estate worker in Kolukkumalai, was one among the first to reach the spot. He said minor fires broke out once or twice a year, but he had not seen a blaze as intensive as the one on Sunday in recent years.
 
 Chief minister Palaniswami said the rescue mission, on his orders, was carried out a war footing. The state urged defence minister Nirmala Sitharaman to use helicopters in the rescue, he said. Deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam and ministers Dindigul C Srinivasan and C Vijayabaskar supervised the rescue efforts.
 
 The government received a communication from Prime Minister   mourning the deaths in the forest fire and wishing those undergoing treatment a speedy recovery.
 
