CHENNAI: Days after actor-turned-politician   asked students to focus on learning English for a secure future, his competitor Kamal Haasan on Thursday insisted on the importance of the mother tongue, Tamil, at the inauguration of an event at a city college.

  In his address to students at  , the 64-year-old budding politician said, “I am told 99% of the gathering here understands Tamil. I thank the remaining 1% for your love. Now let us talk (in Tamil) amongst ourselves.”
 
 Kamal asked students to keep vigil over prevailing politics. 
  
 
 “I am not asking you to become politicians. You owe a duty to the nation to be vigilant and to know what your political stance is going to be. We have not been watchful in the past, which is what led to the degradation in politics today,” Kamal told the listening students.
 
 Rajini had similar advice for students, but with emphasis on their education. 
 
 “Set your focus on studies and not on anything else. You are shouldering many responsibilities including your future and the happiness of your parents. Understand politics, but do not get involved in it while you are in college,” he said.
 
 Meanwhile, Kamal appealed to students to strengthen the arm of polity.
 
  “I thought I will stick to my job (as an actor), but politicians failed to do their job, which is why I had to enter politics. I want you (students) to strengthen the arm of polity. I am a polity-culturist. I am going to die in your service,” he said. 
 
 Kamal invited students to bring their ideas for improving Tamil Nadu to his party   (MNM).
 
 Acknowledging that the ‘centre’ position taken by MNM has been panned by many, Kamal said, “There is no shame at being in the maiam (centre). Maiam is like the weighing scale needle. It is the best position to judge which side is better for us. We will take a position on the political spectrum after we conduct our observation.”
 
 At the Women’s Day celebrations conducted by MNM, its president Kamal stressed on the need for improving the male-female sex ratio. The 64-year old told the gathering of about 2,000 that he will release his party   in six months.
 
 
