MYSURU: The   has helped me get a clearer picture of which candidates has a greater connect with the people, and has a better chance of winning the elections, said   state president   on Tuesday.

 Yeddyurappa, at a media interaction held at Hotel President here on Tuesday, said, “Travelling across the state during the rally brought me in contact with party workers, aspiring to contest the 2018 polls. I was able to assess their popularity among the people in these constituencies, which will help their chances in getting tickets. Only those leaders who have the support of the public will be given tickets. By doing this, BJP will be able to win 150 seats easily.”
 
 Dubbing the results forecast by pollsters as ‘premature’, the former   opined that surveys carried a month before the start of the elections carried more weight. “BJP has carried out its own internal survey, which predicts we will get a clear majority in the state. We are focusing on strengthening the party at the grassroots level,” said Yeddyurappa.
 
 On the subject of farmer organisations staging demonstrations to protest the injustice meted out to the state in the Mahadayi Row, Yeddyurappa alleged that CM   was instigating outfits in the southern region of the state to hold agitations although they were not concerned with the problem in North Karnataka.
 
 Charging that the Mahadayi dispute was created by the Congress, Yeddyurappa said, “When Congress was ruling in Goa, the leaders in the state met the then party national president Sonia Gandhi, and conveyed to her that they would not release water to Karnataka. When Rane was CM, he approached the Supreme Court, claiming that water dispute cannot be resolved through a discussion.”
 
 Adding that the BJP was trying to resolve the dispute outside the jurisdtiction of the tribunal, Yeddyurappa pointed out that the Congress, in both Karnataka and Goa, was preventing it. “They want to politicize the issue and gain votes out of it,” he added.
 
 Yeddyurappa alleged that farmers who protested outside the BJP’s office in Bengaluru were backed by the Congress. “They whould have held the protest in front of the CM’s office,” he said.
 
 ‘CM, Mahadevappa searching for safe constituencies’
 
 Training his guns on both Siddaramaiah and JD(S) national president HD Deve Gowda, Yeddyurappa stated that both the leaders would be defeated in the upcoming election. Alluding to reports of Mysuru district in-charge minister HC Mahadevappa from a constituency in Bengaluru, Yeddyurappa said, “Siddaramaiah and Mahadevappa are searching for constituencies where they have a greater chance of victory since they are likely to be defeated in their own segments. Both leaders have not initiated development projects in their constituencies.”
 
 On former PM Deve Gowda’s remarks on not allying with the BJP, Yeddyurappa said, “BJP has the strength of God, and the public. Those (Gowda) who are not capable of winning the elections on their own will give such statements.”
 
 Yeddyurappa also announced that he would make efforts to have the Talavara and Parivara communities under the Scheduled Tribe (ST) category, while demanding a probe into the illegal detention of Mysuru advocate and the district BJP Yuva Morcha president Gokul Govardhan by Nazarbad police. Yeddyurappa sought the suspension of the sub-inspector of Nazarbad police station.
 
 
