MYSURU/BENGALURU: The   party's decision to field chief minister   only from Chamundeshwari in   and not from Badami as a second constituency, at the insistence of AICC chief  , has energised his followers in Mysuru district, though partymen in   are upset.

 
 It's said that Rahul Gandhi decided against the CM contesting from two constituencies as this would have sent a wrong signal of Siddaramaiah not being confident of winning from Chamundeshwari. 
 
 However, the decision has disappointed Congressmen in North Karnataka as they feel the CM's candidature would have had an influence on adjoining constituencies and helped the electoral prospects of the party's other candidates.
 
 KPCC president G Parameshwara, who returned to Bengaluru late Sunday evening, said that both he and the CM would be contesting from one constituency each. "I had never asked for a second constituency,'' he added.
 
 Siddaramaiah, meanwhile, will be campaigning in Chamundeshwari for two days from Monday. His supporters said the one-seat contest will show Siddaramaiah means business.
 
 "It is now clear that Siddaramaiah will become the CM again only if he registers victory from Chamundeshwari," one of his aides said, adding, "He wants to get elected. Now that he is contesting from a single segment it is for the cadres to fulfil his wish."
 
 KPCC working president S R Patil, who hails from Bagalkot, told media that Siddaramaiah contesting from north Karnataka would have helped the party. The ticket has now been given to Dr Devraj Patil, a practising paediatrician at Bagalkot. He has been a close associate of Siddaramaiah for two decades and belongs to anti-Chimmanakatti group in the constituency. Chimmanakatti is likely to contest as a rebel.
 
 A Bagalkot report said S R Patil is angry with the high command for denying ticket to sitting Badami MLA B B Chimmanakatti, who had agreed to vacate the seat for the CM.
 
 Talking to reporters in Bagalkot, he said he will soon take a decision on how to convey his disappointment to the party high command. Chimmanakatti too expressed dissatisfaction over being denied a ticket.
 
