NAGPUR: The   (NU) has made National Accreditation and Assessment Council ( ) or Quality Control of India (QCI) assessment a must for granting affiliation to education colleges offering Bachelor of Education (BEd), Master of Education (MEd), Bachelor of Physical Education (BPEd) and Master of Physical Education (MPEd) courses from the upcoming academic year.

 Appointment of full-time faculty members or university approved teachers and proper infrastructure as per   ( ) recognition norms have been given due weightage on the assessment scale of 200 marks.
 
 The stringent norms have been incorporated in the recently notified direction by NU after much-delay.
 
 Unlike other colleges, the bar has been raised for education colleges as per the new norms. The norms have remained unchanged for non-education colleges. A minimum score of 70 out of 200 is required by them for one-year affiliation while education colleges need 140, with several conditions in each category such as teaching staff, infrastructure, and NAAC or QCI.
 
 The pending direction had held up local enquiry committee ( ) inspection of 86 affiliated education colleges even after two months of the deadline set by NU. The number of colleges to be inspected could increase to around 200 if physical education colleges are also counted. 
 
 As per the academic calendar, January 15 was the deadline for LEC inspection, based on which the affiliation is renewed by university. There was no clarity about the inspection of education colleges when the NU twice extended the deadline for errant colleges in January and earlier this month. Several colleges had failed to invite LECs prompting the college section to extend the deadline.
 
 Moving swiftly after notifying the direction, the NU has issued letters to LEC members and asked them to submit the report by April 15, which is deadline for appeal before the vice chancellor as per the academic schedule. On April 30, the NU is likely to upload final list of colleges granted affiliation. There is no clarity if these education colleges will get opportunity to object to LEC report in case of adverse report.
 
 The new norms are likely to see backlash from education colleges, which are mostly run in single room or makeshift premises and without any teaching staff at all. In its affidavit before the HC, the NU had informed that 76 colleges were running without full-time teachers. 
 
 On the other hand, the NCTE has derecognized 15 colleges affiliated to the university. With the norms, teachers working in education colleges feel the NU would be left with just four or five institutes.
 
 
