CHENNAI: The spate of   in the city shows no sign of abating, with   from two incidents in different parts of the city on Sunday showing perpetrators are growing more brazen by the day.

 At Kunrathur, 57-yearold Jayashree was walking with her husband when a young man got off a bike, snatched her seven-sovereign gold chain and ran off.
 
 Even as the shocked woman fell down and was writhing in pain, her husband unsuccessfully gave chase to the man who reached the end of the street where his accomplice was waiting and they rode away.
 
 In another incident, a man riding pillion on a bike dragged a 52-year-old woman at least 50 metres before snatching her 13-sovereign gold chain in full public view at Arumbakkam at 7.30am.
 
 Menaka, a resident of Old Washermenpet, was on her way to a family function on   when the incident took place. She sustained bruises to her hands, legs and stomach. 
  
 
 Some passersby came to her rescue and informed police before taking her to a nearby private hospital where she was treated as an outpatient.
 
 In the CCTV footage,   is seen walking on the road, when the bike-borne men approach her from behind.
 
 The pillion rider drags the woman who holds on to the chain tightly until it snaps, leaving her bleeding on the road.
 
 Her husband Venkatesan lodged a complaint at the Koyambedu CMBT police station. The victim told police that the rider was wearing a helmet while the pillion rider had masked his face with a handkerchief, said an investigating officer, adding that she was unable to note the bike’s registration number.
 
 “The chain snatchers are not put off by the presence of CCTVs. The cameras only help police to solve a crime but do not deter criminals from committing it. Only visible policing will give them some fear. Their presence is especially needed on interior stretches,” said Balaji, a resident of Valluvar Street, Arumbakkam, who witnessed the incident.
 
 
 The first two video grabs show a man snatching a chain from a woman as she walks with her husband on a street at Kunrathur. While the woman fell down in the impact, her husband tries to give an unsuccessful chase to catch the chain snatcher. The third video grab shows two motorcycle-borne men trying to snatch a woman’s gold chain at Arumbakkam. In the brazen attempt in full public view, the victim was dragged for 50 metres till the chain snapped
 
