CHENNAI: Six robberies, including snatching of three mobile phones from pedestrians, in a little more than six hours since Sunday evening have left city residents rattled.

  resident  , 32, was walking along GN Chetty Road in T Nagar around 6.50pm, clasping her child’s arm with one hand and talking over phone with her husband with the other, when two men on a bike snatched the device and sped off, a police officer said.
 
 Around the same time, in  , two men on a bike snatched a handbag from Smitha Joshi, a 25-year-old Perambur resident travelling in an autorickshaw, and rode away. The bag contained a camera and a few other valuables, police said.
 
 Around 9.45pm, 26-year-old Prasath was returning to his house on   in Ashok Nagar from a coaching class when a duo on a bike grabbed his mobile phone on Janakiraman Street and fled.
 
 Two men on a two-wheeler robbed a 27-year-old man, working at an auditor office, of his mobile phone on L V Prasad Road in Virugumbakkam around 10.30pm.
 
 Later that night, Ayanavaram resident Sivapriya was crossing   near her house when two men on a bike rode close to her, snatched her eight sovereign gold chain, worth around Rs 2 lakh, and rode away even as the shocked woman screamed for help. 
 
 The robberies continued. Around 12.45am, Parry’s residents  , 43, and his wife Umal were returning home on their bike when two men on a two-wheeler, who had been following them from behind, snatched their bag containing Rs 80,000 and two mobile phones at Anna Square and escaped.
 
 Based on complaints, the police registered separate cases and launched searches for the suspects. 
 
 As the spree of incidents left residents rattled, with many of them demanding immediate action, Ayanavaram assistant commissioner of police Sirajudeen said police patrolling had been stepped up on deserted stretches all across the city. 
 
 “We have instructed beat constables and other patrolling police personnel to keep an eye on miscreants, especially bikers,” he said.
 
 
