, the festival of colours is here. We all wait for it the whole year so that we can enjoy those gujiyas and mithai and colour each other with our favourite colour. So, are you looking for some colourful 
 messages that you can send to your loved ones and express your love for them. Here’s is the answer. Here we bring to your some beautiful heart-warming wishes that will convey your message and love to your loved ones on this occasion of Holi.

 
 
 
 Celebrate this Holi with the colours of relationships, 
 with the warmth of moments and with the sweetness of laughter
 Happy Holi to you and your family.
 
 Do me a favour let's play Holi,
  Come let's sing, dance and laugh all day.
 Festival of happiness and joy is here,
 And when it's Holi, everything is fair!
 Happy  !
 
  Colours being the most important element of our lives,
  make this festival so special for us.
  As the festival is all about colours and more colours,
  Let's play Holi and make each other’s life colourful
  Happy Holi 2018!
  
  Festivals are the only time when we spend time with our families,
 So, this Holi spend time with your friends and family,
  and show them how much you love and care for them.
  Happy Holi to you and your family!
  
  
 The festival of colours is finally here,
 Holi is when we all want to dance, sing and play!
 Forget about what people say,
 Let out your inner child come out and play!
 Happy Holi!
  
  May this festival takes away all your problems and grudges
 and your life may only be ruled by merriment and happiness!
  Happy Holi 2018!
  
  Wishing you and all your loved ones a very bright life ahead
 As bright and colourful as Holi colours itself.
 Happy Holi 2018!
  
  
  Forget all your problems and enjoy this Holi with the brightest colours.
 Happy Holi 2018!.
 
 Holi is not only about colours,
  But about togetherness!
 Forget all the differences and
 enjoy it together!
 Happy Holi...
 
  Peace for white,
 Power for red,
  Knowledge for yellow,
 Development for green,
 Love for pink,
 May this Holi add all these colours to your life.
 Wish you a very Happy Holi!
 
  Do not just play just with colours
 but with all your heart
 and make this Holi the most memorable one.
 Happy Holi 2018!
 
  
  
 
 
 
 May the colours of Holi make your life as colourful and happy as they are. Wish you a very Happy Holi.
 
 I hope this Holi brings with it all the love, wealth and prosperity that you have been longing for. Happy Holi.
 
 Let you inner child come out and get drenched in colours this Holi. Happy Holi!
 
 May the colours of Holi illuminate your life and guide you towards the path of success. Happy Holi 2018!
 
 May the colours of Holi paint your life with brightness and wipe out all that is sad and dull. Happy Holi 2018!
 
 Even though I am far away from you on the happy occasion of Holi, all my thoughts and good wishes are with you. Have a wonderful Holi.
 
 Holi is the festival of colours. I wish with all my heart that it brings more colours to your life. Wishing you and your family a fabulous Holi.!
 
 Festivals are founders of love and joy, friends are the real ones to make this day as a great memory. You are one of them. Happy Holi My friend!
 
 
 
 
 
 Har rang aap par barse
 Har koi aapse Holi khelne ko tarse... 
 Itna rang jao aap rango me ki
 Rang chhudane ke liye aap tarse...
 Happy Holi 2018
 
 Radha ka rang aur kaanha ki pichkari, 
 Pyaar ke rang se rang do duniya saari,
 Aayi hai Holi, khushiyaa manao,
 Sabke sang gujiya, mil baant khaao!
 Wishing you and your family a Happy Holi!
 
