GURUGRAM: Land owners will no more have to do the rounds of Huda’s estate offices seeking permission for transfer of property or approval of a building plan — thanks to an online   and property management (PPM) system that was launched on Monday, promising delivery of services within four working days.

 In fact, the new system, with various user-friendly features, guarantees total six services — including re-allotment letter, mortgage permission, de-mortgage permission and surrender of plot — within a stipulated deadline. All an allottee (a plot holder in a   sector) is required to do is to visit the Huda’s official website (www.huda.org.in) and log in to his page, and submit an application for any of the above mentioned services online.
 
 Huda officials claimed that the PPM system would thus help cut out the middlemen or agents, and check corruption.
 
 Vivek Kalia, Huda estate officer-II, said the new service, which chief minister   unveiled via video-conferencing from   in the day, was in line with the government’s ease-of-doing-business initiatives to ensure quick, hassle-free and transparent delivery of services. “An application can be submitted and tracked online. The applicant will have to visit the estate office as per his appointment schedule allotted online only once for biometric verification and capturing of a photograph,” he explained. “Digitally signed document (as per the application) will be available on the applicant’s page on the website in a downloadable format,” he added.
 
 Kalia said the new system with the above-mentioned services was launched on a trial basis on January 25 and till date Huda received around 30 applications, of which 10 had been disposed.
 
 Further, the Huda is planning to go online with the remaining 17 services, including complication certificate, occupancy certificate and conveyance deed, in the second phase.
 
 To ensure timely delivery of services, Huda has capped the number of applications to be accepted by the authorities in a day. “Initially, the system will accept only 18 applications a day. But gradually, we will increase the number of applications to 25 per day,” said Kalia. The entire process will be completed within four working days from the date of submission of the application. The business process hierarchies and timelines have been re-defined to ensure quick delivery of services. Also, property files are being digitalised and allottees can access them on their account page.
 
 
