MUMBAI: Three days after losing her unborn child in an accident on Eastern Express Highway,   resident   lost her battle for life too on Tuesday afternoon. The 46-year-old mother of three was on life support since Sunday and never regained consciousness.

 Doctors at Sion Hospital said she died of a severe head injury sustained during the accident when the   she was travelling in turned turtle after hitting a divider. “There were not many external injuries but the internal injury was severe. She never gained consciousness. Her blood pressure couldn’t be stabilized till the end,” said dean Dr Jayashree Mondkar. 
 
  
  
 An hour before Tankila’s death on Tuesday noon, her husband Mushtaq (60) had buried their unborn child who died instantly in the crash. It would have been the fourth child of the couple married for 10 years. “Doctors told us that she may not survive the head injury, but I was hopeful she would walk out of the trauma ward and come home with me. I will be returning home alone now,” he said.
 
 The family’s ordeal didn’t end with Tankila’s death as they had to wait endlessly for police and hospital procedures. Though she was declared dead around 12.30pm, the police had not completed the panchnama till 7pm, which further delayed the post-mortem. A source said the hospital’s forensic medicine department usually avoids performing autopsies in medico-legal cases after 5.30pm. “We wish the systems were more sympathetic and flexible. We have been eating and sleeping at the hospital’s concrete benches for three days. Their children are staying with relatives in Malegaon,” said Tankila’s elder brother Saeed.
 
 Tankila’s mother Khalda has not been informed of the death. The 60-year-old woman is a lso nursing a head injury sustained during the accident. She was accompanying her daughter as she feared Tankila’s heart condition could make things tricky during delivery. “I haven’t had the courage to tell her,” said the brother. 
 
 Three of the five family members had returned to Malegaon for treatment. Officials at   said Tankila’s family never approached them for treatment. “They went to a private hospital that referred her to Mumbai. Some of her relatives approached N N Wadia Hospital in Malegaon for an ambulance. We usually refer patients to Dhule or Nashik,” said Dr Kishore Dange, medical superintedent, Malegaon Corporation Hospital. 
 
 Mushtaq said the driver had demanded Rs 2,200 to drop the family to Mumbai. But since the accident, no one asked for the money. “It is perhaps the only compensation I will get,” he said.
 
 
