El Maestro is a world record holder. Nobody has been in charge of a single-nation for more matches than   manager, Oscar Washington Tabarez. He had a first stint from 1989-90 and since 2006, the 71-year-old has done wonders with football in Uruguay. Not only the senior Uruguayan team but also the age group teams are following his methods.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 I am happy to disagree! We are in the same group with the hosts and everybody knows that the hosts can create problem with their home support. Russian football fans will do everything to cheer for their fatherland and their footballers.
 
 
 
 
 You are here to participate in the World Cup and that means you are one of the best 32 football playing nations of the world. Only half of these 32 reaches second round. The task is tougher than what appears on paper. Our primary target will definitely be to reach the knockout stage. Mark my words, it’s never easy in a World Cup.
 
 
 
 
 Well, we lost the opening match to Costa Rica and had to win against two European giants on the trot to make it. World Cup is like that. Before the tournament, nobody could expect that both England and Italy would be sent home following the group stages and Costa Rica would top the group. That’s what World Cup football is all about!
 
 
 
 
 Salah is playing at his best and helped Liverpool to reach the Champions League final which is a great achievement. He is fast and he scores goals at will. But football is a team game and he needs the support of his team. Egypt is one of those dark horses in this tournament. They have a team to make people think. The first match is always a big challenge. If you can start it the right way, it boosts your morale.
 
 
 
 
 As coach of the team, it is our duty to build a team in such a way that the absence of a particular player should not cause you big problems. We all try to do so. Colombia played better, definitely. The Luis episode (when he was suspended for biting Italian defender Giorgio Chiellini) and all that created some unwanted controversies in world media. But that’s a distant past. We don’t want to go back. We can only look forward.
 
 
 
 
 Our first target is to qualify for the knockout stage. That is the primary target. I like to take things match by match. So, we have three matches to play in the group stage and I am concentrating on those three matches only. I shall think about the knockout only when we ensure that we have qualified and know our opponent.
 
 
 
 Yes, it was great. Qualifying for the final phases of the World Cup is considered a big achievement for the football-playing countries. From 32, we were among the first four countries and that is huge. It could have been better, at least that is what a coach likes to think.
 
 
 
 
 He is a good coach. He will look to defend their crown. In 2010, they were third, beating us. And in Brazil, they went two steps further as the first European nation winning the tournament in South America. Huge achievement and he has the squad to do it again.
 
 
 
 Germany is ranked No 1 in   and Brazil is second. Argentina did struggle in the qualifiers but with Messi, they are always a threat. Same is for the Euro champion, Portugal and Cristiano Ronaldo. Spain and France can never be ignored in Europe. And we are ready to play to the best of our abilities. There are no clear favourites and World Cup does surprise you, always!
 
 
 
  
 
