GUWAHATI: As the Congress prepares to retain power in Meghalaya in the upcoming election, one of its last bastions in the country, internal dissension is being said to be one of the crucial challenges for the grand old party. For chief minister  , who has been in power since 2010 over two terms, keeping his flock together is one of two major objectives in what promises to be a frenetic month, say political commentators. 

 The main challengers in the state are the National People's Party (NPP), founded by former Lok Sabha Speaker PA Sangma, and the BJP. While the   and the BJP are allies at the Centre and in Manipur, they are contesting the Meghalaya election on their own. 
 
 The message coming out from within the Congress is that it is crucial for the chief minister to retain Congress's hold in the   seats if Mukul Sangma has to remain as chief minister for the next term. Garo Hills, Sangma's home turf, has 24 assembly seats.
 
 In the 2016 Tura parliamentary constituency bypolls, Congress was virtually decimated in almost all the seats. NPP chief and former Lok Sabha speaker PA Sangma's son, Conrad K Sangma, secured victory, while the chief minister's wife, Dikkanchi D Shira, lost on a Congress ticket.
 
 "Maintaining Congress's hold in Garo Hills is a must for the chief minister. Our organizational strength is still intact and we will tackle the challenge of NPP's rise. After all, assembly elections are altogether a different ballgame from parliamentary polls," a Congress leader said.
 
 Factionalism within the Congress has shaped up to be a major challenge for the ruling party in recent months, especially after the recent change in leadership and five sitting legislators quitting the party. Former chief minister   was replaced by Celestine Lyngdoh as state party president. Lok Sabha MP and influential Congress leader Vincent H Pala has taken charge as working president.
 
 For many Congress workers, the change in leadership so close on the heels of the assembly poll has created new equations within the party. Party insiders said these new equations are likely to accentuate factionalism within the party. "Factionalism is a major potential hurdle for Mukul Sangma, which he has to tide over," said a party source.
 
 Meghalaya has a history of fractured mandates and a long legacy of government instability. There have been seven chief ministers in the last 15 years here, including Mukul Sangma.
 
 According to political commentators, Sangma has somehow been able to tide over the multiple dissensions against him and maintain a stable government in the past, but this election will be his biggest test. Given that the anti-incumbency mood is growing strong, the odds are stacked against Sangma's chances of steering the Congress government into a third term, they said.
 
 
