The bus rapid transit system (BRTS) in the capital city was aimed at making life easy for commuters but it is ending up taking lives due to shoddy implementation.

 Wednesday night’s accident, in which a car and bike collided head-on in the BRTS corridor, is an indication of how motorists use it as a freeway — or speedway.
 
  
  
 
 Although it’s meant only for buses and emergency vehicles, cars and bikes dart into the prohibited corridor and get away scot free. Haphazard implementation has led to traffic accidents, besides creating daily jams at several points along its 24-km stretch.
 
 “Most of the accidents take place on the ‘open points’ or ‘cut points’. There is no special safeguard at these places. For example, the ‘open point’ near Bagh Sewaniya police station has a red light but there is none at Misrod. There is hardly been any accident in Bagh Sewaniya while Piplani regularly sees mishaps,” said Varinder Singh, a contractor.
 
 The biggest problem, however, is brazen defiance of the law by motorists. “If commuters choose lanes reserved for buses, there are bound to be accidents. Many of them trespass into restricted lanes during evening hours as bus frequency drops,” said OP Bhardwaj, BRTS in-charge at  .
 
 “I am sure if the BRTS corridor is more prone to accidents. Data will have to be analysed to verify this, but when all vehicles other than red buses are banned in the corridor, commuters must abide by it. The Misrod mishap happened because vehicles strayed into the BRTS corridor”, said DSP (traffic) Mahendra Jain.
 
 Indore has a much better record and mishaps are limited because they have wardens to keep people off BRTS lanes, said a   official.
 
 Asked why Bhopal does not have the same arrangement, he said, “A BRTS police force was mooted and wardens were deployed but it somehow didn’t click. But, it’s also true that nowhere in the world are wardens put on roads to keep vehicles off a dedicated corridor. People must show minimum discipline.” An idea to install gates on ‘open points’ was mooted. Some did come up, only to vanish.
 
 “It’s not as simple as BMC and traffic officials are trying to prove. Since the frequency of buses is pretty low, motorists get carried away. If there were buses every five minutes as BMC originally planned, people wouldn’t intrude in the BRTS lane,” said Sandeep Pathak of Arera Colony.
 
 Do we have a clearly demarcated corridor on Link Road No. 1, New Market, Sadar Manzil or  ? “In Lalghati, rows of wedding halls render the corridor ineffective. It is only on   that we have a distinct corridor and in some other portions of BRTS stretch like the road from Baba Saheb Square to Veer Sawarkar over bridge”, said Abdul Jabbar, an activist, alleging that red BRTS buses jump red lights. Bhardwaj denied speeding by red buses to catch more passengers. He said, “We get more than 40,000 passengers daily. People like to travel by our buses and there is no question of any competition.”
 
 
