Vadodara: Passionate collectors may not have to hunt through the weekly tribal markets to buy their favourite tribal artworks or traditional and antique ornaments in the famous weekly ‘haat’ at Chhota Udepur. 

 The district administration has started construction of a marketplace at Zoz and Rangpur for tribal traders who sell their products in the weekly markets in different villages of the district.
 
 The weekly ‘haats’ are something that not only the residents of villages in Chhota Udepur district look forward to but are also favourite shopping getaway for collectors of antique items and art enthusiasts. The ‘haats’ are famous for tribal ornaments, earthen and stone wares, items made of bamboos, artists who make tattoos (locally known as ‘chhundada’) among others.
 
 For all these years, the ‘haat’ used to be organized either in ‘chowk’ or a major road in villages and towns which always resulted in traffic chaos and created problems during summers and monsoon. 
 
 Now with two marketplaces coming up in Zoz and Rangpur at a cost of Rs two crore, it will not only solve the traffic issue but will also make the ‘haat’ more organized. According to district administration officials, each marketplace will be able to fit around 150 traders and there will also be a small office building for managing it.
 
 “The state government had allocated a grant of Rs two crore in 2015 for a platform for traders but due to some land issue the construction did not start. Senior police officials and I visited the area couple of weeks back and solved all the issues. The roads and buildings department has even started the construction and it will hopefully be ready within six months,” said Vijay Kharadi, Chhota Udepur district collector .
 
 Marketplaces are common across the state for farm produces but a facility for tribal ‘haat’ is first of its kind. After the construction work is over, the marketplace will be handed over to the gram panchayat, Kharadi said. 
 
 He also added that once these two projects will be successful, the district administration will propose for more such marketplaces in other places like Tejgadh, Chhota Udepur and Panvad to the tribal development department of the state government.
 
 
