ZIRAKPUR: An empty plot located adjacent to Gate No. 1 of   and behind a stream of showrooms on VIP Road here has become a spectacle of filth for its entire neighbourhood. Initially, the residents of the area used this plot as a dumping ground to dispose garbage, but now even the nearby hotels and restaurants have started doing so.

 The vacant plot, which is said to be owned by a builder, has been turned into a dumping spot by the nearby shopkeepers and restaurant owners, who throw foul vegetables and fruits waste. Things like food leftovers, half-cooked vegetables and skins are also thrown here to rot.
 
 Another feature of this plot is that it looks haunted on the back of dense growth of wild grass, plants and toxic vegetation, which had also sometimes caught fire. 
 
 Speaking to the TOI, a fruit and vegetable vendor said that he was sick and tired of protesting and raising the awareness for cleanliness, but the shopkeepers here do not listen at all.
 
 “Every time we manage to get the spot cleaned up, they come at night and throw fresh pile of waste here. And now it has started to stink,” the vendor said.
 
 “Just because the plot is empty, this has become a spot for people to come and dump all their garbage here. They do not even think about the nearby residents, who are the worst sufferers,” said  , who is a VIP Road resident.
 
 “Thick vegetation has also become a big worry, for it can easily provide shelter to anti-social elements. All kinds of wrong things can happen here. We have small children, who play nearby and sometimes use this gate for entry and exit. We are often left worried,” complained a resident.
 
 “Most of the garbage thrown here comes from the hotels and restaurants nearby. They have no sense of responsibility. The hotel workers, to avoid being caught throw the garbage during late night hours,” said  , a   resident.
 
 Not only this, the plot is also covered in heaps of construction debris, brought in and thrown by nearby construction workers, looking for a spot.
 
 According to the residents, a fire incident was also reported from this plot almost three weeks ago. A similar case of fire took place last year as well.
 
 "A big fire broke out here -- near the tall wild grass that lies close to the boundary wall. We had to call a fire brigade. The cause still remains unknown,” said  , another resident.
 
 Many female residents have complained that unknown miscreants burn the garbage here, which results in a lot of smoke that chokes the entire neighbourhood.
 
 “Some people keep burning the garbage here and since our society is the closest, it enters our homes. The situation for us becomes awful,” said a female resident of Nirmal Chhaya Towers.
 
 According to the nearby residents, a sighboard forbidding people to pollute the plot was also installed, which was later removed by some unidentified people.
 
 Meanwhile, adding to the already existing mess is a choked sewer line here that has now started to overflow, thereby forming puddles that surround heaps of garbage here. Heaps of garbage here attracts stray cattle and dogs, which have started invading this spot.
 
 
