PATNA: Pink autorickshaws, launched with much fanfare in Patna in 2013, are rarely seen on the city streets lately.

 An initiative of the Bihar State Autorickshaw Drivers’ Association (BSADA), pink   were meant to help women earn a living from auto driving, otherwise known to be a male bastion. At least 50 women were trained in auto driving in 2013 and 150 others in 2016. 
 
 However, only ten autos with women at the wheel are on the move these days, BSADA sources said on Wednesday and added while five of these women provide prepaid auto service from Patna Junction, the five others get their passengers from the Patna airport.
 
 “I trained 150 women in driving in 2016. They also procured driving licences. But the authorities stopped issuing road permit for autos in the city in 2014 and, as such, bank loans remained elusive,” said  , an auto driver from the first batch of women drivers. She claimed the women auto drivers had also visited the CM’s office three months ago to request CM   to create a separate auto stand for them at Patna Junction. But in vain.
 
 BSADA general secretary Rajkumar Jha said had the women received a little support from the government, women would have been driving driving not only autos but also e-rickshaws, buses and taxis in the city.
 
 The women drivers also complained of a section of their male counterparts. “They ask us to follow their rules about where to station the vehicle. They at times also lure away our passengers. If resisted, they cut our tyres and seats,”  , who drives her auto from Patna airport to different parts of the city, told this reporter on the eve of International Women’s Day on March 8. Kanchan Kumari from the first batch of women auto drivers recalled they were promised many things by the authoirities, but those promises remained on paper. “I feel dejected at times, but I can’t give up as I am the sole earning member of my family,” she said. 
 
 Kanchan, a widow, drives an auto to support her three school-going daughters.
 
 “It’s a hand-to-mouth existence for us. I sometimes think of changing the profession,” she said.
 
 
