NEW DELHI The next admission cycle of   could be advantageous to  . Aspirants from other education boards wouldn’t just have to have a minimum qualifying aggregate in Class XII exams but also appear for an  . 

 The   admission committee believes this would address the concern of disparity in marks due to moderation done by various education boards. 
 
 Both parameters would be applicable to undergraduate   to those courses where enrolment is based on Class XII marks. A sub-committee instituted by the DU admission committee has been discussing this proposal for many days now and would be sending its recommendation to the university after finalising plans in the next meeting. 
 
 The admission committee, since its formation, has been exploring ways to deal with the disparity in the marking patterns of various education boards. The sub-committee suggested a “small” aptitude test to establish parity between boards. 
 
 Originally formed to explore the possibility of holding online entrance tests for undergraduate courses, the committee now believes it is impossible. A senior member of the five-member panel said on condition of anonymity, “DU lacks both the manpower and infrastructure for such a test. We are talking about huge numbers which can go up to lakhs of students.”
 
 An official of DU computer centre revealed that “since DU doesn’t have the necessary facilities, we have to outsource them”.
 
 Pankaj Garg, member of the sub-committee, said, “The university should not frame any policy regarding admission in a hurry as every policy has a long-term impact. An online test is not feasible as internet penetration is not strong in the country.”
 
 The sub-committee then suggested other means, one of which was the aptitude test. 
 
 “Under this, students from other boards who would have the qualifying marks would have to clear a common exam for the field they want to choose. The question pattern would be such that it would provide a uniform chance to all. We will send a complete plan to the admission committee soon,” said a sub-committee member. 
 
 Earlier, the admission committee had said that it would for the first time ask various education boards to send details of their moderation policy so that guidelines could be set. But some members felt this could be discriminatory to students from other boards as they would have to go through another layer of scrutiny before they could secure a seat in a DU college. 
 
 
