NAGPUR: “Digital market in India is currently growing at the rate of 30% and by 2020 smartphone penetration will be around 520 million. Therefore, for start-ups it is a great opportunity to venture into the digital space to market their products or services,” said noted film director Milind Ukey on Saturday.

 Ukey shared his experience of   in the   space with young entrepreneurs while speaking at a special talk organized by the marketing forum of Vidarbha Industries Association (VIA) at Udyog Bhavan.
 
 According to Ukey, the growth in digital space is higher than that of other media. “The film industry is growing at low 3%, television at 7-8% print at 9% and radio at 11%. The digital space is showing exponential growth. Perhaps after five years the industry will start saturating and we’ll come to see established players then,” he said.
 
 The country itself is growing rapidly in digitization compared to rest of the world. According to Ukey, India has the fifth fastest growing digital space in the world after United States of America, United Kingdom, China and Germany.
 
 Uikey says he has ventured into the education sector with a start-up and has come to realize the potential of marketing in the digital space especially on social media. “You will be amazed at the kind of response you get from advertising on social media,” he said.
 
 “You can start advertising on Facebook for as low as Rs50 per day. No other form of media will give you options to choose your target audience. You can reach about 50-1,000 people daily on social media,” said Ukey.
 
 Ukey informs that when he started advertising on social media he found he could choose his target customer by selecting options which allowed his advertisements to show up on their online feeds. “The reason is digital marketing allows you to connect with the consumer something which is not possible with advertisements on hoardings or newspapers,” he said.
 
 “Studies have shown people spend a large chunk of their day on their phones and most of them are surfing on social media. This means they are spending a lot of time looking at video advertisements randomly showing up on their feeds,” said Ukey.
 
 Ukey also informed that movie theatres might become redundant in the future because people are making films to be released specially on digital media platforms. “A manufacturer of liquor in India financed a movie starring well-known actors. For the company this was a marketing campaign,” he said.
 
 
