MUMBAI: At a time when the Centre has promised higher minimum support price ( ) for crops,   and   farmers in the state are still waiting for dues amounting to Rs 520 crore from the central agency   for crops sold since February.

 Outstanding dues for tur   total Rs 500 crore, and for gram these stand at Rs 20 crore.
 
 Procurement also lags far behind targets. Till now, the National Agricultural Cooperative Marketing Federation of India (Nafed) Ltd has procured only 7,403 tonnes or 2.4% of the gram target of 3 lakh tonnes, and 1.9 lakh tonnes or 43% of the 4.5 lakh tonnes tur target. 
 
 For soyabean, moong dal and urad dal, the procurement period is over. Only 5,434 tonnes or 15% of the moong target of 34,750 tonnes was met, and only 26,283 tonnes or 26% of the soyabean target of 1 lakh tonnes was met. Only in the case of urad dal was the procurement high, meeting 94% of the target.
 
 Nafed buys crops at MSP from   across the country. The network of MSP centres is managed by the states. Farmers complain that the centres open late, procure little and there are massive payment delays.
 
 Officials say the payment delay was caused by lags in operationalising the Centre’s bank guarantee of Rs 19,000 crore to Nafed for procurement across the country. The state offered a bank guarantee of Rs 200 crore but this has yet to be operationalised, said Nafed officials.
 
 By now, the agency has purchased tur worth Rs 1,000 crore in the state. Nafed received Rs 500 crore in central funds for tur farmers in the state on March 26. An additional Rs 100 crore was received on April 5 and will soon be disbursed to farmers, said officials.
 
 Nafed officials said procurement had been delayed mainly because of the lack of godown space in the state. After the bumper production of tur last year, Nafed purchased 75 lakh quintals of the pulse, of which only 10 lakh quintals has been sold so far. “This is why we have not been able to purchase more of the gram and tur target,” a Nafed official said.
 
 For soyabean, procurement was low since the MSP at Rs 3,050 per quintal was lower than the market price of around Rs 3,800. Moong dal procurement was low since the quality of the pulse had suffered with unseasonal rains, said officials.
 
 Activists say the MSP was meant to be an emergency price for farmers in a situation of price volatility. Now with market prices collapsing, it has become the preferred price. 
 
 “The Centre needs to use export and import policies to protect the domestic market from global price dips,” a farm activist, Vijay Jawandhia, said. 
 
 
