VISAKHAPATNAM : With an aim to building an improved  ,   (WASH) ecosystem at city schools, the   ( ) has decided to bridge the existing gaps in the   infra before the commencement of the next academic year. 

 Before embarking on the project, GVMC has sought the assistance of   (ASCI) to carry out the gap analysis study, which was submitted to the civic body a month ago. The GVMC now wants to ensure 100% WASH-compliant infrastructure in its municipal schools by June 2018 – before the commencement of the next academic year.
 
 GVMC commissioner M   said they have instructions from the state government to provide 100% WASH infrastructure in the schools. “The works at 60 schools will start in the second half of February and estimate preparations are going on for the same. The phase-wise retrofitting of toilets, based on the ASCI study, at the municipal schools will be completed by this June. All the municipal schools will get good quality toilets and other WASH infrastructure, including ventilation, running water facility, electricity, safe disposal of solid waste and others” said Hari Narayanan.
  
  
 About 20,994 students are enrolled at 148 municipal schools in the city, with 10,064 boys and 10,820 girls. According to the study carried out by ASCI, two schools lack drinking water facility while toilets are not accessible to children with special needs in 122 schools. The study also revealed good toilet to student ratio. However, it stressed on further improvement to meet the highest national standards. The majority of the municipal schools have at least one toilet unit each for boys and girls. 
 
 The ASCI study used 14 indicators to measure the WASH infrastructure status at these municipal schools, including a source of safe and reliable drinking water, availability of water per day for toilet in day schools, availability of separate functional toilets, functional toilet facilities for children and teachers with special needs, availability of functional hand-wash facilities for use after going to toilets.
 
 
