NEW DELHI: Despite being home to nearly 25 million tribal people who are dependent on forests,   hasn’t managed to utilise the funds provided for minimum support price (MSP) for minor forest produce like turmeric, mahua seeds, sal leaves and others. It has utilised only Rs 3.80 crores for the   scheme in the last four years while Centre had given Odisha a fund of Rs 49.91 crores in 2014 for its implementation.

 Experts are worried that Odisha may not implement the scheme at all considering that states have the autonomy to decide if they are willing to implement this scheme. 
 
 In a letter written recently to Odisha CM,  , Tribal affairs minister,   has asked Odisha government to refund the unutilized funds with accrued interest and an audit report if they do not plan to utilise the funds lying with them. “The state agencies were helped to undertake procurement operations under the scheme (MSP) and accordingly an amount of Rs 49.91 crores was provided to Odisha as “revolving fund” in 2014 by the ministry…during the last four years it has been observed that the total procurement during this period has been to the tune of Rs 3.80 crores only,” the letter reads. 
 
 The scheme called “mechanism for marketing for minor forest produce ( ) through minimum support price (MSP) and development of value chain for MFP” is for 24 types of forest produce, to ensure fair price for produce gathered by tribals. 
 
 Officials at the Tribal Development Cooperative Corporation of Odisha, responsible for implantation of the MSP scheme said they were not able to implement it because they haven’t got guidelines on fair average quality parameters for many forest produce. Sources also said there is a proposal to not carry forward the scheme but that hasn’t got a final seal yet. “Odisha’s utilization of MSP funds is second after Chhattisgarh. 
 
 
  
 
 Odisha hasn’t managed to benefit a large number of people (who gather forest produce) either through the scheme. In 2014, the scheme benefitted about 160 people, 2905 in 2015, 3596 people in 2016 and 4906 beneficiaries in 2017. 
 
 Only sal seed and harida or turmeric were procured in 2017. “To protect the livelihoods of forest dwellers is the fundamental duty of the government. Because there is hardly any alternative livelihood for this indigenous community, government should ensure a fair and better price for forest produce gathered by them. Tribal groups should also be allowed to take up forest based zero carbon emission enterprises which can strengthen their livelihoods and help mitigate climate change,” said Chittaranjan Pani of Odisha based Vasundhara. 
 
 He added that Odisha is a hub for minor forest produce like sal seeds, myrobalan, neem seeds, sal leaves, siali leaves, mango kernel, mahua leaves, hill broom and tendu leaves.
 
 
