RAIPUR: Chief minister Dr   on Sunday embarked on a month-long   - to take governance to the door-step of citizens. He began the campaign from a remote village and attended a grievance redressal camp in a Maoist affected area in Dantewada district in the tribal Bastar region. 

 The chief minister reached Bandatola village in Narharpur block in Kanker district unannounced and interacted with the locals at the village choupal. 
 
 He also reached an anganwadi centre to check on the national pulse police vaccination campaign and administered polio drops to four-and-a-half-month old Anurag Nishad and 10-month-old Himanshu Nishad.He also visited the house of Khemta, a tribal woman who makes silk threads for a living.
 
 The chief minsiter approved funds for solar pumps and concrete roads. 
 
 He also sanctioned the purchase of   for the youths. 
 
 The chief minister then went to Samadhan Shivirs at Injaram village in   district where he renamed the 30 km long Injaram-Bheji road as the Martyr Jagjeet Singh road in honour of a CRPF constable who lost his life fighting Maoists in the region on March 11 last year. Singh also attended grievance redressal camps in two other Naxal affected areas in Bastar region.
 
 Lok Suraj Abhiyan is the chief minister's initiative to implement the bottom to top functioning of the administration in three phases. After the first two phases were completed, over 30.10 lakh applications were received from across the state, which have now been disposed.
 
 The campaign began as the ' ' some 13 years ago, and has evolved over the years. It was named Lok Suraj Abhiyan in 2015 for which information technology is being used extensively to keep track of applications received, status of disposal and analysis of data.
 
 During his cross-state tour till March 31, chief minister Raman Singh will hold meetings with the officials of respective districts and meet the villagers. He will also stay overnight in selected districts to get feedback from the residents. 
 
 The chief minister has taken part in Gram Suraj Yatras every year since 2005. 
 
 As part of the yatra, he has made surprise visits to far-flung villages that has immensely helped him to establish a direct connect with voters. Such visits have put him in a higher pedestal in comparison to other leaders within the ruling BJP, as well as in the opposition when it comes to reaching out to the masses.
 
