THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The humiliating way of testing blood alcohol content (BAC) for   by forcing the vehicle driver to blow into the alcometer in full public view is on its way out. The   have decided to introduce 'Booze Buses', resembling mobile blood laboratories that will not only give a private space for the person undergoing test, but also will include facility for testing if the driver is under the influence of drugs, a trend which is increasing, especially among the youth.

 "The method is more scientific. Moreover, it avoids a person feeling humiliated for being made to undertake such a test in the public," said state police chief Loknath Behera.
 
 The booze vehicle or the alcohol detection vehicle is popular in several other countries. The state police are introducing the new system as part of becoming the first state to fully bring   enforcement under the digital bracket. The bus will house advanced equipment that will ensure conduction of test in optimal, hygienic conditions, with disposable testing strips. It will also have a mobile printer which will print the test result. Police sources said that the services of a paramedic will also be available who can conduct a blood test on the driver, which will basically cut down the hassles of taking the driver to a hospital for undertaking a blood test if he is found to have consumed alcohol.
 
 In addition, equipment for   test will also be arranged inside the bus that will use the oral fluid to test for at least seven types of drugs. The drug test will provide a quick alternative to the hassle of collecting urine or blood samples. At present, the police have no method to prove if a person is driving under the influence of drugs.
 
 In the first phase, the police are planning to introduce 20 such buses, each costing around Rs 20 lakh, one each for 19 police districts and one for the traffic police headquarters. The first batch of five such vehicles is expected to hit the roads in three months. They will be given to five corporations.
 
 The reason for majority of accidents, including 4,035 fatal cases, in 2017 was found to be drunken driving or driving under the influence of drugs. The state aims at reduction in road accident cases by 25% in the next three years. For 2018, state aims at reduction in accidents by 10%.
 
 
