NEW DELHI: In what could be a breakthrough of sorts for CBI’s investigation against a   based jeweller Dwarka Das,   has managed to trace mother and wife of   Seth, the principal accused in the case of embezzlement of Rs 390 crore from   (OBC). 

 CBI traced Sabhya’s mother- Reeta Seth, a director of the family firm Dwarka Das International and wife Punita- to a location outside Delhi. Earlier, it had been feared that Sabhya Seth had fled with his family in 2014. In order to get Sabhya back, CBI has also got   to issue a ‘diffusion notice’ to track him. 
 
 Diffusion notice is an informal request to foreign law enforcement agencies to locate and report a “wanted” person. It is suspected that he might be living in Dubai. 
 
 Two other directors of the company – Krishan Kumar Singh and Vijay Kumar Singh are also untraceable. The agency had earlier issued lookout circulars against the directors of the company. 
 
 Sabhya Seth led Dwarka Das International, which engaged in manufacturing/trading of diamond, gold and silver jewellery, had availed various credit facilities from OBC’s GK-II branch since 2007 by getting foreign letters of credit (FLCs), foreign documentary bill purchase and other instruments. 
 
 The accused was utilising the credit facility under LCs established by foreign banks abroad. Some of these banks were poorly rated. After cheating the bank, according to OBC, Sabhya formed a company in Dubai called Freya Trading Co. He even hired an Indian representative called Atul Kumar Garg. 
 
 It is further alleged that through his companies –Dwarka Das Seth International and Dwarka Das Seth SEZ, Sabhya Seth also indulged in round-tripping of funds to increase their worth and get more credit facility, as part of an “elaborate plan” to dupe the bank. 
 
 A forensic audit conducted by OBC in January 2015 revealed that addresses of three counter parties to the letters of credit (LCs), Mannat FZE Rak, Freya Trading FZE and Green Apple Trading FZE, could be non-existent and used for funnelling Seth’s money out of the country. All three companies are Dubai based.
 
