Gurgaon: The son of a former  , along with a few other people, has been accused of trespassing and inciting violence in a plot in Badshahpur. A city resident had lodged a complaint in the matter on January 11, police said. The former MLA has, however, denied the charge.

 Police said   Dipesh Mangla, had approached them, saying that he had rented out a plot near the powerhouse on   to a person called Raman Grover, a resident of Faridabad, to set up a printing press. The lock-in period of the land was three years. However, on January 5, Mangla found out from people that the wall at the back of the plot had been broken down by Grover and the others.
 
 In his complaint, Mangla has said that when he went to the site, he met Raman Grover and his friend, Sikander, son of former Congress MLA from Samlkha (Panipat) Dharam Singh Chhokar, and a few others. He was allegedly informed by the men that they had “bought the land behind the plot and acquired it to make a path towards the plot”. Mangla has alleged that they even threatened to kill him when he complained that Grover and the others had violated the terms of the lease agreement.
 
 However, Raman Grover has said that he had acquired the plot in the name of a company he recently started and he had previously told Mangla that he would make a path at the back of the plot. 
 
 “As soon as I broke the wall, he approached the police and filed a complaint. However, I took the matter up with the court and got a stay. I showed that to the cops but they ignored the court order and still filed an FIR against me,” said Grover. He later visited the state DGP and an inquiry was subsequently marked to the area DCP and ACP.
 
 An FIR was registered on January 11 under sections 147, 149 (rioting) 427 (mischief causing damage), 447 (house trespass) and 506 (criminal intimidation) of the IPC against Grover, Sikander and the others at the Badshahpur police station. “We are currently verifying the facts in the matter,” said inspector Vishnu Prasad, SHO of the Badshahpur police station.
 
 Dharam Singh Chhokar said that Sikander had nothing to do with the matter. “The lease and the agreement were all in Grover’s name. They have simply dragged my son into this for nothing,” he said.
 
 
