NEW DELHI:  , including Gujarat, Haryana and Bihar, on Tuesday joined the government’s centralised eway bill system for inter-state transport of goods by road under the   regime to plug revenue leakages.

 While Karnataka, Rajasthan, Uttarakhand and Kerala had started using e-waybill, six more states — Haryana, Bihar, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Sikkim and Jharkhand — joined the   started by the GST Network (GSTN), the company that provides IT backbone. The new regime will become mandatory from next month with all inter- and intra-state movement across the country will be tracked from June.
 
 Under the new system, for every inter-state movement of goods beyond 10 km with a value of Rs 50,000 and above will require an e-way bill from February 1, a statement said.
 
 Other states are also likely to join us soon in this initiative. Transporters and other taxpayers will not be required to visit any tax office or check post under this system and the E-way Bill can be generated electronically,” said GSTN CEO Prakash Kumar.
 
 Transporters who want to generate e-way bill can visit a dedicated portal and register themselves by giving the GSTIN. Transporters who are not registered under GST, can enroll themselves under eway bill system by providing their PAN or Aadhaar to generate the e-way Bill. Those without access to a computer can generate one using their Android phones.
 
 “E-way bill introduction appears to have been hastened to plug revenue leakages which have crept in after introduction of GST. However it is necessary to introduce checks and balances to ensure that taxpayers are not harassed and vehicles are not detained for minor transgressions.” said MS Mani, partner at Deloitte India.
 
 There were some who are apprehensive about the move. “Hopefully, the industry would not experience this as a deterring process in their supply chain and would observe more of transaction tracking mechanism to reconcile revenues. The government may require to re-look at the time frame in terms of the validity (shelf life) of E-way bill considering certain sectors which are sensitive/ non-sensitive,” said Suresh Nandlal Rohira, a partner at Grant Thornton India.
 
