Three days after the World Health Organisation (WHO) released its report on the most polluted cities, where Gurgaon ranked 11th, a TOI team visited the most polluted spots in the city to understand the root cause of the problem.

 
 
 Reason: Vehicular pollution, construction dust
 
 This   junction connects three arterial roads in the city — NH-8, Sector 14 road and MG Road — and is one of its busiest stretches. 
 
 However, the construction of the underpass that is going on at this stretch for the past year and a half, has added to the woes of commuters. Construction dust added with traffic jams has left commuters unhappy and gasping for breath.
 
 
 
 
 Reason: Construction dust
 
 A recent survey by Haryana State Pollution Control Board (HSPCB) identified Rajiv Chowk as the city’s most polluted spot. Connecting Sohna road with Old Gurgaon and NH-8, there are a number of construction sites on this stretch. 
 
 Blatant violations of NGT norms can be seen here, as construction sites are not properly covered leading to clouds of dust spreading across the area. 
 
 
 
 
 Reason: Burning of waste
 
 Connecting Golf Course Road with Sohna road, this road has witnessed a sudden increase in traffic movement in the last three years, with several buildings coming up in sectors 61, 62 and 66, and residents moving in. Waste burning is a major problem here. Residents claimed 2-3 cases of waste burning in this area are reported almost every day. “We need to keep our apartment doors and windows shut, as black smoke keeps billowing from waste burning nearby,” said Harish Garg, who lives in a highrise in the area. 
 
  is also high here due to on-going work at buildings being constructed along the road. The road infrastructure, too, is in bad shape.
 
 
 
 
 Reason: Vehicular pollution, burning of waste
 
 Over the past 10 years, Sohna road has become an important commercial hub, as several MNCs moved to sectors located along it. Apart from commercial buildings, this stretch houses 10 highrises, six housing societies and three luxury residential projects.
 
 As it connects Gurgaon to Sohna, Alwar and SPR, heavy   ply on it day and night, causing vehicular pollution. Residents have also complained about waste being dumped and set afire at vacant spots along the road, leading to air pollution.
 
 
 
 Reason: Vehicular pollution
 
 Massive encroachment has taken place along the road, leading to traffic congestion. Many a time, authorities have carried out anti-enroachment drives on this stretch, but have failed to stop squatters from re-settling. “We thought NH-8 would help decongest this stretch, but that didn’t happen. Encroachment by commercial establishments adds to traffic snarls in the area. The situation is so bad that residents, who have been living here for 20 years, are selling their apartments and moving out,” said Colonel Umesh Yadav, a resident of Gurgaon One. Waste burning in the open too takes place here.
 
 
 
 
 Reason: Vehicular pollution
 
 Built about 60 years ago, this is one of the oldest bus terminals in the city. The spot is used by over 200 buses every day. In a survey conducted by HSPCB during Diwali 2017, this area was listed as one of the most polluted spots in the city.
 
 
 
 
 Reason: Industry emissions
 
 Spread across an area of 700 acres, this is an industrial hub in the city with several textile factories, automobile industries, food processing units and IT firms. 
 
 While emission from industries is a major source of air pollution, industrialists also blame lack of green belts, traffic congestion and waste burning for rising pollution.
 
 
 
 
 Reason: Vehicular pollution
 
 One of Gurgaon’s biggest commercial hubs, MG Road houses over 15 residential complexes and 10 shopping malls. As this road connects the city to Delhi, traffic flow is high round-the-clock. According to residents, the Metro station on MG Road has worsened the situation as it led to encroachment around the station, causing traffic snarls and rising vehicular pollution.
 
 
 
 
 Reason: Vehicular pollution, dust 
 
 This sector is located near Cyber City, a 2km-long circular loop which has hundreds of corporate offices and is visited by over three lakh employees every day. It also houses several paying guest facilities and rented accommodations for corporate employees. According to authorities, several illegal constructions going on in the area have resulted in dust pollution rising in the area. Encroachment on roads has led to traffic snarls. 
 
 
 
 
 Reason: Dust pollution
 
 Located near Hero Honda Chowk, Sector 37 is an extension of Udyog Vihar. At present, many commercial buildings are being built here, escalating dust pollution.
 
 
