NEW DELHI: 
 

 
 
 
 It is not my estimate, it is my conviction that we will get a comfortable majority. PM Modi's popularity, the commitment of the party organisation and goodwill for BS Yeddyurappaji will ensure he replaces   as CM after May 15.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 Every election is important for national politics. But Karnataka is special for BJP as it will be a gateway to the south for us. But it will certainly be disappointing for Congress.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Failure of the Karnataka government on all fronts is the most important issue. Around 3,500 farmers committed suicide under this government. There has been a jump of 173% in farm suicides in Karnataka, the highest in the country, but this government remains insensitive. Law and order has been abysmal and Siddaramaiah has surrendered to the troika of (KJ) George, (NA) Haris and Roshan Baig, and has handed over Bengaluru to them. (George and Baig are state ministers, Haris is an MLA.) Those three may be contesting on three seats but for us, they are present on all 224 as the symbol of lawlessness. There was a murder attempt in a Bengaluru hotel but not even an FIR was being registered. As many as 24 BJP workers have been killed. Killers use the same method, they come by motorbikes and slit throats but FIRs have been registered only in a few cases because SDPI, which is responsible for targeted killings, is a Congress ally.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 I don't know which examples you have in mind. But let me tell you that Karnataka is a case apart, only one of its kind. It is not a simple case of crony capitalism. Other governments may prefer one builder or the other, here it is the builders who have the state at their disposal. It is a takeover of the government by builders.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Development is in a mess. Look at the perennial traffic jams in Bengaluru. The Centre sent funds but it did not reach the actual beneficiary. There was no increase in irrigated land and Bengaluru's growth has stagnated. On the other hand, PM Narendra Modi and his government has been working tirelessly and continued to allocate funds to Karnataka. Apart from Rs 2.19 lakh crore allocated under the 14th Finance Commission, the Centre allocated another Rs 80,000 crore. I think the people of Karnataka have seen higher growth rate in BJP-ruled states and they are positive about BJP. Modi's popularity is a big asset for the party and it has grown due to his performance.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 I don't believe in such academic theses. But to answer your specific question, I have no such fear because people feel fatigued only with non-performers. And this is true in all walks of life, not just politics. Those who slog with the intent to bring happiness to others, will always be liked. Look at the response the PM is getting here and that will help us win.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 I have toured the state extensively. I am convinced that people are tired of the Siddaramaiah government and will give us a decisive verdict. The response to the PM should remove all doubts. People have bought into this ‘hung verdict' theory because they are committing the mistake of seeing this election as a triangular fight. Fact is, we have three-cornered contests only in 45-odd constituencies. In the remaining 175-odd (seats), we have direct contests.
 
 
 
 
 I don't think we will need anyone's support. There are three days of campaigning still left and there will be more consolidation in our favour.
 
 
 
 
 The PM was only seeking to highlight the contrast between  's discourteous treatment of Deve Gowdaji and the respect that he (Modi) shows to the former PM when they meet. In public life, differences should not deter us from acknowledging the good work done by others whom we may not agree with. Such recognition should not necessarily and automatically result in political alliances.
 
 
 
 
 I move among people and interact with them and I look at their response in roadshows and rallies. The biggest indicator is the connect the PM has. You can't expect Siddaramaiah to say ‘yes there is anti-incumbency'. I see huge anti-incumbency.
 
 
 
 
 Not a single case was proved against Yeddyurappa. In fact, the court said some cases were frivolous and manufactured. Still, we took action and he was removed from the party. There are no cases against the two candidates (Karunakara Reddy and Somashekara Reddy) we have fielded. However, Siddaramaiah is roaming around shamelessly wearing a watch of Rs 40 lakh but Congress does not dare question him.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The Karnataka government announced it at the fag-end of its tenure after four-and-a-half years. So, their intention can't be trusted. Moreover, Congress-led UPA had rejected the proposal in 2013.
 
 
 
 
 After formation of Yeddyurappa government, the Mahadayi issue will be resolved in six months. We have promised this in our poll manifesto. Siddaramaiah should talk about what he has done to resolve the issue.
 
 
 
 
 It was not required here as anger against this government is across all sections of society. So, the caste of candidates has become irrelevant.
 
 
 
 
 The anger you are referring to is nowhere at the ground level. I have been interacting with Dalit representatives like students, NGOs and social workers but didn't find any problem. One should know that we (BJP) have maximum number of Dalit MPs and MLAs. People might make such claims but I won't believe this.
 
 
 
 
 We see a campaign of falsehood being unleashed each time an election approaches. A few people can always get swayed by such false propaganda and that is what you are witnessing.
 
 
 
 
 The boot is on the other leg. Tipu Sultan has always been a polarising figure, and people in Kodagu and other parts of the state, including some bordering Goa, have hellish memories of his regime. Karnataka has such a rich history and boasts heroes like Rani Chennamma who fought against the British, her lieutenant Sangolli Rayanna, and Chitradurga warrior Madakari Nayaka. And yet, Siddaramaiah decides to celebrate the birth anniversary of only Tipu Sultan? Who is being divisive and polarising here and who is appeasing whom?
 
 
 
 
 It is not correct... rather, it's Congress which latches on to Aiyar and Pakistan to consolidate Muslim votes. I have no qualms in saying this.
 
 
 
 
 The dispute is over Jinnah and some organisations of Aligarh who don't like him. I objected to the praise that Mani Shankar Aiyar showered on him because I feel that this marks a new chapter in the politics of appeasement. I don't believe Aiyar is acting on his own. Congress has been methodically using such mavericks in their B-team to play the politics of appeasement and the bluff needs to be called.
 
 
 
 
 BJP has never done politics on religion and no one should do it. It is against the spirit of our Constitution. Voter should be seen only as a voter and not on the basis of religion.
 
 
 
 
 The four years of the Modi government have impacted almost 22 crore families. Through schemes for toilet construction, distribution of LPG connections and electrification of villages, we have, even after allowing for overlaps, improved the living standard of 22 crore families. Congress could not bring these changes in 70 years. As they failed, we got the opportunity and feel fortunate that we have served the people. The whole world today acknowledges the Modi government's achievements. The country's security was not compromised, OROP was stuck for 40 years but was implemented, we have proposed free health insurance to 10 crore families which will cover 50 crore individuals.
 
 
 
 The ‘Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao' campaign was to stop feticide of the girl child and educate girls. It was intended to give momentum to such moves and make them a movement. The two incidents people are talking about (Unnao and Kathua)... let the court judgments come. However, as our moral responsibility, we took action against our party workers about whom questions were raised.
 
 
 
 
 See, there is enough time for Lok Sabha polls. Our target is to get 50% of the votes and we are confident of achieving that. After 50%, there won't be much left even for a combined opposition.
 
 
 
 
 The Yogi government has done great work so far. His performance on improving law and order and also the condition of farmers is unprecedented as this level of improvement had never happened in the state.
 
 
 
 
 We didn't contest UP on caste basis as we had not announced who will be the chief minister. Voting on caste lines happens when there is a face, which we didn't have. We contested a caste-neutral election and we continue to stick to governance in the state.
 
 
 
 
 Haven't paid much attention to it. But they continue to shrink. They are confined to three states and after the Karnataka results are out on May 15, they will fold to two states. Still, I agree that Congress is a national party and we have a direct fight with them on 250 Lok Sabha seats. As far as regional parties are concerned, it varies from region to region.
 
 S
 
 
 Our ties with Shiv Sena are intact and I reiterate we shall contest future polls together. We have a strong alliance with JD(U) in Bihar. However, it's over as far as TDP is concerned as it was Chandrababu Naidu who broke away. After Karnataka, we shall focus on Andhra with a full-fledged campaign. The Andhra government owes an answer about how central allocations were utilised and how some people's worth has risen to Rs 10,000 crore with no obvious source of income.
 
 
 
 
 Whether being incumbent is an advantage or a liability depends of how you have performed. People will support you if you have performed. We had governments in MP and Chhattisgarh, still we came back to power in 2013. This time, we are confident of winning with a better margin than 2013.
 
 
 
 
