BENGALURU: Residential property sales may be witnessing the most prolonged stretch of dampness in recent times due to weak consumer sentiment and stricter regulation, but that has not deterred the rich from splurging on homes that make a statement. Two luxury apartments in the Kingfisher Towers in Bengaluru have just been resold at about Rs 35 crore each.

 Kingfisher Towers at  , built on a 4.5-acre land parcel, is a 34-storey ultra-luxury apartment complex with Vijay Mallya’s penthouse on the top two floors. The structure, which has 81 apartments in three blocks, has been built on land on which Mallya’s ancestral home stood.
 
 The two 8,450-sqft apartments, which are on the 5th floor, have been bought by  , chief executive of tech company Reward360, and the CEO of a city-based pharmaceutical supplier, who did not wish to be identified.
 
 Project launched nearly decade ago
 
 Zain  , managing director of ZF Properties & Investments, who facilitated the deal, confirmed the transactions to TOI. The area — Lavelle Road —is one of the most sought after in the city. Besides UB City, it houses JW Marriott hotel, has showrooms of BMW, Porsche and Harley Davidson, and bungalows of the rich and powerful. “The average resale rate around Lavelle road is about Rs 18,000 per sqft, but this property is at a premium. One gets a 360-degree view from the apartments with no highrises around,” a broker said.
 
 The per-sqft price for the Kingfisher Towers apartments works out to Rs 41,420. When the project was launched nearly a decade ago, they were sold at about Rs 22,000 per sqft. That’s an annualized return rate of about 7%, and reflects the sluggishness of the property market. The investor might have been better off investing in the public provident fund.
 
 Mallya executed a joint development agreement for the development of the tower with   Group in 2010. Of the 81 units, 10 are to be split among Mallya’s family members. Of the 71 units for sale, 30 are Mallya’s and the rest are with Prestige, which still has six units to sell. Prestige said it will start handing over the units to customers this month.
 
 One of the most expensive residential deals in the city happened last year when Quest Global chairman Ajit Prabhu bought a 16,000-sqft apartment in Embassy One near Hebbal, which also houses the Four Seasons hotel, for Rs 50 crore. That’s about Rs 31,000 per sqft.
 
 “The focus here is on bespoke services the Four Seasons brand is synonymous with. That will always attract a premium. In the other (Kingfisher Towers) case, the brand got hit due to reasons known to all. It’s sad a resplendent tower with marqun ee buyers will have a large portion of it empty,” Juggy Marwaha, managing director of property consultancy JLL India said, referring to Mallya’s share of apartments which cannot be sold due to court orders.
 
