THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Social scientist and political psychologist   has decried the Central government’s proposal to build a tribal museum in the state likening it to the unrealized project of Fuhrer Museum. 

 “When the Jews were being exterminated, there was a plan to build a museum on the race, collecting various artefacts. The proposal for adivasi museum is very much like that plan. We are only interested in the display of their artefacts but not concerned about the fact that their numbers are coming down,” he said while delivering a   on ‘power, politics and Indian psyche’ at University of Kerala here on Tuesday.
 
 Nandy also bemoaned about fading interest in conserving culture. “We say that tigers are threatened and we have project to protect tigers, but we don’t have a project to protect our languages. There were 1,500 languages in the country almost 30 years ago. Linguist Ganesh Devy did a people survey and learnt that the numbers dipped to 1,200,” he said.
 
 He said that languages like Bhojpuri, Urdu which have a much older history than Hindi are now considered dialects of Hindi. “We have pawned our future to the existing fashion,” said Nandy. 
 
 While responding to a question, Nandy said that we have reached a phase where no questions can be asked about the price of Rafale fighters. “It can be called an anti-national activity. The average cut in defence purchase is 24%. Some of the army officers also open business in defence purchase after retirement. There are also cases where the cut could go up to 40%,” he said.
 
 Nandy said that the upper middle class and middle class people in India consider politics as a means of survival and advancement. “They don’t care about ideologies; whether it is Hindutwa or not. They only care about access to power. Strong faith in Hinduism does not show any co-relation to BJP except in Gujarat,” said Nandy. 
 
 Nandy also lashed at Congress and called it lethargic and unorganized. “What kind of party is it when all posts are open to others except president and vice-president. There have always been attempts to contain growth of leaders leading to their exit from congress,” he said.
 
 The lecture was organized by department of psychology and Kerala state higher education council.
 
 
