AHMEDABAD: Gujarat high court on Wednesday asked the state government not to take any action against schools run by Catholic organizations for their reluctance to grant admissions under the Right to Education ( ) Act.

 
 Justice   issued notice to the state government and sought reply by June 14 on whether RTE provisions are applicable to minority-run educational institutions. Till further proceedings, the HC has ordered, “no coercive steps shall be taken against the school”.
 
 The HC was moved by the  , an umbrella organization of 173 schools run by Catholic missionaries across the state. It filed the petition after the director of primary education and concerned education officers warned the schools that action would be taken against them for not granting free admissions to poor children on 25% of seats in Class 1, as mandated by RTE.
 
 According to the petitioner’s advocate, Mamta Vyas, the schools contended that they are minority-run institutions and a   order has exempted such institutions from following the RTE provisions. These schools are not expected to admit students on 25% of seats because RTE laws do not apply to them.
 
 Meanwhile, an educational institute from Vadodara, run by a linguistic minority institution,  , has also approached the high court on Wednesday with similar arguments. The HC has stayed education officials from taking action against the school till June 12, said advocate Tushar Sheth, who represented this school.
 
 Wednesday was the last day to confirm admission under RTE norms as schools have already been allocated to nearly 80,000 children, whose parents had applied for free admissions for their kids this academic year.
 
 Over the last week, petitions have been filed in the high court by minority-run institutions, both religious and linguistic, objecting to the state government’s insistence on allotting admission to students at these schools. The HC on Friday will hear petitions filed by five minority-run institutions from Vadodara.
 
