Bhopal: Despite crackdown on habitual offenders and criminals in the recent past, there seems to be no let up in cases of crime against women. 

 The number of cases of crime against women and children in the city seems to have skyrocketed in the month of April. Around 75 such incidents were reported in the city in April which suggests that more than two incidents were reported on daily basis.
 
 Total 170 incidents of crime against women and children were reported in the state capital between January 1 and March 31. This includes 79 incidents of molestation, 37 incidents of rape and 54 incidents registered under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act (POCSO).
 
 Going by the figures, the ratio of number of rape cases reported during the first three months was less than one per day. But in April, 25 rape cases (including minors) were reported till April 29 which has shown a steep rise as compared to the past three months. Similarly, around 50 cases of molestation including minors were reported during the month. 
 
 Senior police officers said that the rise in awareness among the people has led to an increase in number of cases reported to police.
 
 DIG Dharmendra Choudhary said that the rise in awareness level has led to an increase in number of cases reported to police. He said that now the people report even minor incidents to police. People also reported molestation cases against neighbours which were only due to petty disputes. Police is carrying out investigations into such cases.
 
 He added, “Most of the rape cases reported in the past 8-10 days were technical in nature. The victim and accused were in contact with each other for the past few years and strained relations led to filing of rape complaint.” He added that crackdown on habitual offenders has created a terror among them and the crime graph in the city has shown a decrease as compared to previous years.
 
 SHAMEFUL TRAIL:
 
 April 27: 6-year-old girl was abducted and raped by a 27-year-old watchman, who resides in her locality in Ratibad
 
 April 4: 15-year-old girl, a Class 10 student, filed rape complaint against her 45-year-old father at Chhola Mandir police station. She alleged that her father had been raping her for the past three years
 
 April 15: Three bike-borne stalkers chased two scooter-borne sisters for around 2 km from Moti Masjid Square till Banganga Square. They waylaid the sisters at Banganga Square and attacked one of them with a knife injuring her hand.
 
 April 24: A 20-year-old girl was abducted in a car from Misrod locality on April 17 by three accused, including a woman, and taken to Sehore where she was kept in captivity and raped
 
 April 27: A 25-year-old man, who was stalking a 15-year-old girl for the past few months, waylaid her in Nishatpura. He gave his mobile number to the minor and forced her to talk to him over the phone. When she denied the accused allegedly took out a knife and started threatening to kill her and her family
 
 QUICK LOOK:
 
 Crime - 2016 - 2017
 
 Molestation - 304 - 364
 
 Rape - 136 - 153
 
 Crime against children (POCSO Act) - 183 - 261
 
 Abduction - 585 - 580
 
 
