Age is just a number for  . The veteran artist, plotted and paced his way to a 7-6 (7-1), 6-3, 6-4 win over Czech   to become the oldest man to reach the   semifinals since   (42 years and 68 days) in 1977. 36 going on 37, and fighting strong.

 
 
 
 
 Completing the oldest-youngest jigsaw was South Korea's  . Federer will face the unseeded young star in the second semi-finals on Friday. Chung, 21, became the youngest since   in 2010 to make the last four.
 
 
 
 Federer started slowly, broken in the opening game of the match. He was trailing 2-5 and sporting a hardened expression, upset as he was by line calls. His 'come on now' shouts gained in decibel level. The defending champion then struck in the ninth game, fighting off two set-points to break back.
 
 Shooting for his 20th Major title, there was no looking back for Federer. The Czech took a medical timeout at the end of the second set, but Federer and in his peppermint-pink shoes was well on his way.
 
 
 
 
 Earlier, Chung, 58, the lowestranked in the last four since Marat Safin in 2004, continued to roll, playing sharp, cerebral tennis. After putting out names that included - No.4 seed Alexander Zverev and six-time champion   he had an easier lasteight match-up, against the world No.97 Tennys Sandgren.
 
 The bespectacled pro, cheered on by a sizeable Korean community in Melbourne, is a rage back home. Rado, Samsung, Yonex and Lacoste are already on his sponsors list. Chung, who kept his focus for most part, scored a 6-4, 7-6 (7-5), 6-3 win to join Edmunds as the first unseeded players to make the semis here since   10 years ago.
 
 After 2 hours and 28 minutes of action the Korean threw up his arms in celebration and the Rod Laver Arena stood to a man. In his box his mother used her hands to form a heart shape over her head.
 
 Chung, who beat the American in Auckland earlier in the month, closed out on his sixth match point in a long-drawn ninth game, where he went up 40-0. "In the last game many things came together," Chung said of the 11-minutes between the first and sixth match points when he finally closed out. "I was (thinking) If I win one more point I make history in Korea then I think about the ceremony. Anyway, then I stay calm because the match is not finish yet."
 
  
  
 
