HYDERABAD: The Telangana police has decided to launch ‘Nerasthula Samagra Survey’ (comprehensive criminals’ survey) from January 18 in all districts. The door to door survey will enumerate repeat offenders and history-sheeters who need to be kept under surveillance on a regular basis.

 Telangana director general of police M   on January 3 issued orders to all commissioners and superintendent of police to involve Law and Order police stations, CCS police stations, crime record bureaus, district police Railway police in the survey.
 
 The DGP has asked cops to geo-tag all the offenders, and all the info related to them shall be updated in the new software provided to the police. With the completion of the survey, field police officers will be able to monitor the professional or repeat offenders in real time using the recently launched TSCOP.
 
 Criminals who are involved in property offences like murder for gain, dacoity, robbery, chain snatching, housebreaking by day and night, pseudo-police, diverting attention, automobile thefts and house thefts are to be surveyed.
 
 Apart from the bodily offence cases accused like murderers, contract killers, firearm suppliers, kidnappers, fake currency circulator, hawala operators, multilevel marketing offenders, organ transplantation offenders, question paper leakage gangs, illegal explosive suppliers, suspects in terror modules and underground Maoist cadres will also be verified. It was also decided to include gambling organisers, matka or satta organisers, sex traffickers, sex trade in the guise of massage centres, cricket betting organisers, illegal liquor sellers, overseas job racket offenders, local job racket offenders, fake visa racketeers, fake babas, forged land document organisers in the survey.
 
 “The integrated criminal verification of known offenders (Nerasthula Samagra Survey) will be taken up throughout Telangana including Cyberabad. Physical verification of offenders in the addresses through door to door survey will be done in order to keep a watch on their activities and life style,” Cyberabad deputy commissioner of police (crimes) Janaki Sharmila told TOI. She added, “Officials of all ranks will take part in the door to door survey from January 18.”
 
 
