CHANDIGARH: Three Congress MPs – Sunil Jakhar, Ravneet Singh Bittu and Santokh Chaudhary — held a protest on the terrace of Parliament in New Delhi to demand compensation for the families of Punjabi youth killed in Iraq. Addressing mediapersons,   said those killed in Iraq were from different states of the country and it was therefore the duty of the Centre to help its people in distress. He added that Congress-led Punjab government has announced Rs 5 lakhs ex gratia in each case. The Union government too should have done something.

 The MPs also alleged that had the Indian embassy helped these victims of Iraq tragedy in time, their lives could have been saved. “But the   government left these poor people to fend for themselves. He added that the day since NDA government has taken over country, it interests of poor and SC/ST has been put on back burner,” alleged Jakhar. 
 
 Meanwhile, Congress legislators from Amritsar and   districts criticised Prime Minister   for the “meagre” relief announced for the kin of the victims killed by the IS in Iraq.
 
 MLAs Sukhjinder Randhawa, Sukhbinder Singh Sarkaria and Harpartap Ajnala said, Rs 10 lakh announced by Modi was “too little and too late”. They demanded that the government of India must pay Rs 1 crore each to the families . They said, the government of India first tried to play down the tragedy by lying and saying that the victims were alive despite an eyewitness saying that they had been killed two years ago.
 
 “May Mr Modi tell us, what measures were taken except for telling the nation lies that the victims were alive while they had been killed long ago thus giving false hope to their families”, said Randhawa.
 
 Hira Lal, a resident of Chawinda Devi, whose brother Sonu was one among 39 Indians killed by IS said “The compensation is not sufficient instead it is too meager, Sonu has two young boys aged 9 and 11, a widow Seema and an elderly mother “ . He said the government should ensure that none of them had any financial problem in life.
 
 Sister of late Manjinder Singh, Gurpinder Kaur, a resident of Bhoewal village said “ I can’t say anything now, we all are in deep shock”. However, she said there were many families whose sole breadwinner had been killed and they needed help from the government. “I think Centre government will keep all this in mind,” she said.
 
 
