Tirunelveli: With heavy summer showers triggered by the low pressure near Sri Lanka lashing Tirunelveli and   on Tuesday night and Wednesday morning, the respective district collectors declared closure of   on Wednesday. However, they said that plus one board exams would be held as usual.

 Manonmaniam Sundaranar University also declared a one-day closure of its colleges in Tirunelveli, Tuticorin and Kanyakumari districts. However the internal and semester practical exams for undergraduate and postgraduate students would be held as usual. 
 
 Some schools and colleges began functioning due to the delay in getting the alert. While most students were sent home, some private schools conducted special classes for students preparing for the SSLC and Plus Two board exams. 
 
 As the three falls in Courtallam flowed copiously, bathing was banned at Courtallam old falls, main falls and five falls from 3 am.
 
 Tuticorin city recorded the highest rainfall of 200 mm, followed by 190 mm in Papanasam in Tirunelveli during the 24 hours till 8 am on Wednesday. 
 
 Tirunelveli district recorded an average rainfall of 62.19 mm, while Kanyakumari district received 18.2 mm. 
 
 Cloudy sky and breeze over the last three days and the showers on Tuesday and Wednesday came as a relief for the people of Tirunelveli region who were struggling under the scorching sun. 
 
 The rains also resulted in improvement in water level in seven of the 11 reservoirs in Tirunelveli district. Fishermen from all the three districts abstained from going to the sea for the fifth day in succession on Wednesday heeding the meteorological department warning.
 
 Tuticorin district recorded an average rainfall of 55.83 mm in 24 hours till 8 in the morning on Wednesday. The 200.8 mm recorded in Tuticorin Town is said to be the highest rainfall recorded there in a day, over the last few decades. 
 
 Heavy winds for a few minutes around 9 pm on Tuesday gave nightmares to the people of cyclone Ockhi-hit Kanyakumari district. There was a sigh of relief only after the winds stopped after uprooting a few trees. 
 
 The district received an average rainfall of 18.2 mm and since there was no incident of flooding, schools in the district functioned as usual.
 
 
