NEW DELHI: “I just want it to be over soon. It’s been going on for too long,” was what a 15-year-old survivor of child sexual abuse said when asked about how she coped with the   system. Similar dissatisfaction with legal proceedings is evident in the testimonies of 10 such survivors in a study on the psychosocial impact of abuse, where seven said the statement of their parents were yet to be be recorded. These 10, aged between seven years and 16, endured court cases running into years.

 
  
  
 
 Conducted by the Kailash Satyarthi Children’s Foundation, the study is seen as an attempt to bridge the knowledge gap and to furnish evidence to expedite action for reform in all domains. The research team reached out to 96 families of survivors, all of whom had sought punishment for the perpetrators and justice for their children from the courts. Out of these, only 10 survivors agreed to participate in the study, reflecting perhaps the difficulty that survivors of sex crimes and their families in speaking about their quest for justice and dealing with the trauma.
 
 “From the available data, it was observed that the respondents were very disappointed and dissatisfied with the time taken by the courts to pronounce judgments. In most cases, the parents’ statements were still to be recorded, leading to the case getting dragged on for two to three years,” the report said.
 
 Lack of education, awareness and limited access to resources deprive many of their rights and legal entitlements. “They (the families of survivors) only know about the court dates that they receive through summons,” the report observed. The mother of a nine-year-old is quoted as saying, “I have neither met any lawyer nor have I come before the judge. I have no idea what goes on there ... the lawyer has been changed twice. Earlier it was a male, now a woman.” In this particular case, the interviewer was told that the lawyer usually called the maternal uncle of the survivor on his mobile phone to inform the family about the date of hearing, but the family itself never met the lawyers.
 
 The report also found that none of the respondents were told about the status of their cases in court. They only know of date of hearings. The study, in addition, highlighted the issue of “court anxiety, a fear of the court and its proceedings”. A 16-year-old survivor is quoted as saying, “I get worried about going to the court. Initially there was a stay on the case, but now it has reopened. I don’t know how it is going to impact me. I have already lost a year of my studies.”
 
 
