Panchkula: Under trial Deepak Kumar alias Tinu, who was freed by Sampat Nehra and his aide from Civil Hospital Panchkula after throwing pepper spray in the eyes of a police official in June last year, was produced in a court on Friday by Crime Investigating Agency (CIA) of Panchkula police. The court further sent him to 6 days police custody.

 Deepak was locked up in an Ambala jail when he was brought for a regular check up to the hospital. Following the checkup, a daring escape was made by Sampat Nehra and his aide at a gun point and by using pepper spray.
 
 Since then, Deepak remained on a run. He was arrested in December by the Bhiwani police from Bengaluru. After the Bhiwani police completed their interrogation, the accused was brought on production warrant by the Panchkula police.
 
 Crime branch police incharge inspector Suraj Chawla said that they have brought Deepak from Bhiwani and would now try to interrogate him to ascertain the whereabouts of Sampat Nehra.
 
 “Sampat Nehra is also accused of using pepper spray on a policeman to free Deepak. During Deepak’s interrogation, we will ascertain the whereabouts of Sampat and also source of weapons used in various crimes by him,” Chawla said.
 
 BOX
 
 Tinu gave slip to Mohali police during Delhi shootout
 
 Deepak Kumar, alias Tinu, had given a slip to the Mohali police during a shootout in Delhi, last year. However, Mohali police arrested five members of Sampat Nehra-Lawrence Bishnoi gang after an exchange of fire in Dwarka, Delhi on November 21.
 
 Deepak, a resident of Narnaund in Hisar, gave police a slip, following which the police had arrested Sumit of Barwana village in Haryana; Tiku of Kunjawala village in Delhi; Naresh of Abohar; Sumit of Jhajjar in Haryana; and Krishan of Narmana village in Jhajjar.
 
 The gangsters arrested by the Mohali police during interrogation revealed that they had planned to get gangsters Lawrence Bishnoi and Amit Bhura released. Sources said that the gangsters got together in Delhi to plan and collect weapons for getting Bishnoi released during his production in a Mohali court. The cops said that Deepak was the main mastermind behind the plan.
 
 
