MUMBAI: Gone are the days when acquiring a driving licence was a breeze. Recent data reveals that 10% of those appearing for   failed the test due to poor driving skills/knowledge while 25% failed to clear the learner’s licence test. 

 “The figures show that we are not showing leniency towards any candidate and want to ensure that only those fit to drive vehicles get licences,” said a senior transport official who did not wish to be named. 
 
 An RTO official said: “We have directed the inspectors on field to conduct tests for every candidate. In the past, a few candidates from a driving school would appear for a test and the rest from the same school would pass arbitrarily.” Another RTO official said that in case of learner’s licence, the test was held through computerised system. “Nobody can cheat this system and so failure rate has gone,” he said. 
 
 On an average, 400 candidates appear for driving tests at the four city RTOs daily. Those appearing for tests have to first take the learner licence test and appear for the permanent driving test within six months. 
 
 Activist G R Vora said this is a foolproof way of ensuring we get good drivers. “This way there will be transparency in system and will curb favouritism and corruption,” Vora said, adding that in the past citizens used to get licences easily and it was just like getting a licence to kill people on the streets (in mishaps). 
 
 “Driving tests should be made more stringent by introducing computerised test tracks at all the four RTOs in the city,” he said. Aproposal to set up such hitech test tracks was mooted a few years ago. If they come up, there will be no involvement of any RTO official or driving school agent during the test. 
 
 Transport experts said it is more difficult to get a driving licence abroad. In the UK, the pass percentage was 47% a few years ago while in South Africa, it was 39% a few years back. Statistics from the state transport department showed that the online system coupled with stringent tests led to a decline in number of driving licences issued in the city.
 
