GHAZIABAD: The Federation of Apartment Owners’ Association filed a PIL in the   on Wednesday, demanding sealing of all   and commercial establishments operating out of residential buildings in  . The federation has alleged that the   has turned a blind eye on the matter.

 The federation said it had filed the PIL after making several complaints to the   that reportedly went unheard. The complaints had been filed on the basis of replies to RTI queries in which the GDA had clarified that no permission whatsoever had been given to conduct commercial activities from residential buildings.
 
 It has been alleged in the PIL that commercial establishments, including banks, beauty parlours, saloons, cafes, gyms, restaurants, departmental stores and clinics, have been operating illegally from several residential units in Indirapuram. Many buildings in densely populated areas like Ahimsa Khand 1 and 2, Nyay Khand, Niti Khand, Abhay Khand, Gyan Khand and Shakti Khand had either been rented or leased out for commercial activities.
 
 In October 2016, former GDA vice-chairperson Vijay Yadav had ordered a survey of the residential areas in Indirapuram to identify illegal commercial establishments. Yadav had assured the apartment owners that action would be taken in accordance with the law after identifying these establishments.
 
 “However, there was no follow-up by the GDA. Unauthorised shops and commercial units do not have parking spaces of their own. Hence, vehicles are left on the road whenever a customer visits any of these shops. It leads to congestion and traffic jam,” federation president Alok Kumar told TOI.
 
  “In addition, shops and other commercial establishments are also operating out of several high-rise housing societies. Convenience shops have been approved in the layout maps of some group housing societies. These are meant for the exclusive use of residents of that particular society. However, in several instances, boundary walls of societies have been pulled down to allow the use of these convenience stores by the general public,” Kumar added.
 
 The PIL has also highlighted instances of air and noise pollution resulting from continuous honking and congestion of vehicles on roads where shops operate illegally.
 
 The PIL has been filed on the basis of a Supreme Court order of 2011 that barred banks and other commercial establishments from functioning out of residential sectors in Noida.
 
 
