NAGPUR: An eleven-day ‘Geet Mahayadnya’ event began on Thursday at Shri Siddhivinayak Ganesh Mandir in Narendra Nagar with ‘Shri Ganesh Onkar’ based on devotional songs dedicated to the lord of wisdom. The event has been organized by   and will be held at eleven temples across the city till June 10.

 
 Conceptualized by Shyam   who has also arranged the music for these presentations, the mega event will see almost all well-known local singers and musicians taking part. “We decided to hold this event now as this is the period of ‘Adhik Maas’ when people should perform pious acts,” Deshpande said. 
 
 The programme will have twenty sets of devotional songs dedicated to various saints like Dnyaneshwar, Eknath, Gajanan Maharaj and Goddess Durga, Lord Krishna and Sai Baba. All the devotional numbers have been penned by Mukund Pulliwar and composed by Purushottam Samak. 
 
 “He wrote these songs between 1980 and 1990 and they are extremely popular with singers and listeners,” Deshpande said.
 
 Similar events had been organized in 2003 and 2015 also, but they were weeklong. “In 2015, we had organized this event at Scientific Society Hall. This time we are holding the event in east and west Nagpur and arrangements are being made by the management committees of these temples,” Deshpande said. 
 
 The temples where the events are being held include Navin Datta Mandir, Itwari; Shri Swami Math, Khamla; Shri Sai Mandir, Wardha Road; Shri Ram Mandir, Ram Nagar; Sant Dnyaneshwar Mandir, Bajaj Nagar; Madhavnath Maharaj Mandir, Itwari; Durga Mandir, Pratap Nagar, and Shri Krishna temple, Gorakshan, Dhantoli.
 
 “Mukund Pulliwar’s devotional songs have been very popular with the audience and singers, and this event will revive many of them,” singer Chhaya Wankhede, who will be participating at two venues, said. 
 
 With the number of cultural programmes being held in the city declining during summer, this event spread over eleven days offers an opportunity for the audience to enjoy good music, felt Ravi Satfale, a tabla player, who is part of these presentations. “It is also a great opportunity for all the musicians and singers to perform before a large audience,” he added.
 
 
