NEW DELHI: The   conducted by the Central Board of Secondary Education in 2015 was cancelled by the  . The high marks given by the board in the Class XII exams in 2016 drew a lot of flak. And while 2017 was dogged by big marks calculation errors in the board exams, this year saw the question paper leaks. Experts have observed this downslide in the past few years and attribute it to the non-sustenance of the reforms in examination and evaluation that   initiated after the National Curriculum Framework in 2005.

 
 
  
 
 Professor Krishna Kumar, former director of  , said these controversies point at problems within the education board. “Under chairman Ashok Ganguly, CBSE started work in 2005 to improve the evaluation system and revamp the system of setting question papers, but gave up too soon,” Kumar said. “CBSE should have created space for thoughtful answers instead of textbook answers, but that requires direction and it did not happen. After 2009-10, the momentum was lost.”
 
 Kumar added that the Indian public examination system anyway lacked credibility because of the marking system and practice of having module answers by which to judge students. “Our system has sanctioned this, and every year there are cases of children getting their answer sheets re-evaluated because they feel they have not been treated fairly,” he pointed out. “This year, CBSE created more uncertainty among the students on whether their hard work was being rewarded.”
 
 Ganguly himself felt this year’s examination fiasco was an aberration. “The faith in the infallibility of the system may have led to this situation,” Ganguly said. Citing the pioneering system of having multiple sets of question papers, which many state boards too adopted, the former CBSE chairman reasoned, “CBSE discontinued multiple sets in 2018 without thing it much thought. Had we followed the multiple set system, the severity of the leaks would have been reduced and it would also have pinpointed the mischief monger.” 
 
 National Curriculum Framework outlined measures for exam reforms and CBSE should have not only sustained the changes, but improved upon them, said Ganguly. 
 
 Many felt that the question paper leaks were organised attempts to malign the existing set-up. “While it is premature to speculate about such motives while the investigation into the origin, methodology and intent behind the leak are under way, it is nevertheless obvious that the big-bang is pretty well organised and its primary intent is to malign the system that has worked for decades with impeccable records, efficiency and credentials,” asserted Ashok Pandey, principal, Ahlcon International School, Mayur Vihar.
 
 Pandey said asking for the head of the CBSE chairperson would not address the problems at hand. He said that going forward, the education board needed to “revisit the assessment process, introduce reforms, integrate technology and bring uniformity in the evaluation system” from Class I to XII. “The continuous and comprehensive evaluation (CCE) system, therefore, was not such a bad idea. But we discarded it abruptly,” Pandey rued.
 
 Professor Janaki Rajan, department of teacher training, Jamia Millia Islamia, pointed out another drawback. “CBSE no longer has academic presence which is crucial to understand curricular, pedagogic evaluation and measurement dimensions,” he said. “These require research-based organic and child-centred approaches rather than administrative and logistic approaches.”
 
 
