INDORE:   was the lone hope of Kings XI Punjab after they lost their top four batsmen for 87.

 And when Kings XI required 52 off 31 balls, Rahul guided Jaydev Unadkat towards point and Sanju Samson took a one-handed blinder. The stands and both the dug-outs went silent as the catch was referred to the TV umpire.
 
 
 
 
 
 Once Rahul (84 n.o; 54b, 7x4, 3x6) was declared not out, his body language changed and he looked even more determined. Even when others gifted their wickets away, the Karnataka batsman slogged and guided   to a six-wicket win at the Holkar Stadium. Confronting a modest target of 153, Kings XI were home with ten balls intact.
 
 
 
 
 So far, Rahul has provided blazing starts in company of Chris Gayle to Kings XI Punjab, laying the foundation for the middle order. On Sunday, the situation was different. With wickets falling around him, Rahul not only needed to stay till the end but also keep scoring at a good pace. Rahul did both jobs with perfection Spinners Mujeen Ur Rahman, Ravichandra Ashwin and Axar Patel set up the game for Kings XI Punjab, giving away just 78 runs in their 12 overs as   were restricted to 152-9 in 20 overs. The Afghan boy showed he has a big heart. He doesn’t mind tossing it up to seasoned players and invite them to go after him. Rahman first removed Ben Stokes, courtesy a superb relay catch by Mayank Agrawal and Manoj Tiwary and then grabbed the wickets of a well-set   and Jofra Archer off successive deliveries.
 
 Though Butler (51; 39b, 7x4) set the tone of Royals innings, the things did not go as they would have hoped for. The English opener began well as he pierced the in-field five times and the Royals were off to a flier with 33 on board in 3 overs.
 
 However, Ashwin (4-0-30-1) rotated his spinners with aplomb. He again bowled with the new ball and struck on his third ball to remove D’Arcy Short. The off-spinner then introduced left-arm spinner Axar Patel (4-0-21-1) , who accounted for Rajasthan Royals skipper Ajinkya Rahane. Royals were pushed on the back foot quite inside powerplay.
 
 Buttler and Sanju Samson (28, 23b, 2x4, 1x6) had a 49-run stand and looked good for more before Andrew Tye got into action to get the crucial wicket of Samson.
 
 
