CHANDIGARH:   and   high court has stayed the Haryana government's September 2013 notification providing 10% reservation in government jobs to economically backward persons (EBP) with effect from December 7, 2017. 

 Admissions in educational institutions under the EBP quota were already stayed, but the state recruitment agencies --   (HPSC) and   (HSSC) -- were providing 10% reservation to EBP during selection for various posts. 
 
 The division bench, comprising Justice   and Justice Raj Shekhar Attri, passed these orders while hearing a petition filed by a Panchkula medical student Kalindi Vashishtha.
 
 In its orders released on Tuesday, the bench referred to the SC maintaining stay on EBP quota provided by   in government jobs and for admissions in educational institutions. The matter is pending before the SC.
 
 
 
 The bench headed by Justice Grover observed, “The state counsel contends that the matter is being revisited in view of the pendency of the proceedings before the Supreme Court. If that be so, then it would be in the fitness of things that the impugned notification be not given effect to.” The next hearing is on July 3, 2018.
 
 This means that no reservation can be provided in government jobs in Haryana under the EBP quota as per the notification issued by the Bhupinder Singh Hooda-led Congress government on September 27, 2013. The petitioner had challenged providing of 10% vertical reservation to the EBPs in educational institutions under the general category.
 
 According to the petitioner, by providing this reservation, the total quota rose to 60%, which is against the 50% ceiling stipulated by the Supreme Court in the case of Indira Sawhney versus the Union of India.
 
 In support of her plea, petitioners had referred to a Gujarat high court division bench judgment of August 4, 2016, quashing a Gujarat government ordinance providing reservation to economically weaker sections under the general category.
 
 The matter had reached the HC in September 2016, but the Haryana government had failed to file a reply till September 2017. Upset over the delay, the HC had on September 14, 2017, slapped Rs 20,000 as costs on the state government.
 
 
