World No. 1 India takes on No. 2   in an eagerly awaited 3-Test series, beginning in Cape Town today. India was dominant in 2017, swatting Australia and Bangladesh at home and Sri Lanka both in Lanka and India. But South Africa, thirsting for revenge after a 3-0 thrashing on its last visit to India, presents a formidable challenge. History isn’t India’s ally; it has never won a Test series in South Africa and triumphed in only 2 out of 17 Tests. But then, this is a brave new team and far stranger things have happened in cricket. 

 
 
 
 Here are five reasons India can dare to dream In South Africa: 
 
 
 
 
 When   is on song, India looks a different team. Kohli doesn’t just score runs; he sets the terms of engagement, pins down the opposition. Kohli’s hunger for runs is matched only by his inexhaustible will and ambition as captain. His incredible self-belief, never-back-down style and hard taskmaster methods have transformed India into a lean, mean and ruthless unit. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Mohammad Shami, Bhuvneshwar Kumar, Ishant Sharma, Umesh Yadav, Jasprit Bumrah. From swing to sheer pace to awkward bounce, India for once has all angles covered. This is India’s finest pace ensemble in its 85-year-old Test history. On paper, the rivals – Dale Steyn, Morne Morkel, Kagiso Rabada, Vernon Philander – look more incisive. But the Indians can match them bouncer for bouncer. 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 Murali Vijay, Cheteshwar Pujara and Ajinkya Rahane all have decent records abroad, though each must improve his showing in South Africa. ODI record-breaker Rohit Sharma also looks better placed to succeed in Tests than ever before. Now, the batting line-up needs to deliver. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 India has better spinners (Ravichandran Ashwin and Ravindra Jadeja). After a long time, it has a genuine batting all-rounder in Hardik Pandya. And it has a gritty wicketkeeperbatsman (Wriddhiman Saha), who’s highly rated by experts. 
 
 
 
 
  is just back from a Test sabbatical. Dale Steyn is feeling his way back from a potentially career-ending injury. And a severe drought in Cape Town means the wicket for at least the first Test may not be as bouncy as usual
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
