Chennai: Tired of waiting for the government to provide them with basic civic amenities, residents of   on Thursday petitioned deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam, demanding creation of a separate municipal corporation by merging local bodies lying in the southern periphery of Greater Chennai Corporation.

 In the petition, the Chitlapakkam Residents’ Association Coordination Committee, represented by its convenor P Viswanathan, urged Panneerselvam to initiate a policy discussion on the creation of one or more municipal corporations in the Chennai Metropolitan Area (CMA). 
 
 At present, Greater Chennai Corporation is the only urban local body within CMA to possess the municipal corporation status. “Chitlapakkam has an area of only 2.95sqkm. We are surrounded by Tambaram, Pallavaram and Sembakkam, all of which are municipalities. Despite the rapid urbanisation of Chitlapakkam and the areas around it, we still remain a town panchayat,” said Viswanathan.
 
 Non-recognition of Chitlapakkam’s urbanisation has meant that the area has not been provided with amenities like underground sewerage network and drinking water connections to houses. Solid waste generated in the area is dumped in the Chitlapakkam lake, the only source of ground water for the approximately 38,000 residents (per 2011 census) living in the neighbourhood. “There is no sanitary inspector to supervise conservancy work,” said Viswanathan, adding that residents do not receive 70 litres per person per day of drinking water that they are entitled to.
 
 According to the petitioner, Chitlapakkam is to be supplied 27 lakh litres of drinking water on a daily basis. “But TWAD board supplies only nine lakh litres of water per day which equates to less than 25 litres per capita daily consumption. In the summer, this drops even further. Water supply is only once every 10 days. Only 4,000 houses have drinking water connections out of the more than 12,500 houses in Chitlapakkam,” Viswanathan said.
 
 Residents also urged Panneerselvam to instruct the Metropolitan Transport Corporation to restart operation of small bus route number S8. 
 
 
