Nashik: The downward trend in vegetable prices continues owing to consistent rise in supply. 

 However,   sources predicted that the situation will change by the end of this month and prices will gradually start increasing. 
 
 All vegetables are being sold in the range of Rs 10 to 20 per kg in retail markets of the city.
 
 The drop in vegetable prices have badly hit the farmers as they are incurring losses and unable to manage the production cost. 
 
 The arrival of all vegetables has increased at large, but the demand is comparatively very low.
 
 "Nashik majorly supplies vegetables to Mumbai and some cities in Gujarat along with nearby regions within the state. But there has been good supply of vegetable from other regions. As a result, demand for vegetables produced in   has dropped at large and it has led to drop in prices," said an APMC official.
 
 Bhaskar Kotwal, a farmer who cultivates   and brinjal (eggplant), said that wholesale prices of both the commodities have dropped hugely. 
 
 "I sold 10 crates (20 kg a crate) at a price of Rs 70 per kg and five crates of brinjal (10 kg per crate) at a wholesale price of 80 per kg. The prices have dropped at large and I am unable to get production cost," he added.
 
 Kotwal is unable take back the unsold produce back to his home as he has will incur additional transportation cost.
 
  "These vegetables are perishable and we have no option but to sell the produce at the prevailing market rates," he added.
 
 Vegetables like brinjal, tomatoes, cauliflower and cabbage have been badly hit and their prices are very low. 
 
 The average wholesale brinjal price has crashed from Rs 25 a kg to Rs 6 in the past one-and-a-half month. 
 
 The wholesale price of brinjal has been in the price range from Rs 6 to 7.5 per kg for the past week. In  , brinjal is being sold at Rs 20 per kg.
 
 It is the same with tomatoes. The prices had touched an all-time-high of Rs 120 per kg in retail market of Nashik in July 2017 due to scarcity of the produce. However, now tomatoes are being sold at Rs 10 per kg in the retail market. 
 
 
