Nagraj Manjule’s Hindi directorial ' ', featuring   is in the news again. The film, inspired by the story of Vijay Barse who put slum football on the world map, had run into controversy after certain student organisations from the city opposed the Savitribai Phule Pune University’s (SPPU) decision to allow Manjule to erect a set and shoot for the film on the university’s playground. The students had withdrawn their protests after assurance from the filmmakers and   authorities that the shoot wouldn’t affect their day-to-day activities.

 However, according to recent reports, the Pune District Administration has sent a letter to SPPU seeking explanation on why the ground was rented out for shooting purposes. According to the notice, “As per norms, the government has allotted the land of SPPU to the varsity for specific purposes. Without a government order the university authorities cannot sub-let the land for a film shoot. We have submitted a report regarding the same and the collector office will take further action as per the norms,” informed Geeta Dalvi, Tehsildar, Pune. 
 
 Another aspect of this situation is the delay in the shoot. Initially planned to take place between October-November last year, the shooting has still not begun. Explaining the delay, Manjule said, “There were some initial setbacks, including protests from students and certain other technical aspects, which led to the delay. However, the set is ready and we are planning to start shooting closer to the end of February.” Speaking about the notice from the district administration, he added, “I agree that there has been a delay from our side but the process of filmmaking is lengthy and we are expecting support from authorities.”
 
 
  
 
 Confirming the receipt of the notice, Arvind Shaligram, registrar, SPPU said, “We have received notice from the district administration office and will be replying to them. We have also asked   to start and wrap up the shoot as soon as possible.”
 
 Pune Times also had reported that the film will have involvement of students from SPPU. Manjule affirmed the same and said, “As per our commitment to the university, we have involved students in the process so that they get first-hand knowledge about filmmaking. We just hope that the authorities consider our plea and grant us an extension in the timeline of the shoot.”
 
 
 
