SITAPUR: UP chief minister   on Friday announced a compensation of Rs 2 lakh to each family that lost a child in attacks by stray dogs in   and Rs 25,000 for the injured.

 
 The menace of feral dogs has claimed the lives of 12 children in the district since last November.
 
 Yogi also promised to make the 22 villages affected by the   (ODF), following reports that canine attacks are frequent during mornings when children go to answer the call of nature.
 
 “There are 22 villages affected by this menace. We have seen children are particularly targeted by dogs. We are increasing security and will spread awareness among villagers not to let children go out alone. It appears street dogs turn menacing when they find the kids alone,” the CM said.
 
 
 
 
 Yogi’s visit comes a day after Allahabad high court asked the UP government about the steps taken to control the attacks by savage dogs which have   in the past 11days.
 
 Yogi first stopped at Sitapur district hospital and met six-year-old Abhishek Yadav, who was attacked on May 9 and 12-year-old Aman, who was admitted with critical injuries on May 6.
 
 Uttam, Aman’s father, said the CM interacted with both families and directed officials to help them in every way. “This is first time any senior government functionary has come to visit us,” he said.
 
 The CM then stopped at the home of Mahajabeen in  , which lost two children to dog attacks. Yogi met families of Rahim, who died, and Saloni, who was injured. “He stopped here for about two minutes. He said the government would help us but did not specify how,” said Mahajabeen.
 
 An enthusiastic administration, meanwhile, went on an overdrive to welcome the CM. Potholes on approach roads to the hospital were hurriedly filled up on Friday morning.
 
 The massive security at the district hospital caused inconvenience to patients and attendants with a youth claiming he was forced to carry his ill mother on his shoulder after the hospital reportedly refused to admit her.
 
 “My mother is ill, but the hospital referred her to another because the CM is on a visit. They did not even provide an ambulance,” he complained.
 
 To a query, chief medical officer RK Naiyar said he was unaware of such an incident. “The patient or his attendant didn’t approach me for help,” he said.
 
 
