NEW DELHI: The LG’s address on the first day of the  , which reflects the government’s vision for the next financial year, saw lieutenant governor Anil   reiterating the   government’s commitment towards education, health and a pro-welfare agenda. 

 Steering clear of any political statement, the speech, printed in a 32-page booklet, nowhere mentioned the Centre and was largely a list of what the Delhi government perceives as its achievements. 
  
 
 With AAP always trying to project itself as an alternative to traditional political parties, the LG’s address began with a simple assertion that the “actions of the government have added impetus to the   activities and development process”. It emphasised how power tariff has not gone up while the 50% power subsidy has stayed. Another key point was the continuation of free water of up to 20KL per month and installation of water pipelines in unauthorised colonies. 
 
 Despite a bitter battle between the   and the government, the speech highlighted the ‘doorstep delivery of public services’ that aims to extend government services beyond the counters. “Citizens willing to avail this facility can make a request to the call centres set up by the government. They will be assisted in obtaining the required services by the mobile sahayak at their doorstep at a pre-scheduled date and time through the call centre,” it stated. 
 
 The LG had questioned the implementation of the scheme and the scheme was finally okayed after a long stalemate and reworking of the project by the government. 
 
 Welfare measures mentioned also included implementation of 37% hike in minimum wages, notification of the slum rehabilitation policy, pension benefits and scholarship for marginalised students. 
 
 A large part of the speech was dedicated to education, followed by health. While women safety does not find any space in the work showcased, the fight against pollution was mentioned only towards the end of the speech. The implementation of measures like stopping construction activities and banning diesel generators under the graded action plan were cited as the high points in the battle against air pollution. It also highlights how 1,750 effluent treatment plants are installed in various industrial units, hotels etc. 
 
 The speech also cited figures on GDP per capita income to reaffirm that Delhi is standing on a firm ground as far as its economic health is concerned. 
 
 Baijal said that for development of human resources, the government had focused on strengthening and modernising the education sector. “CCTV cameras are already installed in most of the schools. It is proposed to strengthen the CCTV surveillance system in all schools, including classrooms, with the facility to parents to watch the feed from schools,” Baijal said while addressing the House for the second time as the Delhi LG.
 
 He went on to add that the government has taken several patient-friendly initiatives. “All essential drugs are provided free of cost to the patient attending public health facilities of the Delhi government.” 
 
 The address also reiterated the government’s commitment to bring more public buses. The progress of ongoing infrastructure projects and the introduction of the common mobility card were also mentioned. 
 
 
