KOLKATA: Use of the   can be blamed for around 16% of the 1,070 track deaths last year within the   GRP’s jurisdiction (the Sealdah-Bongaon route and the Sealdah-Behrampore route).

 The 171 people, who died while using their mobile phones on railway   included both commuters and trespassers, GRP officials said on Tuesday, a day after two college students died a horrific death on the stretch of tracks between Dum Dum and Belgharia while posing for a video they had told their friend to shoot.
 
 These deaths — all involving use of the mobile phone — have been attributed to activities like talking on the phone while crossing the tracks, clicking selfies and taking videos. The worst killer, though, was the ear phone, where victims were listening to songs. “The combination of the cellphone and the ear phone is deadly and makes it difficult for the listener to realise how close a moving train may be,” additional director-general of police (railways) Adhir Sharma said. “We are doing everything on our part to raise awareness,” he added.
 
  
 GRP figures available with TOI show that the Sealdah division, with 1,070 deaths, accounted for a third of the state’s tally of 3,200 deaths in 2017. The Howrah GRP division, in contrast, saw around 870 deaths the same year; Kharagpur accounted for 300-plus and the Siliguri division 40. Bengal records the second highest number of deaths on railway tracks in the country, the highest being in Maharashtra; an average of seven people were killed daily on railway tracks in 2017 in Mumbai alone.
 
 Special drives by both Indian Railways and the GRP seem to have failed to reduce the avoidable loss of life because of mobile-phone use on rail tracks despite the total number of track deaths coming down in 2017 from the past two years. Overall track deaths have reduced by between 5% and 10% in different police station jurisdiction but the proportion of deaths attributed to cell phone use has remained almost constant in the past three years (14% to 16%).
 
 A recent study, “Pattern of   in Sealdah (South) Section”, by two forensic experts — NRS Hospital assistant professors Dr Anindya Kumar Goswami and Dr Sumanta Malik — has blamed use of the phone for around 15% of all track deaths between September 2015 and August 2016, with people either talking on the phone or taking selfies. “The large number of deaths in the Sealdah division can be attributed to the fact that both sides of the tracks are densely populated,” a GRP official said.
 
 GRP officials say they have started taking the issue seriously. “Eastern Railway makes periodic announcements and carries advertisements against clicking selfies. We have been taking regular drives to desist people from crossing railway tracks and have undertaken awareness campaigns, like posters on platforms, distribution of pamphlets and staging plays,” a senior IPS officer said. The GRP action followed the March 2017 death of three youths near Liluah in Howrah where a chain of events was set off by an accident while taking a selfie on a running train.
 
 
