HYDERABAD: The absence of earmarked zones and lack of planning has added to the slow movement of traffic in many areas in the city.

 The   Municipal Corporation Street Vending Policy, which proposed 81 vending zones, once implemented can reduce traffic woes, say experts and traffic police.
 
 Traffic is often slowed down due to street hawkers in areas including Secunderabad, Kukatpally, Koti, Mehdipatnam, Charminar, and also Sultan Bazaar. 
 
 
  
 
 "Hawkers occupy a major portion of the road even during peak hours which increases the travel time substantially," said  , a bank employee who uses   often. 
 
 According to traffic cops, hawkers have moved into residential areas and connecting bylanes in colonies.
 
 "Hawkers have also shifted to connecting roads and by-lanes obstructing the flow of traffic. Introducing no vending zones in selected areas is the only solution for the traffic menace," said A V  , deputy commissioner of police (traffic), Hyderabad.
 
 According to the Street Vending Policy, the city has to be categorised into no vending zone, partial vending zones and always vending zones.   has identified partial vending zones, and always vending zones. They are yet to mark no vending zones.
 
 "We have marked 98 partial vending zones and always vending zones, in many areas including Serilingampally Circle which covers a part of IT Corridor, Quthbullapur Circle and Alwal Circle. The no vending zones will be marked soon," said V   additional commissioner, Urban Community Development wing. Hawkers are not allowed in the no vending zones while in the partial vending zone, hawkers are allocated a specific time for their business.
 
 The Central government has directed all states to implement Street Vendors (Protection of Livelihood; Regulation of Street Vending) Act 2014. According to the Act, municipalities should ensure free flow of traffic while implementing the policy which secures hawkers and protects their livelihood and social security.
 
  Did you have a bad experience on the road today, or stuck in a jam for long ? And if you live in an area which needs attention? Please write about your experience to traffictoireaders@gmail.com and we will take it up with the authorities.
 
 
