CHENNAI/MUMBAI: There are 48 MPs and MLAs in the country who have declared in their poll affidavit that they faced cases related to   against  , including rape. At 12, Maharashtra had the most number of lawmakers accused of crimes against women.

 Among these legislators and parliamentarians, the maximum number of 12 MPs and MLAs belong to the BJP, followed by seven from the Shiv Sena and six from the Trinamool Congress, said a study conducted by the Association for Democratic Reforms (ADR). Of the 48, three are MPs and the rest are MLAs.
 
 Of the 48 MLAs and MPs, three MLAs, namely Gonuguntla Suryanarayana (TDP, Dharmavaram constituency in Andhra Pradesh), Jethabhai G Ahir (BJP, Shehra constituency in Gujarat) and Gulab Yadav (RJD, Jhanjharpur constituency in Bihar) revealed that they faced rape charges. In the last five years, recognized parties gave tickets to 26 candidates who disclosed that they faced rape cases.
 
 The ADR study was released in the wake of the CBI arrest of Bangarmau BJP   Kuldeep Singh Sengar after he was booked by the Uttar Pradesh police for the alleged rape of a 17-year-old in Unnao.
 
 The ADR studied the affidavits of 327 candidates who had disclosed in their affidavits that they faced cases of crimes against women.
 
 The MLAs and MPs were booked under several sections of the IPC. Among these were sections on crimes against women — in most cases, Section 354 of the IPC for threat or use of criminal force to outrage modesty and Section 509 of ther IPC for word, gesture or act to insult modesty. Some legislators were even booked for abduction with intent to secretly and wrongfully confine and insult the modesty of a woman.
 
 “With news of women or children being raped and murdered, including the Kathua and Unnao cases, making headlines every day, we decided to check the affidavits of our legislators and see how many have criminal cases relating to crimes against women pending against them,” ADR founder Jagdeep Chokkar said.
 
 The ADR sought fast tracking of these cases.
 
 Reacting to the report, the Congress slammed the BJP. 
 
 “Maximum number of cases of crimes against women have been registered against BJP leaders, so called Hindu dharma rakshaks,” said Sanjay Nirupam, former   and Mumbai Congress president.
 
 NCP spokesman Nawab Malik said there could be instances of rival politicians being behind the cases. He also sought fast-tracking of the cases.
 
 
