GURUGRAM: Amid protests, the enforcement wing of   ( ) demolished around 80 structures on the land earmarked for development of the auto market in Sector 10.

 The traffic movement was obstructed on   road for a while owing to protests that followed the demolition drive. However, traffic was normalised soon with the intervention by police. Around 55 acres of prime land was earmarked for the development of auto market to bring all the shops of automotive parts at one place. The project has remained a non-starter for 14 years and the site has virtually turned into a construction & demolition (C&D) waste dump ground.
 
 Huda administrator   had inspected the site recently and was shocked to see encroachment on the land. Following this, the enforcement wing was directed to carry a demolition drive. Struggling through a financial crisis Huda is now focusing on managing its estate. Huda still has a huge chunk of land in different parts of the city. But encroachment has emerged as the biggest challenge for authority.
 
 Of late, land mafia had started selling plots and constructing houses for renting purpose. Last year Huda had demolished a temple illegally constructed on the land. “Some people were illegally developing the land,” said senior Huda official. Some of the residents claimed to have bought the land while some said they were renting houses. “We demolished the structures that were illegally constructed on Huda land,” said sub-divisional-engineer of Huda HS Jakhad.
 
 An auto market was planned by Huda on 55 acres in Sector 10, to avoid spurt of haphazard roadside shops for automotive parts and mechanics. In August 2002 then chief minister   laid the foundation stone of the project. At present auto, markets are on Old Delhi Road, Khandsa Road, Bhim Nagar, Nehru Stadium and Sheetlamata Mandir. “These markets cause a heavy traffic jam on these roads,” said senior Huda official adding that to de-congest these areas auto market was proposed to shift all these markets at one place.
 
 
