 needs no introduction — a children’s rights activist, he has relentlessly worked for the cause for two decades with 20,000 organisations across 150 countries. BT caught up with the   (recipient of the 2014 Nobel Peace Prize) when he was in Mumbai recently. He spoke about the burning issues of child abuse and rape, and the need for fast-track courts for pending cases under Prevention of Children from Sexual Offences Act (POCSO). Excerpts...

 
 
 There is a moral epidemic of child sexual abuse in most cities and towns, including Mumbai. These kids are working as child labourers in small-scale industries, domestic helps or are enslaved in prostitution and pornography. The issue requires immediate attention, awareness and action — people should know about the problem. Education, sensitisation and proactive efforts by the society are needed. In cases of child sexual abuse, the victims and survivors are stigmatised and face a lot of problems, while the perpetrators move around freely. Social mobilisation, awareness and the role of parents and teachers are important to safeguard the interest of children in the present situation. The government and its agencies should also be sensitised and trained. They need to prioritise the issues of children in the enforcement of law.
 
 
 
 ‘Khoob ladi mardani woh toh, Jhansi wali rani thi’ is a popular poetry by Subhadra Kumar Chauhan, where Rani Lakshmibai was called ‘mardani’, and that mindset still remains. If a girl is doing something praiseworthy, then she is praised saying, ‘Bahut mardana kaam kiya hai,’ why not janana? When it comes to strength, vigour and intelligence, the work is always attributed to a man. That mindset has to change. Positive masculinity has to be promoted in society.
 
 
 
 I am calling it a national emergency, because two children are raped, four are sexually abused and eight go missing every hour in India — these are government statistics, the National Crime Records Bureau’s data. The reality is perhaps much more bitter and bigger.
 Children do not speak out in most cases. In 70 to 80 per cent of cases, the perpetrator is a relative, uncle, neighbours or a known person. If this isn’t a national emergency, then what is? Far more proactive and robust efforts are needed to deal with this kind of emergency. We recently marched 12,000 kms across the country and around 1.2 million people physically joined me during this long march.
 I just have one question to ask in schools, colleges, courts, and to judges and police officers, ‘Can you sit in peace when your daughter comes home late at night?’ Ladki thoda late se ghar aayegi toh panic ho jayega. If her phone battery is down, the family goes crazy with worry. Irrespective of whether you are a politician, judge or a police officer, Bharat mein kaunsa parivaar aisa hai jo keh sake ki unki betiyaan surakshit hain? This is a national emergency.
 
 
 
 Sensitisation, involvement and accountability of all the stakeholders and sections of the society — right from the judiciary, police, corporates, NGOs and most importantly, institutions of faith — are essential.
 Religious leaders should come together to speak, kyunki unki baaton ka jyada asar hota hai. When institutions of faith denounce sexual abuse and rape, and condemn it as an act of sin and oust the predators from the community, then it reaches the public. 
 
 
 
 The report highlights the time taken to dispose a case of sexual abuse and rapes of minors in different states. For instance, states like Arunachal Pradesh will take over 99 years, while in other states, it could be anywhere between 20-50 years. So, a rape victim today has to wait till she becomes a grandmother and go along with her grandchildren to attend the court hearings. This is a cruel joke on the children of this country. Why should they wait? If any system of governance, judiciary, and society is putting children through these — to get justice, education, freedom and safety, it is a sick society. In 10 different states, we are training the senior police officers and setting up model child-friendly police stations.
 
 
 
 For the first time, in over 100 years, the issues of child labour, abuse and trafficking were being considered by the Nobel Committee. The Nobel Peace Prize had never before been conferred on a cause like this. I was lucky. However, when the Nobel Prize was announced, I was ready because of the global work I’ve done over 20 years. Several prime ministers, former prime ministers and presidents, who are Nobel laureates themselves called me, including  . Later, when we met in an informal set-up, I told him, ‘I am not talking to you as a campaigner, or as an advocate for children. Nor am I talking to a president. I am just talking to a fellow Nobel laureate and appeal to you to support my demand for the inclusion of child slavery, child labour, child trafficking,and violence against children in the SGDs (sustainable development goals).’ And he did not think twice. Later, I met all the key world leaders and they too agreed. The same demand, the same person, but just the Nobel tag helped in changing their listening capacity and understanding. They did not question. I was amazed to see that just one medal could do all this, which I have already given away to the nation (President of India’s Museum).
 So, now in the global development agenda, children and their issues are figuring prominently. That is a major paradigm shift of an issue, from the human right domain to the development domain. It a critical thing that I achieved and I am happy about it.
 
 
 
 > He had set up a temporary tea stall at the Ramlila Ground, and along with tea, sold samosas and pakodas, which they made themselves to save the cost of hiring a halwai.
 > An excellent cook, he first got the hang of cooking when he was 14.
 > He is passionate about driving on difficult terrains and mountains.
 
