TIRUNELVELI: Huge banners with pictures of political leaders erected by supporters of political parties on the SN High Road in the city may give an impression that elections are round the corner. But a closer examination reveals that all of them have been erected to greet devotees for the Kumbabishekam of Nellaiappar remple to be held on Friday.

 Most of these banners have been erected by supporters of   founder  , with the pictures of the leader taking the centrestage. Banners have also been erected by DMK, Makkal Neethi Maiyam and DMDKwith pictures of Stalin, Kamal Hassan and Vijayakanth respectively. Supporters of actor-turned spiritual politician Rajinikanth have also erected a few banners with the pictures of the superstar on them. Over a dozen banners have been erected in front of the Tirunelveli corporation office including its entrances. Though they directly obstruct the footpaths and force people to walk on the road they have not been removed.
 
 Many of these banners protrude on to the road and obstruct movement of vehicles. One cannot miss these banners on the S N High Road and around the Nelliappar temple. If not removed by Thursday, these would also inconvenience devotees who would throng the place for the kumbabishekam organised after 14 years. All these cock a snook at the officials supposed to be observing road safety week statewide. 
 
 Social activist G Siva Natarajan told TOI that such banners started mushrooming last Thursday, eight days ahead of kumbabishekam. “Seeing one of the parties erecting the banners, others started putting up theirs. They started mushrooming from Friday and I took it to the notice of district collector Sandeep Nanduri over phone on Saturday,” he said. On Monday, Siva submitted a petition to the collector on the banners, the inconveniences caused by them, the dangers they posed to road users and sought their removal. “With only a day left for the grand event these disturbing banners are yet to be removed,” he added. Tirunelveli corporation commissioner V Narayanan Nair told Siva that he would get back to him on the issue.
 
 Traffic police officers said that they were aware of the inconveniences but have not got orders for removing them. They also said that it was up to the corporation to remove them. Sandeep Nanduri said that many of the banners had been erected after applying for permission. However, those that have been put up illegally would be removed.
 
 
