Chandigarh: The proposal to move wholesale traders from the Sector 26   to the newly-developed grain market in Sector 39 has been a slow burner and nothing new in this respect has happened so far. 

 According to the officials of UT’s state agricultural marketing board, the possibility of the new Grain Market to gain momentum and beginning hosting licensed shop holders from Grain Market Sector 26 will further take some more years.
 
 The delay has come to the fore due to the unavailability of a ‘consultancy’ firm which will help the agricultural board to help deliberate upon the ‘area development plan’ and also to prepare a detailed project report (DPR), which are yet to be discussed. “We are in the middle of the process right now. A memorandum of understanding (MoU) needs to be signed with a consultancy, before we move into the second phase of development. The tenders have been floated almost seven days ago, for a period of fifteen days. We are waiting for the consultants to be on board. Only then something can happen,” said Manoj Khatri, assistant estate officer (AEO) of Chandigarh administration.
 
 The consultancy will remain responsible for the execution of the development process of the market as and when it enters in its second phase, for a period of three years.
 
 A survey of the entire site will also take place, during which roads, solar power, auction booths, electricity, public health services and effluent treatment plants will be put to place as well. 
 
 The new grain market is being constructed on a an area of 75 acres, which is over twice as much space than the existing grain market in Sector 26. However till date, only 22 acres of the land has been developed for the market in the first phase of development. The work on the remaining 53 acres is yet to begin, which will be taken up in phase II of construction of the market.
 
 “Once on board, the consultancy will suggest us the best way forward. We have also taken a loan of Rs 100 crore to carry on the required work on the market land,” added Khatri. 
 
 In the revised plan that was approved in 2016, the number of shops in the fruit and vegetable market were increased from 92 to 130, while the SCOs were reduced from 82 to 35. 
 
 
