NAGPUR: It was a day to remember for singers who belted out one hit song after the other of accomplished music director  , in her presence, at a programme titled ‘Zindagi Pyar Ka Geet Hai’, organized on the eve of International Women’s Day, at Dr   on Wednesday.

 The programme was organized by Harmony Events in which songs composed by Khanna, who carved a niche for herself in the otherwise male-dominated Bollywood music industry, got overwhelming response from the  . 
 
 A visibly pleased Khanna said, “Nagpur is very close to my heart as my relatives stay here and I have lots of memories. The city continues to fascinate me. Music binds people in a common thread and has to be taken seriously as it brings joy in the otherwise mundane life.” 
 
 Taking her point further, Khanna said, the profession has produced women icons and earned respect of the people. Women are at par with men in almost every field today and their contribution cannot be ignored. She also expressed happiness that the organizers gave equal opportunities to women and men in presenting the music show.
 
 The songs that moved the audience were deeply associated with heart. ‘Dil ke tukde tukde karke, muskurate chaal diye’ and ‘Dil deke dekho’ were the numbers that won hearts. Besides these, songs like ‘Teri galiyo mein na rakhenge kadam,’ ‘Ajnabi kaun ho tum’, ‘Chand ke paas jo sitara hai’, ‘Pyaar karte hai hum tumse kitna’, ‘Zindagi pyar ka geet hai’ and ‘Bin phere hum tere’ cast a spell on the audience. 
 
 The songs were presented by Jyotiraman Iyer, Manish, Akanksha Nagarkar, Arvind  , Sagar Madhumatke, Sanjay Potdukhe, Unnikrishnan Nair, Parvati Nair and Arvind Patil. They were accompanied by Raja Rathod, Parimal Joshi, Prakash Chauhan, Rinku Nikhare, Nandu Gohde, Pankaj Yadav, Ashok Tokalwar, Rajesh Dhamankar and Ujwala Gokarna.
 
 Rajesh Samarth, organizer of the event, said, “Women have been instrumental in bringing about a change since time immemorial. In the modern age, they are working shoulder-to- shoulder with their male counterparts which indicates the progress women have made. The show was organized to give respect to women they deserve.” The amateur singers are from different professions, but came together to celebrate womanhood, he added.
 
 Singer Patil said the programme was intended to foster sense of belonging towards women in day-to-day life and honour them and served the purpose.
 
 
