CHANDIGARH: Former Prime Minister Dr Manmohan   expressed concern over the rise in atrocities against minorities and Dalits and “a dangerous and false binary now surfacing in Indian political discourse”. Redflagging the issue of undermining of the electoral system by use of money power and muscle power, he voiced fear that people may be veering towards more authoritarian alternatives.

 Singh was delivering the first Prof SB Rangnekar Memorial Oration lecture on “the seventieth anniversary of our Independence — strengthening the roots of our democracy" as the   professor at his alma mater Panjab University, Chandigarh, on Wednesday.
 
 Quoting Dr B R Ambedkar, one of the architects of the Constitution, the ex-PM said, “We must ensure that we do not fall into the trap of choosing government for the people over government by and of the people.”
 
 
 
 Former Prime Minister Dr   said, "We need to ask ourselves whether we are losing patience with democracy and turning to more authoritarian alternatives that may well yield superior short-term results but in the long term will end up destroying our country and all the achievements of the last 70 years.” The noted also economist spoke of the need to focus on growing economic inequality. Warning that the rise in atrocities against minorities and Dalits can harm our democracy, he urged people to strongly reject divisive policies and politics.
 
 Manmohan Singh said, "A dangerous and false binary is now surfacing in Indian political discourse, which must be firmly rejected. It is that we have to choose between freedom and development. It is not a new binary.”
 
 Pointing out that freedom of a country did not mean the freedom of just its government, he said, “Freedom is, the freedom to question, the freedom to express one's views, howsoever troubling they may be for others....” He stressed that without a firm commitment to this idea of freedom, democracy would not survive.
 
 He said fraternity, as stated in the statute, is based on the dignity of the individual and the unity and integrity of the nation, and referred to “attempts being made to divide Indian people on the basis of religion and caste, language and culture."
 
 Invoking Dr Ambedkar, the former PM said, “It is not that India was never an independent country....Will Indians place the country above their creed or will they place creed above country? I do not know. But this much is certain that if the parties place creed above country, our independence will be put in jeopardy a second time and probably be lost forever…”
 
