HYDERABAD: In the wake of allegations of sand mafia thriving on illegal extraction and transportation of sand in various districts especially on the Godavari and Krishna river banks, the state government has decided to monitor sand supply for irrigation projects and 2-BHK scheme. As of now, the procurement and transportation of bulk supplies of sand for both are not monitored.

 The industries department has asked   (TSMDC) to monitor sand supplies with immediate effect. As per the directive, the corporation will give individual sand permits to contractors and check the sand quantity through weigh-bridges. The contractors have to account for the sand lifted and used. TSMDC will establish a checkpost at each sand reach with boom barrier and provide security guards round the clock to check illegal transportation.
 
 Opposition parties have been alleging that a sand mafia is thriving in the districts and even resorting to attacks on people who try to obstruct the illegal sand movement through their villages. 
 
 The TSMDC has submitted a report to governor ESL   a couple of days ago, sources in the   said.
 
 As of now, the revenue and mines and geology departments have been issuing bulk sand permits to contractors. "There are reports that revenue, police and mining officials have colluded with illegal sand contractors and allowing transportation. In  , about 10 tractors which were seized were let off after an agreement with the officials," an official admitted.
 
 To put an end to large-scale illegal extraction and supply in the name of projects, the state government has taken some measures. For irrigation projects, especially  , sand will continue to be supplied from   by mapping the number of lorries plying to different routes from Sircilla, an order issued by the industries department said.
 
 "The corporation will assess the requirement of each district and allow sand transportation on a specific day. Police will provide two personnel and the mines and geology department will depute its personnel at the check-posts round the clock," TSMDC MD   told TOI.
 
 
