Sampat Kanwar, a resident of Chaura Rasta, regularly visits the   for walks in the morning. She loves the peaceful atmosphere of the place but in recent times, her peaceful mornings, like many others’, often get disturbed thanks to some bikers, who zoom past the garden on their two-wheelers that have modified silencers. The loud noise is created when bikers remove the company-fitted silencer and install a ‘loud pipe’ that does not have the filters that a regular silencer does. While these bikers get a kick out of it, this ‘patakha’ sound, as it’s colloquially called, becomes a cause of nuisance for others. Talking about this,  , DCP (Traffic), says, “We regularly take action against such people and impose a fine of `1,000 on first- time offenders and `2000 for second or subsequent offences. In 2017, we had registered 318 cases under Section 190(2) of the Motor Vehicle Act, 1988.” Jaipur Times talks to residents and traffic officials who admit that while the problem is real, people also need to come forward more and register official complaints when they notice bikers flouting norms. 
 
  
 
 
 Residents complain that these incidents are creating nuisance in Jaipur. And the victims are not just people, but animals too. Sharing her experience, Sampat Kanwar says, “Surrounded by lush greenery, the Ram Niwas Garden has a bird feeding spot. I go there in the mornings. Hundreds of pigeons are spotted there throughout the day as people feed them. But recently, I keep coming across bikers who zoom past, creating dreadful noise, thanks to their modified silencers. It’s not only disturbing for people, the noise is terrible for the birds too. They don’t even understand what’s happening. I really feel bad for them,” she says. 
  
  
  
 
 
 A resident of Bajaj Nagar, Garima Rastogi, who is preparing for competitive exams, says, “Once, along with a friend, I was passing by Bajaj Nagar Road. A biker riding his machine came quite close to us and then he suddenly created that gunfire-like sound. I felt something exploded next to my ears. My friend, who was carrying a shopping bag, almost fell on the road as she was shaken by this unexpected noise. Seeing us flustered, all the guy did was laugh. It was as if he was proud of his action. Traffic authorities must take stern action against them.”
 Nidhi Jain, a practising CS living in Pratap Nagar, says “They are no less than hooligans on the streets. I have witnessed that many times young bikers create this blast-like-noise while riding to attract girls’ attention. While doing so, they forget that they are harming the environment.”
  
 
 
 Under section 190(2) of the Motor Vehicle Act, 1988, causing this kind of noise – silencer blasts – is an offence. Meanwhile, traffic officials say that more people should come forward to register official complaints. 
 A cop (who refuses to be named), who mans the traffic at C- Scheme area, says, “Pehli baat toh bike ka modifications hi traffic norms ka violation hai. Uske baad log bike mein aise silencers lagwa lete hain.” He adds, “If someone is creating noise in front of us, we immediately take action. But if they are doing this in places where there are no cops, people must come forward and register official complaints.”
 Sahil Singhal, deputy chief traffic warden, reiterates, “The problem is often people do not approach the traffic police and complain against these miscreants.”
  
  
 Some traffic policemen say that they have bigger issues to think of. A traffic cop, Sumerdan, says, “Logon ko traffic norms sikhana humhara kaam hai. Lekin first priority un problems ko suljhana hai, jo jyada nuksaan karti hain. Pehle speed, driving without helmets aur seat belt na pehena jaise 
 problems zyada serious hain. We have to deal with those first.”
 
  
  
 
 
 Rishi Raj Singh, a biker of a city-based riders club and a government employee, advocates strict action. “Teaching traffic rules and regulations to certain kind of people, especially those who draw pleasure from such brazen acts on streets, is a very tough task. Offenders creating high decibel noises should be dealt with strictly. They create panic and cause noise pllution too.” 
 Another biker Saurabh Jain seconds the idea and says, “Until and unless laws are stricter, you can’t deter miscreants. When a rider is punished for riding without wearing a helmet or a car driver for not wearing a seatbelt, than why not a miscreant who is polluting the environment with high decibel noises as well as terrifying people on the road?”
 Anil Gautam, biker and a pioneer in introducing motor sport activities in Jaipur, has been organising various sessions for teaching traffic rules to youngsters. Founder of an organisation dedicated to motor sports in city, Anil tells us, “We regularly host training and awareness campaigns in schools and colleges for youngsters. We talk about road manners. We discourage them from using exhaust pipe in bikes, which creates noise pollution.” Anil, however, feels that awareness programmes, and not challans and arrests, are key to dealing with this problem in the long-term. 
 
