PUNE: Construction of the   began nearly 10 years ago but the project is officially complete only in the Pune Municipal Corporation’s (PMC) books. 

 Still stuck in litigation, a slip road from Ahmednagar Road towards the New Airport Road is incomplete. The new flank has been engineered in a manner that it circles the plot of another former litigant who has refused to vacate her premises.
 
  
 As of now, the new flank is quite dangerous.  , a resident of the area, barely escaped an accident on Saturday night while returning home from his   office.
 
 “The new flank from Vimannagar to   has finally opened. I was hoping that the frequent wrong-side driving would finally come to an end. I was shocked to find that the problem actually increased. Vehicles from Ahmednagar Road are taking the wrong side to come down to the Airport Road and are either trying to go towards the airport, or taking the underpass. One of those cars nearly struck my scooter while making a u-turn towards the underpass,” Chauhan recounted.
 
 The result has been that motorists have to take a slight left turn, and then almost a 90-degree turn right, all the while negotiating a steep downward slope. Any indiscretion on the driver’s part may end up in him or her driving straight into a guard wall ahead. While the ramp towards Ahmednagar Road is strictly a one-way, wrong-side driving is rampant, with vehicles travelling on the wrong flank for almost a kilometre, before switching flanks. Lighting, till now, is also extremely poor at the junction.
 
 “The road design is extremely faulty and dangerous. Some local politicians opened this flank of the underpass last week for publicity, and have put up illegal posters boasting about their work. There are no proper reflectors, direction boards, or other road furniture to guide motorists,” civic activist Qaneez Sukhrani said. She has written to the PMC, with a copy to the chief minister’s office, seeking a probe into the project.
 
 The local traffic police admitted that there were issues at the underpass. They said they were not consulted by the civic body before opening the new flank. “There are serious traffic issues at the underpass, and the new flank is somewhat dangerous for motorists. I saw this morning that they have started installing some road furniture like blinkers, reflectors, and rumble strips. We were never consulted by PMC in the first place, so there is no question of approving their pla,” Mahadeo Gawade, assistant commissioner (Zone-IV), traffic police department, said, adding that he has written about these concerns to the PMC.
 
 As for the civic body, none of them had a concrete response about the increasing traffic mess, or the design flaws of the new flank. “We will look into the issues,” an official said. 
 
 
