AMRITSAR: Claims of a UK-based Sikh NGO to having support of around 70 gurdwaras deciding to ban entry of Indian diplomats was exposed after a Sikh councillor from Sharnbrok objected to including names of Bedford gurdwaras. “I am a committee member of a local gurdwara and life member of all gurdwaras in Bedford. No such ban has been imposed by any Bedford gurdwara. I have also spoken to other gurdwaras of east England and found that no such ban is in place. No such matter has been even discussed by their committees,”   told TOI on Saturday.

 Sekhon is the member Sharnbrok council. He had reportedly spoken to official committee representatives of all gurdwaras in Bedford and confirmed that no such meeting had taken place involving any gurdwara committee to ban entry of Indian diplomats.
 
 “We will also discuss this issue with our local MP Mohammed Yasin and other MPs   and Preet Kaur Gill. This matter will be taken up through our elected representatives as we see this as pure fabrication of information involving many gurdwaras without doing any basic checks. Such reporting needs to be tackled seriously,” Sekhon said.
  
  
 
 Sekhon said he had talked to gurdwara committees in three other towns (Milton Keynes Ramgharia Society, Northampton Ramgrahia Society, Cambridge gurdwara) over the phone regarding the issue. “All of them stated that they had not imposed any ban but names of towns of Bedford, Northampton, Milton Keyes and Cambridge were also in the original list,” he added.
 
 On January 8, a UK-based Sikh body had issued a press release claiming that the management committees of 70 gurdwaras in the country had formalized a ban on entry of Indian government officials. 
 
 Sekhon also forwarded a letter of chairman of the British Sikh Association (BSA) and a community leader Raminder Singh Ranger to TOI vehemently opposing any such ban. The letter states that Sikh gurus and their followers lived exemplary lives and paid supreme sacrifices for India so that they could be revered and the Sikhs respected forever. He also cited the ramifications of ban on entry of Indian diplomats in gurdwaras. 
 
 
 
 
 On January 22, president of Guru Nanak gurdwara Darshan Singh had stated, “Not at any point have we have verbally or in writing banned Indian government officials from Guru Nanak gurdwara in Bedford.”
 
 On January 24, president of   in Bedford Jaswinder Kumar wrote, “The executive management committee at Sri Guru Ravidas Sabha, Bedford, confirms that we have not banned any Indian officials into our gurdwara. Any news that named our gurdwara or Sri Guru Ravidass Sabha Bedford’s name is wrong.” He also said action would be taken against anyone for falsely misrepresenting and using the gurdwara’s name wrongly.
 
 president of Ramgharia Sikh Society, Bedford, Malkit Singh Sembhi and president of Ramgharia Sikh Society, Northampton, Narinder Singh Suri in their respective letters had stated that their gurdwaras had not imposed any ban on Indian officials and anyone and naming their gurdwaras in the ban list was not true.
 
