VADODARA: Nearly 500 parents gathered at the Kamatibaug garden band stand on Sunday in a meeting organised by   (VPA) to discuss the alleged high-handedness of management of private schools on the   issue.

 Although the meeting was primarily called to discuss fees sought by a group of schools in the city, there was participation of parents from other schools as well. 
 
 The association has unanimously condemned the actions by private schools of withholding results of students, not issuing leaving certificates and threatening kids over non-payment of fees. 
 
 During the meeting that witnessed presence of members of parents teachers associations, advocates and parents, it was resolved that a mega sammelan of parents will be also organised in the next week to chalk out further course of action. 
 
 VPA has resolved that in view of the interim order of the Supreme Court in connection to the Gujarat Self Financed Schools (Regulation of Fees) Act, 2017 and the state government’s decision of fixing Rs 15,000, Rs 25,000 and Rs 30,000 as new upper limits, no parents should pay advance fees for the next academic year till the fee regulatory committee (FRC) decides over proposals moved by the schools. 
 
 VPA has also decided that it will form small groups so that parents who are not aware about different provisions of the Act and their rights are made aware about the same in future. 
 
 Terming Sunday’s meeting a huge success, VPA office-bearers said that the teams formed by them will also ensure that no school withheld results of students on the grounds that the fees demanded by them has not been submitted.
 
 “Most of the schools have started threatening kids to pay the fees even as the matter is pending with the FRC. We have resolved that all parents will wait till the FRC takes its decision,” said a VPA office-bearer.
 
 Bright group takes lenient view
 
 Vadodara: Jayendra Shah, chairman of Bright group of schools on Sunday announced that if parents are facing problems in paying provisional fees as demanded by the schools under the group, such parents can pay the fees in the month of May. 
 
 “The circular that we had issued was pertaining to the provisional fees as per the Supreme Court guidelines. But in case some parents do not want to pay this provisional fees, we are not going to force them in anyway. To pay the provisional fees or not, is the choice they have to make. If they trust the school, they can pay the fees. If not, they can pay whenever the Supreme Court decides over the matter,” he said.
 
 Shah added that school has never withheld results, hall tickets or leaving certificates of students on the grounds of non-payment of fees.
 
 
