JAIPUR/ALWAR: The   (STR), where a firstof-its-kind tiger translocation programme was taken up in 2008 at the behest of then prime minister  , is proving to be an unsafe habitat for the big cats.

 The reserve is once again in the grip of poachers, apparently in the absence of effective monitoring by the   forest administration. The worst fears of the country's tiger lovers came true when the second incident of poaching was reported from STR on Monday.
 
 
 The death of four-year-old male tiger, ST-11, after getting entangled in a barbed wire fence at a farmland adjoining the (STR) on Monday underlines the department’s failure in preventing poaching of big cats. Earlier, ST-1, the first tiger that was relocated from  , was poisoned by the villagers in 2010.
 
 Besides, the department has been unable to trace tigress ST-5 which went missing from STR on February 24.
 
 Rajpal Singh, a tiger expert and member of National Tiger Conservation Authority (NTCA), said, “The death of tiger ST-11 just two kilometres from the STR headquarters raises a big question mark on forest officials’ tracking system. Illegal activities such as laying of traps for wild animals are prevalent in STR. All these incidents are happening due to politics within the forest staff. The deployment of local guards is deterring the efficiency of other guards who are willing to work.” Many fear that if timely action is not taken by the forest administration, such incidents would not only tarnish the state’s image but will also make the poachers fearless. Former chief minister   tweeted on Tuesday: “This is a very serious matter that the tiger, ST-11, from Sariska Tiger Reserve, who was caught in a barbed wire fence has died and the tigress ST–5 is also missing for many days. It’s my demand that the state government must form a committee of wildlife experts… there must be a complete investigation in this matter and the culprits must be punished.” Cops arrested farmer Bhagwan Sahay Prajapat in whose farm fence the tiger ST-11 had got entangled. A team raided the accused’s house and confiscated tools that were being used to lay traps for wild animals. According to the forest department sources, the accused had poached many nilgais (bluebulls) and wild boars earlier.”
 
