AHMEDABAD: The   (FRC) has stated that colleges will not be able to   like   to bypass caps set by  . The committee has said that it is open to students to complain by email to the FRC in case any college attempts to coerce them to pay more fees than set by the government, or tries to coax out money under different pretexts other than institute fees. If any college is found guilty the FRC will take stringent action.

  
  Janak Vakil, member of the FRC said there are reports that several high-profile colleges are coercing students to pay fees according to the demand of the institute and not what is set by the FRC. In many such colleges, students have been asked to give undertaking that they will not insist on payment according to the cap set by the government authorities.
 
 Vakil said that despite receiving order from the FRC to refund excess fees, the Gujarat Institute of Technical Studies, Prantij, has not initiated any action, and the committee has asked the institute to submit its explanation. If the college is found recalcitrant or negligent, the FRC might set an example. Several self-financed colleges have decided to challenge their respective fees as set by the FRC in the Gujarat high court as they feel the low fees will hamper the quality of education.
 
 Janak Khandwala the president of the   said, “I am not aware about colleges taking legal opinion, but the committee should have been reasonable in fixing the fees if they wanted to provide quality education to the students.”
 
 Khandwala said, “The FRC has not increased the fee in around 260 colleges which means that the college will have to function with limited resources. This will result in no salary hike for its staffers including teaching staff. Apart from these, the college will also have to bear the burden of GST hike in several components.”Survival of many colleges are at stake, said Khandwala, and that quality professors will move to other colleges which have deeper pockets, while students will have to bear the brunt of the lack of quality teachers.
 
 
