 has a plethora of releases in 2018. While her Tamil film 'Sketch' hit the screens in the beginning of the year, the actress is looking forward to three releases in Telugu, including ' ', the remake of the Kangana Ranaut-starrer ' ' and an untitled film directed by Kunal Kohli. Meanwhile, she also has a Hindi and Tamil film in her kitty. In a candid chat with BT, Tamannaah talks about how ' ' helped her bag performance-oriented roles in movies and why the Telugu remake of 'Queen' will be compared not just to the original, but also three of its other remakes. Excerpts...

 
 Ever since I did 'Baahubali', the kind of roles I have been offered are far more liberating and there is a lot for me to do in movies. I am happy to be part of an Indian film, which has had such a huge impact not just nationally, but internationally as well. I receive fan art from Japanese fans! So, it’s interesting for me to see how an Indian film has influenced people from countries whose culture is very different from ours. I feel empowered by this. Producers and directors come up to me now and say that they want a performer in the film. Today, there are strong roles written for women. A movie like 'Baahubali', which is essentially a war film, not just had great scope for actors to perform, but also for actresses to prove their mettle. It proved that having strong female characters in a film, which is male-centric, is beneficial for the business.
 
 
 
 Queen was a project I was interested in ever since it released in Hindi. I suppose after Baahubali the producer felt that I would be ideal for the Telugu remake of Queen. I liked the original film and Kangana’s performance in it.
 
 
 
 My performance will not just be compared to Kangana because the film is also being remade in three other languages — Tamil, Malayalam and Kannada — and three other actresses will the essaying the same role. Clearly, there is a queen in each of us and all of us perceive and interpret the meaning of being a queen differently. 
 
 
 
 It’s a thriller and I play the role of a person who is deaf and mute. That’s clearly a first for me. In Indian cinema, horror and thriller are genres that haven’t been explored well. I have also wrapped up a Telugu film that’s been directed by filmmaker Kunal Kohli. It’s a female-centric film.
 
 
 
 The execution is pretty much the same. Essentially, the films reflect the culture of that place. In a Hindi film, Punjabi or Gujarati cultures get portrayed and sometimes, it’s not specific as it caters to a larger audience. In the South, they are particular about the nativity being kept intact. That’s the main difference. 
 
 
 
 One has to constantly upgrade oneself. You have to personally grow as an individual and constantly be able to create more interesting characters on screen. Today, it’s not just about being an actor, but about how we conduct ourselves on various social media platforms as well. That’s a challenging balance to strike.
 
 
 
 
