GURUGRAM: Over 500   on Monday staged a protest at   office in Sector 34 against, what they termed as, regular tiffs with residents over garbage dumping and collection. 

 They alleged in many areas, local residents had placed idols at designated waste pickup points, apparently to discourage sanitation workers from accumulating garbage there before transporting the rubbish to various landfills.
 
 Recently, councillor of ward No. 15   had a tiff with some sanitation workers after she objected to waste dumping at the pickup point in Krishna Nagar. 
 
 “Waste we are collecting is generated by the residents themselves. If they keep placing idols everywhere, where will the waste go?” wondered Kavita, a sanitation worker from Krishna Colony. 
 
 On Monday, the workers assembled in a park near the MCG office around 10am and stormed the office, after which cops intervened. Later, a few representatives of the workers met the MCG commissioner. They demanded designated sites for  , streamlining of the attendance system, uniforms and other tools for cleaning, as well as wage revision for temporary workers.
 
 “There are no designated spaces for workers to dump waste. The biometric system also doesn’t work properly, and we end up losing the day’s pay just because a defective machine didn’t register our attendance,” said Rajesh Kumar, district president, Nagar Palika Karamchari Sangh.
 
 After the meeting, MCG commissioner   said, “We have heard their concerns and will be taking appropriate steps. Till we allocate alternative sites, the existing points will serve as dumping pickup points.”
 
 When approached for a comment, councillor Seema Pahuja said, “An illegal dumping site has been made in the colony, right in front of several houses. It has been causing inconvenience to many people. This is why we erected a temporary tent and sat down at the dumping point. Whenever someone comes to dump garbage, we request them not to do so with folded hands.” 
 
 She denied placing an idol at the dumping point.
 
 
