KOLKATA: The State Election Commission has announced a three-phase schedule for the   rural polls beginning May 1. The schedule is less by two phases from the 2013 panchayat polls when the   directed a five-phase panchayat election for West Bengal.

 
 “The first phase of panchayat polls on May 1will be held in as many as 12 districts of south Bengal, the second phase on May 3 will cover two districts   and Birbhum, while elections will be held in six districts of north Bengal in the third phase on May 3 minus two districts — Darjeeling and Kalimpong,” said state election commissioner Amarendra Kumar Singh on Saturday.
 
 
  
 
 The counting will be held on May 8. The state government has declared a holiday on May 2 since the first day of the polls, May 1, coincides with the International Workers’ Day, a state holiday.
 
 Soon after SEC announcement, chief minister Mamata Banerjee held a meeting with panchayat minister   at Nabanna to take stock of the ongoing development works and fine tune the party’s campaign points.
 
 Unlike in 2013 when the SEC moved the Supreme Court over its differences with the state government over poll dates and also deployment of central forces, the present commissioner chose to stay away from any such controversy. Singh didn’t respond to questions on deployment of central forces despite the Opposition’s pleading for central forces.
 
  leader Manoj   feared that panchayat polls will become a farce without the presence of central forces. “We want central forces during the rural polls because without them the elections will end up in looting of votes,” Chakrabarty said.
 
  parties —   and Left — also wondered why the ruling Trinamool was in a hurry to hold the rural polls when the higher secondary examinations are on. “We are ready to face the elections. But the poll schedule leaves little time for campaign,” BJP state president Dilip Ghosh said. The BJP leader reminded that the Trinamool, then in Opposition, moved the high court in 1999 against holding of elections during examinations. The high court ruled against the government stand. “The party, now in government, has no problem starting the election process during examinations. Candidates have to file nominations by April 9 and the HS examinations will continue till April 12. We are taking legal opinion,” Ghosh said.
 
 
 Left Front leader Sujan Chakrabarty was dismayed with the SEC decision to hold the first phase of rural polls on the International Workers’ Day on May 1. “This is unprecedented. It reflects the government’s anti-working class stand. What was the hurry for holding polls when the term of the panchayat ends on July 19? People will give a befitting reply,” Chakrabarty said.
 
 
 The decision to keep only two districts — Murshidabad and Birbhum — in the second phase against 12 in the first phase, has raised eyebrows. These are two districts where the Trinamool has been facing challenges from Congress and BJP, an Opposition leader said.
 
