NEW DELHI: West Delhi’s Kirti Nagar police   has added a new feather to Delhi Police’s cap by bagging a place in the list of top 10   stations in India. Home minister Rajnath Singh on Saturday evening felicitated the   during the inauguration of a three day all-India conference of police chiefs in Gwalior.

 The police station secured the 10th rank after a thorough background check and an exhaustive evaluation process lasting six months. The criteria for selection were available amenities, infrastructure, crime scenario and the conduct and behaviour of police personnel posted there. It is learnt that the examining committee gave the station maximum points on patrolling, discipline and cleanliness.
 
 Appreciating the efforts of SHO Anil Sharma, police commissioner Amulya Patnaik said Kirti Nagar will be considered a model police station and best practices replicated across other stations in the capital.
 
 Dependra Pathak,   chief spokesperson, said that the police station has been able to maintain law and order, apart from having amenities like free Wi-Fi for the public, a cafeteria, purified water and coffee dispensers, quarantine rooms, signboards, clean washrooms and proper seating arrangements for visitors.
 
 “From the reception to lockups, it has set an example for other police stations in Delhi, which often come under criticism for being unfriendly. Food is available at subsidised rates for policemen as well as the public in the cafeteria,” said an officer.
 
 The Wi-Fi services can be accessed by visitors by registering their ID at the front desk. Apart from an indoor games room, the police station has a badminton court and a gym for policemen. The station also provides newspapers and legal literature in the visitors’ room.
 
 Area residents and businessmen can use the station’s dedicated website (www.pskirtinagar.com) to approach police for help. People can download various verification forms (like for tenants or helps) from the website, apart from lodging complaints with the SHO.
 
 Soon after taking charge, Patnaik had reiterated that policemen needed to give priority to people and their requirements. DCP Vijay Kumar and SHO Sharma worked under special commissioner P Kamaraj for bringing about the change.
 
 “Earlier, the reporting room was an old structure and there was no facility for visitors. There was no space for keeping documents. Also, there was no Sankarman Kaksh (isolation room for questioning of suspects). We made a state-of-the-art facility and built new washrooms. Clean toilets, drainage system and seepage issues were fixed. Beautification was taken up,” a senior officer said.
 
 From fax machines to installing CCTV cameras in the premises, the SHO also made a significant change in the condition of the lockup by providing mattresses, blankets in winters to having a clean and partitioned bathroom.
 
 “On the policing front, the station boasts of well-maintained registers of medico-legal cases and statements of witnesses in calls, standing orders & circulars and absconders and deserters list. The station has good coordination with other stakeholders, like the area SDM,” an officer added.
 
 
