Nagpur: The 10-day nationwide farmers’ strike called by Rashtriya Kisan Manch (RKM), an association of 110 outfits, did not have any impact in Vidarbha on the first day. In lines of what happened last year in Maharashtra, the activists are planning to stop supplies of farm produce like milk and vegetables from June 1 to 10. Even last year, the impact of the strike was limited to Western Maharashtra and Vidarbha remained aloof. A meeting to draw the strategy for the strike was held at Sewagram Ashram in Wardha on May 10. As TOI inquired in the hinterland, it was learnt that there was a cold response in the districts of Vidarbha. Srikanth Taral, RKM’s Vidarbha in-charge, said the plan was to stop supply of vegetables and milk which is not available in big amount in the region. “Since most of the farmland in Vidarbha is not irrigated, there is not much production of vegetables or other minor crops. Since Vidarbha is not a producing centre of such commodities, there is a little chance to make an impact by stalling its supply,” said Taral. There are plans to hold meetings in every taluka of Vidarbha and get support from the farmers. Though it may be simply in the form of expressing solidarity to the cause, it would certainly bring farmers from Vidarbha together, he said. “Demonstrations are planned to be held in parts of Vidarbha on June 6 to remember the six farmers of Madhya Pradesh’s Mandsaur district who were killed in police firing during the protests last year,” said Taral. As the major farm produce market of the region at Kalamna remains closed on Fridays, the impact could not be seen. “There was initial apprehension about supplies from neighbouring Chhindwara being blocked, but it has been learnt that even the markets there are open,” said a vegetable trader. Rajesh Chabrani, a fruit trader and a director of Agriculture Produce Marketing Committee (APMC) at Kalamna, said the market gets fruit supplies form Telangana and Andhra Pradesh. Since there is no inflow from within the state, no impact of the strike could be seen.