AMRITSAR: Canadian Prime Minister   not only paid obeisance at the   along with his family members and his cabinet colleagues, including Sikh ministers, but also held a meeting with Punjab chief minister   on Wednesday.

 Amid heavy security arrangements, Trudeau along with his wife Sophie Gregoire Trudeau, daughter Ella Grace and son Xavier arrived at the Golden Temple at around at 11.55 am and spent nearly an hour in the holiest of the Sikh shrines.
 
 While the Canadian PM and his son wore ‘kurtas,’ his wife and daughter wore Punjabi suits.
 
 His cabinet ministers: Harjit Singh Sajjan (defence), Navdeep Singh Bains (innovation, science and economic development), Bardish Chagger (small businesses and tourism) and Amarjit Singh Sohi (infrastructure) also accompanied them.
 
 He offered ‘karah parshad’ and rumala (sacred rectangular cloth for covering Guru Granth Sahib) at Darbar Sahib. Head granthi of the shrine Giani Jagtar Singh bestowed siropa (robe of honour) upon Trudeau and his family members in the sanctum sanctorum. He also gave a flower bouquet to Trudeau.
 
 The Canadian premier and his family members also received parshad (sacred pudding). Trudeau went inside the sanctum sanctorum from the service lane built on the causeway while his family members were on the other side. Trudeau not only reciprocated the greetings of the curious devotees with folded hands but also gladly allowed them to take selfies with him.
 
 Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president   and Shiromani Gurdwara Parbandhak Committee (SGPC) president Gobind Singh Longowal honoured Trudeau, his family members with siropa, shawl, a golden sword, a model of the Golden Temple and a set of religious books at the information centre of the Golden Temple.
 
 Earlier, Trudeau was received at Amritsar’s Sri Guru Ramdas International airport by the Union housing and urban affairs minister Hardeep Singh Puri and Punjab’s local government and cultural affairs and tourism minister Navjot Singh Sidhu.
 
 SAD chief Sukhbir along with SGPC president Longowal received Trudeau at the Golden Plaza. Canadian PM didn’t go to the Akal Takht—supreme temporal seat of Sikhs—and paid obeisance from outside.
 
 While circumambulating the Golden Temple, SGPC chief secretary and information officer Jaswinder Singh informed Trudeau about the historical places. The Canadian PM also got photographs clicked with Canadian and Indian ministers in the parikarma.
 
 A handful of Sikh hardliners, including general secretary of Shiromani Akali Dal (Amritsar) Jarnail Singh Sakhira, had arrived at the Golden Temple seeking permission to welcome Trudeau. However, they were refused by the police citing security reasons. As they insisted on welcoming Trudeau, they were detained and taken to a police station.
 
 
