BHUBANESWAR: After working with US-based Nigerian coach   for little more than a month here at the  , 100m national record holder   is planning to continue training under him at his clinic in New Orleans, Louisiana.

 
 "To better myself, I need to go abroad and compete with athletes who are running 100m at 9.9 or 10.1 seconds. Also we need a medical support team for recovery which is not here currently," said Mallick, who has earlier trained under  's coach   in Jamaica.
 
 The trip will be completely sponsored by the Odisha government but the dates have not been fixed yet. That is because at the moment his focus is on the first leg of the Indian Grand Prix (on Tuesday) and the Federation Cup National   (March 5-8) to be held in Patiala, both of which will act as selection trials for the upcoming Commonwealth Games.
 
 As far as working with Ariyo is concerned, Mallick is more than happy. "Being an IAAF Level V coach he is very knowledge. He has corrected a lot of my mistakes and I'm confident of achieving something special in the near future," he said.
 
 Meanwhile, Ariyo, who would be going back to the US in the wee hours of Monday, has been impressed by Amiya and wants to work with him as long as possible.
 
 "Although he is from India, he is quick. If he could run 10.26 at a younger age, it means he has talent. Good thing about Amiya is that he doesn't have too much weight," said Ariyo.
 
 Speaking of goals, the coach said, "The short-term goal was the   trials but my main goal is the Asian Games and then the 2020 Olympics."
 
 Besides Mallick, Ariyo is happy with the talent that he has seen so far in India and is optimistic about the country's future in athletics. During his stay, he has also held seminars for local coaches and has talked to them about how to develop the system and move forward.
 
 He has even seen   train and believes there is a lot of scope for improvement.
 
 "Dutee is very talented but a lot mechanism behind her running is wrong. If that can be developed, she can be a world-class athlete," said Ariyo, who has earlier worked in Saudi Arabia, Oman, Cyprus, Finland and Turkey.
 
 Speaking of Bolt's retirement, the coach did not sound disheartened. He is confident that it will not be long before someone else fills his shoes.
 
