Madurai: For 50-year-old V Shanmugasundram, a road accident in the early 90s which killed three of his family members was a life changing moment. His sister, brother-in-law and their daughter were killed and this made him realise the temporary nature of humans on earth. It was then he decided to dedicate his life to the welfare of the society and fellow human beings.

 While people in social service usually stick to a particular area, Shanmugasundram did not restrict himself. From helping underprivileged students to continue their studies, arranging for blood during emergency situations, sensitising people of road traffic, contributing to the green cover in the city, helping destitute and general public during natural calamities like Chennai floods, he reaches out to the needy. The resident of Pandian Nagar in Tinunagar has been serving the society for 25 years and says the only force driving him is self-contentment.
 
 He got started in the 90s when he used to gather the children in his locality, arrange an auto rickshaw and take them to polio vaccination camps, as the awareness on the deadly disease was very less. “Both my brothers were differently abled and I have seen their sufferings since my childhood. So, I used to spend a part of my little earnings whenever there was a drive,” he said.
 
 His job as the senior manager of public relations with Hi-Tech Arai Company in the city, has earned him many contacts. He has been serving as the point of contact between the needy and those who want to help others. “Many people are willing to help, but due to lack of time they are not able to do it themselves. Whenever I approach them, they are ready to offer help. Otherwise, being a salaried man, I can spend only a limited amount from my pocket,” says Shanmugasundaram.
 
 His service to the society for such a long time would not have been possible without the help of his family, especially his wife S Rajarajeshwari. “My company too provides the space I need for social work. Whenever there is an emergency to attend to, permission was always granted,” he said.
 
 Every New Year people take new sets of resolutions, but for Shanmugasundaram the resolution has been the same every year- to increase green cover. He gives away 1,000 saplings each year and also plants several. He makes sure that they are well maintained till they are grown to a level when they can survive on their own.
 
 He has received several awards from various organisations. Among them an award for social service from Madurai district collector on the occasion of Independence Day in 2016 and an award from then Tamil Nadu governor K Rosaiah in 2016 are notable.
 
 Shanmugasundram considers his contacts and people he has earned down the years as his biggest asset. Despite all this, he has never started an NGO or any organisation since he is wary of them. 
 
 
