BENGALURU: Every morning, much before the crack of dawn, regulars at   can find a large group of fitness enthusiasts in the lawns around Bandstand, with their yoga mats forming neat rows and columns.

 For the past two years,  , a yoga teacher, has been leading tens of people through a lesson comprising yoga, meditation, breathing techniques, stretching exercises and the power of positive thinking all in one. The classes, held for free daily from 5.45am to 7.15am, has 40-50 regular students who have made the morning lesson a part of their daily life.
 
 Preeti first started working in the villages of her home state   before moving to the city about two years ago. The 27-year-old advocates a philosophy of clean eating, clean thoughts and clean actions to improve the quality of one’s life.
 
 She pointed out that it is important to work on oneself before anything. “When I first started exploring this aspect of wellness, I was a wreck myself. I was overweight, my skin was suffering and had to deal with a whole range of other issues. Slowly, I was able to peel off the layers of doubt, fear, depression and disillusionment and start working on myself. More than being physically sick, I find that most of the students who come for classes are seeking mental peace and balance,” she said, adding that people are busy finding external solutions to their problems when they could all be solved by improving their lifestyle.
 
 Anil Yadav, father of the youngest member of the class, 10-year-old Bhagat, said his son has undergone a sea change ever since he started attending the classes six months ago. “He comes for this class every day without objecting and then goes to school. He used to have severe asthma, but regular breathing exercises have improved his health. He has more concentration and his attitude has become more positive,” said Anil.
 
 Raj Goklaney, 76, said the classes have helped him regain control over his body. “Two years ago, I was very ill at ease and constantly felt sluggish. I always had low energy, but now I feel much younger. I was on medication for my blood pressure but things have improved,” he said.
 
 Strict regimen
 
 Preeti has a degree in physiotherapy and leads a strict lifestyle herself. She wakes up at 2.45am every day before the Cubbon Park session, after which she takes scheduled classes for the rest of the day. She said 80% of her diet comprises raw food, and that meditation has taught her to be more positive.
 
