Chennai: Bengaluru-based myGate, which offers mobile-based security management solutions for gated premises, on Thursday announced that it has raised Rs 16 crore (about $2.5 million) in its first round of funding, led by Prime Venture Partners.

 Founded in 2016 by Vijay Arisetty, Abhishek Kumar, Shreyans Daga and Vivaik Bhardwaj, the startup offers a mobile-app-based system for security guards and residents, with a fallback to a regular voice call for non-smartphone users.
 
 With this system, all visitor entries and exits are logged digitally, with visibility and control of the resident. myGate also offers several advanced capabilities such as e-intercom (automatic visitor authentication), kids safety alerts, staff attendance, infrastructure-free vehicle management, touchless resident identification, clubhouse access management, management reporting, and visitor overstay alerts.
 
 myGate’s two-day onboarding process combined with a pay-as-you-go (SaaS) commercial model has enabled it to be rapidly deployed at several hundred gated communities within one year of its launch. Some of these include properties of builders like Sobha, Prestige, Puravankara, Rohan, Lodha, Salarpuria, Mantri and Adarsh. 
 
 While myGate’s primary focus is on residential communities, the technology and the solutions are already being piloted at other gated premises, notably office buildings, schools and factories. Since its launch, myGate has validated 24 million visits through their mobile app across 1,00,000 homes.
 
 “Security for gated-premises is a multi-billion dollar market that is fundamentally underserved by often obsolete legacy providers and solutions. We spent several months as security guards to understand their pain-points. For them, our apps don’t require knowledge of any language because we simply use numbers. For residents, the app gives them the ease of knowing and giving access to visitors including housemaids, cab drivers and delivery persons,” said Arisetty.
 
 The company will use the funds to invest in technology and scale to 2 million homes across the top-7 cities within the next two years. Arisetty adds that the top-5 security companies in Bengaluru are already working with them besides several builders who partner with myGate.
 
 Sanjay Swamy, managing partner, Prime Venture Partners said,” We first experienced myGate as consumers and loved the product experience. myGate is addressing a huge market opportunity. This funding will help them further expand their thought-leadership and market-leadership.”
 
 
