Missing out on the Glasgow   in 2014 after becoming the first Indian to enter the final in   was too much for Virdhawal Khade to digest. The then 22-year-old also missed the Asian Games that year as he was busy with the parliamentary and assembly elections as a government servant. 

 
 
 
 
 
 Before long, the Kohlapur swimmer decided to take the plunge again. He realised that even at 26 he was still among the best in the country. The young tehsildar is now getting ready to have another crack at the CWG and Asiad, resuming from where he left off in 2010. Khade, who has entered in men’s 50m butterfly and freestyle, will begin his campaign in   on April 5.
 
 
 
 
 It was some unfinished business. In 2010, I got a 50m butterfly bronze at the Asian Games. And at that point I had decided that I want something better than just one bronze. Ideally, it should have happened in 2014. If I had kept training I would have won a silver or even a gold. But I’m much stronger now and it’s not too late. By this August, I should be in a good shape to win a couple of medals at the Asiad.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 What prompted me to leave swimming was that I was not selected for the 2012 Olympics. Four of us had made the ‘B’ qualification mark, but the federation used the quota system and sent somebody else. That was a difficult phase for me. At the same time, the opportunity from the Maharashtra government came through. It was a chance to secure my future against such uncertainties (of not getting selected in the Indian team).
 
 
 
 
 It was an eye-opener to understand how the government works. I was also part of the team that conducted the 2014 Lok Sabha and assembly elections. It was a learning experience but at the cost of my swimming career. The first three years I was posted as tehsildar tasked with removing encroachments in Borivali. There were threats from everywhere and it was tough to work. Then came a rural posting where there was no swimming pool in the whole district. I’m now posted as tehsildar for Sanjay Gandhi Niradhar Yojana. The work is to give pensions to those who live below poverty line. I have leave until CWG. But I keep going back to office to finish work.
 
 
 
 
 The CWG is among the toughest competitions in the world. The problem with CWG is that the host nation gets three entries and Great Britain participates as six or seven different countries. So there are eight or nine from Britain itself, three from Australia and two from South Africa. The density of top swimmers is too high. At the Asiad it's only two per country and it's much easier to get into the final. Once you do that it's "Naseeb ka khel hai". Specially in the sprint events. If you look at the top-20 rankings there will be 2-3 from Australia and 2-3 from England. But I still got into the finals in 2010 Delhi Games. The difference between me and the gold medal in 2010 was one second. I'm eight years older now and I feel physically much stronger. Also, in 2010 I used to swim the 100s and 200s. I was not specifically training for the 50. Now the training is specific and I think it will make a lot of difference. My focus will be the 50 freestyle and may be the 100 too.
 
 
 
 
 For this year, yes. It's been just six months into training but I'm happy that I have got into such good shape that I've been selected for the Commonwealth Games. It's a big positive which I can carry forward and make use of at the Asian Games.
 
 
 
 
 The Commonwealth Youth Games in Pune where I won three gold and two silver. It was very special as it was in front of my people. Among those who competed in that Games were Australian Ryan Napolean, Chad le Clos (a four time Olympic medallist who will also be there at Gold Coast).
 
 
 
 
 It has been 13 years since I started training with him. I've learned a lot from him. Now I can even get into coaching. I think Nihar sir is very flexible. He thinks out of the box. We got into specific CWG training only a month back but I'm happy with the way we have progressed.
 
 
 
 
 Lovlina Borgohain (69KG), L Sarita Devi (60KG), MC Mary Kom (45-48KG), Pinki Rani (51KG)
 
 
