BATHINDA: The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) and   (AAP) have alleged that leaders of the ruling   were aiding rogue elements, who were extorting money from transporters engaged in the civil works at the Guru Gobind Singh refinery, also known as Hindustan Petroleum-Mittal Energy Limited ( ) refinery, at Phulokhari village in Bathinda district.

 President of SAD Sukhbir Badal on Thursday visited the refinery and asked the state government to rein in political leaders to save the image of  , which may force the industry to move out of the state. He also accused a relative of finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal of making money through henchmen.
 
 Talwandi Sabo AAP MLA Baljinder Kaur, along with party members, submitted a memorandum to Bathinda DC, asking him to stop the henchmen of politicians from extorting money or they would not hesitate in staging a protest. Last week some musclemen had pitched tents on the way to refinery and were accused of extracting money from transporters taking sand and gravel inside for ongoing civil works. A company engaged in the civil works had written to the refinery officials to rein in the persons engaged in illegal collection from transporters due to which the supply of sand was being affected.
 
 The illegal collection, as per contractors, had stopped for the last three days but they fear it might start any time. The HMEL management has decided to set up a new petrochemical project of Rs 22,000 crore in the refinery complex spanning over 2,000 acres.
 
 Later, Sukhbir held a meeting with the refinery officials and asked them about the situation and how much construction work was affected due to stoppage of supply of material for a few days. Later, he told newspersons, “The then chief minister, Parkash Singh Badal, had motivated HPCL and L N Mittal to set up the refinery. We will not allow to spoil the atmosphere as we don’t want the image of Punjab to be tarnished in the eyes of investors. We will take up matter with the CM and ask his party leaders not to create hurdles and allow the refinery to function smoothly or our party will hold protest.”
 
 Baljinder said, “I have proof of henchmen of certain ruling party leaders collecting goonda tax and handing it to the government. I will raise the matter in the state assembly.” She denied her role in illegal collections as SAD leaders had alleged and said her name had been raised to twist the facts. “Actually, I am the first who raised the issue,” she clarified.
 
 Meanwhile, Manpreet has asked SAD and AAP not to play politics over the issue. He said, “It is untrue that ruling party leaders are involved in collection of any illegal tax. The government is committed to providing a level-playing field and will look into the matter.” 
 
 
