About this time last year, we saw   gaining momentum across the state. The youth took the protest route to urge the SC to revoke the ban on the sport. And the involvement of student community was by and far the largest in when compared to any other protests in the recent past. Some even bunked classes and joined the protest, and   from the   was one among them. So intense was his involvement then, that to commemorate it, he decided to the movement by making a life-size   of a kangayam bull. 
After almost three months of work, he is now giving final touches to the sculpture before it will be displayed on college campus, closer to the first anniversary of the movement. “I am from a panchayat town called Mamsapuram in Virudhunagar. Our place is surrounded by hills and forests and therefore, I have always been fascinated by animals. So, I took to studying animal anatomy as part of sculpting. It’s only for college that I have come to Chennai. But never did I think about a sculpture like this till I joined the pro-jallikattu movement last year. It kind of ignited a spark in me to document the pro-jallikattu movement,” shares Sundar. Though he wanted to finish making the sculpture soon after the protest last year, he couldn’t. “It’s only by October that I actually started the production. But I got started with the pre-production work like studying the animal, photographing it and taking its measurements much earlier. In fact, I travelled to Senaapathy Kangayam Cattle Research Foundation in Kuttappalayam to study more about the kangayam bull, which is said to be the best breed for jallikattu. It gave me a lot of insight on how the bulls are reared, why   is important, etc. I even photographed the bulls for my work. But couldn’t take measurements there as the bull keepers were not available there then. Later, I also visited Velliangiri Gaushala in Coimbatore. There, I took measurements of the bulls. Though they’ve mixed breeds there, measurements are more or less the same. But I couldn’t proceed immediately because of several limitations, including financial difficulties.” 
 But he wasn’t ready to give up on what he wanted to make and therefore, decided to do this sculpture as part of his final-year project. “So, I started the work again in early October. Production started with welding, on which I had to do the clay modelling. It’s really tough to work on clay. It starts drying up and therefore, has to be kept wet. Thrice, some parts of it fell off and I had to rework. After clay modelling, I even finished the mould, using fibre. Now, what’s left is only fibre casting which I should be able to complete in the next few days,” he says. He adds, “I wanted to get permission to put it up on the Marina as it was on the beach that the main protest happened last year. But with the current political situation, that looks like a distant dream. For now, we will display it somewhere within the campus.”
 
