NEW DELHI: If any trader feels that the   of his shop was unjustified and done arbitrarily, then he can apply for relief.   ( ) has planned to help such traders who have documents to prove that their commercial establishment was sealed wrongly.

 SDMC standing committee chairman Bhupendra Gupta on Thursday met members of the SC-appointed monitoring committee and made an appeal to them to de-seal the properties whose owners claim to have all the relevant documents to certify that they have already paid conversion charges.
 
 Non-payment of conversion charges is one of the main reasons behind the sealing of over 600 properties in different parts of the city. Some traders, however, claim that they have already paid conversion charges.
 
 “Such traders can approach the deputy commissioner of the zones in which their commercial establishments are located and submit the documents. The officials will pursue the issue and ensure that the properties get de-sealed,” Gupta said.
 
 Rajendra Mallik, president of Defence Colony   Association, said that many shopkeepers objected to the sealing of their premises because they have paid all the charges and followed all the civic norms.
 
 “Why will the traders bother to pay different charges and follow the norms if the shops are sealed blindly? Even those who have abided by the law have been harassed,” said Brijesh Goyal, national convener of chamber of trade and industry.
 
 A trader from Defence Colony market said that the officials did not check any documents when they came for sealing. “At least seven commercial establishments that have paid conversion charges were sealed,” he claimed.
 
 A few traders also claimed that they were not allowed to take out perishable items from the shops before they were sealed. SDMC has requested the monitoring committee to temporarily de-seal such properties so that the traders can salvage the perishable goods. “We have also requested the monitoring committee to provide temporary relief to banquet halls where marriages are scheduled to take place,” said Gupta.
 
 
