BHUBANESWAR:   were at the receiving end of criticisms on Tuesday following the suicide of the 14-year-old girl, who in October had accused four unidentified security personnel of raping her in   district. Though police citing her medical report had ruled out rape, they continue to remain tight-lipped as to why she would level such a serious allegation.

 "We suspected the fairness of police probe from the very beginning. Assuming that she was not raped, why would she make such a serious allegation? How would have she benefitted by making such false charges? Why did she specifically point fingers at security personnel? Such unanswered questions made us believe that police hushed up the case," said Daliya  , a resident of the deceased's village.
 
 Some villagers said there must have been some truth in the girl's allegations. "We cannot believe that nothing had happened on October 10, the day she lodged the rape complaint. Something must have happened that day. Otherwise she would not have made such an allegation," asked  , another villager. Kadami said police should bring out the truth instead of ruling out rape.
 
 Police said they landed in a catch-22 situation after getting her medical report. "We are still at a loss as to why she alleged that she was raped. Medical report and her statement did not corroborate. Moreover, there was no movement of any security personnel, engaged in anti-Maoist operations, in the area where the crime took place on October 10," said a police officer.
 
 Though not a single police officer is willing to be quoted when asked about the probe outcome, sources said the police had zeroed in on a local minor boy who was last seen with her on October 10. "Our investigation indicated that she was returning with one of her friends on a motorcycle from a nearby market. The bike slipped and they fell. We have some witnesses, who saw them," another officer said.
 
 "We questioned the minor boy too. He told us that she walked towards home after their bike slipped. But our problem did not end there as the girl continued to claim that she was raped by four persons. The boy's statement holds little meaning for us," the officer said. Police said they detained four suspects and subjected them to lie-detection test. But the effort did not yield any result.
 
