NEW DELHI: Moments after India's U-19 team won the World Cup in New Zealand last Saturday, the Indian cricket board ( ), under the supervision of the Supreme Court-appointed Committee of Administrators (CoA), declared payouts for the support staff and the players. Interestingly, there was no reward for the three-member junior selection committee, led by former India fast bowler  .

 
 
 
 
 TOI has learnt that one of the reasons for the omission could be Prasad's heated discussion with BCCI's acting secretary   over the non-selection of leg-spinner   in the U-19 World Cup squad. Choudhary is the covenor of selectors.
 
 It is learnt that  , coach of the U-19 team, had asked for Chahar but the selectors didn't get their way as the leg-spinner from Rajasthan could have only been accommodated in the place of Jharkhand's left-arm spinner Anukul Roy. Incidentally, Choudhary too is from Jharkhand. TOI tried to get in touch with Choudhary but he was unavailable for a comment. Interestingly, Chahar has now received an IPL contract worth Rs 1.90 crore after   won a bidding war with  .
 
 
 
 
 "Chahar was particularly impressive in the U-19 tour of England last year. Anukul also was a steady performer but Chahar had performed really well. Dravid wanted a wrist spinner in New Zealand where the conditions are similar. Instead, he got three left-arm spinners," a top BCCI official told TOI.
 
 BCCI gave away Rs 15 lakh each to the senior men's and women's selection committees after the two teams finished runners-up in the   Champions Trophy and ICC Women's World Cup last year. Prasad led the same junior selection committee, also comprising Rakesh Parikh and Gyanendra Pandey, when the U-19 team finished runners-up in the last edition of the World Cup in 2016.
 
 BCCI acting president CK Khanna had written to the CoA and the other office-bearers on the need to reward junior selectors too. "There is no plan to reward the junior selectors right now. Dravid was brought in to strengthen the supply lines of Indian cricket at the expense of his lucrative IPL contracts and he has delivered. That's why he has been rewarded so heavily," the official said. "Currently the selectors are out of contract since the BCCI AGM has not happened. But they are paid for their services."
 
 Anukul was picked for the U-19   in Kuala Lumpur but was not given a single game there. Interestingly, Prasad had also applied for the post of BCCI's general manager (cricket ops) after the late MV Sridhar vacated the post last October. "Prasad was the front runner for a long time with his qualifications and of experience of working with U-19s and senior team. The process was revisited, Saba Karim was handed the role," the source said.
 
