Kolkata: Mamata Banerjee hit out at the Narendra Modi government on   Subhas Chandra Bose’s birthday on Tuesday over its silence on the state’s request to declare Netaji and Swami Vivekananda’s birthdays as national holidays.

 “Netaji didn’t get the political honour he deserved. His birthday and that of Swami Vivekanada haven’t been declared national holidays yet,” the Bengal chief minister said. “It is hard to expect anything from those (Centre) who couldn’t do this as a mark of respect for the national hero,” she added at a government programme here.
 
 Governor Keshari Nath Tripathi confirmed the state had already written to the Centre seeking a national holiday on Netaji’s birthday. “The state has written to the Centre making the request. It would be a good gesture if the Centre keeps the request,” he said while coming out of a programme held at Netaji Bhawan on Elgin Road. 
 
 PM Narendra Modi, now in Davos, paid tribute to Netaji on Twitter. “The valour of Netaji makes every Indian proud. We bow to this great personality on his Jayanti.” 
 
 The government is yet to release all classified Netaji files that it had started releasing. A reply from the home ministry to an RTI application from a Kolkata-based NGO in June 2017 had drawn flak from Bengal. The MHA had said in response Netaji died in a plane crash in 1945. 
 
 The CM also stoked Netaji’s “disappearance” controversy, saying it was a shame that the last days of the national hero remained shrouded in mystery. “It’s a shame that our countrymen couldn’t get to know where Netaji went years after he left Bengal, and what happened to him. Let the government make a time-bound inquiry to throw light on his last days,” she said.
 
 Three commissions of inquiry — Shah Nawaz Committee, Khosla Commission and Justice Mukherjee Commission — had made conflicting observations on Netaji’s alleged death in the Taihoku plane crash in 1945. 
 
 The UPA government had fuelled the controversy further by not tabling the Justice Mukherjee Commission’s report in Parliament. Legends keep spreading about Netaji’s presence after 1945, mainly based on three theories — those revolving around Shoulmari Sadhu and Gumnami Baba, and the third regarding Netaji’s presence in Russia after the plane crash.
 
 The CM paid glowing tributes to Netaji for raising Indian National Army and conceiving the Planning Commission before Independence. “Netaji recruited for his INA across caste, creed and religion. He also thought about the running of the country post-Independence,” she said.
 
 With Netaji dominating hearts in Bengal, political parties didn’t want to miss out on his birthday. CPM state secretary Surjya Kanta Mishra led a Left rally in the city while BJP youths organised a motorbike rally raising Vande Mataram and ‘Bharat Mata ki Jai’ slogans.
 
 
