The previous episode of   started with the 'Game Of Thrones' immunity task. While   was sitting on the throne, he got nominated. To save him, Bigg Boss asked Usha to dress like Anil Thatte and take a ramp walk with him. Usha got ready to do the task. Usha and Anil then took a ramp walk.

 Pushkar nominated Smita for the immunity task. Bigg Boss asked the latter to convince Aastad to go bald. Aastad did so, which made Smita safe.
 
 Bigg Boss asked Aastad to convince Smita for getting nominated for a certain time period. But Aastad could not convince her and so his nomination continued.
 
  is currently staying in the garden area as a punishment. So when Aastad nominated Rutuja for the immunity task, she was asked to convince Jui for staying in the garden area instead of Resham. But Rutuja instead of convincing Jui gave up the task. For the same, she was punished by Bigg Boss. She was nominated and was asked to stay in the garden area for one night. Bigg Boss then declared that the task had ended for the day.
 
 Next day,   was the first to receive Bigg Boss’ call. He was nominated and given the task to convince Pushkar to do all her work including feeding her, washing her clothes, etc. Pushkar did it all and that made Sai safe from the nominations.
 
 Sai further nominated Resham for the task. Bigg Boss asked Resham to convince   to keep quiet for certain amount of time. But Megha did not listen to Resham. Instead, she said she would have nominated Resham if she was given a chance.
 
 Resham then nominated Megha. So Bigg Boss asked the latter to convince Sai for cutting 2 of her special things with scissors. Those special things were Sai’s toy and her photo with her dog. Sai completed the task for Megha, saving her from the nominations.
 
 Megha then nominated Sushant for the immunity task. Sushant was asked to convince Megha to colour her hair into blue or green. But Sushant did not like the task, so he convinced Megha not to do it. Hence, Sushant’s nomination continued.
 
 Sushant further nominated Anil. Bigg Boss asked Anil to convince Usha for taking his nomination on her. But she refused to do so. So, even Anil got nominated for the elimination round.
 
 Anil then nominated Usha for the task. The latter was asked to convince Anil to keep all his jewellery in the storeroom. But even Anil refused to save Usha. 
 
 She further nominated Bhushan for getting the immunity. Bigg Boss asked Bhushan to convince Jui for transferring her captaincy to Bhushan along with getting nominated for the upcoming week. Jui did so making Bhushan safe from the eliminations. But Jui got nominated and the task came to an end.
 
 So in the end, Bigg Boss declared the names of all the nominated contestants. Those were Aastad, Anil, Jui, Rutuja, Sushant and Usha.
 
 Bigg Boss then gave a surprise to some of the best players in the house. Sushant, Sai, Pushkar, and Anil were given the family photographs, which made them teary-eyed.
 
