NOIDA: Police have finally spotted BHEL deputy GM Amit   in a CCTV footage from the Okhla Bird Sanctuary metro station that shows him getting out of the station at 7.31 pm, though the case still awaits a breakthrough even after a week.

 The CCTV footage, accessed by TOI, shows Pandey (41) wearing a white shirt and carrying a backpack.
 
 As the time of his death has been cited by police between 8.30 pm and 9 pm, it is being assumed that he had been walking from the metro station to his flat in Sapphire Tower II housing society in Sector 104. 
 
 The time taken in walking from the metro station to Sector 105, where Pandey’s body was found, is less than two hours.
 
 Amit had last spoken to his sister at 8.27 pm when he told her that he would be reaching home in 15 minutes. His body was recovered at a distance of around 200 metres from the society.
 
 Police on Sunday recovered five more credit and debit cards from his flat whose details have been shared with the respective banks. 
 
 “They too have shown no transaction so far as per information from the banks,” a police officer said.
 
 Police have also not been able to track his mobile phone, which has led them to believe that it was not being used by anyone. “The IMEI number can be used to track a phone which is being used after the theft. However, it is not being used as deduced from the investigation so far,” said SP (City) Arun Kumar.
 
 Police had failed to cordon-off the crime spot immediately after the body was recovered by a friend of Amit’s brother Sumit Pandey, following which they seized the body and his belongings from the spot.
 
 Cops have recorded the statement of his brother-in-law, but is yet to send a team to Varanasi where the rest of his family members are staying. The family is not expected to return to Noida before next month.
 
 “We are contemplating sending a team in a few days to assess the situation there,” the SP (City) said.
 
 “So far, police are in touch with the family members on phone. We are also waiting for some development in the case as it has completed a week on Tuesday,” Amit’s brother-in-law   said.
 
 
