ALLAHABAD:   pulled up the UP government over the   rape case on Thursday and asked the state advocate general why BJP   Kuldeep Singh Sengar, who has been named by the survivor, was not arrested yet. 

 The court also pulled up the government over the delay in filing the FIR in the rape case. Reacting to a letter written by an advocate, which was suo motu converted into a PIL, the HC reserved its verdict for Friday.
 
 "Police are not ready to register FIR of a minor rape victim. In spite of SIT report, you are repeating that we can only take action after further investigation. If this is the conduct of the police in state, whom will a victim approach to register a complaint? If this is the stand you are repeatedly taking then we will be forced to observe in our order that law and order has collapsed in the state," the court said.
 
 The court made these observations earlier on Thursday, hours before the FIR in the rape case was filed.
 
 Advocate general   informed HC that on August 17, 2017, an application was sent to the chief minister's office in which allegations of rape were made against the MLA. The application was forwarded to the concerned officers in Unnao district to take appropriate action.
 
 When the court asked the advocate general whether the government proposed to arrest Sengar for the rape charge, Singh replied that he was not in a position to make any statement in this regard. 
 
 Singh added that police would proceed in accordance with law, and only after recording statement of the complainant and witnesses, any step would be taken.
 
 The court referred to the suspension of police, jail and medical officers following the death of the survivor's father in judicial custody and observed that all were "hand and glove with the accused to save them". "You acted against those officers, but for arresting the rape accused you need to do further investigation?" the court said.
 
 In his letter to HC, senior advocate Gopal Swaroop Chaturvedi had demanded a court-monitored investigation into the rape case and also into the death of the survivor's father in judicial custody.
 
 
