NOIDA: Four residents and security guards deployed at a high-rise society in   have been booked for allegedly thrashing a dog to death. 

 Police lodged a case after a complaint was filed by People For Animals activist Pragati Khanna, a resident of Mayur Vihar.
 
 Khanna said that the Supertech Capetown residents and security guards mercilessly thrashed a recently-sterilised dog to death. 
 
 “We received information and rushed to the spot on Friday evening. We took the dog to a veterinary hospital. The examination revealed that it had received multiple fractures in the spine and died,” Khanna said.
 
 A post-mortem was also conducted and the report showed the death was caused due to internal bleeding through visceral organs. The death was caused around 12-hours before the canine was taken to the hospital. 
 
 Khanna said that the brutal beating was against the Prevention of Cruelty to Animal Act and also it was a criminal offence. The complainant named four residents – Aditya Khanna, Shyam Shankar, Anirudh Tiwari, and Nishant Dubey, and some security guards in the FIR.
 
 Police said primary investigation revealed that the society residents were angry as a stray dog had attacked a child last week. 
 
 Pankaj Pant, SHO Sector 39 police station, said that a case under Prevention of Cruelty to Animals Act 1960 and Section 429 (mischief by killing/maiming cattle) and Section 12 –B (criminal conspiracy) of IPC has been registered against the accused. 
 
 “We are investigating the case and will take necessary actions,” he said.
 
 Aditya Khanna, one of the accused named in the complaint, said he had no connection with the case and wondered why he was named in the complaint. 
 
 “I am a dog lover. I do not know who killed the dog. I am going to visit police station to enquire about the matter,” he said. 
 
 He said that a few days ago a dog had attacked a child, who lived in the same tower. 
 
 “The social residents had called a meeting and submitted an application to the Noida Authority for sterilisation of stray dogs. I had just signed the application as a resident. I have no role in this case,” he said.
 
