NEW DELHI: Punjab National Bank reported record quarterly loss of Rs 13,417 crore in January-March as the fraud by high-profile diamond merchants   and   forced it to set aside more funds in addition to the pressure from non-performing assets (NPAs), which also prompted the state-owned bank to make provisions for potential losses.

 
 The quarterly loss is more than the loss of Rs 12,283 crore incurred by   during 2017-18 and beats the bank's own record quarterly loss of over Rs 5,000 crore during January-March 2016. The bank's provisions for bad debt and fraud shot up nearly five times from Rs 4,467 crore in the quarter ended March 2017 to over Rs 20,000 crore during the last quarter, a bulk of which was due to NPAs.
 
  
  
 In any case, finances were under pressure with lower income, while expenses shot up. The management of PNB, the country's second largest public sector lender, opted against quarterly press conference to announce results and made the disclosure to stock exchanges. Thanks to a reprieve from RBI, the bank made provisions of Rs 7,178 crore for   during the March quarter, with an equal amount to be set aside during the first three quarters of the current financial year. Although the blow from the estimated at Rs 14,357 crore has been softened, the impact will be felt during the first nine months of 2018-19.
 
 The stress in the corporate sector in addition to new RBI norms pushed up the bank's gross NPAs to over 18% of its advances at the end of March, from a little over 12% a year ago. PNB stocks fell 3.8% on Tuesday to close at Rs 86 on the BSE.
 
 The high provisions meant that PNB's capital adequacy ratio, especially tier-I capital, has come under pressure, requiring urgent capital infusion. With the government reluctant to keep pumping in money into state-run banks, the Delhi-headquartered lender is banking on sale of non-core assets to shore up its capital base. PNB is also banking on a 4% stake sale in life insurance company  , apart from divestment of a part of its stake in PNB Gilts, the primary dealer that was once a cash cow.
 
 "We will wait till the end of the current quarter and see if we need to raise fresh equity," said a bank executive.
 
 The latest quarterly loss by PNB comes when several banks are reporting weak numbers due to higher amount of funds being set aside for possible losses on account on NPAs. RBI is insisting on higher provisions to cushion against any losses in future.
 
