BENGALURU: At a time when civic authorities are blamed for using poll duty as an excuse to shirk responsibility, a senior   with Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike ( ) showed alacrity in getting a garbage black spot removed from  .

 Residents of HM Tambourine apartments in Jaraganahalli ward had been putting up with the menace of garbage being dumped near their homes. However, the road which was being littered happened to fall under the neighbouring ward of  . Their pleas to the local corporator and MLA yielded no results. However, the proactive steps taken by health inspector  , after TOI reached out to him on Thursday, saw at least half the stretch cleaned within a day. 
 
 The road, which had become a dumping ground for plastic and household waste, construction debris and meat waste from nearby shops, was cleaned by pourakarmikas on Friday with Shivalingaiah keeping watch. A green net was fixed along the roadside with a banner prohibiting miscreants from dumping waste.
 
 According to the Shivalingaiah, senior health inspector (Yelachenahalli), no space has been demarcated for secondary segregation of garbage and a dry waste collection centre in his ward. He has requested the residents to pitch in with funds to clean the rest of the road, something they are open to.
 
 “I ensured that the road was cleaned every night. Every morning it would be spotless but people would dump trash in the dead of night. Some waste also gets left behind while being transferred from autos to trucks. Secondary segregation will happen elsewhere. In the meantime, we have asked for a designated dry waste collection centre in our ward,” he said.
 
 Residents said a plot near the road was also being used for burning garbage, tyres and other illegal activities. “In this blistering heat, we are not even able to open our doors or windows due to the foul smell. The spot is swarming with swarming with mosquitoes and flies,” said Geetha, a resident of HM Tambourine.
 
 BM Shobha, corporator of Jaraganahalli ward, said all efforts to contact Yelachenahalli ward officials in the past had gone in vain. “They said they had no other space and washed their hands of. Considering that no one from the other ward had raised the issue, officials hadn’t bothered to take action,” she said. 
 
 -Priya Bhat and Jennifer Hanna
 
