CHANDIGARH: Upset regarding the criticism on the frequent closure of the runway leading to cancellation of flights, the local IAF authorities on Wednesday asserted that it is the military that is suffering more from such closures than those travelling to a tourist station for excursion.

 “Chandigarh is the biggest air logistic base of the country, which maintains supply of food and other supports for troops deployed in Jammu and Kashmir, Siachen and Ladakh sectors for their subsistence in the hostile terrain. But it really hurts when people complain against IAF authorities for spoiling their trip to Dubai or other destinations. I would say the armed forces personnel are the most affected due to such closures,” Air Commodore S  , head of   station said on Wednesday.
 
 Srinivasan was clarifying the causes and factors behind frequent closure of runway.
 
 He further said around 29,000-tonne material is supplied every year by the IAF from Chandigarh to high altitude areas to ensure sustenance of troops. Around 10 to 15 sorties are taken daily from the Chandigarh airbase to supply this material, he added.
 
 The IAF officers also confirmed that on account of closure of  , the entire military operations are now carried out from the Ambala airbase.
 
 On a question regarding extension of watch hours during night, Air   said that they have target of completing the entire construction activities by August 2019.
 
 “On completion of project, if the civilian airport authorities would make adequate logistic arrangements to accommodate night flights, IAF have no problem in extending watch hours for the night operations,’ he added.
 
 
 
 According to IAF authorities, the runway repair and related work would cost the IAF around Rs 450 crore. It was further stated that the cost would have reduced to Rs 220 crore if the repair work was carried by complete shutting down of the airport for around one and half year.
 
 
 
 The AOC informed that the as soon as the re-surfacing of runway and installation of instrument landing system would complete by August 2019, the airport would be made operational round the clock for the flight operations. As of now, the commercial flights are permitted to fly in limited hours during daytime.
 
 
 
 The senior IAF officials claimed on Wednesday that they had conducted a survey of past 10-years and found that only during the month of December and January, the visibility at the airport comes down to 350 metres for around 3 hours only, thus CAT-II Instrument landing system, which helps landing the flights up to 350 metres visibility is sufficient for Chandigarh airport.
 
 They, however, claimed that if the airports authority of India (AAI) plans to install CAT-III (ILS), it would be a “win-win situation” for all.
 
 
 
 Once completed, the runway at Chandigarh airport would be third such runway in the country after Delhi and Mumbai airports. After the construction work, the total length of the runway would be extended from 9,000 feet to 12,400 feet in which 10400 feet would be actual working runway. The width of runway would be 150 feet with additional 7.5-metre-wide additional non-loading-surface on both side. The new runway would ensure landing of wide-bodied aircrafts at Chandigarh including Dreamliner.
 
 
