LUDHIANA: The union goverment may have declared its plans of transforming education system from blackboard to digital board, but lack of basic amenities in several government schools in the city and around depicts another story altogether. That the government schools do not even have basic infrastructure became apparent recently when several private school associations opposed the move of the   government to end the self-centre system. Different associations in Punjab are opposing it strongly, fearing their students would not get even the basic facilities of desks, washrooms, and clean water in government schools. Besides, commuting to distant examination centres would be another concern for the students. 

 The education department has decided to end the self-centre system this year, in which students of a school used to appear for exams in their own schools. Now, the department has decided to make government schools the centres for private schools in order to curb cheating during exams. However, the decision has not gone down well with different associations of private schools, and therefore, they are writing to the Punjab School Education Board ( ) and education minister  , besides approaching different MLAs and ministers to oppose the decision.
 
 The state general secretary of Recognized and Affiliated Schools’ Association (Rasa),  , said: “I appreciate the department’s efforts to curb cheating in exams. However, before changing examination centres, it should have talked to associations to know the problems at the ground level. The centres for private school students will be made in government schools, ignoring the fact that several schools do not have sufficient benches, separate washrooms for girls and boys, and clean drinking water facilities. We do not want our students to write exams sitting on mats. Today, I have written to the education minister and PSEB about the issue, asking them to either ensure proper facilities for students, or not to change their centres, otherwise the association will agitate against it.”
 
 The president of   (Punjab), Rajinder Sharma, said: “Arranging transportation for students will be such a difficult task, and asking them to reach the examination centres on their own will not be safe at all. The department should rethink the decision for the convenience of students.” 
 
 
