Madurai: The Madras high court Madurai bench on Wednesday gave four months to the Union government to decide the positive and negative aspects of locations identified by the Tamil Nadu government for establishing the   (AIIMS) in the state and file a report on June 15. 

 The court had earlier given a deadline on December 31 last year for locating the site and making it public on January 1, after it heard the petition filed by K K Ramesh. However, with the government failing to do so, the petitioner filed a contempt case before the high court seeking action against the secretaries of the health departments of the Union and state governments. 
 
 When the contempt plea came up for hearing before the division bench headed by justice M Sathyanarayanan on Wednesday, the special government pleader of the state government, A K Baskara Pandian, told the court that the Centre wanted the state health department to identify three or four possible locations for AIIMS. Approximately 200 acres of land was required to set up an AIIMS-type superspeciality hospital-cum-teaching institution. The location should have road connectivity as well as water and electricity facilities. 
 
 Accordingly, the department selected   in Erode district,   in Kancheepuram district,   in Madurai district,   in Thanjavur district and Pudukottai town in Pudukottai district. The central team had also inspected those five places from April 22 to 25 in 2015. Subsequent to the inspection, the Union government sought many details on the places at intervals and the state’s health department had furnished them too. Thus it was high time that the Union government decided about the location, the counsel said. 
 
 The petitioner told the court that the Union government was intentionally delaying the setting up of AIIMS in Tamil Nadu. The Union government counsel sought time to file a detailed report in this regard. Following this, the bench directed the Centre to decide the pros and cons of the locations the state government had identified before June 14 and file a report on June 15 and adjourned the case. 
 
 
