KOTA: A 75-year-old woman was on Friday night beaten up with sticks to death in   village under   police station of Bundi city. The woman was murdered over past enmity by rival group of the family whose one member the deceased old woman along with her husband and two sons had allegedly murdered in October last year and was released on bail a few days ago.

 Police have booked six members of the rival group including one woman under Section 302 of IPC and handed over the body to family members after post-mortem by medical board.
 
 According to SHO of Hindoli police station,  , the woman was identified as Puran Kour Sikh, a resident of Dagariya village, was found murdered at her home. The woman was severely beaten up with sticks to death with both the hands and feet fractured and fatal injuries on head, he said.
 
 The SHO said, the deceased woman along with her husband and two sons was accused of murdering a 70-year-old man   of the other rival group of the family on October 29 last year and she was released on bail a few days ago while the other three accused are still in judicial custody in jail, the SHO said.
 
 The SHO said, the deceased woman, after the released on bail, had reached her village home along with her daughter and son in law last evening to collect the household items from her home but she chose to stay the night there while the daughter and son in law returned to their home, he said.
 
 Police have booked six persons, including one woman identified as Kuljeet Singh, Avatar Singh, Mahendra Kour, Dalbeer Singh, Chandrapal Singh and   in this connection for murder under Section 302 of IPC, he said.
 
 All the six accused fled away from their home after the crime, he further said adding the efforts are underway to nab them and the police teams have been sent to possible locations.
 
 The body was handed over to the family members after postmortem by medical board today noon, the SHO added.
 
 The old woman was murdered out of revenge of the murder of Dilbagh (70) Singh as the dispute over land had already been sorted out between the two groups of the family, he added.
 
