AHMEDABAD: Onions are making   shed tears for the second consecutive year. Onion is selling for between Rs 3.50 and Rs 8 a kg at the Ahmedabad agriculture produce market committee (APMC), but is fetching Rs 20 to Rs 25 a kg in retail.

 
 At the  , the biggest market yard for onion trading in the state, the price is between Rs 6.5 and Rs 15 per kg. However, at APMCs far from Mahuva, the situation is much worse. For example, at Visavadar APMC, onion is selling at Rs 1.25 to Rs 2 a kg.
 
 Farmers are forced to give their produce to villagers for free. Gordhan Paghdal, the sarpanch of Kuba (Ravani) village in Visavadar, said, “On Thursday, Gordhan Dobariya, a farmer from the village announced that the onion crop in his field would be available for free. Many villagers went to his field and took as much as they could carry.” 
 
 The sarpanch said Dobariya was not even getting the cost of labour invested, which was around Rs 2 per kg. He thus decided to give it away for free. The Paghdal said several farmers in the village who were growing onions earlier have stopped doing so.
 
 Pratap Sardasiya, a farmer, says, “Apart from the sowing cost, we have to pay for labour to harvest it, which is around Rs 2 per kg. We also need gunny bags, which cost Rs 30 for a 50-kg bag. The farmer also has to take his crop to Mahuva, and pay Rs 4 per kg for transport. If the farmer gets Rs 6.25 per kg, he is incurring a loss.”
 
 Ghyanshyam Patel, chairman of   APMC, said, “Onions that can be stored for five or six months are selling at a premium and only poor quality onions, which are wet, are selling for cheap. Low-quality onion can’t be kept for more than 10 days.”
 
 Ramesh Dhameliya, a farmer from near Mahuva who has 30 bigahs of land, said he has stopped sowing onion because he doesn’t get a remunerative price. “We are not even getting Rs 5 per kg but retailers are selling the crop for more than Rs 30 per kg. The government should regulate the price and ensure that farmers get good prices,” he said.
 
 
