Director   Purushothaman’s Aruvi has been getting a lot of critical acclaim for its unique story and amazing screenplay. The director, who shot to fame with his debut film, spoke to us about the making of the film, society, future films and more.

 
 When we were shooting the film, we wanted everyone to like this film and we knew people would like the film. But I never expected the response that Aruvi has been getting. People messaged me on social media saying they watched the film six to seven times. Since the first day of the release, social media has been flooded with discussions on Aruvi. I never expected that to happen. I started getting messages from people in different countries. Even people who do not know Tamil started appreciating the film. I didn’t expect it to become such a huge hit.
 
 
 When I write a story, I don’t think of the genre, subject or even think about making a film out of it. I have no preconceptions while writing a story. Out of the many stories we write, only a few become films. I write stories about what people go through in daily life and my stories reflect the day-to-day happenings in people’s life. I wrote the story of Aruvi in 2013. It was a two-page thesis. I wanted to make a film that reflected the mindset of youngsters in all the countries. Everyone goes through boredom, frustration and they question themselves whether they fit in the society or not. I wanted to reflect all these thoughts and questions of youngsters. My story was about a person shunned by the society, but who still loved the the society. I also don’t think that the stigmas that we talk about actually exist. It’s just that we think they exist. We look at mentally challenged people with some perception, but when you talk to them, they open up a whole new world to you. These are all perspectives. I neither wanted my story to talk about the stigma nor did I want it to be a hard-hitting film.
 
 
 I don’t think Aruvi is a realistic film. It’s complete fiction. But, when you deliver a fiction, the audience should be able to relate to it and believe this could happen. So, we try not to add any commercial factor to the film. That’s what I did with Aruvi. To make realistic films, we have a long way to go and I don’t think I am anywhere close to that. In the recent times, we have a few socially conscious films getting released. People are intelligent and socially conscious because of social media. Like how item songs were a must once, these days, films with a good message have become a must.
 
 
 When I made Aruvi, I was looking at the commercial factor. Someone is willing to spend a lot of money on you, so you should repay them by making a commercially successful film. Cinema is a business; no one is making independent, arty films spending their own money. Everyone wants to make money using films. We even go to the extent of borrowing money at prime rates to make a film, so all the films are made commercially. I wanted the audience to be satisfied with my film. It’s like how a hotel owner wants his customers to be satisfied with the food he serves. I think Aruvi is a new-age masala film.It has action, humour, sentiments and everything else. I don’t subscribe to having songs with a number of dancers in the background while making a film. Similarly, I don’t believe in stereotypes — a thriller need not necessarily thrill the audience every second; a black comedy need not be made in a particular way. I don’t have any format while making a film. Aruvi is a mix of all genres and my subsequent films will also be 
 like this.
 
 
 We auditioned a lot of artistes. The process went on for six to seven months. We selected a few artistes and had a few screen tests done. Aditi’s test shoots were very interesting and she brought out all the minor nuances the character required. It came naturally to her and so, we cast her. She showed great dedication and worked only on this film for one-and-a-half years. She made all the physical and psychological transformations to suit the character. She didn’t want to become an actor or do well in the cine industry. She liked the story, so she wanted to act in it. She has great potential as an actress. She is a law graduate and she travels a lot. She will explore the actress in herself as she does more movies. She is a great observer and a sincere artiste who wants to give her 100 per cent in whatever she does.
 
 
 I already have two scripts ready and I am working on them. Both are people-oriented films and you will get an idea when the posters are released. They are not even remotely related to Aruvi. They are completely different subjects. I have not decided on the cast yet. When I was waiting for the release of Aruvi, I wrote both these scripts and now, pre-production work is going on. Casting will begin in March.
 
 
 I used to perform mimicry in school. I started writing from class VII. I also read a lot. When I was doing my Visual Communication degree at  , I worked with veteran director Balu Mahendra. After college, I worked with KS   for about four years. Aruvi happened after that. Actually, I didn’t want to do Aruvi as my first film. I had a different script and I had been working on it for over a year. Since it didn’t get started, I wanted to randomly write another script and this happened in 20 days. I gave my synopsis to a cinematographer and he forwarded it to producer SR Prabhu. After I narrated the story to them, they agreed to work on the film. All this happened in 2013. I worked with my classmates and friends for Aruvi. So,it was like working on a final-year project. It was an enthusiastic crew.
 
 
 In the television industry, all the shows we have are just templates. Each one is an adaptation of a western show. First, it gets introduced in Hindi. If the show becomes a hit in Hindi, we (the south Indian channels) implement it. That’s how majority of the TV shows are. This reality show template is there in all the countries — judging contestants and dramatising the show by adding emotions. We added those elements in the film and that’s why Aruvi has had a great response in international film festivals. In China, all the three festival screenings were housefull, because they have a similar show there. When we were in college, we were taught media ethics and human values. But when you get into the industry, we work in a high-pressure environment. We try to complete an interview within 10 minutes, have to give call sheets to different events and more. While working in such an environment, human values get compromised. When I noticed this was happening, I wanted to register it and that’s why I made the film. Other than that, I didn’t have anything personal against anyone and I didn’t even have any idea of doing a spoof of the show.
 
 
 I admire the works of Gillo Pontecorvo. He is an Italian filmmaker, who made films like The Battle Of Algiers and Kapo. He had gone all the way to Algeria and lived there for seven years to study about the history of the country to make a film. He is a people-oriented filmmaker. He has made extremely strong films. Jean-Luc Godard is another filmmaker who I admire a lot. Initially, I did not understand his films. Slowly, I started understanding his work. There are so many filmmakers like them. 
 
 
