ERODE:Passengers stranded at the   stand were in for a surprise on Friday when the local   asked them to hop on to a bus, which he drove all the way to   - a distance of 36km.

 Anthiyur MLA   of the   had come to the bus stand to assess the situation on the ground in the wake of the transport trade union strike. He found a group of people waiting for buses to Bhavani and Erode. When they told him that they had been waiting for more than two hours, Rajakrishnan asked the transport officials to arrange for a driver and conductor to take them to Bhavani, from where they could get buses to their destinations. But no driver was available.
 
 The MLA, who owned heavy vehicles, including a transport vehicle, and had a licence to drive such vehicles, offered to drive the bus. “My licence is valid until November 17, 2019,” said Rajakrishnan, later talking to TOI.
 
 After verifying the licence, the transport officials asked the MLA to take the bus on a test drive. They told him that he would be allowed to drive further only if they were satisfied. After he drove the bus for a few minutes, the transport officials agreed to let him drive it to Bhavani and back.
 
 
 
 
 The bus departed from the stand with 42 passengers at 3.05 pm.
 
 “I was really surprised to see the MLA in the driver’s seat,” said M  , a passenger, adding that it was good to see the legislator come forward to help the stranded passengers.
 
 P  , another passenger, said Rajakrishnan’s driving was as good as that of a regular driver. “I did not expect him to have such proficiency in driving,” hesaid. He added that none of the passengers in the bus appeared uneasy when the MLA was at the wheel.
 
 After dropping passengers at the Bhavani bus stand, Rajakrishnan asked a group of waiting passengers to board the bus and drove back to Anthiyur.
 
 Meanwhile, Anthiyur DMK union secretary   and hissupporters protested against the MLA’s gesture.
 
 They raised slogans against Rajakrishnan for a while and dispersed.
 
