The latest episode of   starts with   feeling bad as she is getting attracted towards Adi and decides to avoid meeting him. Adi gets Aaliya's call and she asks him about his whereabouts but Adi screams at her and tells her she should not care about him. 

 Adi hangs up the call without listening to Aaliya, who wanted to tell him that her father Mani is in search of him. 
 
 Mani reaches the parking area and sees Adi standing there. He starts beating Adi and Roshni sees from her window. She quickly runs down to help him. Roshni saves Adi from Mani and says that she will call the cops. Roshni then takes Adi to her room and tells him that she is feeling sorry that because of her Adi is hurt. 
 
 Adi tells Roshni that he hasn't done anything and still everyone is blaming him for getting attracted towards Roshni. Adi tries to kiss Roshni she tries to stop him. But Adi and Roshni get intimate with each other. 
 
 In another scene, Simmi creates drama at the Bhalla house and tells everyone that Kiran was the one who did a major fraud in Raman's name.   and   tell Simmi to stop as they will talk about this in the morning. 
 
 Simmi asks Ishita to apologize to her as well as Param for blaming them. Ruhi tries to stop them but Ishita tells she is ready to apologise. Ruhi and Raman try to stop her. Param reaches Bhalla house and Ishita asks him to forgive her. 
 
 Meanwhile, Aaliya is worried about Adi and tries to call him. 
 
 Bala and the Iyer family are at the police station trying to meet Kiran who is in the jail. The cops throw Bala out from the police station as he creates unnecessary drama and Shravan calls Ruhi. He tells her to call Adi as he is the one who can convince Bala to go back home.
 
 Kiran calls someone and lies to Bala saying that she is calling the lawyer. On the other hand, Raman and Ishita cannot believe that Kiran is behind this fraud and feels that she is being used by someone else. 
 
 Ishita and Raman both try to get Kiran out on bail but are not able to do so. Bala returns home with Adi and Mani informs Ishita and Raman about Roshni and Aditya's secret affair. Adi tells Raman and Ishita that he was with Roshni. 
 
 
