HYDERABAD:  , where President of Iran Dr Hassan Rouhani will address the Friday congregation on February 16, has been a symbol of communal harmony for four centuries. Started by a Shia ruler, the mosque was completed by a  . The contractor or chief mason, who personally supervised the mosque construction stone by stone, was a Hindu.

 Mecca Masjid is one of the few mosques in India where both Sunnis and Shias offer prayers. Though there are separate mosques for various sects among Muslims in Hyderabad, they all assemble in Mecca Masjid for the mandatory prayers five times a day. Most tourists visiting the mosque are Hindus.
 
 The work on Mecca Masjid began during 1616-17 CE and the foundation was laid by the Qutub Shahi ruler, Sultan Mohammad Qutub Shah VI. The Qutub Shahis were Shia but patronized all – Sunnis and Hindus. The mosque took several decades for completion and it was finally ready during the regime of Moghul emperor Aurangzeb in 1694 CE. The chief mason was   while the engineer was Faizullah Baig.
 
  
 
 City historian and religious scholar Allama Aijaz Farruq said, Aurangzeb did not show much interest in the mosque and this is evident from the small minarets.
 
 “Mecca Masjid is an imposing structure. Given its gigantic size, the minarets should have been quite tall. But the mosque has small minarets and they do not match with the surroundings,” the Allama said.
 
 Historian Abdul Majeed Siddiqui in his History of Golcunda (1956) writes that thousands worked on the mosque and a single niche (Mihrab), which has been carved out of a monolith, took five years for completion.
 
 French traveller Tavernier, who visited Golconda and Hyderabad during the Qutub Shahi period, refers to the mosque, which was under construction then, as a wonderful work of architecture and a marvellous edifice in the whole of Asia.
 
 “If this building were completed it would undisputedly be the grandest in all India and the   in the whole of Asia,” Tavernier wrote. Another French traveller Thevenot had also referred to the  
 
 
