GANDHINAGAR: The   Dam project has rightly been called the lifeline of  , but the state is taking a big risk by making itself totally dependent on the   and not developing other sources, as a contingency for unforeseen crises. Two consecutive bad monsoons would wreak havoc in state as 70% of its population and geographical area is now directly dependent on Narmada water. Seven of the state’s eight municipal corporations, (large cities) directly depend on Narmada water, apart from 160 municipalities and 8,000 villages where the Narmada is the single main source of water for all needs.

 
  
 
 Last year, Gujarat received reasonably good rains, however Madhya Pradesh, the catchment area of the SSP, had insufficient rain. Thus MP and Gujarat are facing a major water crisis. If there is a poor monsoon this year, there will be an unimaginable water crisis in the state and the state doesn’t have a Plan B. Eighty per cent of catchment area of the Tapi, from where Surat and its surrounding region gets its water, is in  , which also had insufficient rain last year.
 
 The state has water in the Narmada to last only till June-end at the maximum till July 15. Experts warn that the state is staring at a major crisis if monsoon is delayed or fails. If like last year, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra do not get enough rain, Gujarat will face major water supply crisis.
 
 The Sardar Sarovar Narmada dam and all other major sources will likely be exhausted by June 30 or July 15. The state will then have to use groundwater and less rain here could make the situation worse.
 
 B N Nawalavala, the chief minister’s advisor on water resources and former secretary in the ministry of water resources, said, “It is a fact that no one can deny that we have water only till July at the maximum. Though all forecasts predict normal rain, if there is a a drought or the monsoon is delayed, we have no other option groundwater use, which is also not possible everywhere, where the water table is already very deep, or the groundwater is not potable. The state government has decided to promote sea water desalination plants, but that will take time and the volume will be too little to meet our needs. Smaller plants can help in coastal areas. Considering the changing rain patterns, the state needs cut its dependence on the Narmada and rejuvenate local sources quickly. Over dependency on the Narmada is certainly risky in case of a prolonged drought.”
 
 Sagar Rabari, an farmer actvist and social worker, said, “The Narmada dam was planned for irrigation only. It has now been turned into a drinking water project, as the CAG also observed that the state government did not develop alternative sources. The Narmada is now an over-exploited source. Farmers don’t get Narmada water as the state has no other drinking water sources. Because of its massive corruption, the government has not focused on developing new resources. It is high time the state government ends this criminal negligence and works on long-term plans to ensure the water security of the state. ”
 
 
