LUCKNOW:  's successive electoral losses, including   and  , have made its allies in UP,   and Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party (SBSP), jittery. Both allies are now aiming to safeguard their political turfs and galvanise workers and supporters. 

 Apna Dal president Ashish Patel, husband of Union minister for state  , on Friday made a clarion call to party cadre to assemble in Bagulihai village, Kannauj, the birthplace of party founder Sone Lal Patel, on June 7.
 
  The party will hold another grand event in state capital on July 2 in its founder's remembrance.
 
 With these events Apna Dal wants to claim Sone Lal's legacy and send a strong message to party cadres that despite the tussle over poll symbol between Anupriya and her mother since 2014, it will continue to follow the ideals of Sone Lal. Apna Dal, being an OBC-dominated party, also wants to retain its hold on its vote bank and prevent any inroads from BSP and   (RLD) as Dr Sone Lal once fought his politics as protege of BSP founder Kanshi Ram.
 
 Besides, it also wants to breach the Samajwadi Party bastion Kannauj by consolidating the non-Yadav OBC vote bank which it fears has eroded in the wake of BJP's bypoll losses.
 
 Apna Dal also aims to start a stir demanding over 50% mandatory SC/OBC quota for DM and SSP posts in UP.
 
 With nine MLAs and huge vote bank in Purvanchal, Anupriya's party holds a lot of significance for BJP. In 2014, Prime Minister   had defeated AAP's Arvind Kejriwal by a margin of 3.37 lakh votes in Varanasi riding on votes from Sevapuri seat where Apna Dal has been winning by over 45,000-70,000 votes.
 
 SBSP, on the other hand, has made its intentions clear to continue raising voice on issues with party chief Om Prakash Rajbhar planning to launch a stir demanding reservation for Rajbhars in government jobs and absolute alcohol ban in the state. 
 
 "We have decided to launch a state wide stir on inclusion of denotified tribe (DT) sub-category in other backward classes (OBC) with 3% fixed quota in government jobs for Rajbhars and prohibition enforcement in UP. 30,000 women organised a rally in Ballia recently. My next massive protest will be in Kushinagar. In our state the same minister holds the two portfolios of excise and prohibition. We are working on one but not on the other," Rajbhar told TOI.
 
 He also insisted that he would not settle for less than four to five Lok Sabha seats in 2019. 
 
