PATNA: Governor-cum-chancellor   on Monday appointed vice-chancellors and pro-vice-chancellors of the three newly created universities in the state, paving the way for their full-fledged functioning from the new academic session (2018-19).

 According to a Raj Bhavan notification, Banaras Hindu University (BHU) commerce professor Gulab Chand Ram Jaiswal and NIT Patna electrical engineering professor   have been appointed   respectively of  , Patna. 
 
  chemistry professor and former Patna University pro-VC Ranjit Kumar Verma and Magadh University women’s studies department professor and former acting VC Kusum   were appointed VC and pro-VC respectively of Munger University, Munger. BHU professors Rajesh Singh and Prabhat Kumar Singh would be the VC and pro-VC respectively of Purnia University.
 
 The appointments have been made for a period of three years from the date of their joining on the recommendation of the duly constituted search committee after effective consultation with the state government. Chief minister Nitish Kumar had discussed the names with chancellor at Raj Bhavan on Friday.
 
 The state government has already announced the new universities’ academic innings from the next session (2018-19). To start with, Pataliputra University (to be carved out from the Magadh University) will function from MU’s present branch office at Kankarbagh in Patna, Purnia University (to be carved out from B N Mandal University, Madhepura) will start functioning from   building. Similarly, Munger University (to be carved out from Tilka Manjhi Bhagalpur University) is likely to start its operations from R D and D J College, Munger. 
 
 The state government has also created 243 posts of staff, 81 for each, for the new universities. The process of appointment of officers, including registrars, finance officers, examination controllers and development officers is also under progress.
 
 The decision to create the three universities was taken by the state government about a couple of years back with a view to minimize the workload on the existing universities and improving their functioning. As the territorial jurisdiction of these universities is spread over a very large area and the number of students had gone beyond manageable proportions, bifurcating the existing universities into smaller ones had become essential, said a senior official of the education department. 
 
 
