Mysuru: In what is likely to surprise   workers, fellow ticket aspirants and the opposition alike, the leadership of the saffron party is likely to field 76-year-old D   from   segment.

 It appears as though the party leadership is punting on the veteran Madegowda, although he has not been active in politics for nearly a decade, to wrest control of a segment that the party held for nearly twenty years (1994-2013). The late HS Shankarlingegowda won the elections from the segment on four occasions on a BJP ticket. In 2013, he joined the JD(S), and lost the seat to Vasu of the Congress.
 
 Sources in the BJP are of the opinion that the party lost the seat in the previous election owing to Shankarlingegowda’s decision to join the JD(S). Madegowda’s candidature could cause heartburn among other Mysuru leaders within the party, including the Mysuru City BJP president  , and L Nagendra, who unsuccessfully contested the assembly elections five years ago. 
 
 Former chief minister SM Krishna is among those batting for Madegowda’s candidature from Chamaraja segment. Although rumours of BJP grappling with an internal rebellion in the event of Madegowda being chosen as the party candidate are doing the rounds – senior JD(S) leader Harish Gowda quit the party after former University of Mysore vice-chancellor Prof. KS Rangappa was chosen by the party as its candidate for Chamaraja segment – BJP sources said that the decision is likely to be accepted without dissent.
 
 ‘Mane’ Madegowda confirmed to TOI that senior BJP leaders had contacted him, and discussed the idea of fielding him from the segment. “I am open to contesting the elections on a BJP ticket,” said Madegowda.
 
 Popular among the citizens of the city for championing solid waste management plants, Madegowda is seen as a tall Vokkaliga leader. Among his notable contributions to the development of the city include starting the zero waste management plant at Kumbarakoppalu. Madegowda’s many efforts to effectively handle waste earned him many state and national awards.
 
 As the president of the City Trust Improvement Board (CITB), precursor to the Mysuru Urban Development Authority (Muda), Madegowda supervised the construction of 6,500 houses for people from the economically weaker sections under the Asha Mandira scheme. His 18-month tenure at the head of CITB also saw the creation of sites in various parts of Mysuru, and their distribution through attractive loan schemes.
 
 A former MLC, Madegowda had unsuccessfully contested the assembly elections from Chamaraja segment as an Independent in 1994. He tried and failed to get into the Lok Sabha on two occasions in 1989 and ’91. After a six-year term as a Congress MLC between 2002 and ’08, he stayed away from active politics while continuing to focus on waste management policies.
 
 
