CHENNAI: Spinners who can dish out variety are at a premium in world cricket these days. And Australia, in their bid to find a spinner with a lot of options, have chosen 15-year-old Chennai ambidextrous all-rounder   in their U-16 team for the upcoming season.

 Nivethan, son of a former Tamil Nadu junior state cricketer Anbu Selvan, moved to Australia with his family in 2013 and since then has represented the   (NSW) junior cricket team in Sydney. “It’s a dream come true for me. I’m looking forward to the opportunities and hope to make it count. Last year, the U-16s had former Aussie pacer   as coach. With Greg Chappell at the helm, I think some former star cricketer could be the coach again. I’m excited about it and the exposure would be terrific,” Nivethan told TOI from Sydney.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 What sets Nivethan apart from others in his age-group is his unorthodox skillset. When he was six, Nivethan bowled left-arm spin and later tried offspin. He could bowl right-arm medium-pace if needed. He is also a left-handed opening batsman. “That’s the big advantage. We usually play two-day Grade games. During summer, spinners do the bulk of the work. The fact that I bowl with both hands comes in handy for my club. It gives me and the side an advantage as I bring a certain degree of balance.”
 
 Nivethan announced his arrival in Chennai cricket at the age of eight by claiming a hat-trick in a TNCA lower division league match.
 
 
 
 
 A couple of years later he migrated to Sydney and in 2017, the spinner caught the attention of Chappell with an unbeaten 193 opening for NSW juniors.
 
 Nivethan, a 10th grade student at the Homebush High School in Sydney, will be part of the U-16s which will take on the Australia U-17s in the upcoming National Championships and later travel to Dubai as part of Cricket Australia’s exposure plans.
 
 Nivethan’s father Anbu was a cricket coach in Chennai, but the teenager finds the Aussie cricket culture to be quite different from India. “The brand of cricket played in India and Australia is different. Boys of my age-category in Australia are definitely much stronger than in India. However, tactically Indian boys are a bit ahead. In India, during junior matches at the academy level, coaches assist the skipper with inputs regarding field placings. However, that’s not the case in Australia. Coaches won’t interfere during a match. They talk only during breaks,” explained Nivethan, who played for Karaikudi Kalaai in the Tamil Nadu Premier League last season.
 
 In an era where teenagers dream of becoming Virat Kohli and AB de Villiers, Nivethan wants to emulate the legendary Sir Garfield Sobers, who could bowl both pace and spin.
 
 “I love Sachin Tendulkar’s technique, Kohli’s aggression, Steve Smith’s game plan, Shakib’s arm-ball and Nathan Lyon’s offies. But I want to emulate what Sir Garry did as a complete allrounder,” he added. While Nivethan is guided by father Anbu, it was a technical suggestion from Aussie offspinner Lyon, who was a consultant at the NSW academy last year, which made a big difference.
 
 “The only top Aussie cricketer I have spoken to till date is Lyon. It was his inputs which made me improve as a bowler. I used to be chest-on earlier. He told me to come more side-on. I tried implementing it and it helped me generate bounce and spin. Even on flat wickets, because of my action, I was able to grip and turn the ball,” said Nivethan.
 
