Think   and you can instantly picture   elegantly flaunting it in Breakfast at Tiffany’s. Iconic and timeless, the   dress is a perfect balance of glamour and sophistication and can never go out of fashion. In fact, what it deserves is a fun, chic twist from time to time. Yes, the sheath is a lot more than just a sleeveless one-piece dress; it can have a range of variations depending on one’s body type and personality. “A closet staple, the sheath comes in almost every fabric and colour, and can easily transition from office to after-work cocktails,” says designer  . 

 Depending on the occasion, it can be dressed up or down in colours suiting the mood. Wadhwa’s picks: A classic black one for an evening soiree matched with some peep toes and minimal jewellery; a pastel sheath with a floral scarf and dainty pearls is perfect for a brunch or shopping; a   piece can be worn casually; and a corseted one with a sheer cape works well for a dramatic look. 
 
 
 No matter what your shape or size, there’s a sheath dress that will give your body the desired hourglass shape. When picking a sheath for yourself, remember to opt for the right fit and fabric. Designer Lina Mane suggests looking for a sheath that highlights your best assets and conceals the less favourable ones. “While it is particularly appropriate for an hourglass figure, it can flatter all body types provided you make the right choice. It accentuates your slim waist and enhances your curves instead of hiding them,” she adds. 
 
 Opt for a fitted one that is close to the body throughout but not tight, nipping in at your natural waist. “If you are busty and have an apple-shaped body, pick a well-fitted bodycon and sport it with confidence,” advises designer Parul J Maurya. Her other suggestions? Stretchy fabrics and stealthy colour blocking visually trim you. For petite girls, just-above-the-knee hemline works wonders as it makes their legs look longer. 
 
 
 The elegance and simplicity of the sheath make it perfect for every woman’s wardrobe. Team it with other garments like a blazer or add to it delicate details like peplum, lace, cape or bell sleeves. “Accessorising the versatile sheath is relatively easy,” says Wadhwa. Heels — kitten or stilettos — are ideal for a formal do. For an easy vibe, pair with wedges. Accessories like ear studs, a long necklace or choker, a stole, a statement watch or even a cocktail ring go well with a sheath. When choosing a bag for your outfit, keep in mind the fabric of the dress. Sheer, silk or dupion calls for a more formal vibe. A studded minaudière or a sleek chained shoulder bag works well. A baguette or roomy tote looks chic with a more casual look. Whatever you do, follow one rule: Never overdo it – stick to a clean-cut dress with basic accessories.
 
 
 The simple sheath dress dates back to ancient Egypt, when a rectangular piece of cloth was folded once and sewn down the edge to make a tube. Egyptian artwork often portrays women sporting the dress. Since the Edwardian Era, past the 1950s till today, it has been the most frequently-used   for women. The sheath dress, with a defined waist, has taken on several different iterations throughout history. In the 1940s, sheath styles became quite popular. The 1950s and 60s were prime years for the slim-fit sheath.
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 From L to R:
 1. Use strategic cut-outs
 2. Opt for dramatic fancy sleeves
 3. Go for shoulder showoff
 4. Use frills & ruffles
 
 
  
  
 
 From L to R:
 1. Go for a denim one
 2. Update with a quirky jacket
 3. Opt for a graphic print
 
