Surat: The state tax department here has served a show cause notice to the scam-tainted Nirav Modi-owned Firestar International Private Limited at Belgium Tower and raised demand of value added tax (VAT) on inter-state sales and export of jewellery to the tune of over Rs 3,500 crore in the financial year 2013-14. It has also sought 18% interest on the due amount with 150% penalty.

 According to department sources, since the sales mentioned in the comprehensive report of returns are to be taxed at 12.5% VAT plus 2.5% additional tax, the VAT amount due comes to roughly Rs 525 crore. The department will be charging the interest and penalty on this amount if the company’s manager fails to remain present with all the documents latest by March 12. However, the state tax department did not disclose the exact amount of VAT due.
 
 The show cause notice (copy of which is with TOI) has been issued by the joint commissioner of state tax, Surat division-7 in connection with the proceedings of audit assessment under Section 34(2) of the Gujarat Value Added Tax (GVAT) Act, 2003, and Section 9(2) of the Central Sales Tax (CST) Act, 1956 for the year 2013-14. 
 
 In the notice, it has been stated that the company has failed to submit vital documents establishing the sales and export of valuable goods like shipping bill, export general manifesto, bank realization state etc. Moreover, the shipping bill mentioned in the air-way bill was also not produced for audit assessment. 
 
 The department has stated that the company has not filed annual return and audit report in form 205 under Section 33 and 63 of the GVAT Act, 2003. 
 
 It also stated that the verification of documents submitted by the company was done with the official website data of E-BRC of Director General of Foreign Trade (DGFT), which suggests that export of Rs 2,479 crore were allowed and export of Rs 998 crore are disallowed. The company branch transferred the goods amounting to Rs 40 crore, but no document for dispatching and statutory forms were produced. 
 
 It must be noted that the enforcement directorate (ED) had raided the head office of Nirav Modi located at Belgium Tower in the city and five units located in the Surat Special Economic Zone (SurSEZ) immediately after the multi-crore bank fraud came to light. 
 
 A senior officer seeking anonymity said, “We have given final notice to the company to appear before the state tax department before March 12. Non-compliance of this notice will be treated as non-presence and ex-parte assessment will be completed in the sales value of Rs 3,500 crore.”
 
 
