NEW DELHI: India’s road to the final of the 2018   is straightforward: beat Bangladesh in game five of the tri-series on Wednesday, and they will reach the summit. But Bangladesh, having pulled off a superb chase against Sri Lanka over the weekend, will have plans to stall Rohit Sharma’s team. 

 
 
 
 The key to this clash will be how Bangladesh’s bowlers - who conceded 214 in the last game - cope against India’s batting. Rohit has yet to make an impact in the series, and will be desperate to make amends. What odds he chooses this match to strike form after six consecutive poor innings? 
 
 Rain is forecast for the afternoon, which could spice up the R Premadasa surface. 
 
 
 
 
  R Premadasa, Colombo
 
 
  March 14, 2018
 
 
  19:00 IST
 
 
  Heavy afternoon thunder storms predicted, with 88% humidity. 
 
 
 
 
 
 India made one change for the last game - Rishabh Pant made way for KL Rahul who made 18 off 17 deliveries before he was out hit wicket. Expect Rahul to get another chance. 
 
 
  1   (capt), 2 Shikhar Dhawan, 3 KL Rahul, 4 Suresh Raina, 5 Manish Pandey, 6 Dinesh Karthik (wk), 7 Vijay Shankar, 8 Washington Sundar, 9  , 10 Jaydev Unadkat, 11 Yuzvendra Chahal 
 
 
 
 The team management probably won’t want to change a winning unit, but having conceded 40 runs in three overs in the last game, Taskin Ahmed may not be an automatic pick with the new ball. Abu Jayed could get the nod. 
 
 
  1 Tamim Iqbal, 2 Soumya Sarkar, 3 Liton Das, 4 Mushfiqur Rahim (wk), 5 Mahmudullah (capt), 6 Sabbir Rahman, 7 Mehidy Hasan, 8 Mustafizur Rahman, 9 Taskin Ahmed/Abu Jayed, 10 Rubel Hossain, 11 Nazmul Islam
 
 
 
  
  
 
  This will be the seventh T20I between these teams, India have claimed victory in each of the previous six clashes
 
 
  India have been victorious in eight of their 10 outings at R.Premadasa Stadium in Colombo, compared to Bangladesh who have won two and lost two of their four previous T20Is at this venue.
 
 - Bangladesh have tasted defeat in 13 of their last 15 T20 matches overall (W2), they do come into this game having claimed a win over Sri Lanka in their most recent match however.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 "The Indian bowlers made a lot of change of pace, especially their spinners. They found turn when they bowled it very slow. The pace bowlers have taken off the pace from the ball. We need to keep an eye on these things." - 
 
 "I have told one thing before: I love challenges," Thakur said. "I am taking it as a challenge. If other senior bowlers are missing from the team, then I have to step up. I have done this previously for other teams that I have played for.” - 
  
 
