JAIPUR: After earlier declaration of postponement of the  , the   headquarters on Tuesday announced the cancellation of examination. With this announcement, the total examination is cancelled, including the first phase, which was already been conducted.

 The examination was meant for the post of 5,390 constables and nearly 16 lakh candidates were appearing for it. At least, 5 lakh had already appeared in the first phase of the examination which was taken online for the first time.
 
 
 The announcement came a week after SOG wing of Rajasthan police busted gangs involved in facilitating cheating in the examination by various modus operandi in which 26 people are already arrested.
 
 Officials of   comprising OP Galhotra, director general of police, Rajasthan police who is chairman of the board,  , additional director general (Headquarters) as member and others discussed the discrepancies that was brought to fore by the SOG wing of the Rajasthan police.
  
  
 “The examination has lost its credibility and it is not wise to continue the process of examination. Thus, on the recommendation of the board, it was decided to cancel the exam,” said a senior officer of police headquarters.
 
 Officials said that the announcement of the fresh dates of the exam would be decided soon.
 
 Expressing concern over the cancelation of exam following the busting of cheating rackets, former chief minister,   said the private companies that were blacklisted by his government are now given contract of taking online exams. “These companies on different names are operating in the system. I demand a serious probe into the matter and those responsible should be punished,” said Gehlot in an official statement.
 
 Pradesh Congress committee(PCC), president Sachin Pilot in his statement alleged that the way cheating cases were brought to fore cleared that the state government was not serious in conducting the constable recruitment exam. “It has played a spoilsport to the dreams of youths preparing for police recruitment exam,” Pilot said. It may be recalled that SOG had busted a gang involved in facilitating cheating by taking the computer used in the examination on remote and also by thumbprint cloning. Sleuths have arrested 26 persons in this connection so far.
 
