BHOPAL: In the absence of well-defined data on   (IMR) and under 5 mortality rate ((U5MR) across districts, residences, social classes and genders, the   and U5MR continue to be the highest in  .

 Despite the continuing trends of decline, Madhya Pradesh is not likely to achieve the National Health Policy 2017 goal of reducing U5MR to less than 23 by 2025. In a paper — Inequalities in child mortality in Madhya Pradesh — prepared by  , a former professor of Institute of Economic Growth, Delhi, said the state has already failed to achieve Millennium Development Goal-4 (MDG4) — reducing under-five mortality rate (U5MR) by two-third between 1990 and 2015.
 
 The paper was presented at an ongoing conference on Contemporary Issues in Maternal and Child Mortality in India being held in Bhopal.
 
 Madhya Pradesh has the highest IMR and U5MR among states and Union Territories of the country, according to the  . “ Despite efforts of the state government the rank of Madhya Pradesh as compared to other states and Union territories has virtually remained unchanged over last 40 years,” Chaurasia, author of ‘India: The State of Population 2007’ said.
 
 Chaurasia used the data on children born and surviving children through the 2001 and 2011 population census and calculated IMR and U5MR for 540 mutually exclusive population sub-groups in the state for analysing inequalities in IMR and the U5MR. Among others conclusions drawn, include inequalities in child mortality in the state are quite pervasive. There is only a marginal change in child mortality inequalities in the state over time.
 
 He said district-based approach to reducing child mortality in the state appears to be the need of the hour. He has also suggested constituting a task force for child mortality in MP. He said inequalities in child mortality reflect inequalities in social and economic development in MP. Principal secretary woman and child welfare JN Kansotia said, “Broadly speaking, the target group is very well-known. We have almost 21% tribal and about 17% scheduled caste population to be targeted. But challenge is the reach. They live in interiors. Despite challenges, we have worked and situation has improved.”
 
