Trichy: Untouchability is the worst tyranny any part of the world has ever seen. So is the caste system. And these are practised in the name of God, said Dravida Kazhagam leader K Veeramani here on Friday.

 Speaking at the World Atheism Conference 2018 in Trichy, Veeramani said India is land of atheism, not temples. Atheism is not just the denial of religion, but denial of all superstitions associated with it too. He said atheism dated back to 1500 CE in our country. 
 
 Lakshman Tamil, Periyar International, USA, said caste system is the bane of India and society cannot progress as long as this Vedic system exists. 
 
 Hinduism cannot claim that it is all-encompassing until it disowns the Vedas, he said. Buddhism and Jainism moved away from people and lost their relevance. The Dravidar Kazhagam has created a populous atheist movement and it is the true Shramana movement of the modern time in terms of the core philosophy of atheism, he said.
 
 Terming Periyar’s atheism the most relevant, Lakshman Tamil said it is also a populous movement. Its multifaceted nature has also contributed to its popularity. 
 
 “Dravidian philosophy is the only alternative to Hindutva. People have to choose between Hindutva, which is a Vedic tradition that is based on hate and segregates people in the name of caste, and Dravidian philosophy, which preaches self-respect,” said Lakshman Tamil. 
 
 Former Union telecom minister A Raja started off by thanking the CBI and the CAG for making him popular worldwide in the 2G spectrum case. Being an atheist since teenage, his belief in atheism strengthened further during his imprisonment in the Tihar jail when he saw prisoners, who included rapists and murderers, making a beeline to offer oil to a figure of Saturn (Shani). 
 
 Hinduism was used as a tool by upper caste people to keep a majority section poor by denying them education. This is a country where people are divided in terms caste. And this notion is created by religion, he said. 
 
 As many as 500 papers on atheism are going to be presented in the conference that is going to last for 3 days. 
 
 
