MANGALURU: Following the murder of Bajrang Dal activist  , the state and central governments assured employment for his brother  , 26. Three months later, the hearing-and-speech-impaired youth works as a  .

 The reasons for his current state is however debatable. While lack of communication appears to be one of the reasons, the lure of a central government job is understood to be a factor that has left Sathish not taking job offers from the state government. In the meanwhile, he continues to work as a mason. 
 
 A recent media report quoted district deputy commissioner Sasikanth Senthil S as saying that Deepak’s family hadn’t been responding positively to the district administration’s job offer at the Dr Shivarama Karantha Pilikula Nisargadhama. However, the family told TOI otherwise.
 
 “We read the newspaper report a few days ago in which the deputy commissioner has said they tried contacting us. However, we haven’t received any call. We aren’t sure if they tried calling Deepak’s mother (Premalatha). She hasn’t recovered yet. She also doesn’t answer phone calls most of the time. She doesn’t even know to return calls,” Vinod, Deepak’s cousin, told TOI. 
 
 On the other hand, DC Sasikanth Senthil told TOI that the job offer at the Nisargadhama stands. “The job offers still stands. All he has to do is come and meet me,” he said.
 
 Vinod said Sathish rejected a job offer from KIOCL Limited, a Government of India undertaking, as it was offered to him on a temporary basis. According to Vinod, the officials have said Sathish’s application for a permanent job is under process.
 
 “Officials at the KIOCL have said his application for a permanent job is being processed and it will take at least two more months as elections are around the corner. For now, they offered him a job on a temporary basis for a salary of Rs 12,000. However, he earns more than this doing masonry. So he did not take it up,” Vinod said.
 
 A credible source, privy to the developments, said the family may be delaying the offer at the Nisargadhama, as he awaits an offer from Mangalore Refinery and Petrochemicals Limited, an assurance which was received from MP Nalin Kumar Kateel. However, TOI did not get to hear about this offer from Deepak’s family.
 
 After the murder of Deepak Rao on January 4, the BJP and Sangh Parivar had launched an online campaign to raise funds. The money collected through the campaign, and the compensation received from various quarters, is together pegged at at least Rs 80 lakh.
 
 
