MUMBAI: The past few days have been all about the   in board exams. Students from both   and   schools had a top score of over 99%, and most schools reported an increase in the number of  . In the recently announced   results too, almost 5,500 students breached the 90%-mark in the state. 

 
 
  
 
 However, these are only a minority of the 14 lakh students who took the exam. A large number of students have secured “not so great” marks, and for them, a few   have one thing to say —marks don’t matter. 
 
 Popular pastry chef Pooja Dhingra had scored 77% in her ICSE   and doesn’t even remember her HSC results. According to her, it is more important to set your eyes on something you love doing. “I have a 75-member team and have never asked them how much they scored in their board exams. Marks aren’t critical to having a job. Students must find something that they enjoy doing,” said Dhingra. “When I was in class XII, I wanted to pursue either law or hospitality. After two weeks of studying law, I realized I wanted to switch to hospitality and I started working towards my dream of opening a cafe. Since then, I have been a dedicated learner. Apart from taking my formal education, I continue to spend hours learning a new skill,” she added. 
 
 Today, 23-year-old Shaan Singh is an established a DJ and producer. He was the first Indian to perform at the EDM festival, Tomorrowland, and has headlined many tours across Asia. Yet, there was a time when he struggled to complete his education. “Most of the top schools in Mumbai didn’t want me because I have dyslexia and ADHD. They said they couldn’t accommodate someone with disabilities,” he said. After moving a few schools and not being able to cope up with the traditional boards, he completed his class XII from an American board.
 
 According to Singh, the lesson of discipline is more important than what students learn from textbooks. “Discipline taught in high school is invaluable. Without discipline, it’s easy to lose focus of the big picture and become lazy. Without hard work, skills become redundant,” he said. 
 
 Professionals also advise students to try and grab any opportunity that comes their way and do it with dedication. “I scored only 58% in my HSC board exams and wasn’t sure about what to do next. I did my graduation in commerce,” said Pritesh Veera, a teacher with a leading tutorial chain. “Everyone at home joined the family business, but I didn’t want to. That’s when I learnt that a tutorial class was looking for an economics teacher and decided to give it a shot. It has been a wonderful journey since then,” he added.
 
 Marketing professional with a German company Swapneel Deshpande had scored 76% in HSC in 2007. “Even then, many of my friends got 90% and did engineering, like me. Today, I have an excellent career and I don’t think it is any less than what my peers have achieved. I found my fit along the way and everyone does too if they keep trying different things,” he said.
 
 
