CHENNAI: Three years after the December floods flushed the   River surface clean, garbage and plastic waste dumped by   residents has once again choked the waterflow in the non-perennial river. The stretch of Adyar River along Ekkattuthangal remains one of the most polluted in the city, giving rise to mosquito breeding.

 
 To prevent garbage dumping, revenue officials are working on a plan to erect 10ft-tall retaining walls on either side of the 42km Adyar River in select stretches.
 
 Garbage trucks and tricycles operated by the city corporation visit the interior roads of Ekkattuthangal every morning, but many residents on either side of the river continue to use the water body as a landfill. Efforts by conservancy workers, who travel on the river in boats to clear garbage at least once a week, has not achieved the desired result. Water in this part of the river is stagnant as plastic waste has choked its flow. Sewage draining into the water body through a canal which travels from Ramapuram is further adding to the pollution.
 
 Fresh water runs through the Adyar River only during the monsoon. The rest of the year Adyar serves as a route for sewage to drain into the ocean. Thamirabarani is the only river in Tamil Nadu which runs throughout the year, all others including Cooum are non-perennial rivers.
 
 According to milkman B Suresh, who works in a cowshed on the banks of the Adyar River, residents dump garbage mostly around 5pm every day. “The mound of garbage formed by residents has begun spilling into the river. Every year, we have to wait for the monsoon to wash away the waste,”   said.
 
 Corporation officials deploy robotic excavators once a month to clear the waste and remove the invasive water hyacinth which thrives in polluted water.   resident D   said, “Aside from efforts by officials, authorities of a nearby temple also carry out periodic clean-ups. But we cannot restore water flow without preventing residents from using the river as a landfill.”
 
 Parvathi rued that work put in by the corporation goes to waste as garbage and water hyacinth excavated from the river is piled up on the bund on either side. “Excavated waste piled on the bunds trickles back into the river. This waste has to be carted away on trucks,” Parvathi said.
 
 Adyar River originates from water bodies in Manimangalam village, Kancheepuram, travels downstream through Thiruneermalai and enters the city near Nandambakkam where it collects industrial effluents from factories. “We have to deal with not just waste generated in Ekkattuthangal, but also sewage and effluents from upstream,” a corporation official said.
 
 An additional surplus course from Chembarambakkam reservoir also joins the Adyar River, which takes excess rainwater along Anakaputhur, Manapakkam, Ramapuram, Saidapet and Kotturpuram before emptying into the   at Adyar estuary.
 
 In addition to erecting retaining walls, revenue officials will widen the the river width. “When the widening exercise begins, several homes built on the river bank will have to be demolished. Once the walls are up, we will be able to maintain the river better,” said an official.
 
