NEW DELHI: After they revived back channel diplomacy, India and Pakistan are looking at addressing humanitarian issues with renewed vigour. Pakistan this week released an Indian youth suffering from a serious blood disorder and, sources here said, India is considering releasing a Pakistani woman,  , whose ailing 90-year-old mother wants her daughter to return to Pakistan before she dies. 

 
 Indian high commissioner to Pakistan Ajay Bisaria on Friday said both countries were working for the release of all prisoners who had served their sentences. “Too many still languish in jails even after serving their sentences. On both sides. We are working on getting them all home,” Bisaria said in a social media post. 
 
 
 
  
 
 Pakistan has appealed to India to release 56-year-old Nasreen who came to India as a pilgrim in 2006 and was arrested for her involvement in a case related to illegal possession of drugs. Nasreen completed her sentence some months ago. Nasreen is said to be suffering from a stomach tumour and liver malfunctioning. “She has high blood pressure and high sugar and cannot walk on her own for long and is brought to the jail office in a wheelchair,” said an official. 
 
 Nasreen’s mother has said that her only wish is to see her daughter reunited with her family. The Pakistan high commission has paid the fine imposed on her and all procedural formalities are said to have been completed for her repatriation. On Thursday, Pakistan had repatriated a young Indian national who was suffering from thalassemia, a blood disorder. 
 
 
 
  
 
 The youth,   Arjunwar, had strayed into Pakistan from the   border on August 12, 2013, following a fight with his family members. He remained under treatment in a juvenile jail in Pakistan due to the disorder before being transferred to the Landhi district jail where all Indian prisoners have been kept since January 2015. “Homecoming! After five years in Pakistani jails, Jitendra came back home today. Quite ill, but smiling, he's just 21.Thanks to all the good folks on both sides of the border who pushed for his release,” Bisaria said.
 
