MYSURU: BJP state president   on Monday promised that Rs 1 lakh crore, provided by the  , would be spent on irrigation projects in the state if the BJP came to power in Karnataka.

 Yeddyurappa, who was at a function held at part of the BJP’s   at the BR Ambedkar Bhavan at HD Kote taluk on Monday, said that he would ensure development of Kabini and other reservoirs, which would subsequently result in the lakes in the area getting filled up.
 
 Pointing out that bad programmes initiated by chief minister Siddaramaiah’s government had resulted in the prices of manure and fertilisers increasing sharply, Yeddyurappa said, “One bag of fertiliser costs more than Rs 100. The government is also importing sand bags from foreign countries, which are priced at Rs 210. The sons of CM   and public works minister HC   have looted the sand in the district, forcing the government to import it from foreign countries.”
 
 Expressing his anger at Siddaramaiah, who has repeatedly raked up the issue of his being jailed for corruption, Yeddyurappa said, “Sonia and Rahul Gandhi too have corruption charges against them, and are out on bail.”
 
 “CM Siddaramaiah has 67 cases against him. BJP workers will print pamphlets containing all cases against Siddaramaiah and distribute it. Congress, which has divided the society in the name of caste and religion will be defeated in this election,” the former CM said.
 
  Former minister Suresh Kumar, and Mysuru district president M Shivanna were among those in attendance at the rally on Monday.
 
 Dalit activists stage protest
 
 Activists from various Dalit organisations staged a protest against BJP leaders by holding black flags, when Yeddyurappa passed near the KSRTC Bus Stand. The protesters raised slogans agains Anant Kumar Hegde and BJP spokesperson G Madhusudhan, who spoke against Dalits and the Constitution. The protesters also applied black paint on a photograph of Yeddyurappa, to give vent to their anger. Nearly 20 protesters were arrested by cops, and released later.
 
 In Nanjangud, Yeddyurappa’s car was gheraoed near Adarsha School. His car was blocked when the BJP state president was en route Nanjangud after attending a rally at HD Kote. Although Yeddyurappa tried to pacify the protesters by pointing out that Hegde had apologised for his remarks, the protesters refused to relent, and police were forced to clear his path so he could continue his travel.
 
 
