LUDHIANA: Though not even a single case of dengue, malaria, or chikungunya has surfaced in the   due to the recent rainfall and sudden upsurge in the temperature, the district health department has advised the public to be cautious in this season and adopt preventive measures. Health officials have also asked the municipal corporation to start fogging in sensitive areas, so that mosquitoes can be controlled at the breeding stage, and send the fogging schedule to the health department.

 Recently, health officials also found larvae at the   (PRTC) bus depot, and they have asked municipal corporation officials to issue challans to the   general manager. Officials claimed it was during the rainy season that larva develops, and in one week, the mosquitoes are ready to bite. Already, health teams are visiting the scattered areas every Friday to find larvae. The relief will be in June when the temperature remains between 40 and 45 degrees.
 
 District epidemiologist Dr   said it was due to recent rainfall that larvae must have developed, so it was required that they be eradicated at this time. He said they had already conveyed to the MC health branch to start fogging in the city. Regarding the precautions residents should take, he said people should empty stagnant water from the roof, tyres, trash cans, jars, metal drums, and flower pots. He also advised people to keep their arms and legs covered at day time, because this mosquito bites at daytime.
 
 Meanwhile, MC medical officer health Dr   said: “People have been demanding fogging from the past few days, so we had asked the health department for permission, which they have given. So, we will start fogging shortly.”
 
 However, as soon as mosquitoes start troubling residents, the fear of vector-borne diseases also starts looming large over them. SBS Nagar resident   said there were so many mosquitoes all around, and so many cases of dengue and chikungunya were reported last year, that they were very scared of getting affected. She said the authorities should start fogging immediately. 
 
 
 
