ASICS, a true sport performance brand, welcomed Indian Cricketer Suresh Raina to its sprawling Gurgaon store today. The newest addition to the   Athlete Family, the cricketer introduced the brand’s   footwear range to his fans and brand’s patrons.

 Raina, known for his powerful on-field performance at the international cricket stage, met his fans at the ASICS’ store where he divulged some of his best- kept fitness secrets and expert cricketing tips. The star performer also used this opportunity to pick up essentials from the ASICS GEL-KENUN range to help him prepare for his next game.
 
 The new range provides superior comfort in any activity at any time. The shoes’ versatile style combines light support and flexibility thanks to its remastered GEL technology. Designed with Pad GEL, GEL-KENUN KNIT shoes adapt to the wearer’s environment providing comfort and shock absorption in a stylish, breathable silhouette.
 
 “It gives me immense pleasure to be the newest ASICS Athlete. I’m extremely humbled to be a part this family, one that is home to the most talented sportsmen around the world. Known for their best-in-class technology and high-quality products, the brand has over the years contributed to ensuring that one always stays ahead of the curve. The GEL-KENUN KNIT’s range offers unmatched superior comfort and is sure to complement my game. I look forward to my first innings with the brand.” said Raina.
 
 Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Rajat Khurana, ‎Managing Director- ASICS India Ptv. Ltd., “With over 60 years of pathbreaking innovations, the brand is driven by its core ideology - ‘sound mind in a sound body’, a commitment to enhance and improve an athletes game. We are happy to welcome Suresh Raina as the newest member of the ASICS Athlete family. His dedication as a sportsman perfectly resonates and brings to life the spirit of the brand. We are excited to offer the ASICS GEL-KENUN KNIT range to our patrons and sportsmen alike and give them chance to experience the best-in-class technology and high-performance sporting gears.”
 
 
