Coimbatore: Equity mutual funds (MFs) are betting on defensive sectors.  The weightage of defensive sectors in MFs allocation rose to a 14-month high of 26.3% in April. The weightage of consumer-facing companies, IT (Information Technology) and healthcare rose 0.2%, 0.1% and 0.1% respectively during the month. Capital goods, healthcare, cement, automobiles and metals were among the sectors where ownership by fund houses rose above average levels. The ownership of equity MFs vis-a-vis BSE-200 was at least 1% higher in these sectors. While 15 equity MF schemes had a higher ownership in capital goods firms, 11 schemes over-owned healthcare scrips. April saw notable changes in sector and stock allocation of MFs. On a month-on-month (m-o-m) basis, the weightage of automobile, consumer facing firms, IT, metals, healthcare and NBFCs (non-banking finance companies) increased, while those of public sector banks, oil & gas, private banks, capital goods and companies in the chemicals business moderated. Out of the top-10 stocks that recorded an increase in value during the month, four were from financial services sector. IT major Infosys saw a value increase of Rs 3,080 crore in April, as the stock was up 5.7%. Notably, the stock saw net buying by 14 out of the top-20 funds. ITC was also one of the preferred stocks among MFs in April with net buying by 11 funds. Its market capitalisation (m-cap) increased by Rs 2,450 crore as the stock was up 10% in the month, data compiled by Motilal Oswal Securities showed. State Bank of India (SBI) was one of the least preferred stocks among MFs in April. In all, nine funds sold the SBI scrip on a net basis. SBI’s m-cap decreased by Rs 1,800 crore with the stock declining 1.5% during the month. MFs started the financial year on a positive note. The total assets under management (AUM) of the MF industry touched a new high of Rs 23.3 lakh crore in April, an 8.9% increase on a m-o-m basis. The rise was primarily due to the growth in AUM of liquid, equity and balanced funds. All categories saw a rise, except gilt and gold exchange traded funds. After declining in February and March, equity AUM rose 6.7% m-o-m to a new high of Rs 8 lakh crore in April. Notably, equity AUM has increased 41% over the last 12 months, as against a 22% rise in India’s m-cap. The increase in equity AUM was led by a rise in market indices with the broad-based Nifty registering a 6.2% m-o-m growth in April.