NEW DELHI: The government has asked   to build a database of borrowers with loans of over Rs 50 crore as it mandated state-run lenders to collect their   in a bid to stop escape from the country in case of a default.

 “PSBs (public sector banks) to collect passport details of all new borrowers of loans above Rs 50 crore. Loan application forms to be suitably modified,” Rajeev Kumar, secretary, department of financial services, said on Twitter. Kumar said that for existing cases of loans above Rs 50 crore, banks will collect passport details within 45 days. 
 
 This is part of what the department says is its “commitment to clean and responsible banking.” The move comes against the backdrop of several high-profile cases, including the recent Rs 12,600 crore fraud in Punjab National Bank (PNB), allegedly triggered by jewellers Nirav Modi and Mehul Choksi.
 
 
 
 
 Making passport details mandatory for loans above Rs 50 crore is also aimed to improve transparency between investigative agencies if a defaulter attempts to flee the country. 
 
 The   exposed several gaps and the measures unveiled by the government are expected to plug those holes.
 
 Banks will now be able to alert investigative agencies immediately if they comes across fraud and agencies in turn can start proceedings and prevent defaulters from leaving the country. 
 
 Sources had earlier said passport details with banks will deter any defaulter from trying to flee out of fear of being apprehended in airports. 
 
 The government is currently making efforts to get Modi and Choksi back to the country to face the law.
 
 The department of financial services, which oversees PSBs, had asked banks to check all NPAs or bad loans above Rs 50 crore. It also set a 15-day deadline to fix all operational gaps following the PNB fraud. 
 
 Managing directors of PSBs were ordered to detect fraud in time and refer cases to the Central Bureau of Investigation. They also were asked to involve other agencies like the Enforcement Directorate and Directorate of Revenue Intelligence for foreign exchange violations.
 
