MOHALI: Mohali councillors are waiting for high court’s decision regarding   Kulwant Singh’s petition wherein he challenged the orders of issuance of showcase notice in the tree pruning machine scam. The tiff between   Balbir Singh Sidhu and mayor Kulwant Singh after the scam has led to stalling of various developmental works in Mohali.

 Residents and councillors are of the view that Mohali municipal corporation (MC) has been deficient in completing the various developmental works despite the fact that the premission to carry out the same had been passed by the House six months ago. Councillors Kamaljit Singh Ruby,  ,   Sohal and Parwinder Singh said they are answerable to the residents who have voted them to power. 
 
 They said MC has lagged behind in completing the public interest works like repairing the public toilets in various parks, cleaning of parks, removal of vehicles from green belts, door to door garbage collection, setting up of 20 toilets under ODF. 
 
 Councillor of ward number 24 Kamaljit Singh Ruby said, “The N-Choe, which bisects Phase IX was supposed to be cleaned by MC. MC was also supposed to construct cycle tracks, walking paths and fix foot lights on the banks of the choe but has miserably failed.” 
 
 Councillor of ward number 35 Parwinder Singh said, “We had written to MC several times but to no avail. The developmental works are on hold due to resistance between two politicians.”
 
 Sukhdev Singh Patwari, another councillor, said, “Though the maintenance of various parks has been outsourced but from the past six months, the company has not performed properly. We need to bring out an understanding between the two politicians for the developmental works to progress.”
 
 Meanwhile mayor Kulwant Singh said, “The conditions of the public toilets have improved over the past few months. We lost some points under this component as some of the toilets were not found clean during the survey. We will ensure that they are cleaned on daily basis. Phase XI toilet, which has been recently handed over by Gmada, will soon be repaired and made functional.” MLA   commenting on the issue said, “There is no tiff between us. We are working ardently for the betterment of Mohali.”
 
 
