VIJAYAWADA: Responding to BJP president Amit Shah’s letter, in which he charged TDP president and   chief minister   with playing partisan politics and pulling out of NDA solely due to political considerations, Naidu hit back on Saturday and termed the charges “a bundle of lies”. 

 
 The animosity displayed by BJP and TDP seems to suggest there is no chance of reconciliation between the two parties which fought the last Lok Sabha elections as alliance partners. 
 
 Reading out Shah’s letter in the assembly, Naidu told the house: “The letter is misleading and contains false information and half-truths. Shah is trying to blame the state government and thus the people of the state with concocted facts about AP’s claims and the Central government’s support. This letter is not for me. It is written for the people of the state and insults them. I want everyone to read it and react. If   is blamed for doing injustice to people through bifurcation, BJP is doing injustice after bifurcation.” 
 
 Naidu said he took the decision to quit the alliance after waiting for four years and in the interest of development of the state. “I visited Delhi 29 times, met the PM, finance minister and others and explained to them what AP required for its development. I have also requested them to give a helping hand to the state till it reaches a level-playing field,” he said, adding the Union government was indifferent to his requests. 
 
 “They did not honour promises made to the people. What all we are asking now is fulfilment of the provisions of the AP Reorganisation Act, the promises made by the then Prime Minister in   and the industrial incentives which are given to the states having special category status,” he said. Naidu alleged that the Union government had misled him stating that the special category status (SCS) is being withdrawn as per the recommendations of the Fourteenth Finance Commission.
 
 “I was promised that the government would give better financial benefits through a special package as the SCS is being withdrawn. I accepted it and wanted more industrial and tax incentives,” he said. “The NDA government refunded GST to the north-eastern states on March 31, 2017. Again on March 21, 2018, even as AP is fighting, the Centre announced the North Eastern Industrial Development Scheme (NEIDS) which gives them industrial and tax incentives. AP too sought the same but the Centre denied us,” he said. Naidu also blamed the Centre for asking him to float a Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV), while no such SPV was required for the north-eastern states.
 
