AMRITSAR: Punjab local bodies’ minister   exposed a scam of over Rs 100 crore in the Amritsar municipal corporation and Amritsar Improvement Trust (AIT) following a forensic audit of the accounts of both bodies conducted by an international accounting and consulting firm   for the period between 2007 and 2017, when the SAD-BJP combine was in power.

 He said major frauds with respect to provident fund, property tax receipts, leasing of shops and unipoles, maintaining over 70 accounts instead of three accounts and carrying out single entry accounting system instead of recommended double entry system accounting had been found.
 
 Talking to newspersons in the presence of chief vigilance officer Sudeep Manak and Grant Thornton officials, Sidhu claimed that the independent review and forensic audit (IFRA) on three urban local bodies (ULB) including  , AIT and sewerage board, Amritsar, had exposed various malpractices.
 
 “ULBs in Amritsar are still using single entry accounting system which is prone to scams whereas double entry system was globally accepted; account books of Amritsar MC and AIT are not updated; key control registers are incomplete and many transactions are not recorded; AMC’s cashbook has not been reconciled with the bank statements for years,” he said.
 
 Not ruling out the possibility of involvement of some banks, Sidhu said the rule mandates the government department not to have more than three bank accounts, but Amritsar MC and AIT had 51 and 71 bank accounts, respectively, that were used to move an entry from one to another bank account to ultimately siphon off the funds. “In case of property tax,” he informed, “tax collected from as many as 9,000 receipts were not deposited in the department.”
 
 Sidhu said he would order similar audits in all the ULBs across Punjab.
 
 He said AIT had given its properties on the lease, but it had failed to collect the lease amount or monthly rents. The minister said Amritsar MC had not given the record of its properties given on rent. Sidhu said strict action would be taken against anyone found guilty including politicians heading the departments.
 
 
