AHMEDABAD: City crime branch on Thursday morning arrested 27-year-old Pritesh  , a resident of   in  , for making a hoax bomb threat call to the   tower of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel International (SVPI) Airport. He allegedly told the ATC that a bomb had been planted inside an international flight in a soft drink can. Trivedi, who is a 10th pass, is involved in medical equipment trading and scrap business. 

 The caller has been charged with sedition and also for spreading rumours which can spread panic and unrest in society. “He will be produced in the court on Friday,” said ACP B C Solanki.
 
 “This is the first time that an accused has been charged with sedition for making a bomb threat call. Earlier, a Mumbai-based jeweller was charged with the anti-hijacking act of 2016 for putting a chit in the washroom of an aircraft threatening hijacking of the flight,” Solanki said.
 
 The accused told the special operation group (SOG) officials that he often watches serials on air crashes and hijackings and wanted to check whether Gujarat police is competent to tackle such situations. “We told him that he can rest assured as with his arrest Gujarat Police has proved that it is competent to handle such situations,” added a senior SOG official.
 
 According to SOG sources, the airport received a call at about 1.28am on March 16, 2018 and the caller claimed, “A man is coming in an international flight with a bomb kept in a soft drink can. Till now you might have got the intelligence inputs. This is the same type of bomb which exploded in an Egyptian aircraft. I am an Indian undercover agent”.
 
 Solanki said the call was received on a landline number of ATC. “From BSNL, we got a four digit number. We then contacted two internet providers and tracked the original number which was from Gandhidham of Kutch. On Thursday morning, we swooped on the address and arrested Trivedi. We have handed him over to Sardarnagar police for further investigation,” added Solanki.
 
 SOG officials said that Trivedi had used a mobile application to mask his original number. 
 
 Police said Trivedi used to remain awake till late in the night and call Kutch police control room several times. “He used to see foreign serials and then test Indian police’s alertness,” said an SOG official.
 
 
