Visakhapatnam: While the   has been recharged in many parts of the state, including Rayalaseema, the table in Visakhapatnam district has plummeted compared to the levels in March last year. 

 This has been primarily attributed to the stretched dry spell during the north-east monsoon. The water levels in the district have now reached 8.7 metres, which was the level in May 2017. For instance, the water level at T Devada has now dropped to 8.3 metres from 4.7 metres in March 2017. Same is the situation in many parts in and around Vizag city. 
 
 The water level at Atchutapuram on Vizag outskirts now stands at 19 metres against 13 metres in March 2017. Parawada is the most affected, with the groundwater level dipping to 20.8 metres compared to 11.5 metres in March 2017.
 
 Besides less rainfall, exploitation and wastage of water resources, and increased constructional activities are also among the reasons behind the mounting water woes in the district. The other mandals/areas that witnessed a drop in the groundwater levels include Dumbriguda, GK Veedhi, Gajuwaka, K Kotapadu, Munchingiputtu, Vemapdu, Anantavaram, Vizag city etc.
 
 Despite the active south-west monsoon spell, Visakhapatnam district registered only 143.3 cm rainfall against a normal of 297.2 cm during the north-east monsoon season, which ended with about 51 per cent rainfall deficiency for Vizag district.
 
 Rayalaseema seems to have gained the most when it comes to the groundwater recharging this year as the average water level now stands at 13.2 metres, as against 18.8 metres in March 2017. The groundwater levels have shot up at least 5 metres in each district of Rayalaseema.
 
 On the other hand, the water levels in the reservoirs that supply water to Vizag city have also been depleting slowly, which will ultimately lead to reduced water supply to residents. A GVMC official informed that they expect a smooth summer this year as the water levels in the reservoirs are sufficient to sail through the hot spell. 
 
 “We have planned to dig 170 new borewells in various parts of the city. The GVMC will also take up repairs of the existing hand borewells and pipeline network. The GVMC will also hire additional tankers for the summer months to supply water to the tailend points of the city,” the official added.
 
 
