PUNE: The state government is keen on embracing the voter-verifiable paper audit trail ( ) system ahead of the 2019   and assembly polls. 

 
 It has sought 3 lakh VVPAT-enabled electronic voting machines (EVMs) from the   ( ). VVPAT-enabled EVMs are believed to be tamper-proof and key to transparency in the democratic voting process.
 
 Officials at the election office said the ECI is expected to give the machines by September. The same set of machines can be used for both Lok Sabha and assembly polls. This is because the election data in the EVms is retained for 45 days. Officials, however, said that they want “good” machines, as they do not want technical glitches on the election day.
 
 “We need roughly the same number of machines for both the polls,” said an official and added that they must be dispatched by September. After that, the state would distribute the machines among different districts depending on the number of polling booths.
 
 With the VVPAT system being successfully used in the recent Karnataka polls, officials in Maharashtra too want the same technology. VVPAT-enabled EVMs ensure that only the vote caster is able to see a machine-generated slip that bears the name and the number of the candidate the voter has chosen.
 
 Though the chief electoral office, which conducts the Lok Sabha and assembly polls, has sought VVPAT machines, the state election commission office — responsible for the municipal corporation, council and zilla parishad polls — has said it will not be using VVPAT machines for the local elections.
 
 State election commissioner JS Saharia said some elections — Sangli-Miraj, Jalgoan, Dhule and Ahmednagar municipal corporation polls and Akola, Washi, Dhule and Nandurbar Zilla Parishad polls — are yet to be held in the state. All these polls will be conducted by December, and the state election office wants to use the regular EVMs for them. “We are confident of our EVMs. They are foolproof and tamper-proof,” said Saharia, explaining why the office does not want to use the VVPAT-enabled machines.
 
