BENGALURU:   continued to add shine to his reputation as his unbeaten 39-ball 90 fired   to a six-wicket win over Delhi Daredevils at the M Chinnaswamy Stadium on Saturday. The South African’s assured show clinched RCB their second win in five games and jump two places to be placed fifth on the points table, while the Daredevils fell to their fourth defeat in five matches. 

 
 
 
 As RCB chased 175 for victory, it seemed that the old firm of de Villiers and Virat Kohli (30 off 26 balls) would need to carry the team yet again after the pair joined up at 29-2 in 4.3 overs. But Kohli was sent back, after a 39-ball 63-run partnership, by Trent Boult’s outrageous one-handed catch at the ropes.
 
 
 
 Unperturbed, the South African continued, smashing 10 fours and five sixes, to bring the crowd back to life. He stitched a 56-run stand with Corey Anderson (15) for the fourth wicket, before the latter was bowled by Boult, to help his side over the finish line with two overs to spare.
 
 Earlier, RCB’s death bowling continued to be their undoing as a fantastic rearguard action from Rishabh Pant (85 off 48 balls) along with a purposeful innings from Shreyas Iyer (52 off 31) propelled Delhi Daredevils to 174/5 in 20 overs.
 
 Choosing to field, RCB had their opponents gasping for breath and struggling at 103/3 in 15 overs but proceeded to concede 14, 13, 15, 18 and 11 in the last five overs. RCB looked like they meant business early on with their bowlers starving the opponents for runs. Umesh Yadav (1-27) looked at his marauding best while Yuzvendra Chahal (2-22) had the batsmen tied up in a knot, turning the ball, as they say, ‘around corners’. The duo got the reward for their attacking intent with Umesh getting Gautam Gambhir (3) to top-edge a hook to Chahal at square leg and Chahal, after softening up Jason Roy (5) with some turners, sending a flipper that bamboozled the Englishman, to knock down the leg stump.
 
 The visitors scored only one boundary during the Powerplay as Daredevils ended the first six overs at 28/2, the lowest Powerplay score this season. Thereafter Iyer and Pant steadied the innings until they switched to attack mode in the 13th over, smashing Mohammed Siraj for 12 runs. Iyer then continued his onslaught on Washington Sundar, lofting two huge sixes in the first two balls to reach his 50 off 29 balls. Iyer then threw away his wicket three balls later sending a wide delivery into the hands of Siraj.
 
