KOLKATA: A young couple in an inter-faith relationship has registered a complaint with the Kolkata Police’s cyber cell after receiving death threats from certain right-wing groups and individuals, who deemed it a perfect example of “love jihad”. The complainants were one of 102 inter-faith couples — of whom 80% are from   — whose names were listed on two separate   pages, both of which were later deleted after pressure from netizens.

 One such post — on the group   — has a chilling message: “This is a list of the Facebook profiles of Hindu women who are victims of love jihad.... We exhort all Hindu tigers to find and hunt the men listed here.”
 
 This post, unavailable now, surfaced sometime in January. The original list of the 102 couples first appeared last November on the Facebook group ‘Justice for Hindus’. That post, too, is unavailable now.
 
 Though the list was deleted, several unknown persons started dropping messages on social media to warn the couple, prompting the girl to block her Facebook profile and go off social media. Finally, on February 7, the couple decided to go to the cops. “Initially, we thought we would ignore the matter, but when we found that the threats were being issued in a coordinated manner, we thought it best to reach out to the police,” said the man, who hails from Bankura but now stays in Kolkata.
 
 
 
 
 The police complaint of the couple states: “We have been targeted by a group of people. In the said post, the authors have promoted and/or attempted to promote disharmony, feelings of enmity, hatred and ill-will on the basis of religion in writing.... So far I am aware of, such intention are offences under the Indian Penal Code, 1860.”
 
 Joint commissioner of police (crime) Praveen Tripathy admitted the police had received a complaint and were trying to identify the Facebook accounts from which these objectionable posts were put up. “We promise to take adequate action, based on the authenticity of such posts,” he said.
 
 The man, however, wanted the cops to do more. “When we lodged a complaint, they told us to block our Facebook profile. That is an unlikely thing to do. Secondly, it has been six days since we lodged the complaint, but so far there has not been any police action. We are getting scared every day, and I feel it is responsibility of the police to provide us safety and security,” he said.
 
 
