Madurai:Amidst poor water storage in reservoirs during agricultural season as well as scant rainfall in the district, Madurai farmers have managed to cultivate pulses and   on as much as 75,510 hectares of land as rain-fed farming proved to be more successful. 

 Madurai district collector K Veera Raghava Rao revealed the agricultural coverage of the district for the financial year 2017 - 18 during the farmers' grievance redressal day on Friday.
 
 Addressing farmers, the collector appreciated them for exceeding the five-year average of the cultivated area in millets and pulses and mentioned that cotton cultivation had almost doubled this year from its average cultivable area. 
 
 However, paddy had taken a big drubbing since it could be cultivated only in the first crop area till Kallanthiri while the second crop area of Melur could not be covered due to water shortage in the reservoirs, he said.
 
 He urged rain-fed farming community to form themselves into clusters so that they could establish millet processing units since the clusters would be provided a grant of Rs 10 lakh each. 
 
 “Farmers would get better prices on processed millets than selling them directly to traders at farms. Though the millets are procured at cheaper rate in farms, they are sold at high cost after processing," he said.
 
 The farmers pointed out that Peraiyur block, where rain-fed farming was prominent, has been struggling without water. 
 
 “The block without any channel irrigation depends heavily on ground water to save crops and the ground water table has stooped too low,” said Sathuragiri, a farmer from Peraiyur.
 
 Another farmer, Sadayandi from Peraiyur, pointed out that water could be saved during recent rains because water bodies and supply channels had been encroached upon. 
 
 He urged the district administration to take measures to clear these encroachments and save water in the tanks. The collector ordered public works department (PWD) to look into the situation and take remedial measures. The farmers also raised issues like bank loans to farming sector and crop insurance. 
 
 Anticipating good southwest monsoon this season, the farming community also urged the district administration to prepare the channels in Periyar irrigation system. They alleged that the channels had not been cleared in the last four years and demanded a meeting with the PWD chief engineer ahead of the monsoon.
 
 
