MUMBAI:  , the prime accused in her daughter Sheena Bora’s murder case, has said she faces a threat to her life since she is a witness in a case being probed by the enforcement directorate (ED). In her statement to the Nagpada police, she has requested that she be kept in CBI’s ‘safe house’.

 Indrani returned to jail on Wednesday afternoon after five days of hospitalisation for a suspected overdose of anti-depressant medicines. She was shifted to   on Friday night. On Sunday, a Nagpada police team visited her in the hospital and recorded her statement.
 
 The ED and   are probing a case against   involving the son of a   politician. It is alleged that the accused allegedly received Rs 3.5 crore from the Mumbai-based INX Media, now known as 9X Media, for helping it get clearance from the   (FIPB) in 2007, when it was run by Indrani and her husband Peter Mukerjea.
 
 Both Peter and Indrani had alleged that they had met the Congress politician in his office, seeking clearance for foreign investments in their media company after the income tax department found some discrepancies in these instances, in 2007.
 
 The politician had then asked them to help in his son’s business and make foreign remittances for the purpose. The couple had also admitted that they subsequently met the politician’s son at a five-star hotel in Delhi, where he allegedly made a demand of $1million.
 
 CBI had brought the politician’s son to Mumbai and confronted him with Indrani in Byculla jail on March 4. Indrani in her statement to the city police has named the politician’s son.
 
 She wrote her statement and handed it over to the police. “The statement is with the Nagpada police station,” a senior police officer told TOI. Indrani has written that she fell unconscious in the jail premises and was taken for treatment.
 
 Indrani reiterated the threat angle before the media while being discharged on Wednesday afternoon. When asked if she feared a threat to her life, she replied in the affirmative.
 
 She is now lodged in a separate cell at the Byculla women’s prison along with two other female inmates. Earlier she was in the general barrack along with 40 other women prisoners. However, the jail officials decided to shift her to a separate cell after a murder convict, Manjula Shetye, was killed in the jail leading to a riot by over 150 female prisoners. Indrani was then accused of instigating women inmates.
 
