PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: Until April 30, the   ( ) received 24 applications for regularization of   in residential, commercial, and industrial zones while the Pimpri Chinchwad New Township Development Authority (PCNTDA) received 15 applications on the same lines until May 15. 

 
  
 There are over 66,000 illegal constructions within PCMC limits and over 30,000 illegal constructions in PCNTDA limits. The state government’s urban development department had in October last year issued a notification for regularization under the Maharashtra Regional Town Planning Act.
 
 PCMC had issued the notification in November 2017, and PCNTDA issued it a month later. Illegal constructions in buffer zone, red zone, blue line of rivers, and on hill slopes would not be regularized as per the notification. Restrictive conditions and compounding charges have led to lower number of applications. Further, the civic administration has issued a notification that dilapidated or structurally unsafe buildings would not be regularized. 
 
 Owners of illegal constructions would have to submit complete details of property tax, sewerage tax, and penalty tax on such properties. A licenced architect will also have to give a stability certificate, civic officials said. If the illegal construction is along the road and in the development plan, the PCMC town planning department’s opinion would be sought. Owners would have to submit building construction maps, officials said. 
 
 For PCNTDA, owners of illegal construction would have to submit complete details of the constructions, survey and sector numbers. They would also have to give land free of charge for road widening works. If any new construction is to carried out on the plot, owners would have to get prior permission from officials. If any stream or canal is blocked, owners would have to give way, officials said. The owners would have to PCNTDA charges as well as municipal taxes.
 
 Ruling party leader   has said that the municipal corporation would seek to reduce stringent conditions. An extension would have to be given for more applications to the state government, he said.
 
 
