Kerala often figures in the must-see destinations for those outside the State and even abroad, but how many Malayalis have actually visited the various beautiful locales in their home turf? This year, make it a point to indulge yourself in all things (and places) Kerala by allotting a weekend a month for one place. The highlight of 2018 is Munnar as the neelakurinji will be in full bloom by mid-year. It is true that the State is more or less a year-round destination but we have prepared a calendar for you with the help of travel enthusiasts to make it easier for you. Happy Journey!

  
  
 
 Unleash the wildlife photographer in you or just watch nature in all its glory during a jungle safari or scenic boat ride along the Thekkady lake in Periyar National Park. The cool weather in January makes it easier to spot the tigers, leopards, elephants, bisons and boars in their natural habitat. Use the Republic Day weekend for your trip.
  
  
 
 Head to Kasaragod for the Ranipuram hills, which is called the Ooty of Kerala. Its proximity to Bhagamandala and Kodagu forest range as well as Madikeri and Bekel Fort make it the perfect destination, if you can combine the Feb 10-11 weekend and the Shivarathri holiday on Feb 13.
 
  
  
 
 Sit near a waterfall or walk along the milky streams of water at Paniyeli Poru, 35 km from Aluva. March is the ideal time to visit the place as the water level is low and you can use any weekend of the month to visit the pristine spot in the outskirts of Ernakulam. 
 
  
  
 
 Travellers say that Mundrothuruthu’s beauty has two different, yet charming, faces; both in summer and monsoon. Why not spend your Easter or Vishu weekend of the year in the village in Kollam, where you would get to see canals and waterways to coir weaving and retting processes? Also, enjoy canoe rides, feeding prawns, and fishing, checking out mangroves and exploring the waterways for a whole day.
 
  
  
 
 Ward off the summer blues and head to Gavi, Pathanamthitta, to get a taste of nature in all its splendour. Stay at one of the eco lodges close to the forest or even opt for the tree houses for an enriching experience. Combine your May Day holiday with the last weekend of April to make room for the travel to the Pamba reservoir and tea plantations at 
 Kumily.
 
  
  
 
 Wayanad in the monsoons lets you experience its lush, green locales in full bloom. With a rich ensemble of flora and fauna along with captivating locations such as the Chembra peak, Edakkal caves, Meenmutty falls and the heart-shaped lake, Wayanad is a treasure trove. Make full use of the Ramzan weekend from June 15 to 17.
 
  
  
 
 The hills of Munnar will turn blue this year, with the neelakurinji flowers, which bloom once in 12 years, expected to blossom from April to October this year. Use a weekend to witness the spectacle and also make sure to visit the top station or Kolukkumalai to experience a fascinating sunrise. You would also spot Nilgiri tahrs and bisons along the picturesque route sprinkled with tea estates.
 
 
  
  
 
 Use the holiday-heavy August, which has the Independence Day and Onam, to treat yourselves to a much-needed vacation at Kerala’s renowned backwater beauty. The Jawaharlal Nehru boat race will be held on August 11 this year. A boat ride to Pathiramanal, which is home to a hundred species of birds, is a must!
 
  
  
 
 It’s a spot for those who love adventure! Situated in the village of Kalkundu in Malappuram, it has many waterfalls, of which Keralamkundu is considered the best. Medicated water from the forests of Western Ghats thunder down these falls and collect in a pool, near which you can also see a mango tree which is considered to be the largest in the world.
 
  
  
 
 Wildlife enthusiasts can use the puja holidays from Oct 18 to 21 to tour Nelliyampathy as well as the Parambikulam natural reserve, at Palakkad. The forest department arranges special safaris into the forest along with trekking opportunities to see the wildlife. If you are lucky, you might come across elephant herds and bisons. For those wanting to sit back and relax, Nelliyampathy located in the lap of forest proves to be the perfect location.
 
  
  
 
 Kozhikode might be the foodie’s paradise in Kerala but it’s also got its scenic spots. Located at an altitude of 2500 ft, Kakkayam has enough to keep the traveller entertained – from trekking sites, waterfalls, a green landscape and a rich collection of flora and fauna. A 45-minute drive will take you to Vayalada peak.
 
  
  
 
 A scenic spot with a sundown and sunrise-to-die-for, Calvary Mount is about 12 km from Idukki. Trek atop the eco-tourism destination or take a jeep, and experience the panoramic view which also shows you the Idukki Dam. The chance to check out fruit and spice plantations on the way is a bonus. Combine the Christmas holidays and you can also check out the adjoining spots like Meesapulimala.
 
