TRICHY: That native dogs are more ideal to pet and raise compared to the exotic/ foreign breeds is well-known but that doesn’t seem to deter city residents from opting for the latter, according to animal husbandry department officials, dog breeders and veterinary doctors. This was evident at a dog show held at the government expo in the city on Saturday, at which only 10 of the 86 dogs brought by pet owners were indigenous. 

 A common misconception among the people is that foreign breeds are superior and more intelligent, says  , clinician at Trichy veterinary polyclinic. “This is mainly because the exotic breeds have been marketed in such a way. But what people fail to understand is, native dogs are equal to or even better than them in several aspects,” he told TOI. Appearance is also an important factor which sways pet lovers and that’s why many plump for a Labrador or a Germen Sheperd over our native dogs, he opined.
 
 But when it comes to being better acclimatised to the local weather and being more immune to common diseases, native dogs win hands down, several veterinarians claimed. A senior official from the animal husbandry department said that raising native dogs would be financially viable for the people. “One doesn’t need to feed local breeds the so-called dog foods and supplements. Also, foreign breeds, in general, start to get health ailments around the age of seven or eight, while the native dogs are very healthy at least till the age of 10. Hence the medical expenses wouldn’t be much while raising indigenous breeds,” he said.
 
 Meanwhile, Dr  , a veterinarian, stated that the concept of petting was non-existent in India and that dogs were purely used for hunting purposes for a long time. “Petting is a practice we adopted from the British. When we saw them domesticating dogs, which they had brought along, a notion that only those dogs are friendlier gained currency,” he claimed. 
 
 “But most of the foreign dogs, known for their vigilance skills, are no match for the native breeds like Rajapalayam and Kanni,” added Sankar. Sree Balaji, who owns a breeding centre near Bodi, stated that the awareness towards native dogs increased after the 2017 pro-jallikattu protests. “But a few are still hesitant to adopt native breeds purely due to one reason – that they are not visually attractive,” he said. 
 
 But, on the other hand, he said that those who own estates and agricultural lands are increasingly getting native dogs. “It’s because one Kanni can guard an entire property as it has no fear whatsoever,” he said. Balaji said that the price of most native dogs started from Rs 3,000/- 
 
 
