KOLKATA: An NGO in Kolkata dedicated to the welfare of stray animals has lodged a police complaint against the principal of Lady Brabourne College for indulging in “cruelty to animals”. The complaint came in response to a recent notice put up at the college gates imposing afine of Rs 2,000 on any student or staffer found feeding strays on campus.

 The notice, dated February 1 and undersigned by college principal Seuli Sarkar, has become viral on social media and has been criticized by students, teachers and activists, especially after a second-year student and a non-teaching staffer were forced to pay the fine last week.
 
 “This is gross violation of animal rights. The court has time and again held that feeding strays is a social service. Harassing those who feed and care for them is a violation of the law. People who are threatening those who feed strays can be held liable for having committed offenses described in the IPC for criminal intimidation. It is also against article 51A (g) of the Indian Constitution (to protect and improve the natural environment and wildlife),” said Prasenjit Dutta, treasurer of   (PAWS) and honorary member of Animal Welfare Board of India. Apart from the complaint lodged at Beniapukur  ,   said they have even forwarded a letter, along with a copy of the notice, to the office of Union home minister Maneka Gandhi, an animal rights activist and chairperson of People for Animals.
 
 Faced by strong criticism, as well as the initiation of a police probe, the college authorities on Wednesday removed the notice and altered their earlier order.
 
 “We have partially modified the earlier order. Now anyone violating the order will have to face a disciplinary committee of college teachers. The members will decide on the punitive measures as well as the nature and amount of fine after deliberations,” said Sarkar.
 
 The initial order read: “In order to maintain a healthy environment in the  , feeding of dogs within the college premises is being strictly prohibited. Any teaching/ non teaching staff or student found doing the same will be required to pay a fine of Rs. 2,000.” Sarkar added the college authorities have also lodged a police complaint two days back about how several teachers, students and guardians of students have been bit, chased and harassed by the strays over the past few months.
 
 An officer acknowledged they have received complaints from both sides. “We have received two different complaints and have started a probe. It is a sensitive matter and we are working accordingly,” he said.
 
