JAIPUR: ‘Celebrate examinations like festivals,’ one among the several punch lines in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s ‘Exam Warriors’ is set to motivate 45 lakh students of government schools in Rajasthan. The book with 25 Mantras (chapters) will be introduced in nearly 14,000 secondary and senior secondary government schools.

 Rajasthan is the first to introduce the recently launched book. In the first phase, a total of 5,000 books have been purchased while in the second phase books for the rest schools will be covered. The per unit cost of the book is Rs 61, paid under the levy fund of state education department. The 208 page book will be kept in library.
 
 Explaining the reason behind introducing the book, Vasudev  , state education minister, said “The book is made for the holistic development of students. It is a handbook for students, teachers and parents collectively helping students to counter stress and enhancing the creative side. Since the book was launched the department was getting request to introduce it in schools.” 
 
 The minister said he had gone through the book in the second week of February. “I find all mantras interlinked and revolving around encouraging students to study, play, revise, laugh and take breaks during exams for a stress free mind. Some chapters like be a warrior, not a worrier! Exams test your current preparation, not you, laugh in, laugh out,” he said.
 
 The department will issue a direction to the schools to make it compulsory for the teachers to read it and share the excerpts with the parents during parent-teacher meeting. “Some chapters in the book gives a strong message to parents unnecessarily pressurize their children,” said Devnani, who also wants teachers to follow the physical and creative exercises listed in the books. 
 
 The minister claimed that readers are encouraged to write their thoughts and resolutions in the end of every chapter. The minister has asked the headmasters to order the books using school funds for the preparing students to appear in the exam stress free. 
 
 Replying to a question as why students will read this book? The minister boast that PM Modi popularity among students or youth has no parallel in the country. "His   dedicated to exams from the past three years has been has motivating students to remain stress free and deliver the best," said the minister. Devnani has introduced books like Gita and those on BJP founder Deendayal Upadhyaya in the school libraries. 
 
 
