NEW DELHI: The   of three men in the   exam   case is just the tip of the iceberg, sources said. Police are likely to bust three more modules in which a few CBSE officials could be involved.

 The investigators are now focusing on tracking down the   that leaked the papers a day before the exam. Till now, police have established a chain of over 50 people who were the recipients or senders of papers on WhatsApp. The module that leaked the maths paper is still at large.
 
 In the current case involving the leak of the Class XII   paper, the principal of Mother Khazani School in Bawana and the CBSE’s observer are under the scanner, police have confirmed. The papers are kept in the custody of the principal till the students are seated in the exam hall. 
 
 The paper carriers and printers are also on the radar. Police have found that the papers of classes X and XII were printed at different places. That chain is being analysed to get to the source of leaks, officers said.
 
 Sources said the papers were leaked in two ways, one in handwritten form — where the questions were noted down and circulated — and the other by clicking pictures. These were executed by separate modules. This is why Delhi Police has filed two FIRs and formed two teams to probe them.
 
 It will not be easy for police to nab the kingpin of the racket as he may not be directly involved, sources added. Police have spoken to several CBSE officials and also interacted with the board chief for details of the hierarchy in the organisation.
 
 Police had questioned the principal on Saturday and have asked him to join the probe again on Monday.
 
 Tauqeer was a part of six of the 10 groups in which the paper was leaked, the probe has revealed. 
 
 Cops had contacted all the participants of the group who had posted the photographs of the paper and zeroed in on one of the students who revealed the source to be Tauqeer.
 
 When cops contacted Tauqeer, he first posed as a family member of a student but later confessed to having leaked the paper through Rohit and Rishabh. He told police that Rohit and Rishabh were his friends from Delhi University and had connived with him to leak the paper to get a promotion in their school.
 
 
 
