NAGPUR: Even as the Centre plans to bolster border infrastructure, particularly along the Indo-China border, Geological Survey of India ( ) has geared up to provide all technical backing for the construction of a very high altitude railroad, expected to be a game-changer for the  .

 Northern   has already started work on the second phase detailed project report (DPR) for the 465.13km-long Beri-Bilaspur-Manali-Leh broad gauge rail project, estimated to cost Rs 1 lakh crore, passing through two Himalayan states of Himachal Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir.
 
 “Nowhere in the world there is a railway track at such an altitude with difficult terrain, slopes and passes. Hence, this project is both difficult and prestigious for the GSI,” said N Kutumba Rao, GSI director general. He was in the city for a daylong workshop on landslides assessment at the central region GSI office.
 
 Sanjeev Kumar, director, engineering geology division, GSI Chandigarh, who too was in the city for the workshop, told TOI that the GSI would be using all possible innovations and techniques to make this railroad technically best track. The GSI has signed a memorandum of understanding with Northern Railway in October 2016 for providing geo-technical consultancy for the project to RITES, the implementing agency for the project.
 
 The project DPR costing Rs 157.86 crore is being prepared in three phases. It is expected to be completed by March 2020. The project, after its launch, may take nothing less than 10 years or so. Kumar says the GSI will prepare traverse maps for accessible areas and will extrapolate the data where it is not possible to reach geo-technically.
 
 “There are permafrost areas (where ground remains permanently frozen for at least two years). There are also flash flood prone areas. This is unique area as it is the youngest mountain range in the world. It needs to be thoroughly studied and understood before deciding on setting up any structure here,” said Kumar.
 
 The altitude in the total stretch to be tracked ranges from 500 meters to 5,360 meters at different places. There are five passes on the stretch and 50% of the stretch would require tunnelling work. 
 
 Kumar tells that a 27km patch on the stretch has severe variations in strata and has various weak zones in between. All this needs to be part of the geo-technical study, he said
 
 In the first phase, the GSI had suggested major alignment changes during the team’s visit in June and September last year. These changes were incorporated in the first phase of DPR.
 
 Now, based on other detailed studies of the terrain and strata, more suggestions will be made in the second phase.
 
 
