RAIPUR: At the tender teenage when they are most vulnerable for getting recruited in  , over 50 children in one of the worst Naxal-affected belt of   in Bastar division look forward to attend free special classes and wait for   personnel (CRPF) to return from combing operations. 

 Hardly few metres away from 'Khooni Road' (Bloody Road) of Gangaloor and Bijapur, the 85th battalion of CRPF 'heroes' are giving hope to these children for literate future, putting aside the fear of being forced to join Bal Sangham of Maoists or leave the native place to work as labourers. Students have also been provided with stationary, computers and projectors in schools to access all possibilities. 
 
 All of this, at a stretch of 27 kilometres road from   has witnessed martyrdom of 175 security personnel. In fact, it’s the same place that witnessed deadliest blast on anti-landmine vehicle that killed 24 CRPF men in 2005. 
 
 
 Speaking to TOI, commandant Sudheer Kumar said, “Their 'Sunshine hours' under the shed of tree, depends upon the availability of personnel and usually stretches up to one to two hours for about five-six days a week. We have one company commander Avinash Rai who has done BEd and asked him to teach the children. After I joined here in July in 2016, I found these children to be are extremely talented and intelligent suffering lack of resources, who just need to be shown a way.”
 
 As Cherpal region being a hub of education lacked desktops, I decided to provide them projectors and computers at schools first and asked teachers for other requirements. Getting stationary was another big requirement for them and CRPF provided it to more than 400 children in schools and in vicinity from the Civic Action Funds, Kumar said adding that toppers and efficient children were mainly focussed upon.
 
 “Realizing that there was much more needed to make them competitive and develop their personality, CRPF set up a balck board and benches under the tree in front of Cherpal camp. It was a delightful sight when children (including girls) eventually started chipping in and reached up to 45-50 till today and 20 at Gangaloor class. Right from Physics, Chemistry, English they are taught to communicate confidently and participate in debates. They enjoy watching inspirational films on projector which is a luxury for them,” the CRPF commandant said.
 
 All this is being made possible after children’s school and jawans’ Naxal operations. Further plans for Class XII students are to provide them skill development training and career counselling. 
 
 Major challenge here is that teachers in Palnar region-a highly insurgent zone- are on backfoot and Maoists often disturb the education and force children not to attend our classes. Children when asked about their career option desire to be teacher or doctor and dominate Reds by serving in Bastar only. 
 
 In an attempt to  , teens in large number become victims to human trafficking and are sent to other parts of country, mainly south India to work in bore-well companies or construction work. Else, they give up studies to mandatorily hold guns. 
 
