CHANDIGARH: Punjab chief minister   and finance minister Manpreet Singh Badal on Thursday said the   was disappointing for the state as it failed to address issues raised by Punjab at the pre-Budget meeting and announce any relief for farmers.

 The chief minister said no announcement was made in the   on the farm loan waiver and it also failed to implement the   committee report, ignoring distress of Punjab farmers. He added that the central government should implement the report of Niti Aayog member   on the issue. He also criticised the central government’s failure to accede to states’ request to change the funding pattern of the centrally sponsored schemes to 90:10 from the present 60:40.
 
 The chief minister also said there had been no announcement in the Budget for any new railway line for the state. He added that it was ironical that the Union finance minister put an additional burden of 1% on the salaried class by increasing education cess from 3% to 4%.
 
 While addressing mediapersons, Manpreet termed the Budget as ‘jumlebazi’. He said increase of budget on food processing from Rs 700 crore to Rs 1,400 crore is nothing for a country like India, that is mainly dependent on agriculture. He added that the biggest setback for states was reduction of basic excise duty on petrol and diesel by Rs 2 per litre in which the state has a 42% share. “While prices of petrol and diesel have not been reduced, an additional or special excise duty has been increased,” he added. Manpreet that this would result in Punjab suffering between Rs 700 crore to Rs 1,000 crore losses a year and all states a collective loss of around Rs 15,000-Rs 20,000 crore.
 
 Reacting to the promise of 50% payment over the cost of production to farmers, the finance minister said the main question was how the cost of production would be calculated. “Devil is in calculation of the cost of production. They will keep it low. I fear ‘jumlabazi’ in that also,” said Badal. Raising questions on central government’s claims, he said unless agriculture economy grows at 12% every year, farmers’ income could not be doubled by 2022. Commenting on the increase of cess on customs duty, Manpreet said it would result in increasing inflation. “There has been a shortfall in revenue projections announced by the Union finance minister last year,” he maintained.
 
 He also told the media that nothing had been announced regarding the border area development demands raised by the state government. Badal said farmers’ distress was the main focus this year but for a country of the size of India, Rs 5,000 crore for farm productivity is minuscule and this amount is not for farmers. “There should have been a 3%-4% IT cess for farmers,” he added. However, he said being a state finance minister himself he understands that it has been a tight rope walk for the finance minister as resources are less. He added that maize and sunflower are very good for diversification in Punjab if they provide MSP. To a question on the increase of salaries of President, Vice-President, governors and MPs, the state finance minister replied, “I wish they had not done that.” Asked about the main focus of Punjab’s next budget, Manpreet replied that it would be on controlling expenditure and not to spend more than income.
 
 
