MUMBAI: On Sunday night, a car stopped on a road at  ,   playing a game of rubber-ball cricket under the streetlights with a traffic barricade as a substitute for stumps. Out stepped an ex-Mumbai cricketer Atul Ranade and asked the boys, smilingly, in Marathi, “There’s a player of ours here. Please give him a couple of balls to play.”

 Before they could reply, Sachin Tendulkar—who’s played a bit of cricket—had emerged from the car, made his way towards the stumps and requested for the bat, saying, “Chaalel? (Is it ok?)” One of the boys touched his feet, and Tendulkar too allowed the boys to settle down by shaking hands with them before he took guard and played a few deliveries. The wicket-keeper clicked pictures as Sachin tapped each ball on the on-side on to a Metro construction site barrier, careful not to hit anything towards the moving traffic on the off.
 
 
 While batting, he once, in the spirit of genuine gully cricket, picked up the ball himself and returned it to the bowler and carried on a conversation with the boys throughout, asking at one point, again in Marathi, “Catch pakadnar kai? Kon pakadnar catch? (Anyone of you will take a catch? Who?)” The young men told him they were waiters at a nearby restaurant and had just wrapped up a long Sunday’s work to take some time out for a game.
 
 “They were pleasantly surprised. It was an impromptu thing and a sweet gesture from Sachin. We were returning after dinner at a BKC restaurant when we saw this bunch playing, and Sachin just wanted to go out there and have fun,” Ranade, his good friend, said.
 
 After Sachin’s one-time batting partner   —they once had a smallish partnership playing for their school—tweeted the video, it went viral on social media on Tuesday. Tendulkar was unavailable for comment on Tuesday because of the IPL match between   and Royal Challengers Bangalore (RCB) at Wankhede stadium.
 
 So how did the game unfold? Well, as the batting and chatting were on, cars driving by soon began to take note of mobile cameras flashing vigorously. Once it was known who the batsman was, cars halted immediately one behind the other, and fans demanded their selfie time with the man. “He happily obliged all of them before leaving. And he’s really happy those boys had fun,” Ranade said.
 
 The video featuring Tendulkar went viral on Tuesday
 
 
