TUTICORIN: A day after the controversial Sterlite smelter copper unit in   was sealed by the district administration based on a government order, governor   visited the families of the deceased as well as injured victims of police firing during the protest march on May 22. With their chief demand to permanently close the Sterlite unit being met, those who were injured in the firing and lathi charge urged the governor to pressure the state government to withdraw all cases lodged against the protesters in Tuticorin police stations.

 
 The governor, accompanied by his additional chief secretary  , reached Tuticorin airport around 10.30 am and discussed about the properties damaged during the protests and the law and order situation in the port town with additional chief secretary P W C Davidar, district collector Sandeep Nanduri and superintendent of police Murali Rambha. \
 
 After the meeting, the governor visited the family members of P  , 42, at   who died of injuries sustained in the police firing. Subsequently, he visited the other injured victims admitted to Tuticorin GH and their family members who reiterated their demand to withdraw all the cases lodged against anti-Sterlite protesters. “The governor inquired whether we are satisfied with the treatment provided in the hospital. We urged him to convey to the government and pressure it to withdraw all cases against the anti-Sterlite protesters as well as not initiate fresh legal actions and cases against the injured victims once they are discharged,” S Tamilarasi, a relative of an injured victim, said.
 
 The governor skipped meeting with reporters after his hospital visit and left for Tuticorin government circuit house where representatives of Terespuram fishermen association and Tuticorin-Tirunelveli Fishermen Association members coming under 20 hamlets met him. “Terespuram fishing hamlet is situated far away from the district collectorate, the epicentre of the anti-Sterlite protest on May 22. What was the need for police to open fire in the hamlet which resulted in the killing of Jhansi who was in no way associated with any protests? We shared similar such grievances with the governor,” R Walkans, a fisherman from Kootapuli, told TOI.
 
 After receiving the petitions, the governor visited the families of some of those who died in the firing including J Anthony Selvaraj in Krishnarajapuram and S Maniraj in   before leaving for Chennai. He however skipped visiting the families of protesters at Terespuram, Fathima Nagar and Madhakoil, considered as sensitive hamlets. 
 
 The kith and kin of the deceased victims have appealed to the governor to prevail on the state government to establish a memorial for the 13 people who lost their lives in the protest. The relatives suggested VVD signal as the appropriate place for the memorial from where the anti-Sterlite protesters were lathicharged. As was the case with deputy chief minister O Panneerselvam's visit on Monday, entry for reporters and lensmen were denied by the police for covering the interaction between governor Banwarilal Purohit and injured victims. 
 
 
