NEW DELHI: Four days ago, 26-year-old   told his family that he was going to Lansdowne in Uttarakhand for a short vacation and would return by Monday. He didn’t take his wife along as he was supposedly going with friends. 

 On Sunday morning, his sister heard his name being mentioned on a news bulletin as one of the three people arrested by Crime Branch for leaking  .
 
 “Why would he spoil his career by doing such a crime?” Tauqeer’s elder sister asked while speaking to TOI at their house in A-block of Bawana JJ Colony. His 70-year-old mother, who recently underwent surgery after suffering a heart attack, hasn’t been told the reason why her son is in the police net.
 
 Abdul Wasim (57), a local shopkeeper, swore that Tauqeer would never be involved in such a crime. “He is one of the few literate people in the area. He is a polite boy. He has been tutoring the local kids as well. There might be a conspiracy behind this,” he added.
 
 A Delhi University graduate, Tauqeer was preparing for competitive exams to get a good job as the meagre pay of Rs 250 per student at Easy Classes coaching centre was insufficient to support his family comprising five sisters, a wife and an ailing mother. He is the sole breadwinner. Despite pressure from family members, Tauqeer had refused to have a child after five years of his marriage due to his low income.
 
 Similar views were shared at the coaching institute which is located around 5km from the JJ Colony and caters to around 200 students from classes IX to XII. After finding the institute’s name being flashed on TV, the owner, Vikas Tiwari, tried contacting Tauqeer but no one responded.
 
 “He was in the first batch of the coaching institute in 2006. He was a bright student and studied here in classes XI and XII. Two years ago, he returned as a teacher,” said Tiwari, who started the institute after retiring from the Air Force.
 
 Tiwari was clueless as to why Tauqeer would leak the   paper when he didn’t teach anyone the subject. “The leaked mathematics paper was for Class X, but he taught the subject to students of classes XI and XII. Why would anyone leak the paper of a subject that has no link with him?” he asked. Tauqeer and Rishabh Antil, who is also in the custody of Crime Branch, became friends when they were students at the institute. Antil, a resident of Asthal Colony in Bawana, completed his BTech and got a job as a physics teacher in Mother Khazani Convent School in Mungeshpur village of Bawana.
 
 Neighbours first refused to confirm if Antil lived there, but later said the family had moved elsewhere two weeks ago. They feigned ignorance when asked about the man’s involvement in the paper leak.
 
