MOHALI: Long and erratic power cuts witnessed by   residents in the last many weeks have only made them miserable. As of now there is no telling as to by when the situation would get better. Moreover, these power cuts are being witnessed at a time when the season has already started to reach its peak.

 
 While residents of some societies were seen complaining about long and erratic electricity outages, others said power fluctuations and low voltage increased their problems further. Meanwhile, residents were also seen having issues with   officials, who did not respond to their calls.
 
 Residents of   2, Ananta Homes, Mona Green 2, Arrow homes, Chandigarh Enclave and other housing societies said that they had faced 12 hours of power breakdown on Monday. “The lights went out at 9pm on Monday and returned on Tuesday at 9am.
 
 The officials of the power department, however, said that there was no major power shutdown. There were problems in some areas but the same were resolved quickly.
 
 “There was a 12-hour power cut that started Monday night and ended Tuesday morning; and it did not even rain,” said Manoj Das, general secretary of Confederation of Resident Welfare Association Zirakpur north
 
 “The engineers at the power department were not picking our calls. It seemed that we were living in dark ages,” he said and added that the PSPCL officials failed to detect the problem on time.
 
 Overloaded power is also the main cause of regular power cut. God bless the residents of Zirakpur. Despite regular increases in power bills, infrastructure remains flawed,” Das added.
 
  (39), a resident of Savitry Greens 2, said, “Power cuts here are unscheduled and frequent. To add to the worries of the resident, there are no dedicated phone lines on which the complaints and queries can be answered.”
 
 “Also, there is a dearth of linemen, who repair or restore power supplies,” She added.
 
 “The PSPCL claims to have surplus power. It even sells electricity to other states. The irony is that it fails to cater to its real stakeholders,” She said.
 
 Meanwhile, refuting the claims, executive engineer N S Rangi said that there were no major power cuts in the area. “Some areas received outages due to bad weather, but we resolved the issues.”
 
 
