MYSURU: Pedestrians in the city are facing a tough time as most areas in the city either lack footpaths or they have been occupied by pushcarts and hawkers.

 Some footpaths have also been occupied by autorickshaw stands, forcing pedestrians to walk on the road. The footpath near Hotel Metropole on Field Marshal Cariappa Circle is unscientifically paved, which forces pedestrians to walk on the road before hopping on to the footpath.
 
 A large portion of Irwin Road, between Jamiya Masjid and the Government Library, has no footpath at all.
 
 Swathi G, a student of Maharani’s College is forced to walk on the road till Hotel Metropole as the footpath is elevated, making it difficult to climb. “I am left with no other option, but to walk on the road to cross over to the Metropole side as the footpath is unevenly elevated.”
 
 Pointing out that a water line and valve on the footpath near Hotel Metropole are the reasons behind the elevation, Jaydev Prakash of Mysore Grahakara Parishat (MGP) said, “With the presence of a water line and a valve, the city corporation or the traffic personnel cannot do much to address the problem. However, they could reduce the height of the footpath or carve steps to make it accessible to pedestrians.”
 
 “Similarly, in the case of Irwin Road, authorities resort to the same old ‘road expansion’ explanation. Footpaths in the central business district have become victims of development and expansion. Pedestrians should be a priority,” he added.
 
 Stating that a scientific study of the traffic problem is the need of the hour, he said, “Footpaths are being used as an auto stand near railway station. None of the officials concerned are bothered about addressing the issue. The MGP has taken up a scientific study of traffic woes in the city to seek answers to the various problems faced by the public.”
 
 Assuring to provide a solution to the woes of pedestrians, DCP (Traffic) Vikram Amathe told TOI, “I will arrive at a solution and take up the issue with the   as this comes under their purview. If the pictures are sent to me on WhatsApp by TOI, I will be able to gauge the situation in a better way.”
 
 
