PUNE: Property owners affected by   flyover have not received compensation with less than a month left for the March 15 deadline to end.

 Nitin Gadkari, Union minister for road transport and highways, had launched the project with much fanfare in August 2017, claiming that it will solve long-pending traffic problem in the area.
 
 Over Rs 400 crore will be spent on the project being implemented by   (NHAI) in association with   ( ).
 
 The civic administration has carried out a survey of properties in Kothurd and Bavdhan which will have to be demolished to construct service roads and bridges. Along with residential complexes, bungalows and commercial establishments will have to be razed.
 
 Some open plots too will be acquired. Markings for demolitions have been done on the ground. Over 100 families living near the proposed Chandni chowk flyover will suffer directly or indirectly because of the demolition.
 
 “Both open land owners as well as those who have built properties will have to be compensated before the project takes off. Some people have agreed to accept compensation based on floor space index or transfer of development right. But some have demanded cash,” said the sources in PMC.
 
 They added that the civic body has not disbursed compensation either in cash or kind to the affected people.
 
 According Satish Kullkarni, head of PMC’s building and establishment department, process to seek possession of land or properties is underway. “We will release compensation once we get possession of these properties. Paperwork for the same is being carried out,” he said.
 
 Kulkarni said that they are trying to speed up work. The civic administration will try to finish it by February end. “Our aim is to complete the process as soon as possible,” he said.
 
 Nearly Rs 80 crore will have to be paid to those who will lose their properties.
 
 “Citizens are positive about the project. We have to complete the work before March 15. But the civic administration is not making enough efforts to speed up the process,” said Medha Kulkarni, MLA of Kothrud constituency.
 
 She said that the civic administration should make efforts so that work on the flyover can be started soon. Earlier, the deadline was December 2017 but we have stretched it to March. More delay will cause harm than good to the project.
 
 Chandni Chowk is a major entry point on NH-4 to the western part of the city and nearly 1.6 lakh vehicles pass through this junction every day. It is also a crucial junction — traffic from  , Pashan, Kothrud, Mulshi converge here before going in different directions.
 
 As a result, traffic snarls are a regular feature at the chowk. Growth in surrounding areas has also contributed to perennial traffic congestion.
 
 
