NAGPUR: Civic agency   ( ) will build a jogging and cycling track along VIP Road (East High Court Road) in Dharampeth at the cost of Rs9.47 crore. It will come up on land belonging to Dr Panjabrao Deshmukh Krishi Vidyapeeth (PDKV). Even though final nod from PDKV is awaited, urban development ministry has sanctioned Rs5.47 crore for the project. It will also need clearance of heritage committee as the land is a heritage precinct.

 DD  , NMC executive engineer, told TOI jogging and cycling tracks will be 1,200-metre long and 3-metre wide. “They will be L-shaped tracks with one arm along VIP Road and another along Vanamati boundary. A 630-metre long walking lane, 2-metre wide, will also be constructed,” he said.
 
 According to Jambhulkar, a parking slot having an area of 8,500 square metres will be developed opposite Institution of Engineers Metro station for the users of the tracks. “It can also be used by commuters using Metro station,” he said.
 
 NMC is yet to decide whether to charge user fee from citizens. 
 
 “After we get no objection certificate (NOC) from PDKV, we will submit the proposal to heritage committee. We do not envisage any problem as we are not building any big structure on the land. Only a few pagodas and parabolas will be built and a few benches installed for tired walkers and cyclists. Some toilets will also be built. We will embellish the tracks with some structures,” he further said. A decorative wall will be built along VIP Road. Tenders will floated after heritage committee gives its nod.
 
 Guardian minister Chandrashekhar Bawankule had directed NMC to prepare the detailed project report (DPR) last year. It was submitted to urban development ministry for approval, which sanctioned the required amount from special grants.
 
 NMC will not acquire land for the project as the ownership will remain with the university. Initially, NMC needed a larger area for the project but PDKV officials asked them to prune the requirement to the minimum. 
 
 Jambhulkar further said as the jogging and cycling tracks were located in the centre of the city, they will attract a large number of fitness enthusiasts. “We don’t have this kind of designated tracks in the city,” he added.
 
 
