A National School of Drama graduate,   is one of those few   actors, who dabbles in theatre, films and television with aplomb. However, he confesses that   will always be his first love. During his recent visit to Nagpur, actor spoke to us about Marathi theatre, Nagpur and more… 
In the city for his Marathi play, Amar Photo Studio, Suvrat says, “It is good to see the Metro Rail project going on full swing in Nagpur. But, what I really liked about the city is there are quite a few good places for the youngsters to eat. I along with my play team did explore some of them,” says he, adding, “Sadly, when our Marathi plays get staged here, fewer audiences come to watch them; I hope the number increases in future. There are a lot of expenses involved in bringing the plays from Mumbai. So, we expect a profitable outcome.”
 Speaking about the other challenges that Marathi theatre is facing currently, he says, “The biggest threat to Marathi theatre today is that it is not being able to cope up with the modern trends be it in terms of content, acting style, aesthetics, infrastructure etc. We are also lagging behind due to poor marketing. These are the areas where Marathi theatre really needs to reinvent itself. Marathi theatre is growing, but at a slow pace. Having said this, there are many artistes, who are working towards improving this situation. We have also tried to do a few experiments through Amar Photo Studio.” 
 Another serious concern pertaining to theatre that many Marathi artistes have expressed in past is the deplorable condition of the theatre auditoriums. On this, he says, “Yes, it is true that auditoriums in some of the cities in Maharashtra are not up to the mark but we also have quite a few halls that are in good condition. Chandrapur and Amravati have such amazing auditoriums. Even Nagpur has good auditoriums. We fail to realise that it is not just government’s responsibility but also audience’s to keep the theatre venues clean. It’s high time we portray a balanced picture.”
 Suvrat has recently turned a   for a reality show, Dance Maharashtra Dance. Quite thrilled to take up this new challenge, he says, “As a host, I have to be spontaneous and be there as a friend to the performers. Also, through this show, I got to know various folk dances of Maharashtra. So, I’m loving this new role. Apart from this, I’m waiting for my three Marathi films to release this year.” 
 
 
  
 
