Kanyakumari: The scorching sun and rough sea did not deter the spirits of the thousands of people of the coastal hamlets and inland areas across the district from participating in the protest organised at Mukilankudiruppu near Kanyakumari on Saturday against the proposed multi-crore International Container Transhipment Terminal (ICTT). Despite the cancellation of permission to stage the protest that was initially planned near the district collectorate, the protesters gathered in large numbers from all the 40 coastal fishing hamlets and around 60 inland villages.  They started assembling at Mukilankudiruppu around 9.30 am, where the port is planned to be established. While villagers were gathering on the shore, fishermen gathered in the sea on hundreds of country boats and fibre boats.  Black flags were tied to houses and erected along the shore as well.  The protesters raised slogans against Kanyakumari MP Pon Radhakrishnan and Prime Minister Narendra Modi. They said that the MP, who is also the minister for shipping and ports, is trying to establish the ICTT at an outlay ofRs 19,884 crore against the interest of the people of the district.  They said the port would completely affect the livelihood of the nearly 1.2 lakh fishermen and their families from Arockiapuram to Neerody. They also said that it will also affect the agriculture and the drinking water sources of people in addition to destroying the unique environment of the coastal district on the southernmost tip of the country.  Two of the main coordinators of the protests, R S Parthasarathy and bishop of Kottar Diocese Rt Rev Nazarene Soosai, were among those who took part in the protest. Retired civil servant M G Devasahayam, who has been strongly opposing the ICTT, said that the protest organised amidst stiff pressure from the Centre has proved that the people of this district would not allow such a project, which will affect their livelihood. “We will not allow a stone to be laid for the proposed port,” he added. Around 1,800 policemen and officers led by the deputy inspector general of police, Tirunelveli Range, Kapil Kumar Saratkar led the security arrangements for ensuring maintenance of law and order.  The protests concluded around 12.15 pm. No untoward incidents were reported during the protest. 