 BUDRUK: Villagers of Vadhu on Wednesday said they had settled the disputes between the two communities over the damage to the samadhi of Govind Gopal Mahar ( ) on December 29 itself even before the Koregaon Bhima violence on January 1.

 Govind Gopal is said to have performed the last rites of   after he was killed by   Emperor Aurangzeb in 1689. Local villagers, on the other hand, said their ancestors had performed the last rites of Sambhaji Maharaj.
 
 On December 29, some villagers, including members of the gram panchayat removed a board purportedly installed by the dalits stating that Govind Gopal performed the last rites of Sambhaji Maharaj defying Aurangazeb’s orders, because permission of the gram panchayat was not taken. 
 
 The villagers said they settled the dispute the same day but unfortunately the message did not reach other places and villages and led to subsequent tension between the two communities.
 
 On Wednesday, they categorically stated that their dispute has no connection with the Koregaon Bhima violence. They demanded that the Union government bring all citizens on a single platform to end disputes based on community.
 
 “Our people, including the dalits, who are staying within the village periphery in small numbers, live a peaceful life. Suddenly, this incident (the violence) has cropped up and the village’s name is in the news,” local villager Ramakant   said.
 
 “We had a meeting in the village which was attended by the dalits and police officers. All our disputes have been resolved. We don’t want to fight, we want peace. We don’t want outsiders in the village interrupting the tranquillity,” Shivale said.
 
 “If they (dalits) have any proof about Govind Gopal, they should bring it to our attention. Villagers will help them construct a big samadhi,” he said.
 
 Another villager, Santosh Shivale, said in the last three days the village has become a centre of controversies. “We do not want community issues to disturb the peace. Now, the government must take steps to end such differences between communities,” he said.
 
 A dalit youth, on the condition of anonymity, told TOI, “Let the village issues remain in the confines of the village. We have resolved our issues. We are collecting documentary evidence to prove our claim as decided in the meeting. If it is satisfactory, we will be allowed to construct a full-fledged samadhi,” he said.
 
 Superintendent of police, Pune rural,   told TOI that the villagers have resolved their issues at the village level. “There was tension in the village but now the disputes stand resolved. Tranquillity has returned to the village,” he said.
 
 The villagers also said they will resolve their differences at their level henceforth. “We have requested people from different communities living in the village not to listen to people from other places,” they added.
 
 
