BENGALURU: Three of the five   whose organs were donated by their families in January this year were earlier sent back from National Institute of Mental Health & Neuro Sciences (Nimhans) owing to shortage of ventilators. Eventually, they were taken to other private hospitals where they were declared brain dead, paving the way for donation of their organs.

 The government-run Nimhans, deemed the ‘institute of national importance', has 35 ventilators but gets a minimum 60 patients at its emergency ward every day. The shortage of ventilators at Nimhans, the go-to place in cases of any brain condition, and also it’s lack of licence to harvest organs have emerged as hurdles in promoting cadaver organ donation.
 
 “We can’t admit all patients. Only those who require surgery are admitted. However, most patients who are brought to our emergency block are evaluated through CT scan to analyse their condition. We are basically a mental health and neuro centre,” Nimhans director B N Gangadhar said.
 
 He stressed the need to increase ventilators in all government hospitals including Nimhans. “We have to reserve our ventilators for patients who are undergoing surgery. Each ventilator needs 5-6 staff who take care of the patient 24/7,” he pointed out.
 
 When asked about the cases of the three cadaver donation patients, he said: “The reason for sending them back need to be looked into, ventilator issue is just one reason though. We want the public to optimally use Nimhans.”
 
 Jeeva Sarthakathe, the government unit that coordinates cadaver organ donations and transplants, confirmed that the three patients had been turned away by Nimhans. “If there is shortage of ventilators and if the patient is potentially brain dead, Nimhans can alert Jeeva Sarthakathe. We can send such patients to hospitals that have licence for organ transplant. We can follow a rota system in allocating patients to different hospitals. The institute has many counsellors who can do grief counselling for the patients’ family,” said Kishore Phadke, convenor, Jeeva Sarthakathe.
 
 “It’s been an issue we’re dealing with. Nimhans gets the highest number of potential brain-dead cases but it doesn’t have the   The organs of such patients also suffer in quality when they are made to run from one hospital to another,” a senior doctor said.
 
 T S Prabhakar, joint director (medical), Karnataka health and family welfare department, said the state government has no administrative control over Nimhans which is an autonomous hospital under the Centre.
 
 “We’re preparing a proposal to consider Nimhans as an organ retrieval hospital. We’re aware of these issues,” he added.
 
 
  
 
