PUNE: Experts have blamed the PMC’s   (ABC) programme in managing the stray dog population in the city, mainly due to its measly sterilization budget and lack of infrastructure.

 The budget for the programme was just Rs 72 lakh in 2017-18. “Uttarakhand, which allocated Rs 2 crore annually for a similar programme, achieved 100% sterilization of stray dog population recently. The current ABC budget of   will target only 25% of the reproducing canine population,” animal welfare experts said.
 
 Neha Panchamiya, president, RESQ Charitable Trust, said, “PMC needs to conduct a ‘Dog Census’ to determine the stray dog population in the city and plan its ABC programme accordingly. We have approached the PMC health department for manpower support to conduct the census. Their reply has been affirmative. They could help with the census around May this year.”
 
 An animal welfare activist said at least one lakh dogs or more will have to be sterilized annually to manage the dog population in the city. “However, this is impossible with the paltry sterilization budget of Rs 70 lakh per year. The ABC budget should at least be over Rs 2 crore. Not just the budget, the PMC’s infrastructure like sterilization centres are also not up to the mark. Only two centres — the PMC pound and   — are available for sterilization of dogs in the city,” he said.
 
 The activist said PMC’s ABC programme tender is renewed in August and the dog sterilization work goes on till March-end, which means that the programme continues for just six months. “This brings down the effectiveness of the programme. Besides, it does not cover the fringe areas like Holkarwadi, Katraj bypass, Mohammadwadi, among others,” she said.
 
 The   (AWBI) had earlier directed all the district collectors to implement the animal birth control programme in all the gram panchayats, which has not happened in the Pune district so far.
 
 The PMC’s budget to operate on one dog is approximately Rs 700, though the ideal sum per dog should be Rs 1,000-1,200, the experts said. 
 
 Animal welfare volunteer  , who is involved in PMC's sterilization programme, said, “There is no monitoring authority in the PMC pound to oversee the sterilization works. A person accountable for catching and release of stray animals is also absent at the pound currently.”
 
 A civic official said the budget for the ABC programme has been increased for the year 2018-19. “We are trying to modernize the programme, including privatization and having separate agencies to undertake various tasks. We have also proposed to extend the tender,” the official said.
 
 
