PATNA: Tourists visiting   can enjoy joy rides on a new and safer cabin-type ropeway at the historic Ratnagiri hills under Pant Wildlife Sanctuary from July.

 Senior officials of Bihar State Tourism Development Corporation (BSTDC) said the ongoing work on the state-of-the-art ropeway would be completed by June and it would be inaugurated in July.
 
 Rail India Technical and Economic Service (Rites), an agency of Indian Railways, is installing the ropeway as per a contract with BSTDC. The work on installation of ropeway started in September last year.
 
 “The work is progressing smoothly and it is targeted to be completed by June this year,” said Om Prakash Amberkar, chief engineer, BSTDC. 
 
 The new ropeway will be an alternative for existing chairlift ropeway at Ratnagiri hills. The existing chairlift ropeway, having 101 chairs and covering an alleviated height of over 1,000 feet, was gifted by the government of Japan around 40 years ago, soon after the establishment of Vishwa Shanti Stupa.
 
 The new detachable gondola ropeway is expected to be more comfortable than the existing chairlift ropeways. While the existing chairlifts continuously run from one station to another and people hop in and jump out at either stations, the new ropeway will have a detachable system. A detachable system means that the cabins will detach at both the stations for allowing people to get in and out, before it again starts the journey to the other end. Similar cabin ropeways are in place in Sikkim and Deoghar in Jharkhand.
 
 Chief minister Nitish Kumar had made the announcement for the new ropeway during the 42nd anniversary of the Vishwa Shanti Stupa situated atop Ratnagiri hills on October 25, 2011. Nitish has proposed to conserve the existing ropeway as heritage, while the new ropeway will be used in its place.
 
 The standing committee of the Bihar State Board for Wildlife gave its nod to the new ropeway on February 25, 2012. Later, the standing committee of National Board for Wildlife also cleared the proposal on August 13, 2014. Finally, the project was given an in-principle approval by the expert assessment committee of ministry of environment, forests and climate change on May 20, 2015.
 
 Each cabin under the new ropeway will accommodate four people. It will transport maximum 800 people in an hour depending upon the number of the trips. The ropeway will make one round between the lower and the upper base in 4.1 minutes. 
 
 
