Nagpur: Open manholes and unguarded pits, trenches on roads and footpaths are likely to cause miseries for citizens during monsoon. Such open manholes or unguarded pits and trenches can be found along every 500-1,000 metres stretch across the city.

 Last week, two four-wheelers got stuck in open manholes on   (CB) Road. There are over open 20 manholes on the stormwater drain line on the stretch between Kalpana Building Square and Kachipura Chowk. Some of these wide and deep manholes are on the footpath and on the area designated for Smart Parking project. 
 
 Banker  , whose was with his family when his car got stuck in one of the open manholes in front of Meditrina Hospital on Wednesday night, said, “All of us, of whom most were senior citizens, panicked after the front wheel got stuck. The car was damaged and pulled out after a long exercise,” he said.
 
 Shrivastav said such open manholes will turn into death traps during monsoon. “Waterlogging will make it hard to spot such manholes. Also, there are no street lights on the road, which will only aggravate the problem,” he said.
 
 Another car got stuck in one of the manholes on the same stretch a few days ago.
 
 The stretch from   to Bajaj Nagar Square, which has been concretized by   under cement concrete road project phase-I, was opened for traffic couple of months ago but the manholes are yet to be covered. 
 
 Open manholes can be spotted on completed and under construction cement roads under phase-I and II of the project and on footpaths. The road between Deekshabhoomi Square and RPTS Road, Rahate Colony Square and Mate Square etc are some of the best examples. 
 
 The problem plagues even old cement roads, IRDP roads and residential areas. Sahakar Nagar is one such area with several open manholes on stormwater drains and sewage lines.
 
 Despite a numbers of accidents, the   has continued to neglect unguarded pits and trenches dug up for various types of works like water supply, sewage, stormwater drains, power supply, optical fibre cables etc
 
 One of the pits on the road between Pratap Nagar Square and London Street Road has been left unguarded since a month. The 6-7 feet deep pit is causing trouble for motorists and pedestrians.
 
 An NMC official told TOI that inspection will be done and directives issued to contractors to ensure that manholes are covered and pits, trenches are guarded or restored before monsoon.
 
 
