 Sivan’s father H Sivan was an all-rounder instrumentalist. However, the Thiruvananthapuram-based AIR tablist’s biggest love was violin. He loved it for the universality of the music, but couldn’t learn much of it for the lack of teachers, while he was young. When he introduced his son to the instrument at the age of seven, one wonders whether he would have thought if Harikumar will travel the globe straddling the genres of Carnatic, Hindustani and Western on the fiddle with ease.

 “Violin remained my priority ever since and I started playing professionally, at the age of nine. I go where my violin takes me and exploring its universe still thrills me to no end,” says the 38-year-old Harikumar, who recently performed in Kochi.
 The disciple of L Subramaniyam and Chalakudy Narayanaswami in violin, and Ananthalakshmi Venkitaraman in Carnatic vocals, he is one of the few artistes from Kerala with such versatility and holds the distinction of having worked across the globe. From launching chartbuster international Western albums to accompanying those like   and Pandit Kishan Maharaj, his journey with violin in the last three decades can make anyone envious.
 
 Despite his exposure, humility laces everything Harikumar speaks about his vocation. “Vocal music has a barrier of language. When you sing a Malayalam or Tamil song, for instance, it’s mostly enjoyed by those who can understand the language and culture. However, when it’s presented via an instrument, it becomes universal. That space knows no barriers that obstruct our senses from enjoying music. As for me, I am enjoying all the genres that I play. But, I would say I am still a student,” states the artiste.
 
 Harikumar started working with AIR, New Delhi at a very young age and that's where he got introduced to Hindustani music and also to L Subramaniyam. “It’s very briefly that I got to train under him, but it upped my ambition to master the instrument, techniques and genres further,” Harikumar recalls, adding that he was in the capital city for four years.
 
 He left for the UK in 2006 after getting introduced to an organiser, who offered him an opportunity to teach Carnatic music, and in turn, learn Western violin. “That was yet another different world, but it was exciting. It’s while at London that I formed my band, Blue Fire.”
 
 Harikumar also went on to launch his first album Breathtaker, in which he tries many techniques of L Subramaniam, while in London. Alongside becoming a sought-after violinist in jazz and fusion music world, he also tried some adventure on the four-string instrument, when he played the seven-string and 11-string versions of it, for the first time ever. “A seven-string violin covers the whole orchestra range of violin, viola, cello and double bass. The more strings, the more difficult it is. But also an incomparable experience,” he explains. His latest album, with Sanjay Maroo, is London Eye.
 
 How easy is it being a violinist in this country? “Things are changing here, but still, there is this perception that violin is an accompanying instrument. Those like L Subramaniam have worked hard to change that and I hope things improve further, in the future. One thing is that we have very few dedicated young musicians, who master violin. It is basically a Western instrument and only if you learn its basic techniques right, can you implement them in Carnatic, classical music,” Harikumar says.
 
 Currently, he is busy planning an album based on the 72 mela kartha ragas of Carnatic music. “It will be an international project and I am hoping to include musicians from all over the world to take part in it. I guess I should be able to put everything together, max by the year 2020,” he signs off.
 Harikumar’s wife Mahalakshmi is a dancer. The couple has two children.
 
 
