Nagpur: Even as   administration is trying its best to suppress the contentious issue of 479 missing ballot papers of its Senate polls, NU Mass Communication Board’s former chairman   has lodged a complaint regarding the case at Sitabuldi police station. Terming it as a “big conspiracy” to rig the polls, he demanded a thorough probe, and cancellation of all elections for Senate, Academic Council and Board of Studies, held on November 25.

 TOI had exposed the issue on December 5, reporting how some voters, primarily NU teachers, allegedly took the ballot papers home, which led to huge discrepancy in their numbers. At that time, Mishra had lodged a complaint with vice chancellor SP Kane, requesting him to immediately lodge a complaint in this regard, as it was a serious breach of ‘Conduct of Election Rules, 1961’.
 
 In his complaint to the police, Mishra has named VC and registrar Puran Meshram as accused, for their failure to probe the missing ballots, and also not filing a police complaint in this regard.
 
 Meshram, who was returning officer for the polling process, termed Mishra’s complaint as a “bogus one”, filed with a view to malign NU’s image. He also questioned Mishra’s credentials in lodging the complaint, since he was neither a contestant nor a voter.
 
 “There is no truth in his complaint and the numbers he was quoting are totally wrong. We had constituted a panel to probe the reports of missing ballot papers in the media, immediately after the polls. It came to light that hardly three to four ballot papers were missing in some boxes when they were opened under tight security,” he told TOI.
 
 He said that if the number of ballots papers was more than those sent out, it would have raised suspicion. “But since there were fewer papers, it couldn’t be termed as rigging as described by the complainant. It’s normal for a couple of papers to go missing. We’ve made entire documentation ready in this regard after initial complaints. As and when cops enquire with us, we would provide them everything,” Meshram said.
 
 Quoting NU officials, TOI had reported that some voters had taken the ballots papers home instead of putting them into the boxes, thus trying to manipulate the system.
 
 When the issue cropped up the last time, Meshram had made a starling revelation that in polls related to teachers’ constituencies in Senate, AC and BOS, over 200 ballot papers were found completely blank. “Most of such blank papers were found in teachers elections, where there were a large number of voters, over 5,000. They cast their franchise to their known candidate while leaving other papers empty,” he said.
 
 
