Around 10 Gurgaon   got onto the stage on International Women’s Day to tell stories inspired from real life instances, on how women are questioned on their choices and decisions by the society. The play, called #andme, was organised by the   V clubhouse. The club also invited   to give self-defence session to the attendees. 

  
  
 
 
 The play showed how females don't get to make their own decisions and are treated differently in our society. The 30-minute play was divided into three parts – first day of college, job life and marriage. The participants depicted how women are questioned on their choices and their decisions at every stage of their lives. The act, however, ended on a positive note where all the characters stood up for themselves and fought against these restrictions. 
 
  
  
 
 Anshu Daga, who made her directorial debut with this play, said, "I have studied theatre and always wanted to put up a play. When the club authorities called me to deliver a speech at the event, I thought I should rather direct a play. Then, luckily, I met these incredible women from the city, who agreed to act in it."
 
 The participants practiced for over 20 days for the play. "We did not have any script for the first week, we just talked about our observations and came up with the concept of the play," said Surbhi Modi, who participated in the play.
 
  
  Around 10 mothers from Gurgaon performed in the play
 
 
 Kavita Sahai, another participant, said, "The best thing about the play was that everyone could relate to it. All the stories in our play were inspired by our everyday lives. We all go through these issues and often talk about them. I really enjoyed presenting this play today."
 
  
  Caught in action!
 
 
 
 Osho, a trainer from the  , accompanied by four women constables, conducted the self-defence session. "Pehle lado mat, par agar lado toh phir kisi ko chhoro mat," the trainer said to the attendees. 
 
 While sharing a self-defence technique, he said, "It takes a lot of training to punch and box, but one should know the soft spots and hit them. For instance, if you slap someone in the face, it would not give you the time to run away, but if you hit the attacker’s nose with your palm, that will hurt him." The session was followed by some demonstrations by the constables. 
 
  
  
 
 
