MUMBAI: Former chief minister   is likely to accept  's offer for a   nomination due to uncertainty over his induction into the Maharashtra cabinet led by chief minister  . 

 A senior BJP minister said BJP chief Amit Shah offered him the nomination to the upper House in the presence of Fadnavis in Delhi. "Rane was told that in view of uncertainty over his entry into the state cabinet, he should accept the Rajya Sabha nomination and his demand for a cabinet berth would be considered at a later stage," said the minister on the condition of anonymity. 
 
 "I have not taken any decision on the BJP's offer. It's a fact that during my meeting with Amit Shah, I was offered a Rajya Sabha nomination. I have sought a week to consider the proposal," Rane told TOI. 
 
 After the humiliating defeat of his son, Neelesh, in 2014 Lok Sabha elections, followed by his own rout in the Maharashtra assembly polls as well as a by-election from Bandra east, Rane was at logger heads with state   chief  . A day after Chavan dissolved the Sindhudurg district Congress committee controlled by Rane on September 21, the Konkan strongman quit the Congress. Rane then had several meetings with Fadnavis, state BJP chief Raosaheb Danve and Amit Shah. It was then proposed that if Rane joined the BJP, only then would his induction into the Maharashtra cabinet will be considered. Subsequently, after the   threatened to destabilize the government in the event Rane was given a cabinet berth, he was asked to float his own party, and announce support for the Narendra Modi-led National Democratic Alliance.
 
 Rane obliged the BJP leadership on all counts. But owing to the Shiv Sena's mounting pressure, he was not inducted into the state cabinet. He has now been offered the Rajya Sabha nomination, but there is no commitment on the cabinet berth.
 
 "In the event Rane accepts the offer, then Maharashtra Women's Commission chairperson Vijaya Rahatkar, senior BJP leader Shyam Jaju and some prominent leaders may be considered for the other Rajya Sabha seats," said the minister. 
 
 BJP leaders said that since the party can secure three Rajya Sabha seats from Maharashtra, besides Rane, Union ministers Prakash Javadekar and Dharmendra Pradhan can be considered. "Javadekar has been elected from MP, Arun Jaitley from Gujarat and Pradhan from Bihar. The three leaders should be nominated from the same states, so that the state BJP leadership can give an opportunity to new faces,'' the minister said.
 
 
