Krystle D’Souza, the calm and the composed bahu of Indian television, recently visited Delhi for the launch of her new show. We took her out on a little street food eating trip, and she was happily hopping from one shop to another at Bengali Market, gulping paani poori and chhole bhature. 

 
 
 Coming to the capital got Krystle excited about Dilli ki sardi. She told us she wishes that she could take the   back with her so that her trench coats could be put to some use. "Mumbai is very hot. So all of us were very excited to come here, but I was the only one wearing   clothes. Sab mera mazak uda rahe thay," she said. She has visited Delhi many times but it has mostly been for work. She never got a chance to explore the city. "I was so excited walking around the market, Dilli ka khana gets me all hungry. Main yahan aake kaam karke wapas chali jati hoon, but aaj kaam ke saath time pass bhi hua. Dilli mein bahut maza aa raha hai.” she said. “I was so excited walking around the market, having all the food. I wish I could spend more time here. I love everything about Delhi, the food, the people and of course the weather. If there is one thing that I could take from Delhi to Mumbai, I would take the weather first, because I love winter   and layering clothes," she said.
 What is the one thing she wants to do in Delhi? Krystle replied, "I have heard a lot about the nightlife in Delhi, that’s something I want to experience. I also want to experience the extreme winters in Delhi," she added. 
 
  
   
 
 
 
 When we asked her about one difference between Delhi and Mumbai, she quipped, "Honestly, I feel Delhiites bahut dressup hote hain. In Mumbai we roam around in payjamas and nobody cares. My friends tease me saying, 'You love dressing up like a Delhiite.' I shop a lot, I have so many clothes, accessories and makeup, so why won’t I use them? And at the end of the day, selfie toh kheechni padti hi hai na," she laughed.
 
 
 
 Recalling the time when she came to Delhi after her first show, Krystle told us that it was overwhelming for her to see all the love. "When I came to Delhi for an event, it was right after my first show went on air and I didn’t know what my fan following was then. I went straight to a mall and there was a huge crowd. There were a lot of people and I saw a chain of bodyguards for the first time – I was stunned! People wanted to shake hands, get autographs, they were literally jumping. I had tears in my eyes. Dilliwaale jo karte hai dil se karte hain. I feel people here follow their heart always. It always mean a lot if they like my shows here." she said. 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Talking about her new show,  , Krystle said, "I have made people cry, have scared them, shown them female power, so now making them laugh is also my responsibility. Even though, this is a very different show for me, the character I am playing is very similar to my personality. Whenever I try to do something nice, I end up messing it up, and so does this character," she said. "This show feels like an autobiography," she laughed.
 Sharing her shooting experience, Krystle told us, "If we shoot for 12 hours, we end up laughing for at least 10 hours." Krystle sure plays a seedhi sadhi bahu on TV, but on sets she is a prankster. "I hid an actress’ phone, who is playing a nurse on the show, under Mushtaqji’s (Mushtaq Khan) newspaper and she kept looking for it all over the studio. Later, she found it and both of them were taken aback. She still thinks Mushtajji hid her phone," she laughed.
 
 
 
 Krystle, who was dressed in a black-beige sari during the Delhi trip, told us that she loves wearing western clothes. "Denims, tee and sneakers are just too comfortable. I love wearing loose clothes, even though I look like a boy-child in them. But I feel, that it does not matter, I can be who I want to be off-screen. I feel most uncomfortable in saris, it’s too girly and I have to behave properly in it. I don’t like behaving like a girl too much," she said.
 
 --Aurushi.Goswami@timesgroup.com
 
 
