Lakshmi Hebbalkar, president of the state   women’s morcha, is candid in admitting the poor representation for women in her party’s ticket distribution. In an interview with 
 , she says Congress will make women who have been denied tickets MLCs and chairpersons of

 boards and corporations. The high-profile Congress woman is the party candidate from Belagavi (Rural). Excerpts:
 
 
 
 
 I’m not happy about it. The Mahila Congress had recommended 22 candidates, of which 19 were put up before the party’s central election committee. After final scrutiny, we could get only 14 tickets.
 
 
 
 
 I’ve been president of the KPCC Women’s Morcha for two-and-a-half years. I told all aspirants not to ask for ticket just because there is women’s quota but instead work on the ground and update leaders about it. We need to convince leaders that we are winnable candidates. At the same time, lobbying is also equally important.
 
 
 
 
 Yes, he was keen on giving 10-15% tickets to women. He also sent the list back once for this reason. However, the opinion of district leaders, caste combination, performance of aspirants, loyalty and lobbying all count. Disappointed aspirants have been assured of MLC seats or being made chairpersons of boards and corporations.
 
 
 
 
 I’m confident of winning. I have never lost confidence though I lost the last election. I have maintained contact with people, developed a bond with them over the past five years which I think will yield good results.
 
 
 
 
 I don’t think such negative propaganda will affect me because I did it with good intention. People of my constituency know it. Finally, they will decide.
 
 
 
 
 The   candidate is going around with the Hindutva agenda and the MES candidate with the border dispute. I’m focusing only on development. BJP candidate Sanjay Patil has made a thousand promises but never delivered. Now, he’s telling people to vote for him for their survival because if I’m elected, I won’t let them live peacefully. This is ridiculous.
 
 
 
 
 Sanjay Patil is not a Maratha. Yes, there are more Marathi-speaking voters in my constituency. In the past five years, I’ve also learned Marathi and can speak to them. Marathi-speaking people call me Tai and Kannada speakers Akka. Every child in the constituency knows me and I’m confident of getting 50% of votes.
 
 
 
 
 It’s because I come from the Lingayat community and am a woman. Many party leaders feel I may overtake them if I get elected.
 
 
 
 
 Not necessary. But, a ‘margadarshak’ is needed to show the way ahead.
 
 
