BENGALURU: Even as political parties in Karnataka indulge in a slugfest over river water dispute with neighbouring states—the most recent being the Mahadayi issue, their promises to ensure clean drinking water for majority of households still remain on paper. 

 Consecutive state governments have failed in providing piped water supply (PWS) to several households in the state, including 10.40 lakh in urban areas like Bengaluru, Mysuru and Mangaluru. 
 
 On Friday, urban development minister Roshan   was presented with a host of complaints about water supply in Chikkamagaluru town. “The government is committed to providing safe drinking water to every citizen. I’ve also been receiving complaints from various places, including Bengaluru. We’re putting in place system to address the concerns,” Baig told STOI.
  
  
 While over 80% of the urban households in Karnataka are covered by PWS—42.74 lakh of the 53.15 lakh households have it—rural parts are struggling to access water. As on December 28, 2017, just 43% (33.92 lakh) of the 78.6 lakh households were covered under the system. Urban and rural areas put together, only 33% of households have piped water supply, and even among those, nearly 13% get water from an untreated source. 
 
 Rural development and panchayat raj (RDPR) minister H K Patil said he will seek a report on the ground situation and consult heads of departments incharge of providing water connections.
 
 According to the Union ministry of drinking water and sanitation, Karnataka is among the states faring poorly in this regard. But the situation is not unique to the state with even states like Maharashtra and   performing poorly. Only 16.85% of rural households in the country are covered under piped water supply schemes.
 
 
 
  On record, nearly a quarter of Karnataka’s households have to travel over half-a-kilometre for water—the highest among all southern states—and deficient or scanty rainfall in the past six years has only added to their woes. While 24.8% of Karnataka’s households have to cover more than half-a-kilometre to fetch drinking water, the figure stands at 23.9% in Andhra Pradesh (including Telangana), 19.6% in Maharashtra, 10.8% in Kerala, 8.2% in   and 2.1% in  .
 
 While these are people dependent on surface water, most of which is also polluted, a majority of Karnataka’s districts have also reported contamination in groundwater. At least 1,050 habitations are affected by one or the other pollutant, and at least 100 were killed because of this in three years. 
 
 Data also shows that 29 of the 30 districts (96%) in Karnataka are affected by contaminated drinking water affecting 1,219 habitats directly. Some of the worst hit districts are: Belagavi, Ballari, Bidar, Vijayapura, Chikkaballapura, Chamarajanagar, Chikkamagaluru, Chitradurga, Davanagere, Dharwad, Dakshina Kannada, Gadag, Kalaburagi, Hassan, Haveri, Kolar, Koppal, Mandya, Mysuru, Raichur, Ramanagara, Shivamogga, Tumakuru, Yadgir, Uttara Kannada and Udupi.
 
 
