Mysuru: Close on the heels of the state government clearing the proposal to declassify 350 acres in Kurbarhalli and Alanahalli – the decision to drop the areas from the ‘B-Kharab’ land that would have meant the parcel would be public property – MLA for Krishnaraja constituency MK   on Sunday assured the residents of the two areas that the necessary documents would be handed over to them later in March.

 “This has come as a huge relief to residents of KC Layout, JC Nagar, Siddartha Nagar and Alanahalli Layouts. The state cabinet has approved the proposal to drop 105 acres at KC Layout, 44.2 acres at JC Nagar and 205.9 acres in Siddartha Nagar from the ‘B-Kharab’ category. Once chief minister Siddaramaiah gives the nod, the officials will start the procedure and give documents to landowners. The state cabinet’s decision has provided relief to nearly 35,000 families,” said Somashekar.
 
 The residents in these areas had faced many hurdles in the wake of layouts in   survey number 4 and Alanahalli survey no. 11 as ‘B-Kharab’ land by the then deputy commissioner in 2015. After the people petitioned the district administration, the DC formed a committee and submitted a report to the revenue secretary. The state government directed the revenue department to seek legal advice from the advocate general.
 
 Recalling the history of the layouts, Somashekar said, “The layouts under these survey numbers were formed in 1970 by the City Improvement Trust Board (CITB), now called the Mysore Urban Development Authority. The land was allotted in 1976 by the authorities, but the owners are yet to get the documents and will soon get property papers.”
 
 Adhisesha, a resident of Siddhartha Layout, said, “When the district administration declared some of the layouts in Kurbarahalli and Alanahalli ‘B-Kharab’, we faced a lot of problems. The authorities did not allow us to construct additional floors, sell our property, procure title deeds or change the khatas. We were also denied loans on our houses by banks and finance companies. This decision by the state government is the result of continuous protest staged by the residents of these layouts, and the legislator has now assured us that we will get the properties in our names.”
 
 
