Day 2 of the FDCI-presented fashion week in Delhi was all about a fusion of varied concepts.

 
 Glamour, shimmer and shine caught everyone’s attention when Bollywood diva Bipasha Basu walked the ramp for Karishma Deepa Sondhi. 
 The collection, Rasbhari, had silhouttes rooted in tradition, while the clothes dazzled in true Bollywood style. What stood out was the intricate embroidery and tassel work. With this collection, Karishma Deepa Sondhi celebrates the joy of being a modern Indian woman.
 
  
  Bipasha Basu walked the ramp for Karishma Deepa Sondhi on Day 2 of the ongoing FDCI- presented fashion week in Delhi. The collection, titled Rasbhari, was all about intricate embroideries and tassel work
 
 
  
  
 
  
 The designer showcased a collection that presented a mix and match of traditional crafts from different cities, street culture, and colour stories creating an offbeat look.
 
 
  
  
 
  
 The collection effectively delivered a vintage yet futuristic appeal to traditional classics such as Jodhpuris, hunting safaris, Indo-westerns, achkans and sherwanis paired with breeches, polo and rider pants.
 
 
  
  
 
  
 Her most glamourous collection to date, Winter Dahlia, took inspiration from the blushing tones of dahlia petals. It paid homage to the vibrancy and delicacy of the bloom.
 
  
  
 
  
 With all of Malini’s signature elements which include dip-dyed drapes, tribal influences, sexy lines, regal capes, sequins, mirrors and lots of gold, this mystical collection has been conjured by her with inspiration from the journey of a woman who is confident, wise, kind, sexy, powerful and most of all, magical.
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
 On the occasion of Pearl Academy’s 25 anniversary, renowned alumni showcased their collections at the fashion week. Among the alumni, who presented their collections, were Nikhil Mehra, Mandira Wirk, Leon Vaz, Rimzim Dadu, Vaishali S and Sumiran Kabir.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 Saaj by Ankita had bold graphics of black and white chevrons and other geometric patterns embedded in the collection alongside pop orange and florescent aqua. The patterns, developed on cotton hand weave, featured on tailored pant-suit, jackets, culottes and skirts in the collection.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Combining natural handloom silks from Bengal and Bihar with fine technique of Arashi dying and block printing in graphic designs, Kommal and Ratul Sood presented their collection on Day 2 of the fashion week. The silhouettes were created keeping the contemporary global man in mind.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 The collection, Animate, was all about walking into the wild with a variety of animals adorned in prints and embroidery with a splash of colours. From belted trousers to normal fitting trouser with details at hem, the collection had clean and modern silhouettes. The color palette was an amalgamation of different shades of black, white, blue, tan, and grey with a color detail of red and yellow.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Inspired by the designer’s travels to the Balkan Peninsula in Europe – the region consisting of several countries including Croatia, Romania and Slovenia to name a few, Vineet Bahl’s collection underscored the artisanal talent of the region. Antique gold and silver thread accents juxtaposed with floral embroideries containing splashes of crimson red were applied to rich tones of butterscotch and black velvet along with onyx and indigo colored sequins. Blood orange, cerulean blue and sunflower yellow added a pop of colour to the collection.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 The collection, A Monsoon Flower, celebrated the past and the future, the naïveté and the complex interplay of it all. Fluid silhouettes like dhoti saris complimented the brocade cocktail jacket, prints that embodied a million flowers and embroidery that is bold and full of colour and zeal.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 Rina Dhaka’s collection was all about flowers juxtaposed with plaids and lace. Models clad in maxi dresses, asymmetrical skirts and coat dazzeled the ramp. Loose sleeves and frill detailing were also a highlight of the show.
 
  
  
 
 
 The designer addressed immigration crisis through his collection. Millions of people becoming homeless and their lives getting displaced, was the emotion Nitin attempted to capture. Quirky-shaped hats and headwears caught a lot of attention.
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
