AHMEDABAD:   high court has said that the norms of setting up health centres on islands can be fixed separately like the norms the government has fixed for health centres in mountains or hilly areas.

 A bench of Justice M R   and Justice A Y   suggested laying down separate norms for establishment of primary health centres (PHCs) on islands, particularly near Gujarat coast. The bench suggested so because these islands lack medical facilities and people living on these islands bear great difficulties to avail treatment during emergencies.
 
 The government has laid down different norms for establishment of PHCs, sub-centres and community health centres in hilly areas and tribal areas. While a PHC is established among population of 30,000 normally, in hilly areas, one PHC is allotted for a population of 20,000. Similarly sub-centres in hilly areas are set up for a population of 3,000, whereas in plains, one centre is established for 5,000 people. One community health centre is established in tribal areas among 80,000 people, but for other areas it caters to 1.20 lakh people.
 
 The HC was concerned about lack of medical facilities on islands, and suggested separate norms be made for establishment of health centres there. It said, “Many a time, due to non-availability of transport facilities after sunset and before sunrise, it becomes very difficult for people living on islands to get medical treatment immediately.”
 
 The Centre replied that if Gujarat government makes appropriate proposal in this regard, it will positively consider this at the earliest.
 
 The high court said so when the state government informed it how a fully equipped boat ambulance has been made operational on   for emergency service for fishermen mid-sea. Within a month, the government will provide a second boat ambulance also. The boat ambulance service is above the 110 ambulances to be provided for coastal region of Gujarat in a short time.
 
 Residents of Shiyal Beyt filed a PIL for emergency medical services and to make a health centre operational. After the HC took up the issue, the state government has decided to send a doctor to the island on working days of the week.
 
 
