TIRUPUR: Textile dyeing cluster in the district has demanded the central government to reclassify biological sludge (microbes) generated in effluent treatment plants (ETPs) as non-hazardous waste.

 Even since zero liquid discharge (ZLD) system was implemented, the ETPs were looking for ways to dispose of 30 tonnes of biosludge generated daily as it was classified under hazardous category. 
 
 Last year, the cluster found out a way to convert the biosludge into fuel but is awaiting central government’s approval for the process. 
 
 It has submitted a memorandum to the   (Cpcb) through the   (Tnpcb) seeking to reclassify biosludge as non-hazardous.
 
 As a part of the effluent treatment process, ETPs would grow microbes including bacteria, which consume effluents. The microbes would involve in rapid multiplication. Excess quantity of live microbes would be removed periodically, apart from removal of dead microbes. It results in formation of 30 tonnes of biosludge in a day in all the Common ETPs (CETPs) and Individual ETPs (IETPs).
 
 President of the   (DAT) S Nagarajan said, “The association approached Indian Institute of Technology-Madras (IIT-M) to conduct a study on disposal of the biosludge. A five-member team from department of environmental science and engineering of the premier institution conducted a research and found that the sludge can be converted into biobriquette, which can be utilized as fuel.” The team conducted the research at Arulpuram CETP in 2017. 
 
 General manager of Arulpuram CETP M Gajendran told TOI: “The report submitted by IIT-M team confirmed that while utilizing the biosludge as fuel, there was no hazardous emission or atmosphere created. It was safe for the environment.”
 
 More than 10,000 tonnes of biosludge get accumulated every year in Tirupur cluster. They should be stored safely without causing any damage to the environment, for which the dyeing units should spend more capital. One-fourth of the running cost of ETPs would go into storing biosludge. 
 
 “So, if we will be allowed to utilize the converted form of the biosludge as fuel, the cost could be controlled. DAT invested Rs 30-40 lakh for the research but it is in the hands of the central government to reclassify the sludge as non-hazardous and allow it to be used as fuel,” said Gajendran.
 
 “A pilot study conducted by a private laboratory in Erode concluded that the same sludge can be converted into vermi compost and utilized as manure,” said BM Boopathy, chief executive officer of the association.
 
 “Developing countries like Italy have classified biosludge as non-hazardous and utilize the same as manure. So, with available modern technologies, our researchers found that the same can be used either as fuel or manure,” Boopathy added.
 
 
