MOHALI: Hundreds of anganwadi workers gheraoed the residence of animal husbandry minister   on Sunday and sat outside the house for hours before police managed to disperse the protesters.
 
 Anganwadi workers and helpers on Sunday staged a huge protest in   against the state government’s decision to start pre-primary classes for the children in the age group of 3 to 6 years.
 
 They opposed chief minister Amarinder Singh’s decision to start enrolment of children above three years of age in pre-primary classes in government schools from the next academic session. The anganwadi workers gathered to express resentment against the proposal.
 
 Led by district president  , the anganwadi workers protested against the merger of 800 primary schools and the decision to start pre-primary classes in these state-run schools.
 
 The protesters alleged it is their fundamental right to stage a protest against the ‘anti-social’ policies of the government but the administrative officials did not allow them to exercise this right.
 
 Accusing the   government of failing to keep its promises, the protesters demanded the workers and helpers of these centres should now be given a pay scale, which is equal to the nursery school teachers since they had been working as teachers for the children in the age group of 3 to 6 years.
 
 Usha  , an anganwadi employee leader, said both state government and Centre have failed to provide basic facilities to the residents of the region and the staff members working in these pre-primary centres have been left in the lurch due to scant facilities. She also said there were around 64,000 employees in 26,833 anganwadi centres across the state and the government’s decision to merge these centres with primary schools is not going in their favour.
 
 She said if the government wanted to merge these centres, the decision on 800 schools should have been taken after the merger. On May 3, vehicular traffic on Kharar-Mohali and   roads remained suspended for nearly an hour when anganwadi workers staged a protest.
 
