HYDERABAD: Telangana Pollution Control Board has slapped closure notices on four industries, including two lead processing units headquartered in Hyderabad with factory outlets in Kothur of Mahabubnagar. Kothur, 15 km from Outer Ring Road, has become the favourite real estate destination and pollution from Kothur Industrial Area is becoming a cause for concern.

 PCB found that lead industries in Kothur in Mahabubnagar were not taking measures to curb pollution and there were high lead levels with carcinogenic content in the air.
 
 
 
  
 
 PCB member secretary P   said, the two industries,   and   Limited, have been shut down. “At the recent Task Force meeting, we took a serious view of the lead processing units in Kothur operating without control measures. We have issued closure notices to both units and the power department snapped supply too. We can’t take a lenient view on lead pollution,” said Satyanarayan Reddy.
 
 Hyderabad Pigments Pvt. Ltd manufactures lead alloys and oxides that are extensively used in storage battery making industries and allied manufacturing processes.
 
 Ramesh Kumar Agarwal, one of the directors of Hyderabad Pigments Private Limited, told TOI, “At the time of inspection by PCB officials, one of the parameters and instrument that controls it was not in position. All other parameters and control measures were as per rules. To the notice of PCB, we replied and submitted photographic evidence. We are hoping PCB will inspect again and clear our unit. We have been closed for the past 10 days due to PCB orders. We supply lead alloys and oxides to the battery industry. At Mittal Batteries we do make dry batteries. If we are not following procedures, we would not have been in the business.”
 
 In two separate cases, Palamoor Paper Products Limited in Choutuppal in   and SVR Laboratories Private Limited in Dhotigudem of Pochampally in Nalgonda district were shut for not having an effluent treatment plan and for violating norms.
 
 PCB member secretary P Satyanarayan Reddy said, “Palamoor Paper Products has no treatment plant due to which effluents are let off into the surroundings. During Task Force meeting, it was decided to shut it down. Despite warnings, SVR Laboratories has violated norms again, so we issued closure notices,”
 
 In a separate development, Telangana PCB issues closure orders to A1 service station in Muttangi in Sangareddy. “Industries are supposed to clean tankers carrying effluents in their premises.
 
 However, A1 service station was used for cleaning tankers. The water mixed with harmful chemicals are dumped on the road in Muttangi in Sangareddy, so action was taken against them.”
 
