MUMBAI: An app cab ride in broad daylight turned out to be a nightmare for a woman as she caught her driver masturbating at a traffic signal in Andheri (E) on Friday morning. 

 The woman said that when she confronted the driver, he turned abusive and threatened her. After she complained to Uber, the aggregator immediately permanently deactivated the driver's account. She is yet to lodge a police complaint.
 
  
  
  The incident occurred around 10.45am when the woman, who was travelling to Seepz and was on a call with her husband, found the driver staring at her in the rearview mirror. She said that as soon as she realized the driver had unzipped and was masturbating, she asked him to stop the vehicle and got out. But the driver started yelling at her for leaving without paying. 
 
  When the woman questioned the driver about his  , he allegedly threatened her and started hurling abuses at her. She has claimed that there were no cops around and though there were several onlookers, none came to her help. 
 
 
  
 
 Scared, she told the driver that she would pay up and that he should back off. The driver demanded Rs 150 but the shocked woman couldn't wait to even count the money and hence, gave him whatever she could fetch from her bag. She later realized she had paid him Rs 100 more. 
 
 An Uber spokesperson said: "What's been described has no place on our app. Our community guidelines clearly reject such inappropriate behaviour. Upon learning about the incident, we immediately removed the driver partner's access to the app."
 
 Uber officials, who checked the driver's antecedents after the incident, said that he is a first-time offender. "The background check and criminal history checks were clear for this driver partner," a source from the firm said. 
 
 Recently, cabbies had gone on protest and one of their demands was to reinstate drivers who had been blacklisted. However, officials from Ola and Uber have made it clear that they will not reinstate any driver who has a criminal record.
 
 
