HYDERABAD: Two heroic firemen from   have made it to the exclusive league of six brave firefighters selected from across the country for the President's gallantry awards to be given on Republic Day.

 While the two Telangana firemen -   and   - are from the   and Fire Services Department, the remaining four are from Uttar Pradesh. The firemen will be awarded for exemplary courage in carrying out rescue operations.
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 Thirjesi Satyam, who works as a fireman at Warangal fire station, was faced with a challenging situation when a fire broke out at a hospital in Hanamkonda on October 16, 2017. The fire, which originated in the operation theatre block on second floor of the four-storeyed Rohini Super Speciality Hospital building, soon enveloped the entire floor in dense smoke, leading to zero visibility. When the fire brigade arrived, the upper two floors of the hospital too were filled with smoke.
 
 Satyam broke the glass window panes and rescued 20 patients. “The fireman showed utmost dedication and sincerity to the duty and lived up the motto of the department 'We serve to save' and deserves highest level of appreciation”, said an official of Telangana State Disaster Response and Fire Services Department.
 
 Though most of the patients were rescued in the operation that lasted for 45 minutes, thanks to the efforts of the fireman, two persons died in the mishap that reportedly occurred due to a short circuit in the operation theatre that also led to a gas cylinder blowing up, resulting in a big blaze.
 
 In another incident, fireman Sunku Jagadesh of   fire station, Medchal district, showed courage when a massive explosion occurred at   gas filling unit located at Cherlapally.
 
 The mishap occurred at 8.35pm on September 14, 2017, and the 28-year-old fireman battled the blaze till 4am, when the fire fighting operation drew to a close. Nearly 40 LPG cylinders exploded, resulting in a raging inferno. However, no one was injured. “He chose arisky and dangerous task and showed valour and utmost dedication to duty,” said a fire services department official.
 
 
