MADURAI: With the summer heat slowly gaining momentum and plains turning relatively hot, forest department officials are bracing to face one of their worst nightmare - forest fires. In recent times, there have been incidents of forest fires in Sirumalai forest range, but officials were quick to act and managed to douse them before they could cause heavy damage, according to forest sources.

 Madurai forest division consisting Madurai and Theni districts spreads over 1,33,956 hectares. Geographically Madurai’s forest cover is 14 per cent, well below the state and national average. Madurai district has 27,825 hectares of forest cover of which 26,589 hectares are under the reserve forest and rest are in reserve land category. 
 
 A sizeable area lies in Sirumalai forest area with moist deciduous, dry deciduous and shrub flora. When the summer becomes intense, the shrubs and dry deciduous forest areas become potential spots for forest fires as the green cover dries up and deciduous tree species shed their leaves. Considering the fact that forest fires are likely, if there are no heavy downpours in summer months, a grant of Rs 11 lakh has been set aside to create fire-lines. A fire-line is a strip of land cleared of vegetation to prevent the wildlife spreading into adjacent forest areas. The funds will be utilized to create 203km of fire-line in the Madurai Forest Circle. 
 
 “In addition to creating fire-lines, we have sensitized village forest committees to be extra cautious about wildfires and alert the department. They live abutting the forest areas and we rope them for fire-fighting measures,” said  , conservator of Madurai forest circle (additional charge). 
 
 The intense summer is also expected to dry up water sources inside the forest. When the water sources dry up, wild animals forage into residential areas for water and food. There are plans to create percolation ponds and forest ponds inside forest areas. “When the water holes dry up during summer, our department start ferrying water to these holes with tanker trucks”, Jegania added. Madurai forest area will be getting a pond, under the scheme announced by the state forest minister earlier, for which Rs 5 lakh has been allotted, forest sources stated. 
 
 The department has also urged people to exercise extreme caution when travelling through forest areas so that they don’t end up creating unintentional fire by throwing combustible items like cigarette butts. 
 
