PUNE: The   has decided to set up a common   near the cold storage area in the   soon. The move is aimed at securing better cleanliness and hygienic conditions.

 A resolution to this effect was passed by the board’s general body which met recently. The market houses a sizeable number of chicken and meat shops. D N Yadav, PCB chief executive officer, said, "Slaughtering is the prime reason behind unhygienic conditions in Shivaji Market and we thought it necessary to have a common place where such activity can done in a proper manner.”
 
 
 On the suggestions of a section of the members, the board also decided to appoint its staff at the proposed common slaughtering facility to monitor the activity in the market.
  
 
 Yadav told TOI on Sunday, “At present, many vendors selling chicken are slaughtering animals at their respective stalls. Due to this, the existing drainage line is getting chocked and stagnation of blood and animal waste is causing unhygienic conditions and odour. Once we establish a common slaughtering facility, we will deploy a special garbage collection vehicle which will collect animal blood and waste and transport it to the Kondhwa-based slaughtering house for disposal.”
 
 Earlier, the board had taken action against illegal   operating in the cantonment areas as well as the Shivaji Market and had shut down 15 such shops, last year. A senior official from the board, who did not wish to be named, said, “Some of the closed shops have again opened their businesses. As per our estimation, as many as 50 illegal chicken shops are currently operating in various parts of the eight wards in the cantonment.”
 
 The board had initiated a process for relocation nearly 50 chicken shops from the market, recently and had issued a special notification inviting suggestions and objections from people over relocation move.
 
 Sources in the board said, “Most of the suggestions were in favour of continuing these shops at Shivaji Market. As a result, the board could not take further action.” As per the board’s plan, the chicken markets will be established at different places including at Wanowrie,   and other areas.
 
 A senior board member told TOI, “It has become difficult for the board to locate a precise location for establishing new chicken markets in its jurisdiction. As a result, the board needs to pay extra attention toward the existing chicken shops in the market and the other areas. Health department officials must visit these places regularly to check hygiene conditions.”
 
