GURUGRAM: Patients are suffering due to shortage of staff and lack of basic infrastructure at government-run hospitals, the only healthcare facilities that offer affordable healthcare services in the city.

  
  
 At the district’s biggest   in Civil Lines, there are 66  , against 70 sanctioned posts, to attend to 2,500-odd patients daily. Further, most of the senior doctors, including the civil surgeon, principal medical officers, six deputy civil surgeons and the medical superintendent, are engaged in administrative work. There is no physiotherapist, dental surgeon, clinical psychologist, pharmacist, dental hygienist and biomedical engineer in the hospital. 
 
 An RTI query by activist SK Sharma has revealed that the situation is equally grim at other health centres. At the General Hospital (GH) in Sector 10, there are 29 doctors, including 7 specialists and 22 general physicians, against 42 posts. In the Sohna GH, there are no specialists and only three general physicians and three consultant doctors against 11 sanctioned posts. In the   GH, too, there are no specialists but only three doctors against seven posts.
 
 The staff shortage results in compromise with patient care. With a daily footfall of nearly 2,500 patients, 3,900 patients were referred to Delhi’s Safadarjung hospital from the Civil Lines hospital, last year. 
 
 Health officials claimed the department couldn’t attract staff as the perks offered by the government didn’t match those from the private sector. 
 
 Nearly 622 posts were advertised by the health department last year but only 40% vacancies were filled.
 
 The reason, according to doctors, is that the promotion policy is not merit based and the payment policy and salary scales similar for specialist and general physicians. A senior doctor said, “Assured career progression happens in every 4, 9, 13 and 20 years in central health services. But in Haryana, it happens in every 5, 10 and 15 years.” Unlike the Centre, Haryana also doesn’t offer allowances for transport, calls or books.
 
 
 
