JALANDHAR: Even four months after cases were registered against senior Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) leaders, including its president  , for blocking highways, Punjab Police are act. Police officials are saying that the cases, registered against   for blocking national and state highways on December 7 and 8, 2017, are still under investigation.

 After the cases were registered, Sukhbir, who was booked at Makhu police station in   district, had dared chief minister Amarinder Singh to arrest him and other Akalis. Reacting to it,   president Sunil Jakhar had said the cases would be taken to logical conclusion.
 
 Sources in police said any further action in these cases would be taken only after instructions from the top brass. Police had also invoked Section 8 B of the National Highway Act, a stringent provision, in these cases.
 
 Apart from Sukhbir, former state minister Bikram Singh Majithia and several other Akali leaders were booked under different provisions of IPC, while in a few cases Section 8 of the NH Act was also invoked.
 
 The obstructions by SAD leaders had almost blocked the entire Punjab as sit-ins were staged on the bridges on Satluj and Beas rivers due to which thousands of people were stranded.
 
 RTI activist Parvinder Singh Kitna had sent applications under the RTI Act about these cases to Bathinda, Taran Taran, Jalandhar, Kapurthala, Moga, Amritsar, Ferozepur and Sangrur districts. He said only the public information officer (PIO) in the office of Tarn Taran senior superintendent of police (SSP) replied in detail answering all questions while there was no reply from Bathinda, Jalandhar, Moga, Ferozepur and Sangrur. “PIOs of Kapurthala and Amritsar police sought additional fee while Nawanshahr police only provided copy of the FIR and denied providing rest of the information while others simply did not reply,” Kitna said.
 
 He had sought copies of the FIRs, status of the case, name of the investigating officer, any information of anticipatory bails, number of those arrested and if there were any instructions from any senior officials not to arrest the accused.
 
 Taran Taran police provided the FIR in which among others names of former MLAs Virsa Singh Valtoha and Harmeet Singh Sandhu also figured. The PIO’s reply said that investigation was on and raids were being conducted to arrest the accused.
 
 When asked on Friday, Makhu station house officer (SHO) Raman Kumar, who has taken charge recently, said the case was under investigation. In Jalandhar, former minister and then Shahkot MLA Ajit Singh Kohar, who died recently, MLAs Gurpartap Singh Wadala, Pawan Teenu and Baldev Singh Khaira and other leaders were also booked at Lohian police station for blocking Giddarpindi bridge on Satluj.
 
 Asked about the case, Jalandhar (rural) SSP Gurpreet Bhullar said the case was under investigation.
 
 
