CHANDIGARH: District Consumer Disputes Redressel   directed  , India in Sector 8 to pay Rs 25,000 as compensation for mental agony and harassment along with Rs 8,000 as cost of litigation to  , a   resident.

 The complainant approached the company through their website for booking a honeymoon package for Mauritius for a period of six nights and seven days from December 9 to 15 in 2016. The company confirmed the booking at   and also confirmed certain freebies.
 
 
 The complainant made the entire payment of the package amounting to Rs 1.51 lakh on November 26, 2016, which was three months in advance. However, on December 1, 2016, the complainant received an email informing that due to some technical errors, his booking at Hotel   had failed and they offered one Jalsa   as a substitute accommodation which he refused. The company on December 5, 2016 suggested an alternative as La Palmeraie Hotel.
 
 The complainant could not cancel the tour. After checking in at the La Palmeraie Hotel, the complainant found the hotel to be lacking a lot of services that they were promised as part of the tour package. He sent an email to MakeMyTrip regarding the issue on December 9, 2016, but no action was taken and rather, on December 14, 2016, the company sent an email whereby they offered a future travel voucher of Rs 5000, which he refused. Further, the complainant was also asked to vacate the hotel before 12 noon on December 15, 2016 though his flight was to leave at 9 pm. In the face of such harassment, he served a legal notice on them.
 
 The opposition did not file their reply and evidence despite various adjournments, therefore, their defence was struck off.
 
 Forum in its order stated “The firm betrayed the confidence of the complainant by changing the hotel, that too through email, at the eleventh hour when it was not possible for him to cancel his honeymoon tour. Also the entire payment had already been made to them and the complainant had no option, but, to accept the alternate accommodation.”
 
 It was added that the complainant conveyed his grievance to the company, which apologised for the same.
 
