PUNE: For the next 45 days at least, environment litigants from Maharashtra, Gujarat and Goa will have to travel to New Delhi to get urgent matters heard by the National Green Tribunal ( ) after the Supreme Court’s order on Wednesday.

 The order said, “The chairperson of the NGT shall not constitute single-member bench, but a division bench consisting of one judicial member and an expert member.” 
 
 The green tribunal’s western region bench in Pune has only one judicial member presiding over matters. As such, all adjudication work will remain shut till March 12 at least when the NGT bar association’s petition comes up for a hearing before the apex court.
 
 The SC bench of chief justice Dipak Misra, justice A M Khanwilkar and justice D Y Chandrachud was hearing a petition filed by the NGT Bar Association (western region) challenging the central government’s NGT (practices and procedures) Amendment Rules, 2017 that allowed even a single member bench to perform judicial functions. 
 
 The ministry of environment, forest and climate change, registrar general of NGT principal bench, registrar of NGT Pune bench, and the ministry of law and justice are respondents.
 
 There is an overall provision for 40 members at NGT benches in Delhi, Pune, Bhopal, Kolkata and Chennai. Of these, 34 posts for judicial and expert members are vacant at the regional benches, including Pune’s. As of now, only four judicial members and two expert members are functioning. 
 
 Petitioner Saurabh Kulkarni, who heads NGT Bar Association (Western Region), told TOI, “We have challenged the amended rules of 2017 and a consequential office order by the NGT chairperson on December 5, 2017, on the grounds that the same are ultra vires (beyond one’s legal power/authority) and contrary to the parent statute __ the NGT Act, 2010 which does not envisage constitution of single member bench for adjudication of disputes.”
 
 The petition states, “Adjudication of disputes by an expert member, well-versed to understand the complex scientific issues that arise in matters, together with a judicial member, who carries sound experience in dispute resolution based on legal principles, is the sine qua non (essential condition, absolutely necessary) for effective working of the NGT Act.”
 
 Kulkarni said, “The Pune bench, despite having a single court as against the provision for two courts, was operating smoothly. The shortage of judicial/expert members started to show an effect here too. Since December 11, 2017, only one judicial member has been hearing matters. As of November 30, 2017, the pendency of matters was more than 500. On an average 25 matters were getting listed for hearing every day.”
 
 Lawyer   said, “The SC order means cases will continue to be filed and scrutinized by the registrar and staff but will remain pending till a two-member bench is in place. In case of urgent matters, the litigants will have to travel to Delhi which is not possible for all litigants. Pendency will rise.”
 
 
