MUMBAI: School buses and vans plying without mandatory speed governors will now attract a minimum fine of Rs 1,000. These vehicles will have to compulsorily maintain a speed limit of 40 kmph and, if found overspeeding, the RTO or traffic police can suspend permits.

 In the latest directive from the transport department, flying squads have been asked to keep tabs on speeding school vehicles in the city and rein in errant operators. “Permits will be suspended for 15 days to one month if vans are overcrowded, or are found flouting school bus policy guidelines or caught ferrying older students illegally,” a senior RTO official said.
 
 Said Anil   of School Bus Owners’ Association, “We welcome the rule on governors for school vehicles. However, we should involve more traffic police in the enforcement drives as this could result in hundreds of illegal vans being thrown off roads,” he said.
 
 
  
 He pointed out that the association was willing to assist the police/RTO identify vans which illegally ply in the suburbs. “While the rules cap the limit at seven children in small vans, as many as 14 to 20 students are cramped in the vehicles. In one case at   this week, a school van had a minor breakdown and girl students were seen pushing the vehicle,” he said, alleging the vehicle was packed beyond permissible limits.
 
 The association put up a picture of the girls pushing the van on social media on Tuesday in a bid to highlight the issue.
 
 Garg said several school vans were plying witho ut an RTO permit. Speeding during early morning hours was also common, he stated.
 
 He alleged only children below 12 years are allowed in small vans. But, some vans ferry older kids too. He further stated in one instance at  , a big school bus was found carrying 70 students when the permissible limit was 45 to 50 children.
 
 The Bombay high court has also taken a serious view of overloading in school buses. In a recent directive, the HC called for such operators to be dealt with stringently and licences cancelled. The court has also asked schools to have a transport committee which comprises representatives of parents, the school and the transporter.
 
 The transport department may soon come up with a helpline for citizens to lodge complaints against school bus safety violations in Mumbai, an official added.
 
 The Mumbai metropolitan region has around 8,000 buses, mini buses and vans that have received permits under the school bus rules implemented in 2011.
 
