MUMBAI: Mumbai has been declared the cleanest state capital in the Swachh Survekshan 2018, announced on Wednesday. Navi Mumbai won the award for being India’s best in solid waste management among cities with a population of over 10 lakh. Indore, Bhopal and Chandigarh were declared the cleanest cities.

 
  
  
 
 With Mumbai’s rank dropping from No. 10 in 2016 to No. 29 in 2017, the BMC had taken steps to improve the city. This year, however, only the top three national ranks were announced and the survekshan followed the practice of “one city, one award”. This meant that if acity has bagged an award in a category, the next best city gets the honour in another. “It was a conscious decision not to give more than one award to one city. You have to wait to get the details of rankings of all cities, including the ones that did badly,” an official said.
 
 
 
 
 While Nagpur has not made it to the top three clean cities, it has succeeded in getting the first position in India’s Best City in ‘Innovation & Best Practices’ category of Swachh Bharat Sarvekshan 2018.
 
 The results of the survey, which aims to estimate levels of cleanliness across 4,203 cities in the country, were announced by minister of state for housing Hardeep Singh Puri on Wednesday. Indore emerged as the cleanest city, followed by Bhopal and Chandigarh in the government’s cleanliness survey.
 
 In Swachh Sarvekshan-2017, Nagpur had ranked poorly at 137 place out of 434 cities. The then municipal commissioner Ashwin Mudgal had taken much interest to improve city’s rankings in the survey.
 
 Apart from introducing GPS-enabled wrist watches for sanitary workers, the NMC had constructed over 1,000 public toilets. The move had also helped the civic body to make Nagpur city open defecation free. The Swachh Bharat Survey was conducted in February this year. 
 
 The total marks for the contest was 4,000 with 70 marks allotted for innovation. “NMC got full marks under the innovation category,” said a senior health officer (sanitation).
 
 Compared to the previous surveys, this year’s exercise allocated substantial weight to the feedback from citizens based on their daily experience. The civic body has scored full marks under this category too.
 
 Though the civic body is happy as the city clinched the top position in the innovation category, the civic administration and office bearers were expecting the city to be at least in the top 20. According to the officer, the central government is yet to release the full list.
 
 Mayor Nanda Jichkar said the city failed on one ground — no segregation of garbage. “Indore and New Mumbai are doing well when it comes to waste segregation,” she said, adding that next year “Nagpur will score better as the civic body is all set to start bio-mining and waste to energy projects”.
 
 
  
  
 
