GURUGRAM: Two non-motorised tracks (NMTs) at the Rajiv Chowk   were thrown open for pedestrians and two-wheelers in January this year but three months on, they continue to remain in the dark. 

 The NMTs, which have a total length of 1.5km, were built as part of the   underpass project to ensure that pedestrians and cyclists could use a separate track, instead of the main road. 
 
 The NMTs were supposed to be lit by 50 LED lights. However, according to the authorities concerned, criminals and drug peddlers keep stealing the   which are put up in the NMTs. The lights have been replaced twice earlier, and still the tracks remain dark and vulnerable to criminal activities. 
 
 Saurabh Singhal, traffic transportation expert at Bloom Companies, the consultant for the underpass project, said, “We did install streetlights but someone stole them. We will ensure that the streetlights are put up again.”
 
 Additionally, no electrical wiring has been installed in the ducts of the passage joining the two NMTs and that has been permanently dark. 
 
 Singhal added, “Motorcycles and auto-rickshaws are not allowed inside NMTs.” However, the tracks are wide enough to allow a car to pass. The authorities have not built proper gates to prevent the same. 
 
 With no lights, security has become a point of concern for pedestrians who wish to use the NMTs. Geetanjali Sharma, a resident of Sector 12, said, “I had been using the NMTs but I got the scare of my life there. The authorities should install lights and deploy police personnel to prevent crimes inside the NMTs.”
 
 Another, city resident, Maya Rawat, a resident of DLF 3, said, “It gives me jitters to even think of walking inside the NMTs. I fear for my life.” 
 
 The security situation is quite worrying with only two guards but not a single camera to check crimes inside the NMTs. No cops have been deployed at the site. 
 
 Gurugram police PRO Ravinder Kumar said, “We are keeping a close eye on the NMTs and security personnel will be deployed there.” 
 
 Besides, there is also no maintenance work around the NMTs with a huge pile of trash building up outside.
 
 
 
