Nagpur: While the Nagpur University is spending crores on the safety of its main building, it seems it has left the sensitive exam section in a vulnerable position. The CCTV surveillance system is out of service though the ground+two building has multiple entry/exit points and hundreds of people visit the facility daily.

 The security lapse came to fore following an RTI reply by the university. NU’s fourth semester MEd student Priti Phadke had sought September 15, 2017’s two-hour (12 noon to 2pm) CCTV footage of the result section. But, the NU expressed its inability saying that the system was out of order.
 
 Assistant registrar Motiram Tadas didn’t state since when and for how long the service has remained hampered. Other top NU officers too said they are unaware about the CCTVs’ functioning. 
 
 “The NU has ruined the academic records of lot of good students. By keeping its CCTVs off, is it trying to conceal it’s malpractices like they did in my case,” Phadke asked. 
 
 Pro-VC Pramod Yeole, who is handling the exam section, said he wasn’t sure of the exact reason for the non-functioning of CCTV cameras.
 
 Yeole trashed the claim that there could be security issues related to results, answersheets and other students’ data. “The question papers are not there. They are now delivered online. The answersheets too are scanned and hardcopies are almost of no use,” Yeole said.
 
 Asked about the period since the CCTVs are out of order, Yeole referred the query to director board of examinations and evaluation Neeraj Khaty. Khaty didn’t answer TOI’s calls. 
 
 When told the exam section has multiple points, Yeole said guards are deployed there. But, he didn’t explain why the well-equipped MSSC guards were not deployed at exam section.
 
 NU estate officer Vinod Ilme too referred the query to Khaty.
 
 NU officials said the CCTVs were installed in the exam section by utilizing some government funds. “Tenders were called and the equipment was installed by a contractor. However, the administration has hardly bothered about their maintenance,” they said. 
 
 They added that the director is user of the facility while estate officer its in-charge. “Ideally, the estate officer must ensure the system is working,” officials said.
 
 Regarding enchancing security, Yeole said the NU was in the process of centralizing the monitoring of all the departments and colleges. “The Information Technology Board had approved the proposal and soon all properties would come under CCTV surveillance,” he said. 
 
 
