The 42-km extremely busy route from   to Cadbury Junction in Thane is being taken up by the traffic police and   as a new pilot project for smoother traffic management, the   government told the Bombay high court on Friday.

 “The plan involves setting up signage boards, road markings and street furniture on one hand, and drawing up plans for alternative routes in case of traffic congestion on the route on the other,” said advocate general Ashutosh Kumbhakoni, who submitted a note on behalf of Mumbai traffic police. Depending upon the response, the scheme will be implemented for other busy roads in the city, the advocate general told a division bench of Justices Naresh Patil and Nitin Sambre.
 
  
 The court is hearing a public interest litigation about traffic congestion in the city filed by  . “Can the city cope with the increase in the number of vehicles? The question is not just about space crunch, but also relates to pollution causing health hazards to children and the elderly,” said Justice Patil, referring to the latest statistics that around 32 lakh vehicles are registered in Mumbai as of now.
 
 The bench made special mention of persons owning multiple vehicles. “In areas like Malabar Hill, the proportion of vehicle owners to cars is 1:4. There should be some restraint in registering such vehicles,” said Justice Sambre.
 
 It reiterated its suggestion that registration of vehicles should be linked to availability of parking space. The judges also pressed for exploring newer public transport options. “Why is Mumbai not exploring travel by sea?” asked Justice Patil.
 
 The court said equal emphasis should be paid to public transport and pedestrian rights. “Today how many people prefer to travel by public buses or trains when railways sees over 3,000 deaths on the tracks. Public transport should be strengthened so that people have different travel options. Walking should be made convenient for pedestrians,” added the judge.
 
 The traffic police said they have identified 39 accident-prone and 66 chronic water-logging spots in the city and will work out engineering solutions to tackle them. Further, a Quick Response (QR) code would be introduced to identify illegal taxis. The court has scheduled the matter for further hearing on February 27.
 
 
