PUNE: The   ( ) contingent guarding the airport here will soon have a full-fledged bomb detection and disposal unit. 

 The   (AAI) is currently procuring the required equipment for the bomb detection and disposal units at 17 airports, including the facility in Pune.
 
 “AAI is in the process of procuring the equipment needed to make the squad fully operational. The equipment will be handed over to the paramilitary force,”  , assistant inspector general and CISF public relations officer said.
 
 “The process to procure the equipment should not take much time. AAI is the service provider and is set to get those,” the senior officer told TOI.
 
 Sources said at present, only six of the CISF-manned airports — Hyderabad, Kolkata, Kochi, Mumbai, Delhi and Chennai — have the equipment necessary to detect and diffuse explosives. 
 
 Bureau of Civil Aviation Security (BCAS) regulations state that as many as 28 equipment were needed for a full-fledged bomb disposal squad. The sources added that though some of these equipment are available at a few airports, the squad on the task couldn’t be described as a full-fledged one.
 
 The contingent of the paramilitary force at the Pune airport has a dog squad. “The dog squad is very effective. Besides, we have some equipment to identify and diffuse explosives,” a source said.
 
 Late last year, the entry of two-wheelers was banned on the airport premises on the grounds of traffic and security concerns. The CISF, as part of its stepped up operations, also focuses on vehicles, particularly SUVs, reaching the airport with youngsters.
 
 In 2017, the CISF had carried out a major drill at the Pune airport in case of a terror strike. Besides, CISF officers said members of its quick reaction team deployed at the airport will be further trained in the art of precision firing.
 
 “The CISF decided to increase the frequency of firing training and practice for its personnel each year. It is important to sharpen their firing skills. The aim is to make them better than others when it comes to precision firing. Generally, the men undergo firing practice once a year. The plan is to increase such drills to at least four-six times a year,” an officer from New Delhi said.
 
 The Lohegaon airport clinched the third place in the quality of passenger services in the final report of the Airports Council International’s survey for the year 2017. The survey on the airport service quality was conducted all through the year in airports across the world that wished to participate in it.
 
 The Pune airport was ranked third with Kochi and Kolkata in the category of the best airport by size and sub-category of 5 to 15 million passengers per year. 
 
 
