JAIPUR: A 25-year-old migrant worker from Uttar Pradesh’s Kanpur district, who was   on February 3 on suspicion of being a child lifter, died at a hospital on Wednesday.

 Police said Mohammad Faisal  , a resident of   in Kanpur, was taking his friend Aslam Ansari’s two-year-old daughter to market to buy her chocolates when some people suspected that he had kidnapped the child.
 
 
  
  
 
 A video that went viral showed Siddique tied up to an electric pole and being thrashed mercilessly by a mob of about 50 people. The mob is also heard saying that the child-lifter should be killed. He was rescued by police and taken to SMS hospital with severe head injuries. After battling for life for 16 days Siddique succumbed to his injuries on Wednesday morning.
 
 
  
 
 Siddique was working for a slipper contractor and lived in a rented accommodation near Vishwakarma Industrial Area. According to Ansari, Siddique had gone to a market with her daughter on the morning of February
 
 3. “My daughter was fond of him as he used to buy chocolates and biscuits for her. At 11am, I was told by someone that that my daughter was found abandoned near Gautam Vihar road. I immediately rushed there and found my daughter standing alone while Siddique was being beaten by a mob of about 50 people,” he said. Ansari said he immediately called the police and a severely injured Siddique was taken to SMS hospital.
 
 The Jaipur police on February 4 arrested two persons – Nishant Modi and Mahrendra Kala, a history sheeter – under section 308 of IPC (attempt to commit culpable homicide).
 
 
 
 
 
 A senior police officer on Wednesday said they will now add murder charges to the existing FIR.
 
 DCP (Jaipur West) Ashok Gupta told TOI that an FIR was also registered by a woman against Siddique for assault and intent to outrage modesty. The woman was allegedly among those who accused Siddique of kidnapping the girl on February 3. The woman had told the police that she suspected Siddique of molesting the twoyear-old. “She has alleged that when she confronted Siddique, he punched her and tried to flee. The woman later called more people of the area who caught Siddique,” he said.
 
 Siddique’s younger brother, Mohammed Saif, alleged that the doctors were trying to discharge the victim on February 20 despite his critical condition. “When I resisted, the doctors said they were under pressure and stopped treating my brother,” he told TOI.
 
 The SMS hospital, however, denied the allegations and said proper treatment was given to Siddique.
 
