KOLKATA: The wads of notes or the sealed liquor bottles seized from the vacant Madurdaha flats may be a fit case to start an inquiry on disproportionate assets under the service rules but do not warrant an arrest, say legal experts. Yet, former SP of West Midnapore,  , is taking no chances. Her husband MAV Raju has affirmed an anticipatory bail petition in the high court.

 What’s more, Ghosh has been in touch with senior   leaders in Delhi since the day she put in her papers, fearing an “equal and opposite reaction” from a political system that helped her flourish despite a rap from the Election Commission during the 2014   polls and 2016 assembly elections.
 
 The same system now makes   afraid. A cursory look at the two FIRs — one with Daspur Police and the other with Kharagpur that name Bharati Ghosh along with others — reveal why it is so.
  
  
 The FIR lodged at Kharagpur PS two days ago is based on an old complaint. Basirhat trader Euenus Ali Mandal had moved HC in 2016, complaining that a police inspector had taken away Rs 45 lakh from his car after it met with an accident in Gopiballabhpur. Mandal withdrew the case after he got back a portion of his money. He went to the Kharagpur PS to say that he never got back the remaining amount. According to lawyer Arunava Ghosh, the case is inherently weak. “He has alleged that he contacted Jhargram SP, but she didn’t take action. It can at best be treated as a complaint against police inaction,” said Ghosh.
 
 Trinamool secretary general   declined to comment on the Bharati Ghosh episode, saying that it’s asub judice matter.
 
 The second FIR relates to Ghosh’s alleged role in the cash-for-gold case during demonetisation. Here also she has been implicated though there is no direct evidence of her having a role.
 
 Taking the cue, Trinamool-turned-BJP leader Mukul Roy empathised with Ghosh at the high court on Friday. Roy went to HC to affirm his affidavit-in-opposition in regard to a PIL filed by Bidhannagar Trinamool councillor Debraj Chakrabarty against the security cover provided to Roy. The BJP leader said: “Trinamool is known for its vindictive stance. This government uses people to achieve whatever it wants and dumps them as soon as the work is over.” He pointed out that the once-powerful police officer and the CM’s favourite had conducted the Lok Sabha polls and assembly polls in Jhargram. “Now she has no utility,” Roy said. He, however, claimed that he knew nothing about Bharati’s knocking on the BJP’s doors.
 
 BJP seniors, on the other hand, might be looking for some “classified information/ documents” that Ghosh might have kept with her during her tenure as additional superintendent of police and later superintendent of police Jhargram in 2012.
 
 
