When *Ashok Kumar decided to welcome home a new member in the family, he adopted a rescued dog instead of looking for a pedigreed one. “We always wanted to have a pet in the family. But, at the same time, we were sure about not buying one. When I heard Milo’s story, I just couldn’t resist taking him home. Milo was found by a bunch of students from a private college in the city. When the hostel warden found out that they had a dog in the room, he threw the pup out. The pup was rescued later and we adopted him from an NGO. He is now part of our family,” he says. It looks like Coimbatoreans are gradually switching to   instead of buying  .

 Take the case of homemaker Anitha P as well. “When our 12-year-old dog passed away two years ago, we felt a huge void in our life. It was at the same time that one of the   in our street had littered. While the male pups were quickly adopted, the female pup was left behind. We have adopted her as our own now. She has grown completely attached to the family. She eats and sleeps here. We got her sterilized as well so that there is no stray dog menace in the locality. “Another homemaker A Rathna too recently included a new female pup in the family. “She was really pretty and we just couldn’t leave her. It’s been more than two weeks and she is getting along well with our 6-year-old male dog. There is a special happiness in adopting.”
 
 Mini Vasudevan, managing trustee of the animal welfare organization,  , tells us that the number of people opting to adopt animals is on the rise, especially in the last one year. “There is a lot more awareness today. We used to have adoption camps earlier, but now we are putting up dogs for adoption through foster parents. We go to these houses regularly with a doctor, vaccinate and deworm them. The circle has gotten bigger and now there are more takers for abandoned animals as word spreads. Having said that, there is a still a stigma attached to female pups and a preference for pedigree dogs. That way, we still have a long way to go. If the female pups are spayed, some are willing to adopt.”
 
 Some of the pets have been adopted abroad as well. “We recently sent three dogs to Germany and Switzerland. Bailey (female pup) was in our camp and we had posted about her on social media. We got a request for adoption from Switzerland. There was a lot of paperwork to be done, but she is happily settled in her new home in Europe. In another instance, a guest who had visited a spiritual center in the city befriended two dogs in the locality. She immediately asked us to take care of them until she finished all her paperwork. One of the dogs left the camp last April and the next one in May,” she says.
 
 A former hospital PRO Blossom Felix, who recently adopted two pets- a male and female pup, from HAS tells us that she is completely against buying a pet. “When I walked into the camp, I was totally confused about which animal to adopt. But, I got home two mongrel pups. I had earlier had pedigree dogs but I find these dogs easier to maintain. When I look at them, I can even gauge their moods. I am now encouraging others to adopt a pet rather than buying one.”
 
