MANGALURU: A quartet, including brothers, blinded by their desire to avenge the death of Hindu activist Deepak Rao, who set up on an unconnected hotelier in a near murderous attack are in city police net.

 The four on January 3 night, hours after miscreants hacked to death Deepak at Katipalla, targeted Abdul Bashir, on his way home after closing his hotel at Kottara Chowki and left him for dead, before a neighbor saw him and rushed him to a nearby private hospital.
 
 City police chief T R   announcing the arrests on Saturday named the accused as Shrijith P K, 25 and  , 21 of Uppala and Manjeshwar in Kasaragod district and the brothers – Dhanush Poojary, 22 and Kishan Poojary, 21 of Padil, Mangaluru. The four – friends had congregated for a religious event at Kankanady garadi and decided to avenge Deepak’s death by targeting a person from other community and Bashir was a random target, he noted.
 
 The quartet well averse with the city and its surroundings gathered weapons from the house of the brothers and set out in search of a target, Suresh said, adding they had been to Bashir’s hotel in the past as customers. Noting that the quartet during their preliminary interrogation had confessed that Bashir was a random target, he said police will seek custody on Sunday for detailed interrogation to ascertain if this indeed was the case or it was a pre-meditated attack.
 
 With all the four accused having previous cases against them, Suresh said the city police will obtain information of old and pending cases against the duo from Kasaragod from their counterparts there. The investigations handed over to Valentine D’Souza, ACP CCRB, will ascertain if these accused had anything to do with the assault on Mudasir, who sustained stone injuries near Govindadasa College on the same night.
 
 Asked about investigations into Deepak’s case, Suresh said Manjunath Shetty, ACP (traffic), will get more clarity once the two accused –   and Rizwan, presently undergoing treatment for bullet injuries sustained in police firing to apprehend them, are deemed medically fit for the purpose. “The other accused – Naushad and Mhd Irshan, in police custody, are maintaining they got involved in Deepak’s murder at the insistence of Nawaz and Rizwan,” Suresh noted.
 
 
