NEW DELHI: Punjab National Bank ( ) on Thursday asked fugitive diamantaire   if he had a “concrete and implementable plan” to clear dues, even as it emerged that before the alleged fraud came to light, the Delhi-headquartered lender had begun talks for repayment of an “outstanding” of Rs 30-40 crore by the high-profile businessman.

 
 Responding to Modi’s earlier letter, where he had virtually ruled out any repayment, PNB said, “Your commitment and undertaking for sparing of the total liability was not backed by providing upfront amounts and timelines. However, should you have any concrete and implementable plan, do revert back.”
 
  
  
 
 The letter from the public sector lender also pointed out that the letters of undertakings (LoUs) were issued “illegally and in an unauthorised” manner by a few bank employees. “At no stage were such facilities extended by our bank to the three partner firms. When these illegal activities surfaced, they pointed towards apparent violation of   and money laundering aspect. As required by law, the bank was compelled to bring their activities to the notice of law and enforcement agencies, which the bank did.”
 
 On February 13, Modi had made the offer which PNB managing director Sunil Mehta had described as “vague”. A few days later, Modi wrote to PNB, saying the bank’s overzealousness in reporting the issue and the subsequent action by government agencies had resulted in his companies ceasing to be going concerns. 
 
 “Your actions have destroyed my brand and the business and have now restricted your ability to recover all the dues, leaving a trail of unpaid debts,” Modi had written, while estimating the amount owed to banks at under Rs 5,000 crore.
 
 Sources told TOI that in January, before the scam came to light, bank executives had discussed the issue of loan repayment and Modi had promised to clear the dues in a few days. Last week, PNB had said the bank had extended credit facility of around Rs 1,700 crore to companies owned by Modi and  , the promoter of Gitanjali Gems and also accused of being part of the LoU fraud. 
 
 Following discussions with Modi, bank executives kept waiting for four-five days but the promised payment did not materialise. 
 
