HUBBALLI: While candidates of all prominent parties are busy in rallies and roadshows telling people about the facilities that they have provided or are going to provide, citizens in the twin cities are struggling to get a drop of water. While some areas are getting drinking water once a week, several areas are getting it just once in a fortnight.

 According to sources in the Karnataka Water Board (KWB) and HDMC, the twin cities are facing a severe water crisis for the fifth consecutive summer. Though the water crisis started in January itself, people allege there were no attempts to tackle the matter by   or   authorities.
 
 Residents of areas like Old Hubballi, Keshwapur, Gokul Road, Vidyanagar, Unkal Cross and central   are bearing the brunt of the water shortage. Water is being supplied just once in 10-15 days. Earlier, they used to get water once in four-five days. Whatever little water that is being supplied is also polluted as sewage is getting mixed with the drinking water pipelines, residents allege.
 
 “There are some areas in Hubballi, where the 24x7   sceme is being implemented. The administration should think about distributing that water equally to all wards instead of supplying it to a few areas. Water should be supplied for at least two hours per day in all the areas,” said Sudha Gangadhar, a resident of Keshwapur.
 
 “Whenever water is supplied, a power cut worsens the situation as we are unable to lift the water to our overhead tanks. KWB should supply water in coordination with Hescom to ensure power supply during water supply,” urged Deepa Suresh, a resident in Bhuvaneshwari Nagar. 
 
 “We are paying a hefty amount for water tankers due to unscheduled and delayed water supply. If this situation continues any longer, we will lose a large part of our earnings for water,” said Shivprakash Patil, a resident of Ghantikeri.
 
 KWB sources said that there is no water left in Neersagar and the only means to get water to the twin cities is from Malaprabha, which currently has only a little of water. “This inturn is affecting water supply in the twin cities,” they added.
 
 When contacted, K Raghavendra, chief engineer, KWB,  , said KWB is still trying to find a solution to the water problem.
 
 
