LUDHIANA: With Ludhiana witnessing the worst fire incident at   in November 2017 which claimed 16 lives, including 9 firemen, the local bodies department is likely to conduct a   in the city.

 In a recommendation to Karnesh Sharma, director, local bodies department, who is also handling the charge of director fire brigade directorate, MC commissioner   has sought fire audit.
 
 In the audit, the department can check structures of commercial establishments, whether construction has been done as per fire norms or owners have procured the fire NOC or not.
 
 Intriguingly, the MC was supposed to conduct a survey regarding industrial buildings to check all the illegalities, but the officials did not start the survey. The officials had taken the plea they would conduct any survey after seeing the report of divisional commissioner   who was to conduct probe after the recent fire tragedy in Mushtaqganj.
 
 Recently, the local bodies department had issued orders for fire audit in   in which assistant town planners were appointed even from outside MCs. In this survey, the officials were supposed to check whether structures of the commercial establishments are fulfilling the fire norms and they have got the regular inspections done through fire officials or not. The Ludhiana MC commissioner has recommended similar audit of buildings in industrial town.
 
 Except a few big hotels, malls and hospitals which have got NOCs from fire brigade, most of the industrial units don’t follow any fire safety norm.
 
 MC commissioner Jaskiran Singh said though a separate directorate is underway for the fire brigade department, he has brought the irregularities in the commercial establishments in the knowledge of the local bodies director. He said he has asked for an audit to ensure the fire safety arrangements in the city.
 
 Meanwhile, one of the officials claimed that there was requirement of issuing strict directions to the industries, shops, restaurants and other commercial establishments to fulfill the fire norms. He said recently major fire incidents were reported in Mumbai and Bangalore as well where irregularities were found. He said there should be a check in the city as well.
 
 
