SECUNDERABAD: Robbery in moving trains, peddling of contrabands like  ,   on women passengers, are on a rapid rise in Telangana. And this, despite police personnel being deployed in trains and railway platforms.

 According to official records, a total of 660 criminal cases pertaining to theft, kidnap, cheating, doping, physical assault and illegal transportation of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances etc were lodged with the government railway police (GRP) in the state last year. Most of the cases were reportedfrom  , Secunderabad, Nampally, Kazipet and Warangal among other stations, records reveal.
 
 
  
  
 
 While cops have been able to crack 253 of these crime still date, as many as 407 cases are still pending. “Many offenders fabricate their address at the time of seeking bails and later, it becomes difficult for us to trace their whereabouts. We have zeroed in on 250 persons who had produced fake addresses. They are mostly residents of other states like Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Odisha,” a source told TOI.
 
 However, offences like theft and snatching are committed more in running trains, including jam-packed passenger trains and  . The official documents of GRP evincethat 423theftcaseshave been reported in running trains, while the figure for the same offence stands at 237 in “stationary” trains (when trains are standing at platforms or get stuck at a red signal inbetween two stations).
 
 Police sources said that while passengers onboard mail, express and passenger trains including MMTS appear to be vulnerable to variousoffences, the rate of crimes or illegal activities at platforms or inside railway premises is on a decline. “Only one rape and one murder case were reported to GRP in Kacheguda,” added a senior police officer.
 
 However, there has been a spike in the offence of peddling ganja and other contrabands through trains. The GRPofficialssaidthat they have registered 58 cases under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act (NDPS Act). “The total amount of property loss complained to the GRP in the state stood at over ₹4 crore and as of now, we have recovered properties like gold and other valuables worth over ₹78 lakh. While the recovery stands at 7.07%, the percentage of detection is 58,” said a GRP officer.
 
 
