VIJAYAWADA:   transactions have acquired menacing proportions across  , and particularly in  . Auditors and consultants are willing to offer ‘professional benami’ services to help officials and businessmen to hide their ill-gotten wealth. 

 According to   (ACB) sources, almost all disproportionate asset cases they file have some form of benami transaction involved. “There are two types of benami transactions,” a senior official in ACB, told TOI, under the condition of anonymity. “One is where accused officers keep their ill-gotten wealth with a person on commission or purely on trust basis. In the other, the ill-gotten wealth is shown as a certain person’s property without his/her knowledge. This is a type of identity theft.” 
 
 In Vijayawada, and rest of the state, most benami transactions happen on the basis trust, where cash or valuables are hidden in bank lockers of friends or relatives. There are cases, where the accused takes a registered mortgage from the benami person, so that the latter doesn’t grab the tainted wealth. 
 
 Though the Benami Transactions (Prohibition) Amended Act, 2016, was implemented some time ago, corrupt officials use loopholes in the system to hide their wealth and evade action. In some cases, bankers have been found to be involved in facilitating the culprits for identity theft. The suspects create bank accounts in the name of other account holders without their knowledge, and stash the wealth in that account. 
 
 In June 2004, C Kishore Lal (30), a chocolate vendor in Vijayawada, came under income tax scanner for allegedly stashing more than Rs 18 crore in his bank account. Kishore was served a notice by the I-T department to explain the huge transactions in his bank account. Kishore, who goes door-to-door selling chocolates, and owns a small place to keep his stock, was shocked when he received the notice. He told I-T officials that there was no way he could accumulate Rs 18,14,98,815 that reflected the bank account, through his meagre daily income. The I-T department understood that Kishore had nothing to do with amount, and they started investigating the role of the bank into the incident. 
 
 Another startling case ACB officials stumbled upon was that of Doddapaneni Venkaiah Naidu, a sub-registrar in Vizag. Officials found that Naidu divorced his wife, and transferred most of his Rs 75 crore-worth properties under her name. However, both continued to live in the same house. While the divorce remained on paper, the wife argued in court that the assets on her name had nothing to do with Naidu. 
 
 Officials admit that benami transactions are difficult to unearth unless thorough searches are done, or if there is a third-party intervention.  , a city-based chartered accountant, said a lot of people take help of CAs in creating shell companies to establish a benami network, some of which have links all the way to the US.
 
 
