NAGPUR: Although Friday was a working day, it wasn't business as usual on  .

 Over 300 commercial establishments, vegetable and fruit vendors, cobblers and kiosks on the stretches from Old Katol Naka to New Katol Naka and   to Gorewada Square downed their shutters on Day 1 of the two-day protests to oppose proposed widening of Katol Road by National Highways Authority of India (NHAI).
 
 The protest, launched from Hanuman Mandir premises, was near-total with three petrol pumps and medical stores too responding to the call given by Gittikhadan   Friends Colony Vyapari Sangh. On Saturday, traders and residents, whose shops and homes are likely to be demolished for the widening, would be marching towards city MP and union minister Nitin  's Ravi Nagar bungalow at 10am.
 
 The Sangh claimed so far their appeals had gone unheeded but warned of intensifying the agitation if talks with Gadkari fail.
 
 The Sangh pegged the losses between Rs 50lakh to Rs 1.5crore because of the bandh. On Friday, the protest was peaceful with most of the affected traders and shopkeepers staging a sit-in at Hanuman Mandir premises.
 
 The Sangh volunteers kept patrolling both the stretches throughout the day on bikes and requested those who had opened their shops to extend support. The otherwise congested squares wore deserted look with even auto drivers from the area keeping off the road.
 
 The agitators led by Mahesh and Raju Khandelwal said no political party had extended support to their cause. But, they said, on Saturday local MLA Sudhakar Deshmukh and 16 corporators would be accompanying them to Gadkari’s residence.
 
 The shopkeepers and traders initiated the campaign after they came to know of the transfer of the road from state PWD to NHAI and the latter’s plans to widen it. They said widening the road would only displace hundreds of families and businesses leading to unemployment in the area and not help ease traffic jams. They also said accidents will rise on the relatively safe stretch due to four-lanning.
 
 “There are several alternate routes available and NHAI could work on them rather than displacing so many people who are directly and indirectly benefitting from the establishments on Katol Road,” they said.
 
 A vegetable vendor from Borgaon said they were supporting the protest since they wanted to send a strong message of solidarity to the government. “We are united in this fight though the road widening won’t affect us directly. In future, the government may try to bulldoze us too when they widen the Gorewada Road and that time we will need greater support,” she said.
 
 
