CHIKKODI: The   government’s decision to strike at the BJP’s vote bank, the   community, by recommending a minority religion tag for them, has caused ripples in the election narrative in north Karnataka, with pontiffs entering the fray to work both for and against it.
 
  While pontiffs belonging to the Veerashaiva faction, the Lingayat sub-group that has been kept out of the minority religion tag, are working in favour of the BJP, the non-Veerashaiva Lingayat pontiffs are working in favour of the Congress. Veerashaivas are said to be an estimated 20% of the 85 lakh Lingayat population.
  
  The districts of Belagavi (including Chikkodi) , Vijayapura, Bagalkote and Dharwad, called “Bombay Karnataka” as they form the northwestern part of Karnataka bordering Maharashtra, are dominated by Lingayats who control the voting patterns in most of the region’s 50 constituencies. These districts have turned a battleground for Veerashaiva and non-Veerashaiva Lingayat pontiffs.
  
  “The government’s decision does not have much impact. We are still voting the way we would have,” said Basanagouda Lakanagouda Patil, a Veerashaiva, at Manjari village. “I am a Veerashaiva. But I am a Congress party worker. I will not change my loyalty or my vote, but I wish (chief minister)   had not done this divisive move to separate Veerashaivas from Lingayats,” Patil said.
  
  His friend Babu Karadapure agreed. “We have different ideologies and political affiliations. We are all sitting together today. This kind of divisions will ensure internal battles within society and we hold the Congress responsible for that,” he said.
  
  BJP has made its stand clear through national president   who told a group of anti-division pontiffs that his party and the central government will not allow it. And   workers have been asking people not to vote for Siddaramaiah.
  
  Veerashaiva pontiffs are adding pressure through their own means.
  
  “A pontiff, who would only sit on a decorated throne on a stage, is now coming to street corners, standing or sitting on dirty, cheap plastic chairs and asking people not to vote for Congress,” said a Lingayat voter in Kamatagi of Bagalkote district, who declined to be named.
  
  The main target of Veerashaivas are two ministers in the Siddaramaiah’s cabinet –– MB Patil and Vinay Kulkarni –– who led the demand for the Lingayat religion status.
  
  In MB Patil’s constituency Babaleshwar, locals said a Veerashaiva pontiff was visiting homes of devotees, accepting the pada pooja (washing of feet) services and making them swear to him that they will not vote for the Congress. Patil’s followers in Babaleshwar have even filed a complaint to the election commission.
  
  Kulkarni’s constituency of Dharwad Rural has more overriding problems –– 81 murders were recorded during his tenure and little attention has been given to the woeful lack of infrastructure. “There is a perception that these factors may work more against Kulkarni than the Lingayat one. But Veerashaiva pontiffs are working hard against him also,” a Congress leader said.
  
  To counter this, there are prodivision Lingayat pontiffs who are said to be working more subtly, telling their followers that they had to repay Siddaramaiah for fulfilling their decades-old demand for a separate religion status.
  
  
  In MB Patil’s constituency Babaleshwar, locals said a senior Veerashaiva pontiff was visiting homes of devotees, accepting the pada pooja (washing of feet as a respectful offering) services and making them swear to him that they will not vote for the Congress. Patil’s followers in Babaleshwar have even filed a complaint to the state election commission stating this.
  
  Kulkarni’s constituency of Dharwad Rural has more over-riding problems ––81 murders were recorded his tenure and little attention has been given to the woeful lack of infrastructure. “There is a perception that these factors may work more against Kulkarni than the Lingayat one. But Veerashaiva pontiffs are working hard against him also,” a Congress local leader told ET.
  
  To counter it, there are pro-division Lingayat pontiffs who are said to be working more subtly, telling their followers that they had to repay Siddaramaiah for fulfilling their decades-old demand for a separate religion status. A couple of them have openly come out and said so too.
  
  “These elements are working and may fetch us some votes. But our Congress party has not communicated effectively how the Lingayat minority tag will help our people and what the good intentions are behind the move. We have allowed BJP to work its divisive narrative and not told the people what we have done for them,” a Congress MLA from the region rued.
  
  The overall assessment from both parties and from what locals say is that the minority tag issue may not have a huge impact on the elections. “Some votes may go to the Congress, but they will not lose much except in constituencies dominated by Veerashaivas where they have sitting MLAs. Still, there may be good consolidation for the BJP as the Congress has failed to counter their ‘divisive’ plank. The picture is not clear yet,” a JD(S) leader, who does not have much stakes in the issue, said.
  
  
  
