HYDERABAD: He would often man traffic to cut gridlock on a busy   road, be a Good Samaritan to neighbours or even turn a Santa for the underprivileged. On Sunday morning this 75-year-old veteran with defence forces was found charred to death on a cot amidst piles of books and papers in his flat at Huda Colony. Police suspect a burning cigarette stub may have triggered the blaze and flames engulfed him in his sleep.

 
  police said exserviceman Srisailam Mallikarjun’s burnt body was found at his Vijayasri Apartment, which was his home since 2004.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 Around 7am, Mallikarjun’s wife Rohini, 69, got up and went to his bedroom to serve tea. She saw smoke emitting from the thin gap beneath the door.   panicked and knocked the door repeatedly, but there was no response. She immediately alerted a neighbour, who broke open the door only to find Mallikarjun’s charred remains on the bed and flames still licking his body. The couple’s children live in the US.
 
 “The veteran and his wife would sleep in separate rooms at their three-bedroom flat. Mallikarjun bolted his bedroom door from inside. He would wake up early and read. He was also addicted to cigarettes. After a smoke, he may have dropped the stub and slipped into sleep. The cigarette butt might have triggered the fire. Investigation is still on to ascertain the cause of fire,’’ Asif Nagar sub-inspector P   said. Fire officials were called in to douse the blaze.
 
 Investigators were also ascertaining whether there was any short circuit from an air-conditioner, which was half burnt. There were papers below the AC. However, officials have almost ruled out the short circuit angle since lights and other appliances in other rooms were functioning.
 
 Mallikarjun’s death shocked residents as he was dubbed “a traffic cop without uniform”. Often, the veteran would volunteer to man traffic or rush to places whenever he came to know about a traffic jam.
 
 Assistant commissioner of police (Asif Nagar)   told TOI that locals and officials, who were acquainted with Mallikarjun through his social work, were amazed at his high energy levels though he was 75 years.
 
 “Mallikarjun was always seen on a bicycle, running errands or otherwise. If he notices a traffic jam, he used to go to the junction and help motorists,” Asif Nagar SI Venkateshwarlu said. The ex-serviceman, who was a regular at mythri meetings, used to advise people on traffic rules.
 
 The couple’s children may return to the city in a day or two. Police registered a case under Section 174 (suspicious death) of CrPC.
 
