Bhupendra Singh Tomar, head constable,  , continued to do his duty and saved an injured man’s life despite getting the news of his daughter’s death.

  Remember Ishaan’s father in Taare Zameen Par? Vipin Sharma, who played a disciplinarian dad in the 2007 movie, is back as a father – only this time he’s a constable with the UP Police who chose his duty over heading home after hearing the news of his daughter’s death. The five-minute film On Duty is based on the story of 57-year-old  . He was on patrol duty on UP 100 when he was informed of a man who had been stabbed. While taking the man to the hospital, he got another call about the death of his 27-year-old daughter. Bhupendra decided to first go to the hospital to admit the injured person before heading home.
 
 
 
  
  Bhupendra Singh Tomar
 
 
 
 Scripted by Rahul Srivastav, PRO to UP DGP, and directed by  , the short film was shot in just one day. Talking about the film, Tigmanshu told us, “UP Police’s PR department contacted me for this short movie and   gave me the script. They were in a hurry and they wanted the movie in a day, so I told them that I will be shooting in Lucknow and we can do it then. I have done research on cop films and have directed films on cops earlier. The condition of cops is really bad in our country. They don’t get enough time to sleep and their problems are hardly in focus. So when I got to know about this short film, I immediately agreed. It was my chance to tell the other side of the story. We shot the entire day and finished post-production work in the night and delivered it to them in one day.”
 
  
  
 
  The short film will be screened at schools and colleges across UP.
 
  
  Tigmanshu Dhulia
 
 
  
  
 
 
 Talking about the incident, Bhupendra Singh Tomar had earlier said, “Leave the dead behind and save those alive is the credo that I follow. I don’t think I have done anything exceptional.”
 
  
  Vipin Sharma plays Bhupendra Singh Tomar in the film titled 'On Duty'
 
  Even as Tomar is surprised that a film has been made on his life, the UP Police call it an act of exceptional courage. Rahul said, “When OP Singh, DGP UP, got to know about the incident, he called Tomar and hailed him as the hero of the UP Police. And it was his idea that we should make a film on his story after which I wrote the script and contacted Tigmanshu Dhulia to shoot the short film for us. The DGP’s commendation disc has been bestowed on Tomar for his work.”
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
