MADURAI: They come in various hues and are a key ingredient of decorations, if not a status symbol for many. Now, orchid cultivation is catching up in Kanyakumari where the climatic conditions have been found to be very conducive for the plant. One of the most preferred varieties of this famed plant for people in the southernmost tip of the state is “crucifix orchid”. 

 Commonly known as ‘Holy Cross’ flower, it is one of the easiest orchids to cultivate. “Crucifix orchid flower resembles ‘Holy Cross’ and grows in bunches. Though we cannot say that it blooms only in Easter season, it has become an attraction during the season,” says J Stanly of Nagercoil. He has been cultivating over 200 varieties of orchids since 1968. 
 
 Known by the species name Epidendrum Radicans, crucifix orchid has tough leathery leaves and long thin stem. The flower lasts about seven to 10 days or till a pollinator disturbs it after which it starts withering. The long lasting nature is one reason why the orchid is preferred as a decorative flower. Unlike some orchids, this variety is an epiphyte with aerial roots. 
 
 The common name ‘Holy Cross’ orchid refers to the lip of the flower called the labellum which resembles a cross. It easily grows in tropical or sub-tropical climate or in warm protected places in temperate zones. It can tolerate any dry climate and prefers to remain frost-free. It flowers in clusters perennially in warmer climatic conditions and can be grown in pots or dappled shade too. The cluster of the starry flowers appears at the end of each stem and comes in colours like red, orange, yellow, purple, white and salmon.
 
 “This is a perfect orchid for beginners as it can be grown in any free-draining mix in pots or the garden, or simply tucked into a crockery. 
 
 Unlike, other orchid varieties it is highly disease-resistant also. “The species originated in the   and the USA,”says S S Davidson, a member of the  . 
 
 According to him, orchids have a key role in decorations and were considered as a status symbol in sophisticated areas. “Orchids have a number of hybrids with many hues and colours. The orchid show we conducted had about 4,000 entries and around 200 varieties of the flower were on display,” he added. 
 
 
