KOLKATA: While senior railway officials seem confident that availability of funds will not come in the way of an additional 50-odd km of   network in Kolkata by 2020, they don’t seem so sure about other development projects in Bengal. Union finance minister Arun   specifically announced allocations for Mumbai and Bengaluru suburban sections but nothing came up regarding Kolkata’s suburban network.

 Jaitley on Thursday proposed to allocate Rs 11,000 crore to improve suburban services in Mumbai, including doubling of tracks along 90kms. An additional amount of Rs 40,000 crore will be allocated to expand the network by a further 150kms. In addition, Rs 17,000cr will be spent to develop 160km of suburban network to reduce congestion in Bengaluru.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 “The Mumbai suburban network is used by about 7.6 million people daily. Nearly 3.5 million people use the Kolkata suburban network. Nearly 20% of people working in Kolkata’s   alone commute from the suburbs. Yet, the city’s suburban network is a picture of neglect. No significant steps have been taken to enhance capacity in Kolkata’s suburban network. As more frequent services can’t be run, 12-coach EMU locals are now being run instead of nine or 10-coach ones to accommodate more commuters. But the number keeps on increasing,” a Railways official said.
 
 When plans were made to extend the north-south Metro corridor to places like   and Barrackpore, the idea was to reduce pressure on suburban services. The Metro, however, has not yet managed to reach Dakshineswar or the airport from where links to   and Barasat were planned.
 
 Officials also don’t see much into Jaitley’s announcement of escalators at all stations with a footfall of over 25,000. According to an official, construction of escalators at such stations were planned earlier and some have been commissioned.
 
 “There have been some positive announcements in the safety front though. There was a demand for Train Protection and Warning Systems (TPWS) and it has been announced that 150km under Eastern, South Central, North Central, Southern and South Eastern Railways will be covered. Issuance of more ‘Fog Passes’ was also a welcome move,” said another official.
 
