Chennai: After the   fiasco, biology seems to have lost its sheen among students applying for Class XI in Tamil Nadu   with computer science gaining more prominence among science aspirants.

 For non-science students, business maths and commerce have emerged the most sought-after courses, say teachers and students. "Of the 500 applications we received on Wednesday, nearly 300 were for computer science group. Another 150 applied for business maths and commerce and less than 50 applied for bio-maths and computer science," said C Velusamy, headmaster of a government higher secondary school in Trichy. 
 
 The trend was no different when it came to private matriculation schools as well, said R Vishalakshi, president of Tamil Nadu Private Matriculation Schools Association. "Only those who are keen on pursuing medicine have expressed interest towards biology courses". 
 
 A government-aided school headmaster from Kancheepuram said many students found this year’s biology paper tough as they were unable to simultaneously balance the state board syllabus and NEET preparation. "So, they have intentionally avoided applying for biology courses. All the four core subjects in bio-maths group are tough. So, it is better to avoid the risk and opt for computer science," said S Jeya, a Class 10 student from Madurai. Government has revamped higher secondary computer science education this year. According orders issued on Wednesday, three different types of computer science courses will be made available to science, arts and vocational students.
 
 M Chandran from Post Graduates Teachers’ Association said that besides employment opportunities after completing BSc or BCom, many find business maths easy. 
 
 However, the issue here is that not many government schools have enough commerce teachers and some do not offer the course, said a district education officer requesting anonymity. "The government should fill these vacant positions in the forthcoming teacher counselling as promised". 
 
 
