NAGPUR: Once upon a time, being attracted to the same gender provided very little opportunities to seek companionship. “If one wished to look for a partner, his resources were very limited and social stigma added to the problem. We would go to certain designated spots in the city to meet and greet our community members with utmost precaution. But the winds have changed with mobile dating apps providing various options to find love, friends, communicate and have fun,” said  , founder of   which works for LGBTQs in the city.

 In the age of smart phones, online dating apps are catching up with the Lesbian, Gay, Transgender, Bisexual, Queer (LGBTQ) community playing a vital role in providing companionship and safety. City millenials and even non-millenials are socializing through the dating apps with a host of mobile applications opening up the community to exciting, new possibilities.
 
 Online dating has evolved to a great extent after the launch of shaadi.com in 1996 in India. Interestingly, the LGBTQ community was far ahead of their heterosexual counterparts in terms of dating with the worldwide launch of the queer dating app ‘Planet Romeo’ in 2002. Current data states that the app has around 3 million users worldwide and India constitutes around 7% of its users. Comparatively, recent data suggests that the straight community were not serious about the online dating scenario until the past few years. 
 
 Sensing the rise in online dating, Tinder too expanded its horizons and added the same sex dating feature in its applications. Other primary applications include Grindr, Okcupid, Scruff and many more. Grindr announced in 2015 that its users in the country increased by 50% while city experts cite that the increase is around 70% in our region.
 
 Meet Wasnik (name changed), an engineer graduate, said, “Myriad features offers a channel to meet like-minded individuals and connect. Unlike old times, we can go on a date with the person of our choice without compromising our safety. Social stigma can also be avoided through this medium.”
 
 Law student   (name changed) said, “Though the app also caters for casual sexual interactions, love is the primary motive for most. I have come across numerous creative and amazing people through the app and it is the main reason for my three-year-old relationship.”
 
 The apps uses geo-location features and connects the individual with other queer community members with the defined radius. But with the application providing gateway for companionship, it also offers easy access to the identities of the queer men.
 
 “We need to be very cautious as there are numerous fake profiles on the app and, of physical violence and extortion having occurred. Unfortunately, most of them go unreported for obvious reasons. The app is a boon for the community members but every coin has two sides and safety measures need to be looked into,” added Chandrani.
 
 
