GURUGRAM: Huda kicked off the annual spring   on Saturday, almost a week before Holi. The two-day event is taking place in  .

 Different types of colourful flowers — from roses to carnations, lilies to dahlias — have been put up for display. Even as the temperatures were a tad higher than usual, hundreds of people flocked to the annual spring festival.
 
 Asked about the impact of the weather on the footfall, Huda officials said the festival is conducted every year in spring, when the temperatures are milder. “Though there is a slight increase in temperature this year, it did not have much impact on the blooming of flowers,” said an official.
 
 The flower show was inaugurated by the deputy commissioner of Gurugram, Vinay Pratap Singh. “We have a proposal for a flower mandi in Gurugram to meet the demands of flowers across NCR. Events like these give flower farmers the platform and the required exposure,” said Singh.
 
 Flowers of more than 200 categories are being displayed in the show and around 700 people participated in different activities and competitions on the first day. There were around 50 stalls selling horticultural products such as manure, saplings, seeds and more.
 
 On Sunday, multiple competitions will be held, including flower pot decorations and garden décor, among others. Stalls will also be set up for gathering information on how to grow and maintain flowers.
 
 “To ensure that the people visiting the flower show are entertained well, we have arranged for various cultural programmes, including singing performances and comedy shows that will be held on the second day of the event,” said a Huda spokesperson.
 
 Different programmes have been arranged for the entertainment of children, such as magic shows, swings, baby shows, rangoli competition and fancy dress. 
 
 For the food lovers, various stalls have been set up with regional cuisine on offer.
 
 Huda officials said that with every passing year, the turnout at the flower show has been increasing as the awareness among the public has been rising.
 
