AHMEDABAD: It was a  , 10, a resident of Danilimda, Ahmedabad, when in April 2014, his hand slipped off his mother Sairabanu’s hand at Sultanpur Railway station in Uttar Pradesh. He and his mother had got down from the train to get some water on way to their native village near Ballia for a marriage ceremony.

 While the little boy was found by Railway Protection Force which helped him get on the train, trouble did not end for Mehfooz.
 
 “Instead of being able to contact his parents on the train, little Mehfooz reached Patna Junction instead of Ballia,” said advocate  , who was instrumental in getting Mehfooz reunited with his family after four long years.
 
 However, nothing would have been possible had not Mehfooz gathered courage and apprached a juvenile court judge, who had gone to visit the child protection home where Mehfooz was kept. After returning home, Mehfooz said, “They took good care of me at the child protection home but ignored my pleas to return to my family.”
 
 “On several occasions, Mehfooz told the protection home officials that he is from Ahmedabad and wants to get back to his family, but his pleas went unheeded. Until November last year, when the juvenile court judge visited the protection home, he had no hope,” said advocate Gandhi.
 
 When the judge visited the home, Mehfooz gathered courage and went straight up to him and narrated his tale saying that the officials were not listening to his pleas to return him to his family in Ahmedabad, said advocate Gandhi.
 
 “The judge lost no time in directing local administration to make ever effort to reunite the boy with his family. The administration swung into action and informed CID crime, Gujarat, and also an NGO with the image of the boy and address of Chandola lake,” advocate Gandhi said.
 
 On their part, CID crime, Gujarat and other state government departments began a search for Mehfooz’s family and reached them. “A team of NGO staff started scanning the streets of Chandola lake area with the picture of Mehfooz. Here, they came into contact with advocate Gandhi and arranged with the administrations of Gujarat and   the formalities to bring back Mehfooz,” said Mehfooz’s father.
 
 Mahfooz’s father, who works as a cook, said his family had lost all hope of again seeing their beloved Mehfooz. “But for the sincere efforts of the juvenile court judge, CID crime Gujarat, and Gujarat government, we wouldn’t have been able to get our son back after four long years,” Shaikh said.
 
 Advocate Gandhi said, a twist in the tale was there before they could bring the boy back. Bihar administration told them that they can’t provide escort for the boy. “After a long wait, we left for Patna on January 8 and went straight to the child protection home. After a tearful reunion with his parents, the boy was brought back owing to the sincere efforts of Gujarat police and administration,” said advocate Gandhi.
 
 With tears in his eyes, Mehfooz’s father said, “Look at him. He was a small boy when he got lost and now he looks so big.”
 
 
