GURUGRAM: Residents of   had to endure a day-long power outage on Friday due to what the discom termed as ‘preventive maintenance’. But residents complained about the arbitrary nature of blackouts effected by the discomas these power cuts come on the heels of rising temperatures and humid conditions.

 New Palam Vihar is part of Sector 110 and has around 2,500 houses. The residents claimed the power situation in the area was worsening.Residents spoke to TOI on Saturday and said that the power crises are worsening. “Yesterday, the   started around 9am and stopped by between 4 and 4:30pm. This technically means we were without power for the entire day. After 4:30 much of our daily work comes to an end. We require electricity during morning and afternoon hours,” said  , a resident.
 
 In a fresh notice on Saturday, discom alerted residents about power cuts between 9am and 5pm on Sunday in areas that receive supplies from the 66kv sub-station in Sector 10A.
 
 But, discom officials said such power cuts would end soon as the department was likely to wrap up its maintenance work in a few days. 
 
 “After these disruptions, there will be a robust supply. We have installed 300 transformers in the new Gurugram circle. Our installed capacity now stands at 2,800 MVA,” said KC Aggarwal, superintendent engineer new Gurugram circle 
 
 Residents said that minor outages have occurred over the last few weeks, they have ignored their frequency believing it is part of a routine work as was explained by the discom. “But when there are unscheduled power cuts for the whole day, it becomes unacceptable,” said Sushil Yadav, another resident of Sector 110A. “Summers are here yet and we are encountering such problems. I hope that this summer, discom doesn’t harass us with the frequent power cuts.”
 
 Meanwhile, officials of new Gurugram circle told TOI, “The disruptions are simply a prelude to a robust power supply. We have installed around 300 transformers in the New Gurugram circle at the cost of around Rs 3 crore. The transformers are of 100 – 530 kV and will enhance the total capacity of our existing infrastructure by 30 MVA. Our installed capacity currently stands at 2800 MVA,” said KC Aggarwal, superintendent engineer new Gurugram circle.
 
 
