NASEERPUR/AZAMGARH: For past 10 years, 55-year-old   Khan has lived her life in   divided between two goals: a lingering hope to see her middle son  , an accused in  , and to secure livelihood for her other sons.

 A day after security forces arrested Ariz from Nepal border, his widowed mother doesn’t mince her words to describe the travails following   encounter in the September of 2008 that changed the life for the family.
 
 “The terror taint killed the dream of my youngest son Tabish. He wanted to become a doctor. He was planning to study at a premier medical institute to prepare for medical entrance exams in Delhi. But I got scared of losing another son. I had already lost a husband,” says Tabassum as she weeps while pointing towards a framed photograph of the family.
 
 While Tabish had to settle for a part-time pharmacist’s job at the hospital run by his father, Tabassum’s other son Shariq managed to continue with his job as information technology (IT) engineer in Noida.
 
 Both Shariq bhai and Ariz bhai wanted to be IT engineers from the same SD college in Muzaffarpur. Sadly, only my eldest brother could complete his BTech and find a job in Delhi, while Ariz bhai’s involvement in Batla House encounter in his second year college came as a shock to us,” recalls Tabish.
 
 Despite her strong credentials as a teacher in a local school and armed with a masters in sociology from Shibli National College, Tabassum says she could never move beyond the shock of Ariz’s alleged induction into terror outfit Indian Mujahideen (IM).
 
 Within a month of Ariz’s disappearance, she quit her job as schoolteacher. Quietly over the last couple of years, the family has now set up two small fishing ponds to earn their livelihood. The pond grows 700kg of fish every year, of seasonal Katli and Pyaas breed, leaving the family just about Rs80,000 a year.
 
 “In between, the visits from state police from Rajasthan, UP, Delhi and Maharashtra keep us busy. If Ariz is guilty, he must be punished. If he is not, we will fight the case legally,” says Tabassum.
 
 The family says that they are content that despite such incidents, Azamgarh has maintained communal harmony. “While we could not build a house due to lack of money, we separated our walls to form a passageway for washermen (Kanaujia community) to take the bodies of dead people and also cycles of their schoolgoing kids,” says Tabish
 
 
