KOCHI: The National Investigation Agency ( ) court in Kochi convicted 18 people, including the founder member of banned   ( ) Safdar Nagori, for organising an arms training camp at Wagamon in  's Kottayam district in 2007.

 
 Special NIA court judge Kauser Edappagath on Monday convicted the 18 men under the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act, Explosives Substances Act and Section 120-B (criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC), and acquitted 17 others in the case.
 
 The court will pronounce the quantum of punishment on Tuesday.
 
 From December 10 to 12 in 2007, around 40 SIMI activists had gathered at a secret camp at Thangalpara where they received training on handling firearms and explosives and engaging in covert terror operations. They were also ideologically indoctrinated in jihadi philosophy. Logistics for the camp was provided by two brothers from neighbouring Eratupetta, one of whom, P A Saduli, was the first accused in the case.
 
 Of the 38 accused, 36 faced trial. While one accused, Mehaboob Shiekh, was shot dead when he attempted to escape from jail in Bihar, another (Wasiq Billa) is suspected to have fled to Pakistan. Abdul Subhin Qureshi, 35th accused in the case,6 who has been absconding for several years, was arrested recently and brought to the NIA court here on April 27.
 
 Six of the convicted are from Karnataka, four from Kerala, three from Madhya Pradesh, two from Jharkhand, and one each from Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat and Mumbai. Most of the acquitted are from Gujarat.
 
 The case was first registered at Mundakayam (in Kerala's Kottayam district) police station in 2008, after which a special investigation team was formed. The case was handed over to NIA in 2010. The accused were charged under Sections 10 (member of the unlawful organisation) and 38 (member associated with terrorist organisation) of the Unlawful Activities Prevention Act (UAPA), Section 120 (b) of the IPC for criminal conspiracy and Section 4 (for possession of explosive substances) of Explosives Substances Act.
 
