The recently released trailer of Sree Vishnu-starrer   has grabbed everyone’s attention with its humour and intensity. After playing the passionate   in   and the wittily confused soul,   in Mental Madhilo, actor   seems to have switched things up a little for this one. if the trailer is anything to go by, his character appears to be a mix of both his previous 
outings. “Sagar, my character in the film, is worried about his life and that makes him more intense. While it was not difficult per se, it was emotionally draining to play him because there is a depth to his character that I had to master,” informs the actor.
 Vishnu says that Sagar is the everyday student who’s struggling to answer the pertinent question that society keeps throwing at him — What next? “The film is the story of his journey as a student and the struggles he faces due to the pressure put on him by the society and his parents,” he says.
 In the film, Sagar is a carefree student who’s always chided by his father for being lazy and unmotivated in life, causing friction between the characters. “While Sagar manages to deal with his problems and find a solution that I think everyone will agree with, the plot deals with the issue of students committing suicide due to the pressure put on them by society and parents. We have to confront the fact that unrealistic expectations stress out students mentally. Through this film we aim to tell the audience that there is much more to life than getting good grades and leading a life that society deems as fit,” he says. 
 Vishnu believes that the concept of the film is such that everyone will be able to connect to it. “Be it the young or old, I believe everyone will connect to the film because of its realistic and relatable content. It does not follow the regular commercial film template and will be devoid of heavily choreographed songs, fights, hero elevation scenes, et al. The audience will find the film fresh because it has been made from the heart,” he says. 
 
