ALWAR: A chilling video of a man beating up his 82-year-old paralytic mother in Shahjahanpur area of Alwar district went viral on social media on Friday. The video was shot about four months ago. The woman had died on January 18.

 The Alwar police said that the man identified in the video was Jogendra Choudhary (50), a school lecturer by profession. He is seen punching his elderly mother, choking her, and even slapping her multiple times. The horrifying act was recorded by his nephew on his mobile phone as he reportedly wanted to expose the treatment meted out to his grandmother, who had been paralytic for the past six months.
 
 Police suspect the elderly woman died as a result of regular trashing by her son. “The video was shot by one of her grandsons from a window. He wanted to expose how his uncle treated his ailing grandmother, who was dependent on the family after a paralytic attack,” an official of Alwar police said.
 
 Police spoke to the grandson who said that he had recorded the video last year. Villagers claimed that a condolence meet was also held on January 27. 
 
 “The villagers who had visited her before she died said she had become very frail and bedridden. It seems that the accused had been torturing her for the past many months,” said Surendra Malik, SHO, Shahjanhapur police station, adding that a case has been filed under sections 323 (voluntarily causing hurt) and 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder).
 
 “After we verified the authenticity of the video, we called Choudhary to come to the police station for questioning. But he did not come, which confirms our suspicion that it was not an isolated case and he had been torturing her mother in the past,” the police official said.
 
 State women’s commission chairperson Suman Sharma said that she has sought a report from the district police about the matter.
 
 “We have also instructed the Dholpur police to investigate a matter pertaining to the attack on a Dalit woman in Bari area and bring the accused to book,” she said.
 
 On Friday, Bari police station in Dholpur had registered a case after a woman alleged that one of her neighbours attacked her, misbehaved and opened fire. The police are now investigating the matter.
 
 
