AHMEDABAD: Shock waves coursed through the   campus after Ruhi Hathidra, a 26-year-old third-year resident doctor, committed suicide on the terrace of the PG hostel building early on Saturday morning. 

 Hathidra, who was pursuing postgraduation in paediatrics ended her life by injecting Propofol, a commonly used anaesthetic in surgical procedures, in her left arm. Police said she was pregnant. 
 
 Police said that Hathidra was reportedly gravely anxious about her preparations for the university exams, scheduled to be held on May 1. Police said that could be the reason for suicide; investigations are under way. 
 
 Sources said Hathidra was found unconscious by her colleagues. She was taken to the hospital but was declared dead. Police have found an empty injection ampoule and four sealed ones from the terrace of the hostel block.
 
 Additional DCP (F Division)   said: “Hathidra was married about two and half years ago to Dr  , an orthopaedic resident doctor. The families of both doctors are from Kanodar near Palanpur.” Police said Hathidra’s father Yunus Hathidra, is also a doctor and resides in Paldi. “Her father has told us that she was stressed about the exams. She had repeatedly complained that she was not able to remember what she was studying,” Gadhiya said. 
 
 Police said that Hathidra’s parents and husband had rushed to the hospital on hearing the news about her suicide. 
 
 “The entire family is in a state of shock and grief,” Gadhiya said. 
 
 “Therefore, we have not been able to record their detailed statements. We have, however, recorded the statement of her room-mate.”
 
 According to police sources, Hathidra was with her room-mate till about 11pm on Friday night in room 407 of the PG hostel of  . 
 
 “The room-mate has said in her statement that she slept at 11pm,” an investigator said. “Till that time, Hathidra was in the room. This means that Hathidra committed suicide either late in the night or early on Saturday morning.” 
 
 Additional commissioner of police (Sector-2) Ashok Yadav said that while it is possible that Hathidra ended her life because of exam anxiety, police are exploring all possible angles. 
 
 “We have currently registered a case of accidental death. The statements of her parents, husband, and in-laws will be recorded once they have performed the last rites,” Yadav said. 
 
 “The postmortem was conducted by a panel doctors and the viscera has been sent to the forensic science laboratory.”
 
 
