NOIDA: A close scrutiny of all applicants of the   benefits is in progress at the Yamuna Expressway Industrial Development Authority ( ) to weed out any builder who may have continued to build during an official stoppage of construction by court orders due to land acquisition disputes during 2011-2012. The builders of the city, however, feel such a step is unfair as they have suffered from financial uncertainties during the period.

 Any builder who may have continued his construction during the period will not be allowed the benefits of the zero period, said YEIDA officials. At YEIDA, a probe is in progress to check builders who have presented their projects for completion during the period or soon after it.
 
 “It is simple logic that if you are presenting a project for completion certification during or soon after the zero period, then construction was in progress during the ban period. How can interest waiver on payments be allowed for that period? You may have either completely stopped work during zero period, or just continued to build and in the latter case, zero period financial benefits in terms of interest waiver will not be applicable,” CEO, YEIDA, Arun Vir Singh told TOI.
 
 Construction work in Noida,   and Yamuna e-way areas have from time to time been disrupted because of litigations including the one by farmers who challenged the land acquisition bids by the authorities. It has also been disrupted by a stay on construction imposed by the ministry of environment and forests (MoEF) around the Okhla bird sanctuary during the period. The eco-sensitive zone was formally determined in 2015.
 
 However, the Confederation of Real Estate Developers Association of India (Credai) feels that such a decision could be counter-productive for the builders. “A decision like this is against the course of natural justice. It was a period of uncertainty for builders. A builder may have put his money and investments on stake. Bank support for the builder during that period was stopped. Marketing and advertising of such disputed projects were stopped. The Authorities had sold land to the builders claiming that land was free of hindrances. So disruption ‘disturbed’ period should be compensated for,” Pankaj Bajaj, president, Credai-NCR, said. According to Bajaj, different projects have been ‘disturbed’ for different periods depending on its location.
 
 “Some projects have been disturbed for a year, some for four years depending on the location and issues overlapping it. The zero period for projects is not flat but specific to project and they should be considered respectively,” Bajaj added.
 
 
