KOCHI: C PM general secretary   said reports about the divide in   leadership were baseless and the party is ‘united like one man’. “Other parties and media don’t understand the process of innerparty democracy in our party. Despite the difference in opinion, we will discuss and reach a collective decision,” Yechury said, while inaugurating a massive rally during the conclusion of CPM state conference.

 Yechury, who criticized delegates for misreading his position on tactical line of the party on Saturday, took the rally as an opportunity to clarify his position and that of the party again. Quoting the draft political resolution, he said CPM has decided to take on BJP as the primary enemy. “In the meantime, we have decided not to have any understanding or electoral alliance with the   because it represents the same economic policies which created ‘two Indias’ in the past. At the time of election, keeping this in mind, suitable electoral tactics will be worked out to maximise anti-BJP votes,” he said.
 
 Yechury didn’t attack the Congress during his speech that focussed on the dangers posed by BJP and RSS. Asking Keralites to stand united for a battle to oust   government, Yechury said Kerala is the only place where a true secular society now exists in India. “My friends in Delhi say if you want to taste different types of cuisine, you have to go to Kerala. The secular society pioneered by Kerala needs to be carried forward. Options before us are light of the future and darkness of the past. While the red flag represents light of the future, RSS wants to take us to darkness of the past,” he said.
 
 The CPM general secretary told the one lakh CPM workers who thronged Thekkinkadu ground that political violence was not the culture of the party. Addressing 25,000 red volunteers who marched to the ground, Yechury said they were here to defend the politics of the party and not to attack anyone. He cautioned cadres not to be deceived by the provocation from  . “They attack us because they see us as the principal enemy of their agenda to divide our country,” Yechury said.
 
 Addressing the rally, chief minister   said the party was freed from the perils of factionalism. He alleged that media reported the proceedings of the conference in non-factual manner. Referring to the reporting of Yechury’s speech on Saturday, Vijayan said the contents of the speech reported by the media were not correct.
 
