DHARAMSHALA: Prolonged political tussle between   has already delayed the creation of permanent campus of the   (CUHP) for last 7 years since its inception in 2010. And now, it is the maps’ which has held the progress of setting up the University in this hill state.

 Five months back in September 2017, a team of the   had inspected the proposed sites for campus at Jadrangal and Dehra. They approved these sites in the same month. Further it was the CUHP and state government which had to complete the process to bring the campus at both places.
 
 Maps were to be prepared, but even after more than 100 days have passed the concerned authorities have failed to come up with the Maps for the varsity.
 
 When contacted, Vijay Choudhary, Executive Engineer Public Works Department (PWD) told TOI that he had been to the CUHP to ask their requirements and process was started after that but few papers are yet awaited from institute.
 
 “A letter was written to them month before on February 1, department has sought some maps which was prepared by them for old site. But they have failed to provide them so far” he added.
 
 The architect department of the PWD was entrusted to design the map for the campus. “Things are underway, we are just awaiting few papers asked from the varsity and it would be done” said Choudhary.
 
 On the other hand, vice-Chancellor of CUHP,   said that department had asked few old maps from the institute, but these were prepared by a agency which was working under  .
 
 “We have already written to the concerned agency in Delhi. They had those designs, these will be handed over to department as our office gets them” he said.
 
 About 500-acre land was proposed for the CUHP campus at Jadrangal. Most of the land allotted was forest land. Maps were required to get clearance forest land for non-forest use. It is granted by the special empowered committee of union ministry.
 
 PWD will prepare the maps in collaboration with varsity, and then state forest department will submit the maps to get clearances. Presently, this institute is running at three different places - Dharamshala, Shahpur and Dehra - in temporary arrangements. 
 
