LUCKNOW: BJP’s loss in the   Lok Sabha byelection, the third in a row after losing Gorakhpur and Phulpur, and also a loss in the Noorpur Assembly seat, is likely to weaken the position of chief minister   Adityanath within the  , and outside.

 
 Questions were raised over the UP chief minister’s leadership and governance after the party’s defeat in Gorakhpur, a seat Yogi held for five terms, against a combined Opposition, when Samajwadi Party and Bahujan Samajwadi Party came together in a historic move to take on the BJP two months ago.
 
 Yogi had then blamed “over confidence” of party workers and electorate of Gorakhpur for the defeat. This time, he held four rallies in Kairana and had six of his cabinet ministers campaigning there. He even held a rally in Noorpur ahead of the polls. But, the saffron party’s debacle in bypolls continued.
 
 “Sugarcane arrears mounted to a staggering Rs 13,000 crore which became a big issue in election-bound west UP. Non-payment of cane dues had angered farmers in west UP and the chief minister failed to smell the rebellion brewing among cane cultivators,” said a general secretary level leader of the BJP, not willing to be named.
 
 “Other issues in the last one year—from death of children in Gorakhpur to death of 15 people in Varanasi bridge collapse and dogs mauling children in Sitapur – added to the woes of the government and needed strong administrative steps,” he added.
 
 Many BJP leaders are also raising questions over what led to sworn enemies – SP and BSP—coming together under the Yogi government and developing into such a potent force, raising doubts over his inability to keep the Opposition divided.
 
 Criticism is also pouring in for Yogi’s remarks in the run-up to elections in both Gorakhpur and Phulpur.
 
 While his comparison of SP-BSP fighting together with “saanp-chhuchundar” (snake and shrew) ahead of Gorakhpur and Phulpur did not go down with a large section of the electorate–the dalits and OBCs—his remark that Ajit Singh and Jayant Singh of RLD were “begging” for votes in Kairana agitated the Jats. The loss in the two byelections came despite Yogi’s aggressive outreach through ambitious schemes of his government.
 
 “The results are bound to be read as a mandate on Yogi’s governance besides becoming a reflection of antiincumbency against the BJP which stormed to power with an overwhelming majority a year ago. Invoking ‘Hindutva’ but failing on governance front only expedited the amalgamation of anti-BJP votes in the opposition camp,’’ said political commentator JP Shukla.
 
 Also, in the past one year, western UP has witnessed a series of Rajput-Dalit sectarian clashes, forcing the SCs to rebel against the BJP.
 
 Observers say being an outsider chief minister, who has often challenged the BJP itself during past elections, Yogi also lacks connect with ministers and the 325 MLAs of the ruling coalition. A number of MLAs and ministers have levelled allegations of corruption and inaction against the government.
 
 Yogi has undoubtedly worked hard, slogging till late in the night, personally reviewing presentations of various departments, holding cabinet meetings regularly and extensively touring the state and outside, but, observers say his intent may not have matched results at the ground level.
 
 Experts say Kairana and Noorpur defeats would also arm the opposition to question Yogi as BJP’s pan-India star campaigner. Yogi had campaigned for the BJP in at least five states and was credited for the party’s victories. But he failed to give the same result in his own state.
 
 
