NAGPUR: In a new twist, the   problem tigress (T1) at Pandharkawda in   has delivered two cubs creating a complex situation before the monitoring teams and forest officials.

 On January 29, PCCF (wildlife) AK   had issued orders to shoot the tigress. Two problem tigers, a male and a female, have killed 10 persons and over 50 cattle in the last 18 months in Ralegaon forest area encompassing agriculture fields.
 
 Even as the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court has stayed the shoot orders and asked officials to capture the tigress, now it seems difficult as along with the tigress, the cubs, around 2 months old, will have to be captured.
 
  said, “We have apprised senior wildlife forest officials about it and have sought guidance what to do. The cubs were recorded in camera traps in   area on Monday.”
 
 The delivery of cubs has completely exposed glitches in monitoring reports by local officials on the basis of which they sought shoot orders for the tigress. Failing to scientifically prove exact human kills in the name of tigress, the forest department is seeking time to file its reply in the court. But now, it seems the shoot orders will have to be modified.
 
 Pandharkawda officials and WII-NTCA team had even made mockery of the report submitted by wildlife vets Dr Sunil Bawaskar, Dr Ravikant Khobragade and Dr HS Prayag ( ), who had said the tigress was pregnant/lactating.
 
 “Sighting of cubs have vindicated our stand now. We don’t want to say anything more,” the vets said.
 
 The last human kill by the tigress was on January 27. As crop in the farms have been harvested, there is low human movement in the territorial and FDCM areas. “However, we will have to be extra cautious now as the tigress will be more aggressive,” said CCF Rahurkar.
 
 “The sighting of cubs may be good news for wildlife buffs, but it is going to create trouble in future. As it would be easy to capture the tigress now, a thought was mulled in a meeting of top officials whether to capture the big cat along with cubs and release in Gorewada,” sources said.
 
 
