New Delhi: That walking is healthy is a well-known fact, but did you know that you can maximise its benefits by modifying the way you do it? Fitness experts are of the view that power walking — that is, walking at a speed — can help achieve   goals, such as weight loss or muscle strengthening, in the shortest of spans.

 Simply put, power walking is an act of walking with a speed at the upper end of the natural gait, typically 7-9km/hr. To qualify as power walking — as opposed to jogging or running — at least one foot must be in contact with the ground at all times. Also, movement of upper extremities is important.
 
 “You require only a pair of shoes to get started. It helps you lose weight in a short duration and you don’t really need a large space to do so,” J K Francis, managing director of Rejuvenation Fitness Group, said.
 
 According to Dr Sudhir Kapoor, head of orthopaedics department at Indian Spinal Injuries Centre, power walking increases endurance. “One should start with little warm-up exercises,” he said.
 
 To popularise power   — an internationally recognised and popular form of walking — Max Bupa Walk for Health is going to organise a competitive category of 7km walk at Major Dhyan Chand Stadium in Delhi on Sunday. “Energy requirements for power walking are about the same as running at a 12-minute-per-mile pace, but without the pounding of joints associated with running. This makes power walking appealing to anyone trying to lose weight, especially those may find running too hard on the joints,” said one of the organisers.
 
 If you cannot do speed walk, a brisk walk is also fine, said Dr Deepak Chaudhary, director of the Safdarjung Hospital’s Sport Injury Centre.
 
 “Walking is the cheapest and the best form of exercise. Power walking is better indeed in terms of outcome, but elderly people and those with pre-existing illnesses should not rush into it,” he added.
 
 Another senior doctor said walking helps improve heart and lung function and it has a positive impact on bones and muscles as well. “It helps strengthen and tone muscles. Besides, being out in the sun means more vitamin D, which is also a bone builder,” said a doctor. 
 
 
