Chennai: With the government finally green-signalling the long-awaited cash-for-clunkers scheme for commercial vehicles, truck and bus makers expect a ‘significant’ increase in demand all along the food chain once the scrappage policy kicks in. But there are concerns about just how many of the scrapped vehicles will be traded for new ones and what kind of financial burden it will put on the OEMs (original equipment manufacturers) and dealers. On the face of it, the news is good on all fronts. “It’s good for the commercial vehicle industry, good for the environment and good for tax collection,” said Vinod Dasari, MD, Ashok Leyland. “The new-generation vehicles are more fuel efficient as well as cleaner so it will clean up the parc eventually.’’ According to estimates, there are around 15 lakh vehicles that are more than 20 years-old currently plying on Indian roads. Most of these are owned by bottom-of-the-pyramid customers who will be granted a tradable certificate assuring him of incentives in the form of GST benefits and OEM discounts. “But those who will scrap these pre-2000 vehicles are not the ones who will buy brand new ones,’’ said Pawan Goenka, MD, Mahindra & Mahindra. The total parc of 20-year or older vehicles is quite significant but the exchange won’t be one-on-one. So there will be some new sales but not as much as is generally expected. Truck marketers think the bottom of the pyramid will still be served by used vehicles, only less than 20 years-old and some the demand would move up the value chain and get translated into new vehicle sales.  Which is good news for an industry that clocked 29% growth in the April-February period and is running on peak capacity. M&M for instance is running on 100% manpower capacity already. However, transporters aren’t convinced OEMs will pass on the promised incentives given the high rate of discounts already ruling the market. “Already truck dealers are offering 12-20% discount on new truck purchases and any GST reduction for replacement of scrapped trucks over and above this may end up being usurped by auto makers through the back door. That was the case in 2008 when excise duty was cut to boost sales and in most cases truck dealers pocketed the tax sop,” said SP Singh, senior fellow and coordinator, IFTRT (Indian Foundation of Transport Research and Training). Truck marketers agree the incentive burden will be the sting in the tale but say the carrot approach to parc clean up is better than the stick. Analysts also say the parc itself may not be as big as estimated because of incorrect RTO/DTO data.  “The 20-year-or-older trucks numbering 75,000-1,00,000 annually are voluntarily scrapped but 90% of vehicle owners do not report to RTOs/DTOs so the old vehicle numbers may be exaggerated,’’ said Singh.