MUMBAI: ew year is unlikely to bring much cheer to the beleaguered banking sector with falling bond values adding to their woes. Banks stand to lose close to Rs 15,500 crore from their earnings during the third quarter on account of provisions for fall in value of their bond portfolio.   had crashed in the last week of December 2017 after the Centre said that it would exceed its borrowing target for the current financial year.

 The third quarter had seen the yield on the benchmark 10-year government bond rise by 67 basis points to 7.33%. According to an analysis of the bond portfolio of banks by ratings agency  , public sector banks will suffer a marked-tomarket loss of Rs 12,365 crore on their total investment book of Rs 26.96 lakh crore. Markedto-market losses can occur when financial instruments held are valued at the current market value.
 
 
  
 
 Earlier, the steady decline in bond yields had resulted in windfall profits for the banking sector, especially during the last six quarters (Q4FY2016-Q2FY2018). During this period, the price of older G-secs rose as banks paid more for bonds that were paying out a higher return than what was currently available in the market. By selling bonds to each other at a profit, banks made treasury gains of about Rs 1lakh crore, which was much higher than the total profit before tax (PBT) of Rs 51,105 crore for the entire banking sector during this period.
 
 Because of larger share of excess G-sec holdings, a larger share of the treasury gains was also accounted for by public sector banks (PSBs), which cumulatively accounted for treasury gains of Rs 74,300 crore during the above mentioned period. However, despite these sizeable treasury gains, PSBs reported losses before tax of Rs. 48,020 crore during the said period.
 
 According to  , group head, financial sector ratings, ICRA, PSBs are likely to account for 80% share of overall   losses.
 
 The bond losses are expected to hit banks at a time when they will be hit by provisions for bad loans. “
 
