Class X and XII are two of the most important years in the academic life of a student. The results of these two years have a huge impact not only on the student, but also on the entire family. Yes, these years and their results are important, but not the only important thing in life. There are lots of other factors that determine success or failure. Good marks are just an indicator of the potential to be successful but not a guarantee; but this fact is almost overlooked by many.

 
 The moment a student does not score his/her expected marks or does not fare well, panic sets in. The fear of not getting into the 'best' college or not being able to study the 'most sought after course' obstructs many from exploring other promising options. Any popular degree from a reputed college is looked upon as being 'secured' leading to getting a job. Most of the people in our society are conditioned to think in this manner and write off other courses and degrees which are different in nature and especially misunderstood to be of 'no use'.
 
 There are various routes available after class 10 such as diploma,  , correspondence courses, open universities, technical institutes like  , polytechnics, enrolling in junior colleges, and so on for various courses. There are some who even take the rout of diploma even after class 12 and who are ready to forego two years of junior college and start afresh.
 
 The general options that are available for students are  ,  , science and designing [fashion, jewellery, web, textile, hotel management, travel & tourism, commercial aviation, computers and IT,   and so on. Some courses can be taken up after class 12 or even after graduation irrespective of the academic background such as management, law, education, computers/IT, mass communication, social work, hospitality, and so on. Consider other options which include Diploma, Correspondence courses and vocational courses as well.
 
 There are non-conventional careers like wildlife filmmaking, pet grooming, radio/video jockey, aroma therapist, mountaineer, fitness instructors, chef and many more, that one can consider. But remember, these unconventional careers require true passion and patience to establish oneself.
 
 Those who have scored less in class 10, still have the chance to improve their scores in class 12 and look at better options for the undergraduate degree. For those in class 12, there are possibilities of pursuing   simultaneously during graduation or even after graduation for taking up PG courses.
 
 Every course has its own advantage and a path that would lead to success depending on an individual's effort. If one wants to keep options open, then pursuing a specialised course at PG level is advisable otherwise take up a definite career at the UG level itself. To make the right choice, students need to consider their long-term goals, interest, potentials, health, time on hand, financial recourses and so on before committing to any course or field. While selecting any course or institute focus on the recognition of the institute to ensure that time and money invested is going to yield the right returns. Opportunities are ample, but the survival of the fittest is the key to embark on your educational journey towards making a career and a stable life.
 
 
 
 
