MADURAI: A man, who was convicted in a   by a trial court in 2006, has been acquitted by the   after it found that the investigating agency had failed to apply the mandatory requirement of the   (Prevention of Atrocities) Act in the case.

 The court also issued a direction to the DGP, who in turn should issue suitable directions to all district police heads to conduct investigation, whenever the SC and ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act is invoked. This should be strictly done in accordance with the law especially by complying with the provisions of Rule 6 and 7 of the said Act.
 
 Eighteen years ago, charges were filed against one Surendrakumar for raping a woman belonging to the scheduled caste community. He was booked under several offences, including rape and also under the SC and ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act. The additional district and sessions judge (PCR), Thanjavur on November 11, 2006 convicted him on charges of rape and sentenced him to seven years imprisonment, but acquitted him from the charge under the SC/ST Act. 
 
 Challenging the conviction, he preferred an appeal in 2006.
 
 He had submitted that the offence under the SC/ST Act should be investigated by the officer not below the rank of DSP as per Rule 7 framed under the Act. But, the inspector alone conducted the entire investigation. Besides, as per rule, the investigation should be completed in 30 days and a report should be submitted to the SP who has to immediately forward it to the DGP. Moreover, the home secretary, social welfare secretary, director of prosecution, the officer (in-charge) of prosecution and the DGP should review the position of the investigation by the end of every quarter. If any violation of Rule 7 of the Act is found the same would affect the root of the case, the appellant contended.
 
 The government said that the DSP partly conducted the investigation and the remaining was done under his supervision. 
 
 After hearing, justice M V Muralidaran said, “This court is having no option other than to accept the contention of the appellant. The investigation officer miserably failed to apply the mandatory requirement of Rule 7. Unfortunately, the government’s contention is unacceptable.”
 
 The judge also said, “When the other evidence of prosecution is perused, they would not able to point out the accused to connect the commission of offence beyond reasonable doubt. Besides, his acquittal from charges under the SC/ST Act is not opposed either by the prosecution or the victim. So in total, the evidence produced by the prosecution is not only inadequate, but at the same time the same has been disproved by the accused by way of cross-examination of the witnesses.” 
 
 Accordingly, the judge acquitted him by setting aside the trial court order.
 
 
