CHANDIGARH: The board of directors of the Hindu Urban Cooperative Bank, Pathankot, has been suspended and put on notice amid the financial health of the bank getting severely eroded, putting the interest of the depositors of the bank at grave risk. It follows a detailed inquiry got conducted by joint registrar, cooperative societies, Jalandhar division.

 An indication of the bank’s performance is the fact that it has to recover Rs 99.69 crore from only 44 big defaulters.  , registrar, cooperative societies, Punjab, said that on Sunday the board had been asked to explain as to why action should not be taken against them as they have failed to perform their expected duties in a transparent and professional manner. He said that the department received complaints from the public and representations from bank staff regarding the mismanagement by the board of directors. 
 
 The inquiry pointed out that the RBI while conducting the inspection of the bank has put the bank on notice under self corrective action for the second consecutive year. The bank has shown its capital adequacy ratio (CAR) to be 9% on March 31, 2017, whereas after the RBI inspection it has been lowered to 0.68% as the bank had not made the required provisions in its books of accounts. The non-performing assets (NPA) of the bank has shot up to 48%, which is very high. Further, the board of the bank indiscriminately extended financial benefits to certain selected defaulters by charging lower rate of interest or waiving the penal interest to be charged from them by going beyond jurisdiction without any policy. 
 
 The inquiry report has also indicated that certain individuals and families have unduly been favoured by giving them very huge amount of advances and recovery was not made from such loanees, which grossly affected the financial health of the bank. 
 
 The management of the bank “woefully failed to protect the interests of the institution, its depositors, members and shareholders,” compelling the department to step in and suspend the board.  , deputy registrar, cooperative societies, has been appointed as administrator and he has assumed charge on May 11.
 
 
 
 The inquiry found may instances where the board has taken a decision beyond its jurisdiction and has worked in a way detrimental to the interests of the bank. For instance, it reduced the rate of interest from 13% to 12% in case of M/s  , from 12.5% to 12% for M/s Vikas Ventures and from 13% to 12% for M/s Venus Public Resort. It waived penal interest of Rs 43.39 lakh in case of Transworld Sellways, Rs 26,49,321 in case of Sai Enterprises, Rs 4,21,361 in case of SS Timber and Rs 62,949 in case of Narinder Singh.
 
 
