From a small hamlet in the suburbs of Varanasi, to winning the gold medal at the ongoing Commonwealth Games at Gold Coast, Australia, weightlifter Punam Yadav’s tale of grit and determination, fighting the oddities, is straight out of a Bollywood flick. So, when she returned to her village  , she was given a hero's welcome. The entire village turned up for Punam as she arrived at her village after winning the gold medal in weightlifting, on Friday. The golden girl, as she is fondly called after the win, loved every moment of the welcome accorded to her by her family, friends and villagers. "Jab mein airport se ghar ja rahi thi toh har taraf log khade thay. I was so overwhelmed," says Punam, with a smile. "I have not slept since the last four days but wanted to come back home," adds Punam, who interspersed the interview between the various felicitations, meeting people and participating in the the family pooja organised in her honour. 

  
  Punam's dadi applying teeka on her forehead (BCCL/ Arvind Kumar)
 
 Upon reaching home, Punam was given a traditional welcome by the ladies in her family, including her grandmother, with a teeka and phoolon ki maala. After cheers and hugs, it was time for Punam to dance with all her family members who grooved on folk music blaring from the loudspeakers. In fact, the entire area echoed with   singing which was organised to celebrate her win. "Mujhe bahut khushi hai ki maine desh ki liye yeh medal jeeta aur apne papa ka sapna poora kiya," said Punam.
 Punam's father, Kailash Yadav, a small time farmer, due to lack of funds, had taken a loan to ensure that his children were not deprived of basic amenities. The family did not even own a television when the weightlifter had won the bronze medal at Asian Junior Championship in 2014, one of her earliest trysts with fame.
 "My father has made a lot of sacrifices for all my siblings, who are mostly in sports and made sure that money never stood in our way. So I wanted to share my win with my family," says Punam, who trained at the Sports Hostel in Lucknow. 
 
  
  Punam shows off her gold medal (BCCL/ Arvind Kumar)
 
 On a lot of girls keeping the medal rally tingling, the weightlifter says, "If given a chance, girls can do wonders. In our game, the role of the coach is really very important. Facilities do matter but ultimately it is hard work and passion for the game that pays off. Lots of sportsperson leave midway due to lack of facilities but I feel that this should not stand in their way."
 With the state government announcing a cash prize post her win at the Commonwealth Games, the sportswoman says, "The government should also support players who have played the nationals rather than concentrating on international players. This will help sports to flourish more."
 A coy smile flashes her face at the mere mention of her engagement with   Yadav, a national level discus player. "It is an arranged marriage, decided by our families. We have still not decided on the wedding date. It is only after the Asian Games that our families will take a call on this," she says Dharamraj, who was not only the first one to share the news of Punam's win with her parents, but also participated in the celebrations at her home. "I was watching her live on TV when she added two more kgs to her 98 kg snatch. At that very moment I knew she is going to win," he says with a smile. He further adds, "It is her passion for the game that I greatly admire. I am really proud that she being a girl, is able to achieve things which a man cannot do. How many men in Varanasi can do a 100 kg snatch in weightlifting?" he says, proudly.
 Punam, who has to rush back to Patiala as part of preparation for the forthcoming Asian Games wants to make the most of her stay at home. Ma ke haath ka khana is what she does not wish to miss out on. "I have specially made kachori and bada which is her favourite food," says Urmilla Devi, Punam's mother rather indulgently. 
 
  
    with Dharamraj Yadav (BCCL/ Arvind Kumar)
 
 But the celebrations of Punam’s gold medal win turned a bit sour on Saturday when the she had gone to visit her bua at Mungwar village, under   police station. Punam was allegedly attacked by her aunt's neighbours when she tried to intervene during a clash between them over a land dispute. She was saved by the police as the attackers started pelting stones. Luckily Punam escaped unhurt. Yogeshwar Ram Mishra, the district magistrate had called for strict action against the assailants upon hearing of the incident.
  
  Punam with her mother Urmila and father at her village (BCCL/ Arvind Kumar)
 
 But according to SP (rural)  , both the sides did not file an FIR nor did anyone lodge a formal complain. "Punam had gone to Police chowki Raja Talab and the Rohania police station after the incident but no official complaint was lodged by her," informed Kumar, adding, "On Sunday both the conflicting sides reached a compromise. They don’t want to lodge a complaint and have stated that they are now on good terms with each other."
 
