LUCKNOW: After joining hands with the Bahujan Samaj Party for 2019 Lok Sabha elections in UP, Samajwadi Party national president on Wednesday reached out to senior leaders of Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) and   (SAD) during his visit to the Central Hall of Parliament in New Delhi on Wednesday. Earlier in the day, he visited ailing Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) founder Lalu Prasad Yadav at All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) where the veteran politician is undergoing treatment.

 The SP chief’s meeting with NCP MP Supriya Sule, who is also the daughter of party president Sharad Pawar, was on expected lines as her party had announced support to the SP candidate in the recently held Lok Sabha bypolls in Gorakhpur and Phulpur. But Akhilesh’s interaction with SAD MPs Naresh Gujral and   has created ripples in the political circles as the SAD is a member of BJPled National Democratic Alliance. Kaur is Union minister for food processing.
 
 The interaction with SAD leaders has triggered speculations in the backdrop of recent statements from the party’s Rajya Sabha member Gujaral who had, a couple of months ago, made headlines for his comments that the Modi government lacked the “Vajpayee touch” claiming that there was a big difference between the current government at the Centre and how the coalition worked during the Atal Behari Vajpayee’s tenure as the prime minister.
 
 After this much talkedabout meeting in the Central hall of parliament, a photograph showing Sule flanked by Gujral on one side and Akhilesh and Harsimrat Kaur Badal on the other was tweeted by Sule. Earlier, Akhilesh called on Lalu Yadav to enquire about his well-being at hospital.
 
 
 Around the same time, there were reports that BJP MP   also visited the RJD founder who is serving a jail term following his conviction in the fodder scam.
 
 
 A somewhat similar coincidence had taken place on March 24 when SP vice-president Kiranmoy Nanda called on Lalu in a Ranchi hospital where Shatrughan, who had earlier spoken openly against his party, was present.
 
 
 Talking to media, Akhilesh said Lalu has fought for the deprived and the weaker sections of the society throughout his political career and he had come to enquire about his health.
 
 About his alliance with BSP and plans to reach out to other regional political parties, Akhilesh said the BJP had entered into an alliance with 45 parties and he has only reached out to BSP till now. “Why are the rival parties so concerned about my alliance … I still have quite some room for seeking alliance,” he said in Delhi on Wednesday.
 
