COIMBATORE: How far will you go to save someone you love? When a   pounced on her 10-year-old daughter and tried to drag her into the nearby forest on Friday evening, a 30-year-old single mother in Valparai did not hesitate to intervene. 

 Armed with just a wooden log, she confronted the big cat. A good thrashing from the fierce mother sent the animal back to the forest, tail between its legs and leaving the injured girl behind.
 
 I  , a tea-leaf picker employed at the Tan Tea estate at Periyakallar fourth division of Valparai, was busy chopping wood on the backyard of her staff quarters around 7pm when the incident happened. 
 
 Her 10-year-old daughter, I Sathya, was helping her. Muthulakhsmi had separated from her husband Iyapparaj a few months ago and was taking care of her daughter alone. The mother-daughter team was working hard to collect firewood to cook a humble dinner, when a leopard attacked Sathya. 
 
 
 
 
 The shocked mother watched helplessly as the animal sank its sharp teeth into Sathya's neck and began to drag her into the forest. But within seconds, her maternal instinct kicked in and Muthulakshmi hit the animal with a piece of firewood she had just chopped. Taken aback by the unexpected attack, the leopard dropped the girl and scooted off to the forest. 
 
 The minor girl, who suffered injuries on the cheek and neck, was rushed to a government hospital in Valparai where she received first aid. She is said to be in a stable condition in the Pollachi Government Hospital where she is undergoing treatment.
 
 Meanwhile range officer of Valparai forest range RG Sekar lauded Muthulakshmi for the brave act. "Tan Tea estate is located near the reserve forest area. Several estate workers are staying in the staff quarters. We request the workers not to let their children out after 6pm," he said.
 
 The forest department had advised tea estate workers not to rear goats, sheep or dogs, Sekar told TOI. "As these animals are easy prey, leopards are attracted to the staff quarters." 
 
 
 
