Ludhiana: With just two days remaining for the end of the nomination filing process for Municipal Corporation elections, the Congress has just finished releasing its list of candidates on Saturday night, while the Lok Insaaf Party has failed to announce even a single candidate so far. But this delay is proving to be a blessing in disguise for the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) candidates, as their parties had released the lists almost a week ago, which has given considerable time to their candidates for campaigning. However, along with door-to-door campaigning, a majority of the candidates of BJP and SAD are visiting temples and gurdwaras every day to seek God’s blessings in securing a win in the elections.

 Bhupinder Singh Honey — BJPs candidate from Ward No.66 — is one such candidate who has made it a point to visit a gurdwara and temple almost every day. Speaking to TOI, he said: “All my family members are very religious minded, and I visit religious places often in my daily routine as well. As I am contesting an election for the first time in my life, I definitely need God’s blessings to succeed, and therefore I have made it a point to visit religious places for paying obeisance.” Commenting about his election campaign, Honey said: “My campaign is running full throttle, and I’m amazed at the kind of love and support I’m getting from the people of my area, who are fed up of non-development, and desperately want a change.”
 
 Munish Bedi, another BJP candidate contesting elections from Ward No.20, does not forget to pay obeisance to Lord Ganpati before starting his campaign everyday. He said: “Whether it’s me or any other candidate, I don’t think any good task should be done without seeking the almighty’s blessings. We have strong faith in Lord Ganpati, who has always taken care of my family even in the worst of times. I’m sure I’ll sail through these elections.”
 
 However, some candidates have gone further ahead, and are even organizing ‘kirtans’ and ‘paaths’ in their homes before the D-day. Ex-councillor and SAD candidate from Ward No.36, Jagbir Singh Sokhi, organized a Sukhmani Sahib Paath’ at his residence on Sunday, in which a large number of party leaders, workers, and area residents took part. Speaking to TOI, Sokhi said: “This is not the first time I have organized a ‘paath’. I and my family organize such events routinely to thank the almighty for everything he has given us. As far as elections are concerned, I don’t think there is any competition on my seat from anyone, and I will secure a massive win like in the past.”
 
 
