JOHANNESBURG: For all the potential Hardik Pandya has shown to find a place in the India XI, he gives the impression of a cricketer who's not sure yet of his role in the team. Is Pandya a bowler who can bat or a batman who can bowl?

 
 
 Twice in two matches, knowing well that only the tail is left to follow if he gets out, Pandya has been guilty of the kind of dismissals that would rank unworthy even of a No. 10 walking in. In Centurion, it was the manner of his run-out that went viral. In Johannesburg, it was the most awkward of pulls that calls for serious disapproval.
 
 
 
 India dropped   to accommodate Pandya and for a team going in with a five-bowler attack, the allrounder certainly didn't look like he knew his part. One ridiculously-timed stroke, after having faced just five balls, undid all the hard work of Pujara during his 261-minute stay at the crease to let the ball lose a bit of shine.
 
 
 
 Pandya was one among the five specialist batsmen picked for this Test who collectively put on 19 runs on board, 11 less than what India's new-ball bowler   managed walking in at No. 8.
 
 Captain   and coach   have a call to make before the tour of England in the summer. With the benefit of hindsight now, India once again won't have the leisure of landing in England early, thanks to the IPL.
 
 Opener   and   too flattered to deceive. There were clearly no runs to be scored on this Wanderers pitch when play began and this wasn't among the first things seemed to be conveyed to Vijay, a batsman clearly struggling to find form.
 
 After spending 41 minutes at the crease and facing 32 balls, the least that the Chennai batsman could've done was get a grasp on the moving ball. Instead, stretching all out to drive, he only edged Rabada to wicket-keeper Quinton de Kock and was back in the pavilion to expose the Indian middle-order to an attack that was only settling down.
 
 Patel, who was in for quite a serious discussion post his Centurion show - both, in front and behind the wickets - can big goodbye to his Test match career for some time now. To watch the wicket-keeper-batsman attempt a cut off Morne Morkel bordered was painful because the batsman did make it appear like he was batting at Motera and not the Wanderers.
 
 The ball coming from over seven feet at good pace and just that bit short, rose sharply and given the height from where Morkel's arm rolled over, Patel fell for the top edge.
 
 Wednesday's batting display made these three batsmen the poster boys of some very poor cricket.
 
 
