By: 
 

 HYDERABAD: What was once known as a shepherd’s hill, protector of Kohinoor and home to the  ,   is now surrounded by encroachers.
 
 These squatters are not only contributing to piling up of garbage and over-crowding but are also taking over the space around the fort.
 
 
  
 Despite constant efforts by Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) officials to move them, encroachers have refused to budge.
 
 Tourists welcomed by encroachers and makeshift stalls at the entrance, feel they have reduced the aesthetic value of the fort. “The architectural beauty of the fort goes down in my eyes when I see such an entrance. I wish to see the history of the fort instead of a market scene,” says Linda, a foreign tourist.
 
 Milan Kumar a superintending archaeologist from Hyderabad, says that there is no record of private and government land around Golconda, especially after it was passed to the government by the Nizams.
 
 The only evidence is a 1940   map. Lands can be identified once an old revenue record is referred to, he said. “Despite asking for the revenue schedule, the revenue department hasn’t replied,” he said. “However, the land inside the outer walls of Golconda is government land. New constructions and encroachment on this area are thus, illegal,” Kumar added, saying how encroachers have grown in number and have taken over the boundary walls, the nine palaces and the Naya Qila that come inside the Golconda territory.
 
 When it comes to issuing legal notices, the authorities are driven away by the locals. He adds. “Who is supplying the encroachers with water and electricity? We cannot drive away the people already living there but we are trying to keep a check on new constructions in the area,” said Kumar.
 
 Encroachment is a neverending cycle because people claim to have been there for many years and have nowhere else to go. Taher Khan, a restaurant owner, says, “My restaurant is here for 35 years and I have no other livelihood. It has been passed down from generations. I admit that I have expanded my restaurant area to open a pan shop but I close it down when people start overcrowding the place.”
 
 Syed Shehbaaz, a stall owner at the entrance said that he isn’t ready to move because of good sales. If insisted by an official, he co-operates and shifts his shop a little.
 
 Mohammed Abdul Khaliq, a resident, and flour mill owner added that his shop is 40-years-old and was bought as a kirana shop.
 
 “This market place was given to us by the Nawab as a marketplace so why should we move now? Many officials have asked us to move but where else do we go and how else do we earn our bread?,” Khaliq questioned.
 
 Golconda fort along with the three Qutub Shahi monuments, Charminar and the Seven Tombs, have been in the race for the   world heritage tag. But various issues ranging from their upkeep to encroachment has denied the iconic fort, a chance of being nominated for thestatus.
 
 
