RAIPUR: A government school principal who was also former education officer has been accused of molesting Class XII girl on pretext of helping her in passing the board exams in tribal Jashpur district. 

 Police is yet to arrest him while another teacher was also booked on student’s complaint who allegedly forced her to make several visits to principal seeking help in exams. Principal was also accused of offering money to the girl's family for withdrawing the complaint.
 
 The incident took place on March 6 and was reported on Wednesday at Government Girls’ School in Bagicha after Class XII student complained that principal Amrit Ram Nikunj molested her during her visit to her home offering to help her get good marks in board exams.
 
 Jashpur collector Priyanka Shukla issued an order on Wednesday night to suspend principal Amrit Ram Nikunj and his aide teacher Bhuwaneshwar Alfa. 
 
 In her complaint, the student said that principal came to her house when she was alone and studying to inquire how was her preparation going on. She expressed her difficulties in English when Nikunj offered her that if she fulfils his desires, he would get her good marks in all subjects. When the girl turned down his offer saying that she doesn’t care if she fails, he touched her inappropriately trying to convince her. The girl said that she had been sensing something unusual in their behaviour for quite sometime.
 
 She said that earlier too, the principal had attempted to molest other girls. 
 
 Police said that teacher Alfa was hand in gloves with principal and he tried his best to pursue the girl towards Nikunj and often asked her to visit him. 
 
 Later, the girl informed about the incident to her parents as well as a woman teacher who reported the matter to ‘Sakhi – one stop centre’.
 
 Meanwhile, fearing punishment and insult, principal approached the girl’s family and allegedly offered them Rs 5000 to withdraw the case, which they reported to police. 
 
 An FIR was lodged under Section 454, 354, 354 A of the IPC against Alfa and Nikunj who are reported to be at large
 
