CHANDIGARH: The Punjab and   high court's verdict striking down provisions of the Punjab Scheduled Castes and Backward Classes (Reservation of Services) Act, 2006, would even affect promotions of scheduled castes staffers in the past, Punjab advocate general   has advised the state government. 

 For this, Nanda has reasoned, "Since the HC judgment does not specifically restrict the operation to the future, even the promotions made on the basis of the reservation policy in the past would stand affected."
 
 The February 20 judgment has come as a big setback to the   government since the Act was enacted during the Congress's earlier regime in 2006. The HC had struck down provisions of the Act fixing quota in promotions. 
 
 The court had reasoned as on date there was no quantifiable data available which could justify any reservation or percentage of reservation in promotions in Punjab.
 
 As per the existing law, there is a provision of 14% promotion quota for scheduled castes in group A and B in the state government services and 20% in group C and D. Interestingly, the government had submitted before HC as per the data collected from 47 administrative departments, "though not complete and faulty to some extent", the scheduled caste reservation has reached 19.07% in group-A, 16.34% in group B, 27.47% in group C and 31.78% in group D.
 
 In his letter to the Punjab government written on April 27, a copy of which is with the TOI, the advocate general has said, "The only immediate course of action available to the state is to re-enact (through ordinance) the sections struck down after relating the reservation to the updated quantifiable data collated by the state in terms of the Nagaraj (2006 Supreme Court judgement) parameters."
 
 However, Nanda has made it clear that the fresh exercise has to be undertaken only on the basis of fresh data and the existing data cannot be used without challenging the high court's order. M Nagaraj judgment makes it clear that a reservation should be made after satisfying itself on the basis of three criterion - backwardness, inadequacy of representation and efficiency in administration.
 
 To one of the government's queries whether a review application needs to be filed before the high court or a special leave application needs to be filed before the Supreme Court, Nanda has advised, "In the present case, where relevant information was not placed before the court, a review in the high court would be a better option than filing an SLP before the SC."
 
 The advocate general has suggested that a safer course of action would be to collect the latest quantifiable data to determine the extent of reservation required and introduce it by amending the Act. "An added advantage would be that the state can bring back reservation with immediately," he has said.
 
 
