AHMEDABAD: While the UK has a large number of   (NRG) luminaries in such fields as business, administration, politics and medicine, a growing number of   have started opting for careers in police or military forces.

 Sejal Patel-Reed, 34, is among the few from the   who have joined the   (MPS), which serves Greater London. Patel-Reed, who is also the Faith Liaison Officer for the borough of Harrow, was recently commended by the Gujarati community of London. An award was given to her at the House of Commons for her community service and her role in strengthening cohesion between the community and the police.
 
 Patel-Reed is a third-generation Gujarati immigrant. Her grandfather had migrated to East Africa. Her father was born in Sojitra in Anand district whereas her mother, also with roots in the same region, was born in Uganda. The families made the UK their home in the 1970s, fleeing a turbulent Uganda just as hundreds of Gujarati families had done at the time. Patel-Reed was born in the UK.
 
 “During my formative years, our joint family lived under one roof in Wembley and visited Gujarat regularly,” Patel-Reed said. “My sister, cousins and I formally learned Gujarati. We enjoy Gujarati food and culture. We celebrate festivals such as Navratri, Diwali and Holi.”
 
 
 
  married an English police officer, sergeant Mike Reed in 2009, in a Hindu ceremony at Hare Krishna temple in Watford. The couple has two daughters, aged three and five. As for joining the police force, she said: “While growing up, I saw my parents encourage and support the community. They were my role models and inspired me to play my part in breaking down barriers between the community and society as a whole.” She went on to say: “While my peers were opting careers in medicine or law, I saw the profession as a police officer as a means to give back to the community and integrate further into the society.”
 
 Patel-Reed has had her share of challenges even as there has been a marked change in attitude towards officers from minority communities. “I was the first Gujarati officer in my whole force at the time of my joining,” she said. “The attitude towards me was mixed. I had to make the force understand the benefits of my language skills and cultural understanding.” But today she is the bridge between the police and the community.
 
 “During my visit to India in 2017, I was successful in security interest for community policing to be adopted in Gujarat. It not only increases confidence but also reduces corruption. I see it as my way of giving back to my motherland,” she said.
 
 
