MUMBAI: Along with the anxiety that comes with taking any exam, thousands of University of   had to go through much mental and physical stress just to reach their exam halls on Wednesday, thanks to the bandh.

 Whether the exams would be held at all or not, the logistical problems of getting to exam centres, the nervousness over reaching safely and in time and such matter weighed heavily on students’ minds. Yet, many braved the mobs and reached the exam halls. Parents were angered by the fact that the university, unlike private schools, many of which remained shut, did not call off the examinations and put students through immense risk.
 
 Many like Rupal Mishra, a   student travelling from   to his centre Advani College in Bandra, had to face tremendous problems. “It was extremely troublesome to reach the exam centre. I had to take a lift from multiple two-wheelers to reach from one point to another and then walk for long stretches.
 
 
  This went on till 10-12 km before reaching the nearest railway station. For even minimal distances, autos charged exorbitantly,” he said.
 
 Mishra said that mobs caused a ruckus on the roads, striking bikers and cars with sticks, leading to damage to vehicles and injuring drivers. “This simply led to fear in the mind of getting hurt, especially when you have another exam two days later,” he said.
 
 Four university exams took place in the first session and nine more in the afternoon. After several principals and parents expressed concern about the situation on the road and the inability to get on trains, the university officials stated that while the exams would take place as scheduled, these would be reheld for the benefit of those who do not reach the exam centre. “We have asked principals for the attendance during the morning sessions and if we feel that too many students could not make it, we may consider holding the exams again,” said a university official.
 
 “The uncertainty over whether exams would be postponed coupled with the anxiety of studies and the hassles to reach the exam centre in absence of proper transport, road blockade and prevailing violence made it a tough day,” Agastya Samat, a law student, said.
 
 At Ambedkar Law College, Wadala, of the 250 who were expected to take the exam, only about 50 students landed up.
 
 Protesters came to the campus around 2.30 pm and demanded that the college cancel the exam. “We were threatened and asked to not hold the exam. But the university has also issued a circular asking us to conduct the exam for whosoever co-“The uncertainty over whether exams would be postponed coupled with the anxiety of studies and the hassles to reach the exam centre in absence of proper transport, road blockade and prevailing violence made it a tough day,” Agastya Samat, a law student, said.
 
 At Ambedkar Law College, Wadala, of the 250 who were expected to take the exam, only about 50 students landed up. Protesters came to the campus around 2.30 pm and demanded that the college cancel the exam. “We were threatened and asked to not hold the exam. But the university has also issued a circular asking us to conduct the exam for whosoever comes,” said principal Jaymangal Dhanraj.
 
 Ashoke Maitra, founder of Sri Ramakrishna International Institute of Management, said: “The   is trying to portray that all is well, but it is not true. The education minister is continuing to hold exams but most students are unable to reach the centres.”
 
 Attendance was largely poor. At Royal College, Mira Road, principal A E   said: “We were hosting the MCom exam and of the 53 students who were to come for the exam, only 23 came.” Students who came late were compensated and additional time was given at all colleges. Assessment was largely hampered as faculty could not make it for the same.
  
 
