NAGPUR: A hardware store,   and Paints, located near Priyadarshini Engineering College on Umred Road, has been fined Rs5,000 by   (NMC), for the second time in two years, for releasing hazardous chemicals in a nullah on Thursday. The store was fined after residents complained about the issue, said   officials. They have directed the store to stop releasing chemicals into the nullah, for which the store owners demanded a relaxation period of three days, officials added.

 NMC officials informed TOI that the store, which falls in Nehru Nagar Zone, has been polluting the drain with harmful chemicals. There have been complaints of breathing problems in some people in the area. The fine notice has been issued by the nuisance detection squad of NMC. However, when TOI spoke to the hardware store owners, they denied the allegations and claimed they have not received any notice as of Thursday evening.
 
 The same store had been penalized Rs10,000 last year for the same activity, and notices were also sent to the pollution department to look into the matter.
 
 However, complainant   expressed displeasure with the course of action by NMC. “Though I registered a complaint on Wednesday morning, officials failed to take any action till Thursday. The officials did not take any action until I spoke to additional commissioner Ravindra Kumbhare, who immediately directed the staff to survey the area,”   added.
 
 He added that the chemicals are harmful to human life as they appear to be toxic. Some dogs had died when the chemical was released last year, after they came in contact with the polluted water, he said.
 
 “The apathetic approach of the shop owners is alarming. Moreover, they do not fear the law, and have continued to pollute the water even after being penalized. The fine imposed by NMC is very less, and only strict action can ensure such cases are not repeated,” Ade added.
 
 “We have asked the store to stop releasing the chemicals. We will inspect the area again on Monday. The ignorant attitude of the shop owners is very discouraging and proper action will be taken if the action is repeated,” said Nehru Nagar Zone medical officer Ravi Gaikwad.
 
 Kumbhare said, “Such acts will not be tolerated. The corporation will make sure that the guilty are punished. We have notified the pollution department and steps will be taken to prevent water pollution at all cost.” 
 
 
