MYSURU: It has only been two days since the   issued its order directing   ( ) to issue marks cards and degree certificates to students who enrolled in the 2013-14, and 2014-15 academic years, but the varsity has been flooded with requests for early issuance of graduation and postgraduation degrees.

 Sources in the KSOU said that nearly 1.5 lakh students were expected to benefit from the order issued by the government. “We will issue a detailed notification on when the certificates will be issued in a matter of days,” said a varsity official.
 
 The officer added that, after a prolonged period of uncertainty that followed the decision of the University Grants Commission ( ) to de-recognise the varsity’s courses, the students were now relieved. “They were extremely upset about their future since their options, which include pursuing higher education or a job, was jeopardised owing to the UGC’s decision. Now, they are keenly waiting for their degree certificates,” he added.
 
 The officer said that candidates would be allowed to apply for their certificates once the varsity issued a detailed notification. “The process is expected to take a couple of days. There is also a proposal to allow candidates to apply for all certificates and marks cards online,” the officer said.
 
 Expressing hope that the varsity would finally see a convocation – the first since it was de-recognised – the varsity official said, “The varsity authorities are likely to convene a meeting of the KSOU board of management.”
 
 KSOU vice-chancellor D Shivalingaiah said that the varsity would try to complete all procedures at the earliest. “We need the approval of the board, and the university academic council to implement the   (GO). We will hold a meeting at the earliest, and initiate the process,” Shivalingaiah told The Times of India.
 
 While issuing certificates to students who joined in 2013 is not going to prove difficult, there are a few logistical problems where the 2014-15 batch students are concerned. “We need to hold contact classes for the final year students who joined in that year, and hold examinations. All these will be completed at the earliest,” Shivalingaiah added.
 
 K Ramesh Jain, who enrolled in the MCom course in 2014-15, however, was not elated with the new development. “The GO is applicable only to Karnataka. Until the UGC recognises these courses, our degrees will not have any value while applying for central government jobs including the Railways. The state government needs to raise this issue with the Union ministry of human resource development at the earliest,” Jain told TOI.
 
 Meanwhile, the fate of students who joined technical courses continued to remain uncertain, with the GO excluding these courses. “The six-member expert panel headed by chief secretary K Ratna Prabha has recommended that the state government seek a legal opinion on the viability of technical courses offered by KSOU through various franchises. So, those students will have to wait and see what happens,” said another KSOU officer.
 
 He added that the number of students who had enrolled for technical and nursing courses was around 1.5 lakh.
 
 
