BENGALURU: Stating that voices in a democracy should not be silenced, Margaret  , former Union minister and veteran   leader, on Thursday said the recent clashes in Bhima Koregaon, Maharashtra, are only a manifestation of lopsided development.

 “See what’s happening in one of our most progressive states. Students too want a voice but when they speak out, they are labelled anti-nationals. We always speak of development, but whom is this development for? Is it for the backward communities or is it making the rich richer?” she said, while addressing the 96th annual conference of the   in India, at Bishop Cotton Boys’ School here.
 
 Principals and heads of over 200 Anglo-Indian schools from across the country gathered to share their best practices and discuss challenges plaguing the education system.
 
 Alva laid the responsibility of ensuring that the future generation is responsible, free-thinking and inquisitive, squarely on the shoulders of teachers. “The future of children is in your hands. We live in challenging times, not just politically but in every way. Children should be aware of their Constitutional rights and speak up when they see injustice. We live in a speechless democracy, a cashless economy and a divided society. This is our challenge and educators have a duty to equip students. Whether they will be cogs or thinking individuals is in your hands,” she said.
 
 Dr  , former HRD minister, said capacity building for teachers had lagged behind. “Capacity building has not kept pace resulting in the overall fall in the quality of education provided as reflected in the dismal learning curve in the ASER report. If new opportunities are not created for the emerging workforce, then scepticism may take over young minds,” he said.
 
 N R Narayana  , Infosys co-founder, also participated in an interactive session and fielded questions from heads of schools.
 
 “I believe education is about learning to learn. Children should derive generic information from specific instances and use that to solve problems that may not have cropped up yet. The purpose of education is to better lives and teaching people to overcome prejudice. Emphasis should be on primary and secondary education where children should be taught through basic questions about nature. Explaining to them why the sky is blue, while also teaching scientific principles will help them absorb information better. The American system of education, for instance, helps people think differently,” he said.
 
 Murthy also had a fresh approach to helping children get off their gadgets. “Our responsibility is to help children pursue a good path. For that, we have to be on the same wavelength and use the language they use. We have to be equally adept at these technologies they use to understand how it works, and at the same time, tell them to use restraint,” he said. 
 
 
