HYDERABAD: A drop in the number of students pursuing degree and post-graduate courses (PG) in Telugu medium institutions has forced several affiliated colleges to convert to English medium from the ensuing academic year.

 
 “Almost 30-40 per cent of the colleges want to convert to English medium this year, as the response among most of the students for Telugu medium at degree and PG level is comparatively low,” confirmed  , president of Telangana Degree and  .
 
 In December 2017, representatives from various colleges had urged the   (TSCHE) to allow affiliated colleges to change their medium of instruction and combination of courses offered from the academic year 2018-19.
 
 “Since English is the language option in most of the competitive exams, students prefer shifting the medium of instruction to english at degree level. Considering this, close to 100 degree colleges, mostly in the rural areas, are keen to convert to English medium this year,” said Vijay Bhasker Reddy, general secretary of   and  .
 
 Not just this, many are also keen on changing the combination of courses offered at degree and PG level. “While combination of maths, physics and chemistry was popular a few years ago, the focus among students has shifted to maths, physics and computer science. Computer related courses are in demand. Therefore, several managements want to change the combinations offered in their colleges to have lesser vacant seats,” said Ramana Reddy.
 
 According to government officials and college managements, 90 per cent of the degree seats, especially in streams like social science and life science departments, remain vacant every year. And the situation, they confess, is unlikely to change in the next five years.
 
 Following a representation submitted by the colleges, TSCHE opened a window recently with fresh guidelines for conversion of courses and medium in existing affiliated colleges. As per guidelines, colleges can apply to change medium of instruction, subjects in in the existing combination of the undergraduate courses, withdrawal of existing UG/PG courses, combinations, sections. “The application form can be downloaded from the web site of www.tsche.ac.in. The last date for submission of application is March 14,” read the notification issued by the TSCHE.
 
