AGARTALA: A four-member team representing the 10,323 teachers facing termination, along with leaders of  , is scheduled to meet Union human resource minister   in Delhi on Tuesday to seek redressal. 

 The state education department terminated the services of the teachers in compliance with a Supreme Court order on Saturday, but has issued fresh letters of contractual appointment from Monday. The reprieve, however, is for six months.
 
 Agitating teachers burnt their contractual appointment letters en masse, accusing the state government of cheating them. "The government delayed our termination by six months, promising us new jobs if it returns to power. All this was done because election is round the corner," a protesting teacher said.
 
 The teachers met BJP MLA   and requested him to accompany them along with other leaders to Delhi. Barman agreed to go to Delhi with president of the state unit of BJP Biplab Kumar Deb, Tripura election in-charge   and national general secretary of BJP Ram Madhav. 
 
 "We have decided to accompany them and to ensure a detailed discussion regarding their future. We will request the minister to take up the matter in Parliament and at least try to extend their tenure by another five years. BJP will help in the process," Barman said. He added, "We are sympathetic to their cause. This is not a matter of politics. Even if BJP does not come to power in the state, we will stand by the teachers."
 
 The services of 10,323 school teachers were cancelled by the Tripura high court in May 2014, declaring the appointments "illegal, unconstitutional and unfair". The state government moved the Supreme Court challenging the high court order. In March this year, however, the apex court in March this year upheld the high court judgment and asked the government to terminate their appointment on December 31. The state government appealed that the functioning of schools would be adversely affected, following which the teachers were granted six months' ad hoc re-appointment with fixed terms.
 
