NEW DELHI: The admit card for Telangana Engineering Agricultural and Medical Common Entrance Test (TS EAMCET) 2018 has been released on the official website of the TS EAMCET. The candidates can now visit - eamcet.tsche.ac.in - to check and download their admit card. The admit card was released late night on Friday, April 20, 2018.

 
 This year, the   Hyderabad is conducting the TS EAMCET examination in the state.
 
 The admit card for the Telangana EAMCET 2018 examination will be available upto May 1, 2018 for download. The candidates are advised to download their admit card on or before May 1, 2018.
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 The entrance exam will be conducted in online mode for the first time this year. The TS EAMCET exam will be held in two sessions from May 2 to 7, 2018. The candidates, who are to report for the morning-session exams should report at 9 am for bio-metric verification and the afternoon session candidates should report at 1.30 pm.
 
 If you have not applied for the exam yet, you can register with a late fine of Rs. 5000 till April 24, 2018. 
 
 The TS EAMCET exam is conducted by Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University Hyderabad on behalf of   (TSCHE).
 
 
 
 
 
 
 All the students who have applied for the Telangana Engineering, Agriculture & Medical Common Entrance Test can check their hall ticket online on the official website - http://eamcet.tsche.ac.in.
 
 The TS EAMCET is the state level entrance test conducted for admission to undergraduate engineering courses in both state and private engineering colleges in the state of Telangana. 
 
 The Telangana Engineering, Agriculture & Medical Common Entrance Test is scheduled to be held on:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Students who have applied for the examination can download their Telangana Engineering, Agriculture & Medical Common Entrance Test hall ticket from the official website. Candidates are advised to download and take a print out of their hall ticket for future use. 
 
 
 
 
 
 B.E./B.Tech./B.Tech.(Agriculture Engineering)/B.Tech.(Diary Technology)/B.Tech.(Food Technology)/ B.Tech. (BioTechnology) / B.Pharm.( )/Pharm-D(MPC).
 
 
 B.Sc.(Agriculture) / B.Sc.(Horticulture)/ B.Sc.(Forestry)/ B.V.Sc. & AH / B.F.Sc. / B.Tech. (Food Technology).
 B.Pharm. / B.Tech.(Bio-Technology) (Bi.P.C.).
 Pharm-D (Bi.P.C)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
