LUDHIANA: There is good news for people who want to grow vegetables for self-consumption, but do not have the space for it. It is the Income- Tax department, surprisingly, that has found a way out for them. Almost a year after the I-T department of Ludhiana’s green plastic initiative of making vertical gardens in the city turned out to be a huge success, the department’s ‘green team’ has registered yet another unique achievement, by successfully growing vegetables vertically.

 The team conducted an experiment at the department’s   office by planting tomato seeds in some plastic bottles installed on the walls of the department, and a few days ago, they discovered that tomatoes had started growing successfully. Jubilant over the accomplishment, the green team has now started work on making a full-fledged vertical vegetable garden, and in the first phase — along with growing tomatoes —other vegetables too would be grown.
 
 Speaking to TOI on the new development, Income Tax chief commissioner Binay K   — who is spearheading the green plastic initiative — said: “The   at I-T department’s Rishi Nagar office gave us another happy surprise a few days ago. An experiment by way of tomato seeds in one of the plastic bottles in the vertical garden yielded the first pair of tomatoes, germinating, and tossing up a salad-full of possibilities and ideas.”
 
 He added: “Earlier, we had considered setting up a rooftop garden in tubs, which would also grow vegetables. With the success of vegetables growing in bottles on walls, we are thrilled as it would provide every citizen the scope of having a kitchen garden without occupying any space on land. We will grow cherry tomatoes, salad greens, parsley, thyme, basil, peas, and even ‘karela’, and strawberries in the bottles. The advantage is that the vegetables will be totally organic, as we use coco-pit. They will be protected from ground-level predators, and won’t spoil from sitting on bare soil.” 
 
 Jha further added: “We are working out methods to secure the roots of the plants laden with vegetables, as the plants will need support or stringing, so they do not pull away from the soil. The inherent advantage of using plastic bottles is that the bottle cutting pattern combined with other support can firmly secure plants and prevent them from slipping from the bottle. We are really looking forward to sharing the success of our   with everyone, by adding the exciting and productive new dimension of healthy, chemical-free vegetables to the gifts of clean air, cooler environment, and a visual delight.” 
 
 According to additional commissioner   — a part of the green plastic initiative team: “This vertical vegetable garden can prove to be a boon for people who want to grow vegetables for self-consumption, but do not have space for doing so. We are ready to help residents interested in taking up such initiatives in their homes or elsewhere.” 
 
 
