DHAKA: Before Turkish poet   left Istanbul to witness Bangladesh's New Year celebrations, he had no idea about the secular fabric of the country. Bangladesh, he believed, was largely about floods, crowd and poverty. His impressions changed radically when he saw   ushered in their Bengali New Year – 1425 - in   on Saturday. The happy poet exclaimed saying his next writings are sure to reflect his discovery of Bangladesh's secular fabric. “Even Istanbul - a city known to the world as a confluence of all religions - can learn a lesson or two from contemporary Dhaka,” Agil said.

 
  
 
 
 
 Constitutionally, Bangladesh is a secular country. Although Islam has been given the status of state religion (inserted in 1988 by Gen Ershad), the amended constitution currently has added that the state shall ensure equal rights of other religions. People here subscribe to different faiths but they willingly take part in festivities of other faiths.
 
  
  
 
 
 That was evident at both the Ramna Park and Mongol Sobhajatra celebrations. Six-and-a-half-year old Musa Al Arabi had got the words ‘Shubho Naba Barsha’ painted on his left cheek before he entered Dhaka’s Ramna Park on Saturday morning. Taking turns to go up and down a playground slide, Arabi said: “I played as well as listen to the ‘Esho he Baishakh’ song that Chayanat performed at the Batamul.”
 
  
  
 
 
 Nobody bothered about his religious identity. That he is a proud Bengali, who loves his culture, was all that mattered. So was it for eight-year-old Musalim who studies in a Madrasa at Chandpur had also come along with baby sister Habiba. “Pahela Baishakh is an inclusive occasion,” his mother said, echoing the spirit of what current prime minister Sheik Hasina has tried to promote - faiths belong to individuals but festivities belong to all.
  
  
 
 
 Those who joined in the celebrations insisted that this secular festival – which has now become a national phenomenon – had effectively broken down the narrow religious divides. Students stayed up all night to design huge masks – devoid of any religious symbolism. Tableaus and palanquins had children - decked in saris and floral headbands – sitting inside. It was hard to say which religion they subscribed to.
 
 Even the strong contingent of 10,000 cops deployed for providing security weren’t left out of the celebrations. They offered roses to people and wished them Shubho Naba Barsha even while discharging their professional duties. Selim Reza – who described himself as a warriors of Ganajagoran Mancha – took this occasion to protest against terrorism and eve-teasing!
 
  
  
 
 
 Culture, he agreed, was the best weapon for fighting radicalisation. Fundamentalists might have tried to oppose such celebrations but their arguments didn’t convince the masses who spontaneously took to the streets – singing and dancing to drum beats.
 
 Such celebratory spirit was infectious, said Mamata Sengupta – a Kolkata resident who had taken along Khadi Begumpuri saris for her relatives in Dhaka that they all wore Saturday. “It is sheer euphoria to usher in the Bengali New Year in Dhaka. The exuberance of celebrating a secular festival is an addiction. Even in Kolkata, I don’t see this spirit on Naba Barsha. I wish, I can return to Dhaka every year for Naba Barsha,” Sengupta said.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
