CHENNAI: A member of the   for more than 40 years and the party's MLA (2011-16) from Chidambaram constituency, K   was recently elected the party's   state secretary. A veteran, who has taken up the cause of farmers, Balakrishnan spoke to B Sivakumar on the present political situation in Tamil Nadu and the CPM's growth plans : 

  What is the significance of the decision to focus on the Tamil language at the party's recent state conference in  ? 
 
 Tamil Nadu is the only state where a party came to power on the issue of language. But Tamil has lost its importance within the state after 1970. Hardly anyone is ready to join MA (Tamil) and only students from the dalit community are joining the course. But they don't get proper jobs. Hence, we have decided to focus on this to draw attention towards Tamil and Tamil culture. 
 
  Is there political space for parties like CPM still, with popular actors like   and Kamal Haasan entering politics? 
 
 We have good support in the villages where people are suffering without proper income. Our party works at the grassroot level unlike others and we will definitely expand
 
  Have Prakash  's comments on DMK upset your party's friendship with the Dravidian major? 
 
 Karat has only said that the DMK is not the same as it used to be, after M Karunanidhi became inactive. There is nothing wrong in what he said and he did not criticise the DMK. 
 
  CPM has many seniors, but not many youngsters as in other parties. Has CPM failed to attract the youth? 
 
 It is not correct to state that the party has only seniors. In any protest whether it is against NEET or in support of farmers, it is only the youth who are on the ground on behalf of CPM. There is anger against the present state government and in rural areas more youth are attracted towards CPM.
 
  Will there be any change in the way the party looks at various issues? 
 
 A change in the state leadership will not immediately change the party's decisions. In CPM, decisions are not taken by any individual but by collective leadership. We will work jointly to woo rural citizens as the standard of living in villages has gone down in the recent years. 
 
 
