Chennai: Amrita Vishwa Vidyapeetam’s technology business incubator will invest $2,00,000 in three startups — Yellow Messenger, Linksmart DNA, and Bookmydiamond.com — who emerged as winners of PitchFest 2018. 

 Over 800 startups from 22 states participated in the competition and showcased their ideas to potential investors. Krishnashree Achuthan, CEO of Amrita Vishwa Vidyapeetham’s Technology Business Incubator (TBI), said, “This year, Amrita TBI focused on selecting startups that have successfully combined innovative technologies with a high impact on India’s development. We are delighted to see startups coming up with ‘green solutions’ with a global appeal.”
 
 All top 30 startups were offered incubation and different levels of mentorship. “Winning is not the end of the quest. Our idea is to encourage entrepreneurship and we offered assistance for all top 30,” added Achuthan.
 
 The top three startups bagged funding along with incubation and other support. Bengaluru-based Yellow Messenger is a conversational AI platform for enterprises to automate conversations with customers across channels. Founded by Jaya Kishore Reddy, Rashid Khan, Anik Das and Raghu Ravinutala, the company has been part of the Microsoft Ventures incubation program.Linksmart DNA, founded by Pradeep Varma, Ashish Anand and NP Chidananda, is a Bengaluru based startup that secures products and packages from counterfeiting, tampering, refill and warranty fraud. 
 
 Mumbai based Bookmydiamond.com offers a technology platform for jewellery retailers to search a live inventory of loose and certified diamonds and buy them. The company raised funding from a group of investors in May last year.
 
 Amrita TBI has incubated 83 startups and mentored 216 startup ideas and is among the few to see close to 100% success rate with its startup investments. “” We are dilligent about keeping up with milestones and we ensure our startups meet these milestones realistically. When you have such rigour, you can avoid failure,” said Achuthan.Ends
 
 
