CHENNAI: The state government’s directive to arts and sciences colleges that application distribution must start exactly five days after the declaration of Class XII state board results and must end in the next five days has sent alarm bells ringing among parents of students of schools under the   which normally announces results in mid-May. Incidentally, the CBSE results this year could further be delayed due to the economics retest.

 
 TN Class XII results are likely to be out on May 16 and admissions to government, aided and self-financing colleges could end around May 26.
 
 CBSE students in the state are unlikely to get a fair chance to join the course of their choice, say parents. “It is disappointing to see CBSE students, even meritorious ones, finding it difficult to get admission in the 11th hour,” said Ashok Shankar of the TN CBSE Schools Management Association. The state government’s deadline is only to ensure that state board students have an edge over others, he said.
 
 
 
 
 Except for a few colleges that reserve seats for CBSE students, most finish admissions by the time CBSE results are out and repeated requests to bring uniformity in declaration of results have gone unheard, he added.
 
  holds back 20%-30 % of the 2,750 seats for students of CBSE and other boards as well asthosewhofailedtobag an engineering or medicine seat. “Though we hold back only 10% for CBSE and other board students, we end up allocating nearly 30 % as many offered admission in the first round decline it later,” said professor   of Loyola College.
 
 Retired principal of a government-aided college in Chennai said the chances of finding a CBSE student in popular courses like B Com, BBA,B Sc(maths andscience) andBA(English)in top collegeswere remote.
 
 There is nothing wrong in marking 5%-10 % of the seats for them and distribute applications after CBSE results are out, said   general secretary  . “Butwe arescepticalif allseatswillbefilled as there is a misconception among CBSE students that standards in government colleges are not good.”
 
 Director of collegiate education J Manjula, who released the admission guidelines for 2018-19 on Monday, wasunavailablefor comment, but a senior official said the procedures adopted in 2017-18 werebeing followedthis year.
 
