Coimbatore: Abandoned by her family at the age of 13, life has not been a bed of roses for Taslima Nasreen, 33, a transgender. Born as the seventh child to a family in Tirupur, Taslima came out of the house to commit suicide. But she was rescued by a group of transgenders who saw her sleeping in a park in Tirupur. 

 If not for them, Taslima would not have been crowned today as the nation’s first transgender to be nominated as the Swachh Bharat ambassador by the Coimbatore Corporation. 
 
 “I was studying in Class VIII when my family beat me severely and finally abandoned me. They were not in a position to accept the fact that it was not my mistake on becoming a transgender,” says Taslima.
 
 “If my parents and brothers had noticed me in Tirupur, they would have killed me. So, I moved to Bengaluru where I underwent sex change surgery,” says Taslima.
 
 Taslima approached many companies in Bengaluru for a job but in vain. So, she started to beg at traffic signals. “I was having jaundice and my health condition became very weak. So, I came to Pudukottai to get treatment. I realized then that transgenders don’t get proper medical facilities. Meanwhile, I met Anjalai from city-based Mahaveers Trust who offered to help me. She was one among those who was instrumental in me getting an identity in the society today,” she says. 
 
 Taslima Nasreen was offered a job in 2010 by the ‘Small Difference’, an NGO, to take care of patients abandoned by families at the CMCH. While working in the hospital, she doubled as cook. I started to cook mutton and chicken biriyani in many functions. 
 
 “I became a cook and expert in cooking non-veg. I started to cook mutton and chicken biriyani in many functions. I used to get calls from Kerala and entire western Tamil Nadu. I often visited many places for cooking and people started to like the food,” says Taslima.
 
 Meanwhile, Taslima Nasreen started a NGO named ‘Change Trust’ in November 2013 and became the founder and managing trustee of the trust. The trust has been serving society with the help of Rotary Club. The trust had donated 100 doors for the toilets at CMCH with the aid from Rotary Club.
 
 “Transgenders are not allowed to travel in buses and use public toilets. The society should adopt our community and treat us with dignity,” says Taslima.
 
 Change Trust is offering skills training programme for transgenders. “We are giving training on how to bake and how to make jewels to transsexual community,” she says.
 
 Taslima recently visited Thengumarada village in Nilgiris district. The people of Thengumarada have to cross a perennial river. There is no bridge facility. “Before my death, I would construct a bridge with the help of state government at Thengumarada village,” says Taslima.
 
 
