NAVI MUMBAI:   from the forest department and Cidco carried out a joint inspection of the   along   road earlier this week as per the latest direction of the Bombay high court. Petitioners fighting for safeguarding these eco-sensitive areas were also part of the inspection team.

 Activist Sunil Agarwal whose PIL before the high court was clubbed with an earlier petition of Navi Mumbai Environment Preservation Society (NMEPS) said, “The state forest department officials and those of Cidco were present for the joint inspection of the affected mangroves and wetlands at Palm Beach road on March 28. It has been a positive development since the officials have now personally seen and noted down the points we had earlier submitted in our petition before the high court. We hope for a positive legal outcome in the future court hearing dates.”
 
 The joint inspection team first visited the parts where a lot of earth and   had been dumped by a JCB machine (near Seawoods Estate phase-2), Agarwal said. “Since most of the dumped earth and debris has affected the mangroves, we pointed out the same to the officials. Our demand is that the water body should be protected and preserved, so that such illegal activities are fully plugged,” Agarwal added.
 
 Activist Sandeep Bangia, a member of NMEPS, said a lot of positive work has happened in the last four-and-half years since the first PIL was filed in the high court in 2013. “As Sunil Agarwal’s petition is similar to our PIL, they were clubbed. We are also fighting against the proposed golf course next to Palm Beach road as it is a proper wetland and several hundreds of local and migratory birds visit these areas.”
 
 Meanwhile, Agarwal also informed that the inspection of a 12-hectare land area close to TS Chankaya in Nerul could not be fully completed as they have first demanded exact land markings and status report of the plot from the authorities. 
 
 “This particular patch of wetland near TS Chanakya is likely to be inspected at a future date once the land status is known,” the activist said.
 
 The formal report of the joint inspection will be submitted before the high court division bench of Justice A S Oka and Justice R I Chagla who will next hear the matter on April 6.
 
 
