NOIDA: As Noida Authority mulls hiring a private agency to take over the maintenance of Noida stadium, the RWA federation has written to Noida chairman Alok  , urging him to priortise the interest of residents who will have to shell out more in order to use its facilities. 

 The Federation of Noida Residents Welfare Associations (FONRWA) has urged Tandon to keep the management and maintenance of the stadium under the authority itself with an effective monitoring system. However, in case the authority does take the private route, the RWA federation has demanded a formal memorandum of understanding (MoU) in place. “In case it is decided to place the management and maintenance of the stadium in the hands of a private agency, we would like to suggest that while finalising the MoU or agreement, interests of Noida residents should be duly protected. For this, the agreement should entail specific terms and conditions to monitor the maintenance of the stadium. It should not prescribe any unreasonable high entry fee and provide ample opportunities to the participating residents in various games and athletics,” said A N  , secretary general of FONRWA.
 
 Noida ACEO R K   said the authority will hire a sports consultant agency, which will work under its ambit to enable the functioning of Noida stadium and manage various sports activities here. “We are spending a lot of money on Noida stadium but not earning any revenue from it. We have been working on hiring a sports consultant agency for the stadium since the last three-four months. Soon, we will float an ‘expression of interest’ to narrow down the choices for best agency to carry out the job. Once the agency starts functioning here, we expect good coaches, equipment and training for the people who will be provided better facilities,” Mishra told TOI.
 
 The authority, which is at present in charge of operating the facilities of Noida stadium, will continue to be in charge of the stadium as the new agency that will be hired will still be under its authority, explained Mishra.
 
  “All rates, charges, facilities at the stadium will continue to be decided by Noida Authority and will be best suited to public needs and interest,” said Mishra, who hopes to have everything in place by June this year.
 
 
