CHITRADURGA: Tension prevailed in Nayakanahatti village of Molakalmuru assembly constituency in   district, following protests against   MP B Sriramulu, who was given the ticket from there, by supporters of sitting MLA S  .

 
 Stones were pelted at Sriramulu's car and slippers hurled, while women were out on the streets with brooms and men did urulu seve (rolling on the ground) to show their dissent over the ticket being given to him.
 
 Sriramulu faced the fury of Thippeswamy's supporters, while coming out of the temple after a darshan of the Thipperudraswamy deity in Nayakanahatti. They shouted slogans against Sriramulu and in favour of Thippeswamy, and tried to picket Sriramulu and other BJP leaders.
 
 The protesters assaulted Molakalmuru taluk BJP unit secretary Venkataswamy. The women brandished brooms and shouted slogans of "Sriramulu go back!" Some miscreants pelted stones and footwear at Sriramulu's car, breaking the windows.
 
 Protesters even started urulu seve to block the road to the temple. When the situation went out of control, police resorted to a mild lathicharge. BJP leader R Ashoka, who was accompanying Sriramulu in his car, claimed the protesters were not BJP workers but sponsored by the  . "I have been working for the BJP in Molakalmuru but I haven't seen any protests by the party till now," he added.
 
 He said Thippeswamy had won last time holding Sriramulu's photo during campaign. "Let him intensify the stir. We won't bother, and Sriramulu will definitely win with a minimum margin of 50,000 votes," he added.
 
 SELFISH LEADER: THIPPESWAMY
 
 Thippeswamy said he had now realized that   was not a leader and had set his eyes on Molakalmuru for fear of losing from Ballari. "The protesters are BJP workers and my supporters, and they are hurt by the party's decision to give the ticket to Sriramulu. If he contests from here, I am also strong enough to win. The party might have decided to field Sriramulu as part of its strategy, but he has every right to decline," he maintained.
 
 Asked if the Congress has invited him to join the party, Thippeswamy said no party had contacted him. "If BJP doesn't give me ticket, I'll contest as an Independent. My voters are more important to me than Prime Minister Narendra Modi."
 
