Veteran actress T  , 84, succumbed to a prolonged battle with a terminal illness early on Wednesday morning. She had acted alongside some of the best known heroes of her times, across different industries, including Dr  , NT Rama Rao,  , Kanta Rao and  . She was the sister of actress   and is survived by her daughter Dipika, son-in-law Vikram and grandson Pavan.
Janaki says, “It was our mother’s wish that we spend our retired lives in each other’s company. I shifted to Bengaluru and we used to meet, go for walks and catch up. We never knew when her health complications turned fatal. Eventually, she gave up battling the prolonged illness. I’m older to her by just over a year, so we had grown up together, with great attachment to each other. I’m shattered that she is no longer with me.” She had earlier said, “My sister was the glamourous one and her movies portrayed her beauty and glamour. As a person, she has enormous patience and has single-handedly supported my mother and my siblings. I have always admired her loyalty to the family.”
 Krishna Kumari, who began her acting career in 1951, reached her peak over the next decade, giving memorable performances alongside the biggest superstars of her era. She is best known for her roles in mythological films. In the Kannada film industry, she acted alongside Dr Rajkumar in memorable films, including Srishaila Mahatme, Bhakta Kanakadasa and Swarna Gowri. 
 Memories galore
 In Krishna Kumari’s memoir penned by her daughter, Dipika, that was released by her, many of her peers have recalled memories of her. Here’s presenting some of them:
 “It was LV Prasad who was keen to work with Krishna Kumari garu. When he produced Ilavelpu, released in 1956, he not only signed her up for the lead role, but also requested her to formally launch the film. Ilavelpu, which featured Krishna Kumari opposite Akkineni Nageswara Rao, was a super hit. In 1960, Krishna Kumari acted in Pelli Kanuka, again opposite Akkineni. She followed this with a film opposite NT Rama Rao. Vittalacharya, popular as ‘Janapada Brahma’, cast her in Voddante Pelli, an adaptation of The Taming of the Shrew,” says film historian SV Rama Rao. “Again, a success! Vittalacharya went on to direct about 25 folklore movies, several of which starred Krishna Kumari and NT Rama Rao, including Bandipotu, Irugu Porugu and Chikkadu Dorakadu,” says Rama Rao. 
 Late superstar Akkineni Nageswara Rao had said, “In my long career in the film industry, I have worked with many important, talented and wonderful heroines. Krishna Kumari is one of them — a beautiful and expressive heroine. We have worked in several movies together and one of them is Bharya Bhartalu, a heroine-oriented film, where she plays the lead role. She was known for being extremely co-operative and for being a director's heroine.”
 Famed actress B   recalls, “Krishna and I have worked together in Pelli Kanuka as sisters, and later in Rahasyam. I consider her as one of my closest friends. For as long as we lived in Madras, we were also neighbours and visited each other’s homes often. I knew her family members and she knew mine. When the studios shifted to Hyderabad, we would schedule some of our travels together. Boarding the Dakota aircraft in Madras (Chennai), we would would talk non-stop until we landed in Hyderabad. Of Krishna, I can say that I have never seen her angry. She assumed responsibility of her family and took care of every single member cheerfully. It must have demanded enormous sacrifices, but she did it.”
 Multilingual star  , who has worked with her as a child artiste, had written, “I was a child when I worked with her and she was a big star. And I remember feeling that a princess had entered the room when she came onto the sets. She was soft spoken, always smiling and with such a sweet voice... tall and graceful, she had a presence about her. Working with her was always a pleasant experience.”
 
 
