MUMBAI: Parel’s   (EBCRC), the biggest in the state, is overflowing with   to such an extent that many are getting wasted. In the past six months, 84 therapeutic corneas have found no takers. This state of affairs has prompted the   to request the   government to withdraw its prohibition on sharing of corneas with other  . 

 Around 2016, the Parel eye bank managed to reduce its waiting period for patients with bilateral corneal blindness and for young children to one month from a year and a half to two years earlier. The feat, though, has created a unique problem of surplus  , which has led to unavoidable wastage when combined with a diminishing demand from surgeons. Even with advanced preservation solutions, a cornea can be preserved for just 10 days. 
  
 
 EBCRC staffers told TOI that over the past six months, they have made frantic calls and written emails to hospitals and surgeons across the city, the Mumbai Metropolitan Region and even Pune but failed to find much demand for corneas. “It has become more grave in the past three to four months when we had to discard 84 corneas,” said Jaswant Mehta, one of the trustees of the eye bank, which distributes around 40 to 50 corneas a month.
 
 Mehta, who has championed the cause of eye   for decades, pinned the blame on a 2008 state notification barring them from sending corneas, even non-viable ones that can be used for teaching or training purpose, outside Maharashtra. “When the state proudly shares organs such as heart and lungs with others, why should there be a prohibition on sharing of corneas?” he asked and added that the eye bank has written to principal health secretary Dr Pradeep Vyas asking for a reconsideration of the 2008 decision.
 
 Though the state has seen a steady increase in eye donations over the years, the utilization is merely 40-44% due to quality issues.
 
 Maharashtra, said Mehta, is the only state in the country to have passed such a “restrictive policy. In states such as Bihar and Odisha, eye banking is in nascent stages and they have an acute scarcity of corneas”.
 
 Reiterating the EBCRC stand, senior surgeon Dr Quresh Maskati said it is time the state rethinks its decision. “Perhaps such a decision was valid in 2008 when we used to have a massive waiting list. But that has changed and we are definitely left with a surplus,” he said and added even with 100-odd surgeons performing corneal transplants in the state, the supply has been fairly adequate. 
 
 Mehta said the state previously used to send at least 100 eyeballs to the L V Prasad Eye Institute in Hyderabad, where even doctors from Maharashtra receive training. 
 
 A closer look into the issue, though, suggests that eyeballs are in excess due to lack of a centralized system to connect the tissues and hospitals. The state figures suggest that at any given point in time, more than 2,000 people wait for corneas. 
 
 At the state-run J J Hospital, inarguably the most in demand for eye treatment, the wait list is at least a year. “It’s true that whenever we need a cornea on an urgent basis, it’s available. But it would be incorrect to say that we routinely have the best quality corneas at our disposal. We still have a long way to go in terms of donations from young donors,” said Dr Ragini Parekh, head of opthalomogy, J J Hospital.
 
 
