HUBBALLI: H D  , JD(S) state unit president, claimed here on Saturday that a report prepared by the state intelligence bureau (political desk) indicates that   is not a “viable constituency” for chief minister   and suggested four alternatives.

 He released a copy of the report dated April 5 which recommends Siddaramaiah contest from Varuna (Mysuru), Basavakalyan ( ), Gangavathi (Koppal) or Shantinagar (Bengaluru).
 
 The CM’s secretariat swifly issued a clarification, dubbing the report as a “fake document’’ and ordered an inquiry. “The document is in English when it should have been in Kannada,’’ Siddaramaiah’s office said.
 
 The report says, “Chamundeshwari is not a viable constituency as there is a strong caste-based mobilisation of the Vokkaliga community being carried out by G T   and other local leaders of JD(S).’’ Unlike his predecessors who visited the constituencies they were contesting from just for a day or two before campaigning ended, Siddaramaiah pitched camp in Chamundeshwari last week and rushed there again on Friday to meet Vokkaliga leaders. Siddaramaiah has made it clear he’ll contest from Chamundeshwari and his doctor-son Yathindra from Varuna if the   gives him a ticket.
 
 CM misused power: HDK
 
 “It’s true there is pressure on me to contest from another constituency in north Karnataka. But this is because my presence there will benefit other Congress candidates. But come what may, I’ll contest from Chamundeshwari,’’ Siddaramaiah had said earlier.
 
 Kumaraswamy alleged that asking a report from the intelligence department after the poll code had come into effect was a clear case of misuse of power by Siddaramaiah who is heading the caretaker government. “Being a CM, Siddaramaiah is worried about his election and that’s why he’s considering contesting from more than one constituency,’’ he said.
 
 Kumaraswamy suspected  , adviser to the home minister, was instrumental in getting the report done. “If Siddaramaiah had sought this report before announcement of election dates, it would have been acceptable. But it was prepared on April 5 and submitted to the CM’s office the same day. We have learnt that similar surveys are being conducted in some other constituencies. As this is a serious violation of the model code of conduct, we’re filing a complaint against the state government and intelligence officials before the Election Commission,’’ he said.
 
 He demanded an inquiry into the report. “If the report is fake, then the EC should inquire who created it,” he added.
 
