MUMBAI: When 43-year-old driver   parked a BMW near an actor and masturbated on Monday, doctors said he was indulging in exhibitionism that is a type of mental disorder.

 “Paedophilia too is a mental disorder. Just as perpetrators of paedophilia are punished, exhibitionism too needs to be treated as a sexual offence,” said psychiatrist Dr Harish  .
 
 Statistics emerging from Mumbai police files show that more cases are being filed against perverts. If some of it is the result of education and better awareness, Mumbai police spokesperson DCP Deepak Deoraj believes more women now come forward with sexual harassment complaints since they trust the police to get the accused/pervert arrested and punished.
 
  
  
 Like Monday’s incident, when the actor’s husband tweeted about the incident, some recent cases seem to indicate that social media has proved an effective platform to call out perverts, more so since police are beginning to pay attention.
 
 On Monday, the   police team arrested   within two hours of an FIR being filed. Chaudhari, who confessed to committing the offence, was produced before the Andheri court on Tuesday and has been sent to judicial custody.
 
 Exhibitionists thrive on the shock factor. “Call it voyeurism, flashing or exhibitionism, the person feeds on his victim’s reaction. The victim’s shock or fear arouses them. For some, the fear is the stimulation for masturbation,” said psychiatrist Dr Jalpa Bhuta.
 
 While exhibitionism is mainly a mental disorder, it is also linked to personality problems. Dr Vishal Sawant, who heads the psychiatry department of BMC-run Cooper Hospital in Vile Parle, said: “It could be either of these factors or both.”
 
 Shetty said exhibitionism is also a sociological problem. “We hear of teens who flash from their balcony at women living across. Such incidents happen across the country and it is becoming blatant because of the anonymity that the sense of alienation in our society provides,” he said.
 
 The perpetrators usually think they can get away. “Not everyone thinks they can get away with an offensive or criminal act, but a person with exhibitionism thinks he can,” said Sawant.
 
 While exhibitionism is common, it is still not that common for every victim to report the matter. “Most victims feel it is a one-off behaviour. They don’t want legal hassles and hence don’t report,” said Sawant. Incidentally, not many patients with this disorder come seeking help too. “Sometimes, a relative or a parent notices such behaviour and brings the patient to us,” he added.
 
 Doctors said since exhibitionism is a mental disorder, it is not something “every Tom, Dick and Harry would do”. It is more common among men, but not unknown among women, they added.
 
