NAGPUR: The   is set to conduct fresh survey of properties to be affected due to widening of 3.28km stretch of   from   to   T-point. The city survey department will carry out measurement of the properties on the stretch. 

 The much-delayed project has been revived following assurance from Union transport minister Nitin Gadkari to fund the road widening cost.
 
 A senior official from city survey division number 1 told TOI that the civic body will pay Rs29.46 lakh to the city survey department for the job. The city survey officials would measure area of every property to be affected due to the work.
 
 “The land plan schedule will include identification of road width, survey number and survey plot number of commercial and residential properties along the road,” the official said, adding that as per city survey records, the road stretch passes through 5 to 6 city survey sheets.
 
 After this, the extent of area that needs to be acquired and property analysis will be done and meetings with property owners will be held, said a senior official from NMC’s development plan road department.
 
 Old Bhandara Road connects   to other areas within the city and provides a gateway to the Ring Road. Currently, the road width is 20 feet which is not enough for a hassle-free traffic movement. At some places, encroachments have reduced the road width to just 4 metres while at other places the width is 14-15 metres. 
 
 On July 17, 2017, the high court had ordered the   to widen the road within three months. The NMC conducted a survey and also initiated land acquisition process to widen the road to 60 feet. 
 
 In the land identification process, it was found that around 444 houses will be affected due to road widening. A suggestion was made to provide transfer of development rights (TDR) and extra floor space index (FSI) to the affected property owners but no decision was taken on the same. “Because of the civic body’s laid-back attitude, the HC order was never executed,” the NMC officer said.
 
 As the city survey department is authorized to conduct measurements of properties, the civic body has approached the department, the officer said.
 
 “In the final stage, the NMC will acquire the land needed for road widening by offering TDR, FSI or monetary compensation to the affected property owners,” he said. To a query, the officer admitted this will increase the project’s cost to over Rs1,000 crore.
 
 
