CHENNAI: The absence of a mechanism to conduct checks and issue completion certificates for housing projects in areas under the directorate of town and country planning (DTCP), has put the   ( ) on a sticky wicket. 

 As a result, the regulating agency is unable to initiate swift action against developers who violate the rules. On the other hand, the   (CMDA), which covers the city and parts of   and Tiruvallur districts, issues completion certificate after inspecting the constructions.
 
 According to TNRERA sources, the   act does not permit it to inspect buildings. 
 
 "In the event of the real estate regulator receiving complaints from the buyers with regard to deviated portions in DTCP areas, TNRERA cannot act on such complaints because there is no provision to verify if it is a violation in the absence of the completion certificate. Grievances with regard to the units featuring in the planning permission could only be addressed (immediately)," an official said.
 
 But, violations can be eliminated if completion certificates are made mandatory in areas under the DTCP which covers the entire state except for Chennai Metropolitan Area. 
 
 "For instance, power and sewerage connections can be denied if a portion of a building has deviated from rules. This would ultimately lead to a delay in handing over apartments to buyers. Such discrepancies can be avoided if getting a completion certificate is made compulsory as the structure would be inspected," the official said. 
 
 Though TNRERA has not received any grievances in this regard, an official said such complaints are possible in the future. 
 
 Ongoing housing projects above eight (apartment) units in an area of more than 5,000 sq ft, should be registered with TNRERA. Of the 295 housing projects registered, nearly 180 are in the DTCP areas.
 
 The department of housing and urban development has proposed to make completion certificates mandatory in DTCP areas. 
 
 In July 2017, it convened a meeting of stakeholders, including developers, to elicit views. 
 
 A DTCP official said draft rules for the process of holding checks and issuing completion certificate have been circulated to various departments. 
 
 The government is likely to issue an order in a month, the official added.
 
 
