NOIDA: Calling the state government’s ordinance on school fees an eyewash, parents’ groups in Noida and Ghaziabad have said it will only end up benefit private schools more. 

 The parents, who are still waiting for a full draft of the ordinance, contend none of their suggestions seems to have been incorporated in the ordinance.
 
 All Noida School Parents Association (ANSPA) president   said the features of the ordinance shared by the state government has made it clear that the government has legitimised “overcharging” by schools. “It is an eyewash. We had demanded a cap on the school fees, but on Tuesday the government said the same can be increased between 7% and 8%,” he told TOI on Wednesday. “Parents will continue their protest against the ordinance as and when it comes,” he added.
 
 The state cabinet had on Tuesday gave in-principle approval to the UP Self-Financed Schools (Fixation of Fee) Ordinance 2018. And deputy CM and education minister Dinesh Sharma said the ordinance prohibits private schools from charging admission fee more than once per student while it allows students to pay only for those services which they avail of.
 
 Seema Tyagi, president of Ghaziabad Parents Association (GPA) , said the government “is fooling” the parents by disclosing the salient features of the bill to control “our movement during admission time”. 
 
 “It has said that no school can charge fees on an annual basis even as there is hardly any school which is doing so. By saying that the fees can be charged on a quarterly or six-month basis, the government has opened avenues for even those schools that are not overcharging to do just that,” she said.
 
 She also ridiculed the government’s decision to “allow schools to continue to use their premises for commercial purposes.”
 
 “One of the major suggestions was that commercialisation like sale of books and uniform, etc inside the school campus should stop. But the government says the schools can indulge in commercialisation but this income needs to reflect in the school’s account. This will lead to even average schools resorting to commercialisation,” said Tyagi.
 
 Further, parents have also complained about the fee regulatory commission to be headed by the divisional commissioner.
 
 Vikas Bansal, vice-president of   (ANSPA), said one of their main suggestions was to set up this committee at the district level. “Fee hike is a major issue in   cities but the provision that the schools can increase fees with permission from divisional commissioner will lead to fee hike in all schools in other districts of a commissionerate,” he said.
 
 When contacted, director of secondary education Awadh Naresh Sharma said that the cabinet can take a two to three days to approve the ordinance. “We can discuss once it comes,” he said.
 
 
