NAGPUR: Four captivating plays of 20 minutes duration each were staged during   Adda’s ‘Canvas 4.0’ organized at Chaos Theory on Saturday. The theme for the plays this time was ‘cardinal points’ in addition to the four elements of the world, namely, wind, fire, water and earth, one included in each play.

 First play titled ‘North’ revolved around Khaled who was stuck midway in a choppy sea while on his way to California to meet his grandson Dhruv. Amid the chaos, he wishes to buy something special for Dhruv for his birthday so that he remembers him and is constantly lost in that thought. Even though Khaled fails to meet Dhruv, the longing brings back the poet in him and in the end he recites a poem carved especially for his grandson on the phone as a gift. The subtle play was written and directed by   and NV Sharma respectively.
 
 Following North was the drama ‘East’ written by Khatija Ferhy and directed by   which uniquely showcased a conversation between a writer and her story. The writer wishes to write an ordinary story with mellow characters but the story wants itself to be full of fire and exhilaration. The beautiful and perfectly coordinated display of dialogues on one side and the story that is being framed on the other, left the audience spellbound.
 
 The only Hindi play of the evening, ‘Paschim’ was a fun roller-coaster ride. Very well written and directed by Nitish Chandra and Varun Vij respectively, the story was based on groom-kidnapping in  . Vicky is kidnapped and forced to marry a village girl named Paschim at gunpoint. What transpires during the couple’s first night is what the play was all about. The actors highly impressed the crowd with the realistic expressions and dialogue delivery.
 
 The concluding skit ‘South’ was on a slightly romantic mode. A young couple Apurva and Parth meet at their favourite spot for final time before Parth departs for New Zealand, seemingly never to come back. At the very same location, to their surprise, arrive Darshan and Uttara, a couple who have gone through a similar situation earlier and are going through it again. Conversations of love and life follow. The music added magic to the play which was written and directed by Onkar Ghare and Bianca Nazareth-Arya respectively.
 
 “Adda is a platform for experimental theatre where I have no role to play which gives the artists a liberty for their self-expression. These varied themed plays bring out the skills of the artistes and also ensures their growth. With every edition, I try to push the benchmark a bit higher,” said Vikash Khurana, playwright and founder of Stagecraft.
 
 ends
 
 
