CHANDIGARH: The Chandigarh bench of   dismissed an application seeking quashing of chargesheet and disciplinary proceedings against an executive engineer of UT electricity department Anil  .

 The tribunal, in its order, stated that a writ petition is considered when a right of any party is infringed and that, a mere showcause notice or chargesheet does not infringe the right of anyone. “It is only when a final order imposing some punishment or otherwise adversely affecting a party is passed, that the said party can be said to have any grievance,” it further stated. The bench also mentioned that neither the disciplinary proceedings nor could the chargesheet be quashed at an initial stage as it would be a premature stage to deal with the issues.
 
 This comes after   had put a stay on the punishment of recovery of Rs 10,000 imposed on Dhamija in December last year. Dhamija, in his application to the tribunal, had stated that a penalty was imposed on him as the recovery of Rs 10,000 and a recorded warning, for delay in filing a written statement in the case of ‘Kashmira Singh and ors vs UT, Chandigarh and ors’ in which he was cited as the nodal officer, though in fact he was not.
 
 Dhamija had claimed that he was cited as a nodal officer to update the case on CCMS (Court Cases Monitoring System) while communicating to the legal representative of  , although he was not. The case was fixed for hearing on June 9, 2016, while and Dhamija informed the section engineer (SE) of electricity circle about the name of nodal officer, email id, mobile number and designation on June 8, 2016. The high court then passed an order in the case, “No reply has been filed so far. Although the reply was ready, but it was not signed because of which it could not be filed earlier. This shows that the competent authority took a period of four months in signing the written statement, which shows a totally irresponsible and casual approach on their part.”
 
 Following the order of the high court, Dhamija, who is the executive engineer was issued a showcause notice along with SE (electricity) who were involved in the process. The chief engineer, on May 22, 2017, had issued the showcause notice to Dhamija on the ground of not filing the reply, which resulted in imposition of penalty of Rs 20,000. Dhamija was then called to file a reply within one week, failing which necessary action would be initiated against him without giving any opportunity to the applicant coupled with deduction of penalty amount from him. Dhamija submitted his reply on June 2, 2017 to showcause notice claiming his position in the subject matter hoping for fair consideration at the level of concerned authorities and seeking documents. The order of imposition of penalty by UT adviser was served upon Dhamija.
 
 
