The bodies of 11 police firing victims at   are to be embalmed and preserved at the government hospital in the troubled coastal town, the Madras high court said on Wednesday.

 A directive to this effect was issued by a division bench of Justice T Ravindran and Justice P Velmurugan on Wednesday, on a PIL filed by a group of advocates who wanted the court to appoint a team of private doctors to conduct autopsies on the bodies with video recording.
 
 Allowing a PIL from advocates, S Jimraj Milton, D Paarventhan and  , the bench made it clear that the bodies should be preserved until further orders of the court. The bench also allowed advocates to render legal assistance to victims.
 
 The PIL sought an inquiry by the principal district and sessions judge,   with regard to “sniper shooting” by the police in plainclothes. It also wanted teh court to direct the government to prosecute the collector and Tuticorin SP for ordering the police firing.
 
 Appearing for the petitioners, advocate R Sankarasubbu submitted that people of Tuticorin were afflicted with health ailments due to the Sterlite smleter units, and that they had no alternative remedy other than protest.
 
 “They protested for 99 days with a single demand to close the factory and on May 22, the 100th day of the agitation, the struggle committee and people decided to lay siege to the collector’s office to advocate the importance of their demand,” counsel stated.
 
 The protest began in a peaceful manner and the general public participated in the rally towards the collector’s office, the petition said. Instead of allowing them to assemble peacefully and then disperse, the administration provoked the rallyists by preventing them and launching lathicharge.
 
 Countering the submissions, additional advocategeneral of   said, “We are with the people and we are for the people,” to which the bench responded: “We know what is happening.”
 
 Sampath further submitted that all procedures had been followed scrupulously without any deviation.
 
 “Four judicial magistrates are monitoring the postmortem. The government has appointed a one-man commission to probe the incident and, therefore, the prayer in the petition had become infructuous,”   said.
 
 The judges adjourned the hearing to May 30.
 
 
