KOLKATA: A fresh seizure of around Rs 2 crore in cash from a   flat owned by a close acquaintance of retired IPS officer Bharati Ghosh’s husband   on Wednesday has come in handy for state CID probing the cash-for-gold case.

  According to CID, investigators got the key to the flat from Raju that establishes his acquaintance with the flat owner. This is over and above the Rs 2.4 crore the CID had seized from   flats a few days ago.
 
 
  
 Meanwhile, two Midnapore police officers once close to Bharati — Chitta Pal and Subhankar De — who are now in police custody, have applied to give confidential statements in this case before a judicial magistrate under Section 164 of CrPC.
 
  rubbished the CID claim. Calling it a “cooked up” story by the agency, she claimed that the CID had “forced the key to the flat” in her husband’s pocket when he went to Bhabani Bhavan for questioning. “My husband MAV Raju is on anticipatory bail. He was summoned to Bhabani Bhavan at 8am today for questioning. If my husband had kept the money in the Bansdroni flat, he wouldn’t have taken the key with him and waited for the CID to ask him for the key. This is common sense. The fact is, CID got in touch with the flat owner on Tuesday, took the key from him and kept the money at the flat at night. When my husband went for questioning, they forced the key into his pocket. They then took Raju to the Bansdroni flat and asked him to open the door,” the accused police officer said from an undisclosed location.
 
 The CID, meanwhile, has got hold of as many as 50 land deeds in Ghosh and Raju’s name, a senior agency official said. The market value of those lands is around Rs 300 crore that far exceeds the asset declarations the accused IPS officer made to the state government and in her income tax returns.
 
 CID officials hope to identify some more benami properties that the couple had acquired during Ghosh’s tenure in the police service. Investigators maintain that the value of the 750 gramme gold jewellery seized from Ghosh’s lockers at the   branch of a nationalised bank on Tuesday is much less than that of the land assets. Before and after the seizure, CID officers questioned Raju about the family’s monthly income to find out how the couple acquired these assets in 24 years. Investigators are not convinced that Bharati could do so with her tax-free income during her assignment at the United Nations for a couple of years.
 
 
