BENGALURU: A Sri Lankan girl, who was lured to Mumbai by a   with promises of opportunities in   – later brought to Bengaluru and sexually assaulted – was on Friday put on a plane back home. The 14-year-old girl was accompanied by her mother.

 Upparpet police arrested   from Haveri, who allegedly held the duo against their wishes and sexually assaulted the girl. He has been booked for rape and under Pocso Act. Patil, in his mid-20s, is the son of a rich businessman from Haveri, frequented showbiz circles and had a fetish to flaunt that he had contacts in Bollywood.
 
 According to Upparpet police, the mother and her daughter recently approached them, saying they had fled from Patil’s captivity at a Majestic hotel and that he was trying to push the girl into flesh trade. The cops swung into action and took Patil into custody. The mother and daughter were sent to an NGO, Talash, for counselling before being sent home to  .
 
 Police said Patil befriended the girl on   and told her that he has stakes in Bollywood. He claimed to know top stars and even saying that he was upset with all the uncertainty over Padmaavat, in which he had investment.
 
 The girl was looking to have a career in showbiz and told Patil that she wanted to model and act in movies. Patil promised the girl that he will get her enough chances and asked her to come down to Mumbai.
 
 The girl, however, landed in Mumbai in November, not alone as Patil expected, but with her mother. “Patil’s calculations went for a toss on seeing the mother,” police said.
 
 Patil told the duo that there are modelling opportunities awaiting the girl in Bengaluru and brought them to the city. He lodged them at the Majestic hotel. “One day, he offered fruit juice spiked with a sedative to the girl, when the mother was watching TV. Patil allegedly sexually assaulted the girl. The mother and daughter fled from the hotel room at the next available opportunity and came to us,” a senior police officer said.
 
 Patil has been remanded in judicial custody.
 
 
