Ludhiana: Acting on a complaint filed by city-based RTI activist Rohit Sabharwal, the state Vigilance department has asked principal secretary of health and family welfare department to conduct a departmental inquiry against district health officer (DHO) Dr Andesh Kang, and submit a report within two months with the Vigilance department. The activist had raised allegations against Kang for adopting corrupt practices by not taking action against owners of hotels, restaurants, food junctions etc, despite the fact that they sold adulterated and stale food items.

 In his complaint, Sabharwal had alleged that the DHO and her team — instead of collecting food samples from served food or where food was prepared, preferred to collect samples of branded items, which already fulfilled the required standards. He mentioned that from January 1 to December 31 last year, only 925 food samples were collected from food operators, whereas thousands of people were running hotels, restaurants, bakeries, food junctions, dairies etc, in the city.
 
 He also mentioned that it was mandatory for those in the food business to fulfil hygiene and safety requirements, so that the health of people consuming their food is not at stake. “But in the city, it is usually noticed that many vendors, restaurants, dhabas, bakeries, sweetshops, milk product dairies, food corners etc. do not wear gloves, mouth mask, or head gears, while selling their food items,” he said, alleging that Kang was least bothered to ensure implementation of these provisions and keep a check on the food business operators for reasons that Kang and her team were being paid to remain silent in the matter.
 
 Meanwhile, Kang denied having information about an inquiry marked against her. She said since she had joined duty in Ludhiana, the number of samples had increased, as there were 954 samples in 2015, 896 in 2016, and 975 in 2017. She informed that in 2018, until March 23, the department has already filled 342 food samples, adding that it was the job of food safety inspectors, and not the DHO, to fill samples.
 
 “As per government guidelines, we have to fill 40% loose samples, and 60% packed samples, but we are filling 51% loose samples, and 49% packed samples, because loose samples fail more, and in the city, more than 25% of the total samples get failed,” she said, adding that they were not favouring anybody. 
 
 
