Feminism and women’s liberation had a long history, dating to the Sangam age. So it seemed as we gave a hard relook at the life and works of  , a Sangam poetess, as it unfolded on stage. 

 The play ‘Avvai’, written by revolutionary poet   and directed by A Mangai was recently staged by ‘Marappachi’, a theatre troupe, in the Therukoothu format at Loyola College. 
 
 Peppered with meaningful poetry, dialogue, songs and punch lines, the play sought to rediscover Avvai who has so far been portrayed as a typical grey-haired old lady, who resorts to didactic verses. Inqulab’s Avvai is a sprightly woman who loves the charm of life, is a champion of women’s freedom and is capable of being loved and falling in love too. The story revolves round the refined relationship between Avvai and king Adhiyaman. 
 
 The play begins with a kabaddi match between two teams, who chant Avvai’s lines from ‘Aathichoodi’ instead of the usual ‘tho-tho’, while wondering how Avvai was like. Was she like the character in the parody, ‘Avvai Shanmugi’, or the way actors T K Shanmugam or K B Sundarambal portrayed her in plays and films? Or was she like the statue near the Marina beach? They conclude that many Avvais may have existed. 
 
 The narrative continues with scenes that bring forth arguments about the state of women — either confined to the homes, bound to the patriarchal notions of chastity or leading a free and adventurous life. 
 
 Avvai is seen travelling with the   (nomads) community, and the narrative is interspersed with accounts of the struggles (like the drought) of the community, its music and cohesiveness. An interesting episode is the part where speculation is rife about the gender of the unborn child of king Adhiyaman, and how a female heir would be unwanted. The play through one of its characters, also suggests a romantic relationship between Avvai and king Adhiyaman. But, Avvai dismisses the idea with a hearty laugh, stating that it would be better to see it as "an exemplary relationship between a man and a woman and not necessarily between a man and his woman". 
 
 The devastation caused by Adhiyaman’s war with king Thondaiman of Thagadur kingdom is presented in a gruesome form, setting a sequel to the peace-negotiation to be done by Avvai. On the request of Adhiyaman, Avvai visits Thondaiman and praises his war resources while lampooning the same at Adhiyaman’s camp. Thondaiman falls prey to the praise and calls for peace. This emissary assignment Avvai undertakes is itself enacted as drama within a drama.
 
 The play staged by a motley mix of veterans, youngsters and media students gave actors ample scope for body language. With Nellai Manikandan on the drums, Mukhaveenai played faultlessly by Chandran provided live background music that seamlessly integrated with vocals sung by the actors themselves. The selected songs were culled from Purananooru, an ancient work in Tamil literature that talks of the political and social history of the Tamils.
 
 (The writer is a music critic)
 
 
