HYDERABAD: Seven to 10 years down the line a parallel Hyderabad will be living, travelling, working, shopping and operating at an elevated level, with a series of skywalks connecting the   rail with residential complexes, schools, colleges, offices, malls, stadiums and even parks. This was disclosed by   Rail Limited (HMRL) managing director   at an exclusive interaction with TOI journalists on Wednesday.

  
  
 
 The much-awaited metro rail work in   will be kick-started in 2019 and completed in three years. The HMRL managing director said people in that part of Hyderabad have been eagerly waiting for metro rail to chug through their areas.
 
 While currently a network of skywalks connecting the Hyderabad Metro stations to various infrastructure facilities is being planned, a parallel Hyderabad will come into existence only after all the three corridors of the Hyderabad   are completed as well as the proposed skywalks.
 
 “Once the skywalk network is complete and integrated, many people might not require to get down to the road at all. There will be one Hyderabad at the the road level and another will operate at the sky level,” said Reddy.
 
 There are in fact many cities across the globe that exist at two or even three different levels. For instance, cities like Tokyo and Hong Kong live at the under-ground level, road level and at the sky-level.
 
 The HMRL hopes to create at least 200 skywalks around the core of the city through which the three metro corridors will run. It has currently expedited design work for skywalks at important stations and stations in narrow areas. The construction work is expected to in a year’s time, confirmed Reddy. “As per the plan we will be giving access to schools, colleges, residential complexes and offices. Once the parallel level is operational, the traffic at the road level will reduce. It will also be easy for people to completely avoid driving on the road level,” said Reddy.
 
 While keeping an eye on a futuristic Hyderabad in the sky, the Metro Rail Project has also focussed on developing road-level infrastructure, including last mile connectivity with the help of bike stations and bicycle tracks. Pedestrian facilities, footpaths, street furniture and creation of public spaces have also been taken care of. Most of the completed Metro stations have state-of-art infrastructure in place apart from landscaping and plantations, Reddy said. Feeder bus service (electric buses) is to be introduced over the next three to four months.
 
 Stressing on how the Metro Rail Project has thrown open an opportunity to rebuild and redesign the city, Reddy said the project will transform it in many ways. “Right from reducing road congestion to creating better public spaces and reducing pollution, there will be many changes,” he said.
 
