KOTTAYAM: Neurosurgery is no longer a man’s domain. But there was a time when women doctors shied away from specializing in the field. S Pushkala, a former head of neurosurgery department,   ( ), who broke into the male fiefdom decades ago, also happens to be the first woman neurosurgeon in  .

 The neurosurgery department of the KMCH formed in 1968 is celebrating its golden jubilee this year. Pushkala is the only woman in the list of people who led the department in the past five decades. 
 
 The list includes K M John, C A Rajan, B Ekbal, K Jayakumar, K Mahadevan, who is Pushkala’s husband, and the present HOD P K Balakrishnan. Pushkala, now retired, was the HOD during 2003-2006 period.
 
 “There are very few women neurosurgeons in the country. At present, the number may be a little over 50,” said Pushkala. 
 
 Neurosurgeons need to devote long periods of time while doing a surgery and this could be a reason why less number of women specialized in it.
 
 “Earlier, the mortality rate was high and there was little support from machines and equipment which we have now,” she said.
 
 A neurosurgeon will have to spend on an average three to four hours on a surgery, sometimes even without the luxury of a break. 
 
 “The longest surgery I did was in Thiruvananthapuram MCH. It took 10 hours to complete and it was successful too,” she said. 
 
 Pushkala said she had to deal with around 5,000 head injuries per year resulting from mishaps while working at the medical college here. She has served in KMCH for 20 years and another 10 years at other government medical colleges. It was Pushkala who introduced music therapy in neurosurgery in the state. Her music background was one of the inspirations for this. 
 
 Pushkala said that being a woman never affected her work. “I had told the staff that for any emergency I will reach the surgery table in two minutes. I stayed near the hospital. Even at odd hours I drove to hospital without losing time,” she said. One surgery which is very special in her memory is that of her tutor and former HOD Dr C A Rajan. “He has recovered and is practicing at the age of 80,” said Pushkala.
 
 The student will be meeting her guru during the two-day celebrations of the golden jubilee year, which will conclude at   on Sunday.
 
 
