BHOPAL: With summer-like days and no rains, Madhya Pradesh is witnessing one of the driest winters in history.

 Rains stayed away in most parts of the state, including Bhopal this year — which led to a sharp increase in temperatures. With bleak possibility of showers in the near future, the situation is likely to stay the same. The rising temperatures will adversely impact the crop production in state.
 
 Director of Meteorological department, Bhopal circle, Indrajeet Verma said that the dry trend is a matter of concern. “There has been no rain in Madhya Pradesh this year, barring one or two occasions in isolated areas. Development of weak western disturbance is the cause for this.” Western disturbances develop in  . “This year, the system that developed was less and did not pass over the state. The system moved upwards. This is a sign of climate change and needs to be studied,” said the official.
 
 This departure from the trend can be felt day to day, as the maximum temperature in many areas of state is touching 30 and is recorded way above the normal mark. The day temperature in Bhopal on Friday was recorded at 31.4 degree Celsius — five degrees more than the normal mark.
 
 The highest maximum temperature recorded in February in Bhopal was on February 22, 2006 at 37.6 degree Celsius. February 2018, however, will be the hottest February ever in Bhopal, according to weather officials, as the day temperatures are touching the 30-degree mark only in the beginning of the month. Similar pattern is observed in other parts of the state.
 
 The highest temperature in MP on Friday was recorded at 33 at   — seven degrees above the normal mark. Met department says that the rise in temperature will continue.
 
 The state has been waiting for winter rains since November. According to the decadal records of Met department on rainfall in Bhopal winter, the city witnesses showers on at least five to six occasions from November to February.
 
 In 2010, Bhopal saw rains on 14 occasions from December to January. In 2011, it dropped to five occasions in winter. In 2012, there were showers only in January. In 2013 and 2014, it rains six times in winter months and in 2015 the city witnessed seven wet spells in December and January.
 
 The same trend was observed in 2016 with five wet spells in winter season, and in 2017. But, for this winter season which has seen no rain. Met officials say that the trend is the same state-wide as well as nation-wide. Winter rain and snow is not only important for Rabi crops but also for recharge of underground aquifers. Winter rains also play an important role in cleansing the air, as pollution usually peaks during this time of the year as mercury plunges.
 
 January this year has seen record low rainfall across the country because the path of western disturbances, which bring cold and wet weather into north India, has been more northerly than usual, met officials added.
 
 
