MUMBAI: With Thursday being the last day for round 1 of post-graduate medical admissions, it is likely that, for the first time, all seats in private colleges will go vacant as there was no breakthrough in the fee stalemate on Wednesday too. 

 This year, the   (FRA) has stipulated a three-tier structure under which a college can charge NRI quota (15%) students up to five times the fees of merit students while management (35%) quota students can be charged up to three times. But private colleges want to charge management quota (35%) students on par with NRI quota. There are 400   seats in private medical colleges in the state.
 
 Private college managements met the medical education secretary on Wednesday and demanded that they be allowed to charge higher fees. They were asked why they had not appealed to the FRA. The meeting ended inconclusively and will be continued on Thursday.
 
 “We will declare the first list without private colleges as they have not come on board,” said   (DMER) head Dr  . Meanwhile, the DMER has come up with a solution to accommodate as many students as they can in the second round. However, it is not clear whether the solution would allow students to pursue the master’s degree in their choice of branches.
 
 The DMER will meet students who were allotted seats at private medical colleges in round 1 and were turned away. “They will be told to write down their experiences at the medical colleges and the fact that they were not admitted,” added Shingare. “Once we take down these complaints, we will make these students eligible for our second round,” he added. 
 
 To date, of the 900 seats in the public colleges, 800 have been filled. Apart from the 100-odd vacant seats in government colleges, the DMER is expecting another 200-300 seats to surrendered from the all-India quota. Those seats will also be made available in the fresh round.
 
 Except  , no private college is admitting candidates. Guards have been telling students the colleges have an issue with the fees determined by the state.
 
 
