CHANDIGARH: The much-awaited report of   commission that had probed controversial land deals in Gurgaon, including those of former   president Sonia Gandhi’s son-in-law Robert Vadra, may see the light of day as the   on Monday set a deadline of two months for the Punjab and Haryana high court to decide the petition challenging commission’s constitutional validity.

 The report was submitted by Justice   on August 31, 2016 but it could not be made public after former Haryana chief minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda had challenged its formation before the HC.
 
 “We are given to understand that a commission of inquiry was appointed by Haryana to enquire into certain facts concerning acquisitions in respect of lands in   and that the matter is presently subject matter of challenge before the Punjab and Haryana high court on account of which further steps are held up. We request the high court to deal with and dispose of the matter preferably within two months so that public interest may not suffer by delay in such decision,” ordered a division bench comprising Justice A K Goel and Justice U U Lalit.
 
 The apex court has passed these orders while setting aside Hooda government’s decision of dropping the land acquisition proceedings regarding Manesar land in August 2007. The matter is pending before the HC since November 23, 2016 and heard 18 times by the HC. Senior advocate and veteran Congress leader Kapil Sibal has been representing Hooda in this case. The case is now listed before HC for March 27 and with Monday’s order, the court has to decide the issue by the end of May.
 
 Hooda has been accusing that the order to constitute Justice Dhingra commission was taken by CM   on May 13, 2015 at his own instance, prompted by malice and with a clear intention of portraying him in bad light. He has also questioned the validity of notification issued by state government on May 14 without there being any reference to the cabinet, which was mandatory in terms of provisions of Section 3 of the Act.
 
 Though the HC had not granted any stay on publication of the Dhingra panel report, Haryana government had assured the HC not to make it public till the decision on Hooda’s petition. On May 14, 2015, Khattar government had appointed one-man commission of retired judge of Delhi high court Justice Dhingra to investigate licences issued to develop commercial colonies in Gurgaon during Hooda-led Congress regime.
 
 
