SHIMLA: A forest guard has blown the lid off the illegal business of extracting   in the forests of Chopal in Shimla district that had been flourishing for the past several years.

 On January 23, forest guard   had uploaded a video exposing the illegal extraction of   oil in Kyari forest of Chopal sub-division on Facebook and it went viral soon.
 
 Waking up from slumber, forest officials launched a crackdown in the deep forest area. The department not only seized around 20,000 litres of illegally extracted cedar oil worth Rs 1.2 crore, but also found 15 illegal distilleries operating in the forest.
 
 After the matter came to light, forest minister Govind Singh   said a proper inquiry would be conducted and those guilty will not be spared.
 
 Cedar oil is extracted through the process of steam distillation from wood pieces of the cedar wood or deodar tree and is used for medicinal and health purposes. Most common uses include hair growth, anti-inflammatory agents, toothaches, reducing skin irritations, reliving spasms, curing fungal infections, repelling bugs, curing acne, stimulating metabolism, regulating menstruation, tightening muscles and cleansing out toxins.
 
 Sources said in the forest area where huge cache was recovered, no license to extract the cedar oil was issued since 2010.
 
 Sources said huge recovery and illegal extraction has also raised a question mark on the functioning of forest officials as it is hard to believe that forest officials deployed in the area were ignorant about the illegal activity all these years. It is believed that organized forest mafia was involved in this large scale illegal extraction of precious oil.
 
 Govind Singh Thakur said the state government was committed to wipe out forest mafia and forest officials have been directed to search the entire area to check any illegal activity.
 
 He said forest team had destroyed 15 illegal distilleries involved in extracting cedar oil. He said proper inquiry would be conducted and officials will be taken to task for laxity. “Police too have been directed to probe the matter,” he added.
 
 In  , at present seven units are engaged in the extraction of cedar wood oil and they are permitted to extract deodar stumps from Mandi, Chamba and Kullu circles. In Shimla circle, permission is granted only for Rohru forest division. As per the rule, stumps are brought to the designated unit where oil is extracted from the stumps.
 
 Box: Case registered
 
 A case under Forest Act was registered at Chopal police station on Sunday on the complaint of  , range forest officer, Sarain, Chopal. In his complaint, Thakur said he along with staff was on patrolling duty and when they reached Dogda Nala near the shop of Kirpa Ram, they got a smell of cedar oil. When they searched the shop of Kirpa Ram, they recovered 430 litre of cedar oil from his possession.
 
 
