KOZHIKODE: Sunni leader and general secretary of   Jem-Iyyathul Ulema Kanthapuram A P   met  , the King of  , who is on a visit to India. 

 Kanthapuram delivered a talk on 'Islamic heritage and models of co-existence' at a function organised in honour the King at Vigyan Bhavan in Delhi on Thursday. The Sunni leader also met Prime Minister Narendra Modi.
 
  
  
 
 "King Abdulla, who is born in the family of the Prophet, stands for peace represented by Islam. He has always opposed all the attempts to misinterpret the religion," the Sunni leader said. "Every year the King convenes international conference of Muslim scholars to strengthen the pluralist tradition of Islam and interaction among different communities. Muslims in India are against all kinds of extremism and we isolate those who try to spread terrorism," he said.
 
  
  
 
 Kanthapuram is an active member of The Royal Aal al-Bayt Institute of Islamic Thought in Jordan and was a special invitee at the conferences of scholars convened by the King in 2007, 2014, and 2016.
 
 A significant development at the function would be the release of Urdu translation of the book 'A Thinking Person's Guide to Islam' authored by Prince Ghazi bin Muhammad, King's cousin and Islamic scholar.
 
 Experts in the field of counter-terrorism believe that the book which contains a chapter on 'crisis in the ISIS' will help the de-radicalization efforts in India.
 
 Security agencies in India believe that the Islamic State (IS) cadres, who have been fighting in countries like   and Syria, will be forced to return to their country after the fall of the IS strongholds. The new phenomenon will pose a fresh threat to the country and the government agencies are busy preparing plans to face the emerging situation.
 
 Kerala police also are also engaged in the de-radicalisation process with the active participation of the Muslim scholars who are against the extremism. The deliberations in Delhi and the sharing of the experience of countering terrorism between India and Jordan will have a reflection in the state too, feel security analysts in Kerala.
 
