His roots are in the industry, but there’s nothing typically Bollywood about Vicky Kaushal’s film choices – be it his debut 'Luv Shuv Tey Chicken Khurana', subsequent projects like 'Masaan' or the upcoming ' ', directed by   and produced by   and  . Despite his dad (Sham Kaushal) being a renowned action director,   says that he was “willing to struggle for years” to make a mark on the big screen. Ahead of the release of 'Raazi', Vicky, who plays a Major in the Pakistani Army in the film, talks about how he prepared for the role and why the hero of the film doesn’t necessarily have to be a man. Excerpts...

 
 
 It was interesting to understand Iqbal Sayed not just as an army man, but also as a human being, a husband and a son. The role was also about the love for his country. 'Raazi', for me, is a human story – it’s much more than just a spy thriller. It is about intertwined lives and how relationships are affected in a cross-border set-up. I was curious to know how a Kashmiri girl could have married a Pakistani guy in the ‘70s. But Meghna (Gulzar, the director) informed me that back then, our borders weren’t even properly fenced and people could travel to and fro between the two countries freely. This was news for me, and it burst some of my preconceived notions about Indo-Pak rivalry. Also, playing Iqbal in this set-up has been an enriching experience. He is an army guy with a stern spine, but is soft at heart. That contrast was interesting to carry off in every frame. We assume army men to be strict disciplinarians, with hearts of steel, but there is a certain tenderness to Iqbal.
 
  
  
 
 
 We are conditioned to believe that the hero is always a man, but it might not necessarily be so. A hero could be anyone who does something heroic, irrespective of the gender. I am proud to be a part of this beautiful story, which needs to be told. We should know about anonymous people like Sehmat, who put the nation before themselves. That’s real bravery, sincerity and patriotism. Also, Meghna is known for dealing with subjects in a sensitive and responsible manner. I admire her for the topics she chooses; they are not easy to adapt into films. She is always walking on thin ice, zara sa bhi surr idhar-udhar hua, the story and characters could go for a toss. I had to just surrender to her vision and let her mould me into Iqbal Sayed. I also found a brilliant co-star in Alia; she is an actor who can’t be restricted to any genre. She doesn’t have any starry airs, so it’s easy to break the ice with her. I feel blessed to have had the opportunity to work with these two inspiring women.
 
 
 It has an anthem-like vibe to it. I get goosebumps whenever I listen to the song; it holds your attention and stays with you. All the songs in the film have a certain level of duality. In the film, Ae Watan is sung by a group of school kids in Pakistan and Sehmat is seen quietly singing for her watan, Hindustan. Similarly, Dilbaro, which plays during Sehmat’s bidaai, shows a father marrying his daughter off to a Pakistani army officer. But in reality, he is sending her as a spy to another country. The songs are beautifully woven into the story and they actually tend to blur the borders on a map. One relates to them, more as a human being, than a national of any particular country.
 
 
 
 I just follow my instinct. I read the script and listen to the narration from the audience’s point of view. For me, the story must be the hero of the film. The screen space or the length of my role does not matter. I aspire to be a part of a good story, because then, the actor will automatically shine through. I ask myself ki main jab last panna paltu, how will I feel as an audience member? If the story stays with me even for a day, it’s a clincher. I am also aware that we are part of an industry where an actor can often get slotted if he features in supporting roles in a few films. That’s a perennial fear that I have to face and overcome. I avoid repeating myself, whether it’s the genre, emotion or character. I feel blessed to have joined the industry at a time when people want to see unconventional stories with unconventional faces. Today, even big budget films are content-oriented, not many of them rely on larger-than-life and unrelatable concepts. Films like 'Raazi' are instrumental in creating that shift for actors, directors and the audience. If I had made my debut 20 years ago, it would have been tougher for me to be accepted as a hero, and play such roles.
 
  
  
 
 
 Our (Vicky and his brother, Sunny Kaushal) focus was always on academics and sports. Films were never a part of our dinner-table conversations. In fact, before becoming an actor, I had visited film sets just twice. The only benefit of my dad being in the film industry was that I got a reality check right from the start. I wasn’t delusional and didn’t want to be an actor just for the glamour. I have seen my dad’s journey, his sacrifices and his sincerity towards his work. After I completed my engineering course, when I expressed my desire to be an actor, the first thing he wanted to know was if I thought it would be an easy road. However, acting was my true calling and I was willing to struggle for years. I didn’t want to regret not following my heart. Once he realised that my intention was right, he said, ‘I will always stand by you as a father, but never as an action director’.
 
