GURUGRAM: The Delhi-Jaipur highway was choked for almost three hours on Thursday afternoon when a group of villagers and the family of a 21-year-old man who had passed away sat at Manesar Chowk to   against the hospital where he was treated. 

 The protest began around 1 pm on Thursday, when Deepak Yadav’s body was being taken from the General Hospital to the village for his last rites. Hundreds of people sat in the middle of the road, blocking traffic coming from Gurgaon and headed to Manesar. Even as police tried to reason with the villagers, the jam worsened, with the tailback almost touching   toll plaza 10km away. The other side of the carriageway was also choked.
 
 Scores of cars, autos and buses of them tried to drive over the median verge to take a U-turn and head back towards Gurgaon but ended up aggravating the gridlock. Traffic started clearing up only between 3.30pm and 4pm. 
 
 “We eventually convinced them to move away from the road. The jam was cleared in around 20 minutes even as the tailback continued for over an hour,” said a traffic cop at the spot. A unit of   was also called out.
 
 The family later filed a complaint at   police station. “An FIR in such cases can only be filed after a recommendation of the medical negligence board. We’ll submit our probe report, including the post-mortem, to the chief medical officer, and they will decide whether it’s indeed a case of medical negligence,” said inspector Sudeep Singh, SHO, Sushant Lok police station.
 
 Deepak was admitted on Monday to Paras Hospitals in Sushant Lok 1 with fluid in his lungs. He died of cardiac arrest on the intervening night of Tuesday and Wednesday. The younger of two siblings, Deepak was pursuing an MBA. Over the past week, he had intermittently experienced mild chest pain. He had also visited General Hospital on January 25, when doctors had diagnosed that fluid had accumulated in his chest, his family claimed.
 
 Since the discomfort was minor, the doctor had asked him to get regular checkups done. Elder brother Sandeep said when Deepak finally consulted a doctor at Paras on February 15, he was advised that the fluid should be removed. Deepak was hospitalised on February 19. He passed away on the morning of February 21. The family also accused the hospital of overcharging them when they were billed Rs 1.85 lakh.
 
 A Paras Healthcare spokesperson said the charge were baseless. “We’ve been completely transparent in our approach. The patient was being treated for pleural effusion and had sudden cardiac arrest. Multi-disciplinary teams were working on him. Throughout the treatment, his family was updated on the progress. We extended our full support to the family,” the spokesperson said.
 
 Dr  , the forensic expert who conducted the autopsy, said, “His right lung was grossly diseased and deeply congested. There were clots in his lung and he was treated for the same. Complication followed, which may have led to a cardio-respiratory arrest. We’ve sent viscera samples for histopathology.”
 
 
