NEW DELHI: Congress on Wednesday lashed out at Karnataka governor  , accusing him of violating the Constitution by inviting BJP to form the government and said it was against the law laid down by the Supreme Court last year.

 “The Karnataka governor has ‘encountered’ the Constitution at the behest of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Amit Shah,” Congress spokesperson   said.
 
 “The governor has acted as a stooge of BJP. His actions are immoral and illegal, and an immoral and illegitimate government will take oath in Bengaluru tomorrow (Thursday). It is a black letter day for India’s democracy,” the Congress leader added. 
 
 
 BJP launched Op Lotus from Raj Bhavan: Cong
 
 Congress spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said BJP had launched ‘Operation Lotus’ from Raj Bhavan this time, referring to then chief minister B S Yeddyurappa’s 2008 strategy to win over MLAs from the rival camp.
 
 The BJP leader is set to take oath again as CM on Thursday. Senior lawyer and Congress MP P Chidambaram said the SC had laid down the law in the Goa case on March 14, 2017. “The governor holds an exalted office and should not walk on a perilous path that is illegal. He is bound to invite the leader of the alliance which commands the majority in the assembly,” he added. The CM-designate had been given 15 days to turn his tally into a majority.
 
 In Goa case, however, the SC had also observed that Congress had failed to present its claim to counter the one presented by BJP and its post-poll allies. Congress said the governor’s decision to invite BJP to form the government was aimed at helping the saffron party cobble a majority through horse-trading. “Vajubhai Vala denigrates the governor’s office, tramples upon the Constitution, abuses the law and acts as a BJP puppet... As BJP’s Twitter handle informed in advance, orders come from BJP headquarters,” Surjewala said.
 
 Chidambaram said the governor should not behave like British adage ‘foot of the chancellor prevails’. “Governor invites Yeddyurappa to manufacture a majority in 15 days. Governor gives Yeddyurappa 15 days to convert the number 104 into 111,” he said. Kapil Sibal added, “Mann ki baat has turned into ‘dhan ki baat.”
 
 Citing the examples of Goa, Manipur and Meghalaya, AICC said the Karnataka governor was bound to invite the alliance with the majority, which is Congress-JD (S). However, in the Goa case, the SC had said Congress had failed to file it rival claim. 
 
