NAGPUR: It’s better late than never for  . After knocking the doors of Indian team for the last couple of years, the supremely talented city shuttler finally got the much needed breakthrough when she was selected to represent the country in the Uber Cup.

 
 Incidentally, Vaishnavi will be the first city player to don the India colours in Uber Cup. Arundhati Pantawane was selected in the Indian team for Uber Cup on two occasions but unfortunately she had to miss the tournament twice in a row. In 2012 when the tournament was held at Macau in China, Arundhati had to opt out at the last moment due to ulcer in her left eye which threatened to ruin her career.
 
 The former Indian star again had to sit out when the Uber Cup was held in New Delhi in 2014 due to shoulder injury. Indian team had bagged bronze medal that time. 
 
 “I was unlucky. It still hurts me. Missing back-to-back Uber Cup was a big disappointment. I heard Vaishnavi selected in the Indian team for this year’s Uber Cup. It’s a great opportunity for her. She should make a use of it,” said Arundhati.
 
 The prestigious BWF Thomas and Uber Cup Championships will be held at Bangkok from May 20 to 27. It is for the first time Vaishnavi got a break in the national team and that too in a major tournament Vaishnavi, who is currently India No. 2 in the BAI rankings of womnen’s singles, has been rewarded for her consistent performances in All India Senior Ranking tournaments in the last few months.
 
 “It was a big surprise for me. I really didn’t expect it. It’s a dream come true for me. I have always dreamt of representing the country. I am ecstatic. There is no doubt that this is the biggest achievement of my career. I hope to live up to the expectations and justify my selection in the team,” said Vaishnavi.
 
 The 21-year-old is excited to share the dressing room with Saina Nehwal and looking forward to learn from her. “I am really looking forward to meet her and learn plenty of things from her. She is such an experienced player. It’s really an honour to be part of the same team. I am extremely thankful to my coach   Sir for always guiding me. I would also like to thank my father Vilas Bhale and my mother Anjali Bhale for always supporting me,” said a jubilant Vaishnavi, a second year BA student of LAD College.
 
 Makode, who has mentored her since childhood, was elated with Malvika’s selection. “Our relentless hard work of years has been aptly rewarded. Since childhood, Vaishnavi has been sincerely following the rigorous training programmes I have been planning for her. Despite insufficient infrastructure and limited practice time Vaishnavi has achieved this. Her success will give confidence and motivation to the upcoming players of the city,” Vaishnavi, who practices regularly at VBA Hall, Shankar Nagar.
 
 Vaishnavi, who has represented the Indian University team for the World University Games on three occasion, has jumped three places to rise to India No. 2 in the rankings released by the   on March 30.
 
