GURUGRAM: The strike by   and   drivers may have failed to disrupt app-based cab services in   cities on Monday, but brace for inconvenience on Friday as multiple cabbie unions have announced a one-day protest in the region in demand for better pay. According to Ola and Uber driver associations, cab services will be suspended between 10 am and 3 pm when the drivers will assemble at Shaheed Bhagat Singh Park in Delhi and hold a rally asking for changes in the way these app-based aggregators are run.

 Among the major demands are that the Uber and Ola cab fares be determined by the government and fixed at a common rate, the commission taken by the aggregators be brought down from 25% to 10%, and pool or share rides be stopped.
 
 “The earning of the drivers have considerably decreased over the past couple of years but despite our multiple demands, these companies have not made any changes in the commission structures. It is high time the government intervened to save the interests of the cab drivers,” said Kamaljeet Gill, Sarvodaya Drivers’ Association. “The pool and share rides have become a big pain point for   as they include more effort and lesser money,” he added.
 
 The cab drivers have further demanded that they should be exempted from paying MCD toll tax if they are entering the nation capital without any passengers.
 
 However, their efforts for a strike on Monday fell flat due to lack of coordination. Many Uber drivers said they were not aware of a strike. The availability of the cabs and cab fares remained largely unaffected in Gurugram and other parts of NCR.
 
 But commuters said it would be a big problem in the city on Friday, especially in the absence of a public transport system. “Every time these guys go on strike, we land in trouble. One has to plan in advance on how would we reach the office on the day of the strike and even the autos start charging exorbitantly,” said Swati Sharma, who works with a financial firm in Gurugram.
 
 When contacted, both Uber and Ola said the commission it “charges is 20% for all products, all types”. There was no impact on cab services in Delhi and NCR on Monday, Uber added.
 
 
