INDORE: Taking a cue from the movie ‘Drishyam’, two persons killed a 19-year-old youth, threw his body in a well and tried to mislead police by throwing the mobile phone of the victim in a truck en route Maharashtra. 

 The accused were, however, arrested by   police late on Friday night and body was also recovered from a well in the area. 
 
 One Mahendra, son of Mangilal Porwal, a resident of Delanpur, had left his house in the evening on February 11 following which he went missing. His parents registered a missing complaint on February 12 and they also received a ransom call from Mahendra’s mobile phone. The accused demanded a sum of Rs 5 lakh from them on February 14. 
 
 Industrial area police was alerted about the matter following which a search operation was started and Mahendra’s mobile phone was put on surveillance. 
 
 After a while, when the location of the mobile phone started changing, Ratlam police alerted Dhar,   and   police about the case and they started searching the vehicles on the check posts. 
 
 Mahendra’s mobile phone was recovered from a truck at Barwani check post. During investigations it came to fore that the truck was ferrying some items from Ratlam to Pune and had no relation with the entire case. The mobile phone was seized and police started rounding up people for questioning. 
 
 Police received a tip off that Mahendra was last seen with Kishore, son of Ramchandra Patidar, 24. During sustained questioning, he accepted to have killed Mahendra along with his accomplice Pradeep alias Ravi, son of Mohanlal Prajapat, resident of Palsoda. 
 
 The accused told police that they took Mahendra to farm of Ravi’s uncle Bhanwarilal Prajapat where they first consumed alcohol with him and then used his muffler to strangulate him. The accused then removed his clothes, tied him with stones and threw his body in the well on the farm. 
 
 “The accused committed the crime because they had entered into a fight with Mahendra for keeping picture of a girl commonly known to them in his phone,” said Amit Singh adding that the accused were arrested and booked under relevant sections of the IPC. 
 
 As accused told police about the body, officials were sent to the spot. Divers were also involved in fetching the body of the victim. Mahendra’s body was found late night and sent for postmortem examination.
 
 
