BENGALURU: With the   election outcome throwing up a fractured verdict, the possibility of a coalition government looms large over the state, with JD(S) playing kingmaker. The   and JD (S) had run a coalition government in 2004, and the JD(S) and BJP in 2006. The junior partners on both occasions pulled the plug on the arrangement, accusing their ally of a “big brother” attitude.

 
 TOI looks at how coalition governments performed.
 
 After the 2004 elections threw up a fractured verdict, with BJP emerging the single largest party with 80 seats, Congress with 65 seats and JD (S) with 58 formed a coalition government, with Dharam Singh as CM and Siddaramaiah as his deputy. The coalition was under stress from the word go, as many senior Congress leaders, including DK Shivakumar, being kept out of the cabinet as demanded by JD (S) supremo H D  .
 
 Soon, differences cropped up between Siddaramaiah and Gowda over Ahinda rallies. Gowda warned Siddaramaiah to choose either the party or the Ahinda agenda. When the latter did not relent, he was thrown out of the party. MP Prakash, a Lingayat leader, replaced Siddaramaiah as deputy CM.
 
 In the meantime,  , then a firsttime MLA, gained the confidence of a majority of JD(S) MLAs and took control of the situation. When everything looked fine, Kumaraswamy, in a coup of a sorts, took over 40 MLAs with him and joined hands with the BJP, bringing the curtains down on the Dharam Singh government. He attributed his action to the alleged conspiracy by Congress to divide the JD(S).
 
 An angry Gowda expelled Kumaraswamy from the party. But it was too late by then, as Kumaraswamy had the support of more than twothirds of the party MLAs and the speaker later recognized his faction as the real JD(S).
 
 In 2006, BJP and JD(S) reached an agreement to share the CM’s post for 20 months each. Kumaraswamy became CM first, with BS Yeddyurappa as his deputy. Kumaraswamy’s ‘Village Stay’ programme was an instant hit and helped him endear himself to the rural masses. Meanwhile, Gowda softened his stand on his son and started praising the ‘good’ administration of Kumaraswamy.
 
 It was then that mining baron and MLA Gali Janardhan Reddy created a stir by accusing Kumaraswamy of taking a Rs 150-crore bribe from Ballari’s mining businessmen. However, the issue died a natural death with Reddy failing to produce any proof.
 
 Kumaraswamy completed his 20-month tenure. The problem cropped up when it was time to transfer power. In keeping with speculation in the media and political circles, dissenting voices emerged against giving power to BJP. Deve Gowda joined the bandwagon and ensured that Kumaraswamy fell in line.
 
 This led the governor to keep the assembly in suspended animation. Kumaraswamy suddenly announced that he would transfer power to BJP. Yeddyurappa, who was in Vaishno Devi temple, rushed back to Bengaluru and took oath as CM, only to be ditched by JD(S) again at the time of seeking vote of confidence. Yeddyurappa’s first tenure as CM lasted seven days.
 
