LUCKNOW: A UP-based social media adviser of   kicked up a big row when he announced on micro blogging site Twitter that he would not travel with a Muslim driver associated with location-based taxi app  .

 However, as massive outrage on the social media grew over him with demand to suspend his account with both Twitter and cab service, Ola hit back, saying their service is strictly a secular platform and the company would not support any views aiding disharmony.
 
 "Cancelling @olacabs booking because driver was Muslim. I don't want to give my money to jihadis (sic)" wrote Abhishek Mishra, who has a verified Twitter account while tagging Ola. Mishra’s 14,000-plus followers include   ministers Rajyavardhan Rathore, R K Singh, Mahesh Sharma, Ram Kripal Yadav, Narendra Singh Tomar apart from BJP MPs Manoj Tiwari and party's UP ministers including Swatantra Dev Singh and Suresh Rana among others.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 He was to travel between Butler Road, a posh Lucknow neighbourhood to polytechnic bus stop. The driver Masood Aslam, an owner of Wagon R was allotted to him by Ola. His comments were posted on Friday evening but got noticed on Sunday afternoon, hours ahead of the first visit by VHP's new international president   in Ayodhya to meet priests on Ram Temple clarion call before 2019 polls.
 
 Bangalore-headquartered cab operator released a stern reply to him. “Ola, like our country, is a secular platform, and we don’t discriminate our driver partners, or customers basis their caste, religion, gender or creed. We urge all our customers and driver partners to treat each other with respect at all times” said Ola.
 
 “The company does not subscribe to the views of individuals who want to create disharmony by using our platform,” it added.
 
 Speaking to TOI, Mishra, a 27-year-old graduate in Bachelor in computer application from Faizabad, said his comments and decision are retaliatory in nature and he stand by them with conviction.
 
  
  
 
 "I have repeatedly heard and seen remarks against Hindus gods especially demeaning mini idols of Hanuman dangling in cars and Shiva idols. I have said what other Hindus may wanted to say. I have no regrets" said Mishra.
 
 He shared Facebook posts while alleging insult to Hindu gods by a section of women and men in the past. Among his objections included a reference to Kerala-based female model's Facebook post to Ola, calling Rudra Hanuman as "belligerent Hanuman symbol".
 
 "If these views are acceptable, then why my views are not acceptable. Agar tum logo ko Hanuman ji ke rudra rup se apatti thi toh uske jawab ke liye bhi taiyaar rehna tha. Ab kyon bil bila rahe ho (If you had objection to Lord Hanuman’s Rudra avatar, you should have been ready for retaliation. Why are you complaining now?" he further wrote after outrage. 
 
 Asked whether his comments were disparaging for Muslim driver of taxi operator, "The whole world calls Muslims jihadis. I didn’t have anything personal against him. What I feel is felt by the rest of the world. I won’t mince my words".
 
 VHP confirmed that Mishra was an outfit worker but refused to react on his comments. 
 
 “I have only known Mishra as a worker who shifted from Faizabad to Delhi. The jihadism exists largely in Pakistan, Syria and Afghanistan. There are both good and bad Muslims in India. For example, Shia Waqf board chairman Waseem Rizvi who is working to bring Hindus and Muslims together for a Ram Temple,” said Sharad Sharma, spokesperson,VHP, UP.
 
