JALANDHAR: The   (SAD) has said a probe should be ordered into how law officers of the Centre handled the case in which the Supreme Court ordered the dilution of the provisions of Scheduled Castes/Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act.

 SAD spokesperson Pawan Teenu said on Friday that the Centre should take the matter seriously and check if there was any conspiracy when the case was being heard in the apex court. “It should be probed if there was any conspiracy in the handling of the case which led to the court’s decision. If there is role of any political person, it should be probed and brought out,” said Teenu, who is a Dalit MLA. He was flanked by party MLA Baldev Singh Khaira, also from the SC community, at a press conference here.
 
 Teenu said there were apprehensions among people that this dilution of provisions could be a first step towards a review of the Constitution. “Moreover this has come at a time when Dalits feel threatened and there have been several incidents of atrocities against them,” he argued. “We think Prime Minister   should intervene and assure the nation that these provisions would not be diluted. If required, the issue should be brought in Parliament and a fresh enactment be done to keep provision of the SC/ST Act stringent.”
 
 SAD has been blowing hot and cold on a few issues concerning the BJP-led Union government. The party has already been requesting the top BJP bosses to waive GST on langar at   (Golden Temple), the biggest free kitchen in the world.
 
 SAD’s   member Naresh Kumar Gujral has already made it clear that the party was unhappy with the way the coalition was being handled.
 
 He had pointed out that when appointments were made in   for Minorities and in National Commission for Linguistic Minorities, SAD was not even consulted. He also said no Sikh governor or vice-chancellor of any central university was appointed. Union government is yet to respond to its demand for amendment in Article 25 B of the Constitution to underline distinct Sikh religious identity.
 
 
