KOLKATA: A fire broke out on Wednesday afternoon in a godown on the third floor of a residential building at  , a congested pocket on  , where firemen said the owner had stored automobile spare parts, tyres and other inflammable items, flouting all fire-safety guidelines. Fuelled by the combustible articles, the leaping flames threatened to engulf the rest of the building and even those next door but a disaster could just about be avoided.

 
 A forensic test will ascertain the actual cause of fire.
 
 No one was injured as a family staying on the first floor of the house as well as occupants of an adjacent building were evacuated in time. But the blaze and the firemen’s effort to douse the flames threw traffic on the busy thoroughfare completely out of gear till evening. Nine fire engines took more than three hours to put out the fire on the third floor of 37B AJC Bose Road. Throughout the period, fire engines supplying water to firemen, took up a part of the road, leading to a jam. “The fire tenders are occupying a portion of the road as the work for cooling down the place is on. Despite the odds, we are trying to keep traffic moving,” said a traffic sergeant in the afternoon.
 
 This stretch of Mullick Bazar is dotted with shops selling automobile spare parts and tyres. At any time of the day, the carriageway is chock-a-block with vehicles, stopping by for repairs. Scared that their shops might be affected too, neighbouring businessmen downed their shutters for the day.
 
 Officers said the fire broke out a little after noon on the third floor, where the owner, who has a shop on the ground floor, stored his wares. “This is a residential building, which was being used for commercial purpose for storing inflammable articles. This is an illegal act. Moreover, we did not find any fire-fighting mechanism at the godown,” said a fire officer. It was first spotted by nearby shop owners, who saw smoke billowing out of a window on the third floor. They are the ones who alerted the owner, who was at his ground-floor shop. Within minutes, thick fume enveloped the facade of the building opposite the Nonapukur tram depot.
 
 “We panicked when we saw the flames. We alerted residents of nearby buildings and told them to evacuate. Shop owners started moving their stuff out,” said  , a motorcycle mechanic. “The flames were so threatening, I feared they might spread to my place too. I moved my merchandise to another place and shut my shop,” said  , a tyre shop owner.
 
 
