NEW DELHI: The Delhi   on Friday adopted a   on the first day of the Budget session, asking the Centre to take immediate steps to stop the  . Chief minister Arvind  , who backed the resolution, sought a two-year moratorium on sealing so that while the traders got immediate relief, the government and other agencies could complete all formalities to amend existing laws. The resolution will now be sent to the Centre.

 Kejriwal termed the sealing drive “a dangerous attack” on traders after demonetisation and GST. He urged political parties to rise above their differences and accompany his council of ministers for a meeting with the SC-appointed monitoring committee over the issue. 
 
 Traditionally, the first day of budget session is adjourned after LG’s address. However, on Friday, AAP MLA Saurabh Bharadwaj initiated a short discussion on the “suffering caused to the people of Delhi due to the sealing of premises and police brutality during the drive”. Condemning the “attacks” on traders, Kejriwal said they were not smugglers or “goons”. 
 
 Through the resolution, the House condemned the use of force and demanded that the drive be stopped immediately and shops be de-sealed. The resolution, passed by voice vote, also stated that the “unjustified” sealing was a direct consequence of the “negligence and inefficiency” of DDA and civic bodies. Kejriwal said: “It seems that a decision has been taken to shut down trade in the city. If this happens, it will not only affect traders, but also suppliers and workers.” The CM alleged that traders would not have faced such a situation had the BJP and   governments taken necessary steps.
 
 Leader of opposition Vijender Gupta tried to corner the government over its alleged failure to notify 351 roads for mixed land use. “All formalities for the notification of these roads have been completed,” minister   retorted. Kejriwal said the government would do everything within its power to stop sealing and accused BJP MPs of failing to raise the issue in Parliament.
 
 
