NAGPUR: State education department has directed all schools and junior colleges to make arrangements for live broadcast of PM Narendra Modi’s special address on February 16 for students on the topic of dealing with exam stress. Schools have been asked to especially ensure that Std IX-XII students listen to the broadcast as pressure of the board exam is more on them.

 The one-hour broadcast will begin at 11am and will comprise an address by the PM and answering queries of students. For the latter, students have to submit their questions on a specified website and selected ones will be answered by the PM.
 
 The event will be aired live by Doordarshan and   so that it reaches the maximum number of people possible. Along with the traditional mediums, the government is also leveraging broadcast technology of social media with the PM’s speech going live on Facebook and YouTube.
 
 The PM has previously addressed students specifically during Teachers’ Day and it has been broadcast live in schools as well.   is another broadcast by the PM where he connects with a broader segment through radio. Schools will be making arrangements in their auditoriums so that every student can witness the event.
 
 Since board exams in the state are about to start, the PM’s speech will coincide with practical exams at various schools or junior colleges. But since every institution has the freedom to conduct its practical exams according to its own schedule (they are simply given a window to complete it), the PM’s speech won’t cause a major hurdle. The education department has directed all institutes to reschedule the practical exam, if any, that would clash with the PM’s address.
 
 The state education department’s letter also makes it clear that the PM is keen to address students of secondary, higher secondary and junior college. All education officers have been asked to coordinate with their juniors and ensure dissemination of information to all schools. Officials will have to ensure that all principals are aware of the event and need for it to be broadcast live. Schools will have to make the logistical arrangements for facilitating the broadcast and also ensure that students specifically from Std IX-XII watch it.
 
 
