COIMBATORE: When Chennai City’s   lines up against former club   here on Saturday, there will be “no room for sentiments”. The 30-year-old might have spent four of his formative years at the top level with the Goan outfit, there are more pressing matters on his mind. He is currently an integral member of a CCFC side that is fighting relegation, and a win on Saturday might just pave the way for them to beat Churchill and stay afloat among the elites of I-League.

 
 “Churchill are opponents now. We have to move up the table. There is no room for sentiments now. We have to win against Churchill at any cost. After that, it will be very tough against East Bengal and Minerva. I obviously have fond memories from my time at Churchill. I captained them to the I-League title and also won the Federation Cup. However, CCFC is my concern now,” Ravanan said after practice on Friday.
 
 In case CCFC do not manage to avoid relegation, Ravanan acknowledged it will be a difficult time for the defender who has seen the team’s evolution right from the outset.
 
 “CCFC entered the I-League only last season. I have been there from day one. I have seen the effort the management has put in. Owner Rohit Ramesh was trying to get an I-League team for four years. I know the effort they have taken to promote local talent.
 
 “Earlier, there was only Indian Bank to promote talent from TN and I always maintain that I came through because of them. Due to CCFC last year, Nandha Kumar got an opportunity to make an impact. Someone else might get a chance next year. So it will be a huge loss if they are not there in the top tier,” he added.
 
 While the results have largely been disappointing for CCFC, Ravanan’s own form has not suffered a dip. However, he believes it is of little consequence unless he can help them salvage something from the season.
 
 “It’s a team game. Whatever your individual performance is, you always wish you can help in a winning cause. Our job is to not concede goals and we can take pride in doing that reasonably well. But still, you always feel it was of no use at the end. I’m hoping I can contribute to wins in the remaining three matches.”
 
 
