IDUKKI: In line with its heritage as an “ancient, apostolic church”, the   is likely to get   soon, a move that will confer substantial autonomy on it, allowing it, among other things, appoint its own bishops without Vatican’s prior go-ahead.

 Cardinal Mar George Alencherry, current head of the Syro Malabar Church, will by default become the first patriarch of the church. "We hope for the announcement of the patriarchal status of the Syro Malabar Church soon. The process of the patriarchal status has already been completed,” said a senior priest belonging to the Changanacherry archdiocese. "Now the Syro Malabar Church’s synod selects bishops and sends the list to Rome for final approval. When it gets patriarchal status, there is no need for consent from Rome to appoint new bishops" the priest said. However, KCBC’s official spokesperson Fr Varghese Vallikkat denied any knowledge of the patriarchal status. "I haven’t got any information regarding the announcement of the patriarchal status,” he said.
 
 Besides the Latin-rite patriarch of Jerusalem, the   currently has six other patriarchs, who head rites based in the ancient centres of the Eastern Church. According to UCA News, a Catholic website focusing on Asia, “a patriarch heads a federation-like system of dioceses of a particular rite. 
 
 
 
 Together with a Church synod, he exercises autonomous jurisdiction over the faithful of his rite, besides independently managing administrative matters and liturgy in his church”.
 
 The Syro Malabar Church and the smaller Syro Malankara Church are the two Oriental rites in India, both of which trace their origin to Saint Thomas the Apostle, who local tradition says landed in Kerala in 52 CE.
 
 Incidentally, talk of the patriarchal status comes as the Syro Malabar Church is embroiled in a land controversy, with Cardinal Alencherry at the centre of it. Several priests from Ernakulam-Angamaly archdiocese called it a “drama by some groups”. “The recent synod didn't discuss the patriarchal status of Syro Malabar Church.   is already aware of the land scam and other issues in the Church. We hope the Pope doesn’t give the patriarch’s post to Mar George Alencherry who is involved in the land scam" said a senior priest belonging to Ernakulam-Angamaly archdiocese.
 
 
