Colva: Soon after the Goa Board of Secondary and Higher Secondary Education declared the results of the Class X examination on Friday, Arakhit Patro was serving a family celebrating their daughter’s 91% score at a restaurant in Verna. Little did anyone know that the 18-year-old from Odisha’s Bhismagiri had also also scored 67% in the same examination — that too while working part-time as a   to support his family back home and without attending any private tuitions.

 A student of Our Lady of  , Patro was also adjudged the best boy of the year besides being the head boy and the captain of the school cricket team.
 
 He was 12 years old when his uncle brought him to Goa in search of work to help the cash-strapped family in Odisha. For two years, they searched for a job for him, but nothing materialised as he was too young to work. Finally, they met the owners of a restaurant in Verna —   H D’Souza and her late husband   — who got Patro admitted in Class VI at Our Lady of Merces High School. They looked after him as their own son and also took care of his education. Only after he turned 16 did the D’Souzas allow him to work part-time at the restaurant.
 
 “I struggled a lot in school initially because I did not English,   or Hindi. It took me a few months to catch up with the other students,” said Patro, who has scored 80 in Hindi and 76 in Konkani. In fact, he has scored nearly 60% marks or above in every subject.
 
 The hardworking teenager attended school from 8am to 2pm, studied from 3pm to 6pm and worked from 6.30pm onwards till well beyond midnight on busy days at the restaurant. Despite the gruelling schedule, he is immensely grateful for the trust the D’Souzas have shown in him and for their constant support.
 
 “When he came to us four years ago, my husband and I felt he needed to attend school. So we admitted him and within two months he caught up with the others in class, proving my intuition correct,” said Cerolina. “He can study as much as he wants and I will always support him,” she went on to add, even as she rued that he could have fared better in the Class X examinations given his level of intelligence.
 
 Not one to stop short, Patro now wants to continue higher studies in the commerce stream in order to pursue his dreams of becoming a banker. Besides a story that would inspire many to dream and achieve, he has one suggestion for those aiming for better things in life — “Do not waste time watching television.”
 
 
