PUNE: The Muslim community feels that the government should have considered Supreme Court’s suggestion to abolish Haj subsidy in a phased manner till 2022.

 Minority affairs minister   on Tuesday confirmed withdrawal of Haj subsidy and said that the funds saved will be used for providing education to minorities, while projecting the move as an effort by the government to "empower minorities with dignity and without appeasement”.
 
 The minister also said a record number of 1.75 lakh   will undertake the pilgrimage this year from India despite the subsidy withdrawal.
 
 “The government should have scrapped the Haj subsidy in a phase-wise manner keeping in mind the apex court’s suggestion but it did not do so and instead took a call to scrap the subsidy in one stroke. The decision will cause hardship to Muslims. Late Prime Minister   had started subsidy for Haj pilgrims even though some Muslims were opposed to the idea of receiving subsidy,” Husain Dalwai, Rajya Sabha MP, said.
 
 Haji Ibrahim Shaikh, member of Maharashtra Wakf Board, said, “We welcome the announcement made by the government to abolish Haj subsidy, but the decision to abolish it has been taken by the SC and not by the Centre. No country gives subsidy to Haj pilgrims. Travelling charges to Jeddah to perform Haj will reduce if the government takes a call to invite global tenders for selling flight tickets.”
 
 Activist Salim Shaikh said, “The Centre has taken a hasty decision to abolish subsidy and they should have adhered to the SC ruling. The decision will inconvenience Muslims from poor economic background because they are solely depended on subsidy. The government has not chalked out a scheme to divert subsidy of Rs 700 crore for the welfare of Muslims. Funds reserved for various schemes have not been utilised. The government should release a plan and divert the subsidy and other funds for the community’s development.”
 
 Munaf Hakim, former chairman of Maharashtra Minorities Commission, said, “Abolishing subsidy will not affect pilgrims and they will continue to perform Haj. The community has not received subsidy after the BJP came to power. The government should take a call on improving facilities for pilgrims at Jeddah. The state/central government should release funds for the welfare of the community from the Moulana Azad   Corporation and Azad Foundation. The government should also take a call on handing over possession of Haj House to the Muslims.”
 
 Haji Zakir Shaikh, president of All India Quami Tanzeem Western Maharashtra, said, “Subsidy is beneficial to Muslims residing in rural areas. A community member spends Rs 2.5 lakh for Haj and gets 2,000 Riyals on reaching   if he/she is entitled to subsidy. Muslims who are rich spend Rs 4.5 lakh on Haj. Muslims in rural areas have been severely hit by the government’s decision and it has become difficult for them to perform Haj. The government has independent budget for imparting education to minority communities and there is no need to abolish subsidy to provide education to Muslims.”
 
 
