KOLKATA: Job prospect for more than a 50 applicants on compassionate ground was brightened after mayor   on Monday resumed duty at the   headquarters and signed all files relating to their appointment. These applications under death-in-harness job scheme had been pending due to mayor’s absence. He also signed 100 property tax files.

 Mayor was unwell for past three days and was at his Golpark residence. On Monday, he reached the civic headquarters at 12.30pm and worked in his chamber for an hour.Shortly after resuming his duty, Chatterjee asked for all urgent files, which were kept in his office for over a week and needed his signature.
  
  
 “We hope to mop up some revenue from the waiver applications, which the mayor has signed on Monday. We have already entered the last leg of revenue collection. Just 12 more days afre left to achieve Rs 900 crore revenue collection target from property tax,” a KMC assessment department official said.
 
 Among a wide range of pending files that Chatterjee chose to sign, including a file that sought proper use of funds for strengthening civic body’s vector control wing under the health department ahead of the monsoon. The civic body had received funds for an infrastructure development from the Centre under   (NUHM).
 
 According to a KMC official, funds available under NUHM could prove very crucial this year since the civic body’s health department will be facing a stiff challenge in prevention of dengue, the dreaded disease, which had created a scare in the city last year. One of the files that needed mayor’s intervention, include a prayer from   urging Chatterjee to take steps for replacement of Mookerjee’s bust at Keoratala crematoria, which was defaced by some people 12 days ago. Kolkata mayor did not forget to clear a file, which had come from the   and was pending for mayor’s approval.
 
 After signing these files and giving necessary instructions to employees at his office, Chatterjee discussed some civic policy matters with a section of senior KMC officials and left the headquarters at 1.30pm. “Despite illness I had to come to the office clear a backlog of important files. For a brief period, I was troubled by my personal and family related matters. But I always attach importance to my job as city’s mayor,” said the mayor.
 
