Chandigarh: Members of Akhil Bharatiya Vidyarthi Parishad created a ruckus at the PU lecture on, “The last battle of Gandhi” by haranguing the speaker, DU professor Apoorvanand over his views on Umar Khalid. Referring to an article Apoorvanand wrote for an English daily, they disrupted the discussion held at the sociology department on Wednesday asking how he could call Khalid his son. The heated arguments between the professors, audience and ABVP members took place towards the end of the discussion. 

 Around the end of the event at 4:30pm, Dinesh Chauhan of the ABVP asked the professor how he could call “an anti-national” like Umar Khalid his son. At this, Apoorvanand said there is no proof of him being an anti-national. But instead of a debate, ABVP members raised slogans of Bharat Mata ki Jai. An indignant Prof Apoorvanand said since the discussion appeared to be as good as over, ABVP members could kill him if they were feeling murderous enough. They retorted that they were not there for murder and did not want to make a hero of him. 
 
 “It was an interactive discussion and we were there to ask questions. We were just asking questions and nothing else and we did not go with the intention to harm anybody because it is our University. We just asked him when he can say Umar Khalid is his son, why can’t he say Hanuman Thappa is his son?” said Sourabh Kapoor, state secretary, ABVP, Punjab. 
 
 Latching on to Apoorvanand’s remark of Gandhi’s murder being planned in a room, ABVP members asked him where the conspiracy of Bhagat Singh’s killing was hatched. Police intervened but ABVP members said they wouldn’t indulge in violence and were just asking questions. The argument continued for around 25 minutes. 
 
 The episode has rankled University professors. “I have always believed that in a University, opinions may vary vastly but then opinions should be respected. It is one thing to say I don’t agree with you but it’s another thing to say I won’t let you speak and continuously interrupt you. I have taught one of these ABVP members, so I told him it was not what I had taught him. It is very unfortunate this has happened,” said Bhupinder Singh Brar, professor at PU’s political science department. 
 
 
