THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The motor vehicles department (MVD) was left red-faced after   (NHAI) did a U-turn on affixing   along the newly-developed four-lane stretch of the national highway from Walayar to Wadakkanchery. NHAI denied permission to   to install 39   detection cameras along the 54km stretch that was developed into a four-lane road.

 It was NHAI that had earlier requested MVD in 2015 to install cameras along the stretch, citing specific accident spots. On the basis of the guidelines from the   on traffic safety, MVD had decided to install modern cameras along the stretch. The department also initiated procedures for the installation and handed over the task to   when it received a letter from NHAI denying permission.
 
 "It is to be stated that already 10 traffic signals with timers have been installed along the stretch. Installation of surveillance cameras will further reduce the benefits of road users paying user fee. In the view of above, installation of surveillance cameras is not feasible at this stage," said a letter from NHAI project director L S Rajpurohit to state transport commissioner. The letter was written on January 8.
 
 But, NHAI's U-turn, which could end up as violation of the Supreme Court guidelines, has miffed MVD.
 
 "NHAI's abrupt change has adversely affected the transport department's strategy to reduce accidents in the wake of Supreme Court guidelines. Cameras have been found to be effective tools to control speeding, a major cause for accidents. We have decided to take up the matter with the higher-ups in NHAI and find a solution," said transport commissioner K Padmakumar.
 
 On August 13, 2015, the then project director of NHAI CT Abraham wrote to the transport commissioner seeking urgent steps to install cameras along the stretch on the basis of an inspection conducted by joint secretary of ministry of road transport and highways, Alkesh Kumar Sharma.
 
 Subsequently, NHAI again wrote to the transport commissioner on January 1, 2016, citing that frequent accidents were happening along the stretch at junctions like Erattakkulam, Swathi, Kuzhalmannam, Kannannur, Kanjikode and Pudussery.
 
 "The major reason for accidents at the junctions are speeding vehicles. They do not slow down though cautionary boards, showing speed limit, are installed at required intervals. Considering the grave situation, it is requested to give an immediate direction to your subordinate officers so that surveillance cameras are installed at the earliest," the letter had said.
 
 
