PUNE: The Anti-Narcotics Cell ( ) of the city police has intensified its drive against stalls, grocery shops and hookah parlours operating near educational institutions in the city after some of them were found selling  .

  
 The effectiveness of the action can be gauged from the fact that since January 1, this year, ANC has so far filed cases against 150 such premises. In 2017, the cell had filed the same number of complaints — 150 — during the entire year.
 
 Police have taken strong action against grocery shop owners who were found selling tobacco to students and others within 100 meter-radius of an educational institute. The action was carried out at Camp, Koregaon Park, Vimannagar, Kondhwa, Mundhwa, Deccan, Shivajinagar, Khadak, Vishrambaug, Swargate, Satara road, Pimpri, Chinchwad, Hinjewadi and Nigdi areas.
 
 ANC also urged local police stations to keep an eye on commercial establishments, especially grocery shops selling tobacco products near educational institutions.
 
 “We do not want school and college students to fall into the trap of smoking or chewing tobacco,” said inspector   of ANC.
 
 The Cigarettes and Other Tobacco Products (Prohibition of Advertisement and Regulation of Trade and Commerce, Production, Supply and Distribution) Act, 2003, prohibits sale and consumption of tobacco products near educational premises and public places.
 
 “Till March 7, we have carried out action against 150 establishments selling tobacco to people near educational premises,”   said. Out of the 150 establishments, 37 were found selling hookah to students or youths, Dorge said.
 
 In 2017, ANC has taken action against 81 hookah parlours. “Actually, it is a non-cognisable offence and an establishment just needs to pay a fine of Rs 200. Instead of accepting the fine on the spot, we are sending cases to courts,” Dorge said.
 
 “We have sent a proposal to the state government through state home department to make it a cognizable offence with stricter punishment. It is the only way to curb nuisance near institutions,” he said.
 
 The drive has been intensified this year to discourage sale of tobacco products such as cigarettes, raw tobacco and hookah to students, he said.
 
 
