NEW DELHI: For any   and their parents,   is a major concern when it comes to choosing a   — apart from availability of seats and eligibility, of course. Despite   mushrooming around  , the college-provided hostels remain the top pick. 

 
 
  
 
 Vanashree, a second-year student at Ramjas told TOI that having stayed in the “nosy and interruptive” environment of a private homestay in Kamla Nagar, the “liberal yet secure ambience of college hostel” has been the prime reason behind what she described as the best year of her life. The Ramjas Hostel, which houses both male and female students on different floors of its building, sustains a clean and conducive study environment while providing various facilities like a common room, movie nights on the in-house projector and a gym room, say students. 
 
 The warden and other hostel staff are most caring and dedicated towards the hostellers’ welfare. However, this kind of attention is not to everyone’s taste. Ankita, a first-year student staying at Ramjas Hostel, said that the headmistress-like presence of the matron solely in the girls’ hostel was “oppressive” and “really not necessary”. The boys’ hostels are taken care of by the warden alone and the same should be the case for the girls too, she said. This year, Hindu college will also open its girls’ hostel. The fully air-conditioned accommodation will have 154 rooms, a WiFi service and other facilities. The Aravali Hostel in South Campus is another popular option. Operating since 2005, it has 76 single rooms. 
 
 The admission season that starts in July sees students from different academic and social backgrounds applying for accommodation. Admission to hostels at   is strictly based on merit and top scorers alone are offered rooms at the residences. This system motivates university students to excel in academics, so they might be able to secure their seats in the inexpensive hostels. There are reserved seats for ST, SC, OBC, PWD and international candidates. 
 
 For students pursuing Masters, M. Phil and PhD, the university runs exclusive hostels on both campuses. Gwyer Hall, Jubilee Hall, Saramati Hostel and other university residences provide double- and single-seater rooms to meritorious students. 
 
 Jubilee Hall on North Campus takes pride in being the oldest boys’ hostel of DU. It’s the only boys’ hostel that has single-seater rooms, 200 of them in all. Chandan Kumar, president of the hostel’s union, told TOI that Jubilee Hall had an established alumni association that provided its residents with a strong industrial base. Gwyer Hall, another hostel that started many years ago, is a spacious residency for students, mostly post-graduates. With its digital library inaugurated a few months ago, the hostel has been improving its facilities. 
 
 Among the off-campus housing options, most private PGs are at the higher end, charging anywhere from Rs 22,000 to Rs 25,000. These PGs provide most luxuries a student could desire. From air-conditioned rooms and professionally equipped gyms to dedicated gaming areas and well-stocked vending machines, they have it all. The upper segment of these private PGs have swimming pools and even a Netflix subscription. 
 
 A student living here can avail of facilities like an open kitchen that dishes out sandwiches and noodles on order, along with dedicated juice and coffee machines.
 
 
