MUMBAI: A key witness in the   Shaikh police encounter case told a special trial court on Wednesday that  , an associate of Shaikh, was also killed in an encounter by the   and Rajasthan police while in judicial custody in a murder case.

 The Rajasthan-based witness, who was Prajapati’s lawyer in the 2004 gangster Hamid Lala murder case, told the court that these events had proved true the application about a threat to his life that was filed by Prajapati before the magistrate in Udaipur on February 2, 2006.
 
 
 It is the CBI’s case that after “gangster” Sohrabuddin was killed in an alleged fake encounter in November 2005, Prajapati, an eyewitness, was similarly killed a year later on December 26, 2006.
 
 The witness is among the 73 witnesses to depose in the case so far. While he did not deviate from his statement to the  , 50 others have been declared hostile by the prosecution so far for not supporting its case. The witness was ordered to
 
 be provided protection by the court after he expressed fears for his life earlier.
 
 In his statement to the court, the witness claimed that Prajapati had told him that while he was arrested by the Udaipur police on November 26, 2005 in the Hamid Lala murder case, he was shown arrested only three days later.
 
 
 Lawyer-witness denies any pressure from CBI
 
 The witness said that on December 11, 2005, after seeking permission from the judicial magistrate to consult with him in the murder case, Prajapati told him that Sohrabuddin was traced by the cops after obtaining his location details from him. The witness said that Prajapati told him that thereafter Sohrabuddin was killed in an encounter and also expressed his fears of being killed at the hands of Rajasthan, Gujarat, MP, UP and Maharashtra police. “He also told me that if he made any noting to the court, then his relatives would be arrested in false crimes. I assured him that I would try to save him by using the law,” the witness said. The witness also said on all the dates Prajapati was produced in court, he expressed his fears of being killed.
 
 The witness then told the court that Prajapati had submitted two applications before the magistrate. He said that in the application dated January 27, 2006, Prajapati iterated his fears expressed earlier. The second application, dated February 2, 2006, was handwritten and addressed to the sessions court. The witness said that he got this typed and addressed to the magistrate before whom Prajapati was being produced for his remand. “In that application it was mentioned that the Rajasthan police will take him into custody to produce him before the court and will show him as having escaped from custody and make a fake encounter of him and police guards will be put under suspension for four to five weeks,” he said.
 
 The witness further said that the magistrate heard the application on February 3, 2006 and passed an order not to subject Prajapati to any inhuman treatment. “I assured him that he will not be killed as the magistrate had also passed an order in his favour,” the witness said. The witness said that Prajapati later told him that after he moved an application court, his relative was booked in a false drugs case.
 
 The witness said that he was shocked to read the news of Prajapati’s encounter. When the witness submitted that Prajapati was killed as he was a very important witness in the Sohrabuddin fake encounter case, the judge questioned its admissibility and pointed out that this was not part of his statement given to the investigation agency..
 
 During his cross examination by the defence, the witness denied the suggestion that he was deposing falsely under the pressure of the CBI. “I am a criminal lawyer and I am not under anyone’s pressure,” he said.
 
