Well-known   personality   was recently in Lucknow to stage her play That’s Life!. Visiting the city for the third time, Sharon spoke to us about her experience in Lucknow, her love for musicals and her upcoming projects. "This was my third visit to Lucknow and I have nothing but praises for this city. It is beautiful. The people, hospitality, the culture, the food, I just love everything about Lucknow. The response that I received from the audience was overwhelming. Interestingly, the audience connected with me on an emotional level during the play," said Sharon, who is also a well-known pop singer, known for songs like Mere Jaisi Haseen from the movie Armaan, Jhoomo Jhoomo from Judge   and many more.
 While talking to us about the play That’s Life!, a musical depiction of her own life, Sharon told us why she staged her own life story. "Every bit of the play is true and it is a watered down version of my life. I thought it’s an interesting story. What I didn’t mention in the play was that when I was 16, I lost my voice. My parent didn’t have enough money for a surgery. My vocal chords got damaged and I was dumb for a year. But I’m a fighter, I won’t accept defeat in any form. That’s what I wanted to convey to people through my play."
 Sharon, who has been a part of several international musicals like Evita and Cabaret, among others, is trying her best to develop musical content in India. "We always perform musicals from outside like Godspell, Cabaret, etc. Musical genre doesn’t work much in India. It works abroad because it’s a huge business over there, it’s not a business in India yet. To make it a business in India I have to run it everyday, like we go to our jobs everyday, which is quite difficult over here. But who knows, one day a great story will come. I am looking at it, maybe one day I’ll be able to manifest it."
 Sharon has been working on her own productions lately. Telling us more about her ventures, she says, "There are two in-house productions that I’m working on, one is That’s Life! and the other one is Life, Love and other Madness. Both the plays have been written by me. I’m also looking forward to bring international acts in India this year."
 
 -- By Rahul Goreja
 
