AMBALA: Randhir Singh (40) of   village in   block of Ambala district was shot dead by a group on Sunday. Around 8.30am, Randhir was coming back in his car after dropping off his wife and children at a Radha Swami Satsang Bhawan in   village.

 “Randhir was on his way back home when he was chased by a car. The black colour vehicle also had black films on its windows. The attackers rammed into Randhir’s car from one side. They fired 7-8 shots without stepping out of their vehicle. Randhir died on the spot,” said Surender Kumar, sarpanch, Mahuwa Kheri village.
 
 In 2013, a murder took place in Mahuwa Kheri village, in which Gurdeep was killed. The victim was Randhir’s friend. Randhir was one of the main witnesses in the Gurdeep murder case, which is ongoing under trial in the court, said Ambala superintendent of police (SP) Abhishek Jorwal. The case was registered at Naraingarh police station.
 
 The parents of the deceased blame the police for negligence in this matter alleging that Randhir was receiving death threats from some accused in the 2013 murder case. Randhir also had complained to the Naraingarh police station in this matter after getting threat calls. Meanwhile, four our out of five accused in Gurdeep murder case were out on bail two months ago.
 
 After the incident, the parents and the villagers gathered and demanded action against the negligent police personnel. SP reached the spot and assured to act against the culprits at the earliest.
 
 While talking to TOI, SP Jorwal said, “We have identified the persons involved in this matter. We will soon arrest them. We suspect the role of some people, who live in nearby villages, in the case.”
 
 Naraingarh police station in charge sub-inspector (SI)   said on the complaint of Randhir’s parents, the police have registered a case against four-five accused under section 148 (Rioting, armed with deadly weapon), 149 (Every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence), 302 (Punishment for murder), and 303 (Punishment for murder by life convict) of Indian Penal Code. The SI confirmed Randhir was the main witness in the Gurdeep murder case of 2013. 
 
 
