Bhopal: Come 2019 and the city will boast of a railway station of international standards— the best in the country.   will offer almost all passenger amenities one gets at an international airport and perhaps more. There is a good part of the makeover- in-the-making. The railways won’t have to spend a single paisa on the superb station, which will see an expenditure of Rs 100 crore.

 Four parcels of land, measuring 13,000 Sq feet towards the east and west side of the station, are leased to the developer,   — for commercial use. 
 
 “Railways opted for PPP (private-public participation) model, because it didn’t have cash, but had enough landholding to monetise. They will lease out 13,000 sq ft of land to the developer for commercial use and the latter, in turn, would modernise passenger amenities at the railway station at the cost of Rs 100 crore,” said Abu Azmi, project in-charge for Bansals.
 
 And as the redevelopment of railway station goes on, some buildings in the existing station would be demolished. New ones will come up, existing foot over-bridge would be considerably widened, elevators and escalators would be installed. There will be provision for subways and ramps. AC VIP lounge, AC waiting and rest rooms, restaurants and eating joints from famous names in food and beverage category, will offer a wide range of dishes. All this will become a reality in now under-construction main station building. This will be complemented by remodelled parking, redone platforms and fully covered foot over-bridge (FOB). All this will transform the station beyond recognition. Arches in the façade will remain untouched, perhaps to remind us of what the station looked like. Already, 40% of the redevelopment work is complete.
 
 Enough thought is given to crowd control while factoring in passenger amenities. 
 
 During summer and holidays vacations, when passenger traffic is at its peak, footfall at   goes up to 35,000, triggering a chaos of sorts at the station. Aware of the congestion and chaos as most trains stop here for two minutes, dealing with it was among the priorities of railways when it contemplated the passenger amenities at Habibganj said an official of Indian Railways and Station Development Corporation (IRSDC), on condition of anonymity.
 
 One will surely be curious to know how the developer in consultation with the IRSDC proposes to achieve all this? To this, Azmi says,“By segregating crowd. Passengers coming to the station to catch a train will remain in the lounge, rest room, waiting room, restaurant or eating joints till announcement of train’s arrival. Breadth of foot over bridge (FOB), which connects the lobby with the five platforms, will be raised from existing five metres to 36 metres and beyond the fifth platform to rear building in the west to 15 metre from existing 5. Escalators and elevators will be there for passengers to take them to respective platforms. Besides, those alighting from trains at Bhopal will not go up to foot over bridge, but will go into subway through ramps and take an exit,” explained Azmi.
 
 Those associated with the new two-storeyed building on the eastern side entrance, say it will be a grand structure with all facilities we come across only at major airports. “The new building will be 40 metre X 60 metre and its height will be 36 metres. It will only have two storeys. AC VIP lounge, waiting and rest rooms, restaurants, counters of offices, eating joints, internet, TV – everything you expect at a major airport will be available at this building,” said Azmi, adding some buildings in the existing structure will have to be demolished to make room for this imposing building, which will add to the grandeur.
 
 Except for ticketing and train operations, everything else will be under control of the developer for first five years. The company developing the station will be responsible for housekeeping, electric, civil and mechanical maintenance of the platform for first five years beginning from the date of agreement signed between the company and the railways i.e. July 14, 2016. “The station is already under their control and would continue to be with them for next three years and then there will be rebidding for maintenance,” informed IRSDL officer in question.
 
 Though Azmi allayed fears that things at the railway station would become costlier manifold once his company has complete control over the station but steep hike in parking fee recently enforced by the company recently speaks a different story.
 
 --- 
 
 Cost of project: Rs 100 cr
 
 Deadline: Dec 31, 2018
 
 Main objective: 1. Segregation of crowd (foot over bridge for passengers arriving to catch the train, subways for those alighting train and exiting)
 
 2. Public amenities: AC VIP lounge, waiting & rest rooms, restaurants, eateries, escalators and elevators, broadening of food over bridge
 
 3. Why model station? : Expected to provide services of level 2 according to international railway manual
 
 4. Developing company: M/s Bansal Construction Ltd- acquiring gold rating from   (USGBC) for quality of construction and observing green norms
 
 5. Mode of contract: PPP (Public-private participation)
 
 * Developer spends Rs 100 crore for modernisation of Habibganj railway station in lieu of 13,000 Sq ft land railways land adjoining the station for commercial use on a lease of 45 years. 
 
 
