VIJAYAWADA: The   (VMC) has intensified its campaign to improve sanitation as teams from the Union government will inspecte the city for   Survekshan-2018, from Monday. The sanitation wing of VMC is working round the clock to ensure a top rank for the city in the Survekshan.

 The VMC, which started preparations for Swachh Survekshan-2018 from September 2017, has focused on beautifying the city. The civic body initially faced problems with open urination and defecation. It tried to overcome them by building community toilets in major areas.
 
 Officials focused on cleaning public urinals in the city and are imposing fines on citizens for open urination. The VMC has painted 10,000 metre of walls to prevent open urination. It deployed ‘Swachh Grahis’ at major urination points for inspections and deterring public from urinating in the open.
 
 The VMC also focused on garbage collection and dumping yard problem in the city. It started a campaign for segregation of garbage across the city. The civic body motivated citizens to segregate garbage at the source. Thus, it is able to collect segregated waste from colonies and send it to dumping yards.
 
 K Nagaraju, a resident of the  , said, “Segregated garbage collection is a great idea, and the VMC sanitation staff is collecting garbage on time every day. On-site composting pits arranged on streets are a great initiative of the VMC, and we all support it.” 
 
 Municipal commissioner J Nivas himself monitors the sanitation in the city, and conducts surprise inspections in the early morning. He has motivated sanitation workers to give maximum efforts to make the city clean. “We are working with a motive to achieve a place in the top 10 list of Swachh Survekshan this year. Our teams are working round the clock to clear piled garbage on streets. Teams from the Union government will inspect city for three days, and we are focusing on portraying Vijayawada as a beautiful city,” said chief medical & health officer in-charge, Babu Srinivas.
 
 The civic body, which is in fourth place in the country in addressing online grievances through   app, is aiming to continue this in overall rankings, he said.
 
 The horticulture wing of the civic body has developed green belts and parks in the city, along with greenery on road dividers to beautify the city. The VMC is focused on clearing the garbage on walking tracks of the ring road.
 
 
