PATNA: The stage is set for Patna University Students’ Union ( ) polls scheduled for Saturday. More than 19,500 students will exercise their franchise to elect five key office bearers and 23 executive members of the union.

 The polls, being held after a gap of more than five years, have evoked excitement and curiosity among the students most of whom will be participating in the electoral process for the first time.
 
 As many as 154 candidates are contesting for the posts of president, vice-president, general secretary, joint secretary and treasurer, besides 23 members of the executive committee from different colleges and faculties. 
 
 Polling will be held at 46 booths located in 14 different institutions under tight security arrangements. The district administration along with the PU authorities have done their home work well and deputed adequate police personnel on and around the campus to ensure the safety of the candidates as well as the electorate. Mobile patrolling has also been introduced, especially around the hostels.
 
 Voting will be held from 8am to 2pm. Students and polling personnel will be allowed to enter the polling booths only after showing their identity cards. Voters will not be allowed to carry cellphones with them at the booths. The university has arranged for videography at all the booths. CCTV cameras have also been installed at strategic points.
 
 Candidates or their authorized representatives will be allowed to be present at the polling booths as well as the counting centres. The ballot boxes will be sealed in presence of the candidates or their representatives. Counting of votes will start at 5pm at   examination hall. Election results are likely to be announced late Saturday night.
 
 There was some resentment and commotion among the candidates due to the confusion over change in their serial numbers in the ballot papers. PU proctor   said the serial number of some candidates was changed due to correction of name of one candidate. The problem was, however, sorted out amicably.
 
 The ballot papers will be sent to the booths at least two hours before the commencement of polling on Saturday. More than 200 police personnel will guard the polling and counter centres right from 8am till late night when the counting ends.
 
 Meanwhile, PU vice-chancellor accompanied by chief election officer P K Poddar, students’ welfare dean N K Jha and registrar   visited all the polling booths and counting centres to check the arrangements made.
 
 As many as 16 candidates are contesting for the post of president, while there are 14 candidates for vice-presidentship. The number of contestants for the post of general secretary is 12 and that for the post of secretary is 10. There are 12 contestants for the post of treasurer. Altogether 82 boys and girls are contesting for 23 posts of council membership.
 
 
