Mysuru: Although there was much talk of   replacing the use of   for marking voters’ finger in the upcoming assembly elections in the state, the possibility now appears highly unlikely.

 It was expected that the pens manufactured at the   ( ), a public sector unit owned by Karnataka government, would be used in the assembly elections, the chances of that happening now appear slim.
 
 For more than five decades, MVPL has been manufacturing indelible ink, which has been used in all elections across the country. While the marker pens have been tried in urban local body polls in Karnataka and Kerala, and successfully passed tests of the National Physical Laboratory of India, it seems as though   (ECI) is not willing to use them in the upcoming elections.
 
 ECI officials held a meeting with MPVL in November, but there has been no progress in this direction since. Marker pens, however, have not been used in assembly and Parliament elections yet.
 
 With the elections in the state around the corner, MPVL is making preparations for the elections. Among other arrangements, MPVL is procuring raw material for manufacture of indelible ink. MPVL authorities have ordered small vials used for storing indelible ink, which is subsequently supplied to ECI. The order for small vials from MPVL hints at the possibility of ECI opting for indelible ink for the elections.
 
 “We have received no intimation from the ECI, but we are getting ready as usual. We are currently in the process of procuring raw material. We had a meeting with ECI in November, and the subject of marker pens was not discussed. We are likely to meet again shortly to learn about the requirements for the assembly elections,” said Venkatesh.
 
 Pointing out that the dates of the elections in the state were yet to be announced, Venkatesh added, “There is still time to decide on whether or not they want to use marker pens. If, ECI opts for them, we are capable of meeting the requirement in the span of a month.”
 
 General manager (administration) of MPVL C Hara Kumar confirmed that marker pens were yet to be used in any assembly election.
 
 Deputy commissioner D Randeep, the district election officer, told STOI that there was no intimation yet from the ECI on the mode of marking voters in the upcoming elections.
 
 
