PATIALA: The newly elected   of the corporation has now decided to form a   committee that will not only look into the failure of the officials in collecting cow cess from the past two years but will also collect the imposed tax from various departments.

 Patiala municipal corporation (MC) has levied cow cess on over two dozen marriage palaces and various other departments falling under the MC and the total revenue could cross over Rs 1 crore per month if collected duly from all. 
 
 Deputy mayor Yoginder Singh Yogi in the first meeting of the House said street lights have become the need of the hour near a cow shelter in one of the localities with considerable Muslim population for the latter expressed concern over safety once it gets dark in face of the recent incidents of self acclaimed cow protectors becoming a threat in society to the Muslim community. The deputy mayor urged that the money collected from the cow cess can be spent over the construction of street lights.
 
 However, it came to light that very less amount of cow cess has been collected in the past two years despite the MC levying cow cess on various departments. The corporation officials claimed that since 2016 there was no cow cess collected from around 88 petrol pumps falling under the corporation.
 
 Newly elected mayor Sanjeev Sharma Bittu after discussing with the Patiala MC commissioner   had however ordered to form a committee soon over it. 
 
 “We have decided to form the cow cess committee that will not only collect the cow cess but would also inquire into the matter if the cow cess was collected but did not reach the PMC’s pocket. The departments that have not paid the cess will have to clear the dues immediately or be ready to face action. The marriage palaces falling under the MC will be seized in case they fails to clear their dues.”
 
 Meanwhile, in its first ever meeting the newly elected house, that comprise 59 Congress councillors and one SAD councillor, passed a total of 13 agendas with consensus.
 
 The House has agreed to hire 450 new cleanliness workers on contract basis whereas the proposal was to hire 300. However, the House has approved additional 100 cleanliness workers and 50 sewerage men. Earlier, 100 cleanliness workers were to be posted in   assembly segment, 100 in Patiala (rural), 25 to run the corporation trolleys, 75 for the cleanliness of the   and   Drain. 
 
 The House however reached a consensus on deciding to recruit 150 more cleanliness workers on the recommendation of municipal councillors. 
 
 The corporation has also agreed to hire a private agency for door-to-door garbage collection and ensure that the same is properly dumped. The House of new councillors also agreed to give property rights to the tenants on collector rights who have been sitting on corporation’s property since the past two decades.
 
  A total of 350 families, who have been fighting to get property rights on collector rates since long, will be benefitted from this.
 
 
