HYDERABAD:   to include more cities in the list of 'smart cities' by revising rules and regulations on Sunday. 

 Participating in the first edition of 'Deccan Dialogue', a conference on 'Economic Diplomacy for Development', experts drawn from different fields suggested that the existing rules on smart cities should be amended to include more cities under the 'smart cities' gambit.
 
 One of the sessions was 'Smart Cities and Sister City Agreement'. The experts felt that this is an important framework for economic cooperation through sister city agreement between provinces/city administrations of different countries. Many state governments have been proactive in tying up with provincial governments and local administrations of other countries. 
 
 About 50 Indian cities have signed sister-city agreements with local administrations of many developed countries. Sister-city cooperation assumes importance in the context of smart and sustainable cities. 
 
 The participants included BV Papa Rao, advisor, Policy & Institutional Development,   government, VK Yadav, general manager of   (SCR), Dr BVR Mohan Reddy, executive chairman, Cyient, and honorary Consul-General of Germany, Hyderabad, Andrew Fleming, deputy high commissioner, UK, and Lee Hai Kwang, from the Embassy of the Republic of Korea, Delhi.
 
 Papa Rao said "water, sanitation, transportation and electricity are major components of smart cities. The Centre should take an initiative and make certain changes in smart cities policies." 
 
 He said Telangana government had chosen   and Warangal instead of Hyderabad under the smart cities programme in view of the existing rules. The old city of Hyderabad does not proper drainage system.
 
 He said Telangana is the only state that supplies uninterrupted power to villages round the clock. It has also taken up the mission smart villages. Yadav said infrastructure should be created for smart cities. "Though we have multi-model transport system in the city it is not linked with state road transport buses. There is a need for integration of bus services with the train services for the benefit of passengers."
 
 Latest technology should be utilised to improve facilities for passengers.
 
 Papa Rao said water, sanitation, transportation and electricity are major components of smart cities. The Centre should take an initiative and make changes in smart cities policies." 
 
 
