MANGALURU: Dakshina Kannada district will set a trend this March by announcing PU I results online, as it is done for PU II results.

 In order to put up the results online, The Dakshina Kannada Pre University College Principal’s Association has introduced a software called ‘SUvidya’ – an online result-processing system, for all 199 PU colleges in the district. This is considered as a first-of-its-kind initiative in the state.
 
 
  
  
 
  “The aim of this software is to ensure that students receive transparent, clear and uniform results on the day they are announced. Earlier, when results were declared manually, it involved a lot of cumbersome work. This software will allow access of data of all students with just one click of the mouse,” said Vittal A, principal,  , Gorigudda. Vittal, who took the initiative to develop such a software, told TOI said that it was designed by Aculogics, a Shivamogga-based company.
 
 Explaining about the hurdles faced earlier, KK Upadhya, principal, SM Kushe PU College, said everyone had to collate results on ‘A3’-size paper earlier, which normal printers cannot print. “So after results are declared, the college authorities have to go to a nearby cyber cafe to take printouts, and there are chances of cafe owners making duplicate copies of the results from the USB drive, and to give it to students before the date. This destroyed the sacredness of examinations. Online declaring of results will also put a break on the unauthorized ‘withholding’ of results of some students, by citing non-payment of fees and other reasons. Once the result of a candidate is entered after all checks as per this system, it cannot be changed.” He stressed that there is no room for manipulation in this system.
 
 “Under this newly-introduced system, all colleges will have to use a common platform. Once the hall tickets are issued, the student data is locked and all the data is secured. To make any changes in the data, permission of the DDPU is necessary. After evaluation, the specific subject lecturer will have the right to enter marks of only his/her subject. The software will also provide result statistics on the basis of subject, category and sex,” he added.
 
 C Shikha, director, department of pre-university education (DPUE), launched the software at the   on Wednesday. 
 
 Once results are announced, students and parents can check it by sitting in their homes. The software is mobile-friendly.
 
 
