CHENNAI: At a time when educational institutions are capitalising on the growing demand for human resources personnel, the state’s pioneer in grooming students for these posts is stuck in a pre-liberalisation time warp. The Tamil Nadu Institute of Labour Studies, started by the government in the early 1970s to understand the pulse of a restive labour force, is struggling to stay buoyed with dated curriculum and faculty  .

 The institute, affiliated to  , offers undergraduate and PG courses in labour management, and two part-time diploma courses in labour administration and labour laws. Official data shows that of the 50 posts sanctioned by the labour and employment department, which controls the institute, only 21 are filled. The institute has only two regular faculty – an associate and an assistant professor – for a student strength of 320. It is required to have a professor, a research officer, two associate professors and four assistant professors, besides guest faculty. 
 
 The professor’s post has been lying vacant since 2010, while other posts haven’t been filled since 2008. 
 
 According to the institute’s brochure, the centre – located in Kamarajar Salai – was started in 1973 to promote healthy trade unionism, to develop good rapport between the labour force and managerial personnel, to develop skills of labour officers and to collaborate for research with educational and other institutions in India and abroad, especially the International Labour Organisation. Every year, the centre takes around 60 students for its undergraduate course, while 40 seats are allotted for the master’s programme. In addition, they get around 200 students a year for its part-time courses. R Balachandran, the institute director, also joint labour commissioner, said all the seats were filled every year, showing a stack of registers as proof. When asked about the faculty vacancies, he was reluctant to share information. “We have well-experienced regular faculties and at least 15 guest lecturers,” he said.
 
 What he didn’t show were the attendance registers of the guest lecturers. Students TOI spoke to say many of them hold classes based on their convenience. “We have gone for nearly a week with no classes at all because the lecturers were absent,” said Suresh*, a second-year student. Suresh, like most of his classmates at the institute, come from a lower socio-economic background. “We came with a lot of expectations,” said another second-year student. “The institute’s website says students will be placed in the HR department of top firms. But there’s hardly any teaching or training taking place here,” said a 21-year-old, who’s a first-generation graduate. 
 
 The state government sets aside Rs 1.60 crore every year as grant for meeting the administrative expenses. The government has also allotted three acres of land for constructing a new building to house the centre at a cost of Rs 18 crore. 
 
 Labour commissioner Ka Balachandran said the institute should not be compared with other academic institutions. “It was started for PG diploma in labour laws and we have been increasing seats gradually based on growing demand,” he said, responding to a query on faculty vacancy. When the question was raised a second time, he said the governing body will sort out the issue. “We will also have to redesignate the nomenclature (of faculty) in the service rules,” he said. Madras University vice-chancellor   said the institute had not intimated his office about the vacancies. “It is the responsibility of the labour department but it is definitely a cause of concern for us. The course is popular and we refer a lot of our students there,” said Duraisamy, adding that he would take up the issue with the higher education and labour secretaries. ( name changed)
 
 
