CHANDIGARH: Punjab jails minister   wants to appoint former Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) minister Adesh Partap Singh Kairon’s former senior assistant Raman Kumar Kochhar as his officer on special duty ( ).

 On October 2 last year, TOI reported how the previous SAD-BJP government and Punjab Public Service Commission inducted Kochhar in the Punjab Civil Services (PCS) , though he did not have a graduation degree. Kochhar’s selection is already under litigation in the Punjab and Haryana high court.
 
 Randhawa has sent a file note to chief secretary Karan Avtar Singh to appoint Kochhar as his OSD. A senior officer told TOI that there was no provision in rules for appointment of a PCS officer as an OSD to a minister. Kochhar is posted as assistant commissioner (general) in Gurdaspur. Randhawa is the legislator from Dera Baba Nanak assembly constituency in   district.
 
 In the previous SAD-BJP government, Kochhar worked as a senior assistant in the then Punjab food and civil supplies minister Kairon’s ministerial staff. He was appointed as a PCS officer in September 2016, during the fag end of the SAD-BJP government’s tenure.
 
 When contacted, Randhawa said Kochhar had submitted a request for being appointment as his OSD. “I have forwarded the note to the chief secretary. In case the chief secretary feels it is not possible, I don’t have a problem,” he said. “I know his appointment has been challenged in the high court, but its decision is awaited.”
 
 The minister said there was no rule that barred a staff member of a minister in the previous government to work with a minister in the next government. He claimed that Kochhar had worked with him for some time when he was parliamentary secretary for agriculture in the previous   government.
 
 The Punjab government’s legal remembrance and law secretary Vivek Puri has informed the state government that Kochhar cannot be appointed in the PCS (executive branch) as he did not have a graduation degree from a recognized university, “which is a condition precedent for such appointment”.
 
 Kochhar has submitted an MA (history) degree from Annamalai University, Tamil Nadu, which has been acquired through the distance-education route. 
 
 To top it all, Kochhar has, to date, failed to clear four departmental examinations since his appointment in 2016. According to the result declared earlier this month, of the total eight exams, Kochhar is yet to clear five — developmental law, revenue law, industrial and commercial law, local government law, and service and financial law. 
 
 According to Punjab Civil Services (Departmental Examination) Rules 2014, “all members of service shall qualify the examination within a period of one and a half year from the date of their appointment to the service. The members of the service shall be given only four chances”. 
 
 
