THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The officials of Thiruvananthapuram excise circle busted a gang during a drug deal that was happening in the parking area of a hotel in the city and seized   worth over Rs 1 crore, on Friday. 

 
 
 They also nabbed three persons, including the carrier, buyer and the middle-agent. Cash worth Rs 13 lakh, two cars, a motorcycle and the mobile phones of the accused too were confiscated. 
 
 The officials identified the accused as Vineesh Kumar (39) of Peechi in Thrissur, Anoop (28) of Veeranakavu near Kattakkada here and Ranees (39) of   in the city. Among them, Vineesh was the one who brought the consignment in a car. Anoop was a middle-agent and Ranees the buyer. Ranees is the partner of a prominent restaurant functioning at Kowdiar. All three of them are suspected to be linked with interstate drug mafia. 
 
 Excise circle inspector T Anikumar, who led the team that made the catch, said that the transaction took place in the parking area of a hotel at Mannanthala on Friday. The action was based on a tip off received by excise commissioner Rishi Raj Singh. 
 
 Even though Vineesh was the one who brought the drugs, he was just a carrier. The consignment actually belonged to someone else. A probe will be conducted to find out the original source. It is suspected that an Idukki-based gang was also involved in the racket. The hashish oil seized was stored in small packets that were hidden under the panels of the car in which Vineesh arrived. The money seized was brought by Ranees as advance payment for the contraband. 
 
 “Vineesh reached the city first and contacted Anoop. Then he waited at the parking area of the hotel for Anoop to arrive with Ranees,’’ the officer said adding that the excise team, which was already there, waited for them at strategic locations waiting for the transaction to take place before taking them into custody. 
 
 He also said that though the contraband seized was worth just over Rs 1 crore, when sold in international market, it could fetch them more than Rs 10 crore. 
 
 They will be produced before the court on Saturday. 
 
 
