THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: Within days of issuance of traffic police directive on the space allotted for private buses operating city services, tussle broke out between KSRTC staff and private bus drivers at   on the   on Monday.

 A group of KSRTC staff at the East Fort depot asked the staff of a private bus going towards  , parked near the North Bus stand, to shift the bus from the area. It led to altercation between the private bus staff and KSRTC officials. Later, the traffic police were informed and the bus was shifted from the area and KSRTC arranged another bus for the passengers.
 
 While the KSRTC officials demanded the private bus drivers to follow the order issued by the regional transport authority, private bus owners claim that when a case is pending before court, no other directive can be issued in this regard.
 
 RTA had issued a directive to regional transport officer last year that the private buses should be allotted another space at East Fort and only a three-minute halt should be provided for private buses.
 
 Following the RTA order, RTOA had recently allotted space for private buses at the backside of Lucia Hotel and near Pazhavangadi Ganapathy Temple at East Fort and put up signboard indicating the private bus stand.
 
 And a notice was issued by traffic police last week to private bus owners to follow the directive of RTA.
 
 “Private buses should not enter the KSRTC bus stand and should not be parked in front of North bus stand near Vetti Muricha Kotta in East Fort. We will report to RTA about any violation of the order and action will be taken by the RTA. Around eight traffic police officers have been deputed at East Fort,” said Anil Kumar, CI at Traffic police station (south).
 
 According to Mohammed Basheer, district transport officer at KSRTC city depot, majority of private buses halt at allotted space, but some of the private buses are still parked near the KSRTC bus stand resulting in traffic chaos at East Fort.
 
 However, the private bus owners said that the road belongs to PWD department and KSRTC cannot claim ownership. “We have records collected from the revenue department that the road belongs to the PWD and KSRTC cannot claim ownership on road. Also, no authority can issue a directive, when a case is pending in court in this regard. We have submitted the order from traffic police in the court. No passenger will board our buses, when much better facilities are available at KSRTC bus stand,” said Shaji C Thomas, coordinator of Kerala Bus Transport Association.
 
 
