Chandigarh: The dispute over cutting of the railings dividing   and Burail village, has resulted in a protest by two groups. While the villagers on one side of the railing are in favour of the open spots in the railings, the Sector 45 A residents are strict against it. 

 The residents of Burail village sat along the main road where the railings were removed to make way for pedestrians as a mark of protest. They claimed that the railings earlier forced the villagers to walk for long distances for their daily chores. Hence, as per them, the railing, which has now been removed by an anonymous person, has many advantages.
 
 Mandip Singh, a resident of Burail village, said, “We do not know, who broke the railings, but its has certainly helped us, as people had to first scale the railing to cross the road earlier.”
 
 As per the information, the grills were installed in 2017, while the orders for its installation were passed in the year 2012 itself. The railings worked as a divide between the Sector 45 A houses and the village.
 
 The villagers alleged that though entrance and exit points were specified in the orders, no space was left in between the railings to enable the villagers in crossing the road. They complained that the school students were amongst the most affected as while going to their respective schools everyday they are left with no choice but to scale the railings, in order to cross the road. The women folk too are faced with serious problems in crossing the road, it was added. The villagers have that they will sit along the roadside demanding that the entrance opened should not be closed again as it would cause them major inconvenience. Ankur Rana, a local resident in Burail said, “Not only school children, the senior citizens in the area, face problem every single day. At least the two entry and exit points should remain opened in the interest of the people.”
 
 Meanhwile, the residents of Sector 45 A, especially the ones living in the houses of Chandigarh Housing Board, are against the openings in the railings dividing the two areas as they are wary of any encroachments.
 
 General secretary of resident welfare association, Sector 45 A, Harbans Garg said, “After the railings were broken at two places on Monday late night, Sector 45 A residents are reeling under stress. There are high chances of encroachments and parking problems, which will create problem of space and lead to vehicular congestion too.”
 
 The residents of Sector 45 A said, “The railings were installed to bring respite to the residents from traffic jams and late night brawls in the colony. With two points of opening in the railings now, we will be faced with similar problems again.” The residents fear, that the open space might invite traffic to pour in the housing board area, which would disrupt with their peace and quiet. 
 
 
