Chandigarh: City biker   Singh Dhillon added another feather to his cap by finishing second in Round 2 of the MRF Mogrip National Super Cross Championship, held in Goa recently. Not to be content, Prithvi is gearing up for the third round of the championship slated to take place in Coimbatore in June.

 Prithvi, the only biker from North India at the event, emerged victorious in the SX2 Supercross category and finished third in the SX1 Supercross category to make it his second podium finish this year. He had finished third in the first round in Kochi, earlier this year.
 
 When TOI caught up with the biker, he sounded modest. “Hard work and some luck made it possible,” Prithvi said on his win. 
 
 He, however, expressed his disappointment over not being able to win the championship in Goa itself. “I am a little disappointed, I could have won the championship and got things done and dusted,” said Prithvi. “But overall, it’s a great feeling. I am now gearing up for the third round in Coimbatore. I hope to win the championship in Coimbatore.” 
 
 The start wasn’t good for Prithvi. He could somehow manage to cling onto the fourth spot at the first berm. But, by the end of the first lap, he jumped ahead to the second place. “For me, I see the jumps in the circuit as an opportunity to build a lead over others. Many bikers just ride over the jump, but I actually leap over it. This allows me to travel greater distances over jumps,” he reflected, when asked how he overshadowed the other competitors.
 
 Strong technique
 
 Prithvi has become a hugely popular name in the national biking circuit after several podium finishes in recent times. Still a teenager, Prithvi owes it to his coach Pramod Joshua. “He (Pramod Joshua) has helped me a lot. He is a legend when it comes to dirt biking. He was in Chandigarh in March, and he came to witness my practice sessions. After watching a couple of laps, he said I needed to work on my jumps,” said Prithvi.
 
 “I am concentrating on my jumps now, and I can feel a stark improvement in them. I believe I will have total control over them in a couple more months,” he added. Prithvi practises at the ridge in Sarangpur for the past three years.
 
 Father’s contribution
 
 Prithvi’s father, Jatinder Pal — a teacher in a government high school in Sarangpur — has spent his life earnings to get his son a Honda CRF 250, a Honda CR125, a Yamaha YZ 250F and now a Kawasakin KX250F. 
 
 For him, there is no compromise when it comes to helping his son chase his dreams. He did not hesitate to sell his car and also gave up all comforts to buy Prithvi the costliest of bikes. Jatinder Pal, who failed to live his dream of becoming a successful Motocross dirt racer is determined to make his son live his dream.
 
 “We have made a lot of sacrifices to help Prithvi follow his dream. The sport is very costly, but through him I am living something that was my ambition. Luckily now, we have got a sponsor, which is paying the entry fees for various tournaments and also the cost of fuel,” said Jatinder.
 
 “I always wanted to see my son winning laurels in the biking world. I failed to follow my aim to be a dirt biker because of lack of support. I want my son to fill the boots, which I was never able to wear. So far, he has lived up to my expectations and I hope he will move ahead with the same passion in the future.”
 
 He surely will.
 
 
