The holy month of   has begun. A time when the devout fast from pre-dawn to sunset. It is also when the city’s quaint areas — the bylanes off  ,   and the heart of   — come to life with mouth-watering foods. BT went to the most popular of these spots — the bustling and beautiful   gully. Head here by 7 pm to catch the buzz, sights and sounds that it is so known for. And take your appetites along. The brightly-lit lane has little stalls on either side dishing up rolls, kebabs, baida roti, rich   and  , chilled firnis and, of course, piping hot malpuas, drizzled with thick cream. Here’s more...
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 Right at the entrance of the lane is a little makeshift stall with a huge handi or cauldron of khichda. This is a specialty — made of delicious, slow-cooked meat and lentils and garnished with thin slices of garlic, birasta (fried onion), mint leaves, a pinch of salt and a squeeze of lemon. It’s said to infuse energy in those who are fasting to last through the day! You will also find a lighter and creamier version of the dish — the Hyderbadi ‘badaami’ haleem — here. 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 There are several finger foods to tuck into. Try the   (a fiery import from Andhra Pradesh), garam samosas, masala aloo, and more, with some naan.
 
 
 
 When you’re here, reserve your appetite for kebabs, kheema, boti, bheja fry and other skewered fare, hot off the sigdi and made on a large, iron tawa. These dishes must be had steaming hot, with dollops of tangy mint chutney, onion and mint leaves. 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 An unmissable part of your gastronomic trail is the   and it deserves special mention. It is essentially a large pancake-like sweet, made of egg, maida, sugar, saffron and milk. The round, sweet malpua is best had hot, straight from the kadhai, with a lavish dollop of thick cream or malai. Making it is also quite an art! First the eggs are beaten and charoli nuts, sugar and saffron are added to this. The malupa maker then swirls a generous portion into the smoking kadhai and deep fries it in ghee. If you want to have a small portion, ask for a single or then have the double and rabdi varieties. 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 You can’t leave here without a round or two of cold  . You can also end your repast with sandan — the steamed sweet that looks like an idli, soft shahi tukda, cold fruity milkshakes, black currant and dudhi halwa and the mithai-centred flaky phool khaja. 
 
 
 
 
