KOLARAS:   may never have won Kolaras assembly seat in Shivpuri, but BJP’s fortunes have always depended on how strong a candidate BSP fielded as it cut into   votes. Mayawati’s party is not contesting the February 24 bypoll, making it harder for the ruling  .

 Chief minister   knows that the path to a victory in Kolaras isn’t easy. So he is promising the near impossible — five years development in the next five months.
 
 On Saturday, Chouhan was addressing a public meeting in Indaar-Khatora villages, home of Congress candidate Mahendra Singh Yadav. “Think with your minds and hearts,” the CM said. “Why do we have elections in a democracy? It is to elect someone who can develop the area. In the last Lok Sabha and assembly elections, Kolaras lost out on development because it elected Congress MP and MLA. This election is only for five months because from the sixth month preparations will start for the assembly elections.”
 
 Hitting out at local MP Jyotiraditya Scindia, the CM said that as Union minister for industries in the UPA government, he gave no industry to the region. “So, who can develop this region in the next five months? Give these five months to a BJP legislator and we will give you development of five years,” Chouhan said, adding: “If you elect a Congress MLA, all he will do is abuse me for the next five months while a BJP MLA can get so much developmental work done that our party will reside in your hearts permanently.” 
 
 BJP had an upper hand in this assembly constituency till 2008 when it was an SC reserved seat and the party had a popular candidate in Om Prakash Khatik, who won in 1990, 1993 and 2003. BSP, too, nurtured the constituency because of the SC reserved status. However, in the 2008 delimitation, Kolaras was no longer a reserved seat.
 
 That year, BJP fielded ‘bidi’ factory owner Devendra Jain, who managed to retain Kolaras by a paper-thin margin of 238 votes over Congress’ Ram Singh Yadav. Jain secured 31,199 votes, Yadav 30,9661 votes and BSP’s Lakhan Singh Baghel got 19,912 votes. Five years later, Jain lost to Yadav by 24,953 votes. This was a major victory for Congress not just because it polled 73,942 votes to BJP’s 48,989, but also because the margin came despite BSP candidate Chandrabhan Singh Yadav getting 23,920 votes (15% vote share). 
 
 This time, too, BJP has reposed faith in Jain. But he is battling at two fronts. First, Congress candidate Mahendra Singh Yadav is the son of Ram Singh Yadav, whose death necessitated the bypoll. Second, BSP isn’t in the fray to cut into Congress votes. These are worrying signs for BJP if the Chitrakoot bypoll scoreline is any indication.
 
 In the Chitrakoot assembly bypoll held in November last year, BSP had stayed away from the fight. In 2013, Congress candidate Prem Singh won by a margin of 10,796 votes when BSP candidate secured 19.55% of the total votes. With BSP not contesting last year’s bypoll, Congress’ Neelangshu Chaturvedi defeated BJP’s Shankardayal Tripathi by 14,833 votes. Both parties agree that the increase in Congress’ victory margin was because of the absence of BSP. 
 
 
