PATNA: Bihar   officials are planning to purchase exotic Hanoverian horses for the   ( ) wing, especially for better performance in equestrian championships. Horses of Hanoverian breed are commonly known as German horses. 

 Sources said the MMP has no Hanoverian horse yet. Such horses are especially used in sports for their sturdiness and good height.
 
 Established during British period with its headquarters at   in Bhojpur in 1919, MMP is the oldest wing of the state police that would enter its centenary year in 2019.
 
 Sources said special efforts would be required to purchase Hanoverian horses as they are only bred by  . “We have information that other than Army, Hanoverian horses are with Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel National Police Academy (SVPNPA) in Hyderabad. The academy has been the winner of police equestrian championships for the last couple of years,” they said.
 
 A source said if purchased from Army, Hanoverian horses would cost maximum Rs2.5 lakh each, but it would cost up to Rs70-80 lakh if imported.
 
 A senior police official said at least 30 Hanoverian horses are to be purchased so that they could be especially used for different annual equestrian competitions held across the country. “MMP has altogether 101 horses, but they are either of Thoroughbred or country breed horses. Both these breeds are considered below the Hanoverian breed,” he said.
 
 He also said 54 new horses were purchased recently, but more than 40 of them were country breed. “They were purchased from Jaipur, which has a horse breeding centre and cost around Rs85 lakh to exchequer,” sources said. They said nine horses for at least Rs1.8 lakh each were purchased in 2013 but they were also of Thoroughbred breed.
 
 They said the sanctioned strength of   police MMP is 202 and aims to attain strength in next few years. “Horses have average lifespan of 25-30 years. Presently, around 14 horses with MMP are aged above 20 years while rest of them have average age of around 2.5 to three years,” sources said.
 
 Bihar police won a   medal in any equestrian championship after 25 years at the 36th All India Mounted Police Equestrian Championship and Mounted Police Duty Meet, 2017.
 
 They attempt to purchase horses with focus on sports as Bihar police has recently changed policy allowing appointment of 17 sub-inspectors (SI) and 100 constables via sports quota to encourage sports among policemen.
 
 
