BHOPAL: “For the first time in the country’s history,   have become captive puppets,” said Congress leader   on Wednesday while talking about why the Congress is failing to form government even after emerging as the largest party in assembly elections in some states. He made the remark in response to a question how in Meghalaya where the Congress emerged as the largest party, it was the NPP that formed the government with the BJP, which had just two legislators.

 “Are we living in a country where there is rule of majority or rule of defectors?” Surjewala asked. “The Constitution framers sought this to be a country ruled by the majority where the single largest party is invited to form government,” he said.
 
 Speaking to reporters at the state Congress office on Wednesday evening, he claimed that the manner in which power is being usurped with two MLAs is “dangerous” for the country. “People will lose faith in the democracy just like they have lost faith in the Prime Minister’s rhetoric,” he said.
 
 Five retired state government employees on Wednesday, who were part of the BJP’s organisation in Rewa, joined the Congress in the presence of Surjewala on Wednesday. Among them were four police officers, including a retired DSP and an additional SP. The fifth person, who joined the Congress, is a retired food officer, state Congress spokesman Ravi Saxena said.
 
 Launching a scathing attack on chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan Surjewala said, “Madhya Pradesh was known to be the country’s cultural capital. But under the BJP rule, it has become a haven for criminals and offenders. The entire government is dedicated to corruption. How can the chief minister of a state sleep when there are 4909 rapes per year and nearly 43% children are malnourished?”
 
 He said number of rapes stood at 2875 in 2004, which reached 4909 in 2016, according to the NCRB reports. “Abduction of women was at 584 in 2004. It increased 10 times to reach a figure of 4904 in 2016. Infant mortality is so high that 90,000 children cannot celebrate their first birthday. Only 28.6% of the 150762 schools have electricity,” the   said. He alleged that in the BJP regime, 15,283 farmers have committed suicide and when agrarians protest, they are fired upon and killed. 
 
 
