One of cricket's all-time greats and former captain of the West Indies team, Alvin   says he never misses the chance to visit India 'where cricket is religion'. Chief guest at a cricket tournament organised in UP's Pilibhit, he talks to TOI about  , 'Fire in Babylon' and comparisons between Lara and Chanderpaul. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 I do follow, to some extent. He (Kohli) looks like a very determined chap. Determination means you can make your own decisions. I don't think India would ever have a captain like that. Except perhaps  . Kapil used to take decisions on his own and he was an exciting cricketer. He used to make some decisions nobody thought could happen in cricket. Kohli now has brought a new brand of captaincy. (He's) somebody who says 'I will play with five batsmen or five bowlers' and sticks to that. Virat Kohli is not an orthodox.
 
 
 
 
 The attitude is strong in both. I am one person who wouldn't like to compare players. But Kohli's attitude is as ruthless as Viv's was. Kohli seems to have some of those qualities. He is a successful captain. As a batsman, he is a phenomenon. Always hungry. His consistency is tremendous. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 It's a question of time. You never know what happens in the game and you never know what happens tomorrow. He is quite fit. In fact, the India team now is very fit, considering the amount of the cricket they play. 
 
 
 
 
 I think a team's passion to play and win is the key. That sort of takes care of things. This team has that. In my era too there was a bunch of chaps hungry to win. Everybody eventually knows what his job is in the team and what he is expected to do. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 To play, you need sponsors and TV. But I believe there is room for all the different versions of the game. T20 is very entertaining. It brings in excitement. It brings in the crowds. And players are gaining from it. 
 
 
 
 
 We know that the world likes to see West Indians play cricket. We have our own brand of cricket. Back home, everyone wants to see them hit the peaks our cricketers scaled before. The winning streak has to come back. We have a dream that we will come back. 
 
 
 
 
 That part I will not like to get involved in. Everybody wants to get paid more. The amount of cricket that is being played now, careers are shorter, injuries are more. You never know what happens. 
 
 
 
 
 It just happened. Then the West Indian cricket team was very strong with exceptional bowlers. They were the most destructive force in world cricket at that time. 
 
 
 
 
 I don't look at who is Black or Indian. You play for the country. I am the last person to compare players. I don't like to compare players. Brian was a very, very great player. Shiv has his own style. He is an accumulator of runs. Brian Lara was dominating. You don't compare them. 
 
 
 
 
 I was not much involved in that. You don't regret what you do
 
 
 .
 
