HYDERABAD: Though National Investigation Agency (NIA) sleuths gave a graphic account of how a mason and a farmer from   planted bombs at the historic   in May 2007 in their chargesheet before a special court, the premier agency failed to provide evidence.

 Picking holes in the investigation, defence counsel said probe agencies could neither submit any documentary nor technical evidence to prove that Madhya Pradesh-based farmer Rajendhar Chowdhary and mason   were the bombers. 
  
 NIA investigators alleged that   and absconding accused Amith alias ‘Prince’ had conducted recce of the mosque to plant bombs for the first time in early 2007. The second and final recce was done by Rajendhar and Tejram a few weeks prior to the blast.
 
 After the final recce, the duo returned to Madhya Pradesh. On May 17, 2007, Rajendhar and Tejram along with two improvised explosive devices (IEDs) concealed in two bags were transported to Bhopal railway station from Indore by another absconding accused, Ramchandra Kalsangra alias Ramji in his Maruti van, NIA alleged.
 
 According to NIA, Rajendhar and Tejram travelled by train to Hyderabad in an unreserved compartment with two IEDs, planted them at the Mecca mosque on May 18, 2007 and escaped. Tejram kept the blue bag containing the IED near an iron grill along with bags of the faithful, who came for prayers, Rajendhar kept his bag containing the IED under the ‘takth’. The IED kept by Rajendhar exploded, killing nine persons and injuring 58 others, but the IED planted by Tejram did not explode. The unexploded IED, comprising RDX and TNT explosive packed in custom-made iron shells, was recovered by police later, the NIA said.
 
 NIA also alleged that absconding accused Ramji Kalsangra and Amith had assembled the IEDs with explosives and cell phones provided by other accused Devendra Gupta, Lokesh Sharma, Sandeep Dange at House Number 52, Sarva Sampann Nagar in Indore.
 
 However, NIA could not prove the allegations against the accused, leading to their acquittal. “The investigators alleged that Rajendhar and Tejram travelled from Indore to Hyderabad via Bhopal and visited a few places in the city like Central Bus Station (CBS), Charminar and a Sulabh Complex. There was no evidence to support the claims. No CCTV camera footage, no train or bus tickets and no witnesses. They did not even frame charges against Tejram,” defence counsel B   told TOI.
 
