PORVORIM: The directorate of women and child development has decided to introduce a helpline number 181 for women in distress. 

 Speaking at a function celebrating International Women’s Day at the   panchayat hall on Thursday, the department’s director   said the helpline will work 24 hours, providing assistance to women in a distressing situation.
 
 Women representatives of different village panchayats from   and   participated in the function. Around 15 women representing different panchayats from North and South Goa were felicitated with a shawl and memento by panchayats minister Mauvin Godinho.
 
 “Women play a very important role, and so to give them impetus we have introduced schemes such as Laadli Laxmi and   for their upliftment and betterment. A number of women have benefitted immensely from these schemes,” Godinho said. 
 
 He also said his department is planning to digitize all these schemes so that in the future women can readily access them. 
 
 Director of panchayats   said that reservations has been kept for women candidates in village panchayats and that in the 2017 panchayat elections, around 11 women were elected on unreserved seats.
 
 Praising the initiative taken by women in different fields of life, Godinho said that “if women don’t take initiative and go ahead in their lives, then nothing will move forward”.
 
 “Through their simple lives and involving themselves in cooking, looking after their children and doing daily chores, and some also moving outside the house to work, women have shown their strength and power,” he said.
 
 “I have noticed that if any programme, scheme needs to be taken forward and made a success, it is possible only with the participation of women,” Godinho said, adding, “Today, over 64 of the 191 panchayats have women sarpanchas. This shows the representation of women in panchayats in Goa is much better as compared to other states in India,” the minister said. 
 
 He also spoke about the importance of reservation for women in the assembly and Parliament in the near future if India has to make strides on the path to progress.
 
 
