Self-care vacations was one of the most searched phrases on the internet last year and the resolve doesn’t seem to have diminished in 2018 as well. Doctors have always prescribed ‘a break’ while dealing with cases of physical and mental maladies. But the new-age wellness holidays are literally ‘treatment vacations’. You are taking a break not to get away from a problem, you are taking one to meet it head on. From stress to sleep to digestive issues to cancer recovery, there are tailor-made vacations for all kinds of dilemmas. 

 The US and UK have resorts offering treatment packages designed specifically for those suffering with or recovering from cancer and may be experiencing the effects of chemotherapy or radiotherapy. There are Ayurveda-based retreats in India that work on your blood pressure and digestive ailments like IBS and amoebiasis. There are hypnotherapy sleep sessions and behaviour workshops for people complaining of sleep disorders and nature-friendly Scandinavian log house and cabin stays to promote the ethos of ‘slowing down’.
 
 
 Putting yourself first is a millennial phenomenon. And why not? As a result of the growing pollution levels and toxic food and water that we consume, a lot of people are taking annual self-care breaks. “I have been taking self-care vacations for four years now. For me, it is important to serve and service your body. It is much beyond going to a spa destination and just getting facial scrubs. I opted for centres that would cleanse the system. There, you follow a particular lifestyle for a fixed period, follow diets, stay away from gadgets and come back psychologically recharged,” says Gurugram-based homemaker Arti Chhabra. “We were asked to get our blood profile done, our eating history was examined and then a therapist assigned to us,” she adds. Chhabra has been to centres in Bengaluru and Dehradun where everything from one’s eating to sleeping habits are taken care of, vitals are noted at the time of checking in and at the time of check-out to know the progress one has made. Detox holidays mean serious business now. From arthritis and migraines, to post-pregnancy care, beauty and weight loss, it is all duly covered at these centres.
 
 
 
 The whole farm-to-table concept has made nutrition-friendly holidays a favourite. Guests can discover the best diet for their body type and constitution and adapt to clean, fresh-off-the-farm lifestyle. Travellers are also keen in exploring natural healing powers of hot springs and Vinotherapy (soaking in a bath of wine) for its anti-aging properties. Vinotherapy is popular in South Africa and Tuscany (Italy). According to Manmeet Ahluwalia, marketing head of a leading travel firm, “Health vacations are picking up among Indians, mostly amongst professionals within the age group of 35-55. The goal is to nourish and detox the mind, body and soul by the end of the vacation. Various wellness destinations today have exclusive programmes led by trained practitioners. Just enroll for a personalised package and tweak your mind and body accordingly for the duration of the vacation. Destinations like Haridwar, Rishikesh, Coimbatore and Kovalam are hotspots for health vacations.”
 
 "Weight loss, diabetes management, mental health, postural corrections, detoxification are the things guests are looking for on health breaks. We do therapeutic treatments such as acupuncture, ayurveda panchakarma, diagnostic tests, food intolerance test and more. Restorative physiotherapy which helps in improving strength and body movement is something really sought-after on health vacations."- Nikhil Kapur, MD, leading wellness retreat
 
 
