MEERUT: A year after   experienced inter-caste clashes over Maharana Pratap’s birth anniversary celebrations, tension prevailed once again in the district as Dalit organization Bhim Army’s district president’s brother   (25) was allegedly shot dead metres away from Maharana Pratap Bhawan, where members of the Rajput community were celebrating the birth anniversary of the king.

 While the Saharanpur administration said that Sachin was shot dead from close range, and the incident was being probed, his family says he was shot dead in a conspiracy. There are reports that during the celebrations weapons were being showcased freely.
 
 Saharanpur senior superintendent of police (SSP) Babloo Kumar said, “Sachin was shot dead from close range. We are investigating the matter at present.”
 
 Robin Gautam, a relative of the family said, “Sachin was walking down a lane nearby when he was shot dead on Wednesday morning.”
 
 Heavy police has been deployed in the region because the death occurred on   and on the first anniversary of the 2017 Dalit-police clash in the city that saw more than 20 vehicles torched and several people injured.
 
 Kamal Walia, district president of   and brother of Sachin said, “We had already conveyed our apprehension to the administration that something untoward might happen in the Maharana Pratap anniversary celebrations and had even submitted a memorandum to the district magistrate. Yet they gave permission to the upper castes to go on with the celebrations. My fear has come true. Thakurs have killed my brother.”
 
 Sachin held the position of media in-charge for the Dalit outfit. After being hit by a bullet near the neck, he was taken to a nearby hospital but could not be revived.
 
 Meanwhile, a video shared online shows some people allegedly washing bloodstains at the scene of the shooting. Additional director-general (ADG) of Meerut zone Prabhat Kumar said, “It’s too early to arrive at any conclusion. We have also heard about some people cleaning evidence in the form of bloodstains. We are looking into it. Adequate security measures are in place.”
 
