MANDYA/MYSURU: The   directive to Karnataka release at least 2 tmcft of Cauvery water to Tamil Nadu has come as a huge shock to the people of the region. While farmers, whose crops are withering due to summer heat, are a worried lot, politicians, who are facing the election heat, are anxious over the turn of events that could have an adverse impact on their poll prospects. 

 Since the past few weeks, farmers of the region had been urging the irrigation authorities to release Cauvery water from the KRS dam to the canals as their crops were drying up under the scorching sun. Now the SC directive to Karnataka to release water to the neighbouring state has pushed them into further distress.
 
 As on Thursday,   reservoir stood at 72.46ft against the maximum level of 124.8ft. The reservoir has been receiving a meagre 115 cusecs inflow while 936 cusecs of water is being let into the river. The storage in the reservoir on Thursday was 7.83 tmcft which is below the dead storage level.
 
 Now the irrigation authorities are in a fix over complying the Apex Court’s order. Senior officers claimed that releasing 2 tmcft of water from KRS reservoir is not possible because virtually there is no storage. “If we are forced to release from the reservoir, we will have to pump the dead storage water into the river,” a senior officer of the Cauvery Neeravari Nigam Ltd (CNNL) said.
 
 Karnataka Rajya Raita Sangha (KRRS) announced that it will launch a fierce protest if the state releases water to Tamil Nadu. Veteran politician G Madegowda, who has been spearheading the Cauvery agitation since decades, warned the state government of serious consequences if it complied with the SC order. “Our farmers are fighting for Cauvery water to save their crops. How can the irrigation authorities release water to Tamil Nadu when they are denying the water to us? We will launch an agitation if the state government agrees to release water to Tamil Nadu,” Madegowda told TOI.
 
 In Mysuru, president of the   Kurubur Shanthakumar warned that if the state government agrees to release Cauvery water to Tamil Nadu, farmers will boycott the assembly polls and stand guard at the KRS dam to prevent release of water. Shanthakumar, who was speaking at a farmers’ awareness campaign ahead of the state elections said, “Karnataka is facing drought and farmers are in deep distress. There is no question of releasing water to the neighbouring state. We demand the Supreme Court to review its order.”
 
 Political parties and poll candidates, who are busy in campaigning, are anxious about the development. A political party candidate said it is a very difficult and tricky situation as taking any stand on the emotive and sensitive Cauvery issue could prove costly for the candidates in the elections.
 
 
