NEW DELHI: Three women—all of them sisters— were   for   of   from   and putting those up in  . They would charge visitors a few thousand rupees for indulging in sex-chats online. 

 Police said a case was registered after a woman came forward to complain that her photo had been illegally used. 
 
 The complainant said she had been contacted by unknown people on social media, asking for her contact number. A case of sexual harassment was registered by Rani Bagh police station. 
 
 DCP (northwest) Aslam Khan said a team led by ACP Raja Banthia was formed to track down one of the men who had contacted the victim, and it was found that the man had transferred some money to a bank account following which he was forwarded the photograph of the woman and a link to her social media profile. 
 
 Police traced the bank account to Faizabad and also tracked down the parents of the   who were farmers. 
 
 During investigation, police found that the women had created fake profiles on various platforms and shared a phone number, inviting men for chat. “They would ask for anything between 500 and 5000. Payment was made through PayTM or online transfers to bank accounts,” said a police officer.
 
 “We have booked them under sections of the IT Act and outraging the modesty of a woman, and are probing further to find out their associations,” said DCP Khan. 
 
 During interrogation, the women, aged between 23 and 28, told the police that they were sisters and had come to Delhi for studies. All of them completed their graduation but dropped out while pursuing a professional course. They were introduced to the chat rooms by a friend after which they started using it to earn. Police found Rs 11 lakh in their account. Recently, they had gone on a trip to Bangkok using some of the money.
 
 “While chatting on WhatsApp, they would first share a partial image of a woman and demand money for the full photo. Money would be transferred through a wallet or directly to their bank account. Sometimes they would block a person; at other times, they would keep chatting with them. When they asked for a photograph, they would select one from a random Facebook profile and post it to them,” said a police officer.
 
 Probe revealed that the sisters had been into this for the past five years and had trapped more than 5,000 people this way. 
 
 They had lied to their family members that they were working in multinational companies. To cover-up their lies, they would also send some of their earnings to their parents. 
 
 
