THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The blog by director general of prisons and correctional services   triggered a wider debate on the   conducted as part of  , but it was not enough to stop the ritual. 

 The child rights commission, which registered a suo moto case against the ritual, didn't take any step to stop the ritual this year after the government also closed ranks behind the temple trust and the ritual. 
 
 The Chooralkuthu ritual was held as usual on the Pongala Day on Friday night. At the time of filing of this report, as many as 983 children were being prepared for the ritual, which involves piercing of a silver hook below the ribs of the children. 
 
 The kids would accompany the procession carrying the idol of Attukal Devi to   after the midnight of the Pongala Day. They will accompany the procession back on Saturday morning and the silver hook will be detached only after the return trip. 
 
 Sreelekha remained unfazed on the criticism against her over the Kuthiyottam comment. She reiterated her stand on the ritual in her latest Facebook post. In the post published on Friday, she said she wrote the blog because she was worried about the children. It is not an issue about religion or caste and it is not like piercing of ear or circumcision, she said. 
 
 Sreelekha alleged that children participating in the ritual were facing various health issues and said that one child was admitted to a private hospital for seizure. In a first, though she was in Thiruvananthapuram, Sreelekha did not go to the temple but offered Pongala at her home.
 
 Lekshmy Rajeev, who wrote 'Attukal Amma: Goddess of Millions', alleged in her Facebook post that children from underprivileged families were hired by the rich for Kuthiyottam offering similar to Choral Muriyal, practised at  , ignoring high court and child rights commission directives. 
 
 She wrote that the house owner of the place, where she went to take rest during Pongala told her that his son participated in the ritual and that such rituals were important. However, when she asked the boy, he said another child participated in the ritual instead of him after taking money. Rajeev refused to reveal the identity of the family. 
 
 The child rights panel too did not attempt any documentation of the Kuthiyottam ritual, despite taking a suo motu case. Commission chairperson   said the commission was not a fact-finding team. 
 
 
