GHAZIABAD: The parents and the brother of a 15-year-old girl found dead in a sugarcane field in   on New Year's Day have been arrested for murdering her, allegedly over an affair she had with a 25-year-old man. 

 Police said the Madhubala's family had objected to the relationship and her mother had dressed up the crime scene to make it look like the girl had been raped and murdered. It was the girl's own family members who strangled her before dumping her body in a field, a police officer said.
 
 
 The girl's father Nanak Chand, mother Maya (both in their late 40s) and elder brother Praveen (22), all residents of Jato Ki Madiya village, worked as daily labourers. Madhubala helped them out. Madhubala, police claimed, was in a relationship with Pawan, a resident of Hamirpur, who worked in the sugarcane fields. The girl's family claimed to have tried to dissuade her from the relationship but she resisted their attempts.
 
 Arvind Kumar Maurya, SP (rural), said, "The family first strangulated the girl using a rope and then hit her on the head with a stick. They later dumped her body in a nearby field and called the police, alleging rape and murder. An FIR under Section 302 (murder, IPC) was registered on the father's complaint. But the girl's parents and brother were incoherent in their statements. During investigation, we came across Praveen's friend Geetam, who spilled the beans. Geetam had been told about the murder by the girl's brother himself."
 
 Maurya added, "On the morning of January 1, police found the body of the girl in the field. The girl's family had all the while alleged rape and murder (the body barely had clothes on when it was found). However, the post-mortem report did not suggest any sort of sexual assault, and the cause of death was found to be strangulation. The investigation revealed the girl's mother had dressed up the crime scene in an attempt to divert the police's attention."
 
 The officer said police had found Praveen's slippers just 50-60 metres from the field where Madhubala was found dead. The cops also recovered the rope, stick and a plastic sack allegedly used in the crime. 
 
 
