Nagpur: In perhaps the first rescue operation done in the country without using tranquillizers or cages, the state forest department helped a tiger escape from a water-filled canal straight into its habitat on Wednesday. Only a few red carpets and a ladder was used in the operation.

 The tiger, ‘Jaichand’, had slipped into the right bank canal (RBC) of the Gosikhurd dam around 1pm. The canal is just 200 metres from the Umred Karhandla Wildlife Sanctuary, about 60 kms from Nagpur, and 5 kms from the dam. ‘Jaichand’ is the dominant male of the sanctuary and an offspring of the iconic Jai which is feared dead.
 
 Some farmers spotted the tiger struggling in water and alerted the foresters. The rescue operation was launched at 1.30pm and ended in two hours.
 
 ‘Jaichand’ couldn’t get a foothold on the slippery wall of the canal. “I thought of providing it a grip will help it climb up. A dozen carpets and a ladder was brought and placed on the wall,” said Paoni RFO Dada Raut.
 
 The carpets were folded like a long rope and placed in a straight line near the tiger. “It failed a couple of times but finally managed to climb up and within seconds vanished into the sanctuary,” said Raut.
 
 Gosikhurd project deputy engineer Prakash Vaishnav said he closed the ‘crass’ regulator after a request from the forest officials. It helped reduce the water level in the canal. “The canal is 4.3-metres deep and at the time of the incident the water level was at 1.9 metres,” he said.
 
 The 99km RBC mostly passes through forest areas and is directly connected to the dam at Paoni. 
 
 Honorary wildlife warden Roheet Karu says there have been around 50 incidents in the last 3 years where wild animals like chitals, sambars, bisons and wild boars have been rescued from the canal.
 
 The incidents are occurring frequently as no wildlife crossings have been constructed over the canals despite a state-level committee recommending mitigation measures. On November 24, 2011, tigress Kala had got stuck in a Gosikhurd sub-canal in Bhiwapur, not very far from Wednesday’s spot.
 
 State wildlife board member Kishor Rithe had raised the issue of mitigation measures over canals in Bhandara and Chandrapur districts in the board meeting on June 7, 2012. Taking note of it, the state formed a committee on June 23, 2014 under the then Pench field director MS Reddy in which irrigation officials, NGOs Poonam Dhanwatey and Bandu Dhotre were members. 
 
 Dhanwatey said the panel had already submitted its recommendations. It included wild passes through 42 crossings over 2.19 kms. The length provided by existing structures, which were to serve as passes, was 11.39km.
 
 Dhotre says the irrigation department is responsible for the mess as it has not taken any mitigation measures. “This is despite wildlife crossings being agreed upon by the irrigation department. In June 2015 a tiger had died in Gosikhurd canal in Bramhapuri due to lack of mitigation,” he said.
 
 “The Gosikhurd dam bisects Umred-Karhandla sanctuary and the Bramhapuri forest division,” said wildlife biologist Milind Pariwakam.
 
 “If such unplanned development continues then we will lose gene pool and viability of our tiger populations. The tiger numbers may increase due to better protection but their existence will be threatened,” said Prafulla Bhamburkar of Wildlife Trust of India (WTI).
 
 
