Ludhiana: For ensuring cleanliness in the locality, the residents’ welfare association (RWA) of Vikas Nagar has started encouraging the pet-owners for scooping the poop of their pets and disposing it off to a designated place. To solve this purpose, the residents have installed boards in the locality, so that people should adopt the practice to clear the excreta of their pets, mainly dogs, which is quite common in foreign countries.

 The boards have been displayed at six different locations including parks in the locality, and six more will be installed at different places. The problem is prevalent in almost every residential area. One of the executive members of the RWA Pardeep Dhall said, “We do not have any issues, if people keep pets in their houses. But at the same time, it is necessary to keep the compound clean. The problem is more severe with educated people.” He said it was their RWA which had introduced the concept of CCTV cameras first time in the colony, which was then followed by other RWAs. Now, they have started this campaign and are hoping to become successful, he added.
 
 Another member of RWA Ramkrishan Saluja said people bring their pets in the morning or at night and make them excrete in front of other people’ houses or even parks. He said people abroad are having the habit to clean their pet’s excreta and pet lovers here need to adapt the same practice.
 
 Meanwhile, Rajat Sood, also a member of the association, said already there are so many stray dogs in the area. “We cannot do anything about the stray dogs. But, people should at least understand the need to keep their surroundings clean by cleaning it after their pet dogs relive themselves.”
 
 The senior veterinary officer of MC Dr Y P Singh said, “We conduct so many drives to maintain cleanliness. But the staff here is limited and this is the reason we are helpless to take action.” He said people should also understand their responsibility.
 
 MC challaned 1 last year
 
 The MC also has a provision to issue challan to an owner, in case he takes a dog out for relieving in residential area. But, they hardly bother to do the same. Last year, MC officials had issued a challan to a resident of Pratap Nagar, after receiving a complaint from other residents. Moreover, MC did not finalise the animal bylaws according to which the registration of pet dogs with department was made mandatory.
 
 
