Actor   is known more for his roles as a villain in films like 'Bandit Queen', 'Prem Granth', 'Virasat' and 'Sarfarosh'. An endearing person in real life, we caught up with the actor while he was shooting in the city for a film, earlier in the month. The 67-year-old spirited actor talked about his love for the city, his Bollywood journey so far, and how filmy villains are shown as heroes these days.
A regular visitor to the city, mostly for film shoots in the past few years, Namdev has a lot of memories associated with Lucknow. And the most significant is of his first visit here in 1984. “One memory of the city which I can never forget is when I came here in 1984 for the first time to act in my   (NSD) repertoire play 'Tughlaq'. Several great artists and intellectuals had come to watch the play and I remember they had given a standing ovation to that play.” Telling us about what attracts him to the city, Namdev shares, “There is a lot of positivity in Lucknow which motivates me to do something creative and I think I have acted better in films that I’ve shot for in Lucknow. Yahaan aakar ek sukoon milta hai jo main hamesha dhoondhta hoon. Aur shayad isiliye main apna ek adhura natak bhi yahan likh raha hoon. And then the people here, bahut seedhe aur saral log hain yahan par. Kisi bhi shehar ka character wahan ke logon se nirdhaarit hota hai, isiliye mujhe Lucknow baar-baar aana acchha lagta hai. Yahan ka andaz-e-bayan bahut acchha hai. Lucknow keeps calling me back and this is my fourth film in the city.”
 
  
  Govind Namdev at Eco Park, Alambagh Lucknow (BCCL/ Farhan Ahmad Siddiqui)
 
 
 Mostly known for playing negative roles on the big screen, the Satya actor says that people’s perceptions of film actors and their characters have changed a lot over the years. “Earlier, the public was not aware of how films were made. If an actor played a villain on screen, people thought he or she was the same in real life too. Take for example   saab, he did several villainous roles and with such conviction, that his public image was like ki yeh bahut khatarnaak aadmi hai, isse thoda dur hi rehna chahiye. Similarly, many other actors like Ajit, KN Singh, Amjad Khan, Amrish Puri, Ranjeet, portrayed a negative role to their perfection. But today, bachcha-bachcha jaanta hai ki film kaise banti hai, ki yeh actors hain and yeh characters portray kar rahe hain. And not only in cities, people in the villages also know all about cinema, so ab woh hate waali baat nahi hai. Today, if they like your performance in a negative role, an actor becomes people’s favourite. And sometimes they even say, ki bhai hero se acchha toh humara villain hai.”
 Having worked in both the mediums (cinema and TV), the 'Sarfarosh' actor talks about the shortcomings of TV, “Work in TV is regular and it gives you immense popularity and you are recognized in the remotest village. But having said that, it is for a short term only. Jab tak apka serial chal raha hai, tab tak aap logon ke dil mein hain agar apne accha kaam kiya hai, toh. Jaise hi serial khatam hua, aap bhi khatam ho jaate hain. Actors are so overexposed in serials, that they get typecast. As far as Bollywood is concerned, my journey till now has been very satisfying for me. I am happy and I believe the way people love me and the way the industry is giving me respect by offering me various kind of roles, it is more than enough for me. I don’t want anything more.” 
 
 
 Abhishek.Shukla2@timesgroup.com
 
 
