 Day, which falls on the sixth day (13th February) of the 
  Week, is perhaps that most awaited-day for couples. On this popular day, partners get the perfect opportunity to express their love and affection in the most romantic way because a kiss can speak a thousand words. However, mastering the art of kissing is not an easy thing, especially, if you are a first-time kisser. There will be so many questions haunting your mind regarding this seemingly easy task. We agree that it takes a lot of practice to plant a perfect kiss.

 
 
 
 Like we said, kissing is an art that needs practice and patience to master. If you are a first-time kisser, we can feel your pain and struggle to get it right, but to do that first you need to understand that kissing is more than just a mere pucker. Make sure that the person you are planning to kiss on this important day is aware of your intentions.
 
 
  
  
 
 First, you should drop hints that you want to kiss the person. The best way to do that is by approaching the person and making eye contact. Just let him or her know through your body language that you want to get close. Also, don’t forget to shower your honest compliments. You can tell him or her how beautiful the day is and remind the person subtly that this day is celebrated as  . We are sure, dropping this hint is enough to let the person have an idea about what is going to happen next. If the person reciprocates, it’s time to make the next move.
 
 
 
 
 
 If you are in a place that offers very limited privacy, you can drop a soft kiss on your partner’s hand. Wait for his or her reaction. If you get a positive response, you can always seek their permission directly to plant a kiss on the  . So, with due approval you should get ready to pucker up, but not before you make the right preparation.
 
  
  
 
 There are a few things a person should remember before kissing—avoid bad breath and getting too rough. No one likes to kiss a person who has bad breath. It’s always advisable to use a mouthwash or chew a piece of flavoured gum to freshen your breath. Also, make sure that you have soft lips. Apply a lip balm (that that applies to boys as well) to avoid chapped lips. When the much-awaited moment arrives, make sure that you know what you are doing. Hold your   in a warm embrace and lock eyes. Pucker your lips and draw him or her softly towards you. Close your eyes and plant a soft kiss on the lips!
 
 
 
 
 After mastering the art of kissing, it’s always good to know a few more techniques to upgrade your skill. Besides the small peck on the cheeks and lips, there are so many ways to plant a kiss. Here are three types of kisses that every person should know if he or she wants to take their kissing game to the next level.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 This is a very romantic gesture. Interestingly, this kiss doesn’t involve your lips. When two noses rub against each other affectionately, it’s called an Eskimo kiss. It is believed that the concept of Eskimo kiss was started by people who lived in extreme cold climate because if you lock your lips under such conditions, there is always the risk of the lips getting stuck. So people used to rub their nose in a gesture equal to kissing.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 When two partners get so close to each other while kissing that their eyelashes touch and flutter. And when the eyelashes meet, it looks like the wings of a butterfly. This is a very intimate and romantic gesture that connects two hearts. 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 French kiss is perhaps the most popular kiss among lovers. This is the kind of kiss that you go for when you know that you are ready to take your kissing experience to the next level because French kiss involves a lot of tongue action. This is one of most passionate lip locks shared by lovers.
 
 
