NAGPUR: After the   and Academic Council polls, now all   outfits are eyeing the key posts in the  , the principal decision making body. With NU administration declaring the poll schedule, the outfits have started efforts to garner maximum seats to assert their superiority on the university cabinet, NU officials said.

 The schedule announced by registrar Puran Meshram, the retuning officer for the elections, set the deadline for filing nominations as February 14, while first list would be out three days later, after the scrutiny. The actual polls would be held on February 28 while counting and results would be announced the same day. It would be the first meeting of the Senate as per new ‘Maharashtra Public Universities Act, 2016’, after the much-awaited elections conducted after six years.
 
 As per the new Act, the policymaking body would have 24 members, including eight from Senate and two from the Academic Council. Of these, two candidates each would be elected from the principals, teachers, managements representatives and registered graduates. One seat from all these categories is reserved for backward classes. In November, the Maharashtra cabinet had taken a decision to fill up reserved category posts through draw of lots, which was later cleared by the assembly, but is pending in the council. Later, the government came out with an ordinance to fill up those posts.
 
 Last Monday, a meeting was convened to finalize the lots by vice chancellor SP Kane. It was attended by pro-VC Pramod Yeole and registrar Puran Meshram. As per draw, the teacher’s post went to OBC category and accordingly, NUTA’s Nitin Kongre got the ticket to the highest body. Similarly, principal’s post went to VJ/NT and hence Chandansingh Rotele was automatically elected. Like them, Sudhir Fulzele also gained direct entry without any voting in the MC.
 
 All these three had no competition from their categories and therefore gained straight entry into the MC. The last two candidates were in the centre of controversy, as every outfit was claiming them as their candidate. Both are yet to end the suspense and reveal which panel they support.
 
 Officials added that all political outfits have started making strategies to fight the four open seats of MC. It would be interesting to see whether newly forged Jumbo alliance would contest these polls together to fight the might of Shikshan Manch and ABVP combine, or go ahead individually. Fissures have already appeared with Secular Panel members revolting against the   (YTA), and Vidyapeeth Vidyarthi Sangram Parishad (VVSP). Even Senate Parivartan Panel (SPP) would be eyeing at least one seat after their unexpected success in the graduates constituency polls.
 
 
