CHENNAI: A gang of burglars on Tuesday broke into a jewellery outlet in  , through a grille door on the terrace of the building, and made away with 10kg of gold worth 3 crore and 5 lakh in cash . 

 The heist at AKS Jewellery near Anna Nagar was reminiscent of the daring theft at a jewellery outlet in   of 1 crore in gold and cash by thieves from Rajasthan last November. 
 
 Investigators said the burglars on Tuesday climbed the terrace of an adjacent three-storey building to access the jewellery outlet.
 
 "The burglars broke open a grille door with a lock and an iron chain," a police officer said. "They used a ladder to get to the gold showroom on the ground floor."
 
 He said the culprits appeared to be professionals: they left with a hard drive with surveillance footage from the outlet. The jewellery outlet is in a line of at least five jewellery shops on Second Avenue, Thirumangalam, Anna Nagar West.
 
 The proprietor,  , discovered the theft when he arrived to open the outlet at 10am on Tuesday. He entered the shop, to find boxes broken open and 10kg of gold jewellery and 5 lakh missing and informed the Thirumangalam police. 
 
 "Forensics experts dusted for fingerprints and recovered a few that are yrt to be identified," the officer said. "A police dog could not pick up a trail."
 
 Investigators said the gang struck after 12.30am, when Ayyappan left after ensuring that the security camera in the shop was streaming live images to his cellphone.
 
 "Ayyappan and his brother Sivasankaran, residents of Thangam Colony, Thirumangalam, own the outlet," the officer said. "Ayyappan took the space on rent three years ago. I-T sleuths searched the outlet last month on complaints of tax evasion." 
 
 Ayyappan had left the key to the safe in the shop, making things easier for the burglars. "Ayyappan's friend   passed by the shop early in the morning but did not notice anything amiss because the gang entered via the terrace," the officer said. 
 
 The Kolathur heist probe led to the death of Maduravoyal inspector, S Periyapandian, 48, shot when a police team stormed the suspects' hideout in Rajasthan's Pali district on December 13. Key suspect   and his aides are now in custody.
 
 
