BENGALURU: Strongly pulling up the government over frequent and untimely transfer of officials, especially panchayat development officers (PDOs), the high court on Thursday noted that an analysis of the exercise would reflect lawlessness and total failure of the administration.

 “Lawlessness is writ large on these transfers. In every transfer, you violate your own guidelines. If a review of these transfers is made, it will show there is no semblance of law along with failure of administration,” a division bench headed by acting chief justice H G Ramesh observed during the hearing of a transfer issue pertaining to two PDOs.
 
 Noting that ‘good governance’ would mean adhering to the rules in such matters, the bench expressed concern over the increasing incidence of litigation pertaining to transfer of PDOs wasting the high court’s precious time and leading to a situation where the court had to act as a parallel administration.
 
 When the government advocate sought more time to seek instructions, the court strongly observed that in 99 % of the instances, time is sought citing reasons like elections and assembly sessions. The bench asked the government advocate to get ‘express’ instructions from the chief secretary by the next date of hearing on whether the administration has stopped these kind of transfers.
 
 
 
 
 In a relief for former deputy chief minister R Ashoka and co-accused B  , the court stayed investigation and further proceedings in the FIR registered against them by the   ( ) in a bagar-hukum land scam case.
 
 The interim order will be in force till March 31 and the final hearing on the main petition is scheduled for March 5.
 
 Justice R B   passed the order after all the parties agreed to co-operate with the early disposal of petitions.
 
 Ashoka has claimed the case was registered for political reasons, with an eye on the impending assembly elections. Citing inordinate delay in filing of the complaint, he also contended a   investigation is already pending on the same issue.
 
