Chennai: In an attempt to encourage tuberculosis patients to avail of services at government-run hospitals through the treatment period, the health department will transfer Rs 500 (per month) to their bank accounts, chief minister Edappadi K Palaniswami said on Saturday.

 Flagging off a series of events at his camp office on Greenways Road to mark International Tuberculosis Day, he said, “As of now ,people below poverty level are given Rs 1,000 from the state government. The Rs 500 will be a direct transfer to the patients’ account so that they have high nutritious food for the six or 18-month treatment period.”
 
 India accounts for one-fourth of the global   burden. In 2015, an estimated 28 lakh cases were detected, while 4.8 lakh people died due to TB. In Tamil Nadu, while 82,989 cases were reported in the public sector in 2017, there were just 20,000 cases reported from the private sector. “There is a gross under-reporting from the private sector, but we are hoping things will improve as rules have been tightened for doctors to report every TB case,” said health secretary J Radhakrishnan. In 2017, after the Centre made TB reporting mandatory, the number has improved.
 
 A recent study by Christian Medical College, Vellore, showed that patients chose to visit private healthcare facilities for TB treatment before enrolling for free treatment at state-run hospitals, including primary health centres. This has led to a delay in starting treatment, key in preventing complications and spread of TB, it said. It also increased out-of-pocket expenses for the patients by nearly 17 times.
 
 In an attempt to improve diagnosis, the state will also move towards active diagnosis. The state will send two vans across all districts of the state. “Each of these vans will travel to 16 districts. They will travel across each district for a week, testing people for the disease and initiate them into treatment,” said Tamil Nadu State AIDS Control Society project director K Senthil Raj. 
 
 The van will also showcase the CB-NAAT – a diagnosis that will not only confirm presence of TB bacteria but will also show if the person has resistance to the antibiotic rifampicin. “This will help us start the right course of treatment at an early stage and decrease chances of spread of drug resistant TB,” he said.
 
 While this will provide basic data on TB, the state is also planning to equip grassroots workers such as TB treatment supervisors across the state with tablets. These staff will carry the device to patients’ home, monitor treatment outcomes and report if they are not strictly adhering to the drug regimen.
 
 
