MUMBAI: Two volunteer   dived right into the largest marine litter at the   to clean it up.

 The divers on Friday dived into the Versova Beach when the mangrove cell facilitated them for joining the beach clean campaign ahead of the World International Day. 
 
 The divers went into the sea with advocate Afroz Shah, a Versova resident who started the cleanup movement in October 2015 as an initiative which the   Chief   has dubbed as the “world’s largest” and “most inspiring.”
 
 The divers came back from the deep with plastic bottles and other plastic debris floating in the dark. They will be going back in again on Saturday.
 
 Additional principal chief conservator of forests, N Vasudevan, told the Times Of India in an exclusive chat on Saturday that the divers who had been trained were eager to participate in the cleanup when they heard about it. 
  
  
 
 
 “We had trained 20 youth as scuba divers as part of UNFP project at Sindhudurg implemented by state mangrove cell and MTDC had co-partnered. As part of the training they had to remove ghost nets left behind by fishermen. They have removed 2 lakh square meters ghost nets which have saved marine life. Now they are quite committed to the cause of environmental safety,” he said. 
 
 They are self-employed as diving guides but have also formed themselves into an association to remove abandoned fishing nets. “Abandoned nets are a serious problem along the coasts,” said Vasudevan, adding “In Sindhudurg, since over a year when the training was given in a subsidised manner, the incidence of abandoning fishing nets has, however, reduced.” 
  
  
 
 
 Meanwhile, on Sunday, the official launch of the programme for World Environment Day for which India is the host this year will be launched at Versova Beach by the UN Environment chief Solheim among with Union environment minister Harshavardan, environment minister in  .
 
 Political leaders including Aditya Thackeray, Sanjay Nirupam and Bharati Lavekar as well as Hafekar, IG, Commander Western Region, Coast Guard, Kiran Achrekar and Prashant Gaikwad civic officials, along with Maharashtra Chief Minister Devendra Fadnavis, Afroz Shah and thousands of volunteers will participate in the event. 
 
 
