RANCHI: Speaker   on Tuesday took a tough stance against the opposition and suspended most of them en-masse for wearing black masks within house. Calling the action 'derogatory' in parliamentary democracy Oraon initially asked the leader of opposition to bring the house to order by directing the opposition MLAs to remove their masks. 

 When his repeated requests went unheard, based on the recommendation of parliamentary affairs minister Saryu Rai, Oraon announced suspension of the MLAs wearing black masks. A motion in this regard was adopted and passed through voice vote minutes before the chief minister tabled the annual budget for FY 2018-19. Though the four MLAs including leader of opposition  , JMM MLAs Stephen Marandi, Simon Marandi and Joba Manjhi were not wearing masks they staged a walk out in support of the suspended MLAs.
 
 Talking to TOI, speaker said that opposition had not allowed the house to function in the past four days and the highhandedness was continuing even on the day government was tabling its annual budget. "Ignoring the oppositions act would have set a bad precedence so action was taken for the day in consultation with the house," he said.
 
 It is not the first time when MLAs in Jharkhand have been suspended. During fourth Jharkhand assembly only few MLAs were suspended when they sprayed foam and threw papers to protest the Chotanagpur Tenancy (CNT) and   (SPT) Amendments bill tabled by the ruling party during winter session of 2016. Oraon said that opposition has every right to protest and raise issues but they should not violate the business conduct rules. 
 
 The house started functioning almost normally on Tuesday morning though usual question hour could not be convened. Chief whip of the ruling party,   raised the matter of allowing reservation in Preliminary Test (PT) conducted for selection of civil servants by the Jharkhand public service commission. Citing excerpts of the case being heard by the apex court he said that reservation norms should be followed even in case of PT, a demand that was otherwise being raised by the opposition. Participating in the discussion Hemant Soren handed over a bunch of papers to the speaker to draw his attention to the appointments made in water resources department where most of the junior engineers are allegedly from other states.
 
 The opposition leaders suddenly got agitated when speaker turned down business adjournment motion moved by Amit Mahto of JMM for a debate on fake encounters in state. He pulled up a black mask on his face the moment special debate on the issue was refused by speaker. Following suit opposition started raising slogans against the government for ignoring opposition voice. 
 
 Adding fuel to the fire Kishore pointed to one of the answers given by education department to BJP MLA Anant Ojha in which the department had guided the MLA not to ask such questions. Opposition joined the chorus in criticising the minister of education department and most of the members sported a black mask to lodge silent protest. 
 
 Ministers Amar Bauri and   accused the opposition of hooliganism following which heated arguments started and on proposal of Parliamentary affairs minister speaker announced suspension of all protesting MLAs who had sported black masks.
 
 
