GAYA: Magadh University would soon be framing fresh regulations for appointment of principals as 28 out of 44 constituent units of the university do not have a regular principal and uncertainty haunts 12 other principals as the   would soon decide on the legality of their appointments.

 According to university sources, under the new regulation, teachers above 60 years of age would automatically become ineligible for applying for the post. This is likely to result ineligibility of 70% of nearly 1200 teachers working in the 44 constituent colleges.
 
 Besides, more than 50% teachers would fall in ‘over age’ category and another 20% will fail to meet the criteria of work experience. It is also not clear if the 128 teachers appointed in 2003 would be eligible or not as the appointments were conditional and vigilance inquiry continues to drag the matter.
 
 Conceding that most colleges were running without regular principals,   VC Qamar Ahsan said fresh recruitments would be made in the light of Patna high court’s order. The  , it may be recalled, through a circular issued in November 2016, changed the character of the post of principal converting it from a cadre post into a tenure post for a fixed tenure of five years.
 
 MU VC said new regulations would be framed soon, though he refused to give any deadline for the same. Sources however, claimed that the regulations would be in place in a few weeks, probably by the end of this month.
 
 Asked about the fate of the 12 principals facing an uncertain future, the VC said the matter was pending before the apex court. “The SC order will be honestly implemented,” the VC said.
 
 In the absence of regular principals, the 28 constituent units of MU are headed by senior most teachers of respective colleges. Sources claimed that as most of the senior teachers are on the verge of retirement, a new person takes charge every now and then which affects both administrative as well as academic discipline. A professor in charge of Gaya College, Gaya, had to relinquish office within a week of his taking over charge.
 
 
