Ghaziabad: A 53-year-old man who boarded a shared   on   in Ghaziabad on Thursday was allegedly robbed by the other passengers and thrown off the vehicle in neighbouring Hapur district. 

 The victim, Gajendra Singh, had boarded the Alto car from   around 9 am.
 
 According to Singh’s family members, he was travelling from Noida to Dhampur in UP. 
 
 Singh had spent the past three days in the house of his daughter and son-in-law, who are both software engineers, in Kendriya Vihar, Sector 82 of Noida.
 
 Singh’s son-in-law Rajiv Kumar (30) told TOI that the car occupants looted him of Rs 12,500 cash and a mobile phone. They also forced him to withdraw Rs 25,000 from an ATM in Dhaulana in Hapur.
 
 “We had booked an Ola cab for him at 8.30 am in which he travelled till Dasna. He was waiting for a bus to Dhampur when a man began chatting with him at the halt saying he too would go to Dhampur. A few minutes later a white Alto pulled up near them. The driver said he could drop anyone wanting to travel towards Dhampur against a fare. My father-in-law and the other man got inside. There was another man already seated in the navigator’s seat apart from the driver. A few kilometers ahead, they asked my father-in-law to hand over his cash, mobile phone and debit card. They forcibly withdrew more cash at an ATM using his debit card. They took him around in the car for a long time before letting him go,” Kumar said.
 
 The men allegedly forced Singh to get down from the car near RKD School in Pilakhuwa before fleeing. 
 
 Singh called the police control room thereafter after borrowing a mobile phone from a passerby.
 
 Singh was brought back to Noida by Rajiv and his wife who reached Hapur after being informed by police.
 
 “The last four digits of the car’s registration plate is 2615. Its driver had also taken a ticket from the Dasna toll plaza on the way out from Ghaziabad,” said Kumar.
 
 Police said CCTV footage at Dasna toll plaza will be examined to gather more details. “We have received a written complaint from the family. It is unlikely a case will be registered in Ghaziabad because the victim had boarded the car on NH-24 out of his own free will. However, a team has been sent to Pilakhuwa to investigate,” said Masuri SHO Satendra Singh.
 
 
