NAGPUR: This World Wildlife Day (March 3) calls for a re-think on present measures being taken to protect tigers. A recent global survey states that only 13% of the protected areas (PAs) are able to meet the global standards. Of the over 112 surveyed areas in 11 countries including India, one-third are found to be at severe risk of losing their wildcats.

 The survey, in which 11 conservation organizations and governments engaged in tiger conservation efforts participated, indicates that most of the sites which are at a risk of   are in  . 
 
 According to it, two-thirds of the surveyed areas had strong management but measures like enforcement against poaching, engaging local communities and managing conflict between people and wildlife remained weak for all areas. “Ineffective management of tiger conservation areas is leading to tiger extinction. Long-term investment in tiger conservation areas is absolutely essential,” SP Yadav, assistant secretary general of Global Tiger Forum.
 
 Reacting to the survey, experts stated that threats to the country’s tiger population have changed with time. According to wildlife conservationist  , linear projects are the biggest threat. “This includes everything — right from transmission lines, roads, highways and canals. Apart from this, projects like four-laning of roads become a big barrier as they restrict tiger movement. This is leading to inbreeding depression which is very dangerous,” added Rithe.
 
 Based on the Conservation Assured Tiger Standards (CATS), the survey findings further point out that despite poaching being one of the major threats faced by tigers, 85 per cent of the areas did not have staff capacity for patrolling. “Around 61 per cent of the areas in Southeast Asia have very limited anti-poaching enforcement,” the survey report states. 
 
 On this,  , Central India director of  , said that not just tigers but poaching of prey species is also a threat to survival of tigers. “Serious issues like crop damage by herbivores and man-animal conflict are yet to be addressed in many areas,” he added.
 
 Forests being under biotic pressure is also an area of concern, said Desai. “For long-term protection of tiger habitats, this pressure needs to be reduced. To meet this challenge, village relocation should be the government’s priority,” he added. 
 
 
