CHANDIGARH: At the time when Haryana chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar is flag-bearer of the campaign, Mhara Gaon Jamag Gaon that aims to improve electricity supply and bill collection in villages, his own ancestral village has not paid electricity bills for last 20 years.

 Village Nindana in Rohtak district has electricity dues of Rs 17.97 crore till December 31, 2017 and these have piled up in the last two decades. CM Khattar holds the charge of Haryana’s power department.
 
 As all kind of schemes have failed to impress locals in Nindana, the Uttar Haryana Bijli Vitran Nigam (UHBVN) is mulling to introduce another carrot-and-stick scheme to recover dues of Rs 17.97 crore.
 
 The village, which is home to over 7,500 eligible voters, has two panchayats —   and  .
 
 Besides being the ancestral village of CM Khattar, the village was adopted by Union commerce and industry minister   after he was elected to the Rajya Sabha from Haryana, for development as ‘Adarsh Gram’ under the “Saansad Adarsh Gram Yojana.”
 
 “This is not the one village, there are three villages in Mehem sub-division of the Rohtak district where electricity dues run into crores of rupees. Highest default amount for electricity arrears has been identified in the Titoli village, where residents owe the electricity firm Rs 34 crore. Next is Madina village, where arrears are Rs 20 crore and the Nindana village is the third on the list,’’ said  , executive engineer in Rohtak sub-division number 1 of the UHBVN.
 
 The electricity department officials frequently visit these villages and give them information about the Mhara Gaon Jamag Gaon campaign.
 
 In Haryana’s Rohtak division, the electricity department had arrears of Rs 341 crore in rural belt and in the government departments that also have failed to clear their electricity dues.
 
 According to petitions filed before Haryana Electricity Regulatory Commission for revision of arrears in 2017-18, the UHBVN had projected a revenue gap of Rs 3,898 crore. The gap is due to non-payment of electricity dues by consumers in the current and last financial year, besides widespread theft of electricity.
 
 The Chief Minister’s Office was inaccessible and cellphone texts on the outstanding dues, sent to them and the UHBVN CMD remained unanswered.
 
 
