KOLKATA: If   shone bright in some prime stretches because of the Fifa Under-17 World Cup, some more roads are set to be lit up in the   season.

 “After the Fifa U-17, the book fair is perhaps the best thing happening in Salt Lake. If the Fifa had roads around the stadium illuminated, the book fair will be attending to the basics — lighting the darkest stretches of the township,” said Salt Lake mayor Sabyasachi Dutta.
 
 Ahead of the book fair, the 2km stretch between JK Saha bridge, along Karunamoyee, till City Centre will finally get streetlights. This is also the road through which the Metro viaduct is passing. “Ever since Kolkata Metro Rail Corporation (KMRC) took up construction for the East-West project around six years ago, the entire stretch has been shrouded in darkness,” an executive engineer of Bidhannagar Municipal Corporation said.
 
 “Around 50 LED bulbs with fixtures of indigenous make are now being installed along what used to be known as the ‘unlit Metro corridor’ of Salt Lake,” he added.
 
 Salt Lake residents, especially those living in CD, CE, DD, DE and DF blocks, have been campaigning for more illumination in the area. “The section between Jalasampad Bhavan and Karunamoyee used to be without any working streetlights. I can see the lights being installed now,” said Akash Sinha, a resident of DF Block. Municipal officers said the streetlights were being planted after making the Karunamoyee crossing and the pavement along the Central Park fair ground encroachment-free.
 
 “All this time, the pavements on both sides of this stretch on Third Avenue used to be occupied. Now that the pavements are free, the street-lighting project is under way,” the official said.
 
 The road remaking and street lighting is part of the Rs 2.58 crore beautification project ahead of the book fair.
 
 “The luminosity is needed in this part of Salt Lake since visitors from all over Kolkata, and even from the districts, throng the book fair,” said West Bengal Heritage Commission chairman Shuvaprasanna, who is also a Salt Lake resident.
 
 He agreed that the stretch with the overhead Metro viaduct that casts a shadow and covers most of the road in darkness, even during daytime, has already started looking better.
 
 Times View
 
 Big-ticket events usually lead to improved infrastructure. Salt Lake is lucky that it has got not one but two such events in quick succession: the U-17 FIFA World Cup last year and the annual book fair now. The focus should now be on maintaining what we have got.
 
