PATNA: It is that time of the year again when students, who will take the board exams this time, are under immense pressure. With only two months to go for classes X and XII exams, the students need to focus on their studies and stay fit.

 According to health experts, proper diet, exercise, meditation and good sleep help students concentrate on studies. They advise pupils not to change sleeping pattern suddenly and relax before going to sleep.
 
 “Students generally visit us with stress-related issues like headache, insomnia, heart palpitations and nausea. Towards the end of the exam period, some suffer from exhaustion as well. It is important to eat healthy food like green vegetables, fresh fruits and dry fruits,” general physician Dr Hussain Ahmad of Nalanda Medical College and Hospital said on Wednesday.
 
 The doctor also advised students to sleep for at least six hours a day and plan the study schedule with a 15-minute break after every hour. “While some study in the morning hours, there are many who study at night. Parents should let kids decide when and for how long they want to study,” Dr Hussian told this reporter.
 
 Another city-based physician, Dr Himanshu Kumar suggested giving heavier meals during the day and a light supper. He said, “It is better to serve protein-rich food items to children at short intervals throughout the day. Never make them eat a heavy dinner as it is difficult to digest.”
 
 Dr Himanshu also asked parents to motivate and appreciate children and not burden them with their expectations. According to him, “A little guidance from parents and teachers can help students score well in examinations as it boosts their confidence level.”
 
 Dietitians advise students to avoid junk food as it tends to slow down the metabolism. “Instead of watching TV during study breaks, children should play outdoor games. Meditation, yoga, exercise or even walking can help reduce mental stress,” dietitian Dr Sanjay Kumar said and added, “Do not skip meals due to exam stress and avoid fatty food. Keep yourself hydrated throughout the day.”
 
 
