NEW DELHI: After again failing today to have approved for discussion a 
  in the  , some Opposition parties charged the AIADMK with deliberate disruption of the House even as the government said it was ready for discussions on any issue.
 
 
 Like last Friday, the Telugu Desam Party ( ) and the YSR   Party (YSRCP) couldn't table their no-confidence motion as disruptions made Speaker Sumitra Mahajan adjourn the House until Tuesday. If and when it is allowed, the motion would have been the first of its kind against this administration. 
 
 "The Opposition is ready for discussion on the no-confidence motion but it seems the AIADMK is acting at the behest of the Central government and not letting the house function," said Ramgopal Yadav, Samajwadi Party MP.
 
 Home Minister Rajnath Singh said in the Lok Sabha the government was ready for discussion on any issue, including on the no-confidence motion. Still, disruptions eventually led to Mahajan adjourning the House. 
 
 A host of opposition parties have pledged support for the no-confidence motion against the government moved by the TDP and YSRCP, both of which are unhappy at Andhra Pradesh not being given 'special category status'(SCS). The parties in support include the Congress, the Left and the Trinamool Congress Their support means it will be more than comfortably accepted as it will have the support of at least 50 members of Parliament (MPs) in the House, which is a minimum requirement. 
 
 The parties that are staying neutral on the motion are the AIADMK, which has 37 MPS, the Biju Janata Dal with 20 MPs and the Telengana Rashtra Samiti, which has 11 MPs.
 
 Still, the BJP will remain unaffected as it has a comfortable majority in the Lok Sabha on its own. The current strength of the Lok Sabha is 539 (excluding the Speaker) and the ruling BJP has 275 members, more than the majority mark of 271, and enjoys the support of several allies. (The BJP's 275 includes two nominated members and the Speaker.) 
 
 The BJP blamed the Opposition for the disruptions. 
 
 "On the one hand, they are saying to bring a no-confidence motion. On the other hand, they are creating uproar in Parliament so that motion is not accepted for discussion. They themselves don't know why they are bringing no-confidence motion," said Union minister Jitendra Singh.
 
 Another BJP leader said the party "isn't afraid" of such a move in the House.
 
 "We aren't afraid of no-confidence motion, we have numbers in Parliament. TDP's stand is political. Suddenly, taking up a sentimental issue and trying to bring a no-confidence motion is something that they have to explain to the people of Andhra Pradesh," said Ram Madhav, BJP general secretary.
 
 Of those who will support the no-confidence motion, the Congress has 48 MPs in the Lok Sabha, the Trinamool Congress has 34, the TDP has 16, the YSR Congress and the CPM have nine MPs each, the NPC has six, AAP and the RJD have four MPs each, and the AIMIM has one MP. In the 'Others' category, those supporting the motion number 13 MPs.
 
 "As far as the Left parties are concerned, we will be supporting the no confidence motion. People have started expressing their no confidence in the  , it's time Parliament does it too," said Duraisamy Raja of the CPI.
 
 YSR Congress was the first to give a notice last week for a no-trust motion after the Centre made it clear that it would not grant special category status to Andhra Pradesh. Not to be outdone by its main rival in the state, TDP, a long-time BJP ally, then decided to break its ties over the issue and brought a no-confidence motion of its own.
 
 Both parties have been lobbying with opposition parties for support to their respective notices. A no-confidence motion notice must be supported by at least 50 MPs to be taken up in the House. The government earlier expressed confidence that the notices, even if they are admitted, will be defeated given its strength in Lok Sabha, where the ruling   has a clear majority.
 
 
 
