NEW DELHI: There is no medicine or vaccine that can prevent  . Only   control can help check its spread, chief of the National Vector Borne Disease   Programme (NVBDCP), Dr PK Sen, said this on Wednesday.

 
 Dr Sen said that civic authorities alone cannot control mosquito breeding and that there is an urgent need for public participation to achieve desired results. “Every year, mosquito-borne diseases claim hundreds of lives. Delhi has been affected badly by it too. We are urging people to ensure cleanliness in their homes and neighbourhood to check stagnation of clean water because that’s where Aedes aegypti mosquitoes that transmit dengue breed,” Sen said while addressing a public lecture organised at All India Institute of Medical Sciences to observe National Dengue Day.
 
 As per municipal corporation data, 12 people have been confirmed positive for dengue as till May 12 this year. Last year, 4,726 people were affected by the disease. In 2016 and 2015, 4,431 and 15,867 people were affected by the mosquito-borne disease.
 
 With urbanisation, increased construction activities and poor waste management, the magnitude of the problem of mosquito-borne diseases is also going up, said  .
 
 Dengue, termed by many experts as the world’s most rapidly spreading mosquito-borne viral disease, is caused by four serotypes. While type I and III are milder in nature causing classic dengue fever and fever without shock respectively, dengue type II and IV are considered deadly. Dr Sen said that last year, type I and III were the predominant strains in Delhi. “This year, the cases are few as of now. AIIMS and National Centre for Disease Control will be screening the predominant strain in due course of time,” he added.
 
 Dr Ashutosh Biswas, professor of medicine at AIIMS, said dengue manifestation ranges from the more common, self-limiting disease to complicated cases requiring hospital care. “Appropriate fluid therapy is a basis of its management as there is no specific medication for this disease,” he said.
 
 
