GURUGRAM: Early morning on Tuesday, as   (43) and his wife   were heading towards the edge of their village, Badshapur, to tend to their buffaloes, three people on a motorbike suddenly appeared and fired shots at them.   was hit by four bullets, two in his back and two in his stomach, and collapsed to his death immediately. A stray bullet also grazed Karishma’s waist, for which she had to be administered first aid. 

 The   mohalla, where Anand lived with his wife and two children, referred to him as Guruji. On Tuesday, it went eerily quiet. After a three-hour-long protest, in which villagers blocked two major city roads — Sohna road and Golf Course Road (Extension) — they agreed to cremate the body, after being assured by senior cops they will arrest the suspects within two days.
 
 According to locals, Anand paid the price for saving neighbour Vijay, who was shot at on February 11, allegedly by the same assailants. “This attack is because Guruji saved someone who came begging to him when he was hurt,” said villager  , who describes himself as Anand’s devotee. According to villagers, Anand saved Vijay when he took the latter to hospital for treatment after he was shot at. Vijay survived and named his assailants, which included local goon Narender alias Tillu, a bootlegger and marijuana pusher, who bore grudge against Anand for this.
 
 According to one villager, Tillu attempted to murder Vijay because the latter was trying to enter the illegal alcohol business, threatening his monopoly. After the attack, Anand’s wife Karishma identified Tillu, though she said the faces of his accomplices were covered. 
 
 Police spokesperson   said an FIR was registered against Tillu and two unknown accomplices at Badshapur police station, based on the statement of Anand’s younger brother Kamal, under sections 302 (murder), 34 (common intent) and relevant sections of the Arms Act. “An investigation is being carried out to arrest the accused at the earliest,” he said.
 
 Several villagers also alleged that a local journalist who is close to Tillu and the cop who was handling the previous probe, have struck a deal to protect Tillu, which took police’s attention away from the goon till he could take his revenge. 
 
 “If the administration had arrested Tillu after he tried to murder Vijay, this wouldn’t have happened,” said Kamal, speaking to TOI. He also said police had dismissed their complaints over the past month, about telephonic threats Anand had received.
 
 Angry villagers demanded Tillu be “encountered”. “These illegal activities have been going on in the village for many years, and police hasn’t bothered to take action,” said one of them. “If cops don’t arrest the suspects as soon as possible, we’ll be forced to hit the streets again for justice,” said a village elder.
 
 Badshapur SHO Vishnu Parshad said they are looking for Tillu. The allegations against the scribe and the cop are also being probed. He said in the earlier case, Vijay had retracted names of the accused ha had named earlier, which is why arrests were not made. 
 
 
 
