NEW DELHI: Resident welfare associations across the city heaved a sigh of relief on Tuesday when the   stayed the amendments made in Master Plan Delhi 2021 to allow commercial activities in certain areas, including residential colonies. Following the respite, the Save our City campaign activated by  , activists and NGOs said it would take the fight to a final conclusion that advocated comprehensive environment and infrastructure assessment and a scientific basis for the rationalisation of land-use conversion charges.

 Rajiv Kakria, head of GK1 RWA and member of Save our City, said, “Many concerns such as the burden on infrastructure, pollution, environment and parking had not been tackled when the amendments were announced. These have been addressed by the court, and it has also rightly demanded an accountability mechanism and environmental impact assessment.” The RWAs claim that Delhi Development Agency had allowed repeated relaxations of norms under MPD that had led to the entry of surrogate businesses like guesthouses, dry-cleaners and other firms into residential areas.
 
 Opposing the changes being made in the Master Plan to prevent the   of unauthorised businesses in residential and non-commercial areas, RWA representatives maintained they were not against  , only against “half baked” solutions that did not solve the problem of illegal commercialisation but postponed it. As Chetan Sharma, general secretary of the Confederation of NCR RWAs, put it, “The Master Plan cannot be modified without application of mind, but it took only three days to bring in the amendments.”
 
 RWAs had apprised the court of key concerns that they had submitted to DDA but which had been ignored. These included the lack of traffic plans, the scaling up of corresponding infrastructure, and a ‘misuser pays’ policy under which violators would be made to pay for upgradation violations.
 
 Save our City has objected to the confusing norms on floor area ration and land-use conversion rate rationalisation, asking for a scientific basis for these. It also was concerned at the increased number of workers being allowed in a particular space but without a corresponding infrastructure upgradation. It was also displeased with the lack of assessment of traffic due to commercialisation and roads being notified for mixed land use or for commercial use without a scientific geospatial survey. 
 
 BS Vohra, who heads  , added, “The Supreme Court has rightly asked where the residents of colonies will go if we keep on adding commercial units through amendments like these.” Regimon CK of the Dwarka Forum applauded the decision and said, “The Supreme Court is saving Delhi from a disastrous step that was fuelled by the greed of politicians and officials. We need the environmental impact assessment on the city carried out before such major changes can be made.”
 
 
