SURAT: “I would have been happier if lives of the eight who died in the terror attack could have been saved,” said 37-year-old Salim Gafur Shaikh from Valsad, after he was informed that he has been conferred with the Uttam   for bravery by the Union home ministry. His name was among 44 from across the country for the Jeevan Raksha Padak award given for meritorious act of bravery. The names were announced on Wednesday ahead of Republic Day after approval by President of India. 

 It was Shaikh’s alertness and presence of mind that saved lives of 50 pilgrims returning from Amarnath on July 10, 2017. Shaikh, who was driving a 56-seater bus, manoeuvred in the dark in mountainous terrain and drove at full tilt for more than 2 km, with a flat tyre as bullets kept whizzing by and saved the lives of over 50 pilgrims.
 
 
 
 
 Eight persons were killed and 17 others suffered bullet injuries in the attack. Shaikh’s bus came under attack near Batengoo of Anantnag district.
 
 “I am happy about the award. But my happiness would have been double if I could have saved lives of the eight who died in the attack,” Shaikh told TOI.
 
 
 
 
 His advice to people is never to lose hope. “Life becomes challenging sometimes but we have to keep faith and fight against all odds,” he said. “I felt very sad that people travelling in my bus died. Two of my women colleagues, very good human beings, also died in the attack. I wish that such attack never happen,” said Shaikh. Shaikh will get the Uttam Jeevan Raksha Padak, second highest honour given to civilians for bravery. He is the only person from Gujarat to receive the award. 
 
 The Centre also announced names for recipients of  , the highest honour, and Jeevan Raksha Padak on Wednesday. After Shaikh and the pilgrims returned from Jammu & Kashmir, Gujarat CM Vijay Rupani had announced that his government would recommend his name for bravery award to the central government.
 
 Shaikh, a father of three, lives with his family in Abrama in Valsad. Originally from Jalgaon in Maharashtra, Shaikh is settled in Valsad since last 18 years and works as a driver.
 
 
