Nagpur: Six of the banks in the consortium that has given loans to   India Private Limited (GCIPL) — a company run by city businessman Padmesh Gupta — have classified the loan account as ‘fraud’. A couple of banks have kept the loan account under the red flagged account (RFA) category, which is one step below the ‘fraud’ classification.

 Sources in the banking sector say once a case is classified as fraud, it becomes a case of criminal investigation. No fresh loans can be granted or other restructuring arrangements can be done with such entities.
 
 The Gupta Group features among the top bank defaulters, with NPAs to the tune of nearly Rs4,000 crore. In the region, this default is only next to Manoj Jayaswal’s Abhijeet Group, which has NPAs of Rs12,000 crore. The Gupta Group business includes coal trading, coal washery, and a captive power plant. The lenders’ consortium for the group is led by Bank of India (BOI).
 
 GCPIL, which is a coal trading company, has bank loans to the tune of Rs2,000 crore, which are now NPA. The information about its classification as fraud is available in the central repository of information on large credits (CRILC). This is a confidential database maintained by RBI for banks’ internal reference. TOI has seen the data, which shows that the account has been classified as fraud or RFA by different banks between 2016 to 2018.
 
 The last to classify the case as a fraud was Vijay Bank, which according to CRILC data did it on February 2018. The first to declare the loan case as fraud was ICICI Bank, on October 2016. The bank also put up a note that in line with RBI guidelines, the lead bank — BOI — has to file a CBI complaint after the fraud classification. BOI, on the other hand, brought the account under the fraud category after ICICI Bank did it in December 2016.
 
 Reasons citied by some of the banks are seen in the data base. For example, Allahabad Bank mentioned that there have been discrepancies in financials, diversions of funds, and non-cooperation of the borrower. Union Bank of India has mentioned it was a case of diversion of funds.
 
 BOI, the lead banker, says that the classification was made on the basis of forensic audit of the loan account. TOI had reported on October 1, 2014, that BOI had finally considered the account as NPA after queries were raised by the auditor.
 
 
