CHENNAI: A quack was arrested on Monday from Deevatipatti village, around 30km from   town, for causing the death of a 19-year-old pregnant girl, in a botched-up   procedure. The woman bled to death after the   practitioner pulled out the foetus with a forceps, that lead to injuries to her bowel and uterus.

 The victim, Deepa, hailing from Nadupatti village, was three months pregnant when she approached Sulthana, 43, who ran an illegal abortion clinic in her house. The procedure was done on March 23.
 
 Three days later, Deepa was rushed to a private hospital close to the village with severe abdominal pain. “Doctors at first thought she had an extrauterine infection and decided to operate,” said Dr Valarmathi M, joint director of  . However, doctors were shocked to find severe bowel injuries and perforations in her uterus. The girl told the doctors she had had an abortion. As her vitals continued to be weak, she was referred to Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital for treatment. She died on March 31.
 
 Following her death, the state health department launched a hunt for the quack who terminated the pregnancy. Investigations led them to Sulthana’s house. “This isn’t the first time we received complaints about her. Every time we caught her, we had to let her go because of lack of evidence,” said Dr Valarmathi. It took a death for her to finally land behind bars.
 
 A school dropout, Sulthana, officials said, had been doing illegal abortions for the last 20 years. When interrogated, she said she had trained as a nursing assistant in an institute in Salem five years ago. “The institute was shut last year as it was illegal,” said Valarmathi. Sulthana was booked under sections 312 (voluntarily causing a woman with child to miscarry, not with the purpose of saving the life of the woman) and 314 (cause miscarriage that results in the death of the woman) of the IPC. “We are investigating other abortions done by her,” said a senior health official.
 
 After a two-decades-long battle to bring down infanticide in districts like Salem, officials are now seeing an uptick in  . The presence of quacks is complicating the fight, with 283 of them arrested in the state in 2017.
 
 
