NEW DELHI: The clothes you just got dry-cleaned may be exposing you to   - a toxic chemical which also acts as a carcinogen and affects the kidney, liver and central nervous system. A new report released by the NGO Toxics Link called "Cleaning Clothes: but what about environment and health" revealed that around 75% of the dry-cleaned samples collected from markets in both Delhi and Kolkata had PERC content. 

 Perchloroethylene which is also known as PERC is a chemical used in the process of dry cleaning and is recognized globally as toxic to the human health and the environment. The study chose 20 garments at random from different dry cleaning units from across Delhi and Kolkata out of which 15 samples were found to be having PERC on them. The report states the residue content left on the clothes ranged from 1.3 mg/kg to as high as 101 mg/kg. While there is no safe standard for PERC content on clothes in India, experts say it can be extremely dangerous in the long-term.
 
  
  
 
 
 "Studies of PERC's effects on humans and animals have demonstrated that it is readily absorbed by inhalation, skin contact or ingestion. The smell that you get when you open the dry cleaned cloth packet might be the chemical residue and you may be unknowingly inhaling it and exposing yourself to poison," said Priti Mahesh, Chief Programme Coordinator, Toxics Link, adding that the chemical has already been banned in a number of countries.
 
  The study also found that the workers in the dry cleaning units in these two cities might be at a severe risk. Long working hours, combined with lack of awareness and use of personal protective gears, means that the workers might be inhaling PERC everyday, it stated. Toxics link also said that dry cleaners in both cities also appeared to be unaware of the rules which is leading to no precautions being used in both its usage and disposal. 
 
 “Most units shared that they dispose off PERC waste in dustbins or drains or bury it underground. There are several restrictions on its usage and disposal in many countries across globe but in India there are no norms and that is harmful,” said Satish Sinha, Associate Director, Toxics Link.
 
