MADURAI: The   has ruled out the demolition of   district collectorate building, raised in a piece of land belonging to the Thanthoni Arulmigu Kalyana Venkataramana Swamy temple. Instead, it ordered the district administration authorities to give fair compensation to the temple authorities. 

 Besides, it ordered for a proper survey to identify the encroachments established on the piece of land belong to the Vennaimalai Arulmigu Balasubramania Swamy temple in Karur, as instructed by the collector two years ago. The collector by the proceedings dated September 22, 2015 had called for a survey by coordinating concerned departments. 
 
 The division bench of justices T S Sivagnanam and R   gave these directions on a batch of petitions filed by A Radhakrishnan from Chennai.
 
 During hearing, special government pleader V R   said that encroachments were reported in three villages including Kathaparai, Aathur and   east. Of them, survey was carried out in one village and sought time to complete the survey. 
 
 The petitioner pleaded that to remove encroachments, the collector had on September 22, 2015 called for the joint survey by coordinating the departments of revenue, police, survey, Hindu religious and charitable endowment, health, electricity and fire and rescue services and directed them to complete it on October 7 the same year. But, there was no action on it. 
 
 “After the court on January 11 last gave a direction in my case, the revenue divisional officer (RDO) of Karur on January 19 passed an order directing his subordinates to survey the land that are under encroachments. The RDO has bypassed the collector’s earlier order, whose action will not serve the purpose and will definitely delay the action on encroachments. How could the RDO modify the collector’s order?” the petitioner asked and sought the implementation of the collector’s order.
 
 Following it, the court said that a proper inspection team should be formed to survey the land and directed to file a status report. The petitioner also sought for removal of the collectorate by saying that the authorities constructed the building on the temple’s land without giving any single paise as compensation. 
 
 Counsel P Athi Moola Pandian told the court that the temple authorities had sought Rs 212. 78 crore as compensation. But, the district administration has arrived at a meagre amount to be paid as compensation. 
 
 Following it, the bench ruled out the removal of collectorate by saying that the building came into existence after spending huge public money. At the same time, the authorities need to give fair compensation, the bench said and adjourned the case to March 26.
 
 
