HYDERABAD: Two more people, including a 10-year-old boy, died after Saturday's high-speed   road crash, taking the death toll to 13, police said. 

 
 Onkar, 10, passed away on Saturday night and his 45-year-old relative, identified as Narsimhulu, succumbed to his injuries on Sunday morning at the state-run Gandhi Hospital. Eight people from one single family perished in the accident. 
 
  
  
 Hospital authorities said while 12 others are still admitted at Gandhi hospital, five are battling for life at   hospital. Some others, who suffered minor injuries, were discharged from hospital on Sunday. 
 
 Eleven people died on the spot, after the driver of a TSRTC bus reportedly lost control of the wheel and hit a lorry from behind and jumped over the road divider to land in front of a SUV coming from the opposite direction. 
 
 While five of the dead were identified as family members of a scribe, Lakshman, resident of Jinnaram village of Sangareddy district, on Saturday itself, everyone travelling in the SUV were part of the same family, and many are critical. 
 
 
 
 
 A day after the horrific accident on the Rajiv Rahadari road near Pragnapur, 10-year-old Onkar and 45-year-old Narsimhulu succumbed to their injuries at Gandhi Hospital, taking the number of deaths from the same extended family to 8. Many of the injured admitted to separate hospitals are still battling for their lives and chances of the toll rising further is high, doctors said.
 
 A member of the extended family, 26-year-old Mallesh, had a narrow escape as he had to drop out of the trip at the last minute.
 
 “I had initially planned to join the group, but my uncle asked me to stay back and take care of the house, as nobody else was there,” he said.
 
 Mallesh blamed the accident on the TSRTC bus driver, who attempted to overtake a lorry and lost control, resulting in the mishap.
 
 Among the victims of the unfortunate accident, 17 belong to the same extended family (cousins and their families). They were residents of Venkatapuram and were returning after visiting Komaravelli Vemulawada temple when the tragedy occured. Six members of the family, all travelling in Qualis died on the spot.
 
 Narsimhulu’s wife Lakshmi is still admitted at the hospital unaware that her son and husband are no more.
 
 Also two more members of the extended family remain critical among the 12 members of the family being treated at the hospital. Among the critical patients is another Lakshmi, wife of Lakshman, who died in the accident.
 
 The patient also lost her son in the accident and another son is battling for life. “She had very serious head injuries and was in a state of shock when she was brought in. She is on ventilator support and her condition is critical. Also 10-yearold Srikanth is in a critical condition currently. His liver was torn and had severe internal bleeding. He was operated upon on Saturday night,” said Dr Shravan Kumar, superintendent of Gandhi hospital.
 
 Among 12 members of the family who are currently at the hospital, five more have undergone minor to major surgeries for their head injuries, spine injuries and fractures. Later in the day three kids were shifted from Gandhi hospital to Yashoda hospital, Secunderabad.
 
 Among the four victims admitted at Yashoda , one woman Rajitha is critical. Her husband passed away in the same accident. “A part of her spinal cord was crushed affecting both her lower limbs. She has been operated upon and is currently in the ICU. Also the three children who were brought in from the Gandhi hospital are currently serious,” said Dr Surender Rao, chief operating officer at the hospital. Another victim, Raghu, who suffered fractures and lost his wife was temporarily discharged to complete her last rites.
 
 
