BHUBANESWAR: The state   is planning to rope in an agency in Israel to retrieve   footage of a Raipur-based courier firm from where English lecturer Punjilal Meher had allegedly sent a parcel bomb to the house of his colleague,   at Patnagarh in February. Meher was arrested on April 26 for planning and executing the parcel blast that killed Sanjukta’s newly wed son Soumyasekhar and mother-in-law Jemamani on February 23.

 Crime Branch said the courier firm’s CCTV hard disk did not have high storage capacity. “We are looking for an auto-rickshaw driver, who transported Meher to the courier shop on February 15. Meher took the plea of his illness and sent the driver to dispatch the consignment to Patnagarh. When we scanned the CCTV footage, we could not get the visuals of the particular day,” a Crime Branch officer said, adding “We contacted some experts in the country, but failed to retrieve the CCTV footage. We are also in touch with an agency in Israel that assured us to retrieve the two-month-old footage.”
 
 Asked why Israel, the officer said services of such nature are the best in the country. The officer did not divulge whether or not the agency is a government investigating unit in Israel. “We (state government) are ready to pay for the retrieval of the CCTV footage. Once retrieved, we will track the driver. It will work as a solid evidence against Meher,” the officer said.
 
 Crime Branch said they will also send Meher’s laptop and some other electronic gadgets to Gujarat state forensic science laboratory in Gandhinagar to retrieve some data. “We came to know that the Gandhinagar laboratory has good technology to retrieve old data. We will also use latest technology (ninhydrin) to trace fingerprint of Meher on a letter and envelope,” the officer said.
 
 Meanwhile, the additional director general of police (Crime Branch) Santosh Upadhyay, who had found vital clues and instructed the investigating team to zero in on Meher, has sent appreciation letters to the team members, including inspector general Arun Bothra and investigating officer Anil Das for cracking the tough case.
 
