Almost 29km away from the main city with no proper connectivity – the   airport is definitely not easily accessible. There is no bus service and tourists and locals, commuting to the city from the airport, have often been found complaining about it, as they have to depend on private cabs, which more often than not, overcharge the passengers. And the problem is likely to multiply in the next two weeks.With the onset of the holiday season, the   will see an increase in footfalls with a lot of tourists visiting the city.Also, locals staying away from home for work or studies will also be headed home for the holidays. With an increase in demand, the government run cabs get hired very fast, thus leaving passengers to depend solely on private taxis. Doonites and tourists share how difficult it becomes travelling to the city from the airport and how imperative it is that the authorities start a bus service for this route.

 
  While the government taxis at the airport charge `800 for Dehradun main city, the private ones charge anywhere between `1300 and `1500 (BCCL/Taresh Dutta)
 Picture for representational purposes only
 
 
 
 Puja,who stays in Prem Nagar and studies in Delhi, says that she usually prefers travelling by train to Doon from Delhi. But this time,when most of trains
 were running late due to fog, she took flight to save time and ended shelling out a lot for the cab service. “I usually take overnight train when I come home as they are very convenient. But in winters, most of the trains run late due to fog. Since, I only get limited holidays, I didn't want to waste them travelling in trains for hours and so I booked a flight.To my surprise, the cost of my flight ticket was same as my cab bill. I book my flight ticket on discount and it cost me `1500.The cab driver at the airport charged me the same amount. For a student to spend `3,000 for a trip back home is too much,” she said.
 
 
 
 Sakshi, a Doonite who works in an IT firm in Bengaluru, says, “I have to come to Doon from Bengaluru once in every three months as my family stays here.
 If I take a train from Bengaluru, it will take me three days to reach Doon, so I always take a flight. And travelling to Doon becomes one costly affair. Not just the flight tickets, I have to shell out `2,500 on just cabs.We need a bus service like it's there in most big cities.”
 
  
  (BCCL/Taresh Dutta) Picture for representational purposes only
 
 
 
 Raksh, a CS student from Haridwar Road, says,“Our government keeps promoting our tourism but we need airport.Many of my cousins,who work in places like Bengaluru, Pune and Mumbai take flights and face the same transportation problem every time they come to the city. Since the airport has no bus facility, they are forced to take cabs that overcharge them.The government should start a bus service soon.”
 
 
 
 The airport director,Vinod Sharma, has been in discussion with the state government over the issue and is hopeful that in the coming year a bus service will
 be started from the airport to the main city. He says, “During holiday season,when the footfall is huge, the government cabs get booked quickly as they maintain a fixed price, leaving many with no choice but to book private cabs. Since no other means of transportation is available at the airport, private cab drivers charge according to their whims.We are in discussion with the state government to start bus services from the airport to Doon and Rishikesh. We are hopeful that bus service will start in the coming year.” to ensure smooth connectivity when it comes to the
 
 
