NAGPUR: In an effort to reduce  , Indian Society of Perinatology and Reproductive Biology (Isoparb) trained medical practitioners from the city, Yavatmal and Amravati in using ‘pulse oximeters’, and gave away these devices to them at a workshop held at a city hotel on Sunday. 

 The oximeters were donated to Isoparb by international   as part of its Safer Surgery Project. Five centres from Nagpur —   hospital, Matru Seva Sangh, Janata Hospital, GMCH and IGGMC, were given the devices.
 
 An oximeter measures a patient’s pulse rate, amount of oxygen the blood is carrying (oxygen saturation) and blood pressure. However, several government, charity and rural hospitals in the state function without this device, causing a rise in complications in some cases. A small pulse oximeter can cost Rs25,000 whereas a larger one can be worth Rs75,000.
 
 The participants were explained the physiology of oxygen transport and were given a practical guide for using ‘Lifebox oximeter’. The other two modules of the workshop were based on introduction to Hypoxia action plan and WHO surgical safety checklist.
 
 “More than 7,000 of the country’s 15,500 operation theatres work without a pulse oximeter. This small device for monitoring blood oxygen is an important part of modern anaesthesia,” said national president Milind Shah.
 
 According to the checklist provided by  , use of this device has proved to reduce surgical complications and maternal mortality by more than 40%, Shah said. 
 
 Dr Yadavrao Raut from Umarkhed was the chief guest at the event.
 
 Dr   said that there is no method in general anaesthesia to check whether a person’s oxygen level is normal. In absence of an oximeter, doctors would understand a person’s lowering oxygen saturation only after the patient is affected by cyanosis in which a part of the body becomes bluish in colour, he said. 
 
 At this stage, his oxygen saturation in only 20% compared to the normal range of 98-100. The oximeter is so sensitive that one immediately knows the drop in saturation and can change the approach towards a patient, he added.
 
 Lifebox is an organization that works to improve the quality and safety of surgical care on a global scale. This was Isoparb’s third such workshop, the other two having been conducted at Solapur and Mumbai.
 
 
