The ever dependable   feels that if India do well in South Africa, England and Australia over the next year and a half, they will be hailed the best-ever Test team to have emerged from the country. 

 ALSO READ: 
 
 
 “We have the opportunity to do well here and then in England and Australia. We have done well in India and Sri Lanka. This is the right time. We don’t have excuses. We have the experience, the best players and if we do well, this will be the best team,” Pujara told reporters in Cape Town on Tuesday.
 
 ALSO READ: 
 
 He said his teammates had been continuously speaking to each other on how to improve their performance in South Africa. “When we were playing at home against Sri Lanka, we had the South Africa series on our minds. We worked on a few things back home. I don’t think we are in any rush, there is plenty of time to prepare,” Pujara said.
 
 Without dwelling too much on the past, Pujara then talked about the challenges ahead for Indian batsmen. “It is important to leave the ball well, especially overseas. Once you move out of Asia, there is enough bounce in the pitches and that is the reason one should be able to leave the ball. It (the adjustment) is both technical and mental.
 
 “The good thing is that most of the players have been here before. Personally, I have been here twice (2010-11 and 2013-14). It is about knowing your game, knowing the conditions and you just need to apply yourself.”
 
 The Indian batsman is also not worried about the bounce in South African pitches. “Yes, there will be some bounce and that is always a challenge. But this time we have had enough preparation and we would like to back ourselves and try and execute the things which we have done over the past one and a half month.”
 
 With the best possible fast bowling attack and the experience to take wickets on flat decks in India, Pujara is confident that “there will be lot of assistance for them (Indian bowlers) in South Africa”. Pujara said the team is not thinking about the kind of wickets that would be prepared for the Test series. “We are not bothered about the kind of pitches they will prepare. We will just try to focus on our processes. We have a clear game plan, whether it is a flat wicket or a grassy one.
 
 “It is up to South Africa on how they want to prepare. It doesn’t matter who plays for them. As a unit we are well prepared. Our pace attack is also much better this time - they are quick. We have that advantage this time,” said Pujara.
 
 “Preparation has been fantastic. We have had three net sessions so far. We are very confident of our chances,” Pujara added.
 
