MYSURU: Presenting the   for the 13th time in his career, chief minister   announced many initiatives aimed at ensuring the overall improvement of his home district, Mysuru.

 His decision to sanction a dedicated cancer treatment unit, the proposal to establish an industrial township in Mysuru, coupled with a renewed thrust on tourism has been welcomed by Mysureans.
 
 The CM’s intent to woo the Lingayat and   communities also came through in the budget, as can be gleaned from his decision to establish the Basava Study Centre at the University of Mysore (UoM), and to develop Kuvempu’s Mysuru home ‘Udaya ravi’ as a Poet monument.
 
 The CM allocated Rs 15 crore for the establishment of a cancer treatment unit, a decision that the medical fraternity in Mysuru has welcomed wholeheartedly. “This will definitely help patients in the region, said Anil Thomas, Onco Surgeon attached to Preethi Cancer Centre. While Mysuru has several corporate cancer treatment hospitals, having a government clinic will be a boon for the underprivileged sections of the society,” he said.
 
 Presently, patients can avail of cancer treatment at a unit at Krishnarajendra (KR) Hospital.
 
 Siddaramaiah has also sanctioned similar facilities in  , where there was a paucity of such facilities, and in  .
 
 Meanwhile, stakeholders in the tourism industry welcomed the proposal to establish Mysuru Haat, along the lines of Delhi Haat.   will come up on property owned by the Karnataka Exhibition Authority. Similar to the one in Delhi, the Haat in Mysuru will be an open-air craft bazaar cum food plaza, and will be managed by the tourism department. The Haat is likely to provide artisans and craftsmen from across the country a platform to ply their wares throughout the year.
 
 Of the 11 industrial townships announced in his budget, one will come up in Mysuru, which will be developed through the Karnataka State Small Scale Industries Development Corporation, while   too will get a similar township.
 
 A grant of Rs 2 crore has been sanctioned to set up the Basava Study Centre at UoM.
 
 The CM has also sanctioned Rs 45 crore for the construction of the second stage of the truck terminal on a land parcel of   junction.
 
 Rs 30 cr for nursing college
 
 The CM has also earmarked Rs 30 crore for the construction of a new facility for the establishment of a nursing college on the campus of the Mysuru Medical College and Research Institute.
 
 Dasara sports will be national sports
 
 Athletes, meanwhile, were delighted with Siddaramaiah’s announcement of the Dasara Sports Meet being recognised as a National Sports Meet. Meanwhile, the state-level event will be conducted as the Dasara CM Cup, for which a sum of Rs 7 crore has been allocated.
 
 
