NEW DELHI: "Are you prepared for your exam or are you a bit nervous?" one of the participants asked Prime Minister at the "  " conversation he had on Friday with students preparing for examinations.

 
 The student's reference was to the   as the big test awaiting Modi and the PM responded to the questioner saying that if one worked hard, the results will come too and added that he spent his energies working for the welfare of 125 crore Indians.
 
 The question from the Class XI student and the PM's response highlighted the rare interaction where Modi played counsellor, advising the attendees not to be awed by the challenge of boards and how to fight exam stress. He urged them to see him as a friend and not a political leader.
 
 To the student who posed the exam question, he said, "If I was your teacher, I would've guided you to take up journalism, kyun ki aise lapet ke sawaal journalists hi puchte hain" and added: "Exam, result and marks should be a by-product. You have done your work, the result will come. If you go by marks, you may not achieve what we really want ... I work on the same principle in politics."
 
 Modi gave the example of the Canadian snowboarder Mark McMorris, who won a bronze medal in the ongoing Winter Olympic Games despite the fact that he was in a coma just eleven months prior to the tournament, and BJP's rise to prominence after along spell on the margins.
 
 Modi said self-confidence comes by challenging oneself and students should think of bettering themselves and not be put down by an adverse result, recalling an election in   where only four   candidates had retained their deposits.
 
 While the event itself was unprecedented, what transpired was more refreshing - a spontaneous, delightful interaction between the PM and nation's 10 crore people.
 
 "Elections come and go, they are like by-products," the PM said, noting that he looked for the best wishes of "125 crore Indians". He interacted with students from across the country at "Pariksha Par Charcha" held in Delhi's Talkatora Stadium to discuss how to make exams stressfree. Nearly 3,000 students at the stadium and many more through video-conferencing joined the interactive session with questions ranging from stress and parental pressure to yoga and how to deal with the competition.
 
 Modi took 10 questions from different locations and institutions, including IITs. Starting the interaction, he said, "Don't think of me as PM but as a friend. You can give me marks out of 10 later." Later when the PM asked how he had done, students shouted in unison: "10
 
 Modi, while recalling his Jana Sangh days and how the party lost all the seats in a Gujarat poll, said: "Whoever wanted to fight was given ticket. Out of 103, the security deposits of 99 were forfeited. Four candidates survived. With their deposit money, they had a party and distributed sweets," Modi said and quoted former Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee: "Haar Nahi Manunga".
 
 The interaction became a raging hit on social media. As the No 1 trend, conversations on #ParikshaPeCharcha got more than 2.5 billion impressions on Twitter.
 
