PUNE: The   has lodged over 113 FIRs in the past three months against those putting up illegal hoardings and banners in the city in a bid to check visual pollution.

 
  
  
 
 Officials in the Pune Municipal Corporation ( )’s sky sign department said the action was intensified from January in coordination with  . Majority of the complaints have been lodged against the   put up at chowks and roads, obstructing signage.
 
 In contrast, a section of citizens claimed that illegal banners and hoardings were all over the city in large numbers and authorities had not been strict enough. They stressed these illegal hangings were obstructing the direction and signboards besides defacing the city.
 
 Tushar Daundkar of the PMC’s sky sign department said, “We conduct drives on timely basis across the city to pull down illegal banners, but this time it is not only about removal of structures. There is a thrust on registration of FIRs with the police against the offenders. So far, 113 FIRs have been registered under the Section 3 of the Prevention of Defacement of Public Property Act (1995),” he said.
 
 PMC has been registering the FIRs against the backdrop of Bombay high court’s recent order asking the civic administration to furnish details through an affidavit about the FIRs registered against the illegal hoardings. Officials in PMC stated that the zonal officers and ward offices had been told to get into the act to ensure cases were registered with the police. A message had been conveyed to all the police stations in the city to register these cases, the officials added.
 
 Quaneez Sukhrani, a civic activist raising voice against illegal banners on many civic platforms, questioned the efforts of the civic authorities and police in pulling down the banners. “The authorities seem to be reluctant to act. The lawmakers are breaking the laws. Huge illegal banners can be seen right in front of the PMC building. Most of these are of politicians. Hardly any action has been taken so far,” Sukhrani said.
 
 
