BAREILLY: For the first time in the country, patients cured of mental illness but abandoned by families unwilling to take them back will find refuge in a rehabilitation home meant solely for them. Instead of living in   institutes after their recovery alongside those still under treatment, which many do while authorities try to locate their families, such patients can stay at the centre among others cured.

 Dolly Chakraborty, joint secretary, department of empowerment of persons with disabilities, ministry of social justice and empowerment, told TOI, “We are planning to set up the National   (NIMRH) in Bhopal. It is an ambitious project of the department.”
 
 A TOI report in 2016 had highlighted the plight of cured mental patients who, spurned by their families, found themselves forced to stay in mental hospitals for years. The issue was later taken up by the  . 
 
 According to the report, some of the patients, though deemed fit to resume a normal life, had languished at the   mental hospital for decades with nowhere else to go. 
 
 Authorities at the hospital had said at the time that they could not locate the addresses of these patients and nobody fromtheir families had come to take them home.
 
 Following the TOI report, advocate   filed a petition in the Supreme Court, which directed the Centre in February last year to assist the court by framing guidelines for the rehabilitation of persons who have been cured of mental illness but who continued to be housed in mental hospitals. 
 
 In July 2017, the apex court had directed all the states and UTs running mental hospitals to implement the guidelines framed by the Centre for the rehabilitation of cured patients. The SC also directed them to file a status report after a year.
 
 According to the detailed project report (DPR) of NIMRH, the project “aims to promote the growth and development of mental health rehabilitation using an integrated multidisciplinary approach by developing it into an advanced centre for clinical services and become a self-sufficient centre for mental health rehabilitation and academics”.
 
 The institute will focus on services to clients with mental health problems, training of manpower, advanced research, policy framing and rehabilitation programmes.
 
 The department of empowerment of persons with disabilities constituted a committee last year under the chairmanship of its secretary.
 
 The panel’s report, titled ‘Guidelines for Rehabilitation of Persons Who Have Been Cured of Mental Illness’, observed that “with current advancements, there should be no requirement of any person to be in the hospital beyond three to six months or maximally up to a year”.
 
