GURUGRAM: Investors of   in the sectors developed along  , who have been complaining of connectivity problems because the completion of the expressway has been delayed, may have more connectivity trouble staring at them. 

 It appears   made an error in calculating how much land to acquire for the expressway, which has jeopardised the connectivity of roads dividing sectors with the expressway.
 
 This means, even after Dwarka Expressway is completed, residents of the new sectors could find it tough to reach the expressway from their respective sectors. 
 
 Already, in absence of clear policy guidelines, construction of the 24m-wide internal sector roads in new sectors is an issue. Now, the 60m-master roads, ie, roads between sectors, could become another headache.
 
 Huda had started land acquisition for Dwarka Expressway in 2007. As per proposal, it had to acquire 150m-wide patches of land — 90m for the expressway, plus 30m on each of its sides for green belts. But, Huda acquired only a 90m-wide patch, just enough for the expressway. In the meantime, the 30m-wide stretches on either side of the road, originally planned as green belts, have been bought up by private owners, cutting off the master roads from the expressway.
 
 The matter came to light recently when Huda was building the road dividing sectors 106 and 109. When the land-owners objected to the project, an investigation was carried out, which revealed Huda has not acquired the 30m-wide patches on either side. 
 
 Master roads that divide sectors 99-102, 101-104, 102-102A, 102A-103, 103-106, 106-109 and 109-112, as well as between other adjoining sectors, all face the same issue. As per an estimate, around 0.75 acre of land needs to be acquired to connect each master road to the expressway, which means Huda needs to acquire around 30-40 acre to complete all master roads.
 
  “Along with the financial burden, the acquisition itself will be very difficult, and will delay completion of the master roads,” said a senior Huda official. Huda’s plan is to buy the land from the new land-owners, or offer alternative plots in exchange. It’s also asking developers to help them buy the land. At present, only few master roads along Dwarka Expressway are connected with it, at places where private developers who had bought the land, agreed to part with it for the roads.
 
  “Some lapses in acquiring land for NPR and its connecting roads has come to our notice. While acquiring the land for NPR, its connection with many of the master roads was not properly considered,” said Huda administrator Chander Shekhar Khare, when asked about the new problem.
 
 
