NAGPUR: The state government has given administrative approval for 42 works at the historical Gadh Mandir and   under the Rs150 crore   pilgrimage and tourism development project. The works are likely to begin from August 15.

 The state’s urban development department issued a notification on Monday giving the green signal for execution of works. Estimated cost of the 42 works is Rs49.28 crore, of which 20 works costing Rs22.07 crore will be executed at Gadh Mandir, and 22 works worth Rs27.21 crore at Ambala lake.
 
 The government had given in-principle approval to the Rs150 crore project on July 14, 2017. Since then, the project was pending for administrative approval.
 
 Various basic amenities will be facilitated at Gadh Mandir, the famous Lord Ram temple, with the Rs22.07 crore. Prominent works are construction of porch stairs along existing staircase to climb Gadh Mandir hillock, yog centre at MTDC resort, construction of roads, toilets, seating arrangements, display boards, landscaping etc.
 
 The public works department, archaeology department and Ramtek Municipal Council will execute the works.
 
 At Ambala Lake, famous for asthi visarjan, structures of 24 temples situated around the water body will be strengthened. Nullah coming into the lake will be diverted. Here too works of basic amenities like parking, toilets, staircases, roads, landscaping etc will be executed.
 
 Welcome gate and water supply infrastructure will be executed at Narayan Tekdi, famous as the place where Tukadoji Maharaj stayed for over a decade.
 
 Guardian minister   held meeting on Monday and directed officials to commence works from August 15. Bawankule also asked officials to begin works on pilgrimage and tourism development projects of Deekshabhoomi and Dragon Palace from August 15.
 
 Bawankule also announced the central government has approved Swadesh Darshan project, under which works will be undertaken for development of Chhota Tajbagh, Waki Dargah, Dhapewada and Paradsinga pilgrimages.
 
 
