The New Year has kick-started and while people are busy with making resolutions, there are a few Telly hotties who are grateful to 2017. We asked a few celebrities to take a moment to think about the one thing they learned in the year gone by and why they are grateful for it.

 Ssumier Pasricha: Online sensation  , popular as Pammi Aunty says, "I believe that anything is possible in this world, you just need to believe in your thoughts."
 
 "I have been working in this industry since a long time but what 2017 gave me I’ll always be grateful in terms of success, love, and respect that I received from people which gave me inner satisfaction," says Ssumier.
 
 
 Namish Taneja: 'Ikyawann' actor says, “I learned to be patient and trust God's timing of your life and try and be patient. The universe conspires to bring us everything we need at the right time and removes the things we don't."
 
 The dashing actor further added, "I am grateful to 2017 for giving me the lovely show, with brilliant co-stars and amazing role. I am looking forward to an exciting new year ahead."
 
 
 Rahulram Manchanda: 'Vani Rani' actor   says, "Letting go is better than holding on, that's what I learned in 2017. Now I have started accepting things as they are, knowing that everything is evolving and changing, as nothing is permanent. 2017 was a beautiful year and I am grateful because it was in this year that I found a friend, who ignited a spark in me, inspired me, motivated me to chase my dreams & kept reminding me to have complete belief and faith in self. I am grateful to have found such an amazing friend in life."
 
 
 Sunaina Shukla:  , who is currently seen playing a comic and colorful role in 'Kunwara Hai Par Hamara Hai' said, "2017 has been very favorable to me. I got an opportunity to be a part of Balaji Telefilms' Chandrakanta and now I am doing yet another amazing show on Big Magic."
 
 The pretty actress, who did the shows like Sankat Mochan Hanumaan, Ajab Gajab – Ghar Jamai and Baal Krishna etc further added, "Everything which you deserve might come to you slowly, but surely, that's what I learned in 2017. I am grateful that this year made me realize the real meaning of 'Patience is a virtue'."
 
 
 Jitendra: "One thing I learned in 2017 is that the less stuff you own, the more sorted your life gets. Instead of materialistic possessions, we should spend the same time and money in real life experiences. Because material possessions will eventually lose their charm, but memories of your trips with your friends will stay young forever. I'm grateful to 2017 that it gave me not one, not two, not three, but 365 new opportunities to live my life," said  , who is currently seen as a flamboyant guy in 'Vani Rani'.
 
 
 Shefali Rana:  , who did the shows like ' ' and ' ' said, "Not giving up is one of the skills which I learned in 2017. No one is going to offer you help unless you won't help yourself. Keep trying. If today is hard, tomorrow might be the worse, but the day after tomorrow will be sunshine. On the professional front, 2017 was amazing. I did 'Ek Vivah Aisa Bhi', and then I shot for an upcoming film. In both the projects, I got an opportunity to do something different."
 
