NEW DELHI: You don’t want to be part of the   management right now. The team has looked anything but convincing in the first lap of the IPL this season. Their base at the  , tangled in legal shenanigans, is fighting uncertainties. Languishing at the bottom of the table, Daredevils face a rampaging   here on Monday with Chris Gayle and KL Rahul itching to put the home attack to the sword.

 
 
 
 When things are not going your way, most teams look for home comfort. The core strategy of most teams, across leagues and sports, has revolved around dominating at home. Daredevils’ homecoming, after a run of five away matches, couldn’t have come at a better time. And the stakes in their first home game of the season couldn’t have been higher.
 
 Captain   and the management, including coach Ricky Ponting, will walk the Kotla turf for the first time in nearly three weeks. The city has witnessed storm, searing heat and fluctuating climate in the meantime. The theory of a home advantage is severely challenged here.
 
 
 
 
 
 Much has changed in these 20 days. Daredevils are in familiar predicament while their opponents are running high on a dose of adrenaline injected by Gayle and Rahul. Ponting’s goosebump-inspiring speeches for the Indian rookies will sound more desperate.
 
 While the Kings are throbbing at the moment, Daredevils are desperately trying to hold their own. Gambhir’s struggles with the bat and Glenn Maxwell’s infamous inconsistency have diluted the performances of youngsters Rishabh Pant and Shreyas Iyer. The bowling unit, save Trent Boult, has struggled to compete. The prospect of facing Rahul, Gayle and Mayank Agarwal will not be very comforting. The Kings batting was the first to hit Daredevils campaign hard at the start of the season.
 
 It’s time to take fresh guard. Like Pant said after his stupendous knock of 84 in Bengaluru on Saturday, “the idea is to hang in and take it to the end.” 
 
 Daredevils are out to build a fortress at Kotla but unfortunately for them they don’t have much time to do it. For starters, one has to see how much of an advantage does the home ground provides to the Daredevils.
 
 
