He is a popular RJ — one with a special knack of knocking the socks off the ladies when it comes to turning on charm on air. He has political aspirations and sees showbiz as a platform to his goals of eventually working for the greater good of society. So, Rohitt, who goes by the moniker Rockstar Rohitt, turned actor with the horror thriller  , which he had co-written with director Navneeth Kumar, the good showing of which prompted the team to collaborate on another project. Only this time,   will be the solo lead in the  , pitched with a powerful character played by Crazy Star V  . The film,   is special to him on many levels, as he has written, acted and produced it as well. A day ahead of the film’s release, Rohitt tells Bangalore Times about his journey of making Buckaasuura.

 
 
 After Karvva, we were looking at getting into the pre-production for the sequel. But the producer had invested in a couple of other films and in the meantime, while those were getting completed, we thought of doing another project. We had two scripts in mind and this time around, I wanted the star cast to go a notch up, as our first project did not have a big name attached to it. To reach out to a bigger audience, we needed at least one big name and when we thought of names, both scripts had a certain character each that we thought were perfect for Ravichandran sir. We had absolutely no other second choice. When we eventually got around to meeting Ravi sir and told him about both scripts, we explained that his characters in both would have negative shades. The first thing he said was that he was looking at doing a role like that in a film with his son, but that it looked like the opportunity already came to him. Of the two scripts, the one he chose was that of Buckaasuura.
 
 
 
 The image that Ravi sir has now is not what he had earlier — the lover boy or Casanova. Given that he has the sobriquet Crazy Star, we don’t really get to see him doing roles that justify that. Honestly, we were not sure if he would agree to work on our film, because the characterisation is really in sync with his Crazy Star status. Once he okayed the basic line, he even sat with us through the scripting and dialogue writing. Audiences will wonder why he behaves a certain way in the film, which will play out and be explained only in the climax.
 
 
 
 The production bit actually happened a little later. Initially, we had a producer onboard who had invested money on the pre-production and set work, etc. But when he had to leave the project, there was no way we could do that as well and let go of our hard work. Someone then suggested that if we were truly confident in our film, then we should pool in all our resources and make it as a film and that’s how all of us also turned producers. As for writing, it is something that began by writing my own scripts as an RJ. I have always been fascinated by creating new ideas and scenes. For Karvva, we spent nearly a year in pre-production, much of which was spent on the script and the dialogues. This time around, I believe we have done a decent job.
 
 
 
 I have a certain affinity for films that are very realistic and have something unique in them. I have done two films with a team that I have been closely associated with and am now looking at working with a couple of other teams. As far as I am concerned, whoever I work with, I’d like to be involved in the creative process as well, including the writing stage, as that gives me more satisfaction as an actor. Just coming to set, giving your lines and doing what is expected of you for the day is not something I am comfortable with. I would like to take ownership of my work, for which I need to be involved in the making process. 
 
 
 
 I believe that an actor has to be involved in the scripting to get a feel of the character. It has nothing to do with whether you have arrived or not. If you look at some big names from Kannada cinema, they have all been writers as well. One of my biggest inspirations, for instance, is the late Shankar Nag, who used to write and act and that’s how he evolved.
 
 
