If you have watched  , I am hoping you already know so much about me. Ninety nine per cent of the things shown in the movie is true, even the tricks to fool our father to escape the   classes,” laughs  , the Commonwealth (2014) Wrestling gold medalist, who was in the city to inaugurate a national-level cultural and sports fest at a college.In a chat with CT, she says how parents can motivate children to become successful, why she doesn’t bother about negative comments on social media and more... 

 
 
 When we become a celebrity, it really feels nice, but becoming a public figure comes with its own sweet and bitter consequences. In this generation of social media, it’s easy to hurt someone’s sentiments. I, too, receive negative comments on my social media pages, and they are really hurtful. But what I do to not get affected by the negative remarks on my performance or personal life is just simple — ignore them. I am a very strong woman, and any negative remark made on me will never stop me or pull me down. If someone is saying something about me, that’s their mindset and I can’t change that. The trick is to pretend that you didn’t hear, see or know any of that. That way, you will have peace of mind.
 
 
 
 I have become an icon not only among women wrestlers, but also among general public. It feels good when a lot of people know about you and want to learn more about you. When I go to sports events, family functions, or just hang out with friends, I come across a lot of Geeta and Babita sisters. There are even brothers who like to call themselves by our names. Yes, boys, too! It makes us so happy when we see sisters and brothers fighting for our names.
 
 
 
 Before Dangal, there was not much recognition for wrestling as a sport. Well, may be a very small population knew about wrestling, but not many knew women, too, can be wrestlers. Movies like Dangal and Sultan have created massive awareness about the sport. Now, it really feels special to see so many women pursuing wrestling as a career. Earlier, the word sports meant cricket to Indians. But today, people know about other sports and sportspersons. And I must say that after Dangal, I have personally seen a drastic change in the mindset of people.
 
 
 
 Earlier girls were not allowed to step outside their homes. They didn’t have their own voice, identity or a reason for their existence. Thanks to parents like mine who became their daughters’ voice and stood in front of them like a shield to protect them from all sorts of distractions and hurdles. Parents play an important role in moulding their children’s future and because of their existence, we could become the face of our nation. Behind every successful, independent girl, there’s a strong father who has always believed in her, motivated and inspired her to excel in what she is good at and become inspiration for millions of other girls. It’s good to see there are so many sportswomen today like PV Sindhu and Sakshi Malik. They have all brought laurels to our country and are absolute sources of inspiration to so many other women. It’s more like they have unlocked the doors for others and showed them a way to chase their dreams. About failure, I want to tell youngsters that they need to understand that winning or losing a match doesn’t count, what counts is their performance. Make sure you give your cent per cent in every game.
 
 
 There were a lot of people who used to taunt my parents. But my strong-willed father never paid heed to any of those comments. He is a man who only listens to his heart and believes in him. He always says that if we really want to do something, we must do it at any cost, mute the voices that can only pull us down. He is a little stubborn; so when he decided that he wanted to take his daughters to Olympics and make them bring gold medals for the country, he did it! His stubbornness pushed and motivated us to reach the Olympics. His mantra is — be stubborn and change the world!
 
 
 
 Wrestling is in my blood. Wrestling and I, we both can’t live without each other. Without wrestling, I am nothing. It has become a part of me. The day I don’t go for training, I feel empty as if I have lost something important. The moment I get back to training, it feels, I am back, and have found the missing part. I have dedicated my life to wrestling. If I decide to take a break from wrestling, that would be to start my dream project, my own academy in   to help and guide youngsters to excel in wrestling.
 
 
 
