NAGPUR: “Fazal sahab, aa jao jaldi,”   coach   told the skipper inviting him for the post-match press conference. Faiz requested for some more time. Pandit couldn’t refuse him.

 Faiz and the players had done everything what Pandit had asked them to do for the last six months. Now, it was Pandit’s turn to oblige. He waited patiently for Faiz till he finished savouring the winning moment with the team and his family. After all, it has taken him 14 years to reach here.
 
 Faiz has always aimed high and loves performing against the best. “This feeling can’t be described. As a cricketer, we always dream of winning the  . It is the biggest achievement in our careers. It happened today and I am happy. For now, we are on seventh heaven. But again, we have to be down-to-earth and start preparing tomorrow,” said the proud skipper.
 
 Faiz kept talking throughout the season about visualizing the winning moment. “I never felt we couldn’t win the trophy. I was in England before the season started. When I came to Nagpur and met Chandu sir, the first thing we discussed was how to win the title. The process started from there. The team was already preparing for it but then I joined and from Day 1 of the preparation I felt that we would lift the trophy,” said the 32-year-old opening batsman.
 
 Vidarbha have registered seven victories this season but it was the season opener that set the tone. When Vidarbha beat Punjab, they knew it was the start of something big. “Punjab are a great side and we got seven points from that game. That set the tone and we started believing that we can win the trophy,” said Fazal.
 
 Coach Chandrakant Pandit changed the mindset of the players. He brought them out of their comfort zones and nobody complained. They embraced the change with a positive mindset.
 
 “If you want to achieve something, you will have to work hard. You will have to go through the process — be it discipline or anything else. Chandu sir is a tough task master and a tough cookie, but yes, we are happy. After working hard for so many hours and months, we can see the result now,” Faiz pointed out.
 
 The team man that he is, Faiz wanted all his boys to play the Irani Trophy in which the Ranji champions take on the Rest of India side. He said that before the final. It wasn’t over-confidece or arrogance, nor was he showing any disrespect to Delhi.
 
 “After working so hard in the entire season it would be unfair if only just 2-3 of us play the Irani Trophy after getting selected for the Rest. Now, Vidarbha will take on the Rest,” he said.
 
 Nothing has come easy for him. Neither the Indian cap nor the Ranji Trophy title. Now, Faiz would certainly want his boys to bag a double by winning the Irani Trophy.
 
 
