Prachi Arya
Stand-up comedian   took full advantage of his recent visit to Lucknow to play pranks on Lucknowites. Shetty, who was in the city with contestants   and   of the the Lucknow gharana, to promote their show High fever, Dance Ka  , took out time after their professional commitments to explore the city and its people.
 The Great Indian Laughter Challenge participant Nitesh, who is known for his wit and humour, went to   to have a look around and also used the opportunity to pull a fast one on unsuspecting city folk.
 Shetty’s first ‘victims’ were a group of boys outside   mall. Posing as a cop, Shetty walked up to the boys and grilled them about their occupation, address, even asking them questions like 'Papa ka phone number batao' much to their dismay. 
 Enjoying every bit of his prank, Shetty continued to grill the boys till they were convinced they had done something wrong and looked extremely nervous. Only then did Shetty relent and disclosed his real identity, much to the relief of the boys, who upon realising they had been pranked, shared a good laugh with Nitesh. Later, he picked out two girls enjoying paani ka bataasha. Nitesh just went and stood in front of them, staring hard as they ate the bataashas. Later, he picked up a khali dona and stretched out his hand begging them to share a bataasha with him, which eventually they did. Later, when Nitesh revealed his identity to them, the girls couldn’t help but laugh out loud. 
  
  Nitesh pranked these girls into sharing their paani ka bataashas with him (BCCL/ Aditya Yadav) 
 
 
 Randomly choosing to prank people, Nitesh had a very good time in Lucknow, prompting him to say, "I was really scared initially to play pranks on people in Lucknow as I didn’t know how they would react. But seeing the response of the people here, especially youngsters, I am thoroughly impressed. Lucknowites are very sporting and they all enjoyed my pranks in the end."
 Nitesh adds, "Mujhe toh laga tha ki log mujhe yahan jooton se marengey but thankfully they were all indeed very sporting. My pranks proved that people here appreciate good humour and it shows the free thinking attitude of the city." The comedian, who was visiting Lucknow for the fist time, feels that Lucknow defines royalty. "The city reminds one of his roots and culture which is certainly missing in Mumbai," says Nitesh.
 
  
  One of Nitesh’s ‘victims’ being pranked by the comedian in Lucknow (BCCL/ Aditya Yadav) 
 
 
 Nowadays, when there are a lot of comedy shows being shown on TV and stand-up comedians becoming more popular, Nitesh feels that making one’s mark in the genre is not difficult. "Comedy right now is at its peak and I would like to convey a message to all the aspiring comedians that now is the time to get into the comedy genre because soon it will reach a saturation point. From online to television, various stand-up comedians have found their space in this genre and are in great demand. The thing that matters is what unique and creative aspect you can add to your comedy because at the end of the day it is an art form. If there is nothing creative and unique in your acts, then people will not want to see you," adds Nitesh. 
  — Prachi Arya
  
 
