 minces no words when he says that power induces fear. "Religion is based on absence of fear. The moment it enters the zone of politics, fear is attached to it. Politicians take advantage of this very thing," he opined. In a freewheeling chat, the author and mythological expert spoke to us about Indian culture, films and the current socio-political scenario, during a recent visit to the city. Excerpts:

 
 
  Our understanding of tradition is very poor. People have started to look at certain things in a very specific way. For example, 1500 years ago Jain munis were writing about gender studies but we have grown to believe that it is a contemporary European subject. The Indian education system was designed around the Indian state and not around the culture. Moreover, our textbooks are badly written. 
 
  
 
  I think we are a little embarrassed about our culture. I am shocked about the amount of knowledge people don’t have. If presented properly, the information about our culture will change the way we look at the world.
 
  
 
  I think our filmmakers have become lazy. But it’s really not their fault. The things that we have been fed through textbooks under the umbrella of knowledge about India have kept us away from the real idea of India. That’s why people think   creates art. What he does is opulent but that’s lazy work. Take the example of   where Deepika Padukone’s costume has miniature paintings. Now, the story of Padmaavat takes place in the 13th century whereas miniature paintings came to India in the 16th century. This is a minor but very important detail. But Bhansali ko farak nahi padta hai because logon ko bhi kuch pata nahi hai uske baare mein.
 
 
  
  
 
 Not just this, our films have also restricted the number of songs women sing. There was a study I went through recently, which said that earlier Hindi films had 4-5 songs sung by women and today it has come down to 1 or 2. Even those are item songs, which are for the pleasure of the man. So, the whole concept of women singing for their satisfaction has changed over the years.
 
  
 
  We need to package it very well and we don’t know how to do that. Look at Japan. The way the Japanese have packaged their culture is beautiful. That’s why it’s thriving. China, on the other hand, has wiped out its culture totally. In India, if you ask a random person about traditions, more often than not the reply you will get is ‘Traditional matlab kurta aur sari’. That’s how blissfully unaware we are.
 
  
 
  The younger generation is interested in my work. That’s for sure. My work is bringing a different perspective of looking at things and perhaps that is clicking with a lot of people. The government’s approach towards history and culture is ni-ras; it’s bland. I will never subscribe to the that or the Hindutva ideology either.
 
  
 
  I think it is better to deny to claims. If you are claiming something happened, where is the proof? Show me proof and I will believe it. Also, how come politicians know things that experts of the field don’t? I am shocked at the level of confidence they say these things with. Confidence is a sign of stupidity. No scholar in the world would say that I am confident this happened. They will say ‘most probably, this is what may have happened’. And this is not just true of India. Across the world there are such people who claim that scientific marvels were already there since ancient times. 
 
  The only reason we are listening to them is because they are in power and they can kill you or throw you in jail if you disagree with their views. 
 
  
 
  Science and religion can’t go hand in hand because science is based on questioning things; it’s about showing avishwas. Whereas religion is based on faith or vishwas.
 
 
