GUNTUR: Addressing a massive public meeting in  , the gateway to the capital city of   on Wednesday,   supremo Jaganmohan Reddy questioned CM Naidu’s authority for forcibly taking over the green fields in the capital city area under the pretext of building world-class capital city. 

  accused CM of failing to construct even a single permanent structure in the capital city after getting 35,000 acres and hence to thrown away TDP for ditching common people from AP. 
 
 “The lands that have been forcibly taken over from the small and poor farmers are being distributed to corporate people at throwaway prices while the farmers were still waiting to receive the benefits promised by the government,” Jagan fumed. He said that the Dalit farmers from Amaravati told him that ruling party leaders forced them to give up their lands at meagre amounts. 
 
 “The TDP shamelessly purchased the lands of poor and Dalit farmers and pocketed huge amounts. Did you vote them only to forcibly acquire your lands?” he asked. 
 
 Talking about the ongoing   row, Jagan held   solely responsible for AP, not the Special Category Status (SCS). He also alleged that Naidu compromised with the Centre for four long years for his selfish gains and pushing the state into debts. 
 
 “Naidu never had the courage to ask his MPs to resign Lok Sabha along with YSRC MPs despite parting ways with NDA. Had all the 25 MPs sat down together for the indefinite hunger strike, the Centre would have bowed down and granted the SCS status to Andhra Pradesh. 
 
 Talking about the investments from various companies and the number of jobs it would have created in the state, Jagan lashed at Naidu saying that whatever the CM said initially was nothing but complete baloney. 
 
 “Naidu said that AP had attracted Rs 40 lakh crore of investments into the state and 20 lakh jobs were created after the Vizag CII summit. In reality, not even a single major industry was set up in the state and jobs were created. This is how he could brazenly tell lies to the public in broad daylight,” he said. 
 
 He also accused senior TDP leaders did nothing but filled their own pockets as thousands of lorries of sand was and is being illegally transported right through CM’s residence in Undavalli. 
 
 
