SALIGAO: One of the finest heritage buildings in Mapusa, the St Mary’s convent high school has been restored for use as   municipal council’s office, but another period building across the road lies partly shut in sheer neglect.

 The precarious condition of the heritage building, ‘Administracao das Comunidades de Bardez’ that now houses the office of administrator of comunidades, north zone, shows its lack of maintenance, raising fears of its collapse.
 
 The period building with a mix of Portuguese and vernacular features has not received a lick of paint for years, and the existing coat is slowly peeling off. Interior walls have developed cracks and its roof is also partly open and could pose a risk to the staff working in the building. 
 
 The telephone and health department offices on the ground floor have shifted to other premises since long. Hundreds of visitors enter the building for inquiries pertaining to the documents of comunidades.
 
 “The invaluable records of comunidades and gaunkars are badly maintained,” one of the gaunkars said. The gaunkars and citizens are surprised over the apathy shown by authorities to carry out repairs to the heritage building. Speaking to TOI, a local Mario D’Souza said that the authorities should carry out urgent maintenance of the building by renovating it and also repairing the walls. 
 
 “The entire building is in a pathetic condition. It needs urgent maintenance and even the books in the office of the comunidade are in tatters,” D’Souza said. 
 
 The comunidade office should be shifted temporarily in the interest of the staff and visitors’ safety till its restoration is carried out, he added.
 
 Concurring with this viewpoint, another local resident, Mahesh Rane, a lawyer, said that the building deserves restoration like the MMC building on its northern side. “This building is a heritage structure and the government should take up its conservation on a war-footing, considering its architectural features and give it a facelift,” Rane said.
 
 Administrator of comunidades, north zone, Gaurish Shankwalkar said that he has written to PWD for carrying out immediate measures. “I have already written to the PWD for an estimate to undertake roof repairs,” Shankwalkar told TOI.
 
 If the repairs are carried out, there will be no problems for the moment. He said that his office lacks funds and it has sought help from MMC to undertake painting of the building. The council has assured to make provisions in the next budget for carrying out these works and its maintenance,” Shankwalkar said.
 
 
