DEHRADUN: A girl not more than 18 and dressed in a crisp white sari speaks haltingly, sometimes her voice just a whisper. “Yes, I am aware of the Kathua incident. Most of us are following it closely,” she says, gesturing towards the three girls sitting alongside, who, like her, are rape survivors.

 
 At the   in the heart of Dehradun, a one-of-its-kind shelter that houses 50 women who have suffered rape, there is a raging debate among the girls and women.
 
 Should news reports take the Jammu girl’s name and show her face if her parents agree to it? For that matter, should rape survivors — with the permission of guardians if they are minors — come out in the open with their stories? No names changed, no face blurred? Almost all of them were unanimous in their opinion.
 
  
  
 
 “Why should we be asked to hide our identities when we haven’t committed any crime? Shouldn’t those who are committing rapes be the ones covering their faces?” the girl in the white sari says, her voice steady now, eyes displaying flashes of anger. “By remaining anonymous, we are only letting rapists gain strength.” Other heads nod in assent. Whether or not to disclose the identity of a rape survivor has for long been a grey area in the judicial system.
 
 
 
 Section 228 A of the IPC prohibits publicising the name of the survivor and entails in case of a violation imprisonment up to two years which may or may not be accompanied with a fine.
 
 However, there are provisions under which the identity can be revealed — a) if the police official conducting the investigation authorises it in good faith, b) if the survivor herself allows it in writing, or c) if the victim is dead or minor or of unsound mind, and her next of kin authorises it in writing.
 
 Renu D Singh, a human rights lawyer who runs   , the NGO, says that the basic aim of Section 228 was to ensure that rape survivors once they get back to their daily lives — do not have their past catching up with them.
 
 “But it tends to get misused a lot, often against those who are trying to help the survivor,” she says, reeling off details of a string of cases filed against her by people accused of rape. “A man in the city had been raping a girl for several months. Her parents got her married to the rapist as a form of compromise. Eventually, the woman ran away and took shelter at our centre. The man, in order to harass us, filed RTIs and dug up instances where I had participated in panel discussions with rape survivors post the   incident,” she says. 
 
 “He then filed a petition accusing me of violating Section 228 A by disclosing the identity of rape survivors in public forums.” Even though the law clearly states provisions under which the identity can be revealed, such petitions get admitted in court. “The irony,” Singh says, “is that they are filed by rapists themselves.”
 
 Family and societal pressure to remain incognito does exist, the women at the centre admit, but add that survivors can get justice faster if they come out and name and shame their perpetrators. One survivor studying to be a lawyer (most of the women at the centre are pursuing law in order to fight their cases themselves or help others like them) says she recalls a case. “The rapist was convicted. He came out on bail and began accosting the girl. Later, she died in a road accident which many believed was done by the man.”
 
 There is another point, adds Singh. “Just because a girl is a rape survivor, her right to expression under Article 19 of the Constitution cannot be snatched. Remember, she is the victim of a crime, not a criminal. When a rapist can shout that he is innocent, why can’t the girl come forth and tell her own story?”
 
 
 
