DAVANAGERE: Name-calling by the   and BJP in the run-up to assembly polls has gotten shriller by the day. Prime Minister   took it up a notch on Tuesday by calling Siddaramaiah’s government a “seeda rupaiyya” (money first) one.

 Addressing a farmers rally which coincided with the 75th birthday of BJP state president B S Yeddyurappa, Modi told the massive crowd: “This   sarkar should not be allowed to continue even for a minute. It is certain that this Karnataka government will go.”
 
 Continuing his rhetorical allegations that the state Congress government was corrupt, Modi said: “No public work in the state happens without paying commission for a project.” Citing I-T raids on a minister as a prime example of commission, the PM said: “I have never heard of an I-T raid on any minister during my time. Bundles of notes were found and diaries with entries of moneys paid were seized. Whose money is this? Where is it coming from? If it is not a seeda rupaiyya sarkar, then what else can you call it?”
 
 Modi insisted the only alternative to this “corrupt” government was the BJP. He claimed he had witnessed “hatred” towards the Congress regime at his two previous public rallies in Bengaluru and Mysuru. He said this suggested that voters are ready to throw out this government.
 
 Modi said money released by the Centre had not been spent by the state government. “The   government has not considered the welfare of the farmers. Several schemes worth crores of rupees have been stalled since it is dependent on the commission,” he claimed.
 
 Modi claimed as much as Rs 55 crore released towards minimum support price (MSP) has been kept pending with the state treasury. “For the health of children and pregnant mothers, the central government had launched a health scheme,” he said. “But as much as Rs 500 crore is still in the state coffers. The same situation is with the education department with a balance of Rs 400 crore still unspent under the Sarvashikasha Abhiyaan (SSA) and another scheme. It is a naakam sarkar (useless government),” he said.
 
 
