AHMEDABAD:  , 32, from Chhatral town in Gandhinagar,   on Monday morning. Farnaz had allegedly been beaten by a group of   on March 5. Cops moved immediately after Farzan’s death and arrested the accused.

 After news of Farzan’s death spread, various   staged a demonstration on VS Hospital premises. His family members refused to accept his body until the state government agreed to two of their demands. They demanded the immediate arrest of the accused persons and compensation for the murder. 
 
  
  “We had been constantly reminding the authorities that communal tension was building up in Chhatral, but the government did not take any action. Farzan was killed because of utter negligence on the part of the government and its failure to maintain law and order. It is bound to pay compensation for the death,” said advocate Shamshad Pathan, convener of Alp Sankhyak Adhikar Manch.
 
 After Saiyad’s death, Kalol police got into action and arrested two more persons for the attack. Police had arrested Amit alias Kaliyo and Ankit Nadiya last week. On Monday, Avnesh Patel, Dhimant Patel, Dharmesh Patel and Trikam Patel were arrested. The last two were apprehended in Goa. Gandhinagar SP Virendra Singh Yadav said that murder charges have been added in the FIR against the accused persons. After news of fresh arrests trickled in, the family members accepted the dead body and the burial took place in Chhatral late in the evening. Thousands attended the funeral procession.
 
 The accused persons had targeted Saiyad and his mother Roshan, when they were on Saiyad’s motorcycle at 5am on March 5. They had allegedly attacked the duo with sharp weapons and lathis. Roshan Saiyad is still under treatment as three fingers on her left hand were chopped of in the incident. 
 
 Meanwhile, police protection was provided in Chhatral town after the Muslim community expressed apprehensions about their safety. Girl students, who were to take the board exams, were granted protection, police officials said.
 
 
