KOCHI: Bringing development in priority areas in a ‘mission mode’ was   Vijayan’s brainchild which he had been advocating right from his Nava Kerala Yatra. Two years into his rule, his umbrella programme Nava Keralam Karma Padhathi (NKKP) is on track with three of the four individual missions performing well.

 Kerala government is implementing four ‘missions’ – Aardram, Education Rejuvenation,   and LIFE (Livelihood Inclusion and Financial Empowerment). While Aardram focuses on revamping the healthcare system into a peoplefriendly one and Education Rejuvenation attempts to modernise schools and to develop quality content for students. LIFE’s target is to provide housing for the homeless and Haritha Keralam is for waste management, organic farming and water resources management.
 
 
 “Of all the four missions, Aardram, LIFE and Education Rejuvenation have made significant progress in attaining the set goals. However, Haritha Keralam has fallen behind as nothing much has happened in the waste management part of the mission and promotion of organic agriculture. Progress in water resources management starts and ends with photo ops of Varattar rejuvenation programme,” a highly placed source said.
 
  
  
 
 Rajeev  , additional chief secretary (health and family welfare) confirmed that Aardram is progressing well. “Of the 170 primary health centres (PHCs) we have transformed 88 into family health centres (FHCs). Construction of the rest is going on. By March end we might be able to complete works of 160 centres. Laboratory equipment for 120 FHCs has arrived though some centres are yet to finish the construction of the lab facility,” he said.
 
 The other major step in healthcare is reforming the out-patient management procedure. “The transformation of out-patient wing of   will be completed by March. The online booking system, being introduced in a phased manner across departments, will be ready by February end. The reformation of out-patient wings of other medical colleges are going on, with the last one being scheduled for completion in September, 2018. We are also transforming the out-patient wings at taluk hospitals,” he said.
 
 Except for two districts, the tablet computers for preparing electronic health record have arrived and by end of February, the whole state will be covered. By March, the training of   professionals will be complete, Sadanandan said.
 
 It seems that the health department is relatively secured from the financial constraints the state have, now. Already the department has started three KIIFB-funded projects. Four more are waiting for approval, currently. “KIIFB will be providing Rs 1,200 crore for these seven projects, which is the highest single governmental investment in health sector in Kerala so far,” Sadanandan said.
 
 Similarly, the Education Rejuvenation mission aims at converting 1,000 schools to international standards, said A  , secretary, department of general education. “Initially, 141 schools are being modernised at an investment of Rs 5 crore and 43 schools at a cost of Rs 3 crore. Further, some more schools would be transformed at a cost of Rs 1 crore,” he added.
 
 “The next is converting 45,000 classrooms of 1,775 high schools and higher secondary schools into hightech ones. Once furnished, these rooms will be fitted out with up to eight pieces of equipment including laptops and projectors. Equipment for 7,000 classrooms has already been distributed. The rest of the classrooms will be covered in two months’ time. At the beginning of the next academic year, all the 45,000 classrooms will be hightech,” Shajahan said.
 
 Academic intervention - which includes curriculum revision, teacher training, activity-based interventions and academic monitoring – is another aspect the mission is looking at. “The teacher training programme to begin on April 1 will have revised modules. At the beginning of the next academic year, new classroom practices will be followed,” he said.
 
  has approved projects worth more than Rs 1,300 crore and it is expected that the overall infrastructure development cost of the educational projects will come around Rs 2,000 crore. LIFE Mission has a target of providing housing to nearly 5.15 lakh homeless people over a period of 5 years, at an estimated cost of Rs 42,600 crore. It took a year-long survey to find out the beneficiaries. The mission focused on 67,000 families that had already received financial help from any of the governmental projects, but were unable to complete the houses due to lack of further funding.
 
 We took them as initial beneficiaries and are helping them to finish the work. Already 4,500 houses are completed and our target is to finish rest of the houses within the stipulated time, said a top official of LIFE Mission.
 
 Haritha Keralam is currently focusing on public awareness campaigns, said an official.
 
