GURUGRAM: Three local businessmen believed to have been proactive in mobilising support for protests against the film Padmaavat were among five people taken into preventive custody in Gurugram on Friday. Since Wednesday afternoon, when a mob attacked school buses and burnt a Haryana Roadways   in the city, police have detained 14 people in the city.

 
 
 This includes Suraj Pal Amu, a former BJP functionary and now general secretary of Rajput outfit  , which has been leading protests against the film.   has been sent to judicial custody till Monday, DCP (headquarters) Deepak Gahlwat said.
 
 So far, 24 people have also been arrested — including one on Friday — for vandalism across the city, 18 among them for the mob violence at  . More arrests have not been ruled out with raids continuing in various parts of the city. “Efforts are on to identify all those hooligans who were involved in the vandalism. Police personnel have been deployed at all malls and sensitive locations to maintain law and order. The situation in Gurugram is peaceful and fully under control,” police commissioner Sandeep Khirwar said on Friday.
 
 In all, seven cases have been registered at various police stations for violence during protests against Padmaavat. The identity of the person arrested on Friday could not be ascertained but it is believed he is either from Kasan or Bash Kushla. “We had peaceful gatherings in Sector 14 and Bash Kushla with residents of four villages. Cops have detained members of the community who were there and are saying we had an assembly during prohibitory orders,” said Arun Chauhan, a member of the Rajput Mahasabha. 
 
 Amu, who was taken into preventive custody on Thursday night for making public statements that were “detrimental” to law and order, has been booked under sections 107 (apprehension of breach of peace and tranquility) and 151 (arrest to prevent the commission of cognizable offences) of the Criminal Procedure Code.
 
 Sources said Amu earned the chief minister’s ire when he did not refrain from instigating violence despite a call for peace from Manohar Lal Khattar on Thursday. On Thursday morning, he had announced that he would visit cinema halls in Gurugram and would distribute flowers to audience.
 
 Earlier in November, Amu had sparked a controversy by announcing a bounty of Rs 10 crore for beheading the film’s protagonist Deepika Padukone and director Sanjay Leela Bhansali.
 
 
