PATNA: In what sounded like a veiled warning to ally  , CM   on Tuesday reiterated he would not compromise on the issue of maintaining social harmony in the state just as he didn’t compromise on the issue of corruption in the past.

 Nitish’s angry outburst came a day after he backed fellow   ally and LJP chief Ram Vilas Paswan for his statement that NDA needed to take along all sections of the society the way the   ruled the country for decades by “building an inclusive society”.
 
 Addressing a ‘Yuva Sammelan’ organised by Congress-turned-JD (U) leader Ashok Choudhary at the jam-packed S   in Patna, Nitish berated “certain people” creating social disturbances by making ‘anaap-shanaap’ (meaningless) statements. “Such people should know I won’t tolerate any attempt to disturb social harmony,” he said.
 
 Without naming Union minister Giriraj Singh and state BJP president   who made statements contrary to the state government’s stand on the murder of a BJP supporter in Darbhanga last week, Nitish said a land dispute was the reason for the murder, but someone started attributing it to the naming of an intersection after PM Narendra Modi Ji by the BJP supporter.
 
 “I spoke with the DGP who said a land dispute between two families was the reason for murder. (Deputy CM) Sushil Kumar Modi ji also tweeted that a land dispute was the cause and also said this to me. Still, ‘anaap-shanaap’ statements about the murder circulated in the media and social media,” Nitish said and requested the media not to publish such statements made before conclusion of police investigations into such cases.
 
 Referring to the corruption charges against RJD Lalu Prasad’s family, Nitish without taking his name said, “I had just asked them to clarify before people. Since they failed to do so, we took our decision (to part with the RJD),” he said and added just as he didn’t compromise with corruption, he would not compromise on the issue of social harmony.
 
 Going a step further, the JD (U) president also said he was not bothered about votes. “I work for people, including children who are not voters, and not for votes,” he said.
 
 The Yuva Sammelan was billed as a “show of strength” of Choudhary since he quit the Congress three weeks ago. 
 
 
