GURUGRAM: Those who live and breathe the Game of Kings are cut from a different cloth than the rest of sport’s mortals (and immortals). But even in the world of teen chess wunderkinds,   is conspicuous.

 Last week, at a tournament in  , Prithu, 13, completed his   (IM) title and achieved his maiden   (GM) norm.  ,  , currently has him ranked eighth in the under-14 age group (and fifth in Asia). It’s not rare for someone his age to gain that first GM norm, but if Prithu were to notch up a couple more, and take his ELO rating to above 2500, he’ll likely be on his way.
 
 Prithu had almost zero expectations when heading out to play the Tradewise Gibraltar Masters, and no thoughts of gaining a GM norm having lost the previous day. Such a frame of mind helped him comfortably see off the challenge of Norway’s Christiansen Johan-Sebastian in the ninth and last-but-one round.
 
 The gifted Prithu came to the game when well past his ninth birthday, unusually late for a chess-playing kid. He’s a quiet lad who becomes garrulously engaged when the conversation turns to chess, especially the game’s old masters. 
 
 For, he’s a firm believer in learning from their tactics and positional sense. “They didn’t have the aid of using computers or depending on data,” he pointed out.
 
 “Sometimes, the human brain can work so much better – and anyway, most players are bored of heavy analysis!” Prithu professes himself an admirer of the Russians, who he believes are technically nonpareil. Still, he adds, you can’t ignore the mind games. “Psychology plays a big role in games at the top level.”
 
 What about his strengths and weaknesses? “I get a bit casual after a win, though that doesn’t backfire on me – I just get motivated for the next match. But after a loss, my confidence goes.” Yet the higher ranked his opponent, the more fun chess becomes for Prithu. As he is keen to remind you, “If you lose to someone with a higher rating, you end up playing a lower rated player.”
 
 Indeed, when Prithu achieved his first IM norm last July, in Serbia, all his nine challengers were rated higher than him (he was seeded 70th in a field of 90, but finished 16th).
 
 What sets Prithu apart is an ability to conscientiously balance chess with studies. He regularly tops his class and batch, and has won many a maths competition.
 
 “I catch up with my studies immediately after coming back from tournaments – I’m very good when it comes to mugging up!” And when it’s exam time, those 64 squares couldn’t be further away from his mind.
 
 At home, Prithu can often be seen focusing intently on his next move (on playchess.com), or live streaming a big event on his smartphone. Even his friends are chess players (including a couple of Norwegians and a Dutchman). “I find it really difficult to imagine life without chess!”
 
 
 
