 : The Madurai bench of the Madras high court has appointed a man as the   for his spouse who has been in a state of coma for five-and-a-half-years owing to ventricular tachycardia (a heart rhythm disorder caused by abnormal electrical signals in the lower chambers of the heart).

 To claim guardianship, Dr O B   needed to approach the civil court as there is no provision either under The Guardian and Wards Act or The Mental Health Care Act, but was saved the trouble and time by the high court on compassionate grounds. With the court’s decision, he can now manage the properties registered under his wife Dr R N Ranjini’s name. 
 
 On November 21, 2012, his wife had a sudden episode of ventricular tachycardia. He filed the case seeking to declare him the guardian of his wife and appoint him as the manager of her properties.
 
 Justice M S  , hearing the case, was satisfied after perusing medical records over her bedridden state and coma. The court also took into consideration that he has been settling the loans under her name and how the petitioner has been a support throughout for her. 
 
 The judge pointed out that there is no provision in law for appointing the husband as the guardian of his wife either in the Guardian and Wards Act or in the Mental Health Care Act. “As such, in the normal course, the remedy available to the petitioner would be under the jurisdiction of the Civil Court. Nevertheless, in view of the critical condition in which the petitioner's wife is undergoing and also taking note of the fact that the procedure for appointment of guardian might take a considerable time, it would be appropriate for the court to invoke the power conferred under Article 226 of the Constitution of India for the purpose of securing the ends of justice,” the judge said. 
 
 The judge added, “While the petitioner has been a support throughout for his wife, he would be the appropriate person to act as a guardian for her. In view of the fact that the petitioner has settled the housing loan standing in the name of his wife also and has been spending considerable amount for her treatment, it would be relevant to permit the petitioner to manage and deal with the properties of his wife including the powers to alienate the same and thus Dr Parameswaran is appointed as a guardian of his wife.”
 
 
