
 
  Niveditha’s mother   entered the house to speak with her daughter. As soon as   failed to do balance the pot, Hema was asked to leave the house.   received dresses as a special gift from her mother. Diwakar apologized o Niveditha for failing to do the task. She got emotional for not speaking with her mother. A special activity MTR cook of challenge was given to all contestants to prepare various dishes.   has to taste various dishes and give judgement.   Acharya gave his ear ring to Diwakar.
  
    in garden area discusses about the kind of girl he is searching for. Anupama expressed her views on kind of girl   is looking for. Anupama said when you are ready to marry to a home maker why you need an educated girl. She requests   to find a right match to talented Chandan Shetty. Sameer Acharya who was listening to Chandan and Anupama’s conversation says why can’t Anupama give a try. Even Diwakar endorses Sameer’s view by saying that Anupama is a right match to Chandan Shetty.
  The dishes prepared by   and Riyaz won appreciation from Anupama.   complained about over using tomatoes by Riyaz. Everyone starts making fun of Anupama regarding her relationship with Chandan. In the evening, Anupama’s father   entered the house and gave special letter to Anupama for the first time. She enquired about her mother and sister Teju. Riyaz said Bigg Boss gave the platform to resolve the differences with family members. When he tried to give the gift hamper Niveditha refused to take it.
  
  A new task simpalaag Vondu Thanks helu was given to contestants to convey thanks to the people who have helped them. Niveditha thanked her friends   and Shruti Gangadhar, Riyaz thanked her mother-in-law for giving her daughter, Shruti thanked   and Priya, Diwakar thanked his friend   for helping during her mother’s demise, Sameer thanked people who have voted him, Chandan Shetty thanked   for helping him during his depression stage, J Karthik thanked a couple without mentioning their name who gave the opportunity to act in Ashwini Nakshatra, Anupama thanked   S N for helping her in difficult situations.
