SRIKAKULAM: Actor-turned-politician   ended his 24-hour-long   over Uddanam kidney issue at the government's arts college grounds here on Saturday.

 Kalyan began the protest on Friday evening at 5 in a private resort at Etcherla, 10 kms away from Srikakulam town, where he stayed as part of his on-going Jana Sena Porata Yatra in the district in the last one week.
 
 A 10-year-old boy Rapaka Siddhartha, grandson of Rapaka Rao from Palasa in the district, who died off kidney disease during the earlier Kalyan's Porata Yatra at Palasa, provided a glass of lime juice at 5 pm to   to declare the end of the protest.
 
 Addressing the gathering after taking the juice, Kalyan said that he took up the hunger protest when the state government did not respond to his 48 hour deadline to a list of 17 demands on the Kidney issues during his Porata Yatra three days ago at Palasa. 
 
 Kalyan said that he demanded the state government to find a suitable solution to the kidney disease in Uddanam region, but no response came.
 
 Kalyan reiterated that he did not take the hunger protest to gain political mileage, but to render justice to a social problem which is haunting this Uddanam people for last one and half decade.
 
 Kalyan said that chief minister   had spent Rs 2,000 crores for   of river Godavari and Krishna in the state so far, but was reluctant to spend money on the solutions to the kidney disease and the victims in the district wherein nearly 20,000-odd people are suffering from kidney failures.
 
 Kalyan suggested to the chief minister to use the corporate social responsibility scheme to help the kidney victims here if the government is not able to spend on its own.
 
 Kalyan said people in movies, who can show solutions within two and half hours, are not real heroes. The people who stand up to the issues and solve the problems at a satisfactory level are real heroes.
 
 Kalyan said that the people of the state are suffering due to internal clashes between   and BJP, both cheated the state people not according special category status to Andhra Pradesh. Both BJP and TDP should keep the welfare of the people in mind.
 
 
