PUNE: An attempt to cheat a UPSC aspirant of Rs22,000 came to a dramatic end in   on Thursday. 

 When two men tried to flee after “selling”   (25) a piece of glass instead of a used smartphone, he immediately chased them down. 
 
 A 20-minute chase — first on two-wheelers and then on foot — finally came to an end after Swargate police marshals   and Suhas Chirme nabbed the duo. “All credit goes to Purohit who showed courage and chased the duo for about 20 minutes,” said assistant inspector Prakash More of Swargate police.
 
 On Wednesday, Purohit, preparing for UPSC, was browsing on his smartphone when he “came across an advertisement of a used smartphone on sale for Rs26,500”.
 
 He contacted the seller, who said he would sell the phone for Rs25,000. “The person asked me to come near Swargate around 10am on Thursday,” he said.
 
 Purohit went near   theatre and met two men — Ikhlaque Qureshi (30) and   (23) of Uttar Pradesh. “I checked the smart phone. They also showed me a bill with the IMEI number,” Purohit said. He decided to buy the phone. “They told me they were in hurry to go to Mumbai and would sell the phone for Rs22,000,” Purohit said.
 
 Purohit withdrew money from an ATM and paid them. “I took the pouch containing smartphone. I did not suspect anything at first as I saw the man put the phone in the pouch,” Purohit said.
 
 The duo left on their scooter. When Purohit tried to open the pouch, he found it glued shut. “I became suspicious and gave chase on my scooter,” he said.
 
 On seeing him, the duo accelerated towards Dais plot slums. “I kept raising an alarm,” he said. The duo tried to ride on the wrong side at the Dhole-Patil chowk signal, hit the median and took a tumble. They ran in different directions, but were nabbed by the police marshals. Purohit ripped open the pouch and found a piece of glass cut in the shape of a smartphone.
 
 According to the police, the duo came to Pune three days ago and stayed at a lodge in the Peth areas. Cops suspect others were cheated similarly, as they found several similarly-cut pieces of glass inside the room. “Our probe is on,” More said.
 
 
