BENGALURU:  , who suffered four stab injuries, underwent multiple surgeries in a three-and-a-half hour procedure. He was stabbed on his chest, abdomen, hand and thighs. Doctors at   pronounced him stable in the evening.

 Speaking to reporters, Dr Divakar Bhat, chief cardio vascular surgeon,   Hospital said Justice Shetty underwent surgeries in four areas. A team of doctors immediately administered cardio pulmonary resuscitation (CPR) to revive and streamline cardiac functioning.
 
 “He was brought in a 2pm,” Dr Bhat said. “One of the more serious stab wounds was in the abdomen region where there was excessive bleeding. The situation was critical and he has now been brought under control and is stable. He underwent multiple surgeries between 2.30pm and 6pm. He is currently in the cardiac care unit (CCU).”
 
 Justice Shetty was also on blood thinning medication following a cardiac surgery sometime ago. “He had suffered internal bleeding,” hospital authorities said. “We did a procedure called intercoastal drains (ICD) to remove blood accumulated in the chest. He also underwent a surgery for tendon repair in the hand. A cardiovascular surgeon, a general surgeon and a plastic surgeon operated on him.”
 
 Justice Shetty’s sons, one a senior counsel, Shashikiran Shetty, in Karnataka high court and the other a cardiothoracic surgeon, Dr Ravishankar Shetty, were not available for comment.
 
 
 
 
 Dr Ravishankar Shetty was in an operation theatre conducting a life-saving procedure on a six-year-old girl with cardiac problems at M S Ramaiah hospital when he heard about the attack on his father. But he continued with the surgery and headed out to see his father only after he completed his surgery.
 
 “Sadashiva Nagar police had come to M S Ramaiah hospital to take him to Mallya hospital where his father is being treated. He was taken in a Hoysala vehicle,” authorities at Ramaiah hospital said. 
 
 
 
 
 Constables HP Akram and RM Raghu attached to Upparpet police station donated 1,000 ml of blood to Lokayukta Shetty. “We received a communication on the wireless saying doctors urgently needed blood of any group. We asked our constables, who were deployed near the hospital, whether they can donate. They happily agreed,” said a senior police officer. 
 
 
