NEW DELHI: Former India batsman and captain   believes the solution to India’s Playing XI revolves around making   keep wickets, a move which in turn can allow Virat Kohli to have an extra batsman in  , while also securing a place of  . India, who have already lost the series 0-2 will play to avert a whitewash when they take on South Africa in the third Test at the Wanderers on Wednesday.

 
 
  
 
 
 Gavaskar said that so far playing five batsmen has not yielded great results, and with regular wicketkeeper Wriddhiman Saha out with injury and his replacement   not doing much to impress in Centurion, the first person to score 10000 runs in Test cricket feels having Rahul behind the stumps will give India the advantage of going in with six batsmen. Rahul has kept wickets for his IPL franchise Royal Challengers Bangalore in the past and has even put on keeping gloves on occasions for India in T20Is.
 
 ALSO READ: 
 
 “Clearly, going into an overseas Test series with just five batsmen has not worked. Since South Africa are thinking in terms of going in with an all-pace attack, it might make sense for India to go in with Rahane and have Rahul keep wickets,” Gavaskar wrote in his column for TOI. “It is a big risk but then Dinesh Karthik has not kept wickets for Tamil Nadu in every game last season. India may look to leave out Ashwin and bring in another new-ball bowler, with Pandya being the fifth bowler.”
 
 The series already lost, Gavaskar reckons Indian batsmen would need to show better temperament at the Bullring. In both Tests that India lost, the Indian batsmen lost their bearing while chasing in the second innings and that is one area Gavaskar reckons will need improvement.
 
 “First things first; this Indian team has always played for the pride of representing India and given everything on the field. There is no doubting their skill levels. However, it is in the ‘temperament’ area that their batsmen have floundered and surrendered whatever advantage their bowlers gave them,” Gavaskar said. “The bowlers have bowled their hearts out, but again the fielding support has not always been as good as it should have been. That has allowed the lower order of the South African line-up to have those baby partnerships that have given the Proteas crucial extra runs. 
 
 “The pitches have not always been good for batting, with the one in Cape Town being one where even batsmen like Kohli and de Villiers never knew which ball would have their number on it. Even in Centurion, the pitch on the last two days was an up-and-down one, so chasing 250 was not going to be easy as it turned out.
 
 So what now for the final Test? It is not called the ‘Bullring’ without a reason, for this is supposed to be the fastest and bounciest pitch in South Africa. The crowd can be brutally vocal against the visiting team. It is India’s batting which has not come to the party, apart from that magnificent century from skipper Kohli, so that needs strengthening.”
 
 ASLO READ: 
 
 
