NAGPUR: Thin-looking Dilip   creates plethora of sports equipment needed in schools, colleges and akhadas. He lives in   in  , and has a small workspace just outside his house. But unique to his body of work are harmless weapons he creates, which belong to   Maharaj’s reign – khanda, khanjar, dandpatta, bhaala, dhal, you name it. He is the only one in the city to continue the Chhatrapati’s legacy through his craftsmanship, even as the world will be celebrating Shivaji Maharaj’s 388th birth anniversary on Monday (February 19).

 Shastrakar, 53, makes these weapons for the sword wielding and defense training. These weapons go to akhadas in Pardi, Indora, Deekshabhoomi, Sakkardara and other places. He doesn’t take orders of these weapons from anyone outside his circle of trusted clients. “What if they misuse it by sharpening the blades?” he says. He goes on to recall his days of sword practice, dand-baithak (push ups and squats) and more with 13th descendant of Shivaji Maharaj Sambhaji Raje Bonsale and other batchmates such as school principal   and swimming trainer  .
 
 At the age of 15, these friends once told him, “Why don’t you start making these weapons so that others too may get to experience the Shivaji era implements of war?” Shastrakar agreed, and has been in the business ever since. He brought books, studied, and researched on the techniques and dimensions. “During the rule of Raghuji Raje Bhonsale III, this sport was encouraged and was practiced full-fledged. But it was banned a couple of times. Now the interest is reviving in such sports. If we imbibe Shivaji’s teachings, the sorry state of affairs will improve. There won’t be any instances of rape or harassment of women.”
 
 However, Shastrakar admits it’s impossible to make a living out of weapons itself. “That’s why the sport equipment. Making these weapons takes more time compared to other things, but it is my contribution to keep the legacy alive. That’s the only way I’ve been able to do charity,” he says.
 
 Shastrakar wants girls and boys alike to be able to defend themselves and not fear anyone. However, students in physical colleges come only during exams, and no active involvement is seen in the teachers either, he laments. “They are even unable to perform ‘savdhan’ and ‘vishram’ correctly. But there is a definite increase in the number of people practising Shivaji’s weaponry and the government seems to be supporting it,” he says.
 
 
