GURUGRAM: Union minister and Gurugram MP   said on Friday Prime Minister   will lay the foundation stone for the development of   into a national highway.

 This project can, however, only start when the expressway itself is completed by Huda, the Haryana government’s urban development agency. Because of a maze of litigation, the road is running a decade behind its scheduled completion date. And with cases still in court, and the Delhi portion of the expressway as well as its connection with NH-8 in Gurugram still to be built, Huda is in no position to say when it can complete the road.
 
 The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) has made it clear it will not start construction till it gets land from Huda. “Until Huda provides the land, we will not start construction work,” said Udeep Singhal, project director (NHAI) for the Dwarka e-way.
 
 The total length of the Dwarka Expressway is 29 km, of which 18.9 km is in Haryana. The The NHAI officially granted the expressway national highway status last year. But that has had no impact on the pace of construction of the road, which is still stuck in several stretches because of legal cases. Thousands of homebuyers who have invested in sectors along the Dwarka Expressway have sent multiple petitions to various forums to complete the expressway, which currently is not connected to main roads at either end.
 
 Prime Minister Modi is expected to inaugurate the widened and revamped NH24 (now christened Delhi-Meerut Expressway) soon. The MP did not say if the   would officially   the Dwarka Expressway makeover around the same time, but assured it would be “very soon”.
 
 “I had a meeting with minister for road transport and highways Nitin Gadkari recently in which it was decided PM Modi will come to Gurugram to lay the foundation stone of this (Dwarka Expressway) project very soon and also address a public gathering. The date is yet to be finalized. We are looking for a place where this event can be held. There are some land issues that need to be resolved... Once the construction work begins, the entire project will get over in two years’ time,” said Singh.
 
 The NHAI’s Dwarka Expressway project involves construction of an eight-lane elevated carriageway measuring 23.12 km, underpasses on crossroads at 10 locations, and four interchanges at Shiv Murti, SPR junction, the proposed exhibition-cum-covention centre in Dwarka Sector 25 and Manesar road (sector 84, 88 dividing road). The funding of this project will come from Bharat Mala Pariyojana (BMP) under the National Corridor Efficiency Improvement Programme.
 
 
