NAGPUR: The students and staff of   at Bajaj Nagar were inconvenienced after a private contractor started digging a stretch along the newly laid cement concrete road in front of the college on Saturday morning allegedly without following norms. 

 The digging work threatened to block the institute’s main gate and the noise created by the drill made conducting classes difficult. The work was stopped for some time following objection by principal   but resumed in the afternoon after the contractor assured to not dig the portion in front of the main gate.
 
  The contractor is laying cables for   (RJIL) for which the interlocking blocks in front of the college have been removed.
 
  Menacherry said over 150 students and faculty members were in the college when the work started but the contractor didn’t bother to inform us.
 
  “Initially, contractor even refused to show a copy of permission and   from the  . He stopped the work only after I threatened to file a police complaint. He then assured me of digging only one side to avoid blocking the gate. No issues now,” Menacherry said. “Such digging work is going on at many places on newly-built cement roads. Can’t understand why they are not using a conduit or did it before,” he said.
 
  Laxmi Nagar zone assistant commissioner Suvarna Dakhane referred TOI queries to NMC hot mix department. An official from the department said permission has been given to RJIL but they needed to confirm if NOC was given for Bajaj Nagar area.
 
  A RJIL spokesperson said they have all the permissions to carry out the work and the institute has been told that the work will be done in one day and the road would be restored. “The duct is not visible in the night and digging work is not allowed as per norms in the night,” he said.
 
  Menacherry said if it’s one-day job, the contractor could have done it on Sunday or Monday as it’s holiday for the college on both the days.
 
 Though RJIL spokesperson claimed to have obtained permission for the work, the site has no board mentioning details of the work along with a copy of the NOC.
 
