AHMEDABAD: How many warnings the state government need to enact the Action Plan for Control of Air Pollution in Ahmedabad (APCAPA)? The plan is ready and awaiting approval from the chief secretary’s office and the   for the last three months, claim highly placed sources in the state environment and forest department. The plan, prepared by participation of multiple agencies like the district collectorate, municipal corporation, GPCB, RTO, civil supplies and other government departments, that was in draft form since June 2017, was readied in February this year. 

 On Thursday and on Saturday, Ahmedabad’s overall air quality index (AQI) was rated ‘very poor’, worst than Delhi’s AQI.
 
 The APCAPA plan includes making Ahmedabad and Gandhinagar kerosene free. Focus is on increasing the number of public transport buses and ensuring that all buses run on CNG. The transport department is entrusted with the responsibility to cancel registrations of commercial vehicles older than 15 years and provide financial assistance for the purchase of commercial vehicles that run on electric or CNG. 
 
 ‘Very poor’ AQI is a warning to citizens and the government that any delay in the implementation of the APCAPA will cost 65 lakh Amdavadis dear.
 
 In April this year, the Union environment and forest ministry had released a draft of the   (NCAP). The main goal of   is “to meet the prescribed annual average ambient air quality standards at all locations in the country in a stipulated time frame”. Given the state of air quality in Ahmedabad, any initiative by the Union or state government is an urgent need. 
 
 In December last year, some members of the APCAPA had wanted a regional plan air action plan for Ahmedabad to incorporate emissions from neighbouring talukas and districts. Also a policy to integrate data from air monitoring stations installed by different agencies — GPCB, CPCB, Ahmedabad Municipal Corporation (AMC) — was also mooted. 
 
 Such integration and coordinated effort was required to formulate an action plan that takes care of enforcement of existing air pollution laws.
 
  
  
 
