KOTTAYAM: If the flurry of Whatsapp conversations between stakeholders in the tourism industry is to be taken as bellwether, the sector is facing threat of cancellations, because of Nipa virus deaths in Kozhikode. The tourism sector, which was happily nearing the end of the summer vacation and getting ready to welcome monsoon guests, has been shocked by cancellations in the last two days. A significant casualty is the popular Kochi-Munnar-Thekkady-Kumarakom package.

 
 Sreekumar, a tour operator in Kumarakom, said around five tour package bookings have been cancelled since Wednesday. In one case, the guest had already paid an advance of Rs 1.25 lakh. “Usually, end of May is hectic and we used to reject new guests. But now, many are either cancelling or postponing their trips,” he said.
 
 "We get bookings from the Middle East after Ramzan. But now countries like Oman have issued travel advisories against travelling to Kerala," he added.
 
 Salim Das, president of Chamber of Vembanad Hotels and Resorts said he failed to convince three tourists who cancelled bookings in his resort. He finds relief in the fact that since it is almost the end of the vacation, it won’t be a big setback. “The government should instil confidence in the tourists through effective campaigns,” he said.
 
 Senthil, a tour operator in Munnar, said that he is even scared to discuss the topic. Tourism stakeholders are resorting to campaigning through social media to assure tourists that the situation is normal. V V George, president of Munnar Hotels and Resorts Association, acknowledged drop in the arrival of tourists in the last couple of days. “The association will be holding a meeting on Friday to take stock of the situation,” he said.  , resort owner in Thekkady and member of Thekkady Destination Promotion council, said that if the virus attack is not contained, the situation could get out of control,” he said.
 
 The tourism department, according to director P Bala Kiran, is already widely circulating the health advisory issued by the health department, stating that travelling to any part of the state is safe. V Venu, the former tourism principal secretary and currently in-charge of forest department, said in a Whatsapp post that a low-key effort on social media by genuine travellers would be ideal.
 
 “If each hotelier or tour operator convinces one guest to post on Twitter, Instagram or  , which then is forwarded with appropriate hashtags, it will create a positive wave in social media,” he said.
 
 Meanwhile, Puducherry-based Jipmer on Thursday advised its doctors, staff and students to avoid visiting Kozhikode, Malappuram, Kannur and Wayanad in Kerala, and Mahe.
 
