MUMBAI: Plans to reschedule a   organised by residents of IC Colony, a predominantly Christian enclave in  , were jettisoned on Monday in the face of restrictions by the local  .

 Irate residents who vented their anger on social media, described the action as moral policing. Apart from being a decades-old tradition, the event is known as the only other carnival in India barring the one in Goa. Its highlight is a parade of floats to the accompaniment of music, food and dancing.
 
 Held every year before the liturgical season of Lent, which begins on Wednesday, this time it ran into trouble when police insisted on lower decibel levels and cancellation of a DJ-led show.
  
  
 A letter signed by senior inspector Ashok Jadhav of MHB police station was handed over to the organisers at 8pm on Monday. He had rejected their choice of venue, YMCA Ground, and instead stipulated an open space owned by a private builder. The letter also urged the organisers to keep loudspeaker levels within the permissible 55dB or face action. On Saturday, police had laid down conditions for granting permission which included limiting participation at the event to 500 guests and changing the venue. This had forced the organisers to reschedule Sunday’s festivities for Tuesday .
 
 However, on Monday the organisers decided to cancel the event as it was difficult to make alternative arrangements. After the fiasco, angry residents said they would approach the police commissioner to voice their grievances.
 
 Former corporator Abhishek Ghosalkar, who was backing the event, pointed out that a march was being organized on March 4 as part of a Dahisar river clean-up drive, which chief minister   will attend. The event falls under the same MHB police station. “The CM’s wife, Amruta, will perform a song. We are keen to see if the police station will apply the same strict norms to that high-profile programme,” Ghosalkar said.
 
 Ghosalkar said, “We were told to visit the police station at noon on Monday. When we reached, we learnt the officer concerned was away. He rang up in the afternoon and instructed us to come at 7pm to collect the letter of permission. Even if we did get the green signal at that hour, it would be impossible to organise the logistics of such a large event. Thousands of people attend the IC Carnival."
 
 Organiser Randell Pereira of the IC Colony Forum also said permission was granted too late for arrangements to be made.
 
 DCP Vikram Deshmane and Jadhav confirmed that permission had been denied for a   at the carnival.
 
 
