HYDERABAD: A 12-year-old newspaper delivery boy died after he got stuck in a narrow gap between two doors of a lift at a three-storied residential building at   on Wednesday morning. The boy took the lift to deliver newspaper on the third floor and returned to the ground floor when the incident happened.

 
  
  
 
 Around 7am, Suri Venu, a resident of   and a Class 3 student, went to deliver newspaper at the building of   at Kachiguda. He had taken up the part-time job with hawker Prakash two months ago, Kachiguda police said.
 
 The boy entered the building, took the lift, went to the third floor and delivered the daily. He returned to the ground floor, came out of the lift (car) and closed the internal grill door, while keeping the external door ajar, police said.
 
 “The lift has two doors, a door on the outside and a grill shutter inside. There is a small gap between the grill and the outside door. After closing the grill, the boy came out. Suddenly, he turned back and wanted to enter the lift again by attempting to open the internal grill. By then, the lift started moving up and he got stuck in the gap between the doors,’’ Kachiguda inspector   told 
 .
 
 Police suspect the boy, who came out of the lift , might have hit some button on the panel of the lift before he exited it. As a result, the moment he closed the grill door, the lift started moving up and the boy was stuck in the gap between the doors. “At the time of the mishap, when we verified, it was found that no other person in the upper floors attempted to use the lift. So, probably the boy might have pressed the button of upper floors before exiting the lift,” police said.
 
 Police said the lift (car) also stopped after ascending a few feet, while the boy was stuck in the gap. It is suspected that he suffered internal injuries, while the PME report is awaited.
 
 During investigation, police verified   footage located near the mishap site, which showed the boy exiting the lift, closing the door and later trying to enter it again. However, there was no CCTV footage inside the lift. It took nearly an hour for people to extricate the boy. Around 8am, he was rushed to  , where he was declared brought dead.
 
 As of now, a case was registered under Section 174 (suspicious death) of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) and the Juvenile Justice Act against hawker Prakash, who employed Venu by promising him a salary of Rs 1,000 a month.
 
