Nagpur: After facing criticism from AICTE (All India Council for Technical Education) for not submitting its perspective plan for new colleges, Maharashtra government recently wrote to the Council requesting no permission be granted to any new degree or diploma engineering colleges.

 Issued by deputy secretary SJ Tidke, the letter cited growing vacancies in both types of colleges in last three years or so. Addressed to chairman Anil Sahasrabuddhe, the government letter pointed out that even the Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Technological University (BATU) set up by the government in Lonere, Raigad, for technical education had recommended there was no need of new engineering institutes in state for academic year 2018-19.
 
 “Considering the vacancies in diploma/degree programmes and recommendations of BATU and Maharashtra State Board of Technical Education (MSBTE), Mumbai, you are kindly requested not to grant approval for starting any new colleges for both courses in Maharashtra,” the letter stated.
 
 Additional chief secretary Sitaram Kunte told TOI, there was a big disparity in the demand and supply which had led to big rise in vacancies in both courses. He blamed the trend of colleges mushrooming without taking this factor into consideration on the apex body.
 
 “As per earlier rules, universities used to have their perspective plans for colleges. However, AICTE took to granting colleges directly without permission from state or university. They made it mandatory for states and universities to grant affiliation to such institutes. Their stand was vindicated by the court, which led to a jump in numbers.”
 
 He added that BATU was established as a single engineering university for all degree colleges in state and it was made mandatory for new institutes to seek its affiliation. “Over 70 colleges are affiliated to it so far. Eventually it would be a common university for all enigneering colleges. Its perspective plan submitted to the government said no more colleges in both disciplines were needed for forthcoming academic year in view of vacancies. Its recommendations are made after conducting proper scientific study taking into consideration the demand and supply,” Kunte added.
 
 Referring to Directorate of Technical Education (DTE) letter, Tidke stated that in the last three academic years, the vacancies in degree courses were 42%, 44.78% and 40.87%. Those in diploma courses too have consistently increased from 48.34% to 55.94% to 56.64% in the same period.
 
 While speaking to TOI in December, Sahasrabuddhe had pulled up Maharashtra government for failure to submit its perspective plan despite many requests. He also informed that the AICTE had decided to come up with a ‘National Perspective Plan’ that would inform about requirements of professional colleges across the country.
 
 An RTI query by activist Abhay Kolarkar revealed that in 2014-15 academic year, 67,004 BE seats couldn’t be filled. The number was 64,625 in 2015-16. In 2016-17, there was a reduction in intake capacity but it still saw 44.78% vacancies. There were two less colleges and number of seats went down by over 10,000 but still 64,418 seats remained vacant.
 
 
