HYDERABAD: The east-west gas pipeline from Kakinada ( ) to Bharuch (Gujarat) will be tapped for providing compressed natural gas and piped natural gas to four more geographical areas (GAs) in Telangana. The Petroleum and Natural Gas Regulatory Board during its interaction in January, 2018, with various state governments has come out with proposals for city gas distribution (CGD) with ₹600 crore investment in erstwhile Rangareddy, Medak, Khammam and Nalgonda districts. The pipeline will supply natural gas to domestic, commercial, industrial and automobile consumers in the four geographical areas.

 The 1,440-km Kakinada-Bharuch trunk line, owned by Reliance Gas Transportation Infrastructure (RGTIL), passes through Telangana from Andhra to Gujarat. It carries natural gas from KG-D6 fields of the   basin of AP.
 
 As part of the plan for extending the CGD network in 146 geographical areas or districts by PNGRB, the Telangana project has been proposed. The construction of a dedicated gas pipeline to Ramagundam is already in progress.
 
  
 According to PNGRB, around 1,652 jobs would be generated. Ramagundam Fertilizers and Chemicals Limited would also be supplied gas through the network.
 
 RFCL is being revived jointly by the National Fertilizers Limited and Engineers India Limited at a cost of ₹5,600 crore. Telangana government has 11% share in the project. The government has allotted 0.55 tmc ft of water to the project from Sripada Yellampalli Project.
 
 PNGRB authorises various entries for development of CGD networks based on competitive bidding process under the provision of PNGRB Local Natural Gas Distribution Regulations of 2008.
 
 As part of the smart cities project, Visakhapatnam, Tirupati in Andhra and Greater Warangal in Telangana have also been identified for CGD.
 
 In future, Karimnagar and Adilabad might be identified as potential areas as part of the Mallavaram-Bhopal-Bhilwara-Vijaipur pipeline being executed by GSPL India Transco Limited. Srikakulam, Vizianagaram and Visakhapatnam might be connected with the Kakinada-Srikakulam line by   and Chittoor and Nellore with the Nellore-Ennore pipeline by Gas Transmission India Private Limited.
 
 
