NAGPUR: When it comes to nuclear energy, people have apprehensions and contrary views about its usage, said scientist Abhay Patwardhan. To mark National Science Day, an   at   For Exploration and Research (AMD) was held on Tuesday on it premises in Civil Lines.

 The exhibition introduced students to the functions and processes performed by the department of   for the purpose of extracting uranium deposits. Nuclear power plants run on uranium fuel. Along with display of banners, the scientists at AMD simplified the work for the benefit of the students.
 
 Information was given on nuclear energy as a clean and environment-friendly energy source, along with India’s three-stage nuclear programme.
 
 The exhibition began with demonstration about the first stage of exploration, which involves conducting a survey in order to demarcate favourable place for mining of uranium, and further reduce the area by way of satellite images. The magnetic content is then measured using a helicopter, called as heliborne survey, and signals are received. The area is then validated for presence of deposits and the concentration of uranium there.
 
 Several unique pieces of rock were displayed to explain rare metal and rare earth investigations, another subject which AMD works on. Models of machines, instruments and a view of the mining site were also visually informative.
 
 Banners showed comparison of electricity generation plants in order to prove statistically that nuclear energy can give more output with less energy, as compared to coal or water. They also explained the concept of geophysics, which involves application of physical theories and measurements to discover properties of the earth.
 
 Geophysics is based on the variation in physical properties of rocks and minerals, and the exhibition further explained its sub-types.
 
 The scientists explained the techniques used for identification of radioactive minerals, chemical analysis of geo-material and radio-matric techniques in uranium exploration.
 
 The one-day exhibition saw participation from over 15 schools, where the students participated in different activities such as poetry, drawing, quiz and model making competitions.
 
 Similar event was also conducted at AMD’s branches in Odisha and  . The prize distribution ceremony for the events will be held at 11am on Wednesday. N Srinivasan, AMD’s central region director, and  , deputy regional director, as well as their team members, hosted the event on behalf of AMD.
 
 
