HYDERABAD: Punching holes in the tall claims of the   about curbing C-section deliveries and related maternal mortality, the latest report of the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) has revealed that the state has miserably failed on this front. Pointing out how the government has been unable to “discourage higher incidences of C-section deliveries in private institutions”, the report has observed that that 45 per cent of all deliveries are caesarian.

 This, it states, points to poor care provided to pregnant women in the state. “As per data from   (SHS), C-section deliveries increased from 33 per cent (2013-14) to 45 per cent in (2016-17). This indicated the ineffective antenatal care provided in the state which resulted in an increase in C-section deliveries. It was further observed that C-section deliveries at private institutions were on higher side (67 per cent) as compared to those at public health facility centres (33 per cent),” the report read.
 
 Highlighting the shortage of gynaecologists, anaesthetists and general surgeons in public health facilities, the report stated that it was reasons like these that forced people to go to private health facilities for C-section deliveries.
 
 Meanwhile, institutional deliveries (that take place at an institution and are assisted by a skilled attendant) have seen a decline in public health facilities pushing more people towards private hospitals, the report upheld. “The institutional deliveries in public health facilities saw a decline from 69 per cent (2013-14) to 42 per cent (2016-17) as compared to deliveries in private health facilities which registered an increase from 31 to 58 per cent. Quality of health care was not given adequate attention thereby forcing the patients to go to private institutions for treatment,” read the CAG report.
 
 It further pointed to a very high   (MMR) in tribal districts of Adilabad, Khammam and   at 152, 99 and 98 respectively as against the state’s average of 92 per one lakh live births.
 
