GURUGRAM: The first screenings of Sanjay Leela Bhansali’s ‘Padmaavat’ on Wednesday evening drew healthy crowds to city multiplexes with some shows sold out and most others over 50% booked. 

 Among the moviegoers, there was anger and irritation in equal measure, that the antics of lumpen elements can hold cities and towns to ransom. But despite the tense build-up, and an atmosphere of menace, most shows in the city saw a good turnout. “We are still going watch it,” said Ravi Kumar, echoing a common sentiment.
 
 Nidhi Sharma, among the many who watched the film, said the threats were unlikely to scare off folks. And for some, the gamble was worth it. Said Divya Rawat, “I took the risk because I have wanted to watch the movie for a very long time.”
 
 Madhur Garg said it was important not to give in to thuggery. “If we have 100 protesters, there are 100 ready to watch the film, too. If we get scared and back off so easy, these people will be further motivated.”
 
 According to Dr Deepak Parimoo, watching a movie has become an act of resistance. “Part of my reason to watch the movie was to defy these people,” he said.
 
 Prashant, 25, said there was no justification for the violence. “The ones protesting should come out and watch the film. If there is something hurting their sentiments, they should go about it in a lawful way and let the courts decide,” he said.
 
 Very few of the filmgoers TOI spoke to voiced concerns over safety. Indeed, they were happy with the security arrangements outside movie  . “Before coming here, there were some concerns. (But) I feel safe right now,” shared Saurav.
 
 “We feel safe – there have been multiple checks, more than the usual,” said Prashant.
 
 A family of 19 members, spread across three generations, had come to watch ‘Padmaavat’. It’s a shame, they all agreed, that in a democracy so much drama is being created over a film. “Why can’t they just let the movie be released in peace? They have to make peace with history the way it is,” said Anju Caprihan. Her granddaughter Manya Kalra, 18, longed for the day when India would be more accommodating of artistes and their beliefs. “In India, people take offence very easily,” she lamented. 
 
 Saurav spoke for many when he said, “We are only cinema lovers and we just want to come and watch the movie.”
 
 
