
  
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 The financial model of the university is not something that I have created. It has just evolved with the university’s evolution. The university had no financial plan. This is what I have told to the court. I am being told that I always talk about the history. You are not allowing me to run the university by virtue of your experience. Instead of showing me the way to run the university, they are creating hurdles in my way by complaining to Delhi that loot and plunder is going on in the university. Who is carrying out this loot? Vijay Chopra, Divyanshu Buddhiraja of ABVP and NSUI. Those affiliated to these parties are the ones who are filing complaints against the university. They are doing this by seeking help of the disgruntled professors of the university. After a student party alleged financial irregularities, I had to go in-depth to enquire how the university works financially. There are financial rules set by the government, but the university has an independent accounts manual, which was formed in 1960. This has been revised twice, once in 1990s and then again in 2012. So, we have all the procedures. The system of filing annual report was started by AC Joshi. So, whatever happened, the record of it, is available in the university library. So, we have tried to shape a financial model.
 
 
 
 
 I have submitted the governance reforms to the court. The issue is that every senator is allowed to become member of the four faculties. In every faculty, 3/4th of the members do not know about that faculty, since one person holds specialisation in one faculty only. So, if you are a member of three other faculties besides the one you hold specialisation in, it implies that each faculty has only 1/4th of people who hold specialisation in that faculty. If you want to be a senator again and again, you play the game of the choice of faculty. This is the business that goes on here. I have proposed changes and this is what I have tabulated and submitted to the court. 
 
 
 
 
 It was all planned. Two days before April 11, when the student leader Nishant Kaushal took a delegation to the governor’s house, he did not have even 20 people with him. So, how did after two days, those 20 transform to 250 stones-carrying people? This was a well thought-out and well-executed plan. It was being said that the dean university instructions (DUI) did not come out to talk to the students that day. But, this cannot be an excuse behind throwing stones? I convened so many meetings with the students and held dialogue so many times and hence, do not see this as a failure.
 
 
 
 
 Those who are determined to do something wrong cannot be stopped. I do not want to name them as you know them already.
 
 The university became number 1 in the country in the Asia rankings in 2015. But after that, it saw a significant drop in its position. What is the reason for this? 
 
 The university’s parameter has not changed much, since it was ranked number 1. It was number 1, when the   was very high. It was high because the university was a part of the CERN lab’s, Fermilab’s experiments and the university has been doing this from the last 50 years. When we became number 1, all the other universities created the hue and cry that our university is also doing great, how can Panjab University be number 1? And there were lot of complaints that these experiments are not happening just because of PU. So, they said that they will not count these citations from next time and that is when the university’s score, which was between 200 and 300, slipped to 500 and 600 slab. During my term, the university has improved only. It’s only the change in the criterion. 
 
 After your term expires this year, how would it be made sure that the Chandigarh Region Innovation and Knowledge Cluster (CRIKC) survives? Do you think others associated with the CRIKC would ensure its proper functioning?
 
 CRIKC has already been adopted by the government of India. They have asked for creation of 10 such clusters and the department of science and technology (DST) has set up a centre for policy research (CPR) in PU, which would be the nodal agency for this cluster. It has been adopted by nation and there is no way it will collapse. It would collapse only if the DST disowns this scheme, but they will disown it only if the scheme fails. This will continue.
 
 
 
 
 Right now, university’s financial well-being is a stagnant matter. The university will improve only when the student-teacher ratio improves. It will improve if it is allowed to recruit more people. It is still running in a stagnant way. The greatest challenge before my successor is to find out how to progress and how to build on this. New teachers should come in. The entire faculty of the university should be regular so that they can bring research funds to the university.
 
 
 
 
 I have sold my house in Mumbai. I have built a house for myself in Sector 16, Chandigarh. I am a member of the   and will work for the university through that window. I was appointed for a period of three years. The chancellor gave me another term. I never asked for another term. Since, I was given that term, well before my term concluded, I started facing these problems. One complaint after another. I am 66-year-old. I have lived my life as a scientist upto the age of 60, which is the mandatory age of retirement. My parent institute gave me five years of extension and that extension was also over on December 31, 2016. Now, I am a pensioner of my parent institution. Not many people get a chance to be a VC of the same institution where they graduated from. I got that rare chance. I have done whatever I could. I am a very satisfied man.
 
 
