Nagpur: Residents of SNDL area are going to suffer in the coming years as Maharashtra State Electricity Distribution Co Ltd (MSEDCL) head office has refused to sanction the entire amount sought by the franchisee for power infrastructure upgrade.

 The franchisee had sought Rs 232 crore for its three divisions under centrally-funded Integrated Power Development Scheme (IPDS). Against this, only Rs 56 crore has been ayed. On the other hand, MSEDCL has sanctioned Rs 134 crore for its one division in the city.
 
 Demand of electricity is growing every day in the city. This puts a burden on the existing power infrastructure and hence its augmentation is a must. Lack of upgrade leads to frequent breakdowns and voltage fluctuations, especially during peak summer.
 
 Commenting on the lower sanction, MSEDCL spokesperson said, “These are central government funds and SNDL is supposed to invest its own money in the three divisions. We had given it Rs 60 crore in first five years for infrastructure augmentation.”
 
 The problem with this approach is that there is no compulsion on SNDL to invest the remaining Rs176 crore from its own pocket. Going by the past trends, SNDL is unlikely to invest this much in the franchisee area. The company is yet to break even after seven years and is reluctant to spend money in the city.
 
 Commenting on the paltry allocation, an SNDL official said on the condition of anonymity, “The decision of MSEDCL defies logic. We were verbally told that the IPDS funds would have to be repaid by us in annual instalments. What was the problem is sanctioning the plan submitted by us in toto.”
 
 MSEDCL’s policies regarding franchisees is contradictory. On the one hand it does not want to help the existing franchisees and on the other hand it has decided to appoint four new ones.
 
 SNDL wanted to construct 11 new substations and renovate 5 substations in its area under IPDS. It planned to install two additional power transformers in the existing substations. Laying underground 33 KV cable of over 205 km and 84 km of underground 11 KV cable was also planned.
 
 The length of 11 KV overhead cables was 69 km. The number of 100 KVA and 200 KVA distribution transformers proposed under IPDS was 170 while the number of 25 KVA transformers was 1,000. Some 11,500 new energy meters were to be installed. Besides these, several more equipment and works were proposed.
 
 MSEDCL is setting up two new substations in Congress Nagar division. It is laying 62 km new underground cables and converting 329 km of existing overhead cable into underground ones. Some 77 distribution transformers will be installed and 27 existing ones are being augmented.
 
 
