NAGPUR: Even as the state government is implementing ambitious Dr Shayamaprasad Mukherjee Jan Van scheme in the buffer zone of tiger reserves to curb man-animal conflict, there is no let up in wild animal deaths due to electrocution.
 
 In the latest case, four bisons (gaurs) were allegedly electrocuted by a farmer in   in   range in Bhandara division bordering New   Wildlife 
  Sanctuary two day ago. Bisons are listed under Schedule-I of the Widlife (Protection) Act, 1972. 
 
 According to assistant conservator (ACF) ST Pawar, two accused — Pandurang Chandekar, 70, and a farm labourer Wasudeo Raikwad, 50, from Bampewada have been arrested. Sources said Chandekar’s son Anil, who is involved in the crime, has not been arrested.
 
 Pawar informed that on the night of April 15, both the accused electrified the farm fence with current taken from the agriculture meter to save paddy crop. “Both slept in the farm. On early morning of April 16, they were shocked to see bodies of four bisons who had been electrocuted. As the farm is adjoining forest and isolated, both the accused left the farm and did not disclose about the animal deaths to anyone,” said Pawar.
 
 According to sources, the accused returned to the farm late in the evening and with the help of a tractor owned by a villager from nearby Amgaon, dragged the herbivores 200 metres away from the farm, ostensibly to destroy evidence.
 
 Forest officials came to know about the incident on April 17. They have seized 7kg wire and 50 wooden pegs used to electrocute the animals. However, the tractor has not been seized.
 
 Sources said Chandekars seem to be habitual offenders as in November last, at least five bisons had been electrocuted in the same farm. “Evidence was destroyed by burying the animals with the help of JCB machine in a village nullah,” they said.
 
 ACF Pawar said, “We are not aware about the earlier incident. Only interrogation of the accused can throw light on the suspected crime.”
 
 The forest department sought five days forest custody remand (FCR) of the accused but the Sakoli judicial magistrate first class (JMFC) granted two-day FCR.
 
 Though crores of rupees are being spent under various schemes by the forest department and NGOs to win over locals, rampant destruction of prey and predators by electrocution remains an issue.
 
 “In the last few months, forest department and MSEDCL staff had launched joint drives after series of tiger deaths due to electrocution. The latest incident shows the drive has taken a back seat,” said Dr Jerryl Banait, a wildlife lover.
 
 
