Probably, he would have made three visits to India between 1956 and late 80s. As far as Chennai is concerned, the landmark events of   were in 1956 and 1977. When he came in 1956, my father,  , was the campaign coordinator and happened to be his translator as well during the public meeting. Later, my dad became a good friend of the entire Billy Graham team. During one of his visits, he not only came to Chennai, but also visited Palayamkottai. For Protestants, he is what Mother Teresa is for Catholics. Wherever he went, his crowd would be nothing less than hundred thousand people.

 
  
 
 So, when he came to Chennai in 1977, the Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium, where his meeting was held, was packed. In fact, the meetings were so big that his team was here for almost a year for preparations. Wherever he went ensured that all the denominations came together. He wouldn’t come unless the whole city was unified.
 In 1956, I think the public meeting happened at Doveton ground. The first time they came to Chennai, they stayed at Connemara hotel and when he came in 1977, the entire team stayed at the Taj Coromandel. In fact, for one whole year, his team had booked one floor for them. The choir that performed for his public meeting in 1977 in the city would have been a 1000-voice choir. Cliff Barrows, who was the music director of Billy Graham’s team, was here and he personally trained the choir. George Beverly Shea, who was an international gospel singer, also sang in Chennai during his public meetings. I was a 10-year-old boy when I met him in 1977.
 Each time he came to India, he met several national figures in India. In 1956, he and his team were invited by India’s first Prime Minister, Jawaharlal Nehru, in Delhi. Later, when he came again to India, he was felicitated by Indira Gandhi. In Chennai, when he came in 1977, he was invited to the then Tamil Nadu governor’s residence. I think it was Prabhudas Patwari who was the governor of Tamil Nadu back then. He came to India another time on a personal visit for the rehabilitation of people after a massive cyclone hit Andhra.
 
 — As told to Ashish.Joseph1@timesgroup.com
 
 
