MYSURU: Whether they are roaming in the wilderness of   and Nagarahole, or strolling in the thoroughfares of   in all majesty, caparisoned and dressed for the occasion, during the Dasara procession, it would be hard to find a more befitting symbol for the ‘Heritage City’ than the elephant. And, it is the gentle giant that   have chosen as their  .

 Mysuru city police will perhaps be the first in the country to have an official mascot. The mascot will educate citizens about traffic rules, law and order and crime activities.
 
 Although it is yet to be officially announced, City police commissioner A   confirmed to STOI that an inflatable elephant would be their official mascot. “The force is spending Rs 5 lakh on the mascot, which is being procured as part of the traffic awareness equipment,” he added.
 
 Highlighting the advantages of having an official mascot,   added, “It will help raise awareness among the public, since it will have no difficulty in drawing their attention.”
 
 Mysuru city police have earmarked Rs 40 lakh for the purpose of increasing awareness among the public about traffic rules and regulations. Under the M-Track scheme, the year 2018 has been dedicated to raise awareness among road users, and city police will be allocated funds of up to Rs 4 crore under the initiative. An independent consulting agency will be assisting police on spending these funds. Earlier, these funds were utilised for junction improvement, and installation of closed circuit television (CCTV) cameras, et al.
 
 “We will also rope in volunteers from the ranks of high school and pre-university students to assist us in educating the public,” Rao said, adding that there were plans on the anvil to have awareness drives every fortnight.
 
 “We want to build a team of 500 students so that each one can spare one to two hours once in 15 days to raise awareness about traffic regulations,” the City top cop said. 
 
 The volunteers, who will be identified as ‘young Mysureans’ will be provided caps, gloves, whistles and identity cards, Rao added.
 
 City police will also buy projectors, and screens, which will be used to present audiovisual presentations at schools, colleges and office spaces. In addition to this, five alcohol meters, and public address system, which cumulatively cost Rs 16 lakh are being procured.
 
 
