JAIPUR: Sometimes when things aren’t working, you need that one moment – a swashbuckling six, a wicket that breaks a stump, a stunning catch or a run-out or even a maiden over – for that feel-good change to arrive.   (RR) need the inspiration from somewhere. Two wins in five matches isn’t a bad start to the   as teams are trying out various combinations, but it looks better when your Sunday opponent, the   (MI), only have one win from four games. But then, there is that often used term in this format — ‘momentum’ — which separates the two sides.

 
 
 
 Rajasthan have lost their last two games convincingly, to Chennai Super Kings by 64 runs in Pune on Friday and by seven wickets in Jaipur two days before that. Mumbai, after a hat-trick of losses, were clinical in their last game at home as they bettered Royal Challengers Bangalore by 46 runs. That brings both teams to the Sawai Mansingh Stadium for a Sunday clash to close the weekend.
 
 
 
 Jaipur has been Rajasthan’s fortress where they have won 25 of the 34 games they have played here. For two seasons, 2008 and 2013, they enjoyed unbeaten runs here, winning seven and eight games respectively. They can look to the experience of captain  , who was with the team five years back too, for inspiration.
 
 Twice now in two games, there were times when they could have taken the initiative but wasted the opportunity. First, against KKR when D’Arcy Short was on 44 and Royals at 98/2 in 12.4 overs, and he had hit a six and a four off the previous over. With Ben Stokes and Jos Buttler to follow, they could have got anything but 160 for 8. He got played on to a slower one and the Royals never recovered. Their 9-match unbeaten streak – eight games from 2013 and one this season in their fortress - came to an end. Short was dropped for the next game.
 
 A decision because he played 43 balls in the innings and RR bought in the big-hitting Heinrich Klaasen. Though the Australian looked in form towards the end, he has been given a longish rope of four games with scores of 4, 6, 11 and 44. Then, against Chennai it was obvious, that dropped catch of Shane Watson (wasn’t he the face of Royal some time back?) in the very first over proved fatal. He scored a ton, CSK reached 204 and just 54 runs given away by the RR bowlers in the last seven overs did not make much of a difference.
 
