Vijayawada: For many years after the formation of Andhra Pradesh in 1956, the capital Hyderabad had been the destination of unemployed youth from coastal districts. While the rich set out for the US in search of jobs, the middle and poor chose Hyderabad to make a living. Perhaps this was the reason why people from these parts of the state opposed the bifurcation, as it could affect their employment in Hyderabad.

 Now, four years after the bifurcation, and losing Hyderabad to Telangana, youths from these Andhra districts have made Vijayawada their home. A large number of youths, most of them dropouts, came to Vijayawada, which was announced to be the capital area of the state. 
 
 While the migration of people working as domestic and construction from Uttarandhra continues, the youth have also chose the city as their destination. As the work on building the new capital city has gained momentum, people from poor or low financial status have started coming in looking for jobs such as security guard, mechanics, electricians, and so on. 
 
 The migration of middle class youths from the two Godavari districts and parts of Prakasam district has begun, and many of them have taken to driving autos. 
 
 The enterprising youth from the coastal districts have thus made the city their home, after coming back from Hyderabad. While it would take a few more years to see the dream city of Amaravati, the real capital, to extend a helping hand to these unemployed youth, the youth have found   driving as the best option. 
 
 They are also using technology to tie up with online booking portals. The trend of offering online   services has also picked up. Youths, across all levels of education, have started working on it either independently or in groups to provide cab services partnering online taxi aggregators such as Ola.
 
 “These days, I find a lot of youth, most graduates who speak English, driving autos in the city. This is something interesting to see,” said Mohammad Hussain, a private employee, who works in Vijayawada, and has his family in Hyderabad. He said it was a bit difficult for him to find cab or auto drivers who spoke Hindi, Urdu or English, when he landed in the city in 2015. “Now, surprisingly I find some young drivers who can understand English and Hindi, which makes my movement in the city easy,” he said.
 
 Mohmmad Hameed, a civil engineering graduate from the city started his driving career a few months ago. Now, he has partnered three friends, and started offering cab services using his family connections in the motor and transport field. “My three friends are graduates like me, and we are slowly reaching out to more customers,” he said.
 
 Then there are young drivers like U Mallikharjun from Krishna Lanka. He quit studies in 2013 after studying till Intermediate, and took up auto driving in the city. “There is nothing wrong in being an auto driver. I am earning from my hard work and I feel proud,” he said. When asked why he had taken up auto driving, Mallikharjun said, “Where are the jobs, either in governor or private?”
 
 There are many young cab and auto drivers on the city roads happily making money from driving. They also understand that Vijayawada city is not the city that it has been before 2014 and it needs educated people to make the travel happy for non-locals. “Understanding different languages is also important, as the city will slowly become cosmopolitan, apart from having global visitors,” Hameed said.
 
 M Subhash from Devinagar is science graduate who has a cab linked with Ola. After completing BSc, he tried looking for several jobs, but could not get the salary he was expecting. After consulting a friend in Hyderabad, he purchased a car and partnered Ola. “Initially my relatives discouraged me, and insisted that I should tale up a job. But, I am a proud owner of a car now, and can earn what I could have earned as an employee,” Subhash said. He said leasing a car has given him more free time. “I can work when I want and take rest when I need. There is no compelling situation and I control my life.”
 
 
