TUTICORIN: As many as 104 projects will be carried out at a mammoth Rs 2.5 lakh crore under the Sagarmala project in Tamil Nadu, Union minister for road transport, highways and shipping   said and exuded confidence that this will improve the employment potential of youth in the state and the export potential.

 Gadkari was addressing a gathering after inaugurating various projects that were completed for Rs 337 crore at the Tuticorin VO Chidambaram Port on Monday. He added that efforts would be taken to launch innovative sea transport facilities from Thiruvananthapuram to Chennai stretch through Kanyakumari and Puducherry.
 
 “Next time I will come here (Tuticorin) in a sea plane,” he remarked in a lighter vein.
 
 Speaking on the importance of   in the logistic point of view in brining container shipments from   port in Sri Lanka, Gadkari said that efforts were being taken to develop the port here. This will benefit textile export and promote tourism too, he said.
 
 “We have already taken decisions to develop the port at Rs 3,000 crore by deepening the draft to 16.5m. It will be useful for the economic viability of the port,” he said and added that upon completion of the project, the port would attract bigger ships that were now going to Colombo and directly bring more business and employment here.
 
 Gadkari asked the port trust to increase the green cover of Tuticorin city and develop the fishing harbour here. He also asked the port to offer skill development and technical training to youth.
 
 To representations by Tuticorin MP   and MLA P Geetha Jeevan, the minister said the four-lane Tuticorin to Madurai national highway would soon be converted into six-lane.
 
 He said that the existing highway was in a bad shape due to problems faced by the contractor. 
 
 The minister said that he had held talks about it with bankers at Chennai on Sunday, and that the maintenance work would commence in a month. 
 
 He also expressed willingness to sanction funds under corporate social responsibility for public utilities in Tuticorin.
 
 Earlier, minister of state for shipping and finance Pon Radhakrishnan said that three of the 12 major ports in India were in Tamil Nadu and that efforts were on to establish the fourth such major port – the International Container Transhipment Terminal, which was his pet project too– at Kanyakumari. 
 
 He added that efforts taken to develop the Tuticorin port would increase its capacity manifold in a couple of years.
 
 Chairman of VOC port trust I  , deputy chairman S Natarajan and others also spoke on the occasion.
 
 
