NEW DELHI: With the Delhi government fielding   to find a way out of the executive-bureaucracy logjam, the joint forum of   is likely to   on Monday to discuss the future course of action. On Sunday, representatives of the forum reiterated their intention to maintain only written communication with the government until chief minister Arvind Kejriwal apologised for the alleged assault on chief secretary Anshu Prakash.

 A day earlier, Gautam, who sources said, was handpicked by Kejriwal for the task of rapprochement, had said: “The government has taken the first step to build mutual trust and officials, too, must come forward. The accused in the alleged assault are behind bars and under investigation. So, why shouldn’t the work of the people go on smoothly?” 
 
  
  
 
 
 Sources told TOI that the future course of action would depend on what transpires at the meet of the forum that represents officers of IAS association, DANICS and DASS. Meetings with the executive would be held if a majority opinion was in its favour, they said. “I am hoping for the best outcome, so that the impasse ends and the people don’t suffer,” Gautam said. If the   agreed to meet Gautam and there was any breakthrough, parleys with the chief minister and his deputy might also be held, sources said.
 
 In an effort to reverse the perception that it was approaching the impasse with an aggressive attitude, sources said, the government was showing keen interest in ending the tussle. Amid a possibility of byelection to 20 assembly seats, the fear is that the issue could cause the Aam Aadmi Party government much harm. 
 
 AAP MP Sanjay Singh said on Sunday: “The bureaucracy should not make it an ego issue. The people of Delhi shouldn’t suffer. The MLAs who have been accused of assaulting the chief secretary have already been arrested. The investigation into the alleged assault on the CS has been progressing fast even though there is no movement on the attack on our minister, Imran Hussain, and Delhi Dialogue Commission vice-chairperson Ashish Khetan inside the secretariat even after production of evidence.”
 
 Sources in bureaucracy said it would not be easy to plug the “trust deficit” between the Delhi government and officers. With AAP MLA Naresh Balyan stating that officers who obstructed public work should be thrashed, it has only widened the gulf. Officers have insisted on an apology from the chief minister over the issue. However an AAP functionary said: “The question of apology does not arise when the matter is already under investigation and in court. The way forward is not an apology, but a dialogue without ego. The government will accept the outcome of the investigation.” 
 
 As they refrained from formal meetings with the political executive, the bureaucrats took to the social media to put forward their argument. Contradicting the government’s claims that work was suffering due to the standoff, a twitter handle created by the Delhi Government Employees Association stated: “We want to assure LG Anil Baijal, Delhi government and all the citizens of Delhi that we all have been fully working in offices and no work has suffered in the past week and shall not suffer in future either. We stay committed to our service to Delhi citizenry (sic).”
 
 The upcoming week is going to be extremely crucial with the annual budget scheduled in March.
 
 
