CHANDIGARH: At a time when the   governance reforms have become the talking point on the university campus with former Panjab University Teachers' Association (PUTA) presidents stating the reforms agenda must be taken with an "open mind", the existing   on Tuesday called for an open debate on the issue. The PUTA also convened a meeting of the PUTA executive on Tuesday to discuss the issue. While the present PUTA claims they have been completely kept in the dark regarding the involvement of earlier PUTA members in the preparing of the affidavit/s submitted to the high court, the suggested reforms in the affidavit of vice-chancellor may prove to be even worse than the current system. 

 "Each clause in the current statute has to be examined threadbare, by involving all stakeholders, including teachers, students, non-teaching staff, members of governing bodies, etc. Nobody, including the VC or even PUTA alone, has the prerogative to impose its verdict upon the other stakeholders," said PUTA president Rajesh Gill.
 
 "The very fact that current PUTA is being kept aside, while deliberating upon the issue and the governing bodies have been excluded from the discussion completely make us wonder as to whether our authorities are actually serious about affecting the so-called governance reforms," Gill said . "PUTA calls for an open debate among all stakeholders on the real issue, i.e. the nature of reforms and the recommendations, so that the issue can be clinched rather than getting twisted, creating even more groups within the stakeholders, and causing irreparable damage to the university," said Gill.
 
 However, since the current PUTA had not clarified its stance on the issue of the   of the university, this had given many a chance to point fingers at the PUTA. 
 
 "It is perhaps for the first time in the history of PUTA that the present leadership prefers to be silent on a serious crisis emanating from initiation of reforms in the governing structure of the university. I appeal to the PUTA executive to come forward to help the cause of genuine governance reforms," said  , associate professor at the department of education, who had also contested PUTA elections last year.
 
