NEW DELHI: The   Nagar village was set to be Delhi’s newest tourist destination. Located a few miles from IGI Airport, the village is home to several late Mughal  . These were being conserved by Intach Delhi Chapter and the Delhi government’s department of archaeology.

  
  
 But now, the project has hit a roadblock as the ministry of   has objected to the work as the ruins are on its land.
 
 A gateway, mosque, enclosing wall, a whole katra or a settlement, and an authentic   garden—all in various stages of decay—speak of the rich history of Mehram Nagar. It came up in mid-17th century and was named after a Mughal courtier named Mehram Khan.
 
 Archaeological Survey of India has already certified a doorway as having been built by Mughal emperors Shah Jahan and Aurangzeb in the 1660s. Not surprisingly, conservationists say Mehram Nagar can be promoted as a tourist spot, especially due to its proximity to the airport.
 
 Despite the ravages of time, most of the edifice has fortunately survived. A few have fallen victim to the urban sprawl, but excavations also unearthed new structures like toilets and canopies. "We dug out a small tank with a water channel. Since we have only excavated a small portion of the garden, we don’t know yet where the water channel leads to," said an official.
 
 But the project was stalled in May last year. "We are trying to resolve the issue with the ministry. Our job is to conserve these monuments so that more and more people come here. We are hoping for a resolution at the earliest," said a senior Delhi government official.
 
 Intach officials said they needed at least six months more to complete the work. "Only some of the pavilions have been restored; a lot more has to be done," said an official.
 
 The conservation is part of Phase III of a scheme that entails preservation of 18 monuments that are unprotected. So far, over two dozen nearly forgotten monuments have been conserved and opened to public.
 
 At Mehram Nagar, though, only one of the three original gateways stands today. But unless rescued, this too could vanish.
 
 
