The India cricket media rights sale has a twist. The mandatory five-minute gap between television and digital broadcast will has been done away with.   ( ) has made it clear that the telecast will start on digital and television platforms simultaneously.

 
 The new clause could be the gamechanger in the whole sale and its value. It could encourage the digital companies to bid fiercely. Because they will no longer be at a disadvantage. The base price for the digital rights is Rs 7 crores.
 
 Concurrently, the clause makes it mandatory for the television companies to bid for the digital rights too. More precisely, they companies will have to have the internet rights so that they can show the matches in their own platforms in their own way.
 
 Otherwise, the television companies will be at a disadvantage while selling the rights to the DTH platforms like Dish TV, Tata Sky, AirTel and Videocon. The DTH companies can always claim that while the feed is available for free on the digital platforms, why should they be buy the television feed at a premium.
 
 "The move has been made to help the big digital companies," said a market observer saying that the television companies like Sony, Star and DSport have a reason to be aggrieved. But the BCCI says the move is to maximise the revenue opportunity. The base price for the television rights is Rs 33 crores.
 
 There is another compulsion too for the BCCI to ensure simultaneous start. Having won the   rights, Star could show the IPL games at the same time on television as well as on its digital platform, Hotstar. In such a situation, there is no point in having deferred live for the digital for the bilateral matches, which are, anyway, not as popular as the IPL games.
 
 Mirror understands that there are six bidders in the fray altogether and a surprise entrant this time is Google. The American firm is not new to cricket webcast, having previously shown the IPL games live, but the presence of   makes the whole race very interesting. The other digital bidders are, of course, Jio and Facebook. AirTel and Amzaon are not in the fray.
 
 As about television firms, there two major players – Sony and Star. DSport has also joined the race but it is not known how serious is the company in participating in the bidding process. The rights will be sold through e-auction on April 3.
 
