Vadodara: Activists including professor J S Bandukwala and   ousted by the Vadodara Municipal Corporation (VMC) from Kalyannagar staged protests at the civic body’s headquarters in Khanderao Market. The protestors refused to leave the premises till late on Friday night.

 The Kalyannagar settlement that had around 1,900 dwellings was razed by the civic body in 2014. Some of the resident of Kalyannagar were given residences in Kalyannagar and Kalali. But the resettlement at Sayajipura and Kalali was objected by locales as most of the residents of Kalyannagar were from the minority community.
 
 Later the VMC, in a settlement reached with those who were ousted, had promised that those who were not being allowed to settle in housing schemes at Sayajipura and Kalali by local residents would be given houses at Kalyannagar itself. The decision was taken after a meeting between the VMC mayor, standing committee chairman, municipal commissioner as well as MLAs.
 
 The residents, however, find themselves in a piquant condition as the civic body has defaulted on rent for around seven months even as there is no progress on the housing scheme proposed there. As many as 618 families are to be paid a rent of Rs 3,000 a month till the housing scheme comes up at Kalyannagar.
 
 The civic body had to take the decision of giving the beneficiaries houses elsewhere as the funds for the Kalyannagar project had been exhausted. Unauthorised extra work was conducted on the project and payments were made leading to the situation. The contractor discontinued work as his payments were stopped by the VMC. The civic body is insisting that the beneficiaries accept houses at a scheme in Tandalja. Around 50 families have shifted to Tandalja, but the remaining want the VMC to keep its commitment. 
 
 When contacted about the activists and residents staying put at the VMC headquarters, VMC commissioner Vinod Rao said that Bandukwala and others were being requested to call off the agitation. “We can meet on Monday to discuss the issue,” he said.
 
 
