 seems to be on a roll in Tollywood what with two exciting releases lined up — Tholi Prema with   and Touch   starring Ravi Teja. “The best part is that the characters I play in both films are completely different from each other. My role in Tholi Prema is a very performance oriented one. The film will establish me as more than just a glam girl. In Touch Chesi Chudu, I play a glamourous role but it has a comic touch to it. I love comedy and the audience seem to receive me well in funny roles, like in Supreme. But the comic episodes between me and   are going to be “next level funny” and will leave the movie goers in splits,” says the actress who has come a long way since making a splash in Telugu cinema with Oohalu Gusagugalade in 2014. 

 Her performance in Oohalu... struck a chord with the audience and she’s stayed put here ever since. “I am someone who will give my heart and soul for something I love... I really wanted to be a part of Tollywood. That’s why I decided to shift base here two years ago. The Telugu audience made me who I am today. I have a loyal fan base and the warmth I receive from the industry is comforting. What more do I need,” she says smiling.
 Raashi prefers to set her own standards. “I compare myself only to my previous performances and do my best to improve. And when I love performances of other actors, I make sure I let them know. If I see a good performance, I applaud it. But I don’t compare myself to anyone else because everyone has her own journey,” she says.
 Raashi has made a reputation for herself as a singer, having crooned for Thariraa in Balakrishnudu and   in Jawaan recently. When asked about it, she says, “I love doing anything creative, be it singing, writing or acting. Singing has always been my passion and I wanted to be a singer but I couldn’t because I had to focus on my studies. But I am glad to have got the opportunity to sing because people loved my voice, especially in Bangaaru,” she gushes. “I love to write too, but that’s really personal,” she says, signing off. 
 
