The  , which has the distinction of being one of the oldest heritage buildings in the state, is all set to celebrate its 150th anniversary on April 7.

 The only major hospital in Ooty today, the facility was started in 1829 as an Army hospital by John Sullivan, then collector of Coimbatore region, with just 14 beds, including four for British officers.
 
 The hospital underwent several changes before it was renovated and renamed as Bartholomew hospital in 1867. It was taken over by the government in 1920.
 
 Today, the hospital has 421 beds including 116 for the maternity wing. Over the years, the hospital has been extended and wards for dialysis and ophthalmic, TB, and childcare have been added. The hospital also provides paid wards (A-class). 
 
 Spread across 5 acres, the building originally made of lime mortar and bricks, is being maintained by the government. 
 
 "Though the hospital’s history could be traced back to 1829, it became a full-fledged one only in 1867 with the addition of the present heritage block, which was built at `22, 000 contributed by the public and the government," said Dr H Ravikumar, superintendent at the hospital. "This is why we consider 1867 as the birth year of the hospital. As there is no record of the exact date of the inauguration of the hospital, we decided to celebrate the 150th anniversary on World Health Day (April 7)," he added. Noting that the current year actually marks the hospital’s 151st anniversary, Ravikumar said they weren’t able to organise the celebration last year as the staff was held up with quality control programmes. 
 
 The celebration would be an in-house event that would be attended by Nilgiris collector, J Innocent Divya. Dharmalingam Venugopal, director of Nilgiris Documentation Centre, is slated to give a talk on the history of the institution on the occasion. 
 
 "We are going to felicitate at least 100 people including doctors, nurses and staff who have worked for the hospital," said  , resident medical officer of the hospital.
 
 In 2016, former TN chief minister, J Jayalalithaa, considering the Nilgiris as a special case, announced upgradation of the hospital to the standard of a medical college hospital under Rule 110 in the assembly. All special posts for the specialty departments such as cardiology, neurology, nephrology, gastroenterology and plastic surgery were sanctioned too. Posting of specialists for gastroenterology and plastic surgery were made. However, the specialists are presently attached to ESI hospital in Coimbatore as a super specialty hospital in Ooty is yet to come up.
 
 
