MUMBAI: Taking a lenient view towards a hearing impaired and   man found guilty of attempting to disrobe two   in their house, a special Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act court sentenced him to three years’ imprisonment. The accused, also convicted for house trespass, was facing a maximum   of seven years in jail. A neighbour of the victims, he broke into their house while the mother had gone out to buy vegetables, and sexually abused them.

 The child’s mother told the court that on August 17, 2016, she had left the house. The two children her eight-year-old daughter and her 11-year-old friend were sleeping at her home. The mother said that when she returned some time later, her daughter told her that the accused had come over. The child told her that the accused touched her inappropriately and even attempted to undress her. 
 
 The child said that the accused repeated this with the other child. But when both children woke up, the accused left the spot. The mother said that afraid that the accused would return, the children bolted the door. They then rushed to tell her daughter’s friend’s mother in the neighbourhood. She also called her brother and sister-in-law. The families then went to the police station and registered a case against the accused.
 
 The court refuted the defence of the accused that due to water wastage there were frequent quarrels between the families of the victim and accused, and hence he was falsely implicated. The court said the minors had deposed only on the point of disrobing and were silent about being molested.
 
  gets life for raping minor kids
 
 A special POCSO Act court on Friday convicted and sentenced a 38-year-old man to life imprisonment for repeatedly raping his minor daughters for almost two years. The accused, a driver, was fined Rs90,000 too. The amount, if recovered, will be given to victims as compensation. The victims, 15 and 16 at the time of the incident in 2013, are in a shelter home after their mother did not support their case. During deposition, the elder sister told the court that while she was aware her father had done wrong, she did not want to see him go to jail. tnn
 
 
