PUNE: The Hadapsar police on Monday arrested a first year B Com student for stealing 13 smartphones and a laptop, all belonging to his 14 college mates.

 The thefts took place between 11am and 2pm since March 15, when the students of the college in Hadapsar were appearing for their exams and had kept their bags outside the classroom. 
 
 After committing the crime, the suspect, Sunil Tulsiram Chande (21) from Magarali, got in touch with several people to sell the cellphones. In the meantime, a police informant tipped off sub-inspector Mangesh   of the Hadapsar police station informing him that Chande would be coming to the Hadapsar bus stand on Monday to meet a prospective customer.
  
  
 Bhange and his team under senior inspector Vishnu Pawar, in charge of the Hadapsar police station, laid a trap and took Chande into custody after recovering one of the stolen smartphones from him. A search conducted at his house later, led to the recovery of 12 more smartphones and the laptop.
 
 Chande was detained on suspicion after he failed to give satisfactory explanation as to how he came to be in possession of so many smartphones, especially when he had no source of income. During sustained questioning, Chande confessed to have stolen the bags containing the cellphones and the laptop from his college.
 
 However, investigators were taken aback when they realised that none of the students had approached the police to lodge a complaint after their valuables were stolen. 
 
 Bhange said, “We have identified the owners of the smartphones and lodged six first information reports against Chande under section 379 (theft) of the Indian Penal Code as of now. We are in the process of registering more cases against him.”
 
 “Chande told the police that he took to stealing due to financial constraints. We have arrested him in two theft cases and his custody will be transferred in the third case,” he added. The suspect comes from a poor family and his father has passed. His mother works as a domestic help and he has five sisters and a brother. 
 
 
