KOCHI: The   (F&B) has filed adetailed report on the probe it conducted into the explosion at the   (CSL) which claimed five lives on February 13. The report recommends that the government initiate prosecution procedures against senior   officials, citing safety violations.

 V K Arunan, the resident joint director of F&B at CSL said that the department can register a criminal case under Section 92 of the Factories Act which could invite prison terms up to two years or a fine of up to Rs 2 lakh or both.
 
 
 TOI had on Sunday carried detailed reports, based on the F&B department probe, on the violations in CSL which led to the explosion. “As we have found violations in contravention to the provisions of the Factories Act, the occupier and manager of the factory shall be guilty. Hence, we have recommended prosecution procedures against top CSL officials. Further action by the department will be based on the directions from the government and the director,” said Arunan.
 
 Arunan submitted the more than 50-page report to the ministry of labour on Tuesday.
 
 “Failure in ensuring safety by conducting proper inspection before permitting hot works (cutting and welding) in the ship and lack of training and expertise of the personal handling the works are some of the violations,” said F&B department director P Pramod.
 
 He reiterated that the report indicates accumulation of acetylene in huge quantities due to improper handling of the gas hoses the night before.
 
 The probe couldn’t pinpoint the source of the fire. But as TOI reported, it could be from the use of mobile phone, electrical spark or the lighting up of the torch of the gas cutter.
 
 “There is little evidence available from the explosion spot and there are no witness statements. The source of explosion, however, will not be crucial in proving the violations,” said the director. The probe had revealed the irresponsible way the CSL workers handled flammable gas like acetylene by bending the end of the rubber pipe that supplied the gas backwards and tying it with a string. It was found that the valves were not properly closed and the gas found its way out through the tied-up end of the rubber hose.
 
