Jaipur: Rajasthan chief minister Vasundhra Raje said that the budget presented by Union finance minister will bring happiness to the lives of common people of the country.

 In her statement, she said that the budget follows the credo of development of prime minster Narendra Modi. “This budget will provide better living standards for the poor, villages, farmers, traders, youths and women of the country,” she said in her statement, adding that it would also provide a fresh boost for economic development.
 
 The Budget aims to provide ‘ease of living’ for the people and would ensure housing for all by 2022. The government plans to make over one crore houses, she said.
 
 “Under the Ujjwala scheme as many as eight crore gas connections will be given to women. Moreover, there is a provision to provide free electricity to four crore poor families. These schemes will bring happiness to all,” the statement said.
 
 She also said that the Budget 2018 focuses on farming and agriculture as it aims to increase the income of farmers. “The budget will help in generating new job opportunities and bring investment,” she said.
 
 BOX: Lacking in vision, clear roadmap absent: Gehlot
 
 Former Rajasthan chief minister Ashok Gehlot on Thursday criticised the Union budget for lacking in vision and roadmap. Expressing his disappointment, Gehlot said the BJP party, which speaks about development, has not drawn any clear roadmap of how development would take place in the country and the state.
 
 The announcement that the government would provide minimum support price (MSP) 1.5 times higher than the cost of production to farmers for the upcoming kharif crop is an eyewash and fake promise. “The economy of the country deteriorated after the implementation of the Goods and Service Tax (GST) and demonetisation. People were expecting announcements to improve the economy. However, their hopes have been dashed,” he added.
 
 The salaried sector is disappointed as no relief has been provided in income slabs. Also , no benefit has been provided to small scale industry. On the contrary , imposing 10 % tax on people who are investing in share market and mutual funds is discouraging.
 
 He added, the prime minister’s dream to make 99 smart cities is a vague imagination. This scheme has been flopped entirely.
 
 
