CHANDIGARH: The   in Sector 40 conducted draw of lots for   in the new session. The school opened 62 seats, out of the 150 seats, for general category. The rest were given to reserved categories like siblings and alumni. Thirty seven   were reserved for the economically weaker section (EWS) and the draw for these seats have been postponed following the UT education department’s decision to shift admission dates for EWS students from January 15 to 31.

 According to school authorities,   had received around 900 forms for 113 seats in nursery classes. Twenty eight seats were allotted to the siblings of the current students, 28 were given to the wards of alumni, wards of staff and others. AKSIPS schools in sector 41 and 45 also held draw of lots on Thursday.
 
 All private schools in Chandigarh have made the income certificate mandatory for admissions under the Right to Education Act. The catch is that the   office is yet to provide income certificates to nearly 1,399 applicants. This will cause further delay in the admission process for students belonging to economically weaker sections, who have already been held up over lack of clarity from the estate office on percentage of seats.
 
 This happened in the 2017-18 session as well, when students from financially weak backgrounds could join classes only on April 7, when general category students had already started lessons. The delay was caused over issuance of income certificate.
 
 In view of the non-issuance of income certificates and lack of clarity on percentage of seats to be reserved under the land allotment scheme, district education officer   has extended the date for form submission to January 31. A letter in this regard was sent to the director, school education on Tuesday. Earlier, the education department extended the form submission date for EWS from December 12 to January 15.
 
 As per details, maximum income certificates are pending in the east division (674), followed by the South (323) and then Central (94). 
 
 
