NEW DELHI: In the   that was punctuated by   over corruption allegations against the mayor, the   finalised its   for 2018-19 on Saturday and decided not to hike any taxes despite a big Rs 1,583 crore deficit. After considering the commissioner’s proposals and standing committee recommendations, leader of the House Jayendra Dabas decided not to take the civic body’s financial woes head on.

 Property tax rates were last revised in 2004, said civic officials, but Dabas felt that “instead of putting a burden on people, the corporation will try to fill its coffers by redeveloping its prime properties, regulating the vending activity and weekly bazaars and increasing its property tax net”. And while Aam Aadmi Party councillors loudly demanded the mayor’s removal, Dabas blamed the party-led state government for the corporation’s dire financial condition. “Delhi government owes us over Rs 2,600 crore and has kept many public welfare projects pending. Nevertheless, we will become self-dependent,” Dabas declared.
 
 
  
  
 
 The cash strapped body optimistically announced a host of welfare measures with special emphasis on increasing the parking capacity in areas under its jurisdiction. “To the existing capacity of 31,000 vehicles, we will add almost 12,500 new slots through 13 stacked parking lots, seven multilevel parking and five metro-stacked projects,” Dabas said. He reckoned that housing projects in Azadpur, Model Town, Bungalow Road and Minto Road would each fetch over Rs 100 crore in revenues, while Rs 60 crore could similarly accrue from the redevelopment of Novelty Cinema, Cup and Saucer Restaurant and Pili Kothi.
 
 The corporation owes contractors Rs 450 crore in payments and has arrears of Rs 650 crore in unpaid employee salaries. “To bypass financial problems, we will execute many of these projects on PPP model,” Dabas elaborated. He added that regularising thousands of weekly bazaars under the Navoday Bazaar project would also bring in revenues.
 
 The corporation raised the municipal councillor development fund from the existing Rs 25 lakh to Rs 50 lakh per year for each ward, while the Chhath Ghat Fund was doubled from the existing Rs 1 crore.
 
 Starting up to five canteens providing meals at Rs10 under the centre’s Deen Dayal Upadhayay Antyodaya Yojana, providing a rebate of 2% property tax and licensing fee to women entrepreneurs and of 50% on the interest on the education loans taken by children of sanitation workers to study medical/engineering courses were also cleared. Also approved were herbal parks and Nakshatra and Yoga gardens in each ward, with the funds required to maintain them coming from rentals of kiosks at these places. 
 
 Congress councillor Mukesh Goyal declared the budget a “bagful of empty promises that have always remained unfulfilled”. Leader of opposition Rakesh Kumar said that they were opposed to the budget session being held under a “corrupt mayor”, especially when many old projects had been stalled by corruption.
 
 
