WASHINGTON: The Trump-Kim   is back on schedule, with the US President offering a series of concessions to   even before the meeting.

 Bantering with journalists after a White House meeting with the North Korean leader’s envoy and spy chief Kim Yong Chol, Trump said the June 12 meeting is on and predicted "it’s probably going to be very successful."
 
 In doing so, Trump revealed several cards and surprising concessions to North Korea: There may not be any immediate deliverables at the Singapore meeting, he indicated; It was going to be a 'process' – not the immediate denuclearization, or at least an immediate, unconditional commitment to do so, that some US officials had wanted.
 
 "Wouldn’t it be wonderful if we walked out and everything was settled all of a sudden from sitting down for a couple of hours?" Trump said. "No, I don’t see that happening. But I see over a period of time. And frankly, I said, ‘Take your time.’"
 
 In addition, there would be no new sanctions on North Korea, and although the existing sanctions would remain in place, there would be no pressure on Pyongyang.
 
 "I don’t even want to use the term maximum pressure anymore because we’re getting along," Trump said, referring to an expression he had used often. "You see the relationship. We’re getting along. So it’s not a question of maximum pressure. It’s staying essentially the way it is."
 
 Trump also dumped his vice-president Mike Pence and his National Security Adviser John Bolton from the 90-minute Oval office meeting with the North Korean visitor who is technically banned from visiting the US. Both are regarded as hawks on North Korea and had attracted Pyongyong’s ire after suggesting Washington was seeking to impose the 'Libyan model' of denuclearization on the hermit nation.
 
 In fact, their remarks precipitated the near calling off of the summit.
 
 "We’re over that, totally over that, and now we’re going to deal and we’re going to really start a process," Trump said after he received a personal letter from Kim. "We’re meeting with the chairman on June 12, and I think it’s probably going to be a very successful — ultimately, a successful process."
 
 The North Korean envoy, who is Kim Jong Un’s right hand man, delivered an oversized envelope to the US President, which Trump had been waiting for 24 hours as the Kim Yong Chol made his way to Washington from New York.
 
 Trump held it with visible delight, asking reporters, "Oh, would you like to see what was in that letter! Would you like it? How much? How much? How much?" as if he was auctioning the letter. He described it as a 'very nice letter' although he said he had not read it.
 
 It was a remarkably candid and off-the-cuff moment the likes of which is seldom seen in a system where every step and every word is choreographed. Essentially, Trump was telegraphing to the world- and to North Korea- that he was just winging it to Singapore hoping for the best, and he would not have a problem if the process took time. Kim could walk away have gained a meeting, gained time, and simply running down the clock. 
 
 Yet, only a few days ago, Trump had demanded North Korea dismantle its nuclear weapons arsenal 'over a very short period of time,' and his Secretary of State Mike Pompeo had insisted on 'rapid denuclearization, total and complete, that won’t be extended over time.'
 
 In fact, the Singapore summit, the first meeting between a sitting American president and a North Korean leader, will be 'a getting-to-know-you meeting, plus,' Trump said, predicting that there would be 'probably others' before any resolution of the issues relating to North Korea’s nuclear and missile programs.
 
