MYSURU: Appealing to the people to help the party register victories in his home district, chief minister   on Friday launched a slew of developmental projects in the Periyapatna and Hunsur taluks, both of which are held by the Congress. This was Siddaramaiah’s second visit to Mysuru in a week, an indication that he is eager to ensure a good performance by the party in his home district before the dates for the polls are announced.

 Siddaramaiah, who told the people that he stood a chance of returning to power after the assembly polls, launched projects worth Rs 1,500 crore and Rs 170 crore in Periyapatna and Hunsur segments respectively. The JD(S) remains the Congress’ fiercest contender at both these segments. While the Congress has held these two segments for the past 10 years, the JD(S) is trying hard to wrest them, and has fielded former Congress leader Adagooru H Vishwanath from Hunsur.
 
 Siddaramaiah’s close associate K Venkatesh, who is the chairman of Bangalore Development Authority, currently represents Periyapatna. Venkatesh had followed Siddaramaiah into the Congress when the latter was expelled from the JD(S) in 2006. Despite demands from a section of the party leaders to appoint Venkatesh as a cabinet minister, the CM made him the chief of BDA. Siddaramaiah’s visit to Periyapatna, coupled with the launch of a slew of developmental projects there, comes against the backdrop of demands from some workers to replace Venkatesh with the chief of the Mysuru District Congress Committee BJ Vijaya Kumar.
 
 Exuding confidence of a Congress victory in the assembly elections, the CM said, “Both the BJP and JD(S) do not stand a chance. The Congress will be voted back to power in Karnataka, and I will be the chief minister.”
 
 Siddaramaiah said that both the JD(S) and BJP were ‘daydreaming’ of winning the elections. “The JD(S) does not have a strong footing in North Karnataka, while the BJP is an utter failure in the old Mysuru region,” he added.
 
 The CM said that, regardless of the number of times   Narendra Modi and BJP president   might make to the state ahead of the polls, they would be unable to prevent a Congress win. “The BJP has learnt that it will win only about 60 to 70 seats through an internal survey, and Modi and Shah have been visiting the state to try and increase that number to 80. But, even if they make 100 visits to the state, it will not make any difference because the people will give the mandate to the Congress that has given them schemes such as Anna Bhagya, Ksheera Bhagya, Anila Bhagya, etc,” Siddaramaiah said.
 
 Dubbing PM Modi a ‘liar’, Siddaramaiah said, “No other PM has lied as much as Modi after India became an independent nation. Through demonetisation, he said he would put an end to black money but he allowed defaulters to flee with thousands of crores. He has made a deal with defaulters and allowed them to escape the country.”
 
 Lashing out at the PM, who called the Congress government in the state a ‘10% commission Sarkar’, the CM said, “What is tragic is that he made these comments when he was sharing the dais with former CM  . Did he forget Yeddyurappa went to jail on corruption charges.”
 
 ‘What did Yeddyurappa give to the people?’
 
 Energy minister  , meanwhile, said the schemes initiated by the Congress in Karnataka were models for other states. “The Congress government has launched several pro-people schemes, which makes it a model state and other BJP-ruled states should emulate us,” said Shivakumar in Periyapatna.
 
 Taking a dig at the Yeddyurappa-led BJP government, Shivakumar asked, “What did Yeddyurappa give to the people? Only saris and a cycle.”
 
 Echoing Siddaramaiah’s observations, Shivakumar said that the Congress had fulfilled its poll promises made in the manifesto.
 
 
