NEW DELHI: An analysis of   in the capital over the past several years shows that most of these were reported from  .   and poorly organised large gatherings were two other places where fires had killed a sizeable number of people due to lack of proper entry-exit points.

 However, the capital’s most devastating fire was the Uphaar cinema blaze in 1997 that killed 59 people. At 57 casualties, the Lal Kuan chemical market fire in 1999 came close to it. Saturday’s fire at  , which has killed 17 people, is a wake-up call for Delhi as it shows not much has changed in the past two decades. Many incidents at factories do not get highlighted as workers often have a narrow escape. 
 
 In November 2011, 13 people died and 35 suffered serious burns when a major fire engulfed a community centre in Nand Nagri, northeast Delhi, where around 1,000 transgenders from across the country were holding a congregation. The fire broke out due to an electrical fault and most people died in a stampede as there was no clear sign indicating the exit gates. 
 
 Two years later, six factory workers, including four women, were killed and over a dozen sustained burns after a fire broke out in a packaging unit spread over three floors of a building in New Ranjit Nagar of central Delhi. 
 
 Another incident — similar to the Bawana fire — at a plastic manufacturing factory in Narela in September 2016 killed five people as they got buried under the debris as the building collapsed following a gas cylinder blast during the fire. After a night-long search, firemen and disaster relief personnel were able to bring the bodies out of the rubble. 
 
 Last April, six employees of a factory that manufactured electronic goods were burnt to death after a fire engulfed its five-storey building in Noida’s Sector 11. Another fire, which broke out in a slum cluster in Okhla Industrial Area in June, killed five people, including a six-year-old girl. Around a dozen people were trapped in the blaze and all but five were rescued by firemen. 
 
 Next month, four of a family, including two children, were killed due to asphyxiation after a fire broke out in a four-storey building in Dilshad Garden. 
 
 
