MANALI: Widespread   on Monday broke the long dry spell and rejuvenated hundreds of glaciers and drinking water sources of the state. The higher hills have been experiencing heavy snowfall since Sunday, that will benefit   and neighbouring states in summer.

 This is the third spell of snowfall this season. Drinking water sources in many parts of the state had almost dried up. Water level in major rivers, including Beas, Parvati, Satluj and  , had decreased. Power generation in hydel projects had plunged below 25%. Both day and night temperatures had increased abnormally. The snowfall in higher areas and rain in lower parts has finally brought cheer to people’s faces.
 
 Himachal has nearly 2,100 small and large glaciers, which have got new lease of life. Though the state has received very less snow and rain, this spell of snowfall has rejuvenated the dying water sources and controlled the increasing temperature, according to scientists.
 
 Senior scientist with GB Pant National Institute of Himalayan Environment and Sustainable Development Dr J C  , who is studying the impact of changing pattern of weather on the  , said this snowfall was expected in November and December but the shift in weather cycle has delayed it. “Snowfall always brings prosperity to both humans and environment. Accumulation of layer of snow on the glaciers and the peaks will store fresh water. Rain and snowfall have helped in settling down pollutants present in the air. This will also control the temperature and will help control many diseases,” he maintained.
 
 Bara Shigri, largest glacier of Himachal, Mukkila, Bhaga, Dhaka, Lady of Keylong, Bhadal, Gora, Chandra Nahan, Beas Kund, Miyar, Mani Mahesh, Perad, Parbati, Dudhon and other glaciers are covered with fresh layer of snow. The snowfall on the higher hills is expected to continue for the next 24 hours.
 
 The economy of Himachal is dependent mainly on apple, tourism and hydropower generation and all three depend on snowfall, Kuniyal added. 
 
 
