KOLKATA: A perceived lack of sensitivity by schools while responding to allegations of sexual abuse on students was due to the absence of an institutionalised mechanism to deal with such offences, experts felt. This, they said, also frustrated The POCSO Act, 2012, which among others tried to insulate children against abuse or secondary victimisation at the hands of multiple agencies involved in the justice delivery process.

 Birla Bharati School principal Apala Datta said from the new session, her institute would set up a sexual harassment cell (SHC) which she would chair and other teachers and staff representatives would be members. The cell will deal with all allegations under POCSO Act. The members have undergone a sensitisation session by the   (NCPCR). “We are forming a parentteacher association, the working committee of which will meet regularly and inspect the school if needed,” Datta added. The school, she said, had recruited eight woman attendants for schoolbuses. While woman sweepers and attendants will be at the girls’ toilets, they will accompany their male even while cleaning the floors.
 
 Educator and counsellor Jonaki Mukherjee pointed out that as part of the state’s efforts to sensitise schools on The POCSO Act 2012, emphasis was laid on a committee that would deal with such cases. “The idea here is to create a child-friendly environment where kids can lodge a complaint without any fear. We have such a panel at our school (DPS, Ruby Park) and that includes a counsellor,” said Mukherjee, adding an institutionalised approach would go a long way in addressing such issues by schools.
 
 Principal, Rammohan Mission School, Sujoy Biswas strongly feels after such incidents schools’ immediate intervention and appropriate action without any waste of time is the most essential requirement. Biswas is strong votary of training the school staff on psychological counselling. “After all faith and confidence are to be restored in the temple of learning at the earliest,” he said.
 
 Sunil Agarwal, founder-director of The Newtown School, said while it was necessary for every school to have an internal committee that would work under guidelines and policies, it was also important to ensure that all students were trained to approach the management whenever needed. “We must keep in mind that in such situations, the response time has to be fast and the committee may not get time to deliberate on the action plan. I feel we need a standard guideline for all schools for   surveillance. And most importantly, schools should have a security officer for constant surveillance,” he said.
 
 Against any external involvement, Jewish Girls’ School principal Indira Bhattacharyya argued that it would help if the principal and the authorities were proactive.
 
