Senior   lawyer and human rights activist H S Phoolka, who is also an AAP MLA from Dakha in Ludhiana, remembers the Delhi high court’s former Chief Justice Rajinder  , who passed away on Friday.

 I met Justice Rajinder Sachar first when he was hearing the cases related to 1984 carnage in the Delhi high court. He was considerate and had a very humane approach. His father Bhim Sen Sachhar had served as Punjab chief minister. Many know him for the Sachar committee report, which he prepared highlighting the social, economic and educational status of Muslims in India and considered him to be leaning towards the Congress. But being a champion of the human rights cause, he had turned against the   and then Prime Minister Indira Gandhi during the emergency. 
 
 When I appeared before him in the Delhi high court, with the cases of 1984 carnage victims, I saw him taking a firm stand in favour of victims. Soon after the 1984 killings, when the government wanted to close the relief camps beeing run for the victims, he took a firm stand against the move. He was the second senior most judge in the Delhi high court then.
 
 He was about to give directions for the formation of inquiry commission in December, 1984, when the roster was changed and these cases were taken away from him. Justice Sachar himself has been vocal about this episode and spoke about it various public platforms later.
 
 He was out and out a civil rights activist, who always stood for the cause of human rights.
 
 Later, I got a chance to work in close tandem with him as we were all the members of the Citizen Justice Committee. Former Chief Justice of India S M Sikri was its president and its members included former judges and jurists like Justice V M Tarkunde (retd), Justice R S Narula (retd) and Soli Sorabji, besides veteran journalist Kuldeep Nayyar.
 
 In fact, the entire strategy about the cases was made by them and I used to follow their instructions. It was during these interactions that I found Justice Sachar even going out of the way to help the needy. He used to spend money from his own pocket for them. He was a great motivation and I and others in the group also started following him.
 
 He had not been keeping well lately. Last I met him was about four months ago, when I was to appear for the hearing of Sajjan Kumar case.
 
 Incidents of human rights violation always concerned him. He always described the 1984 riots, Babri incident and 2002 riots in Gujarat as blots on our society. He was concerned about the problems of drugs and liquor. When in 2012, prior to assembly elections, I started a march against drugs and liquor in Punjab, he also joined in. Though he could not take part during the march, he regularly attended the meetings and put across his concerns in the meetings with the Election Commission. He always felt that the problems of drug and liquor were a serious threat to our democracy.
 
 He was a guiding force to many and his demise has left a big void. 
 
 (As told to Aditya Kant)
 
 
