NEW DELHI: The gems and jewellery industry is fearing a squeeze on bank credit following the alleged fraud at   (PNB) involving   and  , two high-profile players in the sector.

 
 Industry veterans said that in the past similar incidents have prompted the banks to slow down lending to the sector. "Either banks asked us for higher collaterals or extra margin for credit or other facilities," said Pankaj Parikh, a former vice-chairman of GJEPC.
 
 Another diamond merchant said that pressure would be felt more by the smaller players, who have fewer avenues to raise resources.
 
 They pointed to banks putting checks on lending, following the alleged Rs 6,800-crore fraud by Winsome Diamonds, which also involved PNB that had the highest exposure of Rs 1,800 crore. Last year too, the arrest of Nilesh Parekh of Shree Ganesh Jewellery in Kolkata had led to tightening of lending by banks.
 
  
  
 
 Apart from the alleged fraud of Rs 11,300 crore, banks also have an estimated loan exposure of around Rs 7,000 crore to the two diamond czars.
 
 In any case, bank lending to the gems and jewellery sector has remained muted with the total outstanding estimated at Rs 69,000 crore, according to RBI data ( see graphic).
 
 On Sunday, Gems and   (GJEPC) said that the alleged fraud at PNB is unlikely to have a contagion effect on the sector, where exports are estimated at $23 billion, with nearly a third being value-addition in India.
 
 It went on to suggest that the fraud was the result of "lacunae in internal control system and failure or lack of fraud protection measures within the public sector bank". The GJEPC said that there are strict lending norms put in place by the government and the RBI, and external audits and regulatory inspection. "On one hand GJEPC is struggling to garner financing to the gems and jewellery exporters, especially the SME export sector, who are required to give high collateral for the (credit) limit sanctioned to them, and here one finds this kind of clear advances being provided by a bank without any safeguards - that speaks volumes of irregularities that need to be thoroughly investigated," the council said.
 
 
