MUMBAI: Keen to get their association with the   (IPL) off to a cracking start, Star Sports, the new broadcasters of the league, is set to conduct a glitzy, first of its kind ceremony here on Thursday to announce the   player retentions.

 
 
 With the IPL auctions round the corner (on January 27 & 28 in Bangalore), there is a buzz around the event. The function will be attended by BCCI acting secretary Amitabh Chaudhary, IPL chairman Rajiv Shukla, and the owners of all the eight teams. The retentions would be announced by the respective franchises from 5-7pm, with the proceedings to be broadcast from 7pm on Star Sports.
 
 
 
 As expected, India skipper   (RCB) and his predecessor MS Dhoni (Chennai Super Kings) are set to be retained by their franchises. However, the problem for RCB, who would ideally want to retain AB de Villiers and Yuzvendra Chahal too, is that if they retain all their top three players, the amount cut from the Rs 80 crore salary cap could be more than half of the available fund, leaving them with little money to spend.
 
 Apart from Dhoni,  , who're returning to the IPL after a two-year ban post the spot-fixing scandal, are set to retain   and  , who both played for the Gujarat Lions in the past two editions of the IPL.
 
 Defending champions   will stick with skipper   and the Pandya brothers (Hardik and Krunal), while trying to hold on to Jasprit Bumrah and Kieron Pollard through Right-to-Match (RTM) cards. The idea behind retaining Krunal could be that being an uncapped Indian player, he can be retained for only Rs3 crore instead of Rs7 crore for third capped player.
 
 Sunrisers Hyderabad could retain skipper David Warner and pacer Bhuvneshwar Kumar, while Shikhar Dhawan could be bought back through the RTM card. There are talks that Delhi Daredevils may hold on to Shreyas Iyer and Rishabh Pant. The Rajasthan Royals may ask in-form Australian skipper Steve Smith to lead them again.
 
 Hemant Dua, CEO, Delhi Daredevils said: "We have started afresh many times. It's about maintaining continuity. Our strategy would be based upon the financial considerations of retaining certain players. Fans want to see continuity and performance so that they can look at associating certain players with the franchise in the long run".
 
 Former India skipper Sourav Ganguly, however, feels that the Daredevils shouldn't retain any player from its team, which failed to reach the knockouts last season. "No one should be retained and they should go with the full purse in the auction," Ganguly said.
 
 There's uncertainty over Gautam Gambhir continuing to lead Kolkata Knight Riders with reports suggesting that the 36-yearold may not be in the scheme of things of the team management.
 
 Like many, Ganguly too feels that CSK may keep Jadeja because of his all-round skills, including his electric fielding, even as they would try and retain India's Test off-spinner Ashwin through the RTM. "CSK would go ahead with Jadeja ahead of Ashwin, but they can always use the RTM with Ashwin," he concluded.
 
 
