TUTICORIN: Five days after the police firing on anti-Sterlite protesters left 13 people dead,   is inching close to normalcy with no major incidence of violence reported. However, tension prevailed at Kulathur after unidentified persons hurled petrol bombs at the police station near Vilathikulam shortly after midnight on Friday.

 Police said that only two constables were at the station on duty when the miscreants who came on a bike hurled two petrol bombs, partly damaging the name board of the station. Luckily, nobody was injured and no damage to property was reported in the incident. Of the nearly 330 government   plying in the district, 255 were operated during the day. Private buses too resumed operations in the evening while autorickshaws plied as usual. Almost half the number of commercial establishments besides hotels and eateries were open at many places. However there was an uneasy calm over the likely situation when the bodies were to be handed over to the families of the victims. More vehicles hit the road, showing signs of getting close to normalcy despite the signs of grief over the tragic incident.
 
 District collector Sandeep Nanduri told reporters that 168 metric tonnes of vegetables was sold in the market, where trade took place to the tune of Rs 50 lakh. He said that all hotels and eateries were open and that banks agreed to open ATMs soon. “Essential commodities and services have been restored,” he said. He expressed confidence that the city would be back to normal in two days. He said that the government had to take a decision on resuming internet services in the district.
 
  He claimed that he was unaware of the tweet by Anil Agarwal on reopening Sterlite and added that the government had taken steps to close the plant based on the rules.
 
 Superintendent of Police Murali Rambha said that the strength of police force would be gradually reduced as normalcy returned. “There were two incidents on Friday (bus burning and petrol bomb hurled at police station),” he said and claimed that there was no illegal detention in connection with the violence.
 
 Based on the Madras high court’s direction, Tuticorin district judge V Charuhasini visited the   and inquired with the injured victims of the riot on the treatment provided to them and asked them if they had any grievances. Political leaders including MMK founder M H Jawahirullah and Pazha Nedumaran visited the injured people and inquired about the incident. 
 
 Nedumaran told reporters that the National Human Rights Commission should come forward to probe the incident.Meanwhile, fishermen representatives who met officials of the Tuticorin district administration demanded that the state government pass a government order(GO) for permanent closure of Sterlite Copper, on Saturday. Collector Sandeep Nanduri and the SP, Murali Ramba, held a meeting with fishermen representatives and church priests. Thomas, Priest of St.Antony's Church, Tuticorin, said that they would accept the bodies only after the GO is issued.
 
 
