Jaisalmer: The principal bench of the Rajasthan High Court at Jodhpur has issued a notice to the state government over the elopement of a Hindu girl from Barmer with a Muslim youth from Jammu and Kashmir. The girl’s father had filed a habeaus corpus petition before the court in the matter.

 A division bench of Justice Sangeet Lodha and Justice Virendra Kumar Mathur has sought the government reply by April 20.
 
 Petitioner Ganesh Khandelwal has alleged that his daughter Ritu Khandelwal was kidnapped by a Kashmiri youth Gulzar Ahmad, who used to work as a waiter at a restaurant in Barmer and that the kidnapper was hiding the girl somewhere in Jammu and Kashmir.
 
 The girl’s family had filed a missing report with the local police when the girl went missing. The family claimed that the Kashmiri youth fabricated documents to claim that the girl has converted to Islam and that the two were now married.
 
 The family claimed that as per the fabricated documents, the girl is said to have accepted Islam out of her free will on December 20, 2017, on the ground that she was impressed with Islam. The parents disputed the documents and claimed that the girl was in Barmer on December 20, 2017, and was giving an examination. 
 
 Similarly, another document presented by the Kashmiri youth showed that the girl married him at Kupwara on December 30, 2017. The petitioner, however, claimed that his daughter was at her aunt's place in Mumbai from December 27, 2017 to January 4, 2018, so it was not possible that the duo got married on December 30, 2017.
 
 Gokulesh Bohra, counsel for girl’s father, told court that on March 16, Ritu was found missing. The family suspected foul play by the Kashmiri youth Gulzar Ahmad, who too suddenly went missing from Barmer. The court was told that the family believes that the girl’s life was in danger as there has been no clue of her since then.
 
 A team of Barmer police that went to Kupwara to get the girl’s statement recorded under CrPC section 164, returned empty handed. The team could not reach the Kashmiri youth’s house due to curfew, stone pelting and terror incidents in Kupwara, the police claimed. 
 
 SP Barmer, Gagandeep Singla said, “A team was sent to Kupwara but due to curfew and other adverse conditions it could not reach the youth’s house, although the local police extended complete support. After seven days the team had to return and the girl’s statements could not be recorded.”
 
 
