MOHALI: Upamanyu Yaddanapudi, a Class XII student of Yadvindra Public School (YPS)  , secured 97.7% to become the overall topper in the non-medical stream in Tricity in the Indian School Certificate ( ) examination. The   were declared on Monday. Another YPS student Pranav Raj has emerged as the topper in the medical stream in Tricity with 95.5%.

 Yaddanapudi didn’t expect to top the examination and therefore was taken aback when YPS School director Major General retired TPS Waraich told him he has become the overall topper in Tricity.
 
  
 Waraich congratulated the achievers and said, “We are very happy with the results. Our school children have brought laurels this year too.”
 
 For Yaddanapudi, this is the most memorable day of his life. He didn’t waste time and immediately called up his parents (both doctors) and shared the news. “I never expected to top Tricity. I expected to score somewhere near 94% but 97.75% is surprising to me also. My parents are elated,” Yaddanapudi said.
 
 Yaddanapudi’s aim is to become a mathematician and to join The   (IMSc), Chennai. “Mathematics is my favourite subject,” he smiled. When asked his score in mathematics, he sounded a bit disappointed and said, “I scored 97. I made three silly mistakes. But I would not repeat the same in the future.”
 
 In the non-medical stream, Prabhmeh Sandhu scored 90% and Manraj Singh Johal scored 87.5%, thus bagging the second and third position in school respectively.
 
 Meanwhile, Pranav aspires to become a doctor. “My aim is to become a cardio surgeon. I am satisfied with my marks. However, I never expected to top Tricity in the medical stream. I am active on social media and use it as a stressbuster but never let it dominate my mind and lose focus on studies,” said Pranav. Pranav’s father is a businessman and her mother a teacher.
 
 Samar Gill and Parima have scored 90.5% and 88.5% respectively in the medical stream and have stood second and third in their school.
 
 “56 students appeared for ISC 2018 examination. The pass percentage is 100%. All 56 students scored first division marks,” Waraich said.
 
 For Ravleen, who topped Tricity in the commerce stream, hardwork is the key to success. Her parents recently shifted to Lucknow and she missed her parents on the big day. “I wish they were here today. My father has always inspired me and I want to be like him,” she said. Her father, Ranveer Singh Malhotra, is an assistant general manager with a private company and her mother is a mathematics tutor. She said social media did not divert her attention. “It depends on how you use it,” she smiled.
 
 Samkiti Jain topped Tricity in the humanities stream. She aspires to become a lawyer. She draws her inspiration from her parents, who are advocates. “She has always been a good student,” said her mother Peeyushi Diwan Jain. She loves playing with her pet dog and said it acts as a stress buster.
 
 
 
