GURUGRAM: Five months after he was paraded by the police as the murderer of a seven-year-old student in a CBSE school in Gurugram,   was on Wednesday acquitted of all charges by a local court. 
 
 The CBI had earlier given a clean chit to Ashok, who was arrested as the prime accused by Gurugram police within a few hours of the September 8 murder. Kumar was also booked under Section 302 (murder) of the IPC, and under sections of the Arms Act and the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. Ashok was granted bail on November 21 after the CBI took over the probe and detained a Class XI student of the same school for the murder. 
  
 Two officials of the school — Francis Thomas and Jayesh Thomas, booked under the Juvenile Justice Act for negligence but currently out on bail — were directed to appear before the court on April 10. 
  
 Additional sessions judge J S Kundu, while discharging Ashok of all charges, observed CBI had not found any evidence against him. “No evidence has come on record to substantiate the involvement of conductor Ashok Kumar in committing the murder of the child. No traces of sexual assault were found. No blood stain was found on his clothes either. Ashok’s presence inside the washroom has been explained and found to be justified and true, based on independent versions of several witnesses and minute analysis of CCTV footage,” read CBI’s preliminary chargesheet, filed on February 5. 
  
 The boy was found with his throat slit just outside the washroom on September 8. The police theory was that Ashok had tried to sexually assault the boy in the washroom and attacked him when he resisted. Ashok’s counsel Mohit Verma said he will now file a case against Gurugram police for compensation. “Ashok was falsely implicated by police and subjected to mental and physical torture in custody,” said Verma. 
  
 “The court has directed CBI to speed up the probe and file a final chargesheet by April 10,” said advocate Sushil Tekriwal, who is representing the murdered boy’s father. “CBI had filed a partial chargesheet against the juvenile accused on February 5. In it, CBI has named only the juvenile as accused of the murder. The chargesheet, which runs into 1,500-odd pages, elaborates the role of the juvenile in the crime, and explains why Ashok was given a clean chit. Though it tore into the police probe, it hasn’t pointed at any police official as accused, and is completely silent on the role of school officials.” 
  
 Tekriwal said the court has also directed that the two FIRs— one filed by Gurugram police, the other by CBI — be merged. “Two FIRs were merged by the court to avoid multiplicity of litigations,” said Tekriwal, adding the court has directed further proceedings in the case to be conducted only on the basis of CBI’s FIR, filed on September 24. 
  
 “The conspiracy and criminal intent to torment and incriminate the innocent conductor in the murder stands exposed. So is the meticulous planning to send the innocent to the gallows by cops of the SIT,” said Tekriwal, adding that police brutality and misconduct had become a trend, and that the guilty should not go unpunished. 
  
 The court fixed March 10 for the final hearing of the appeal filed by the juvenile challenging the order to treat him as an adult. 
  
  
