LUDHIANA: Income tax officials on Friday conducted raids at least 25 locations across three states in connection with the alleged multi-crore sand mining scam in Punjab, involving former state power and irrigation minister   Singh. The sleuths raided offices of the companies spread across Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Chandigarh, including those where the former minister's son, Rana Inder Partap, is a stake-holder. 

 The 25 locations include homes and offices of businessman Sanjit Randhawa and chartered accountant firm Kansal Singla & Associates. Some 250-odd I-T officials, apart from a large number of police officials, are involved in the raids which started at 8 amsimultaneously at all locations. All attempts to contact Gurjit failed.
 
 Soon after the Congress government took over in Punjab in 2017, Amit Bahadur, Gurjit's former cook, had bagged the contract for a sand mine at   village in   with a bid of Rs 26.51 crore. Three other former employees of Gurjit's firm Rana Sugars Ltd had successfully bid for mines worth Rs 4.11 crore, Rs 9.21 crore and Rs 10.58 crore. This had led to allegations that all four were fronts for Gurjit who had allegedly sponsored them. Gurjit, however, insisted that he had nothing to do with his ex-employees.
 
 Some of the companies that were raided include Rana Sugars, Rana Polycot and Rajbir Enterprises. When contacted, Income Tax department's principal director Parneet Sachdev refused to give details.
 
 The department had started investigating the alleged scam in July 2017 and initially sought bank account details and the source of money deposited by Gurjit's four ex-employees - Kulwinder Paul, Balraj Singh, Gurvinder Singh and Bahadur from Punjab government. It had also sought details about the quarries they had invested in.
 
 Investigations had revealed that a common source had deposited the money in bank accounts of all four ex-employees of the minister. Following the development, chief minister Captain   had set up   to probe the scam and it had given a clean chit to Gurjit.
 
 On January 5, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) had issued summons to Gurjit's son for alleged violation of the Foreign Exchange Management Act (FEMA) after he allegedly raised $ 18 million by floating foreign shares. The minister had finally resigned from the cabinet on January 16.
 
 Gurjit, who is Kapurthala MLA, was the richest candidate in fray in the Punjab assembly elections held in Fubruary 2017. He, along with his wife, had immovable assets worth Rs 169.88 crore in 2017. Known to be close to Amarinder, the 61-year-old businessman-turned-politician has interests in distilleries, sugar mills and solar power. He owns distilleries and sugar mills in Uttar Pradesh as well.
 
 
