MYSURU: A day after chief minister   said he knew where JD(S) chief H D Kumaraswamy met   president Amit Shah to strike an understanding between the two parties, the former CM on Saturday hit back saying Siddaramaiah is dreaming.

 
 “He must have pictured our meeting in his dream,” Kumarswamy said denying the purported meeting ever took place. “If he has proof of the meeting, let him release it,” he told reporters here.
 
 Siddaramaiah, who has dubbed the JD(S) as the B team of the BJP, during AICC chief Rahul Gandhi’s rallies in Gonikoppal in Kodagu district and at Periyapatna in his home turf Mysuru district, claimed to have details of the meeting between Kumaraswamy and Shah. According to him, the two met to strike an understanding.
 
 They have met twice, he claimed. “During the first meeting, they discussed about a political understanding while during the second meeting, they struck the deal,’’ he stated adding: “I know the places they met and what was discussed.”
 
 An angry Kumaraswamy shot back: “I’m living in my dreams (to return the party to power). Why should I meet Shah? Is Shah the JD(S) national president for me to meet him? What is the need? ”He sought to turn tables on Siddaramaiah accusing the CM of contacting the BJP to get his son Yathindra elected from Varuna segment. “I know whom Siddaramaiah contacted and how he operated so that   was denied a ticket,” he stated referring to dumping of the   general secretary at the last minute.
 
 Vijayendra had rented a house in Varuna segment, conducted puja before moving in with his family and campaigned projecting himself as the candidate. “Who stalled his march? It is Siddaramaiah.” According to Kumaraswamy, it is Siddaramaiah who is in contact with the BJP leaders.
 
 He asked the CM to explain about the money IT sleuths seized from contractors in the state.
 
 
 
 While addressing party workers at  , a Marathidominated area in Chikkodi taluk, the CM apologized for his inability to converse in Marathi. He was campaigning for the party’s Nippani candidate Kakasaheb Patil and Chikkodi candidate Ganesh Hukkeri. “Sorry, I don’t know Marathi,’’ Siddaramaiah told the crowd.
 
