PATNA: Director of  , Patna,  , who attended the Passenger Terminal Expo-cum-conference held in Stockholm, Sweden, from March 20 to 22, was impressed with a stall exhibiting virtual passenger induction equipment, which has been installed in the security hold area (SHA) at some of the major airports across the world.

 “The stall of a France-based airport exhibited the virtual passenger induction equipment. It projected a virtual image of football star Lionel Messi explaining the security procedures to passengers while they were entering the SHA. Passengers were being told about the prohibited items and the procedures to be followed for boarding. I will propose installation of a similar equipment at the new terminal building of  ,” Lahauria said.
 
 Work on development of the new terminal building with an expenditure of Rs 800 crore is expected to commence from April. As per a detailed project report prepared by Singapore-based firm Meinhardt (Singapore) Pte Ltd, the new terminal building will be a two-storey structure equipped with six aerobridges and other state-of-the-art facilities.
 
 Lahauria said he would propose several other new facilities for improving passenger services and flight operations based on observations made at the conference.
 
 Lahauria had presented a paper on ‘Working on constrained airport’ at the conference. He also gave a live demonstration on the proposals for development of the Patna airport. “I will propose installation of in-line x-ray machine, automated luggage screening system and full body scanner at the new terminal building,” he said.
 
 He added these facilities would enhance passenger satisfaction at the airport. As per the economy survey of   for the fiscal 2017-18, the number of passengers flying from Patna airport increased from 1.76 lakh in 2004-05 to 21.12 lakh in 2016-17, a growth from 483 passengers per day to 5,787 per day during the same period. The average daily footfall at the city airport stands at around 7,000 passengers. However, the total seating capacity of the passenger holding area is just 1,000.
 
 
