Despite framing strict rules against burning   in the open, no action is taken to stop the practice which continues unabashed in the city.

 Around two years ago, Lucknow Municipal Corporation had prohibited the act and decided to penalise sanitary workers if they were found burning garbage in the open. However, there is hardly any implementation as several such instances are reported from around the city everyday.
 
 Because of lack of supervision by   officials and its laxity to impose penalty on offenders, many sweepers burn waste on the roadsides between 5am and 6am. As a result, residents of surrounding areas often complain of breathing problems, headache and nasal congestion as thick smoke covers the area.
 
 At Ram Ram Bank crossing in Aliganj, sweepers dump garbage, polythene and solid waste on a huge vacant plot and burn it. A thick smog envelopes the locality and residents say that garbage can be seen burning round the clock.
 
 Poonam Arora, a resident, said, “Our morning begins with breathing heavily polluted air. No one is checking this practice despite LMC strictly banning   in the open. Several polythene bags are burnt overnight releasing poisonous gases. Is LMC totally indifferent to the risk we daily face?”
 
 According to LMC rules, if a sanitary worker is found burning garbage, a day’s wages would be deducted from his/her salary. Any other person committing the same offence would be liable to pay a penalty of Rs 500 to LMC or face challan. However, LMC records show that in the past two years, only about 15 workers have been caught every month despite several colonies reporting about the offence frequently. There are thousands of sanitary workers on duty everyday.
 
 Besides, LMC has failed to nab private sweepers committing the offence.
 
 Everyday, one can see burning garbage heaps along La Touche Road, Lalbagh and Kaiserbagh in the early morning.
 
 Amita Jaiswal of La Touche Road said, “Since the road has many electronics and cycle repair shops, all waste from them is thrown on roads and burnt by sweepers in the morning. This chokes our lungs.”
 
 LMC’s official in charge said, “Our supervisors are mandated to stop the practice. We catch 10-15 workers every month and deduct their salaries. People should also be conscious and avoid burning garbage in the open. If anyone sees a sweeper burning garbage, they should immediately report to LMC.”
 
  
  
 
