COIMBATORE: Anna University has set up servers and network at a cost of Rs 1 crore for online engineering counselling, which would be introduced from this year, secretary of the Tamil Nadu Engineering Admissions ( ) Rhymend   said here on Saturday. 

 Online counselling would make the process easy and would not require students and parents travel to Chennai, he said while speaking at an event organised by Sri Ramakrishna Educational Institutions in the city to create awareness about the counselling. “The government has also set up TNEA facilitation centres (TFCs) in 42 places across the state, to aid students who have no internet in their home. For trial run, we had asked around 5,000 second semester students from colleges across the state to use the counselling portal and made sure it was student-friendly. Students should take up filling the online forms in the portal by themselves and should not rely on their parents to do it,” he said.
 
 There are three payment gateways to pay application fee and two of them did not levy operation charges, the official said. “We have also ensured maximum safety in the portal. For completing every important steps, users would have to enter a one-time password sent to their mobile phones,” he said.
 
 The online counselling process would be held in three phases. The first, submission of applications online, which can be done from home and for the second, certificate verification, students should go to one of the 42 TFCs, which they can choose when registering. The third phase - choosing the college and course – can be done from home. This will be held for five rounds of five days each, said Uthariaraj. 
 
 Also, students who have no internet facility at home can access the TNEA portal from any of the 42 TFCs for submitting applications and also choosing colleges and courses, Uthariaraj said. “In Coimbatore, TFCs have been set up at Coimbatore Institute of Technology, Government College of Technology and Anna University Regional Centre. At the TFCs, students would be shown a video on the online counselling process and will also be given a booklet on the colleges,” he said. 
 
 
