CHANDIGARH: The   home department has asked all the deputy commissioners (DCs) to send a report if they feel that the Justice   recommendations cannot be implemented. The DCs have further been directed not to pay compensation to victims as it was to be decided by the government.

 According to information, some of the DCs in Punjab have expressed reservations over implementing the recommendations of the commission headed by Justice   (retired) in view of the facts and legal complexity. The commission is probing the complaints regarding registration of false cases during the past 10-year SAD-BJP regime.
 
 A senior officer in the home department told TOI that certain deputy commissioners had telephonically sought clarification regarding the course of action to be taken in those cases where the competent authority didn’t find it feasible to implement some recommendations by the commission.
  
  
 Since August 23 last year, the commission has submitted five interim reports to chief minister Amarinder Singh and has not only recommended cancellation of 258 false cases but also payment of compensation to the victims by recovering it from the erring police officials. The home department claims that till date around 80% of false FIRs have been cancelled as recommended by the commission. Constituted by the Amarinder Singh-led Congress government on April 5 last year, the commission had received a total number of 4,371 complaints till July 31 last year. It has examined 655 complaints till date, of which 397 have been dismissed.
 
 Issuing clarity on the issue, the home secretary has written to all the DCs that they need not take any action with regard to payment of compensation to the victims of false cases as the “matter is under consideration of the government.”
 
 Further, the home secretary has clarified that the process of recommending cancellation of an FIR to a court has to be undertaken only by the authority competent to do so after following the provisions of law in general and section 321 of the code of criminal procedure(CrPC) in particular. “In case the competent authority is of the view that recommendations of the commission should not be implemented in view of the provisions of law or in view of the facts and circumstances of the case before him/her, it must make a report with reasons in this regard and send a copy of it to the home department,” reads the communication dated February 2.
 
 The home secretary has also conveyed that as far as initiating criminal proceedings against persons who were responsible for getting false FIRs registered is concerned, such action is to be taken strictly as per the provisions of law in general and section 182 of Indian Penal Code (false information with intent to cause public servant to use his lawful power to the injury of another person) in particular. The DCs have been conveyed that for initiating disciplinary action against government employees, the competent authority must take action only as per government instructions from time to time and as per the facts and circumstances of the case before them. In case, the officer feels disciplinary action against the employee is not implementable, he should send a detailed report with reasons.
 
 
