DHARAMSHALA: Heavy footfall of visitors is taking a heavy toll on Triund, one of the most popular trekking spots in  .

 Unable to handle tourists’ pressure, Triund is losing sheen and its water sources are getting polluted.
 
 Sources said water contamination is or will become a reality soon as there is no sanitation facility at this peak where people put up tents to stay.
 
 Many travel agencies across the country offer packages on internet with a tie up with local people in   near  .
 
 Parveen Kumar, divisional forest officer, said they have reports that huge number of tourists are reaching this place, even more than its capacity.
 
 “We are going to restrict the numbers as there are complaints that heavy footfall of people is taking toll on water sources and natural beauty of the area. The tourist flow has increased manifolds,” he said.
 
 Things are in process and zones will be identified to set up tents now, he added.
 
 “Only 500 visitors will be allowed to visit Triund and only 100 persons will be given permission to stay. E-toilet concept is also being thought of. We are going to implement these norms and new facilities before the upcoming season,” he said.
 
 Sanjay Sharma, a tourism inspector, said visitors put up a large number of tents all around this peak, but there is no space for toilets which is leading to environmental pollution.
 
 “I have seen it myself and raised this issue with the authorities concerned. There should be some restrictions, otherwise we may lose a place full of natural beauty,” he said.
 
 One can reach Triund after trekking 8 kms from Dharamkot area near McLeodganj. This spot is most popular among youths working in Delhi, Chandigarh and Gurgaon.
 
 “Packages for Triund were mostly purchased by the youths working in corporate firms in and around Delhi. They use to spend their weekend here only and stay in tent accommodations,” said Parveen Kumar, a local.
 
 Inquires revealed that people use to charge more than double rates of water and food items here.
 
 
