NOIDA: The residents of Sector 51 have expressed concern about rampant   in and around the sector, despite a high court order directing   to remove   in the area. 

 According to residents, the Allahabad high court had on January 21, 2015 directed the Noida Authority to remove illegal encroachments in the sector and raise a boundary wall between blocks C, D, E and F of Sector 51 and neighbouring village Hoshiyarpur to secure the sector from further encroachment by the villagers.   RWA said that apart from the delay in implementing the HC order, which came after the RWA filed a PIL in 2015, the villagers of Hoshiyarpur have been illegally constructing buildings on the disputed land.
 
 On Wednesday night, some villagers started more illegal constructions with earthmovers near the sector despite the residents’ protests, they said. The RWA have asked the Noida Authority, city police and district magistrate on why they were not taking any action to comply with the orders of the Allahabad high court.
 
 “The RWA, Sector 51 had filed a PIL in Allahabad high court in 2015 seeking removal of illegal encroachments in and around Sector 51 as well as the construction of a boundary wall between the sector and Hoshiyarpur. The court had ruled that Noida Authority has to ensure that there is no encroachment on the roads, as traffic on the roads is increasing and such encroachments not only lead to traffic congestion, but also endanger the residents’ safety. The Authority has also to ensure that vacant plots are not encroached and that the sector is secured by a boundary wall for the benefit of the residents,” said Sanjeev Kumar, general secretary, Sector 51 RWA.
 
 While Noida Authority began complying with the order, some villagers filed a petition challenging the order. The high court then ruled on February 25, 2015 that “until further orders of this court, status quo with respect to the nature and possession over the land in dispute, as it exists today, shall be maintained by the parties.”
 
 However, villagers continued constructing buildings on the disputed land. “We have complained to concerned officials several times. The continued disregard of the HC order only shows the failure on part of the Authority, police and district magistrate in taking action to comply with the orders,” Kumar said.
 
 
