NEW DELHI: In the next couple of years, the travel from Delhi to   via Loni and Baghpat in Western UP through congested and poorly constructed roads, will become a thing of the past. The   will expand the 140km road connecting Wazirabad road in East Delhi to Saharanpur to four lanes. The road will be widened with full government funding.

 
  
 
 
 NHAI has divided the entire corridor into three packages. “We will invite bids for the priority stretch of about 45 km from Baghpat (meeting point of Eastern Peripheral  ) to Shamli bypass in June. Then we will bid out the work for Shamli to Saharanpur. The portion between Delhi and Baghpat will be taken up as third package. We will be able to complete the entire stretch in the next 2-3 years,” said an official. 
 
 Currently, it’s a two-lane road and the stretches falling in Uttar Pradesh are in bad condition. Travelling on   stretch in the sugarcane belt of UP is a traffic nightmare.
 
 He added since the third package will require building of elevated stretches, it will take a few months to prepare the detailed plan for execution. “Once the road is built, it will provide seamless connectivity from Akshardham on NH-24 to Saharanpur. The road between NH-24 and Wazirabad road has been widened by the Delhi public works department. A couple of more flyovers have to be built in Delhi portion for through traffic heading towards Loni in Ghaziabad,” an NHAI official said.
 
 To avoid any delay in the execution of the project, the government won’t acquire any land. The right of way (RoW) of 30 metres is available with the government to carry out the expansion. Sources said it will be enough to build four-lane divided carriageways and service road to meet the demand.
 
 There is also a proposal to build a parallel eight-lane greenfield expressway between Delhi and Saharanpur along river Yamuna to meet the growing traffic demand and to decongest the NH-1, which connects Delhi with Chandigarh. “The detailed project report for this project is under preparation,” said a highway ministry official.
 
 Last November, Delhi-Saharanpur highway was declared as National Highway (NH-709B) to enable the Centre to take up the development of this crucial link.
 
 
