SOUTH 24 PARGANAS: Fatema Bibi is among the nine candidates from Bhangar who had to submit nominations via WhatsApp to the State Election Commission to escape “obstructions from the ruling party”. Little did she know what was in store even after the   upheld all the nine nominations on Tuesday.

 
 
 The Uttar Gajipur gram panchayat candidate and her husband Zakir Molla had even shifted from her home at Trinamool leader Arabul Islam’s turf to a “safe” location prodded by the Save Land, Livelihood, Home and Environment Committee Fatema belongs to. At around 9am on Friday, miscreants allegedly led by Arabul’s son Hamidul ransacked Fatema’s home and took away her two sons   and Riajul to an undisclosed location.
 
 According to committee secretary Miraj Hasan, the Trinamool toughs then made the two sons call their parents at gunpoint and threatened Fatema of dire consequences if she didn’t withdraw from the fray. Yet again, the committee members took to WhatsApp and lodged a complaint with the SEC, superintendent of police and officer in charge of the Kashipur PS in South 24 Parganas. Technology also helped them to send voice records of the threat call that the local police couldn’t discount.
 
 Soon after the news spread in the locality, these men were seen taking the two sons to the local police station. They were mobbed on the way to the police station by the committee members who snatched Najmul from them, but couldn’t get back Riajul. The men took Riajul to the local police station to show that he was safe and later returned him home.
 
 However, brothers of a prominent committee leader  , are still missing. Members complained that miscreants abducted Rahim’s two brothers —Manikalu Molla and Abdul Hai Molla — to take revenge on Rahim because he is the one who had convinced another candidate   to contest the polls. Police claimed that they are not aware of the second incident.
 
 Superintendent of police Arijit Sinha is yet to take Fatema’s ordeal on face value. “There is confusion over the abduction episode. The boy has told the police that he and his brother had got in touch with the local Trinamool men because they didn’t want their parents to contest the polls. We are yet to ascertain facts,” the SP said.
 
 Trinamool leader Arabul Islam has flatly denied the charge. “I was away from Bhangar for the whole day and was busy in Kolkata on a legal matter. This is abaseless allegation,” Arabul said.
 
 In yet another incident, a person was killed in sporadic clashes between two Trinamool groups at   under Joynagar police station area in South 24 Parganas.
 
 A group of 25 armed people, allegedly supporters of Nazrul Gazi, an independent candidate contesting from Chaltaberia panchayat, raided local Trainamool leader Noorbox Gazi’s house and wanted Trinamool candidate Saiful Laskar to withdraw his nomination. “In the midst of this attack, someone fired from this group and the bullet hit my daughter-in-law Selima. She was serving food then. She was immediately rushed to hospital where she was declared brought dead,” a local Trinamool leader said.
 
 
 
 
