BATHINDA: Bathinda police have registered three more cases for defacement of signboards in Hindi or English at various government offices on April 1. With representatives of the income tax department, Bathinda post office and   making written complaints about defacement of their signboards, police on Wednesday registered three cases under charges of Prevention of Damage to Public Property Act, 1984, Punjab Prevention of Defacement Property Ordinance Act, 1997 and Section 427 (mischief causing damage) of the IPC.

 Police have also identified Malwa Youth Federation activist   alias Lakha Sidhana and Dal Khalsa vice-president Hadeep Singh Mehraj as those behind the defacement of signboards along with their accomplices. Raids were being conducted to arrest Lakha and Hardeep.
 
 Meanwhile, Punjabi language supporters have assailed police for registering cases, saying while the state government made claims of promoting Punjabi, those raising their voice for the mother tongue were being booked. 
 
 Activists under the banner of   had on April 1 started a campaign to promote Punjabi and decided to deface boards where Hindi or English were written above Punjabi. On the night of April 1, some persons had defaced signboards outside the I-T office, post office and PNB branch situated in the Bathinda district administrative complex.
 
 “We are not scared of the cases. We are working for the cause of Punjabi. We approached the authorities to write Punjabi on signboards. When no one listened to us, we adopted the path of defacing the boards where Hindi or English was given prominence over Punjabi. We will continuing doing so till Baisakhi. Police visited my house but I was not there,” said Mehraj. 
 
 Bathinda senior superintendent of police (SSP) Naveen Singla said though earlier a case was registered as per information received by the police from their own sources, now the representatives of various government offices had given a written representation to book those who defaced public property.
 
 
