Nagpur: While police crack down on vendors of illicit liquor in Wardha and even arrest them, there is little happening against the supply of kharra and tobacco in the district. TOI on January 14 had reported on the growing consumption of tobacco and kharra among children as young as 12 years in Gawandi and other villages in Karanja Gadge tehsil. It was found that there was no medical remedy offered by the district rural hospital too. Speaking on if any action has been taken by the police in Wardha, DCP Nirmala Devi told TOI that the department’s sole focus was illicit liquor. “Every two months there is a crackdown programme for alcohol, where maximum transporters getting foreign liquor are arrested. I’ve seen young boys indulge in desi daaru but we can’t take any action against drunkards,” she said, adding that the department was overloaded with the issue of liquor in itself.  Devi said that the responsibility for awareness creation should be taken up by NGOs and that police have taken part in organizing awareness camps in Wardha city. Kharra was banned by the congress and NCP government but they did nothing to implement it, said Paromita Goswami, a noted social worker and activist based in Chandrapur. “Over-availability and role models within the family were the major causes of tobacco and kharra consumption among young adults. The same situation also exists in the neighbouring district Chandrapur and is the same everywhere in Vidarbha. It is because something like this is available so freely around the corner for 365 days,” she said, adding that tobacco consumption is on the rise in various forms and kharra is a way it is consumed in Vidarbha. “It is quite popular among men, women and now children. When you over-supply addictive substance, something like this is bound to happen,” she added. She said some of the schools are taking the initiative to become ‘tobacco-free’ but nothing beyond that. It is an uphill task because the moment child steps out for school, he is surrounded by kharra or tobacco. “There is a social acceptance to the consumption of tobacco. Nobody thinks of it as a bad habit. Rather, only as a habit,” says Dr Pankaj Wasadkar, a clinical psychologist in Amravati where too the situation is no different. Dr Shrikant Deshmukh, a general physician at Baba de-addiction centre in Amravati, says that 11 years ago when he joined the centre, there used to be about 2-3 cases of addiction. But at present, at any given point in time, there are over 60 patients in the clinic and that the situation has seen an alarming rise.  Some of the most common symptoms of over consumption are cancer, oral cavities, ulcers or burning of the abdomen. “In addicted individuals, the nerves and brain get affected, and they feel fatigued very soon,” he said, adding that the children belong to poor community and not much importance is given to their health. “I’ve seen a six-year-old boy drinking alcohol in front of his parents. A child identifies with his father and tries to become like him,” he said. According to a 2014 report on Economic Burden of Tobacco Related Diseases in India, the total tobacco use from all diseases in India in 2011, for persons aged between 35-69, amounted to Rs1,04,500. Maharashtra is one of the four states, the others being West Bengal, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh, which together contribute 60% of disease burden from tobacco attributable cardio vascular diseases. 