Chandigarh: The central ministry of environment has given their   to prosecute Indian forest service (IFS) officer Birender Choudhary who was arrested in a graft case. Though The chargesheet against Choudhary had already been filed in special court of CBI. But, the charges against him could not have been be proved, had the authorities not given the permission to prosecute him. The CBI court had been awaiting the sanction since long and now, the charges against Birender Choudhary would be framed soon. 

 IFS officer Choudhary was arrested in a graft case whereby he was caught red-handed while accepting a bribe of Rs 1 lakh.
 
 Under Section 19 of the Prevention of Corruption Act, CBI needs to have the sanction from the central government for launching prosecution against a public servant from All India Services and accordingly the CBI has got the sanction. 
 
 The CBI has chargesheeted him under Section 7 (public servant taking gratification other than legal remuneration in respect of an official act), 13(1)(D) (if he,—(i) by corrupt or illegal means, obtains for himself or for any other person, any valuable thing or pecuniary advantage; or (ii) by abusing his position as a public servant, obtains for himself or for any other person, any valuable thing or pecuniary advantage; or (iii) while holding office as a public servant, obtains for any person, any valuable thing or pecuniary advantage without any public interest) of Prevention of Corruption Act. The bulky chargesheet filed by CBI runs around 1,500 pages. The CBI has also mentioned the names of more than 25 prosecution witnesses and their statements have also been recorded in the chargesheet. The CBI, also, has given references of other corruption cases going on against Birender Chaudhury in other states.
 
 Choudhary, an IFS officer and also a member-secretary of Chandigarh Pollution Control Committee (CPCC), UT was caught redhanded while accepting a bribe of Rs 1 lakh cash on July 17, last year. Rajinder Kumar, owner of the private firm had filed a complaint to the CBI and alleged that the IFS has been demanding bribe for revoking of consent issued to the complainant by the accused. Rajinder had alleged that he received a showcause notice on December 6, 2016. After that, he met Choudhary to explain his version but the he did not hear him properly. Three other firm owners with similar issue had also met Choudhary. It was also alleged that earlier, Choudhary demanded Rs 50,000 from each for not taking any action against them. Later, the alleged bribe amount was reduced to Rs 25,000 each. Hence, Choudhary demanded a total of Rs 1 lakh cash from the four businessmen.
 
 It was further mentioned that CBI tapped the conversation between Choudhary and the businessmen. The accused asked the victims to come his place in Sector 27 to hand him over the bribe money and this is where CBI had laid a trap. Then, on the night of July 17, as the complainant Rajinder handed over the money to Choudhary, the CBI sleuths arrested him along with the bribe money. CBI claimed that while searching his house, they recovered Rs 2 lakhs cash and documents pertaining to properties and bank accounts.
 
 
