PUNE: The city police on Monday said some more people besides the two shooters were involved in the murder of developer  .

 Deputy commissioner of police (zone I) Basavraj Teli said, “We suspect more people are involved in the case. Definitely, money was an issue in the murder, which is being probed.”
 
 He said, “We are also exploring the underworld link to the case considering that it is not yet known how the suspects got the firearms. Because of this, we suspect that a few others are involved in the case.”
 
 Shah was shot dead in the parking area of his residence, Sayali apartments, off Prabhat Road on the night of January 13. On Sunday, one of the two shooters, Ravi Sadashiv  , was arrested from Jalgaon. A resident of Manikbagh on  , he was brought here later.
  
  
 Chorge was produced before a magisterial court here on Monday afternoon. Judicial magistrate first class V B Gulve-Patil sent him in police remand till January 29.
 
 Deputy commissioner of police Teli said, “A team headed by senior inspector Ajay Kadam nabbed Chorge from a hotel in Jalgaon following a tip-off. He was in the hotel for the past two days. Our team is following the other suspect and he will be nabbed soon.”
 
 Teli said the investigators were yet to recover the firearms used in the crime, but they had identified the location where the suspects dumped the motorcycle. “The motive behind the crime is not yet clear. The police are studying the case and many angles are coming up. The police will quiz Chorge to find out the motive behind the crime. The real motive would be identified after cross-checking the facts with the other suspect once he is arrested,” he said, adding that both the suspects were working as real estate agents.
 
 Teli said, “After killing Shah, the two suspects went to Mahad and Khopoli in Konkan, Dehu Road, Thane and   in Madhya Pradesh. After visiting Burhanpur, the two split and it is not known where the other suspect is.”
 
 The police have now decided to study the land deals in which Shah paid money to several parties. It is suspected that one of the parties, who had bought the land with Shah, was not happy with the deal and incited the two suspects to kill him.
 
 
