MEERUT: Hundreds of migrant labourers were left homeless on early Thursday morning as a massive fire reduced to ashes about 200 houses at a slum in city's Aashiyana colony situated in   area. As many as 15 fire tenders were pressed into service to douse the flames, which started at 3.35 am. The fire engines took over seven hours to tame the blaze.

 
  
  
 
 Incidentally, this is a second incident of fire in Ashiyana colony in the last one-and-a-half months. Earlier, as many as 100 houses were reduced to ashes due to a spark from a matchstick or a short circuit - which is still under investigation. Thursday's fire incident burnt not only the new houses that had come up again in place of the burnt ones, but also the ones which were not affected by the fire which gutted the slum on March 26, 2018.
 
  
  
 
 "The incident took place at 3.35am on Thursday, soon after which fire tenders were pressed into action. As many as 15 fire tenders were brought into action including 11 from Meerut district, and four others from Muzaffarnagar, Modinagar and Hapur. While no casualty was reported, nearly 200-250 houses got burnt in the fire,” said Mukesh Kumar, officiating Meerut chief fire officer.
 
  
  
 
 While the reason behind the fire is being investigated, the authorities say that prima facie it looks like a short circuit led to it.
 
 Since the shanties were made of wood and plastic material, the blaze spread instantly, fire department officials said. “Since the slum was packed with plastic, wood and paper material, it became even more difficult to douse the fire - which spread instantly,” said Kumar.
 
 People living in the slums belonged to Assam, who settled in the city about 10 years ago. Most of them worked as rag pickers to earn livehood. In the last one and a half months, Thursday’s fire was the third such incident in a Meerut slum. While the first incident was reported in the same slums of Ashiyana colony in March, another slum at Hapur road caught fire in April. 
 
