At a time when French giant Danone has decided to shut its dairy operations in India, a school dropout is setting up India’s largest single-location cottage cheese (paneer) making unit in Perunthurai in Erode district, about 430km west of Chennai, with an investment of `450 crore.

 Satish Kumar, CEO of   — a dairy products company he started in the 1990s after his father’s milk business floundered — is busy raising the massive plant on 30 acres of barren land. "This will be the largest plant in Asia in terms of volume and automation," said Kumar. "No single plant produces as much paneer as it will." The company clocked a turnover of `400 crore last year.
 
 An efficient supply chain is crucial to the success of a  . "We have invested heavily in the supply chain to ensure we are self-sufficient. We handle the logistics ourselves, primary and secondary," said Kumar. To beat cold-chain issues, Kumar started supplying visi coolers to retail outlets to store his product. He made secondary reefer trucks mandatory to meet the demand. "We invest around `4 lakh per vehicle per distributor. It is a huge investment but it shows our commitment to the business."
 
 This, he said, is where Danone failed. "Theirs (Danone) was a flawed strategy. They did not supply reefer trucks. Supply chain was not in order, leading to high return rates," said Kumar.
 
 When Kumar dropped out of school in Class VIII, his father’s milk business was on the verge of shutting down. After two years of losses, Kumar decided to try his hand at making paneer. He started supplying it to hotels near his house, and today Milky Mist has become a formidable player in the dairy products market. He is backing his investment with upgrades to R&D, automation and strategy.
 
 "In the early 1990s, paneer did not have an established market in south India. We also automated some parts of the process. It is tricky because the texture and taste cannot be altered. We took a chance and started with hotels," said Kumar. The first batch of 10kg of paneer was sent in a plastic bag to Bengaluru in 1993. In 1995, they wrapped up the milk business to focus on value-added products. In 1997, Milky Mist’s products hit retail shelves. Today, the company offers more than 20 products, including paneer, cheese, ghee, cream and payasam.
 
 In a market dominated by heavyweights like Amul, Milky Mist has carved a niche for itself. Strong focus on efficiency and reducing wastage have been the company’s key to success, said Kumar. The company sources milk from 35,000 dairy farmers.
 
 Since March 2016, Milky Mist’s plant has been tapping solar energy and now generates more power than it consumes. A substantial byproduct of paneer and cheese processing is whey powder. "With whey powder, I incur zero material cost and sell it to biscuit manufacturers. However, you need to have machinery to leverage this at scale," he said.
 
 According to analysts at Edelweiss, a domestic brokerage, the Indian dairy industry will grow rapidly at 20% per annum to become a `2.5 lakh crore market by 2020, led by increasing consumption of value-added products.
 
 Milky Mist’s upcoming plant will have the capacity to process 10 lakh litres of milk a day. The existing plant is 70% automated. "A lot of processes are still done by hand. The new plant will be fully automated to take hygiene standards up several notches," said Kumar. With machinery designed specifically for production of paneer by German manufacturer, Alpma, Kumar has already kicked off some production of whey powder at the new plant.
 
 For Kumar, building a brand as popular as Milky Mist is nothing short of a dream come true. "Education is important, but it’s practical experience that teaches you to think on your feet, take risks and succeed," he said.
 
 
