LUCKNOW: A sudden surge of “tiranga yatras” by Hindu organizations in UP on Republic Day celebrations maybe the key reason behind the escalation in communal tension in Kasganj, leading to riots in the area.

 A senior officer said reports revealed that members of Hindu organizations, mainly  , attempted to take out “tiranga yatras” in nearly half a dozen districts including state capital Lucknow without prior permission of district administration.
 
 
 The yatra in Kasganj ran into trouble and resulted in clashes between two communities, leaving one dead.
 
 Sources told TOI that there were inputs that a large number of bike-borne youth carrying national flag on one side of their motorcycle and saffron flag on the other began riding across Kasganj around 9.30 am on January 26, shouting nationalist and communal slogans.
 
 Officials said people were about to hoist the Tricolour at the main Kasganj crossing, which is a Muslim-dominated area, when the bikers reached the spot and asked them to remove the tent, chairs and other items to make way for their yatra.
 
 When the organizers resisted, asking the bikers to wait till the ceremony was over, they were threatened and a fight ensued between the two groups.
 
 Officials said there were inputs that the bikers sped away from the spot and were chased by a crowd and clashes followed. The police personnel present there failed to control the situation.
 
 Majority of police personnel were at the   at the Police Lines, about 15 km from the spot, when the clashes took place. By the time more forces could rush out, clashes had broken out in other pockets of Kaasganj district, posing a major challenge to the police, said officials, adding that tension between the two communities had spread so wide and deep that it took more than three days for the police to take control of the situation.
 
 There were also reports that similar “tiranga yatras” had been taken out in parts of Lucknow, Aligarh and Haathras also where an alert police administration did not allow things to go out of hand.
 
