Chennai: When Ravi Saraogi and Umesh Sachdev wanted to build a product in mobility and telecom with a rural focus, little did they know they will analyse and synthesise human voice and build that to a billion dollar valuation business. After running around several districts in Tamil Nadu, Uniphore Software Systems was born.  For the past 10 years the company has documented and analysed every dialect and dictum. It took them 6 years to get to their next round of funding during which time they turned profitable. Today, they are estimated to have clocked revenues between $7-10 million last year. And, in the next five, they promise to take Uniphore to the Unicorn status (1 billion dollar valuation).  “We have seen successes in the B2C space. However, we are yet to have a B2B company become a unicorn. We want to prove that India can produce a home grown deep tech unicorn,” said Sachdev. Their jounrey began in 2008 with guidance from professor Ashok Jhunjhunwala and seed funding from IIT Madras.  While they were setting out to find an answer to an unsolved problem, they didnt shy away from using existing technology. “We were clear that we didn’t want to reinvent anything. We used alogrithms built for English speech recognition and worked on it to develop technology for local languages,” he said. With three products auMina,a speech analytics product, Akeira that provides voice-based virtual assistance, and amVoice which reduces possibilities of human error by using voice biometrics, Uniphore has served close to 70 enterprise customers across the globe. The company has raised $20 million across rounds and counts Krish Gopalakrishnan, IDG Ventures, Indian Angel Network amongst its investors. Gopalakrishnan said,” Uniphore is built on deep technology IP. It is leveraging the ecosystem that exists at IIT Madras and the research park. Umesh and his team have built the company patiently and deliberately ensuring that their products deliver value to its customers. It is a global company with customers outside India and can scale up globally.” Last year, the company raised its series B round from former Cisco executive chairman John Chambers who took a 10% stake and brought him in as chief guru. “We are his first investment outside of the US. John spends 6-8 hours every week with our team. Every senior hire is interviewed by him. He is deeply entrenched in the business which only motivates us further,” said Sachdev. Ranjith Menon, executive director, IDG Ventures India said, “We backed Uniphore based on our belief that speech is the most natural way of communication and the technology will find more applications across enterprises. Applying speech technologies to service customers better is on the agenda today for most enterprises with large customer bases. It is wonderful to witness Umesh and Ravi grow as founders over the last few years and be a part of their journey. We are very excited and believe that this is just the beginning of what they can accomplish going forward.” Now, the duo’s eyes are set on the US market. Sachdev says the total available market is pegged at $15-20 billion of which US comprises 50%. “US has to be part of the puzzle. We will invest significant resources to establish our brand and take our products.” he said. 