NAGPUR: On Saturday afternoon,   of Bhavan’s Bhagwandas Purohit Vidya Mandir (BVM, Civil Lines) created history by recording the highest known score of 98.6% for CBSE XII in city.

 Chandak’s stream of commerce too wrote itself into history books by producing city toppers for an unprecedented seventh year in a row. BVM’s sister branch at Srikrishna Nagar secured the second and third spot for commerce stream through solid performance by Keshav Modi (97.6%) and   (97.2%).
 
 Traditional rivals Centre Point School ( ), Katol Road, came up strong by securing the top spots of Science stream with Amisha Kelkar (97.8%) and Tanaya Ramani (96.8%) doing the honours. While their schoolmate Tanmay Bundiwal ensured CPS’ stamp on the third science spot too, he had to share the space with   of   as they both scored 96.2%. 
 
 The spoils for the top spot of humanities stream had to be shared for humanities between Kendriya Vidyalaya’s ( ) Khushboo Sharma and BVM Srikrishna Nagar’s Naitik Muley as they both scored 95.8%. KV again made an entry to the second spot with Gauri Meshram scoring 95.20% while the third spot was taken by BVM Srikrishna Nagar’s Vedant Deshpane (95%). 
 
 The absolute dominance of commerce stream in CBSE’s Std XII results is a result of quality students staying put in the board. Annapoorni Shastri, director of Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan (Nagpur Kendra) and senior academician, said, “Schools in Nagpur have an excellent set up for commerce and even parents realize this due to which we see the quality.”
 
 Humanities stream too has been having a dream run in Nagpur with consistent high scores, which is different from state board. Shastri, former principal of Srikrishna Nagar branch, said, “There was a time when humanities stream had no takers. We have taught classes with just one student over a decade ago, but now the entire section is full.”
 
 Science stream in CBSE is also witnessing high scores even though majority of students shift to state board because of the lax attendance rules. Shilpee Ganguly, principal of CPS Katol Road, said, “We have always tried to ensure that quality in studies is a priority and we can see now that even in science stream the performance is going up overall.” 
 
 TOI spoke to students who said that overall the papers were not very tough and that reflected in the results. “Economics and accounts were really easy for me and that helped with my scores,” said Mishika Singla student of CPS Wardhaman Nagar.
 
 Another student Devangi Sharma of BVM Srikrishna Nagar, said, “Accounts was a little tough otherwise commerce was not really difficult and managing time was really important to score good.” 
 
 Rajat Gode, student of BVM Srikrishna Nagar, said, “Mathematics pulled my scores down while Computer Science and Chemistry were on my side. I was also preparing for my JEE (Mains) and hence handling both of it was really challenging but somehow I have scored well than what I expected.” 
 
 
