NEW DELHI: When PC Musthafa failed in Class VI, he was gutted and decided to drop out. It was a teacher who pushed him to try again and he struggled through the rest of the years to finally finish Class 12 with 75%. “I was below average in engineering college too,” says the 45-year-old founder of the Rs1,000-crore food startup iD Fresh Food, which sells readymade dosa batter, parathas and more.

 Today, Musthafa — who started out by delivering batter door-to-door on a scooter — has a team of 1,600 people, five factories across the globe, and serves 14 cities in India and the Gulf. “Marks are just a number. Wherever I went, I was probably the worst performer, but no one has ever asked how much I scored in Class X or XII,” he says.
 
 Like Musthafa, there are many whose stories prove that success isn’t linked to marks. As various boards declare their results and students score what seem to be impossibly high  , there’s a sense of despondency and anxiety among those whose sheets show 80s and less. In the hours after the Class X CBSE exam results were announced in Delhi, two students committed suicide, one of them with 70% and the other about 60%.
 
 For 27-year-old Nazia Anjum, a government school teacher in Delhi, these news reports are heart-breaking. That there’s another chance is something she tells students since her life is proof of it. She failed her Class X board exam in Bihar and took an improvement test. She then dropped maths, switched to humanities, and went on to top Class XII. “Students shouldn’t lose hope even if they get poor marks. You can always try again,” she says.
 
 It’s been 10 years since Purvi Trivedi finished Class XII, but it still evokes memories of incredible stress. “I’m glad they’re over,” says Trivedi, who scored 69% from a Gurgaon school and is now community manager at Roli, a London-based music technology company. She started a computer engineering course, realised her passion was in music, and dropped out to do a diploma in sound engineering in Chennai, and then a degree in sound technology in Liverpool. Did her marks matter? “Not really. The course I ended up pursuing didn’t care about my board marks,” she says.
 
 Having a sense of initiative and energy can counter a low score. Suresh Sambandam never went to college as his father asked him to join the family business after he scored around 70% in Class XII. He was interested in computer programming and took some courses. When he landed a job with HP, he realised he approached problem-solving differently, unencumbered by the strict knowledge framework others learnt in college. Today, Sambandam runs OrangeScape, a multi-million dollar company in Chennai, and employs 200 people. Some of his friends who scored over 90% have ended up reporting to him. “Life experiences are worth 100x more than the marks you get in school,” says Sambandam. “If you have scored low, don’t worry, you can augment it with exposure and experience.”
 
 It was going to IIM Kolkata that made Harry Naik, 29, realise that marks mean little. “I was the average student everywhere — school, college,” says the digital marketing trainer and co-founder of travel blog Vagabond Stories. “I prepared for CAT but was very surprised when I got into IIM,” he says. Just the fact that he was in IIM gave him the jitters because he expected only   to be there. “There were people from all kinds of backgrounds, and that’s when I understood that it’s experience and not marks that count. It changed the way I looked at myself,” he says.
 
 Old Delhi resident Abu Sufyan barely scraped through Class X despite doing an improvement exam. After brief stints in Google and Paytm, Sufyan, 27, started ‘Purani Dilli Walo ki Baatein’ to promote Old Delhi’s heritage. “The world is going to reward you not for marks but for the extra mile you’re willing to travel,” he says.
 
 
