BENGALURU: Two months after it began white topping on six stretches spanning about 35km, BBMP claims to have completed work on only 13.52km of roads.

 Under the first phase of the Rs 723.71 crore project, the Palike had taken up whitetopping along Outer Ring Road (  to KR Puram),   (near  ), West of Chord Road, Koramangala 20th Main, Mysuru Road and Hosur Road. Since parts of these roads were cordoned off, citizens complained of heavy traffic, forcing BBMP to temporarily suspend work last month. 
 
 The slow pace of work was also brought up by Rajarajeshwari Nagar MLA Munirathna at the BBMP council meet on Monday. “A stretch spanning over 10km was supposed to be whitetopped on Tumakuru Road near Goraguntepalya Junction. Despite closing the portion of the National Highway for three months, only 500 metres have been whitetopped near the Goraguntepalya Metro station,” he said. Even of the 13.52km, a 10.77km stretch has been whitetopped only on the right side, as in most areas the other side has been left open for traffic movement.
 
 
 
 
 After temporarily suspending the work in December, BBMP said it would first take up work on those roads which have alternate routes. The civic body wrote to traffic police last week, seeking approval to start work along four more stretches.
 
 “We have sought permission to begin work along Kadugodi Road (1.8km), BTS Garage Road (1.91km),   (3.85km) and on the ORR stretch from   to Mysuru Road (12km). All these roads have alternate routes, hence traffic snarls can be prevented,” said a BBMP officer. Stating the project’s progress depends on traffic movement, K T Nagaraj, chief engineer (projects), said, “While we have written to police, they will only approve the work only after checking the traffic movement and alternate routes.
 
  Once they approve it, we will start work. Additionally, vehicles can’t be let on to the road soon after the work is done, as the curing process takes over 15 days.” The official pointed out that if traffic was not a hurdle, work along all 93.47km of roads would be completed in 11 months.
 
 
 
  City development minister K J George inaugurated the white-topped stretch from Swastik Junction to Rajiv Gandhi statue. 
 
 
