By: Shreeram Prabhu 

 I am 86 years old. Many say commuting in Pune has become a challenge. But for the elderly, the traffic today can be absolutely unforgiving. 
 
  Recently, I had an appointment at the clinic of a specialist physician on  . The clinic is fairly close to where I live - just about five minutes by walk. 
 
 However, as is my habit, on the day of the appointment, I left home about an hour early. I believe leaving on time is key to avoiding stress while commuting.
 
 But to my horror, I found myself not able to cross the road even after 30 minutes of wait. The flow of traffic was continuous, from both directions. My pleas to motorists, to allow me to cross the road, went completely ignored .
 
 As the allotted time for my appointment approached, I began to get nervous and started sweating. It was imperative that I see the doctor that day; my ailment was serious. I just couldn't believe I was losing time by the road.
 
 Finally, with great effort, I hired an autorickshaw to take me across the road. The driver agreed only after being promised double the fare. But even the autorickshaw had to go up to   bridge and make a U-turn to come back to the clinic. What was supposed to be just five minutes, almost cost an 86-year-old a trip to the doctor's.
 
 A letter detailing traffic problems on the notorious Ghole Road, along with a photo, had appeared in TOI more than six months ago. In the letter, there were suggestions to install traffic lights at least at the Andhra Bank road crossing and the Phule Museum chowk. The lights could have been been synchronised with the main signals at Jhansi Rani chowk. It was also suggested that in the meantime, traffic personnel be posted at several crucial spots along the road. 
 
 But it has been six months since that letter and I would like to point out that no action has been taken by the traffic department to address the concerns. Ghole Road remains a nightmare to cross.
 
 At the same time, it must be noted that the   has taken note of inadequate pavement width on Ghole Road and has already started widening them. Can we expect similar prompt action from the traffic department?
 
  The writer is a longtime resident of Pune 
 
 
