LUDHIANA: On International Women’s Day, two cases of rape were registered in the city. In both the cases, the accused had promised to marry the survivors. 

 In the first case, a 29-year-old complainant, who lives in  , said she and the accused knew each other from Class VI as they studied in the same school. She went to live in   for some time and then returned to Ludhiana. The complainant said in 2004, she met him again and they fell in love. In 2010, the accused said he wanted to marry her and developed physical relations without her consent.
 
 From 2010 to 2012, the accused raped her at various places in Ludhiana and Chandigarh. In 2012, both left for Canada, where too he raped her, she added. The complainant said when they asked family of the accused about marriage, they said he would marry after getting permanent citizenship. “Some of his family members said he could not marry me as I was from a lower caste, and made casteist remarks,” she added.
 
 She said the accused asked her to arrange Rs 50 lakh, after which he would give marriage a thought. She again contacted his family, but they abused her and her parents, and refused to the marriage. When they threatened to get her killed, she contacted the police.
 
 Cops from the women’s cell have registered a case against the accused. 
 
 In the second case, the women’s cell booked a Moga resident for rape of a married woman. The 31-year-old complainant said the accused knew that her divorce case was pending in the court. “He, however, said he was ready to marry me before he went to  . He claimed to have announced our relationship on   in 2016. Last year, he took me on a long drive towards   and raped me,” she added.
 
 She alleged that the accused came to her house when she was alone and raped her again. He also made her talk to his mother, who promised to get them married.
 
 After a few days, the accused sent her his picture with a woman on WhatsApp and said he had got engaged to her. The woman lodged a police complaint after he threatened her.
 
 
