NEW DELHI: When Ayush Nautiyal met Ishtiyaq on dating aap Tinder, neither of them had imagined that it would end in blood and gore. In the last fortnight, the two barely met thrice but became great friends. But a minor tiff followed by a threat by Nautiyal to part ways made Ishtiyaq lose his temper and bake a deadly plot.

 In the last six days, a special team led by joint CP Ajay Chaudhary came close to nabbing the suspect multiple times. But the police were being cautious to ensure the safety of Nautiyal. As many as 30 teams of plainclothesemen were deployed, but the ransom-seeker never surfaced. 
 
 Police got their first clue when they spotted Nautiyal and Ishtiyaq in the   footage of a metro station. The two were seen buying burgers. Ishtiyaq became a suspect. 
 
 The police then scanned Nautiyal’s call records and narrowed down upon Ishtiyaq’s number and his Tinder profile. “He was found to be a student of  . The police teams then scanned the records of all their students and zeroed down on Ishtiyaq,” said a senior officer. 
 
 On two occasions, police had managed to locate the street from where the calls were made, but couldn’t pinpoint the exact location as the number was switched off.
  
 
 Since Wednesday night, the Nautiyal family has been in a state of shock. They were very hopeful to get their child back but were distraught to know that he had been killed even before the police were informed about the kidnapping. 
 
 The family had somehow arranged for Rs 10 lakh by borrowing money from relatives to pay the kidnappers but still lost their son. Nautiyal is survived by his parents and two sisters. 
 
 His father, who works as a manager at New India Assurance Company, said the kidnappers contacted them only between 8pm and 9pm for four days. Nautiyal’s sister said that she had told the police to examine his laptop among other things, and it was the laptop that revealed crucial details. 
 
 “Ayush was contemplating various options after completing his BCom. He was also interested in pursuing fashion designing as he was good at sketching. That’s how he may have become friends with this man...We don’t know why they killed him,” said a relative. 
 
 The family said Nautiyal had left for college on March 22 around 12.30pm. He had told them that he had to go for a group project. Police found that he had switched his cellphone two minutes after leaving home. 
 
 “He would usually return home by 3.30pm. We tried contacting him when he didn’t return by 7.30pm and then got the news of his kidnapping,” said  , the elder sister. 
 
 
