Bhoewal: Giving a new twist to Harjit Mashi’s story of his miraculous escape from Mosul, Gurpinder Kaur, sister of Manjinder Singh, one among 39 youths who were shot dead by ISIS, alleged that he (Harjit) had left the group of other Indians in May, well ahead of the abduction of Indians by the terror group from the Iraq city.

 While talking to TOI here on Wednesday, Gurpinder said Manjinder had called her on June 11 or 12, 2014, saying Masih was not with them and that he had left the group. “My brother told me over phone that he did not know whether Harjit was alive or died, or that he had left the place.” She said her brother kept calling her till June 15, 2014, a day after his abduction, and every time told her that Harjit was not with them. 
 
 She alleged that Harjit and her uncle Rajbir were responsible for her brother’s death since both had promised him a job in Dubai and instead send him to Iraq. 
 
 Echoing similar sentiments, Sukhdeep Kaur, a resident of Babowal village, whose brother Harsimranjit Singh also met the same fate as that of Gurpinder’s brother, said an inquiry should be held to know the veracity in the claims of Masih.
 
 While squarely blaming Mashih for the untimely death of her brother, she said he had promised her brother a job in Dubai but fraudulently taken him to Mosul in Iraq. “I am happy that he returned home safely, I wish my brother had also returned home safely, but Harjit Masih betrayed us,” she said.
 
 “Both Masih and his uncle have to answer as to why they took our children to Mosul in Iraq instead of Dubai, where they had assured them a job,” she said, adding that when ever she asked him to send her brother back, “Masih would say that ‘your brother and other boys didn’t want to work’ and were exaggerating about terrorism in Iraq.” 
 
 Denying the allegations, Masih said Gurpinder’s brother worked for over 10 months in Iraq without any complaint. “Neither he nor Gurpinder asked me to send him back, instead Manjinder himself didn’t want to come back and now they are leveling allegations on me,” he alleged. 
 
 
