Jallikattu, the original word for what we know as   today, may be more than a symbol of Tamil pride and heroism, becoming a key to establish the antiquity of Tamil language and culture. The references to the "leaping bull" are found in Sangam literature, but Trichy-based archeo-symbolist T L   believes it is the same symbol used in the Indus Valley civilisation. 

 In his recently launched book, ‘Ancient Tamizh — The Faculty of Harappan Symbols and Scripts’, he explains that an inscription on a 6ft long hero stone at the Salem archaeological museum referred to Sallikattu as "Erudhu vilayadi pattan", roughly translated to "bull attaining death during a heroic adventure". A similar reference is found in an Indus valley seal found at Bannavali 335. "It had a two-letter word — "vadu". By referring to verse 45 in the ancient grammar manuscript ‘Ezhuththathikam’ of ‘Tholkappiyam’, the word can be expanded to "vadukolluthal" or "thazhumbuppaduthal", which means an "abiding a mark on the body encountered during heroic adventure," says Bose
 
 Apart from connecting the idea of heroism, the archaeo-symbolist has compared inscriptions, seals, images of deities in temples, to make a strong case in the debate over similarities of the  . Through the book, he argues that the undeciphered language of the lost civilisation is ancient Tamil.
 
 The Indus Valley civilization was discovered by archaeologists in 1920s, but the script of this ancient civilization, which thrived during 3300–1300BC, has not been deciphered till date. There have been arguments in the archaeological community that the language could be proto Dravidian, but the claims have not been established with evidence. But, the researcher on ancient symbols backs his case by drawing comparisons to symbols found in temples across the state and those in the Indus Valley. 
 
 Although Bose has not travelled to Indus Valley, he has closely studied the temples across Tamil Nadu, matching the symbols and scripts found in the Harappan script, over the past three decades to establish his claims.
 
 Historian R Komagan, amazed by the observations, feels Bose has laid the foundation to the claims that may help in deciphering the Indus valley script. Former deputy director of Tamil Nadu archaeological department R Poongundran, at the book release on Friday, said "It is interesting to note the similarities of the deities of the Harappan civilization and those in Tamil Nadu. This book will be a landmark; it will help to prove that Tamil was used in Indus valley civilization." 
 
 While giving descriptions of Tamil letters and finding corresponding shapes in Harappan seals, Tamil Scholar P Tamizhagan said there was a strong evidence to prove that Harappan seals and scripts are written in ancient Tamil.
 
 
