MUMBAI: The government is trying to take gold and glitz out of   and put it all under one roof in Navi Mumbai. On Monday, the state and the Gems and Jewellery Export Promotion Council (GJEPC) signed an   at the ongoing   summit to develop a 25-acre gems and jewellery park at a cost of Rs 13,500 crore.

 This will be India’s first gems and jewellery park, which will be developed on the lines of the Shenzhen model in China, said Praveenshankya Pandya, ex-chairman of GJEPC. “This will bring order to the highly scattered sector and boost exports,” he said.
 
 The park, likely to come up in Ghansoli, is intended to house nearly 4,500 units and will employ 90,000-1 lakh people. The government also plans to provide housing to craftsmen on the premises. However, artisans and craftsmen have questioned the viability of the plan.
 
 Mumbai already has a diamond bourse in BKC and several traders over the years have moved there from their south Mumbai units.
 
 Union commerce and industry minister Suresh Prabhu, speaking at a panel discussion at the event on Monday, said the focus was on increasing exports in the next decade. The government aims to increase gems and jewellery exports from the current Rs 2.8 lakh crore a year to Rs 4 lakh crore by 2022.
 
 At present, gems and jewellery—a labour intensive sector—contributes 15% to India’s total exports.
 
 “From gold refining to making jewellery to getting clearances from Customs for exports, all will be done at this hub. It will be one-stop for all gems and jewellery transactions so that transparency is ensured,” said Pandya, adding that raw material will be made available through authorized agencies to weed out smuggled gems and gold.
 
 However, jewellers and craftsmen are circumspect about the plan. Kalidas Sinha Roy, general secretary of the Bengali Swarna Shilpi Kalyan Sangha in Zaveri Bazar, said, “The government only consults the top of the pyramid, the cream of jewellers and designers, while taking such major decisions. It does not talk to ‘lowly’ craftsmen. How can we shift our polishing units and ornament manufacturing units to Ghansoli unless the traders and jewellers of Zaveri Bazar move too? We live and work in pigeonhole-sized rooms in this locality because it is risky to transport gold and finished jewellery over long distances. Moreover, which of us can afford to buy space in the gold-diamond park at Ghansoli? We can barely rent 150 sq ft sweatshops in Zaveri Bazar where we house eight craftsmen at once.”
 
 
