AMRITSAR: There seems to be no end to the troubles of newly elected president of Chief   ( ) Santokh Singh as now members of two rival groups have joined hands to demand that the recently held byelections of the body be declared null and void. The members of the 115-year-old Sikh institution have also sought a general house session to discuss the issue.

 
 CKD additional secretary Jaswinder Singh Advocate told TOI on Tuesday that about a dozen members of CKD had given a requisition to CKD honorary secretary M S Khurana demanding removal of 161 members of the Sikh for having missed 12 missed meetings.
 
 He alleged that 72 out of 161 members had cast their votes during the byelections held on March 25, following which Santokh Singh was elected as president.
 
 “Technically, these 161 members cease to be the members of CKD and they couldn’t have voted, so the elections automatically stands null and void,” he said.
 
 Sources said TOI that the letter submitted to the honorary secretary bear signatures of members having allegiance with both Rajmohinder Majitha and   factions. Both had contested against Santokh Singh. During one of the CKD’s meeting held in Shimla in September 2017, the issue of 161 absentee members had come up but no movement was initiated for their replacement, sources claimed.
 
 When contacted, Santokh, without naming anyone, blamed on few members for creating bottlenecks in the work of CKD only to grab power. He said, “Not one, I have received two or three requisitions, as well as, threats.” When a member fails to attend 12 consecutive meetings, he is supposed to be served a notice.
 
 “Now in this case, in September 2017, there was a meeting. They discussed this issue and gave powers to former president Charanjit Singh Chadha to decide on the matter. Chadha was removed in December 2017, in February 2018 there was a meeting where they discussed the same but the election had already been announced. Then they decided, which is also recorded in the minutes of the meeting, that until notices is served we can’t remove them. Therefore for this byelection everyone will vote,” he claimed.
 
