PATNA: Technology is making its way to   as the state government is pledging to invest more in the digitization of artefacts displayed there.

 Spread over an area of 13.9 acres, Bihar Museum has over 30,000 artefacts. It has four inter-related exhibition areas, including orientation gallery, history gallery (A, B and C), art gallery (historical, regional and contemporary art) and special galleries like  , children’s gallery and a temporary exhibition gallery.
 
 “Each gallery will be divided into era-wise sections, chronologically as well as thematically. With each exhibit, visitors will embark on a journey of human evolution from hunting-gathering stage to the introduction of agriculture. Thereafter, through the political upheavals of dynasties down to the British Colonial rule,” museum director   told this newspaper on Tuesday. 
 
 “The renovation work in gallery-B is expected to get over by mid-June. Once it is thrown open for visitors, work in gallery-A will start,” he added.
 
 Yusuf said the technological upgradation in the galleries is being done as per   (ICOM) guidelines. “ICOM recently came out with this year’s theme for all the museums, ‘serve the society’. Focusing on this theme, the state government has planned to use latest technology to bring the region’s history into focus and inspire local residents and visitors from across the globe,” he said.
 
 Elaborating further, its curator   said, “We are working with Singapore-based company   to create content in modern ways that can appeal to the younger generation. Adjacent to each artefact exhibited in the museum will be an HD audiovisual and touchscreen display. These AV panels will reflect all the required information about the artefact. These user-friendly displays will be bilingual. All the sections of different galleries will undergo renovation work, using artificial intelligence technology, drones to create HD images and 3D models of the cultural sites. However, no major changes will be made in the children’s gallery.”
 
 Rajput further said, “In some of the galleries, these audiovisual displays will also narrate the stories behind cultural collections. We are also planning to draw sketches and paintings on the museum walls to recreate era-wise cultural atmosphere in different sections,” he added.
 
 “Soon, a separate gallery for coins will also be there. This gallery will showcase museum’s entire coin collection in high security cases organized chronologically. Apart from their aesthetic beauty, the coins would carry necessary information regarding the political, economic and technological history of the ancient kingdoms,” Rajput added.
 
 
