BENGALURU: In a move that could fast-track   and save lives by bridging the demand-supply gap,   on Tuesday launched a social initiative called #BloodMatters.

 As part of its 12th birthday celebrations, Twitter has partnered with Blood Donors India (@BloodDonorsIN), a helpline. It will also promote @BloodDonorsIN as part of its #Twitter4Good philanthropic mission. 
 
 People can request for blood donation by tweeting to @BloodDonorsIN with their location hashtag, blood type, mobile number and Twitter handle. Those interested can also follow @BloodDonorsIN and respond/retweet requests for help.
 
 “Twitter will also support implementation of an automated response solution to scale the operations of @BloodDonorsIN, currently run by a group of volunteers,” said a statement issued by Twitter India.
 
 Twitter will amplify real-time communication efforts of the handle with verification and promotion. Twitter Lite (mobile.twitter.com) will also promote the initiative, particularly in rural areas where internet connectivity is poor.
 
 “We want to work with more blood donation Twitter helplines, blood banks and health institutions across the country to reach a larger audience. This also aims to scale up the volume of blood donation conversation in India and number of donors, and work with partners that can ensure safe blood can reach those in need in time,” said  , country head, Twitter India.
 
 Balu Nayar, founder of Blood Donors, which launched the handle @BloodDonorsIN in 2008, said: “Twitter is the fastest platform where information exchange on blood donation takes place. Over the years, our handle received over a million followers who have sought, received or offered help. The collaboration aims to extend the benefit to a larger audience by creating more awareness for blood donation.” 
 
 Based on 2017 data from @BloodDonorsIN, a majority of tweets requesting donation came from over 40 cities across India, including Bengaluru. “We will also help volunteers translate requests in different regional languages to English,” said Nayar.
 
 “Twitter is prominently used during crises and disasters. Blood donation demands are an example of how everyday crises are solved on Twitter,” said Mahima Kaul, head, public policy, Twitter India.
 
 According to a report by the   (WHO), only nine million blood units are available annually in India, against a demand of 12 million. 
 
 
