NEW DELHI: The   of  , who was riding a   on the  , on Saturday night remains a   48 hours later. No one from his family — even a distant relative — has contacted the  . 

 His father, a former MP from Bihar, had passed away about 10 years back and his mother a few years ago, said some acquaintances. Since then Puri has been living alone at his Sarita Vihar apartment. Of late, he had been visiting his village in   to resolve a dispute over a piece of land, they say. The police are probing if there has been any foul play.
 
  
  
 Meanwhile, the owner of the Etios car which allegedly rammed the bike has been identified as a businessman from Punjab. His driver is claimed to have been at the wheel, say the police. He is absconding. DCP (south-east) Chinmoy Biswal said teams have been formed to track him down. “Our teams are still looking for the biker in the Yamuna and are also checking in Delhi and Noida to find out if someone had found him and admitted him to a hosptial,” he said.
 
 Puri’s friend, Shailendra, a photographer in south Delhi, said that he has been setting up a studio at his apartment. Puri had recently completed a course in music from Berkeley University through a distance learning course. 
 
 “He rarely revealed anything about his family members but had told me about his father, a politician from Bihar. He had approached me to help him with his website. However, I didn’t know that he owned a bike or why he had stepped out of home late at night,” he said. His friends are clueless about when he purchased the motorcycle since some of them had dissuaded him from buying one due to his habit of driving out late at night.
 
 “He has been in depression ever since his mother’s death and we have been motivating him to stick to his music and his hobbies,” recalled Mike Cowasji, a friend who runs a tatoo studio in south Delhi. “He had some relatives in Faridabad and a cousin who stays in Leh. There is also an uncle in Dwarka, but it’s strange that none of them was aware of his whereabouts.” 
 
 “He has been travelling to Bihar to dispose of his ancestral property since he was the only son of his father,” said Shailendra. These friends say Puri had told them about some people in Bihar who had tried to dupe him into selling his property worth crores. His father, Surya Prakash Puri, was an MP from Nawada in Bihar and had contested as an independent candidate in the fourth Lok Sabha elections. 
 
 Cowasji say he had asked Puri a few days ago not to drive at night. “He used to travel on empty stretches. I also got to know that he had got in touch with a few people in Bihar who had offered to buy his property but these people were history sheeters.”
 
 
