AHMEDABAD:   specialists often tell tales of how nearly 90% women kidney failure patients are either put on the cadaver waiting list or endlessly on dialysis with only 10% family members stepping forward to donate organs to save these womens’ lives.

 In sharp contrast, the doctors were surprised when not one but 11 family members of Ranjan Nanda including her husband, brother-in-law, four brothers, their respective wives and her elder sister rallied around her to give her their organ. All family members insisted that they would donate their kidney to save Ranjan's life.
 
 In the end, brother number two --   Marwah (55) — was chosen as he was a perfect match with his blood group and tissue.
 
 “Ranjan underwent the transplant on December 27 and is doing very well. She is the rare woman patient who had 11 people ready to be donors. This is unprecedented in my career which has seen families take the patient home saying that she is not worth donating part of their body. In one case, the husband was ruthless to say that he can get a new wife for the cost of the transplant,” said Dr Pankaj Shah, professor and HOD of nephrology and transplant medicine at   (IKDRC).
 
 “Ranjan is a dear sister and all the family rallied around her to give her a fresh lease of life. It is my good fortune that I could donate her my organ. I have fulfilled the rakshabandhan promise of safeguarding her life,” said Chandrakant, whose wife too was in complete support of his decision.
 
 “I am alive due to my family's support,” said Ranjan whose husband Sunil Nanda could not donate his kidney as he was not a match.
 
 Ranjan was detected with kidney disease in 2015 when she suddenly developed fever and low blood count. Ranjan was put on dialysis and before she underwent transplant serious complications.
 
 
 
 Dr Tiven Marwah, leading endocrinologist and relative of Ranjan, said, “Ranjan battled heart complication where heart f unction was only 18%; a serious bacterial infection of heart, bleeding from intestines due to severe gastritis.
 
 It is a miracle that she has battled such serious complications and recovered well after transplantation. These kind of cases restore our faithin doctors.”
 
 Transplantation coordinator at   Priya Shah said families like Ranjan's should serve as examples for society.
 
 “In 80% male patients, women are willingly ready to donate their kidneys while just above 10% women have family members donate their organs.
 
 This needs to change,” said Shah.
 
