After US President Donald   declared ‘DACA is dead’ in his Sunday Easter anti-immigration tweet , Harleen Brar (26), who has grown up in   as an undocumented Punjabi immigrant, sees uncertainty and fear looming ahead. “I was in junior college when I first came to know about my undocumented status. Suddenly I realized that my life was different from my US-born peers and it eventually made me a little anti-social. 

 
  
 I started shying away from mingling with others, and avoiding questions like why can’t I drive or secure a job in any top corporation,” says Harleen, who came to Brooklyn, the most populous borough of the New York, from Punjab’s Patiala at the age of six with her parents and two younger siblings.
 
 As an undocumented immigrant, Harleen couldn’t afford to study in leading US universities despite spending over a decade in the US as she was ineligible for in-state tuition fees. But she got a partial relief in 2012, when the then-President Barack Obama established   (DACA) through an executive action, offering renewable two-year work permits and various other rights to young undocumented immigrants who met educational and residency requirements. But Trump’s latest tweet has made her fear the worst.
 
 However, Harleen's is not the lone case. There are tens of hundreds of young immigrants (also known as DREAMers) from Punjab, Haryana and Chandigarh, who are living the American dream of uncertainty. “Washington is my only home but I don’t have the documents to prove it. I came to know about this harsh reality in 2010 when I asked my mother for documents to apply for a finance course at Michigan State University,” said   (27), who works in a financial technology firm in Richmond city in Virginia.
 
 “My parents brought me to the US in 1992 when I was oneyear-old. I know nothing about my birth place Punjab. Trump administration can’t be so illogical as to force me to go back to an alien land,” added Shergill, whose work permit under DACA is expiring in next couple of months.
 
 These undocumented Indian youngsters like Shergill were brought to the US illegally by their parents and many of them are now living under threat of deportation from the US.
 
 Suman Raghunathan, executive director of South Asian Americans Leading Together (SAALT), said “DREAMers are not bargaining chips... We need   to protect immigrant communities...There’s no time to lose."
 
