LUCKNOW: Four members of tribal Bawariya gang of Rajasthan were nabbed by the Lucknow police in an encounter in Gram Kheda locality of Krishnanagar on Saturday. Three others managed to flee. Police claimed this gang was behind the recent dacoities of  , Kakori and  .

 The gang had also committed dacoity in Barabanki, Hardoi and   districts. They were planning a fifth dacoity in the city when the surveillance cell got a whiff of their location and alerted police. Police teams were patrolling Gram Kheda locality when the gang’s presence was traced near a railway crossing in the area. Meanwhile, the miscreants also learnt of police presence and opened fire at the team while trying to flee. Police opened fire in response.
 
 
 In the exchange of fire that followed, Mahendra of Bikaner and Manoj of Alwar suffered leg injuries and fell off the bike. While two others, Rajesh and   of Ajmer, surrendered. However, Kalia, Dharamvir and Dayaram managed to flee under the cover of darkness. Police also recovered three pistols, a bike and live cartridges. They also recovered silk garments reportedly robbed from the house of Dinanath Chuhan in Chinhat on January 19 and jewellery taken from the house of   of Malihabad on January 24.
 
 Lucknow SSP Deepak   said the gang belongs to a new tribal community of Rajasthan and they wander around in the less developed areas which have a forest cover, like Chinhat, Malihabad and Kakori. They keep guns, small firearms and sticks to use in case they meet with any kind of resistance. Unlike the old Bawariya or Pardi gang, they do not hesitate in opening fire during dacoity. “The gang members get their sisters and daughters married in different states in order to spread their network. They have presence in Punjab,  , Chhattisgarh and also Maharashtra,” said Kumar.
 
 They have more than 150 members spread in various parts of the country; a dacoity in Bhatinda and another dacoity in Morena district of Madhya Pradesh have been attributed to this gang. He added that the gang spent time in a locality by living in hutments to map the topography and mingle with people living in rural pockets.
 
