HYDERABAD: A trip to the cinema theatre this   could well blow a bigger hole in your pockets thanks to the inaction on the part of the two Telugu states to lay down scientific parameters for fixing the prices of cinema tickets.

 For, the   has now allowed cinema theatres across the two states to hike ticket prices and collect the new tariffs forthwith.
 
 Justice S V  , who heard the pleas of various theatre owners in the twin states seeking permission to hike ticket prices, gave this direction.
  
  
 In fact what he did was a reiteration of the order of a single judge who had, on December 12, 2016, allowed theatres to hike ticket prices.
 
 According to the order delivered on Wednesday, theatre owners need not even obtain prior approval from any licensing authority for hiking prices and can straightaway increase ticket prices after due intimation to the relevant authorities. Observers say this order will make cinema viewing a costly affair in AP and Telangana. However, the effect of this order in Hyderabad and   remains to be seen.
 
 This is because Telangana had made a special mention before the single judge in July 2017 and got the reference to Telangana deleted from the December 2016 order on the grounds that it was not a party to the case.
 
 But theatre owners from Telangana too were part of the petition before Justice Bhatt and some of the key directions given in the old order, that allowed theatres to hike their prices with intimation to the authorities, were reiterated by the court in its latest order too.
 
 In another development, the state of Telangana had issued GO MS No 75 early last year laying down certain norms for fixing prices of cinema tickets category wise, but kept it in abeyance and did not explain to the court as to why it did so. Despite repeated reminders from the court, the state did not even file its counter in the matter.
 
 According to AP’s GP (home) Vidyavathy, the judge directed the two states to follow three directions given in the December 2016 order. The substance of those three directions is that theatres are now permitted to collect their proposed fares after intimation to the authorities. What’s more, cinema theatres need not maintain any separate accounts or records to show the difference between the old revenue and new revenue. Cine Prekshakula Viniyogadarula Sangham president   said cinema viewing in both states is expected to become a costly affair now.
 
