AHMEDABAD: Kilos of rotis and kindness have gone into making the success of 22-year-old Hasan Safin, who recently cracked the   exams with the all-India rank of 570. Safin, who has qualified to become an IPS officer, says he will repeat the exam to improve his ranking to become an IAS officer, a dream that fuelled him to work hard, sometimes even on empty stomach since he was in class 5!

 
 Safin, a native of Kanodar village in Palanpur, vividly recalls how he was impressed with collector’s visit to his village. “Escorted by armed bodyguards, the collector addressed the entire village, assuring them that their problems would be resolved,” says Safin. “I asked an elder how one can become a collector and was told anybody can become that — all that is needed is hard work to crack an entrance test. From that moment, I got the mission of my life.”
 
 Committing himself to the goal was easy, the road to fulfil it was fraught with challenges for Safin who hails from a poor family. His parents, Mustufa and  , were both diamond workers in a small unit earning enough only to fill the belly. Paying for education was a challenge.
 
 It was then that Safin’s mother took took up the challenge and began the tedious job of rolling chapatis, by the hundreds for the local restaurants and marriage halls, to earn that little extra to fund his son’s education.
 
 In Gujarat’s heat — with temperatures hovering around 45°C in peak summer — Naseembanu gets up at 3am to roll 20-200kg chapatis depending on the demand; 1kg roughly has around 40-43 medium sized rotis. She earns Rs 5,000-8,000 per month all of which goes for the education of her two sons: Safin and his younger brother who aims to become a doctor. 
 
 “I have seen her soaked in sweat even in cool mornings as I studied in the kitchen,” recalls an emotional Safin. Interestingly, Safin is also destiny's child. In this mean world, he encountered strangers who opened their purses to pay for his dreams. This includes local businessman Hussain Polra and his wife Raina Polra who funded all of Safin’s   coaching including his travel and stay in Delhi for two years amounting to Rs 3.5 lakh. Earlier, a school principal in Palanpur had waived Rs 80,000 fee in class 11 and 12 as he was a bright student.
 
 “People have held my hand, opening doors for me to fulfil my dreams. I would have never become what I have if not for the kindness of society at large,” says Safin. It is only natural then that Safin, who has been teaching poor children in villages, has a dream which is beyond his own dream. “Safin has told us that from his earnings, he wishes to open a state-of-art residential school for poor children. He wants to pay back society,” says Naseembanu.
 
 
 
 
