HYDERABAD: Consumer electronics giant   has refused to return 1,800 acres of prized land near  , which was allotted to it to set up a power project. Blaming successive state governments for delay, the management dashed off a letter to the state government, demanding renewal of the project.

 The move aimed to scuttle plans of T   and National Thermal Power Corporation to set up another thermal power plant in the area that was allocated to BPL. Though TRS government has initiated attachment of land, BPL has moved court.
 
  
 The land under BPL’s possession has a logistical advantage as the site is near coal mines. This minimizes transport costs for any thermal project. Both NTPC and Genco are eying the land for their expansion plans.
 
 However, citing failure of successive governments in providing a No Objection Certificate for the plant as reason for delay, BPL representatives met governor ESL Narasimhan and pointed out that it had already spent ₹300 crore on the project.
 
 “We have a coal linkage from   for 2.7 million tonnes of coal per annum. We made arrangements for equipment by changing capacity from 520MW to 600MW. We invested big money for acquiring land, to conduct surveys and tests and clearances and also laid foundation for the boiler and turbine works at the proposed site and also constructed compound wall. After incurring ₹300-crore expenditure, the state government wants to take back the land,” said a BPL official.
 
 Local revenue officials have already launched attachment of land of 575 acres. Now, the company has expressed its readiness to complete the project in 24 months, provided the government extends required permissions.
 
 What makes it a most-sought-after site is its proximity to massive coal reserves. According to studies by the Geological Survey of India, at least 22,207 million tonnes of reserves exist in the coal belt area spread across Peddapalli, Mancherial, Asifabad, Bhupalapalli and Kothagudem. An added advantage is its location near Godavari.
 
 BPL was one of the first private developers to come to AP after the late PM PV   initiated reforms in the power sector and opened it to private investments. In 1994, the then government had accorded sanctions for BPL to set up a power plant near Ramagudam. BPL decided to generate 600 MW of 2X300 capacity in the first phase and another 600 MW in second phase.
 
 In 2004, the YSR government had terminated the Power Purchase Agreement as the company failed in the financial closure and transferred the project to AP Genco. This led the company to move courts. Also, Japanese government requested the Centre for revival of project.
 
 
 
