When a life-sized statue of former chief minister J   was unveiled at the AIADMK headquarters on her 70th birth anniversary recently, it broke many hearts. A party worker hurriedly took out a photograph of "Amma" (as Jayalalithaa is fondly called) from his shirt pocket and checked whether there was any resemblance between the two: The photograph and the golden hued statue of the leader. The poor resemblance soon became a topic of discussion on many social networking sites.

 Instances of statues of political leaders and celebrities going terribly wrong are not new. Sculptors say there are many reasons behind it. "I was approached first (for the Jayalalithaa statue). They wanted it in just 20 days. It was impossible. I politely told them that I wanted more time. I think the statue didn’t come out well because it must have been done hurriedly to be unveiled on her birth anniversary," said K G Ravi, a sculptor and creator of many statues of political leaders in Chennai, popular among them being the statues of K Kamaraj (Congress leader) and freedom fighter S Sathyamurthy (Sathyamurthy Bhavan), MGR (KK Nagar) and   (Adyar).
 
 Ravi, who worked under senior sculptor Mani Nagappa, said when Jayalalithaa was chief minister in 2015, she wanted him to make 50 statues of MGR, to be installed across Tamil Nadu, particularly in front of every district headquarters of the party. Ravi even made five statues of MGR, but the current government put the orders on hold after Jayalalithaa’s death. "When we make a statue, we fist prepare a model in clay. Corrections if any are made on the clay model. One has to check whether the features of the statue match with its original. I need at least three months to make a life-sized statue," he said.
 
 Former Madras Art College principal and veteran sculptor G Chandrasekharan said the creator must be in love with the subject he is sculpting. "‘Kaadhal’ (love) is important in this art. If the artist is not in love with the subject, then there is no point," he said, adding that "one should make periodic visits to the place and share his opinion about the unfinished work. This will help the sculptor make the necessary changes." 
 
 At least 90% statues of political leaders and celebrities in Tamil Nadu lack perfection, said Chandrasekharan. "The reason why statues of political leaders go wrong is mainly because they are not done by good sculptors. The sponsors don’t look for the right sculptors. A good sculptor will never compromise on his work. Those who come up with orders want only mediocre work and that too within a couple of weeks. The same thing might have happened in the case of Jayalalithaa statue too," he said.
 
 Statue gaffes are not limited to TN. Former Uttar Pradesh chief minister Mayawati was accused of wasting crores of rupees for several statues of the elephant, her mentor and herself installed across the state. "It was a publicity stunt," said M Murugavel, a sculptor based in Mamallapuram. "Finding the right sculptor is important when it comes to making statues of political leaders and celebrities. The involvement of wrong people spoils the show," he said.
 
 Real Madrid superstar Cristiano Ronaldo’s statues have gone wrong twice. A bust of Ronaldo, designed by famous sculptor Emanuel Santos in Portugal, looked nothing like him. David Beckham and Michael Jackson also suffered a similar fate. The Madam Tussauds Wax Museum in London has some wax statues of celebrities including many Indian actresses that have gone awry.
 
 "There is no guarantee that a statue will come out exactly like the original. I had to make corrections on my statues a number of times. But the issue here is that it is difficult to make corrections once the   is done. So it’s a tricky job," said Ravi.
 
 
