LUDHIANA: A local court has sentenced a person to life imprisonment after finding him guilty in a murder case. The court of additional session judge Anjana also imposed a fine of Rs 10,000, and in default of payment of fine, to further undergo rigorous imprisonment for a period of one year.

 On March 14, 2015,   police station had booked the accused — Santosh Kumar from  , at present living in Koom Kalan — under sections 302 (murder) and 201 (causing disappearance of evidence of offence, or giving false information to screen offender) of the IPC for killing Deepu of Sharifabad village in the same district.
 
 As per prosecution, the complainant Siri Pal got a statement recorded that he was living in Koom Kalan since 1998 with his family, and working in a factory in Kohara. Deepu, son of his younger brother Kallu Sai, who had come from the village about two months ago, had been living with him and working in the same factory. On March 13, 2015, the contractor in the factory —   — invited all persons known to him to his son’s ‘mundan’ ceremony.
 
 His nephew Deepu, son   — along with Santosh Kumar and his juvenile brother-in-law — had gone to attend the contractor’s party where they had a quarrel with Santosh Kumar (contractor Joginder’s co-worker), while dancing in the party. His son Jai Prakash came home and narrated to him about the incident, after which he started going towards the house of Joginder Singh to take his nephew. When he reached near a dhaba at about 11pm, Santosh and his brother-in-law started beating Deepu, who out of fear started running towards the fields.
 
 Siri Pal chased them, but Santosh caught hold of Deepu near the water motor in the fields, and started beating him up. He added that he tried to rescue his nephew, but Santosh also started beating him, after which he ran to his house. His nephew did not come home that day and later they came to know that a body was found in a factory’s acid tank. When the complainant and his son went there, they identified the body as that of his nephew Deepu. He alleged Santosh and Deepak murdered Deepu, and then threw his body in the acid tank to destroy it. But since there was no acid in the tank, the body was saved from being damaged.
 
 During the trial of the case, Santosh denied all allegations and pleaded false implication in the case. The additional public prosecutor for the state pleaded for punishment to the accused on the basis of prosecution witnesses. The court observed: “Had the accused been innocent, there was no occasion for the complainant and other witnesses to depose against him.”
 
 
