MUMBAI: There was no holiday for the BMC demolition teams on Sunday, as the municipal corporation continued the crackdown on unauthorised extensions and fire hazards at commercial establishments that it had begun after the Friday fire on the terrace of a building in Kamala Mills compound killed 13 restaurant-goers and a waiter.

 
 As the city prepared to welcome the New Year, the BMC pulled down illegal extensions and constructions at 356 restobars and restaurant across the city, including in Kamala Mills compound and Raghuvanshi Mills compound. The P-22 banquet hall in Lower Parel, Sheesha Sky Lounge in Raghuvanshi Mills compound, the Bar Stock Exchange in Chembur, Mahesh Lunch Home in Fort, and   in Dadar were among the places that faced such action.
 
  
 It also sealed 30 structures —some fully, some partially — during the drive, citing gross violation of rules. No less than 22 of these were from L-Ward, which extends from   to Sakinaka. In all, the BMC examined 615 establishments. It also seized 426 illegal gas cylinders. The three additional municipal commissioners in charge of the island city, western suburbs and eastern suburbs — all senior IAS officers — hit the streets to supervise the drive and ensure the action was not superficial. Municipal commissioner Ajoy   said he had asked all officers concerned to be on duty. Around 1,000 civic staff participated in the drive. The municipal corporation said it would continue the drive on Monday.
 
 After the  , Mehta had told his officials to check all resto-bars and restaurants preparing for the New Year’s celebrations. The 1Above resto-bar in Kamla Mills compound had a terrace covered with tarpaulin and bamboo. There was also an illegally built toilet. During the fire, many customers took shelter in the toilet and suffocated. After Mehta’s directive, the BMC began its survey and demolition drive on Saturday, when it checked 624 establishments and acted against 314 for violating various rules. The action forced many establishments to cancel New Year’s celebrations, or at leats tone it down several notches.
 
 Some BMC officials said the strict action was creating resentment among businessman and the public. They said that the non-cooperation was making it difficult to arrange labourers for the action. Hoteliers from   even threatened to attack the BMC squads if the action continued on Monday as they said the haphazard and thoughtless demolitions so far had damaged even the legally built compound walls and signboards, besides furniture and structural infrastructure. “They are putting the entire blame for such incidents on all of us by razing our legally built structures. They too are partners in such crimes,” a hotelier said
 
