BENGALURU: National Commission for Safai Karmacharis member Jagadish Hiremani on Wednesday directed the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike ( ) and   (BWSSB) to conduct a joint survey within a week, to find out how many structures, especially apartment complexes, continue to have septic tanks.

 “Once these septic tanks have been identified, the authorities must ensure that they are demolished, as they are illegal. Residents of these buildings must then connect their sewage systems to the underground drainage system,” said Hiremani.
 
 Hiremani was in town to gather details about the deaths of three men while cleaning a sewage treatment plant in Bandepalya. He had meetings with Bengaluru Urban deputy commissioner V Shankar, BBMP joint commissioner ( ) V N Veerabhadra Swamy and BWSSB officials.
 
 During the meeting, the BBMP joint commissioner said the Bandepalya apartment complex in question had their building plan approved by the Bangalore Development Authority in 2009, but had failed to get their sewage treatment plant (STP) registered with the BWSSB. Replying to this, Hiremani said all unauthorized STPs in the city should also be identified and demolished.
 
 “Boards should be installed in front of all STPs, educating the owners on how they should be cleaned and the precautionary measures to be taken. Further, the civic authorities must hold awareness drives to reach out to the public,” said Hiremani.
 
 “I have also asked police to file a case against the accused (in the Bandepalya case) under the Prohibition of Employment as Manual Scavengers and their Rehabilitation Act, 2013, as this is a non-bailable offence,” he added.
 
 Both Hiremani and deputy commissioner Shankar agreed that Rs 10 lakh compensation should paid to the families of the deceased. Further, those dependent on them must be provided houses and employment, and their children be provided free education.
 
 Officials to be held responsible
 
 Hiremani said it’s shocking that nobody has been held responsible or punished with regard to the Bandepalya STP deaths. “There are clear government orders stating no person should be directly employed to clean sewage lines or soakpits. And there are provisions to book non-bailable cases against those employing manual scavengers. In future, the officials concerned will be held responsible if such cases are repeated,” he said.
 
  not registered
 
 District social welfare officer Lakshman Reddy submitted a report, saying the association currently in charge of the apartment in Bandepalya, is not registered. “During inspection, it was found that an electrical contractor who doesn’t have the required experience in STP maintenance and his two workers were assigned to clean the STP. Since it is a private structure, compensation to the families of the victims has to be borne by the apartment association,” he added.
 
 
