CHANDIGARH: Call it coincidence or some possible reason, power and irrigation minister Rana Gurjit Singh’s resignation comes ahead of the much-awaited expansion of the council of ministers in Punjab. Amid uncertainty whether senior party leaders may have to wait till the Ludhiana civic body elections for their induction, the expansion issue is likely to be discussed when chief minister   meets party president   on Wednesday.

 Amid talk of a minor reshuffle, party sources said if Rana’s resignation was accepted, many of his cabinet colleagues would like to bag the coveted power portfolio. “There are some leaders who have been making statements on power issues and they would want to swap their departments for this high profile one,” said a party leader.
 
 One key reason for keeping the expansion on hold till the Ludhiana MC elections is that the claim of at least one of the senior party MLAs from the area gets diminished. Apart from Pandey, Bharat Bhushan Ashu and Surinder Kumar Dabar too are senior party leaders and MLAs from Ludhiana west and central constituencies, respectively. “There is a feeling that the performance of some of the cabinet ministers has been below expectations. In such a scenario, the party could make some changes to infuse some new life into the cabinet,” said a party leader. 
 
 Meanwhile, there has also been talk of it being a mix of senior legislators and young leaders. After the   took over in March, there has been a talk of cabinet expansion every few months and earlier there was talk of filling some of the available slots. Amarinder presently has his plate full with a whole lot of portfolios, including transport, agriculture and excise and taxation and nine of his cabinet ministers are left with just a couple of departments each. He had inducted nine ministers, seven in Cabinet and two as ministers of state on March 16.
 
 Along side names of senior MLAs like three-time Dera Baba Nanak MLA Sukhjinder Singh Randhawa, five-time Amritsar (central) MLA O P Soni, four-time MLA from Ludhiana (north) Rakesh Kumar Pandey, Guru Har Sahai MLA Rana   Sodhi and Amritsar (west) MLA Raj Kumar Verka, there are speculations that chances of younger leaders like Vijay Inder Singla, All India Youth Congress president Amrinder Singh Raja Warring and Kuljit Singh Nagra are also bright.
 
 
