HYDERABAD: Another spotted deer died on the   campus on Friday after it fell into a 20-feet ditch. Four deer died on the UoH campus in a span of two weeks.

 Ironically, the deaths are occurring at a time when the   is setting up life-size installations of spotted deer, the state animal of  , as part of its beautification drive.
 
 In the Friday’s incident, the deer fell into a ditch after it was chased by a pack of stray dogs near J Hostel, south campus. “We immediately brought out the deer from the ditch and rushed it to the nearby veterinary hospital. However, the animal could not be saved,” said Ravi Jillapalli, founder of  , a wildlife protection group at the university.
 
 
 
 In the last two years, over 100 spotted deer have been mauled to death by stray dogs on the University of Hyderabad campus.
 
 “We fear that apart from the deaths that have occurred in the open areas, several spotted deer may have been mauled to death by stray dogs deep inside the forest area of the university. The authorities have only conducted meetings and have done nothing on the ground level to protectthewildlifeon campus,” said Jillapalli.
 
 Officials from the Telangana forest department passed the buck on the university authorities. The Telangana forest department officials claimed that the university have failed to protect the campus boundaries. “In the last few meetings, we had suggested the university to protectboundariesof thecampus. However, the university cited lack of funds to do the same,” said A Shankaran, officer on special duty, wildlife.
 
 He called the deaths of spotted deer on the university as ‘unfortunate’.
 
 While the students cry hoarse over deer deaths, authorities continue to wash their hands of the whole issue. “We are concerned about the deaths of spotted deer as the short term measures are failing tocurb the menace. We will have to come up with a more sustainable plan to save the state animal. We will shortly hold consultations with the forest department officials to tackle the issue,” said Vinod Pavarala, UoH spokesperson.
 
 
  
 
