UDAIPUR: Members of the Udaipur Bar Association took out a massive two-wheeler rally in the city to press their long-standing demand for a permanent high court bench in Udaipur. Though the rally, which passed through the interior of   area was peaceful, protesters carried flags, banners and raised slogans against the state government and shouted “Jo high court bench ki baat karega, wahi   par raj karega.”

 Hundreds of volunteers, not just bar members, from several social groups and trade associations participated in the rally that set off from the district and sessions court campus at Ambedkar circle. The rally began around 9 am from the court campus which passed through Delhi Gate, Bapu Bazaar, Surajpole, Jheeni Ret, Sindhi Bazaar, Ghantaghar, Moti Chohatta, Hathipole, Chetak Circle, and Hospital Road, culminated at the court campus. Commuters had a difficult time wading through the narrow lanes while the procession was passing through the busy streets and markets. Bar members have been sitting on an indefinite protest for 22 days now and holding meetings at different wards in the city area to create awareness and seek public participation in their struggle for the HC bench.
 
 During the rally, senior members raised slogans against chief minister  , home minister Gulabchand Kataria and claimed that they have been only making false promises of conveying the demand to the Centre however, the public representatives have taken no pains in making sincere efforts for a permanent bench in Udaipur which is strongly needed in a tribal-dominant area like Udaipur.
 
 Women   were seen riding in open jeeps during the rally. Senior lawyers said that the agitation has been going on since 36 years, however, if this time the demand is not considered, the community would be forced to take extreme steps like violent protests and Bandh. Veteran lawyer and former speaker of legislative assembly   announced to go on an indefinite hunger strike if the authorities did not pay heed to the demand. Senior Congress and   members, volunteers of the Bajrang Sena, Shiv Sena, Rajasthan Nav Nirman Sena, AAP members too extended their support by participating in the rally.
 
 
