THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The state government has its fingers crossed over the performance of   (PSU) and is likely to issue a warning to units running on losses to wind up operations. 

 Of the 35 public sector manufacturing units under the industry department in the state, 27 have incurred losses to the tune of Rs 196 crore. Huge profits made by the   (KMML), the Travancore Titanium Products (TTP) and the Travancore Cochin Chemicals (TCC) are being offset by the loss-making units. Department sources said the 27 manufacturing units under the department made the losses during the first 11 months of 2017-18 fiscal year.
 
 "Up to 88% of the profits earned by the KMML (Rs 167 crore), the TTP (Rs 21.51 crore) and the TCC (Rs 25.04 crore) have been eaten up by the loss-making companies. Eight companies together have reported a profit of Rs 220 crore (before audit) during the same period.
 
 Ironically, there has been no robust performance appraisal system and disincentive systems for managing directors who have been thriving on their political connections and false promises," said an official maintaining anonymity. 
 
 Prominent among the loss-making units are: The   (Rs 28.89 crore), The Kerala Electrical and Allied Engineering Company Limited (KEL) (Rs15.97 crore), the SAIL-SCL Ltd (Rs 13.62 crore), Keltron (Rs 12.20 crore), the Autokast (Rs 11.60 crore), the Traco Cable company (Rs 7.17 crore), The   (Rs 6.62 crore), the Travancore Cements (Rs 10.17 crore), the   (Rs 9.08 crore), the Kerala Automobiles Ltd (Rs 5.86 crore) and all the Co-operative Spinning Mills (Rs 6-crore each) and the Kerala State Drugs and Pharmaceuticals (KSDP) (Rs 4.48 crore). 
 
 These figures are un-audited. Almost all these companies had even implemented many restructuring packages under the Board of Industrial and Financial Restructuring (BIFR), experimenting with public money.
 
 The Public Sector Restructuring and Internal Audit Board (RIAB) and the industries minister are pinning hopes on growth in orderbook of Keltron and the KSDP for the 2017-18 fiscal year. They also expect a further surge in profits of the KMML to improve the overall scenario. 
 
 As of February-end 2018, the PF dues of employees have touched Rs 25.14 crore and trade unions have been demanding its settlement from the tax payer's money as was done in the past. 
 
 The trade unions have been demanding that profits of companies performing well should be used to prevent loss-making units from closing down. Though Rs 270 crore was earmarked in the budget for such PSUs, only less that 50% could be utilized. With the finance minister bringing in strict financial discipline and the lack of capacity on the part of the loss-making companies to bring about a turnaround, it is certain that these companies will continue their dismal performance. 
 
 The successive governments have been reluctant to disown the PSUs as they have been using the trade unions as a vote bank, and hence, they do not publicize the real quantum of losses, said an official. 
 
 
 
