PATNA: Governor-cum-chancellor   has reportedly expressed his concern over the delay in implementing the decisions taken at the last two meetings with the vice-chancellors.

 In the first meeting held on November 25, the VCs were asked to hold student union election in their respective universities latest by January 15. However, no   could hold the elections by the deadline set by the chancellor. In their subsequent meeting with the chancellor on December 18, some of the VCs had pointed out some procedural wrangles in conducting these elections. Those problems have now be resolved by a three-member committee constituted by the   and the chancellor has set a new deadline for completion of student union elections latest by the end of February.
 
 Patna University (PU) has already made necessary preparations for holding the elections, but the same is being deferred time and again owing to some unavoidable circumstances. Now the university is contemplating to hold elections between February 10 and 24 after the scheduled visit of President   to PU on February 7 or 8.
 
 As   is supposed to be a hard taskmaster, he has initiated some strong measures for streamlining the higher education system and improving the working of the universities. He is very keen on implementation of the choice-based credit system (CBCS) in all the universities from the next academic session and, hence, has entrusted this task to   Rash Bihari Prasad Singh. The VC has reportedly initiated the exercise and allotted core subjects to different universities as per the expertise available therein to frame the syllabi for the three-year degree stage. PU has been allotted the maximum number of subjects (altogether 11) followed by Magadh,   and L N Mithila universities. The universities would be supposed to finalize the syllabi as per CBCS latest by the end of February so that they could be made available to the Raj Bhavan at the earliest. The universities would also have to shift to grading system, instead of marks, following the introduction of CBCS. 
 
 Other important decisions to be implemented by the universities include introduction of biometric attendance for their teachers, research scholars and non-teaching staff, framing their academic and examination calendars latest by March-end and regularizing their academic sessions as soon as possible. The universities have also been directed to take necessary steps for improving the quality of research, timely payment of retirement benefits to university teachers and staff, strengthening of grievance redressal cells, enforcement of financial discipline, getting colleges and universities accreditated by   and promotion of sports and cultural activities in universities. The universities have been further asked to construct toilets attached to the girls’ common rooms in all the colleges and not to grant affiliation to the colleges which lack common room with attached toilet for girl students.
 
 Needless to say, hardly any university has so far been able to prepare the blueprints for execution of all these decisions within the time frame. The chancellor will take stock of the universities’ progress on these fronts at the next review meeting likely to be held on January 29 at Raj Bhavan.
 
 Meanwhile, the Raj Bhavan has reconstituted the university advisory committee with PU VC as its chairman to expedite speedy implementation of the various measures aimed at improving higher education and also to dispose of all pending cases of approval of ordinance and regulations of new courses to be started in different universities.
 
 
