CHANDIGARH: Railway protection force (RPF) deployed at   would soon be seen wearing body cameras. The new gadget that would be allotted to the RPF personnel would make them more vigilant while patrolling at platforms. 

 After the directions given by Union railway minister Piyush Goyal,   division decided to introduce this at a high-level meeting with the RPF officials.
 
 During the meeting, the RPF officials were asked to work on four agendas for better security at the station, which includes body-worn cameras, hi-tech CCTV cameras, women safety and control on human trafficking through trains.
 
 Sources said that the minister asked the RPF officials that the body worn cameras should be given to the staff at the earliest so as to keep a tap on staff movement.
 
 In the meeting, it was discussed that the cameras should be connected to the central control room, which the senior officials monitor so that supervision of security at the station can be done. Besides this, the minister also proposed to provide the RPF staff with hi-tech walkie-talkies.
 
 "The division has decided to order the body worn cameras after the minister's instructions and soon the equipment would be issued to the staff. It will not only help in monitoring the movement of the staff but also to keeping a check on the security of the station," said senior divisional security commissioner of Ambala division   Brar. 
 
 She said that there were 70 cops at the Chandigarh Railway Station but the equipment would be given to only a few initially. She said that the average cost of one body worn camera is Rs 20,000.
 
 The high profile meeting also discussed installation of the hi-tech CCTV cameras at the platforms and illegal entries of the station, booking counters and parcel office.
 
 The minister asked the officials to get their plans approved at the earliest and start installing fresh cameras at stations.
 
 Kamaljot said that the division had already submitted a master plan of CCTV cameras for all the divisions costing Rs 4 crore. For Chandigarh station, 103 cameras were proposed in which all the areas would be covered by the RPF.
 
 Sources said that the minister also asked the RPF to keep a check on the women safety. Referring to the passenger percentage of women, which is 35 to 40% annually compare to women RPF staff of 3.09%, the minister asked the officials to motivate more women to join the force.
 
 
