HYDERABAD: After distributing 35.52 lakh sheep at a total cost of over ₹2,000 crore, chief minister   now wants the   (CESS) to study and evaluate the massive sheep project before the second phase of the scheme starts in next fiscal.

 The study assumes significance against the backdrop of a series of reports that recycling of distributed sheep has taken place i.e., the already existing sheep in   was taken to neighbouring states, sold to the teams from Telangana scouting for sheep and thereby defeating the very purpose of increase the sheep livestock, meat production and improving the livelihood and income in rural areas.
 
 Also, there have been reports of death of sheep due to transportation stress as the animals are being brought from long distance villages in neighbouring states. The study will also reveal whether there were any problems in fodder availability and did the 100 mobile veterinary clinics launched by KCR himself have been successful in attending to the health of the animals. There are also reports that the distributed assets i.e., a unit of sheep comprising 20 female and a male animal were being sold by the beneficiaries at many places.
 
 CESS will hire research scholars and post graduates from the concerned field to do the job by visiting the door steps of the sheep beneficiaries and interacting them in addition to physically verifying the sheep stock and when the export of meat can commence. “The scope of the study, questionnaire, sample size, duration and other terms of reference will be finalised before Sankranti. The field visits as part of the study would commence after the festival. The total cost of the scheme is over ₹5,000 crore and the chief minister wants to see the golden era of rural Telangana by reviving the rural economy,” animal husbandry director   told TOI.
 
 The study will also look into the details of progeny of the distributed sheep. A ccording to the officials, the distributed sheep have given birth to over 5 lakh lambs as on December 31.
 
 
