PATNA: Patna   will soon install solar energy panels on its important buildings and take up rainwater harvesting projects with a view to creating an eco-friendly environment on the campus. PU will also bring out books on indigenous and traditional knowledge and flora on PU campus. 

 These decisions were taken at the first-ever meeting of the newly created   (IQAC) of PU held here on Tuesday under the chairmanship of vice-chancellor Rash  .
 
 To start with, solar lights and geysers would be installed at university guesthouse, vice-chancellor’s residence and GDS Girls’ Hostel. Later, these facilities would be extended to other buildings on the campus. Similarly, rainwater harvesting structures would be created at the departments of geology, botany and physics on   campus. Earlier, the department of geology had undertaken such project about two decades back and the results were quite encouraging. Such socially relevant projects would also be taken in some other institutions of PU.
 
 The VC said the university would soon set up a research publication committee with a view to publishing the noteworthy research works carried out in the university. The manuscripts of any scholar of the university would be placed before this committee and, when approved, would be sent to three external referees for their opinion. If all the three referees have their reports in positive, it would be published at the cost of the university.
 
 The university also constituted faculty-wise research advisory committees for undertaking research projects and monitoring quality research in the university. An ethical committee was also constituted at the meeting.
 
 Meanwhile, PU on Tuesday started 10-day computer training under its skill development programme for its non-teaching employees. Such training programmes would be held at regular intervals, the VC said.
 
 Singh asserted that computer training has been made mandatory for all the employees. Those who do not undergo this training would lose their annual increment and promotion, he warned.
 
 PU pro-VC  , registrar  , students’ welfare dean N K Jha, proctor G K   and deans of all faculties, heads of departments and college principals attended the meeting. 
 
 
