TNN

 Mumbai:  , the majority shareholder of  , have “prejudiced” the Mistry family-owned firms’ interest in the holding company of the Tata Group and that’s reason enough for the court to intervene. On Thursday, Aryaman Sundaram, the counsel for Cyrus Investments and Sterling Investments, said this at the Mumbai bench of the National Company Law Tribunal ( ).
 
 Sundaram pointed out that under the new Companies Act, “prejudice being caused or likely to be caused to any member of a company was adequate to bring in the intervention of the court”. This wasn’t the case under the old law as there was no reference to prejudice to members and instead allowed the court to intervene in case of oppression. Over the years protection of investors’ interests has become a major policy consideration and prejudice to the Mistry family-owned firms as investors call for protection from Tata Trusts’ conduct, Sundaram said. 
 
 In one of the hearings, Tata counsel Abhishek Singhvi had said that Tata Trusts, with its 66% shareholding in Tata Sons, reserved the right to remove the board of directors of the company and that the veto rights are nothing to complain about. Taking on Singhvi’s statements, Sundaram said that the argument itself demonstrates how Singhvi’s clients have given instructions to take pride in their unfairness — which alone shows the predilection to indulging in unfair conduct against the Mistrys. 
 
 Cyrus Investments and Sterling Investments made their rejoinder on Thursday after eight days of arguments by Tata counsels. The case relates to Mistrys claiming mismanagement and minority shareholder oppression at Tata Sons. The petition was filed after Tata Sons removed   from the chairman’s post in October 2016.
 
 When Ravi Kadam, counsel for Tata Trusts’ nominated director, stated that each Tata Trusts was distinct and separate and hence couldn’t be termed as a group, Sundaram argued that Tata Sons’ own documents ranging from the Articles of Association to the shareholding pattern depict Tata Trusts as a group of all the trusts and they collectively have the power to nominate directors who enjoy a veto right on all matters placed before the board. 
 
 Tata Sons, said Sundaram, has the most peculiar Articles of Association in the country and the only one in which veto rights are granted to nominees of the majority shareholder while most investment agreements have veto rights in favour of minority investors.
 
 
