NAGPUR: The high court directives to all local bodies to ensure fire safety and preventive measures in all buildings under their respective jurisdiction notwithstanding, the   ( ), it seems, has shut its eyes towards the implementation of the directives. If an information procured through   is anything to go by, at least three commercial and industrial buildings situated in the prime locations of the city lack the mandatory fire  .

 The three buildings are: Chaudhari Lifestyle situated on the Ring Road between Khamla square and   square, and two others owned by a well-known motor showroom. The owners, however, started mending their ways after being slapped with notices by the fire and emergency services department but parried the question as to why they did not obtain NOC before the construction of the buildings.
 
 RTI activist T H Naidu on December 16 submitted a complaint with municipal commissioner Ashwin Mudgal, demanding stringent action against town planning department officials.
 
 “Fire NOC is mandatory for commercial and industrial buildings with an area of 150 sq.mt and above. Also, fire NOC is must for residential buildings with height of 15 meter and above,” he said.
 
 “The town planning department has to seek fire NOC from the applicants before sanctioning the building plans. In several cases, building plans have been sanctioned without fire NOC, which is not only against the norms but also serious threat to public life and property,” he said.
 
 Naidu said that officials from the NMC zone offices and fire department did not take action against violators before complaints filed. “I submitted an application to the town planning department and the zone offices seeking information under RTI about details of four new buildings in August. Information was not given citing one or other reasons. Then I lodged a complaint with the fire department in September,” he said.
 
 “The fire officials inspected three buildings in November that too after repeated follow-ups. I obtained documents of inspection and notices under RTI Act, which revealed all three buildings lack the fire NOC,” the activist said.
 
 Naidu further said Chaudhari Lifestyle, a clothes and garments showroom, did not obtain NOC before building plan sanction and construction. “It is a basement+ground+three floors building. Basement parking is restricted for visitors. Ground to third floor is stored with clothes and garments. Thus, the building is very sensitive,” he said.
 
 One of owners of the showroom,   said he will ensure installation of all equipments and systems suggested to them by the NMC fire department through the notice. 
 
 Naidu said the NMC town planning department and zone office is not ready to give copies of building plan sanction of the building situated at Deo Nagar under the RTI Act. “It was a residential building which was later converted for industrial purpose,” he said.
 
 
