TUTICORIN: Demanding permanent closure of Sterlite, arrest of its chairman for environmental pollution, seizure of properties and Rs 20 lakh compensation for the families of those who died of cancer, hundreds of people from the city and surrounding villages took part in a fast organised by the anti-Sterlite protesters at VVD Signal here on Saturday.

 Talking to reporters, coordinator of the protest Tamilmaandhan told reporters that the fast is pressing on seven main demands. “Chief Minister   should call all his ministers, discuss the pressing issues pertaining to pollution by Sterlite, respect the sentiments of the people and take steps for the immediate closure of the copper plant in Tuticorin,” he added.
 
 Earlier, the protesters had sought permission for a 72-hour fast, but police denied permission for the same. They then moved the Madras high court and based on its direction, the Tuticorin district police granted 12-hour permission on Saturday till 6pm. While police said that the fast which began at 8am and should conclude at 6pm, the protesters said that they would continue the protest till Sunday.
 
 Meanwhile, the Tuticorin Stevedores’ Association (TSA) handling manual cargo at the V O Chidambaranar Port Trust in Tuticorin has appealed to the chief minister to take steps to resume copper production in Sterlite. TSA president T Velsankar said that Sterlite is the single largest private company handling a consistent annualised volume of about 38 lakh metric tonnes (MT) of cargo.
 
 According to the petition, this includes 12 lakh MT copper concentrate, 8 lakh MT rock phosphate, 8 lakh MT coal, 2 lakh MT export containers and 8 lakh MT liquid cargo. This is in addition to 8 lakh MT phosphoric acid and sulphuric acid. “Stoppage of production has affected the livelihood of thousands of freight operators, drivers and their related industries,” he said.
 
 The association appealed to the government to also consider economy, employment opportunities and industrial impact of the stoppage of production by Sterlite. 
 
 
