SURAT: The   are yet to get a breakthrough into the   double murder case where bodies of a 25-year-old woman and a five-year-old boy was found near a rivulet on May 19.

 
 
 
 Despite several attempts and sharing the details with other police stations, identity of the deceased are yet not known.
 
 Police had initially zeroed in on a missing mother and son from Pandesara, but it was later revealed that the woman had eloped with her school-time friend and was alive. 
 
 Samples from both the bodies have been sent for DNA profiling to know if woman and boy are related. The report is likely to arrive in few days.
 
 Both the bodies were partially decomposed and packed in a plastic bag, hence their faces were not recognizable. This created major challenge for the police. It is suspected that the deceased were killed almost 10 days before they were found from near Iklera crossroads in Saniya village limits.
 
 Surat police have sent a team of cops to Dahod and   with details of the jewellery and other material found on the bodies. 
 
 “We will also publish poster and circulated it to identify the deceased. We are trying to trace the woman’s parents,” the police said.
 
 In April, unidentified bodies of a woman and her 11-year-old daughter from Pandesara had become a challenge for the city police. The case was detected by Ahmedabad crime branch. Three more persons were found murdered in Pandesara in April. However, those cases still remain unsolved. 
 
 SEVEN YEARS ON, MINOR GIRL’S MURDER ALSO UNSOLVED 
 
 Body of a seven-year-old schoolgirl was found from C R Patil Nagar in Didnoli area in December 2011 and the case was registered in Limbayat police station. Postmortem revealed that the girl was raped and then strangled to death. The body was hanged to a wall. This case still remains unsolved after seven years. The girl was wearing school uniform similar to that of   near Ishwar Krupa in Varachha. The girl’s head was also banged on the wall several times in an attempt to disfigure the face. 
 
 
