CHENNAI: Commuters in the city found themselves stranded on Wednesday, with cabbies pulling off the road as part of a country-wide protest and app-based taxi aggregators like   Cabs and   inflating fares in response, leaving only a small fraction of the large fleets of ride-hailing services available through a manic weekday.

 People arriving in town were worst hit. Frustrated groups of passengers milled outside the airport, at the   bus terminus and   and   railway stations, stabbing at their cellphone screens or making calls to no avail.
 
 Regular   users who did manage to summon a cab had to wait for more than 30 minutes for their ride to arrive. Most finally settled for prepaid taxis; others took autorickshaws.
 
 
 
 
 Around 40,000 cabs — Ola, Uber and Fast Track drivers called the protest over aggregators setting stiff targets while slashing incentives — stayed off the roads on Wednesday.
 
 Cabbies said firms failed to make fare-and-pay system transparent, forcing many of them to work 20-hour days to complete the mandatory number of rides to earn incentives.
 
 App-hailing services increased base fares by between 50% and 60% and actual rates rose to double the normal during peak hours as the battle between aggregators and drivers spilled over to customers.
 
 “I had to wait for close to an hour to get a share cab,” Navalur resident S Dinesh said. “I normally pay between ?150 and ?200 to my office in Tidel Park from home, but I had to pay ?350 today.”
 
 Several drivers who did not heed the strike call said they got threats from protesters. At least one working cabbie was attacked, in Koyambedu.
 
 Transport department officials held talks with the protesting drivers outside Chepauk on Wednesday and promised to resolve the issues within 10 days.
 
 Later, however, transport minister M R Vijayabaskar said there was not much the state to do to resolve the matter. The drivers’ would, he said, have to take their demands [eight hours or work and fare slabs] to the Union road transport ministry.
 
 Industry experts have noted that a rising preference for app-hailed cabs across the country has in the past two years doubled the fleet sizes of most aggregator services.
 
