During the scripting stage of the upcoming thriller 6ne Maili, director See Ni did not want any songs, considering the genre of the film. But when music director   suggested a   number — something that hasn’t really been explored in Kannada films before — See Ni thought that it would be a good fit. Producer Dr Shailesh Kumar, who has made this film under the Sri Nagabrahma Creations banner, ensured that no stone was left unturned for the song —   title track — to be at par with international standards.
“There is only one song in the film, and I thought that death metal perfectly suits a particular situation in it. So, I started looking for death metal artistes here, but didn’t find a perfect fit. That’s when I approached music arranger Andrew T Mackay, who has worked with AR Rahman in the past. Andrew suggested that we record the song in London’s Metropolis Studios — the best studio in Europe, where Michael Jackson, Lady Gaga, Adele and U2 have recorded their songs,” says Sai Kiran.
 “I thought that it was irrelevant to have songs in the film, but when Sai Kiran told me about death metal, I was intrigued. Death metal is an extreme form of metal, so after discussing it with Sai Kiran, I wrote the lyrics for the song that was in line with the script, after which the tune was composed,” says See Ni.
 Next, it was time for Dr Shailesh to head to London for the recording; See Ni and Sai Kiran coordinated with the musicians through video call. “The musicians that we used are rated among the top 20 in the world. The sound engineer and mastering engineer are Grammy Award winners. Andrew then suggested that we do the mixing at a popular studio in Mumbai, where it was done by Shantanu Hudlikar. On Shantanu’s suggestion, we headed back to London, for the mastering at Abbey Road Studios. Because of all this, the song has turned out to be beyond what we all expected,” See Ni adds, of the track that has been sung by  . Why Vasishta, we ask? “We could have picked a singer from Bollywood, but we wanted a local singer, and thought that Vasishta’s voice was apt,” says See Ni.
 
