CHENNAI: Enthused by the offer of free rides, hundreds of city residents made a beeline to   a day after CMRL opened two new stretches linking major transport hubs. Curious commuters queued up at all major stations, including the newly inaugurated Central Metro, the largest underground transit hub, Saidapet and AG-DMS, but many were irked by teething troubles they faced. 

 
 
  
  
 
 
 At Central Metro, the staff were kept on their toes by the steady flow of passengers wanting to check out the facility that took shape under their feet over half a decade. Automatic Fare Collection gates, where smartcards are swiped before entering the paid area, were kept open as outsourced personnel directed commuters to the platforms. “There are signboards but they are not enough as the station is so huge. We were completely lost when we walked in,” said S Kumaran from Pudupet. Metro rail officials said nearly 50,000 commuters took a ride after trains were operated for free from 3pm on Friday. The free rides have been extended till 10pm on Sunday.
 
 Though Central Metro had ample space to handle the crowd, many commuters found it difficult to enter the station, as only one entry point, adjacent to Park station, was opened for the 70,000 sqm three-deck station. “They should have got one more entrance ready for passengers who want to go to Central. Isn’t this hub all about connecting all stations here?” asked A Mathivanan who arrived at the station from Anna Nagar to board a long-distance train at Central. He was forced to take a pedestrian subway adjacent to the metro station entrance to reach Central.
 
 Commuters witnessed similar issues at AG-DMS on Anna Salai as there were entry points only on one side. In some stations, there were other technical issues like syncing and opening of platform screen doors and poor mobile network connectivity. “We opened the routes for free because we want to encourage people to use our service regularly,” said a metro rail official, adding, “Now that we have opened major stations, we expect the footfall to go up significantly.”
 
 But commuters said this was likely only if CMRL sorted out several issues. “The construction is not complete in some stations. There seems to be no transport available for us to reach our localities from the stations and, above all, fares are high,” said P Anand, a resident from Kilpauk. “We took a metro ride only because it was free. If they want good patronage, they have to reduce the ticket fare.”
 
 
