NEW DELHI: Former India captain   believes that  ' titanic No 3 batsman   is rushing through his shots, and that this puts him at risk of not cashing in on his starts. 

 
 
 
 
 Since he made a comeback to India's T20I team for the tour of South Africa in February, Raina has scores of 15, 31, 43, 1, 28, 27, 47 and 0 all at a strike-rate of 141.7. In his most recent match for CSK on Saturday during the   11 opener, Raina 4 off 6 balls, out caught at mid-on when making a mess of an attempted pull shot. 
 
 Writing in his column for TOI, Srikkanth, who was part of the CSK setup as an advisor a few seasons ago, felt that if Raina - who is the IPL's all-time leading run-getter with 4544 - curbed his enthusiasm early in an innings it would serve his franchise better. 
 
 "Over the last decade, Suresh Raina's form has been one of the key factors in the success of Chennai Super Kings. CSK are a different unit when Raina comes to the party. My observation of Raina since his comeback in to the national T20 scheme of things is that he needs to give himself a few more deliveries to settle down in the middle before unleashing his range of shots," wrote Srikkanth in his column for TOI. 
 
 
 
 
 "I feel he is rushing through his strokes a touch early. It was evident on a few occasions in his recent international T20s and now in the IPL opener against  , too, he tried to be aggressive from the start. If he can give himself some space in the initial phase of his innings, then he can go on to destroy any attack."
 
 Having narrowly beaten defending champions Mumbai Indians in the tournament opener, CSK next play Kolkata Knight Riders in Chennai on Tuesday. "MS Dhoni & Co are back to Chepauk for their clash against KKR. Dhoni has always been a master tactician while operating his spin resources on tracks that offer assistance for the tweakers. The way he handles his spinners during the Powerplay is quite a treat to watch and his knowledge of the Chepauk pitch would be a big advantage," wrote Srikkanth, who captained India in four Test matches and 13 ODIs.
 
 On Saturday, chasing a target of 166 at the Wankhede Stadium, CSK were taken to victory by  's 30-ball 68 which featured seven sixes and a clutch unbeaten 24 from new member  . Commenting on Bravo's ballistic innings, Srikkanth wrote: "It seemed Bravo's self-belief only grew further with every falling wicket at the other end. I think self-belief is his greatness. It's not easy to clear the boundaries at will against the likes of   and   under pressure. I like his calmness when the going gets tough, his attitude towards the game and his commitment to the team is fantastic. A key strike-bowler at the death, Bravo hitting form with the bat in the beginning of the tournament is a big boost for CSK."
 
