SHIMLA : Even as the BJP celebrated its victory in the assembly elections of Tripura and Nagaland, Congress leaders in Himachal Pradesh went into a huddle in Mandi on Saturday to devise a strategy to defeat the BJP in the state in the parliamentary elections scheduled for next year. 

 This was the first time that the Congress held a state-level convention outside Shimla. State leadership selected Mandi to boost the morale of its cadre, as the party lost all 10 seats in the district in the assembly elections.
 
 Though Congress wanted to put up a united show before the elections, the absence of former chief minister Virbhadra Singh and his MLA son,  , from the meeting raised eyebrows, said sources in the party. 
 
 The party’s incharge for state,  , also was not present. The co-incharge, Ranjeet Ranjan, was present. Congress state president Sukhvinder Singh chaired the day-long convention also attended by senior leaders G S Bali and  . It was resolved that party would launch unified attack on BJP in the coming parliamentary election. Throughout the day, Modi government and four BJP MPs from state remained under attack of Congress leaders.
 
 Sukhu said not even a single promise made by Modi with the people of Himachal Pradesh during 2014 parliamentary election has been fulfilled. He said people of the state were feeling cheated at the hands of BJP. He said party workers will create awareness among masses about the failure of Modi and his MPs to fulfill the promises.
 
 In the convention five resolutions against the BJP governments at centre and state were also passed. One of the resolutions passed was regarding the failure of Modi to fulfill promises made in 2014 elections. Resolution said that neither black money was brought back to India nor Rs 15 lakh was deposited in bank account of each Indian citizen. It said that promise of providing 2 crore jobs every year also proved to be a “jumla”.
 
 Another resolution passed was on Modi’s poll promise of increasing import duty on apple. Resolution said in May 2014, Modi, while addressing an election rally at Solan, promised to increase import duty by three times, but nothing happened. It that apple was also not included under special category product list. 
 
 Third resolution passed in the meeting was regarding the failure of BJP government in state to improve law and order situation. Fourth resolution passed was on the issue of saffronisation of educational institutions and making amendments in Section 118 of HP Land Act Fifth resolution passed was on the issue of talking “Hisab De Saansad, Jawab De Saansad” programme to each and every panchayat of state. 
 
 
