KOLKATA: Save for allocations for the existing   projects in Kolkata and the suburbs, Bengal may not get much from the   to be tabled in Parliament on Thursday.

 Plagued by land acquisition problems several railway projects, including Metro expansion plans, are running behind schedule and are facing cost overruns. The Centre isn’t happy with the pace of several Metro projects, including   corridor, but is unlikely to starve these for funds.
 
 According to a   official, removal of encroachments from railway land is turning out to be a major problem. “This is happening along the existing Metro stretch where efforts are on to extend the corridor to Dakshineswar and the Kolkata airport. All projects are facing cost and time overruns due to problems with acquisition of land. Despite efforts by the state government, it has still not been possible to acquire sufficient land for a car shed for the Joka-BBD Bag metro link,” the official said.
 
 Interestingly, most of the Metro projects were announced by Mamata Banerjee when she was railway minister and they started from 2010-11. According to another official, links like Joka-BBD Bag and connectivity to Dakshineswar and the airport should have been completed by now.
 
 However, the state and the Ministry of Railways over the past few months have weeded out the problems. The Centre is unlikely to put a fund spanner, sources said, as these projects are nearing completion now.
 
 Some other projects in the state may even get shelved and sent to the ‘Rs 1,000 allocation bracket’ due to lack of physical progress.
 
 “When the Ministry of Railways is no longer interested in a project but doesn’t want to shut it down officially, only a token allotment of Rs 1,000 is made annually for it in the budget. There are apprehensions that some projects may get shelved. So far as new ones are concerned, there seems little possibility. The ongoing metro projects are likely to get proper allocations,” a railway official said.
 
 Among the projects that the railways is no longer interested in is the link between   and Champadanga. The state was paid Rs 23 crore to acquire land for the project but it failed to do so. The link between Arambagh and Bowaichandi may also get shelved due to this hurdle. Work on the 18.80 km Deshpran–Nandigram link has also stopped after people moved court over land acquisition. The connectivity between Dankuni and   is also caught in similar trouble.
 
 However, the railways will not close down commercially unviable lines where services operate. The railways had recently carried out an exercise to seek 50% participation of states towards the costs involved in operations. Under Eastern Railway, the lines identified were Sonarpur-Canning, Santipur-Nabadwipghat, Barasat-Hasnabad, Kalyani-Kalyani Simanta, Ballygunge-Budge Budge, Baruipur-Namkhana, Burdwan-Katwa and Bhimghar-Palasthali.
 
