 is unnecessarily made complicated and expensive. It is something that everyone should have access to, feels fitness expert   Diwekar, who has launched a one-of-a-kind, free, public fitness project where she will be giving one guideline per week for 12 weeks, ensuring you live healthy ever after. By the end of those 12 weeks/3 months, you will be doing 12 different things or 12 things differently, which will put you permanently on your way to fitness. Here are a few excerpts from the project guidelines:

 
  Start your day with a banana or any fresh fruit/soaked almonds/ soaked raisins and NOT with tea or coffee.
 
 
 Eat ghee. Without fear, without guilt, without doubt. Add 1 tsp of ghee to breakfast, lunch and dinner. It is especially useful for PCOD, diabetes and heart diseases, BP, acidity, weak joints, constipation, IBS. Have ghee and jaggery post-lunch or dinner if you suffer from PMS, fatigue or low Hb levels.
 
 
  Rethink, reform and regulate the use of gadgets in your life. The human head is heavy and we have spent months as babies learning to stabilise it. In a neutral position, ears above the shoulders, the head weighs about 5-6 kg. But with just a 15-degree tilt downwards, it weighs more than double. What do you think this is doing to your back, shoulders and even the brain?
 
 
  So cut down on gadgets. No gadgets while eating food. Start doing this at one meal a day and over the next 10 weeks, build it to all 3 main meals per day.
 
  No gadget for 30 mins before bed. Don’t delay bedtime, just keep the phone away, switch off your TV and read a book (not on kindle or iPad).
 
  The correct way is to lift the phone at eye level and not tilt the neck down. One of the good effects of this will be limiting your phone usage to only the relevant and important issues.
 
 
 The Fitness Project 2018 (excerpts only from Week 1-3), Rujuta  , fitness expert.
 
 Most of us want to sport flatter abs and have narrower waists, but it’s impossible with all that slouching and “technology posture” as it is called. The technology posture is much more harmful for people with diabetes, heart conditions and other hormonal issues like PCOD and thyroid.
 
 
