HUBBALLI: Officials are on alert 24x7 about illegal transportation of   over Rs 50,000 in the wake of the  . They are seizing cash ranging from Rs 10,000 to Rs 50,000 from people if they do not carry proper documentation for the money

 However, political workers and commoners, who need to carry heavy amounts of cash, have found public transport as a means to circumvent the officials. Officials currently are just checking private vehicles like cars and vans.
 
 Karnataka Chamber of Commerce and Industry former president Vasant Ladwa told TOI that usually Wednesdays and Sundays are the days of loan recovery for small and middle scale traders. 
 
 “Most traders or their employees go to cities like Haveri, Gadag and Bagalkot by private vehicles to ensure safety of the collected amount. Wholesalers issue bills and update them online under GST Act. But they provide material to retailers on credit. If wholesalers collect Rs 20,000 from three retailers, it will cross the prescribed cash limit. Officials are not accepting copies of receipts or bills. So, most businessmen are relying on buses and trains to transport cash,” he said.
 
 Vijay Manakwad, a medical representative, said that he tours to various places from Hubballi on a daily basis. “Many times, I bring cash of over Rs 1 lakh. However, to avoid action of   officials, I prefer to travel by trains and buses. We are obligated to carry cash as many medical shop owners are not yet sensitized about non-cash transactions,” he said.
 
 Meanwhile, workers of political parties are also carrying heavy cash in buses and trains. “During the 2013 elections, officials had focused on buses only after the date of filing of nomination was over. Suspecting the same, we are easily carrying cash by public transport,” said a district level office bearer of a political party.
 
 Some ticket examiners of South Western Railway told TOI that some passengers were carrying currency by train. “We are clueless about what to do if we find such heavy cash being transported in  ,” said a TTE.
 
 NWKRTC managing director Pandurang Naik said that enforcing the model code of conduct was being handled completely by the deputy commissioner and that he could not comment on the issue.
 
 
