JAIPUR: In an election year, the state government is expected to provide a relief package for priests and residents who are residing on ‘mandir mafia’ land for past several years.

 
 In the state, thousands of residents are living on, which is registered as, ‘mandir mafia’ land in revenue records across all 33 districts. The urban development minister,  , after a meeting with chief minister assured soon a relief package would be announced for people residing on that land.
 
 During the princely state period, the land was granted to priests and other people for temples and several bigahs continues to exist in the revenue records. However, these residents were devoid of proprietary rights after a high court decision in year 2015.
 
 Following this, the state government had constituted a committee to provide relief to these people. It was informed that the report was submitted by the committee members and soon announcement of the package will be made after examination.
 
 The package has been drafted as per the survey conducted by the teams in which occupancy on ‘mandir mafia’ land was decided. Apart, from the compensation, the state government is also deciding to provide conditional rights to the owners. This would support the owners to maintain the temples after giving the land on lease.
 
 Other than this, to regularise colonies developed on land of ‘mandir mafia’ in Prithvi   (PRN) scheme, the   (UDH) department will also sought a legal opinion from advocate general (AG).
 
 There are more than 100 colonies in PRN scheme which are developed on this land. “The Supreme Court has issued many orders regarding regularisation of colonies on ‘mandir mafia’ land. A proposal has been forwarded to AG for seeking legal opinion after examining all the orders,” said an official source.
 
 After facing several technical problems, the   recently shot a letter to the state government seeking directions to regularise illegally developed colonies. “We were facing major issue for the land. If AG’s report gives a nod to regularise these colonies, it would pave a way for 900 other colonies developed on ‘mandir mafia’ land in the state capital,” added official.
 
 
