Bhopal: A day before the Kolaras and Mungaoli bypolls, the Election Commission of India (ECI) issued a notice to chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, advising him to be “more careful while making public speeches during model code of conduct”, and censured minister Yashodhara Raje Scindia for intimidation of voters.

 Bypoll-eve was action packed, with the state electoral office rejecting BJP’s claim that Congress candidate in Mungaoli, Brijendra Singh Yadav, was distributing money to voters. Two BJP MLAs — Shailendra Jain and Narayan Singh Kushwaha — were arrested for overstaying beyond campaign hours and asked to leave the constituencies. And the EC removed TI of Indaar police station, Suresh Sharma, from election duty in Kolaras after Congress complained against the lathi-charge in which canbdidate Mahendra Singh Yadav was injured on Thursday evening. 
 
 Chief electoral officer (CEO) Salina Singh said, “Prompt and proactive action is being taken to ensure free and fair polls. Apart from quick action on complaints, around Rs 22 lakh cash and liquor worth Rs 10 lakh have been seized from both constituencies.”
 
 BJP was furious when the state electoral office gave the clean chit to Brijendra Singh Yadav, and said it would complain to chief election commissioner O P Rawat. The ruling party had shared a photo on Thursday, alleging that it showed Yadav bowing to take an elderly woman;s blessings while an aide gave her money. The report of the Ashok Nagar district election officer on Friday said Yadav “touched the woman’s feet and gave her Rs 5-10 as part of a religious belief”. It’s said that if you see a woman carrying a pitcher of water, it brings good omen to seek her blessings and give her a small amount of money.
 
 The ruling party took serious objection to CEO Salina Singh’s remarks that the photo of Yadav shared by BJP does not indicate any bait. “In normal course, the matter should have been investigated and action taken against Yadav. But the very next day, CEO Salina Singh jumped to the conclusion that the photo could not establish the Congress leader was luring a voter,” said BJP state general secretary Ajay Pratap Singh. 
 
 BJP demanded an investigation and insists the “evidence” be verified before reaching any conclusion. “Congress worker Chandrapal Bais, who accompanied Brijendra Singh Yadav, and distributed money to voters had in his statement admitted that he gave money to the woman carrying a pot as a mark of ‘good omen’. How could CEO deny this outright?” said BJP state spokesperson Rajnish Agrawal.
 
 BJP Rajya Sabha member Prabhat Jha has also demanded Congress candidate Yadav be disqualified. “There is evidence of Congress leaders distributing money and action should be taken immediately. Jyotiraditya Scindia’s candidate was trapped while distributing money to voters. I had informed central observer Rajesh Kumar. Election commission should disqualify Yadav,” said Jha. Sources said ECI will take the final call as the office of CEO will now forward it to Delhi. 
 
 The EC took exception to a speech made by CM Chouhan in Mungaoli on Feb 16 in which he said: “Brothers, voting is on 24th and counting on 28th, when mode code of conduct will end. Bai Sahab will become….And I will open the safe.” Congress had filed a complaint on February 17, and on Friday the EC advised Chouhan to be “more careful while making public speeches during the period of model code of conduct”. 
 
 On Yashodhara Raje Scindia, EC said: “On consideration of the part of the speech referred to in the complaint... the commission is satisfied that the statements amount to intimidation of voters in as much as there is a clear element of threat to electors that if they vote on the “hand” symbol they may be denied of benefits of certain government schemes. The Election Commission censures you.” ECI also issued a notice to BJP minister Maya Singh and sought her reply after Congress alleged that she promised voters in Anchal village “pucca house, old age pension and everything” if they voted for BJP.
 
 On Friday afternoon, the Election Commission removed TI of Indaar police station, Suresh Sharma, from election duty in Kolaras. The Congress candidate, Mahendra Singh Yadav, was left bloodied in a lathicharge on Thursday evening. Congress had complained to both the state election office and ECI.
 
 In New Delhi, a Congress delegation — including Kamal Nath, Suresh Pachauri, Jyotiraditya Scindia and Kantilal Bhuria — walked into the ECI office on Thursday night and demanded action against police. “We have said that the police administration should be removed. Congress party wants peaceful polls whereas the BJP wants violence. They now know that defeat is imminent so their new strategy is that their candidates for Mungaoli and Kolaras should not lose by huge margins. That is why all this violence,” Kamal Nath said, adding: “The ECI has assured us that they will call for a report and take action.”
 
 In Bhopal also, a delegation of state Congress went to the EC office with a complaint against police not registering an FIR against BJP MLA Narendra Singh Kushwah, alleging that he was “caught with money”. “Even after Kushwah was caught red-handed, police released him,” Dhanopia said. At Indaar police station in Kolaras, a case of rioting and arson has been registered against 47 unknown persons. BJP candidate Devendra Jain Patte-Wala also registered a case against two persons for vandalising and breaking vehicles.
 
 Bhopal: ​On the eve of voting in Mungaoli and Kolaras, both parties approached the Election Commission for action against each other on Friday even as aftershocks of the previous evening’s violence kept the administration on its toes. ​
 
 ​A delegation of BJP leaders ​approached EC, opposing an FIR against BJP MLAs in Kolaras and Mungaoli. BJP leaders said that the MLAs were not violating election code of conduct and demanded action against Kolaras Congress candidate Mahendra Yadav for “instigating violence and attacking BJP MLA from Bhind, Narendra Singh Kushwaha”.
 
 “MLA Kushwaha was detained and attacked by Congress workers while returning to Bhind after campaign came to an end on Thursday. Police also held him for ​several hours but could not find any objectionable material in his vehicle. A police complain​t has been filed in the regard,” said ​BJP state general secretary Ajay Pratap Singh.
 
 On Thursday night, police detained Kushwaha in Kolaras, and also booked Sagar MLA Shailendra Jain for allegedly campaigning in Mungaoli after canvassing ended at 5pm on Thursday. Both MLAs were released on bail on Friday. BJP alleges that police high-handedness led to violence in Kolaras. 
 
 Opposing action against BJP leaders, Singh said Jain was returning home after meeting his relatives in Mungaoli. However, Congress made it an issue and filed complaint against him. MLA Kushwaha also opposed the police action against him, alleging it was a Congress leader who detained and attacked him. They also ransacked his vehicle, he alleged.
 
 “Police detained me when I was on Shivpuri highway, returning to Bhind, on Thursday evening. Congress candidate from Kolaras, Mahendra Yadav, and his supporters arrived and attacked me, damaging my vehicle. There was nothing objectionable found in the vehicle but I was arrested. I condemn police high-handedness at the instance of local Congress leaders,” Kushwaha told reporters at a press briefing in Bhind on Friday afternoon.
 
 With both Congress and BJP have demanded CCTV monitoring of the poll process on February 24.
 
 
