GURUGRAM: In the backdrop of glitzy buildings of the city’s biggest commercial hub, Cyber City, lies a cluster of 60 sq yard plots in  . Originally meant for the economically weaker section (EWS), these plots in the U, S and V blocks now house four and five-storey buildings that are home to many people, none of whom can be classified as poor.

 TOI did a recce earlier this month and found that as many as 2,000 EWS plots, of a total 3100, have constructions up to four and five-storey though owners are only permitted to construct a basement and up to two-and-a-half floors. And most of these buildings have been converted into illegal paying guest accommodations.
 
 Those who were the first settlers said DLF 3 used to be one of the posh colonies in the city. “When we moved to DLF 3 in 1999, we used to have access to two hours of water supply twice a day and uninterrupted power supply. Now, we get 15 minutes of water supply daily and power cuts are also frequent. It is all because the population has increased manyfold in the past five to six years,” said Kushal Kumar, a resident.
 
 Some residents said, many of these 60 sq yard plots are still under construction and dust is rising every day, making it difficult for them to live in the area. Sushant Dayal, a resident, said, “We face dust pollution day and night. Also, construction material is lying in open, making the situation worse. I think I’ve no option but to move out of this area.”
 
 However, many people are forced to put up with the polluted surroundings. “There are no EWS people living in these 60 sq yard plots. The plots here are owned by the villagers. They are making good money by renting out each floor to two to three working professionals. On an average, a plot owner is earning rent of more than Rs. 70,000 to Rs 1 lakh every month. On the other hand, residents who bought properties here are made to suffer,” said a resident of   houses, who did not wish to be named.
 
 Though the plots were first bought by people from EWS, they were sold off when plot owners got 10 times more money than they had invested. Now, most of the buildings have been converted into paying guest and inhabited by people, working in the Cyber City.
 
 Many alleged all this is happening in connivance with the authorities. “Not just pollution and shortage of water and power, unauthorised constructions are threat to life and property. If a high density earthquake hits the area, the multi-storied buildings will collapse, leading to major loss of life and property,” said Sunita Rathi, another resident.
 
 Residential Welfare Association (RWA) of   also said that it has time and again asked the authorities to take the required action. “It is a never-ending issue in DLF 3. We have been writing to the town and country planning department and the enforcement wing of Huda. However, no action has been taken yet,” said Sudhir Kapoor, president of DLF City RWA.
 
 When contacted, senior town planner of Municipal Corporation of Gurugram (MCG) Sudhir Chauhan said, “We’ll impose penalty on all under-construction houses if they’re found to be violating any dust pollution norms. We’ll carry out an inspection and take strict action against the offenders.”
 
 An official of the town and country planning department, on the other hand, assured that a sealing drive will be carried out soon. “Unauthorised construction is definitely a big issue in DLF 3. A disaster is waiting to happen. We have served notices to the offenders many a time, but the notices were not received. We are in a process to discuss the issue with higher authorities as well and will soon carry out a major sealing drive, if required,” he said.
 
 
