NEW DELHI: Notwithstanding the attempt to stitch together an opposition unity outside of Parliament, the Left parties have, for now, decided to demand that the draft Muslim Women (Protection of Rights on Marriage) Bill, 2017 be sent to a Parliamentary Select Committee for further scrutiny.

 The Left’s stand on the   issue comes at a time when   appears to be backpedalling on its attempts to stop the bill from being enacted. Speaking to TOI, member of CPM’s political bureau,   said, “The government is using a   judgment to criminalise what is basically a civil dispute. While all this is done in the name of women empowerment, the government has not even allowed Muslim women and the organisations that represent them, to make their points of view known.”
 
 Referring to the draft bill as a “deeply flawed” document, the   leader also said said that even though the government cited countries where Triple Talaq is banned to back their own case, they did so only partially, not looking at the civil remedies that could have been thought of. “In both Pakistan and  , for instance, a provision for imprisonment exists, but it is only for the violation of certain procedures in rules of divorce,” Karat said.
 
 Left leaders also said that while many Muslim women organisations have sought the codification of the law, others have sought an amendment to the Dissolution of Muslim Marriages Act, 1939. The government has incorporated none of these in the draft legislation.
 
 Speaking to TOI, CPI national secretary D Raja said, “Because of all these issues, the Left will press for the Bill to be sent to the select committee. Any decision on whether the existing penal provisions should be diluted can be considered separately. For now, we maintain that a legislation this significant needs more deliberations and consultations.”
 
 The Left on Monday also objected to the alleged ‘somersault’ on the Triple Talaq issue by the  . “These were the people who were mobilising Muslims in Bengal against the Supreme Court verdict that set aside Talaq-e-Biddat. Now, when the government uses that SC judgment to criminalise what is a civil dispute, they have done an opportunistic somersault, maintaining a stoic silence on issue in Parliament.”
 
