Girly and Sreekumar had oodles of fun at each other’s expense eons ago. But it's been long since Mollywood got to see the spunky couple together on screen. 

 Nadia Moidu, who played the much-remembered Girly in Nokketha Doorathu Kannum Nattu, is teaming up with   yet again for the upcoming film  . In her Thalassery Malayalam, flavoured with a Mumbai twist, Nadia tells us about working in the new project and also takes us down memory lane, about her brief yet memorable first innings in Malayalam.
 
 
 
 Very much! At first, we were planning to use another song for that scene, but then decided, why not Aayiram Kannumai? It’s been a popular song, especially in the Christian community, ever since. We felt it might be nostalgic to relive that song. Hopefully it strikes a chord with the audience.
 
 
 
 Molly Kutty is from Kanjirappally, and she plays Lalettan’s wife in the film. Getting her accent right took me some hard work. While mine is an important character, Neerali is an out-and-out Lalettan film. Besides me, Parvathii, Dileesh Pothan and Suraj Venjaramoodu also play important roles in the film. At the moment, that’s all I can reveal about the role.
 
 
 
 
 Yes, we are working together after a gap of 34 years. When I was doing Nokketha Doorathu Kannum Nattu with Mohanlal I was very new to this industry. My main comfort factor was director Fazil as we have known him and his family for years. Although Lalettan was fairly new then, he gave a stupendous performance that highlighted the iconic kannadi scene. Lalettan was extremely co-operative even then, considering the number of lines I had to memorise and the fact that I wasn’t very fluent in Malayalam. Back then, the only time we interacted was when we did our scenes together — because most of my time off camera on the set was spent memorising lines (laughs). I was surrounded by actors with great acting prowess. Besides Lalettan, Padmini aunty, Thilakan uncle, Ummer uncle and Nedumudi Venu sir were extremely accommodating and encouraging. This time too, Lalettan was very cordial and expressed appreciation about a few scenes I had shot earlier. He doesn’t bring star power into his work, so that's great. 
 
 
 
 
 Neerali offered me a unique experience. The shoot was scheduled in Mumbai and after all these years that I have worked in films, going back to my home after a long day’s shoot was a novelty! Also, I had the opportunity to bring a few of my friends to the set who got to see that a lot of hard work goes into the making of a film. It’s not as glamorous as one would presume and it also made them realise that I do have my share of fans (laughs). The team of Neerali also played a part in making it memorable. For instance, the director  , whom I had never worked with, was extremely patient, calm and cooperative. So was Santosh Thundiyil, the cinematographer, the script writer Saju Thomas, and the crew in general, who were all very professional and respected each others’ time and were clear about their respective roles.
 
 
 
 
 From the beginning I have been very selective and it continues. I do get offered a handful of roles but not many excite me. There are many factors to accepting a film. The director and the script primarily and my contribution to the film. Not a lot of characters are written, unfortunately, for women of my age. Having said that, the audience has evolved over time and are ready to accept change. In Hollywood, there are characters that are written for women my age, with a lot of personality dimensions brought into them. 
 
 But sadly, those aspects are not tapped here as much, may be because of cultural differences. I personally feel that women of my age are more content and settled, having completed most of their responsibilities. They are looking to pursue their dreams and finally allocating some time to themselves. It's a beautiful age, but we are yet to touch upon those aspects in film-making.
 
 
 
 
 Yes, I have always had friends in the industry but since I was abroad, it was hard to keep in touch regularly. Of course, technology has progressed a lot in the last 30 years. I am part of the 80s actors’ reunion team and whenever I come to South for a shoot, I make it a point to catch up with friends.
 
 
 
 
 Very much. And what surprises me the most is when the younger generation asks me about the film. But I guess it's all thanks to television, which keeps playing these films. The very special thing about NDKN is that it was not just a film, but an “experience”. As actors, you can get very challenging roles, but to be able to portray a character that captures people’s hearts is indeed a blessing. Girly was a beautifully written character, much ahead of its time, and I was extremely privileged to get the role especially as my first film.
 
 
 
 
 First of all, I think I have been blessed with good genes. I have a regular exercise regime. I am also surrounded by some wonderful loving people, may it be family or friends, who have a very positive and practical approach towards life which helps me stay grounded. I have lived my life mostly on my own terms, being compassionate and understanding. That has helped me to stay content and happy. 
 
