Mumbai: In a relief to six  , the   on Thursday stayed notices issued by the income tax (I-T) department to show cause why their registration under section 12A of the   should not be cancelled. 

 Issuing the interim stay, a bench comprising justices M S Sanklecha and S K Shinde observed that the notices appear prima facie to be “without jurisdiction” as contended by Tata Trusts counsel Darius Khambata. The HC said in its order, “I-T department is restrained from acting on show-cause notices issued to Tata Trusts.”
 
 The I-T department had alleged “non-compliance” with rules that govern use of  . Any such cancellation would render withdrawal of I-T exemptions to the trusts. The trusts, through its trustees including  , had petitioned the high court against commissioner of income tax and 17 others to quash the notices for having been issued “without jurisdiction” and since the registration itself was surrendered in 2015.
 
 The law allows trusts to register under the I-T Act, which then entitles them to claim tax exemption on their incomes. The registration is voluntary. The court directed the principal commissioner-income tax to file a reply on the issue of jurisdiction by June 15. The affidavit will have to explain whether issuance of such a show-cause notice was by an officer having correct jurisdiction. 
 
 At an almost hour-long hearing where additional solicitor general Anil Singh with Abhay Ahuja for the department sought to oppose grant of any relief to the trusts, Khambata submitted that show-cause notices were “an abuse of power” as they were issued not only without jurisdiction but also after the six public charitable trusts are no longer registered under the section since they had themselves surrendered it in 2015. 
 
 Khambata said the I-T department “suddenly came to life and issued fresh notice in March 2018” because in June 2016 a new amendment to the law brought in a provision called section 115TD. This section entitles the department to collect a one-time tax at 30% of the fair market value of assets of a trust, the registration of which is cancelled. He said since the trusts “have certain holdings” that would have entitled withdrawal of registration, “that is why suddenly the I-T department is interested in showing that the trusts are still registered”.
 
 Any withdrawal after section 115TD could mean a substantial   for the trusts.
 
 Singh read out certain letters which the Tata Trusts had sent in response to a show-cause notice issued earlier to try and point out that the jurisdiction issue raised by the trusts should not entitle them to any relief against the notices.
 
 The trusts —  ,  ,  ,   and   — continue to be registered with the charity commissioner. They continue to carry out charitable activities, said Dinesh Kanabar, another Tata lawyer, later. 
 
 The HC order is significant as justice Sanklecha observed that they are “usually slow in interfering with show-cause notices”, even before a reply is filed. But the HC, after hearing both counsels, observed that “not all commissioners can issue such show-cause notices”. The HC also said that the board circular cited by Singh itself suggests that commissioner (exemptions) can, but not a general commissioner. 
 
 The issue, said the Tata counsel, was that the notices were issued by a commissioner lacking jurisdiction. Besides, after surrendering the registration in 2015, the assessment of these trusts was transferred to general assessment, a point which weighed with the bench.
 
 Singh said the I-T department’s case is that the registration still continues as there is no provision for “surrender”. He said, “The trusts say that since they had sent a letter to say they are surrendering their registration, it stands cancelled…we never accepted it…till there is cancellation, registration will continue.”
 
 At one point, when Singh read from the department’s documents on jurisdiction, justice Sanklecha said, “The reason we are interfering is because it is contrary to what you read out. Else as he (Khambata) pointed out, every person in commissioner’s office will issue notices.” Section 120 of the I-T Act carves out jurisdiction of officers. “Let the commissioner say that the board circular is not binding on him,” said the bench.
 
 
