BHOPAL: A bumper tomato crop in   and ban on its export to Pakistan have sent prices plummeting in the state, putting farmers on the edge of a fresh crisis.

 The government, which is already scrambling to tackle the massive crop damage from unseasonal hailstorms, now faces a challenge that is not covered by chief minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan’s recent assurances to farmers.
 
  
  
 
 With tomato selling for a mere Rs 2-3/kg at many places, many farmers are forced to let their crop rot in the fields since the price doesn’t even cover the cost of plucking and transportation. The administration, however, feels it’s not at crisis level because tomato is a multipleharvest crop.
 
 Mahendra Singh, the biggest tomato farmer in Kolaras of Shivpuri — one of the three districts that produce the crop — said: “A crate carrying about 25-30kg of tomato is being sold for Rs 60 to Rs 75. This is too little. The cost of growing the crop is about Rs 3.5/kg per hectare of land, which is why farmers in Shivpuri, where the best quality tomatoes are produced, are incurring huge losses.” Kolaras has assembly bypoll on February 24.
 
 Earlier,10,000-oddcrates of tomato used to be sent to Pakistan, said Singh. “But the export has been stopped. Now we are sending only to Nepal, and that too only about 5% of what used to be sold in the past. The surplus tomato is now being sold at a throw away prices,” he added.
 
 Another big tomato grower, B P Dhakad of Ratlam, told TOI, “At the moment, tomato is being sold in Pakistan at Rs 100-150 because the Centre has stopped export. The shelf life of our tomato is 3 to 4 days and in this period the yield can be sent to Pakistan only, a country with huge consumption of the vegetable.”
 
 There are reports from Khargone and Badwani of farmers destroying their yield in the farms itself. Things may worsen in other parts of the state, said Shivpuri’s  .
 
 Horticulture director Satyanand doesn’t agree. “Tomato is a multipleplucking crop and farmers sometime sell their yield at Rs 40 a kg. Had they been incurring losses, they would have stopped cultivating tomato,” he said.
 
 About government’s plan to establish food processing units to utilise the yield, he said, “We are still hopeful. But it is a risky business. Investors are scared that farmers may shift to other crops.   are yield specific. A plant installed for tomato cannot process any other vegetable.”
 
 
