PUNE: Imagine not having to brave the maddening traffic on Laxmi   and yet being able to step into your favourite shop and take your pick from the several articles on display — all from the comfort of your home. What’s more, you can do a spot of window shopping too!

 Hit by steep drop in business due to the popularity of e-tailers and shopping malls, traders at the 200-year-old   market have decided to hitch their wagons to e-commerce.
 
 However, their plan to enter the online space is not just limited to listing the shops and available products. Members of Laxmi Road Traders Association have joined hands to provide customers a virtual shopping experience in real time.
 
 
  
 
 “We are working on creating a virtual model of Laxmi Road --- from City Post Chowk (Moolchand Chowk) to   ( ). All shops along this entire stretch will be visible online. An online shopper will be able to virtually enter a store to see product portfolio and specialties. Photographs of the store will also be uploaded so as to provide a real-time shopping experience. Customers can browse through the products and designs and then proceed with the purchase,” said Rahul  , president of Laxmi Road Traders Association.
 
 The first phase of the project, to be launched in three months, will provide information about the market, history of stores and specialties as well as avirtual tour.
 
 “We want all 200 shops on the stretch to make their presence online. Around 50-60 traders have already agreed to sell online. Online shopping facility will be launched in the second phase. We will hold a meeting in the next fortnight to share concrete plans for the portal and obtain a final approval from traders,” Bora said.
 
 According to him, the virtual tour option will attract more customers who choose to shop on Laxmi Road only on occasions. He further added that if the plan to physically revamp Laxmi Road goes through, the combination of online and offline business will benefit traders.
 
 “The portal will provide information to customers about Laxmi Road and also showcase new features like food arena, parking spaces and others. This will attract more casual shoppers to Laxmi Road,” he said.
 
 Three IT professionals are currently working on designing the portal.
 
