CHANDIGARH: The   government has decided to set up a committee to resolve issues relating to acquisition of land for setting up military facilities in the state and another to address infrastructural and garbage dumping problems around Air Force station, Chandigarh.

 These decisions were taken during a liaison meeting between the civil and military administration on Wednesday at the Western Command headquarters in Chandimandir.
 
 The meeting was co-chaired by Punjab chief minister   and Lieutenant General Surinder Singh,   Commander, Western Command. Senior military officers from the Western Command and civilian officers of the state government also attended the conference.
 
 The Army Commander and the CM also suggested formation of a joint committee of mid-level officers to meet on a regular basis, instead of once a year, to resolve all issues relating to land acquisition or exchange.
 
 During the meeting, it was also proposed that the committee to look into Chandigarh airport problems would be headed by secretary,   and would also have a representative of the  .
 
 The meeting discussed problems relating to acquisition of land for various facilities for the armed forces, development of access roads and railways crossings at strategic places, bird menace arising out of dumping of garbage around Air Force stations, illegal mining and storage around vital installations.
 
 One of the key demands of the military discussed at the meeting was for acquisition of 388 acres, 5 kanal (2,500 sq yards) and 13 marla (325 sq yards) land to strengthen security around the Air Force station,  , had been pending due to delay in release of funds to the PWD for construction of a new road post acquisition. The issue of acquisition of 5 bighas and 9 biswas (over 1 acre) land in Bhabat village, for passage between Air Force stations at Chandigarh and Highgrounds, was also under consideration and the process would be initiated once the government approval comes, the meeting was further apprised.
 
 The armed forces also expressed concern over drainage connectivity for Air Force station Chandigarh, with the airport getting flooded quite frequently during monsoons. The authorities in   and   had already initiated work to ensure regular cleaning of the drains as well as removal of illegal encroachments that had led to blockage of drains.
 
 On the issue of land at Bir Gugiana village in the Faridkot district, which is notified with the Army authorities for training and manoeuvre activities up to July 2020, the Punjab CM agreed to extend the notification for another 10 years, till 2030 and assured the meeting that the extension would be granted at least a year before the current notification is scheduled to expire. The Faridkot deputy commissioner (DC) has, meanwhile, been directed to expeditiously decide the court case pending in the matter, as per the provisions of the law.
 
 
