KOLKATA: Two back-to-back snatchings in and around EM Bypass and its connectors — both at important locations (  and Ajoy Nagar crossing) — despite increased patrolling have led Lalbazar to sit up and take note of the insecurity local residents are currently dealing with.
 
  
 While Kasba police was quick to nab two snatchers within three hours of the crime,   police, too, arrested two on Tuesday, less than 48 hours after the incident.
 
 Both — the   and the East division — have decided to increase surveillance on history sheeters and carry out surprise nakas and on-road policing on major roads to ensure there isn’t a repeat.
 
 The latest snatching was reported from near Garden High School around 12.15am on Tuesday. The victim, private firm employee Anish Kumar Singh(28), was returning from Acropolis to his rented flat at Naskarhat after a late dinner. “Suddenly, two persons came from behind and tugged at my collar. I immediately realized that they were trying to snatch my chain. When I resisted, they physically assaulted me and tried to snatch my gold chain, weighing 14gm. By the time they were successful, my shirt was torn and I was hurt. I called up police from the spot,” said Singh.
 
 
 “He provided a description of the accused. One of them has a problem in one of his legs. We identified him as Uttam Shaw alias Ucche. He was nabbed from near DPS School by 3.15am. We recovered the chain and nabbed his associate Mritunjoy Mishra,” said an officer from Kasba PS. DC (south Suburban)   added that the arrests were ensured keeping in mind both the intensity and place of crime.
 
 
 The incident comes 48 hours after the gold chain of a 40-year-old Marathon runner, who was busy practicing on EM Bypass on Sunday morning, was snatched by two bike-borne men. On Tuesday, the cops arrested Soumitra Sen (24) and Rajib Poddar (19), both residents of Garia. “The accused had been involved in a series of snatching over the weekend. They had even stolen two bikes. The one used to commit the crime was stolen from Anandapur area. The second bike was recovered from a no-parking zone in Kalighat,” said joint CP (crime)  .
 
 
 According to residents of the area, police say the same thing and give the same advice everytime a snatching is reported. “They tell us that the area is connected to crime-prone Rajpur-Sonarpur-Baruipur area and these snatchers can flee there owing to an excellent road network. With the real estate boom in the area, it’s not possible for them to check the background of everyone involved in the projects, cops claim. Finally, they say unless neighbours develop a resistance system on their own, criminals will thrive,” claimed marketing executive Sayan Banerjee, who live at  .
 
 
 “The pattern shows a common feature: The target’s proximity to thoroughfares that connect directly to EM Bypass. We need to guard these entries and exits,” said an officer.
 
