AHMEDABAD/VADODARA: Their mood is key to making your journey happy! Yes, if the driver is in a good frame of mind, the journey is likely to be safe and secure for the passengers. After driving home this fact, the challenge for experts participating in a seminar was to suggest ways to keep the bus or train drivers happy!

 The necessity to explore ways to keep bus drivers and train pilots stress-free was felt when experts pointed out that the men behind the wheels make critical decisions – decisions that make or mar our journeys. 
 
 This concept is gaining ground with the western railway and the state road transport service for the simple reason that the drivers play a crucial role in transporting the most precious of cargo — humans. Both these mass transport departments are now implementing a unique outreach programme for families of train pilots and   drivers to ensure “happier”, “stress free” environment back home.
 
 The   (GSRTC) officials have instructed its drivers to always carry the photographs of their family along with them, especially when they are seated behind the steering of the passenger bus.
 
 GSRTC vice-chairman & managing director,   said, “While driving, we have come across slogans asking us to drive safe as family is waiting for us back home. Taking cue from this, we have instructed the drivers to always carry a photograph of their family members in the pocket so that whenever they open it, they are reminded of them and hence they drive safely.”
 
 In two years, 600 cases of accidents involving GSRTC buses have been reported. The GSRTC has also asked the drivers not to use mobile phones while driving. Officials with the Ahmedabad depot said that they have asked the drivers to replace posters of God in the cabin with that of their family members, especially kids. 
 
 The railways on the other hand, has asked the families of the locomotive drivers to give them a positive and happy environment at homes when they leave for the duty. A seminar for the families of loco pilots was organized recently by Vadodara railway division of the western railway to sensitise them on keeping the pilots happy during their non-working hours at home.
 
 “The motive of this seminar was to ensure that loco pilots get conducive environment at their homes and remain tension free as lives of a large number of passengers are dependent on them,” said  , PRO of Vadodara railway division, adding that the seminar was held at   for all the family members of the loco pilots.
 
 Meena has also scripted a film on the subject. The Palghat railway division of the southern railway will be soon releasing the film which highlights how loco pilots dedicate their entire life towards their duties.
 
 
