KOLKATA: It has been 14 years since   took up the cudgels for the cause of active euthanasia. Back in 2004, when she started teaching End of Life Care at   Kharagpur’s humanities and social sciences department, euthanasia was not an oft-repeated subject and those supporting the concept were even rare. The   order for passive euthanasia came as a welcome move to Chopra Chatterjee, though it fell short of her expectations as she had been advocating for active euthanasia.

 “The way a state looks at dying shows the way it looks at living. This is a quantum leap, I must say,” she said from the IIT campus.   has over the years led batches of researchers in finding out how the greying population of India is coping with the idea of death. Most of had discussed euthanasia and why it should be an option for the terminally ill. “At a stage, where doctors give a verdict that a patient’s condition cannot be reversed and his/her pain will progressively increase, he should have the option of taking up euthanasia,” Chopra Chatterjee said, adding the move would give the patient a choice to exit the world with dignity.
 
 Chopra Chatterjee’s books such as, Death and Dying in India: End of Life Care of the Elderly, Discourses on Ageing and Dying, Health, Illness and Medicine, Living with Grief, Multiple voices and Stories: Narratives of Health and Illness, speak in favour of euthanasia and why it is a necessity for the elderly. She has cited statistics to show healthcare in India is at a rudimentary level and lacks long-term care structures for the old and terminally ill, unlike that in the West. “We have not structured our healthcare to accommodate the needs of the huge greying population. We should keep that in mind while debating euthanasia,” she said.
 
 In the course of her research, Chopra-Chatterjee came across cases, where the elderly suffered a pathetic death, lying in pain with minimal palliative treatment. She seemed keen on euthanasia for them. “There are people who debate in favour of palliative care versus euthanasia, but they need to understand we have a poorly developed palliative care structure when we look at it as an alternative. The kind of care structure that you need for a protracted dying process is just not there,” she said.
 
 She also felt that the decision for euthanasia should be taken by a patient or his/her caregivers instead of the current practice of doctors playing a major role. “I am a bit wary of the transparency in the decision-making process and that should not be compromised with,” Chopra Chatterjee said.
 
