JAIPUR: About 70 villagers of   and Picchari in Kothputli tehsil of Jaipur district sat in dharna on Tuesday outside the collectorate to force authorities to take cognizance of the damage that illegal mining for what is locally called ‘cheza pathar’ – stone that is ground and used in construction – is causing to their homes, cattle and health.

 In a memorandum that villagers had got ready to submit to the collector, they explained that illegal “deep hole” drilling very close to human habitation was causing immense distress. Holes about 60 feet deep are dug with machines and explosives are lowered into these bores – the vibrations caused as they explode leave cracks on walls, and residents feel like they are experiencing an earthquake. The air is dense with dust. The memorandum comes with a list of 47 people from Kothputli tehsil suspected to be patients of silicosis – nine of these are from Picchari and Shuklawas.
 
 Ricch Pal of Shuklawas, who was at the dharna, told TOI, “We have been attempting to raise the matter for over 10 years now. There are about 700 families in these two villages. The school, local hospital, gau shala – they are all less than 100 metres from the mines. (Under the law, mining of this kind cannot happen within 300 metres of an inhabited area.) The productivity of our land is gone, with all the chemicals being bored in. Our water sources are polluted. Our young people are falling sick with allergies and silicosis. And local authorities pay us no heed. That is why we decided to bring the matter to the district collectorate.”
 
 Villagers said environment activist and   leader   visited the spot in 2013; in 2016, after   of the   visited, local authorities agreed to a list of 11 demands. “None of those has been met. When our protests swell, the authorities clamp down on illegal activity for about two months. After that, all the mining starts all over again,” says Sheesh Ram Rawat of Picchari.
 
 In their memorandum, the villagers have also written that the government must erect boundaries around the mines, so that cows from the gau shala or stray animals do not fall into the large trenches that the miners have created. “The temple now sits close to a mine. So close, that if we have heavy rain this year and any of the mined earth caves in, our temple too will be washed away,” says Rawat.
 
 Activist Kailash Meena said, “These people are demanding small things – clean air, water that is fit to drink. Will the government refuse even that?”
 
 
