NEW DELHI: A 30-year-old   smothered two of her   — Nandini (6) and Akanksha (6 months) — at her house in Zakhira in west Delhi’s  . Police sent her to  , Shahdara on Thursday on the suspicion of   and she will be arrested after getting treatment. Her husband has alleged that she killed her daughter under the influence of  .

 Police got a call about the incident on Tuesday morning. When a team reached there, the mother, Suman, started to shout at the cops to stop them from entering the house. When the bodies of the girls were taken to a hospital, doctors said that the deaths were unnatural. Their bodies were shifted to Deen Dayal Upadhyay hospital and handed over to the family members after autopsy.
 
 Suman’s behaviour was unpredictable throughout the investigations. She would seem shocked one moment and act chirpy the next as if nothing has happened. Cops waited and gave the family time to grieve before asking the woman to narrate how she had found her daughters lying dead on the floor. Finding discrepancies in her statement, she was soon found guilty of killing her daughters.
 
 The father of the girls said that Suman had been acting strangely for the past fortnight. She had even started visiting a tantric and may have killed the girls under the influence of black magic. “Her reaction to many situations had scared me as well. She had even slapped me several times,” a cop quoted the man as saying.
 
 The accused woman works as a domestic help, while her husband is a daily wage labourer. They have a third daughter, Arpita (3), who was sleeping next to her father when the other two were smothered. Police said when Suman’s husband left for work that morning, he patted his daughters thinking they were sleeping little realising that they were dead.
 
 The couple had rented the house 11 months ago, but rarely interacted with their neighbours. Speaking to TOI, the couple’s neighbours said that the family was very abnormal.
 
 “She would keep the children locked up inside the house and only allowed them to play twice or thrice a week, that too on the terrace. She would always keep a watch on the girls. No one had imagined that she would kill her daughters,” said Mamta Devi, their landlord’s wife.
 
 Another neighbour, Kamla, said that she had seen the family having dinner in the open space outside their house on Monday. “Everything seemed normal till we got the shocking news of the death of the girls in the morning,” she added.
 
 
