NEW DELHI: India and Oman have decided to coordinate efforts to counter “misuse” of religion by groups and states for perpetrating acts of terror and urged the international community to take action against entities which use terrorism as an instrument of policy. 

 During his two-day visit to Oman, Prime Minister   met Sultan Qaboos bin Said and the two leaders exchanged views on regional and international issues of common interest, including the security situation in West and  , said a joint statement issued at the end of the visit. 
 
 “The two sides acknowledged the common threat posed by terrorism to peace and security and agreed to continue working together bilaterally, regionally and globally to counter this menace,” it said. “The two sides agreed to coordinate efforts to counter extremism and radicalisation and misuse of religion by groups and countries for inciting hatred and perpetrating acts of terrorism,” the statement said in what is seen as an oblique reference to Pakistan which is blamed for providing safe haven to terror outfits. 
 
 India and Oman signed eight agreements, including on enhancing defence and security relations. Modi and Sultan Qaboos decided to promote the experiences of India and Oman in building inclusive societies as effective models in countering radicalisation. The two leaders also voiced serious concerns over misuse of cyber space as a medium to promote subversive and extremist ideologies. 
 
 They agreed to enhance cooperation to strengthen maritime security in the Gulf and the   regions, vital for the security and prosperity of both countries. Modi offered India's partnership and cooperation in areas such as minerals and mining, manufacturing, logistics, infrastructure, tourism, agriculture and fisheries, IT and IT enabled-services, skills development, innovation etc. 
 
 Both sides agreed to pursue opportunities in the health care industry, including in pharmaceuticals and biotechnology sectors and resolved to encourage their private sectors to explore participation in these areas. Modi met industry leaders of the Gulf and West Asia region at the India-Oman business meeting on Monday during which he pitched India as an attractive destination to do business. 
 
 “Four countries in 4-days strengthening our footprint in Gulf and West Asia! PM @narendramodi begins Day 4 with business - Oman-India Business Meet in  . Pitching India as an attractive destination to do business, complementing our expanding strategic partnership,” MEA spokesperson Raveesh Kumar tweeted. 
 
 Modi visited the Sultan Qaboos grand mosque in Muscat. He also prayed at the 125-yearold Shiva temple in Muscat, one of the oldest in the region.
