Ludhiana: After lifting gold at the recently-concluded 54th junior national weightlifting championship at Visakhapatnam in Andhra Pradesh, Karandeep Singh, an 18-year-old weightlifter from the city, has secured a berth in the India selection camp for the upcoming Asian Championship and Commonwealth Games under the junior category.

 Karandeep won gold medal in 77kg weight category at the junior national weightlifting championship held from February 21 to 25.
 
 He represented Punjab in the meet and overpowered Telangana weightlifters by lifting a total weight of 285kg (125kg snatch and 160 kg in clean and jerk).
 
 Expressing his excitement, Karandeep said, “I am happy with my performance in the junior meet as it has taken me a step away from donning India colours. I am looking forward to qualify for the Asian weightlifting championship or Commonwealth Games.”
 
 “Last year too, I tried my best to qualify for India. But my dream remained unfulfilled as I lost in the quarterfinal round. This time, I will leave no stone unturned to qualify for India,” said Karandeep.
 
 “For the past three years, I have been training at Ludhiana weightlifting and body building club near Rakh Bagh. I also won gold in the 63d school national weightlifting championship at Hyderabad (Telangana) in December, 2017.
 
 “My father and Pravesh Chander Sharma, general secretary, district weightlifting association, had helped me a lot in the initial training days. But I haven’t got any support from the Punjab sports department which is very discouraging.”
 
 Ram Singh, coach and father of Karandeep Singh, said, “In the absence of any concrete sports policy in the state, national and international players are finding it difficult to continue their passion. Even after winning a gold medal in the national level meet, Karandeep did not get help of a single penny from the Punjab sports ministry.”
 
 “In comparison, the Rajasthan government gives Rs 2 lakh to national medallist and the Haryana government also gives grants to players to continue their games and bring medals at the international level,” he said.
 
 
