MUMBAI: Two fraudsters have been arrested for spoofing email addresses of  , BKC, to target parents seeking kindergarten seats for their children. While one parent lost Rs 1 lakh to a Kalyan con man, another went to the school first before making payment. What’s puzzling police is that how the two fraudsters—one of them is from Tamil Nadu-—got details of applicants as well as of school officials. Both cases came to light when the parents approached the school separately to inquire whether seats have been confirmed for their children. Police said that after the school publicised about admission for lower kindergarten, it received around 900 applications for 60 seats—to be filled through lottery. Soon after, a businessman received an email from an address that seemed to be a school representative asking him to deposit a certain amount to ensure his daughter’s admission. But when the parent approached the school with the email, the authorities denied sending such an email.

 The school authorities immediately suspected a fraud as they had, around the same time, received a threat mail from an account, aklaksiddqui@ gmail.com, demanding admission for the girl. The mail sender had threatened to use his political clout to get a seat if the school refused to comply. Consequently, the school lodged a complaint with the cyber crime cell of Mumbai police, which tracked down the fraudster to Coimbatore in Tamil Nadu based on the phone number with which the email account was created. “The suspect, Vivekanand Subbaiyan, admitted to have sent those emails to make some quick money,” said a police officer. When TOI contacted Anoop Joseph, the school’s admission officer who lodged the complaint in February, he refused to speak on the case. The school faced a similar case again during UKG admissions.
 
  
 A parent received an email that seemed to be from the school, confirming his son’s admission to UKG and asking him to deposit Rs 1 lakh as fee. The parent made the payment and then mailed to the school on April 18 saying the fees had been deposited. The school authorities were shocked as the boy had not been allotted a seat. Police traced the IP address to Kalyan and arrested a 27-year-old con man. The suspect,  , was earlier arrested in 2015 for duping the same parent on Facebook. In another case, Bhalerao had been arrested for duping a woman offering her a break in Salman Khar starrer Dabangg-3.
 
