The dialogue on   in   was stirred again on Thursday night when   admitted to having faced the casting couch early in her career. The actress went on to taste success despite saying no, and that is what she wants every woman in the industry to do. “Everyone has already started saying ‘no’, due to which the casting couch exists much lesser than what it used to. Times are changing and I know many female actors who are successful without having to face the casting couch, touch wood,” says Sruthi, adding that it is important for women to come together collectively and say no — not just to the casting couch, but to everything that is sexist and derogatory. “Female actors must say no, even if it is for a scene in which they have to do something   for commercial value. It is high time we said no; it may not always be in our power to change the scene — which should be the aim — but at least the protest would have registered, which will lead to a change, no matter how slow it is,” she adds.

 Talking about the   in our films, Sruthi says, “In one of the most popular films in South India, the lead actor goes to the women’s hostel — no questions asked — and tells the female lead, ‘You see these fat chicks, they are like teddy bears — they are loyal. No two women can be friends, which is why a good-looking chick and a fat chick are a deadly combination. Trust me, this friendship will work.’ He slaps the female lead three times in the film for no reason. This is how regressive we are. I know women who have watched such films and have enjoyed it. That is a scary thought. Yes, movies are a reflection of society, but the vice versa is true as well; society takes a lot from movies and we, in the film industry, have the power to propel change,” she says. 
 
 
  
 Agreeing with what fellow actor   said recently, Sruthi adds that it is not just the responsibility of women, but of men as well to end sexism and patriarchy. “With super stardom comes great responsibility. Stars have the power to influence what people perceive as morally OK and what is not.” On a parting note, Sruthi has this to say: “Women, express your opinions. Think twice about the repercussions of what you do onscreen, because it’s not that you shoot for a scene or song and it is over. There is a huge audience watching it, and there is thin line between what is vulgar and derogatory and what is acceptable. And the line is very subjective; it is blurred most of the time. Women are still treated as pretty dolls and objects of desires in popular films, and that narrative has to change. There is most certainly a change, but it has to change in popular cinema as well.”
 
