GAYA: Unpaid for the last three months, more than 1000 newly-appointed assistant professors of different universities of the state rue their lot. A sizeable number of the recruits hailing from outside the state have started looking for other options.

 The recruitments were made on the recommendation of the   ( ). Nearly 150 of the appointments were made in Bodh Gaya-based Magadh University. 
 
 Victim of non-payment, an assistant professor deputed in one of the MU colleges said that he and several of his friends have applied for jobs outside the state and would quit the moment they get new job even with lower but assured salary. The assistant professor, preferring anonymity, said he knows many colleagues who resigned their previous jobs and now they repent their decision. 
 
 “I salute the wisdom of those who did not join,” he said adding, “Records show that several appointees refused the offer. “
 
 In MU alone, at least six assistant professors did not join despite getting appointment letters. Four of the 48 assistant professors in Chemistry did not join MU service. Two of the 22 assistant professors in Mathematics did the same. Elsewhere in the state too, several appointees did not join. At least one such MU appointee is said to have already quit her job
 
 Criticising the state government for its 'utter neglect' of higher education in the state,   and Sanjay Singh, president and general secretary respectively of the Federation of University Teachers Association of Bihar (FUTAB), said, “The predicament of these newly-appointed assistant professors is quite imaginable as they have to arrange for accommodation and other requirements without salary.”
 
 University officials have washed off their hands on the alibi that the state government has not released salary grant for several months now. The last salary grant was released in September 2017.
 
 Universities of the state are already facing acute faculty shortage and nearly 60% of the more than 12000 sanctioned posts of university and college teachers are vacant. About 500 teachers retire every year. 
 
 The last appointments were made in 2003. After 11 years, a move for fresh recruitments was made and the task was entrusted to the Bihar Public Service Commission (BPSC). In 2014, the BPSC advertised 3,364 post of assistant professors. Altogether, 609 posts were for MU. Almost four years later, only about one third of the vacancies have been filled.
 
 
