Gurgaon: Imagine a city where victory in a Twenty-20 match inspires authorities to build roads, a half century brings water to households, a five-wicket haul cleans up drains and every six hit lights up a house.

 Homebuyers and residents from societies built along the   have decided to take to the cricket field, hoping to strike a chord with the authorities and get them to lay down all basic infrastructures in the  .
 
 DXP Welfare Association, an umbrella organisation of homebuyers and residents from the new sectors along the e-way, is going to organise a cricket tournament starting on April 14. Already, 20 RWAs have registered their teams, comprising young residents, for the event that will continue for around two months. Matches will be played on weekends in grounds of sectors 81-115, each having a unique theme, highlighting issues that range from a delay in completion of the e-way, removal of Kherki Daula toll plaza, incomplete internal sector roads to lack of civic amenities like water, power and drain.
 
 “Over 30 matches, including league and knockout phases, each of 15 overs, will be played. The idea is to bring people together to push for all-round development of the new sectors and speedy completion of Dwarka Expressway,” said Yashesh Yadav, the president of the association.
 
 A rough estimate suggests around 90,000 people have invested in residential and commercial properties in over 100 projects being developed along the Dwarka e-way, which was conceived as an alternative route between Delhi and Gurgaon. “But even after so many years, the authorities have failed to create basic infrastructures in the new sectors,” rued Yadav. 
 
 “How long does it take to complete a road project? The government has failed to address our problems,” said Harinder Singh, a resident of Sector 84.
 
 Prakhar Sahay, a member of the association, said sports helped bring people together and in India, nothing was more popular than cricket. 
 
 “We have been campaigning on various platforms as individuals or small groups. But there is a need to have contacts among all the new sector residents to mount pressure on the authorities and fight for our rights,” Sahay added.
 
 
