PATNA:  , a student of  , has topped National Defence Academy ( ) examination 2017 conducted by the   (UPSC). Next in the order from the school is Shubham Kumar Jha, who secured third rank.

 Colonel M I Hussain, principal of the school, said as many as 37 cadets of the institution have cracked the examination, the results of which were declared on May 9. The UPSC has provisionally recommended 447 candidates for Army, Navy and Air Force wings of National Defence Academy for the 140th Course and Naval Academy for the 100th Indian Naval Academy Course (INAC), commencing from July 2018. 
 
 Meanwhile, at least four students from Sainik School, Gopalganj, have been selected for admission to National Defence Academy in Pune. Neeraj Kumar Singh from   has secured 68th rank, Raman Kumar Rajneesh from   139th rank, Aditya Raj Singh from Chhapra 147th rank and Ankesh Raj from Samastipur 405th rank.
 
 Tender Hearts High School: Students of Tender Hearts High School celebrated Mother’s Day on Friday. 
 
 Several contests, such as best dressed mother, best caring mother, best story telling mother and best dancing mother, were organised. All the mothers wore traditional attires on the occasion. 
 
 The founder of the school, Premlata Bhargava, extended gratitude to all the mothers and announced the commencement of summer camps for the academic session. She said, “The summer camps will begin from May 13 and continue for ten days. The camp will include activities like swimming, dancing, acting, yoga, skating and arts and crafts.” 
 
 Arvind Mahila College: The newly created Pataliputra University would be developed on the pattern of Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) and Banaras Hindu University (BHU), said vice-chancellor (VC) Gulab Chand Ram Jaiswal on Friday.
 
 Addressing the inaugural function of the Information and Communication Technology (ICT) laboratory and smart classes at Sri Arvind Mahila College, the VC said the university would provide all modern amenities to students and faculty members of different colleges and faculty members. However, he also urged them to perform their duties sincerely.
 
 
