KOLKATA: What will happen to the 19,000-odd candidates elected unopposed in the state rural polls after the   directed the SEC to put on hold the gazette notification of the results? City lawyers are divided over the interpretation of the apex court order.

 
 Senior lawyer and Trinamool MP   said it was difficult to undo the elections and arrange for fresh contests in these seats when the candidates concerned had already got certificates from the returning officer. “The Supreme Court has put on hold the gazette notification of the results of these seats. If somebody is aggrieved with the results, s/he can move the district court individually, as provided under the statutes of the West Bengal Panchayat Act, 2003. The Supreme Court is not the forum to redress the grievance,” said Banerjee. The Trinamool MP sees the apex court order as one against the opposition parties trying to “stall the election process and the rural vote on May 14”.
 
 Senior lawyer and CPM leader  , however, put his hopes on the Supreme Court withholding the declaration of results. “The Supreme Court has passed the directive after being informed by the state election commission that these candidates had already got certificates from the returning officer. Why did the   then pass the order? We should bear in mind the submission was made by the commission and not by any individual candidate. What’s more is that the SC expressed concern over such a huge number of uncontested seats. It means all these certificates have to be taken back,” Bhattacharya said. The CPM leader would like to wait for the July 3 apex court hearing on enominations that have been stayed by the court. “If the apex court allows e-nomination, doors will be opened for contest in a large number of seats,” he said.
 
 Senior advocate and   leader Arunava Ghosh made a point: “The Supreme Court has taken note of the large number of uncontested seats. It means people, adding up to a crore, have been denied the right of democracy, which is the bedrock of our Constitution. The West Bengal Panchayat Act is a statutory Act that can’t gain primacy over the Constitution.
 
 The bottom line is candidates in 34% of the 58,467 panchayat seats have to wait with bated breath for the SC order that will decide on their participation in the three-tier panchayati raj.
 
