BENGALURU: The JD(S) which neither has a woman MLA nor a Muslim winner or even a strong Lingayat to represent the party is in a spot of bother over portfolio sharing.

 
 To ensure fair representation to major communities and all regions in his coalition government with the   and preserve his and his coalition's pan-Karnataka image, the party's chief minister-designate   may well have to concede to the grand old party a fair share of plum portfolios in his next cabinet.
 
 According to sources in the two parties, 40 per cent of JD(S) MLAs are likely to land ministerial berths, while 25 per cent of the 78 Congress lawmakers may be made ministers.
 
 JD(S) sources admit that though they are in the driver's seat, the bus does not have enough party members from all communities and regions.
 
 With 78 MLAs, the Congress should have been in the driver's seat. However, in the "swift" action to keep the BJP out of power in Karnataka, the party may very well have resigned to play the second fiddle, given its national ambitions of cobbling up a formidable anti-BJP coalition.
 
 But the fact that the JD(S) has primarily won in South Karnataka with no representatives from minorities and women offers the grand old party a sliver of hope that key portfolios will come its way.
 
 Thirty-one of the 36 JD(S) MLAs, effectively 86 per cent, are from South Karnataka and 51 per cent of the party MLAs are Vokkaligas. The party has only four MLAs from Hyderabad-Karnataka region, one from Mumbai Karnataka and none from Coastal Karnataka. This lopsided representation of communities and regions in the current JD(S) legislature will only circumscribe Kumaraswamy's ability to ensure fair representation to his party MLAs.
 
 That the Congress-JD(S) government will have a Vokkaliga at the helm of affairs effectively rules out the plum ministerial berths for several seasoned JD(S) Vokkaliga MLAs, barring Kumaraswamy's brother H D Revanna,   and A T Ramaswamy.
 
 The lack of a strong Dalit leader in the JD(S), barring former minister K Annadani, has given the Congress the opportunity to have its party state president as G Parameshwara as the deputy CM.
 
 All JD(S) women, backward classes and minority candidates have lost the elections, barring H Vishwanath (Kuruba). This will give the Congress an edge to push for ministerial berths for at least two Muslim candidates and K J George. Among the women, Laxmi Hebbalkar and Anjali Nimbalkar may get the nod from the Congress.
 
 The JD(S) also lacks credible Lingayat-Veerashaiva faces, barring Bandeappa Kashempur and MLC Basavaraj Horratti. This could help Congress get berths for at least two or three Lingayat MLAs from its ranks.
 
 
