JAIPUR: With assembly elections drawing near, independent MLA from Khimsar,   on Sunday said that he would soon float a new political party. 

 He said, “BJP and Congress are sailing in the same boat. We will not join hands with any of those.” He also hinted that he would give option to voters by launching ‘teesra morcha’ (third front) in the state. 
 
 He was addressing a large numbers of farmers who haad gathered in Bikaner to demand implementation of recommendations of Swaminathan Commission for their benefit on Sunday. 
 
 Along with him, MLA from Lalsot, Kirori Lal Meena also addressed the gathering of the farmers. 
 
 In the famers’   spearheaded by Beniwal, farmers demanded free electricity for agriculture, payment of crop insurance, compensation for crop loss, filling of 4 lakh posts lying vacant and Rs10,000 as unemployment allowance. 
 
 “We demanded implementation of Swaminathan Commission for improving the state of agriculture in the Rajasthan,” said Beniwal. 
 
 He said that farmers are not getting payment of crop insurance. “The farmers of the state have paid Rs 20,000 crore as premium for crop insurance. But they have got only Rs 800 crore for their crop loss. The measurement of crop loss of the insurance companies is faulty. They assess damage of crops at tehsil level. If the crop loss is more than 60% at tehsil level, they issue payment for crop loss. We have demanded that the companies should assess individual’s agriculture field as a unit for crop damage but not tehsil as a unit for issuing compensation,” said Beniwal. 
 
 He alleged that it is major corruption as farmers have paid Rs 20,000 crore as premium but they have not got the returns for it, when their crops were damaged.
 
 Beniwal had recently organized similar ‘hunkar’ rallies in Nagaur and Barmer and he is planning to organise such rallies in other parts of the state. “Next hunkar rallies will be organised in Sikar and Jaipur,” he said. 
 
 Talking about reservation for economically backwards, Beniwal said that he had advocated reservation for those who are financially weak. “If any particular section of society is financially weak, it should get the reservation,” he said.
 
 
