KOLKATA: An 18-year-old engineering student was seriously injured when he fell off a moving passenger train at   on Friday evening. Witnesses claimed the boy was trying to click a selfie when he lost balance and fell. The Dum Dum GRP, however, said they were still investigating the chain of events leading to the fall.

 Sources said the Lake Town resident had boarded the Up   local and had been standing at the gate when he fell. Passengers claimed   let go of the handles while posing for the picture and was thrown off balance. Others in the train raised an alarm when he fell on track number 3.
 
 The train was stopped and the GRP were informed immediately. Sur was taken to NRS Medical College and Hospital around 6:15pm. Doctors said he was admitted with multiple fractures on his arms. His condition, however, was stated to be stable. Sealdah Railway SP Ashesh Biswas said, “The teenager was taken to hospital after he sustained several injuries. He, however, is stable. We are probing the reasons behind the accident.” Police said they were speaking to Sur’s co-passengers, but indicated it may have been an accident. “The youth is under trauma. We will record his statement too. We have not lodged any specific case. It will hinge on the outcome of the inquiry,” an officer said.
 
 Doctors who treated Sur said he will be kept under observation for a few more days. His relatives have been informed, police said. Mediapersons efforts to speak to Sur or his family members, however, were futile.
 
 Less than a month ago, two college-goers were run over by a train in   while they were shooting a video on the tracks. The Pannihati residents were making a video for YouTube to stop depressed youths from ending their lives. After the incident, GRP had repeatedly cautioned passengers to stop using cellphones while travelling or walking near tracks.
 
 Cellphone use can be blamed for around 16% of the 1,070 track deaths last year within Sealdah GRP’s jurisdiction (the Sealdah-Bongaon route and the   route).
 
