MUMBAI: With three more witnesses not supporting the prosecution’s case on Thursday, some 33 of the 49 witnesses have turned hostile in the trial of the 2005 alleged fake encounter of   in Ahmedabad. In a related development, a witness summoned to depose in the alleged fake encounter case of Shaikh’s associate Tulsiram Prajapati has written to the special   court that he feared for his life and sought protection.

 Responding to the first such request by a witness, special judge S J Sharma passed an order on Wednesday saying: “Looking at his fear, it is desirable to provide protection to him to bring and send back from court to his house. CBI Mumbai is directed to make arrangements.”
 
 The Prajapati trial is expected to begin next week. Prajapati, who was alleged to have been an eyewitness to the Shaikh killing, was whisked away to Udaipur and allegedly killed in another fake encounter in 2006. Prajapati had allegedly made applications mentioning threats made by some cops of   and Rajasthan police. 
 
 The witness who sought protection was privy to these applications, the CBI had said.
 
 The three who turned hostile on Thursday were panch witnesses whose statements were recorded in connection with the farmhouses in which Shaikh and his wife were kept confined in 2005. The CBI said the statements of the panch witnesses were recorded after they were shown the farmhouses in 2007 during investigation. The statements said they were told about the couple’s abduction and confinement at the properties. However, on Thursday, they said they were never taken to the properties but had signed on the documents. The prosecution declared them hostile.
 
 Gangster Sohrabuddin Shaikh was allegedly abducted by police personnel of the Gujarat ATS near Hyderabad, along with his wife Kausar Bi, on November 23, 2005, goes the CBI case. The couple was taken to Ahmedabad and two days later, he was killed in a fake encounter. The CBI alleged that the following day, Kausar Bi was killed and her body was burnt on a riverbed near Illol village in Gujarat.
 
 On Monday, two panchas whose statements were recorded in connection with the viscera of Shaikh turned hostile, and in contradiction to their CBI statements, denied seeing deputy superintendent of police S P Parmar, one of the accused, when they were shown the viscera in the ATS office soon after the killing in 2005. The witnesses did not recognise the accused cop sitting in court. The matter will now be heard on Friday.
 
 
