RANCHI: Mayor   on Tuesday issued directions to   in the capital within the next 24 hours. At the review meeting to take stock of work accomplished by various departments of the   (RMC), Lakra directed civic officials to issue   at the earliest. The meeting was attended by municipal commissioner Shantanu Argahari and other RMC officials. 

 Lakra said, "Defaulters with illegal hoardings in place need to be dealt with strictly and any such hoardings should be taken down with immediate effect. There is a set of rules in place for placing hoardings in the city and the corporation is answerable in case of accidents." 
 
 A senior RMC official explained, "These illegal overhead hoardings are placed atop many dilapidated buildings. The hoardings are often large and heavy and pose a threat to the building's structural strength. If any mishap takes place, the RMC will be blamed for it."
 
 The mayor also pulled up civic officials on advertisement hoardings placed on 766 poles across the capital. She also asked them to remove all the illegal hoardings after fining the defaulters. Argahari informed that if the fine is paid within 15 days of the receipt of the notice, 50% of the amount will be waived off. 
 
 Argahari and Lakra then crossed swords on the course of action that should be initiated after the fine is paid. Argahari said, "Tenders for new hoardings cannot be floated because the state government has issued an official notice to allot ad space tenders across the state. Taking down the existing hoardings which are generating revenue will be a bad move as it will result in a loss of revenue for RMC." Lakra countered his argument and added that rules must be followed first and rule breakers cannot be ignored even if it causes revenue loss.
 
 The meeting also saw extensive discussion on the status of the parks in the capital. Lakra also directed the officials to increase CCTV monitoring in the parks. 
 
 Lakra directed the civic officials to float a tender for management of parking spaces in the city to check illegal fine collection rackets functioning in the capital. "Frauds have been collecting parking charges under the banner of RMC since quite sometime. This paints a bad picture among common people and we need to hire an agency to spearhead parking services in the capital at the earliest," Lakra added.
 
 
