NEW DELHI: A serial pervert, who was recently released from jail, was arrested on Saturday for flashing and masturbating in front of two   in   on Thursday evening. In barely half an hour, Sandeep Chauhan targeted the women living in the same building. In the earlier instance, a woman had jumped off her second-floor house as Chauhan barged into her house and started masturbating in front of her. 

 The police got to know about Thursday’s incidents after one of the women filed a complaint. While scanning the CCTV footage of the colony, the police noticed Chauhan making rounds of the area for over half an hour before heading towards the first survivor’s ground-floor house. He kept roaming around the house till he noticed the woman in her balcony.
 
 The survivor told TOI that she initially did not notice the man flashing at her, but later saw him masturbating when her sister and a friend also came outside. “The man asked me to check my cable connection. As I started going inside after telling him that we don’t have one, he insisted that I still check it once. Probably he wanted to open the gate and come in,” she said. “It was only on CCTV footage that I saw him masturbating even before I came to the balcony.” 
 
 The second survivor said she got off her office cab outside the colony around 12.30am. “As I was walking towards my house, I noticed this man following me. As I sped up to enter my third-floor house, he kept following me. As I ran towards my house, he also did so.” 
 
 As she rang the doorbell, the man flashed and started masturbating while passing lewd comments at her. “I immediately went in and when I peeped out after a few minutes, I saw him standing right there. As I called my friend in panic, I was shocked to know that she had been subjected to the same,” she said.
 
 The police are trying to find out from the   school where Chauhan was a taekwondo instructor if any similar complaint was filed against him there.
 
 A case under IPC 292 (punishment for obscene acts) and 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation) has been registered against him.
 
 
