LOS ANGELES: Chuck McCarthy’s walking service provides fresh air, exercise and companionship for $30 an hour — but peeing on trees is an absolute no-no. The Los Angeles-based entrepreneur works with humans, not animals, and is striking a blow for health and social inclusion as the founder of the car-friendly city’s first people-walking business.

 “I was thinking about becoming a dog walker. But I’ve never had a dog in the city, so I’ve never had to pick up dog poop,”   said. “I was also seeing a lot of personal trainer ads. And so I kind of said to my girlfriend, ‘Maybe I’ll just become a  .’”
 
 McCarthy was joking but the more he thought about it, the more he realized there was a need for the kind of comradeship he could provide. The People Walker started as a one-man operation two years ago. But demand was so high that McCarthy now has a roster of 35 walkers, and a website where people can choose routes and walking partners.
 
 Social disconnection has been linked in various studies to depression, heart disease, diabetes and cancer, and can shorten life as profoundly as regular smoking, according to some estimates.
 
 Eric Klinenberg, a professor of sociology at  , identified a major cause of loneliness in a recent column in The  : a growing global culture of individualism.
 
 It’s not that people have fewer friends, say experts, but rather that the “gig economy” has produced a generation of freelancers with none of the routines or social bonds that traditionally connected workers. “I’ve walked people that are married with kids that have tons of friends. It’s about convenience and it’s about location and basically having things your way,” McCarthy says.
 
 Meanwhile smartphones and social media have deepened divisions, replacing real human relationships with the ersatz companionship of a social media following. Instead of “screaming into the void of Twitter or  ,” McCarthy’s clients get to enjoy real human connections with people that don’t know them and won’t judge or gossip.
 
