PUNE: For the first time, every page of the answer book and the supplementary sheets for the   ( ) will have a barcode to avoid pages getting misplaced. Hall tickets with instructions printed in English and Marathi is another first. 
 
  
 Over 17.51 lakh students from 21,986 schools will appear for the examination at 4,657 centres across the state. Thursday is the first day of the examination which will go on till March 24. 
  
 The board’s authorities advised students to reach their examination centres at least half an hour before the examination starts or they will not be allowed inside the hall. 
  
 In Pune division, the hall tickets were given online to students. The examination for vocational subjects will also be held for the first time this year for which 19,184 students have registered. 
  
 Of the total students, 9.73 lakh are boys and 7.78 lakh are girls. There are 16.37 lakh fresh candidates (those appearing for the first time) 67,563 repeaters and those from other categories like the betterment scheme are numbered at 46,007. 
  
 The re-examination for the March 2018   will be held in July or August. There are 10 counsellors across the state to help students. If a student was unable to appear for the practical or viva examination, a provision for out-of-turn examination has been made. 
  
 “Students with a genuine reason for not appearing for the practical exam conducted earlier can appear on March 26 and 27. The divisional board will give a districtwise centre for the out-of-turn examination. Such students have to approach the divisional centre for details,” Shakuntala Kale, chairperson of the state board, said on Thursday. 
  
 The examinations are held across nine divisions and every division has seven flying squads to make sure there are no malpractices in the centres. 
  
 There will be 252 flying squads, every district will have a monitoring committee under the district collector and special squads as well as women squads have been formed in certain divisions. 
  
 For English and mathematics, people have been assigned to sit through the entire examination at a centre to make sure no malpractices happen. 
  
 A total of 8,021 students from the physically handicapped category will appear for the examination. “These students along with those with learning disabilities will be given special provisions but they will need valid documents. If they do not have them they must contact the divisional office with the necessary documents immediately,” secretary of the board K K Patil said. 
  
 Only autistic students will be allowed the use of calculators. They can choose one language, and in place of other two subjects, they can choose work experience subjects. They can also choose numerical (standard 7) or general mathematics. 
  
  
