NEW DELHI: Confusion prevailed for several minutes after   delivered its verdict on the plea of the disqualified  . In a rush to relay “breaking news”, some channels — and even lawyers — mistook the first two paras of the operative portion read out by the bench to mean that EC opinion had been upheld, only to sheepishly correct their “updates” later.

 The words, “reference made by President to ECI is valid” followed by “order dated June 23, 2017, passed by ECI is valid and in accordance with law”, were enough for many to scamper out of the courtroom and declare a setback for  . Even as Justice Sanjiv Khanna kept reading out the order, news spread like wildfire that Delhi was staring at fresh bypolls.
 
 Messages on WhatsApp and social networking sites appeared to convey the   ruling, albeit exactly the opposite of what the court had held.
 
 It was only when the bench further read out from the judgment — that EC’s opinion of January 19 and President’s order a day later were being quashed — did it dawn on many that the court had, in fact, overturned the EC direction of disqualification. “Accordingly, writ of certiorari is issued quashing the opinion ... and the consequent order/notification dated January 20, 2018, for violation of principles of natural justice, namely, failure to give oral hearing and opportunity to address arguments on merits of the issue whether MLAs had incurred   (sic),” Justice Khanna announced.
 
 What the court had upheld in the initial paras was the validity of reference made by the President to EC on the complaint received by it from advocate Prashant Patel challenging the AAP government’s March 2015 order appointing the MLAs as parliamentary secretaries.
 
 “The President need not make a fresh reference. In light of the statutory provisions and the legal position, the EC has to render and give its opinion on the reference,” it said. The bench also held as “valid and in accordance with law”, the EC’s June 23 order to go ahead with the hearing in the matter, despite HC’s judgment holding the Delhi government order appointing the MLAs as parliamentary secretaries as illegal.
 
 
