Noida/Greater Noida: It took a woman’s death and serious injuries suffered by her son for the Greater Noida Authority to get its acts together and remove over 20 illegal   from the main roads of Greater Noida West late on Sunday.

 Jaibunnisha (42), a resident of Haibatpur village of Bisrakh, got crushed under the hoarding that fell on her and son Imran on Sunday. Imran is recuperating in a hospital.
 
 However, a reality check on Monday showed that there are many more such hoardings on the main roads of Noida and Noida Extension and waiting for another thunderstorm to cause damage to life and property.
 
 A drive on the Bisrakh road till Parthala roundabout and beyond showed that there are umpteen number of hoardings on the sides of these main roads.
 
 On the main road between Bisrakh and Kisan Chowk, hoardings could be spotted near the Hindustan Petroleum pump, before Gautam Budh Balak Inter College, near Ace City, etc.
 
 This, even as nearly 20 hoardings could be seen lying on a side after they were removed from roadsides by the Authority which carried out a late-night drive for the same.
 
 On the Parthala to Sarfabad road, a 40-foot high hoarding was spotted opposite the Parthala roundabout while another was spotted outside the OIDB Bhawan in Sector 73. 
 
 Another was found opposite the SRS hospital on the same road.
 
 Similarly, at least two hoardings were found on the main road at the busy Balak Nath Cut.
 
 Subhash Chand, principal scientist, Central Road Research Institute (CRRI) told TOI that as far as safety is concerned, no hoardings or signboards should be there on the main roads.
 
 “These decisions are being taken by the local authorities and there are many vested interests as these hoardings are linked to revenue. There are guidelines of the Indian Road Congress (IRC) relating to such boards saying that those which are old need to be replaced keeping the safety of the commuters in mind,” he said.
 
 While concerns are being raised by NGOs on the threat these hoardings pose to commuters, there are lobbies which hamper any upgradation of guidelines, he said.
 
 Two years ago, on May 23, 2016, two men were killed when a road signage of the Noida Authority had fallen on their bike at Sector 18.
 
 KM Chaudhary, incharge, urban services, Greater Noida Authority told TOI that these illegal hoardings have been mushrooming across Greater Noida West without any sanction from the Authority.
 
 “We are in the process of issuing tenders for legal advertisement boards. 
 
 “The entire area under GNIDA has been divided into eight or ten zones and tenders will be issued for installing such advertisement boards,” he said.
 
 Meanwhile, the administration has also announced a relief of Rs 4 lakh rupees to Jaibunisha’s family from the state disaster relief fund.
 
 ADM Keshav Kumar said that the amount will be transferred to her husband Khalil’s account.
 
 
