KOLKATA: The West Bengal health regulatory commission has not reverted to the city’s private hospitals, five months after receiving from each of them — on the commission’s orders — an itemised list of how much they charge for their procedures and packages. This has caused several private hospitals to stall their expansion plans and defer inauguration of new units.

 Last year, the commission had asked private hospitals to list and explain the cost of their procedures by August 15. It was supposed to get back to them with its views.
 
 Each   had responded, listing the rate for each procedure, package and diagnosis, using the state government’s   rates, laid down to provide treatment at reasonable charges to the underprivileged, as a reference. But the process — to address allegations of over-billing by a section of private hospitals — has now stalled fresh health investment in the city.
 
 At least three private hospitals are ready to launch new units, but have been going slow in the wake of last year’s billing controversies. They have also been deterred by the repeated charges of over-billing and scrutiny of charges by the newly formed commission. Hospitals have pointed out that till their rates receive the green light, investing in new units could be risky. Last year, a women’s and children’s hospital inaugurated a unit at Rajarhat, but has deferred full-scale operations. It is due for a full-scale launch in February, but the authorities are keeping all options open.
 
 Medica Superspecialty Hospital is ready to begin work on a building to house a 230-bed cancer hospital, but is in no hurry to begin. “The climate is not conducive for new investments,” said Alok Roy, chairperson, Medica. “The future remains uncertain and we have to be judicious when it comes to fresh investments. But we are still ready to go ahead,” said Roy added.
 
 Escalating costs are making it difficult to restrict charges, said  , president of the   (AHEI). “Everything from disposables, staff salaries and real estate costs are going up every year. We have explained that to the commission while justifying our rates. A rate cut would sound the death knell for private healthcare in Kolkata. But we trust the government and believe that they will be reasonable,” he said.
 
  is ready to add 175 beds to its   unit. The other two units of the hospital — at Dhakuria and Salt Lake — are also set to be upgraded and expanded. The projects have been in the pipeline for quite some time now, but the authorities are in a slo-mo mode.
 
 Hospitals have rejected the Swasthya Sathi rates as being “too low to be feasible for private establishments”. “The rates are just about 30%-40% of what we charge on an average. It can’t sustain a big private hospital. Since the government had only mentioned it as a reference, there is no compulsion to lower our rates. But we still don’t know what they think about the existing rates. Till we have their response, we can’t think of investing further in the city,” said a private hospital official.
 
 Roy agreed. “It is important to take the process forward and settle the billing controversies once and for all. This is important to win back people’s trust, which has been dented by last year’s incidents. Also, once we know the extent to which our rates are being endorsed by the government, we will be able to frame our investment policy better. A rate cut is impossible, for none of us is making huge profits. If the government is eager to provide cheaper treatment, it should make state-run hospitals more efficient,” he said.
 
 Private hospitals had been asked to list and submit their charges by August 15 last year. They also sent an explanation, accompanied by a covering letter, arguing that their charges were consistent with the operational expenses and technological input costs, which are necessary for high-quality healthcare and satisfactory clinical outcomes. “We have to spend on upgrading our instruments and machinery, which is a huge cost. Our running expenses, too, can’t be lowered any further. But there are scores of nursing homes in the city which should be pulled up for over-billing and wrong treatment. They are sub-standard and that is why a response from the commission is important,” said a hospital CEO.
 
 Only critical care costs were a grey area, felt Mehta. “Most hospitalizations are either planned or come under packages with fixed rates. Only critical care charges can’t be pre-determined and keep escalating if the patient’s condition worsens. This leads to over-billing charges, which can only be addressed through proper interaction between patients’ kin and hospital authorities kept on record,” he said.
 
 Mehta added that a series of reforms had been initiated since hospitals were asked to lay down charges. Notable among them was the practice of video-recording financial counselling sessions with patient parties. This helped to ensure that patients’ relatives were kept informed about the bill amount, treatment and its progress, which may inflate charges. “While the system has been working well, it would have helped had we known the government’s response on the existing rates. It would have cleared the air about the charges of over-billing that were levelled against several hospitals last year,” he said.
 
