LUDHIANA: The residents of   have raised the demand for the construction of a multiplex and a fully-developed market from the officials of Greater Ludhiana Area Development Authority (Glada). The residents said they are forced to travel several kilometers to go to the malls and multiplexes for shopping. The proposal has been mooted to construct a market on the pattern of Sector 17, Chandigarh. The construction of a multiplex has also been proposed on a vacant Glada land.

 The residents claimed there is no such facility on this road despite the fact that the localities are fully occupied here. The localities like Sectors 32, 32-A, 33, 38, 39 and 40 fall under Glada, while some other localities come under the municipal corporation (MC).
 
 A resident of sector 32, Kamal Kishore, said, “For the past so many years, we have to cross almost an entire city if we want to watch a movie at a multiplex. If we want to go shopping at a multiplex, we have to travel for a long time to reach the city. There is lack of leisure and entertainment facilities in this area.”
 
 He said these areas on Chandigarh Road are well-developed and the authorities should think about such coming up with entertainment facilities and markets where one can get everything under one roof.
 
 Another resident from Sector 32-A, Jasbir Singh said, “By the time we reach   for shopping, one can reach Chandigarh. A lot of time is wasted in the traffic jam. If we get a mall or multiplex here, then we will be able to save a lot of time.”
 
 Shivali Verma, a resident of Sector 39, said, “We can go to Chaura Bazaar, Ghumar Mandi and Mall Road to buy designer wears but it takes a lot of time to reach these places due to traffic chaos. The markets should be developed here.”
 
 To meet the demands of the area residents, the MLA from the east constituency, Sanjay Talwar, met the officials from Glada on Friday here and discussed the plan in detail. A site opposite Vardhman on Chandigarh Road has been proposed for the construction of a market on the pattern of Sector 17 market, Chandigarh, and a vacant plot has been selected for the construction of the ‘first’ multiplex on this road. The Glada officials discussed the site plans with the MLA.
 
 MLA Talwar claimed that they have discussed construction of a market, mall, exhibition centre, government college, club, sports complex and also a stadium. He also claimed to have discussed about the development of a green belt in the area. He said he has also asked the Glada officials to pay attention towards sanitation and sewerage problems in the areas.
 
 In the meantime, estate officer of Glada, Navraj Brar, said, “Glada has 8,700 square yards of land for the construction of a hotel near Mohini resort, which can be converted into a mall site. Similarly, six acres is available opposite Vardhman where a market can be constructed too.” He said they will demarcate the land and will sale it off but these will be constructed by the buyers only. Regarding the construction of a sports complex, he said, “It’s at the proposal stage and they will study its feasibility.” 
 
 
