NAINITAL: Uttarakhand high court (HC) on Friday issued a series of directions meant to extend basic human dignity to the mentally challenged and safeguard their interests. While hearing a public interest litigation which cited two TOI reports of mentally challenged people being kept tied in chains in Udham Singh Nagar and Rudraparayag districts, the court directed the administration of both the districts to ensure that the affected persons “are freed within six hours and admitted in a suitable health facility within 24 hours.”
 
  TOI had in its edition dated October 23, 2017 highlighted the plight of  , a 22-year-old youth from Rudraprayag who had been kept chained by his family ever since he was born. The youth is afflicted with a condition termed as quadriparesis which renders limbs immobile as well as aphasia which affects the comprehension of speech. His mother, a widow, did not have the resources to get him treated. In a similar story published on December 28, 2017, TOI had reported on a mentally disabled girl Chandni Das who had been kept chained for three years by her parents. The 14-year-old girl’s father, a daily wager, was unable to provide for her treatment.
  
  Taking cognizance of both these cases, the division bench of justices Rajiv Sharma and Sharad Kumar Sharma directed the state government to pay Rs 50,000 to the guardians of both the   cited in the reports and fix their pension at Rs 5,000 per month. “The families of mentally disturbed children alway remain under stress and strain. Poverty further aggravates the situation. It must be very painful for the parents to chain their own children. We, as a society, have to be sensitive towards the mentally disturbed children,” the judges said. Remarking that “the present petition had raised a question of grave public importance,” the judges directed the government to “undertake a survey of those mentally retarded persons, who are not getting treatment and have been kept by their family members in chains” and submit the report “positively within a period of six weeks.”
  
  The court further appointed the district magistrate and senior superintendent of police of Udham Singh Nagar district as “persons in loco parentis for the care, protection, treatment and rehabilitation” of Chandni Das.
  
  Ajay Veer Pundir, counsel for the petitioner, told TOI that by late evening, the district magistrates of Rudraprayag and Udham Singh Nagar had taken steps to comply with the court’s orders. “The DMs have informed that teams were dispatched to the homes of the patients and their chains were removed. They also assured that an amount of Rs 50,000 will be paid to the families on Saturday and both the patients will be admitted in a medical facility for further medical attention.”
  
  The 56-page exhaustive order included a series of other directions pertaining to the welfare of mentally challenged people in the state. The court directed the state government to “prepare a comprehensive policy for rehabilitating the mentally disturbed children and patients, to conduct an epidemiological survey data in the state to determine the mentally retarded/disturbed children through National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences, Bangalore within six months and to set up a Centre for Human Rights, Ethics, Law and Mental Health.” The division bench also directed the state government to ensure that no person with mental illness is subjected to electro-seclusion or solitary confinement.
  
  The court also added that medical officers in jails will have to send quarterly reports certifying therein that there are no prisoners with mental illness in the prison and the same should also be done by the persons-in-charge of state-run custodial institutions like beggars homes, orphanages, women protection homes and children homes.
  
  The court further directed the state government to frame laws under Mental Healthcare Act, 2017 to design and implement programmes for the promotion of mental health and prevention of mental illness in the state. The judges also asked the government to “collect the complete data of mentally retarded persons in the state including details of those persons who are living their life on the streets.” “The respondents will submit a report stating as to how many mentally retarded persons are getting treatment in the Mental Hospital, Selaqui, Vikasnagar and as to how many doctors are present there. A report will also be submitted stating therein as to how many mentally retarded persons have been cured in the last two years and what action has been taken for their rehabilitation,” the judges said.
  
  
  
