RAIPUR: After the   government in   took a U-turn on its controversial move to allow purchase of   with the consent of its owners, opposition   is now demanding that the land acquired from farmers for setting up industrial and other projects be returned to its original owners in all those cases where the projects have failed to come up after several years.

 “There are numerous instances in which the land was acquired from tribal and other farmers for mega industries which, however, did not come up even after several years”, AICC general secretary P L Punia, who is in-charge of party affairs in Chhattisgarh, told TOI.
 
 Citing an example, he said the land was forcibly acquired from tribal farmers at Lohandiguda area in tribal Bastar for setting up an integrated steel plant but the promotors later withdrew from the project. The land in question has not been returned to its original owners till date as per the provisions of The Right to Fair Compensation and Transparency in Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, 2013.
 
 Pointing out that it is grossly unfair to the tribals, whose agriculture land was forcibly acquired despite their protest, to keep the acquired land in government possession in the name of the land bank, the Rajya Sabha member said the Act of 2013 has clear provisions that the land must be returned to the farmers. “If they want it to acquire it again, they can do so for specific projects at a later stage so that the landowners could get the rate and compensation prevailing at the time of acquisition”, he added.
 
 Asked about the issues for the coming assembly polls in the state, Punia said focus of Congress would be on development and protecting the rights of the people, their land and livelihood. One of our major focus would be as to what extent of rights of people were denied to acquire land—from the farmers, the tribals—for setting up industrial, mining and other projects.
 
 Replying to a question, he said it’s a fact well-known that BJP had won the last three consecutive elections by a slender margin and vote share difference between BJP and the Congress was as wafer-thin as 0.75 percent. 2018 polls will be a turning point as the state government stands discredited due to multiple factors such as failure to fulfil promises made to the farmers, forced land acquisition from farmers for industrial projects corruption during BJP government’s three tenure. Questions were raised against the BJP government on PDS scam, Agusta chopper purchase, Panama papers and list of its omission and commissions is long. Congress, you will find, will bounce back with renewed vigour and wrest power this time, he added.
 
 Asked about chief minister Raman Singh’s claim that the state is heading for a triangular contest with former chief minister Ajit Jogi’s new regional party Janata Congress in the fray, the AICC general secretary said BJP and its chief minister is trying to create confusion among the voters by trying to over-hype about the presence of newly formed regional party. “It’s out of their fear over impending defeat in the next elections. Considering the nature of state’s bipolar politics, the contest will be direct between the Congress and the BJP”, he added.
 
 “Our assessment is that former CM Ajit Jogi’s party has no relevance in state’s bi-polar politics. We feel that when the people have made up their mind for a change after three consecutive terms of BJP rule, they will only vote for a change and that too for a party which is in a position to win the election. Jogi factor will not have any impact on the Congress prospects instead his exit from the party has brought an end to problems like infighting and damaging prospects of own party candidates. Now the party is gearing up to unitedly fight the elections”, he added.
 
