For the youth, weekends are a time to chill out with friends and have fun. But the students of the mechanical engineering department of Government Engineering College,  , had fun in a different way; they conducted a three-day annual fun camp titled ‘Inspire Camp’ for 110 underprivileged kids from shelter homes and orphanages around the city at the Government Fort LP School, Thiruvananthapuram.

 The camp, held from February 2, included games, workshops and interactive sessions for the kids, says chief co-ordinator of the camp, Syamlal HS. “Inspire is a project which we have been conducting since 2014, which was passed on to us by our seniors. It focuses on helping the underprivileged kids in their studies, including English learning and also inspiring them to take up science. For the past three years, we have been visiting these shelter homes and orphanages on weekends and teaching them science subjects and English. The camp is an annual affair where all the kids come together and we provide them three-day edutainment (education and entertainment) by engaging them in field visits and workshops,“ says Syamlal.
 
 The children visited the Vikram Sarabhai Space Centre (VSSC) museum at Thumba and also the Priyadarshini Planetarium and Zoo and Museum. According to a volunteer and mechanical engineering student, Jayakrishnan M, the children were very quick to understand the basic concepts of rocket launching when they visited the space museum. “When the scientists at the space museum explained to them about the exhibits there and about rocket launching, they quickly grabbed the information. Later when we quizzed them on their visit, I was amazed when a Class six boy answered, “A rocket is the launching vehicle for satellites in outer space”. I could not but realise how privileged we were to have parents who fulfilled every need of ours.”
 
 Meanwhile, another volunteer, Meera Nair N, says that the smiles on the kids’ faces reflected the camp’s outcome the best. “When these underprivileged kids find happiness in every small thing including a visit to our nearby zoo in the city, it makes us feel silly about our complaints in life. The camp also created new friendships among the kids.”
 
 The Inspire team made the children understand the basic concepts including velocity, force and speed. “The broad subject science branches out to other sections from Class six and seven. In the camp, the kids loved the segment ‘contraption’ or science games. They also enjoyed the art sessions including origami, perspective drawing and quiz rounds given by our camp partners the students from College of Architecture Trivandrum and EduZone, a civil service academy. The camp also helped the children develop communication and management skills,” says Saurabh Chand, another volunteer. 
 
