CHENNAI: Have you ever wondered why most MTC buses you come across are in the express and deluxe categories especially during peak hours? The   (MTC) has been running them to collect more money without officially increasing fares. But now, facing criticism from various quarters following a fare hike, MTC is trying to cover ground by increasing the number of ordinary services from Monday.

 Though the government claims to operate more than 1,100 buses as low-cost services, less than 20% of the buses are operated in this category, said MTC sources. “Individual depot managers were given a free hand to convert ordinary buses to express or   so that the revenue earned is more. Adversely, this led to a shortage in the number of ordinary MTC buses,” the source added.
 
 While express services collect 1.5 times the ordinary fare, it is almost double for deluxe services. For instance, among the five buses scheduled between T Nagar and CMBT (route M 27), only one bus can be run as deluxe service as per the rule book. The rest should be ordinary buses. “However, all five buses are being run as deluxe services,” said   of   transport union. “Now by introducing more ordinary services, the government would give the impression that the overall fares have not shot through the roof,” he said.
 
 Only school students in Chennai are given free travel concession on all buses. College students with 50% concession and others availing seasonal tickets (monthly/weekly/daily concession under Travel As You Please scheme) shell out more from their pockets on express or deluxe services,   added.
 
 An MTC official said they have been running ordinary and express services based on the government’s policy. He declined to comment about the number of services converted of late. Put together, nearly 900 buses, almost one-fourth of MTC’s fleet, would operate as ordinary services from Monday, sources said.
 
 “Irrespective of service type, almost all MTC buses halt at all stops to pick and drop passengers. The only difference is in the rates collected,” said S Kamal, a resident of Velachery.
 
 The MTC has been pulled up by the state transport department for violating road permit conditions. Stage carriers are not allowed to operate beyond a fixed route or timing, as per rule 249 of the Motor Vehicle Act, 1989.
 
 “But violations were noted on 110 of the 833 scheduled routes and this attracts a fine of ₹190 crore,” said a transport department official.
 
 
