MANALI: Manali’s ‘Amarnath Yatra’ has left devotees disappointed as the frozen   has been damaged due to a gradual rise in temperature. Over 30ft-high ‘lingam’, above Solang Valley, is melting at a fast rate. It has now been reduced to a mere height of 6 to 7ft.

 The frozen ‘lingam’ takes shape as seeping water slowly turns to ice. Though the region did not experience much snowfall this year, the ‘lingam’ had attained a height of over 20ft by January. However, a few days back, it snapped right in the middle, much to the disappointment of a large number of devotees. However, they still continue thronging the valley. 
 
 “Temperature has remained considerably high this year. Sometimes water from the mountain starts falling on it like a shower. This year, the ‘lingam’ has broken into pieces. The pieces have been removed and the area surrounding the ‘lingam’ has been sealed to restrict public movement for safety purpose,” said a local, Gupt Ram, who runs a small shop here.
 
 Residents and devotees believe that the ‘lingam’ will regain its shape if temperature dips in the coming days. Despite the damaged ‘lingam’, the Solan Valley is still being thronged by hundreds of devotees and tourists to witness the miracle of nature. Vinod Kapoor, a tourist from Delhi, said, “I was in Manali with my family and got to know about this ice ‘lingam’ through our driver and we decided to give it a visit. We hired horses to reach here. The area is full of snow and is very beautiful. Though the ‘lingam’ was broken, the place has a devotional atmosphere and significance still. We shall come back to see the huge ‘lingam’ again sometime.”
 
 A sage  , who has his ashram in Gurugram and Manali, had explored this place about 30 years ago. He then developed it as a temple. Not only devotees, but thousands of tourists come here every year. The legend has it that Lord Hanuman’s mother Anjani did penance at this place after which Shiva blessed her with Hanuman. Besides ‘lingam’, the place has a temple of Lord Hanuman too.
 
 Sandwiched between two mountain faces, the place is usually covered with snow for almost the entire winter. This attracts a large number of tourists who can reach here by horse ride or by trekking for about half an hour. Though the premise of the temple remains abuzz with devotees, residents fear if temperature keeps rising, the ‘lingam’ will melt in a few weeks. Generally, it is formed in October and November and lasts till March-April.
 
 
