KOLKATA: A city school has a curious problem involving a student with  . The 14-year-old craves for affection and gets aroused by the attention of a male student. Uninhibited, she often engages in socially inappropriate sexual activities without understanding that it makes her vulnerable. In light of the recent   reported from city’s educational institutions, the school doesn’t want to take her responsibility. Her parents, though, asked her psychiatrist to write in a letter to the school saying she is just fine.
 
 The issue came up on the sidelines of the recent launch of India’s first thematic paper, exploring the need of pleasure and desire among   in Kolkata, at Jadavpur University. The girl’s psychiatrist J Ram said he wrote to the school. “I explained her medical condition and normal sexual needs. The school needs to understand though she has a mental condition, she isn’t  . Because of her condition, she doesn’t have the skills to express her desires in a more socially appropriate fashion,” said Ram. He added the study will help clear the cobwebs blurring society’s vision about sexuality and mental illness.
 
 The paper, ‘Sexual rights of woman with psychosocial disabilities’, debunks the myth that people with disabilities do not need access to pleasure. Contrary to perceptions that women with   are asexual, the paper explains how such women exist as sexual citizens as well.
 
 The paper, authored by Tata Institute of Social Sciences assistant professor Ketki Ranade and mental health rights organization Anjali, was written after a six-month research. In Kolkata, Anjali’s team met 16 women both from government-run mental health institutions and those living with families. Documentation officer and research associate at Anjali Debayani Sen said, “They spoke about their physical longing for their spouses who abandoned them. In other cases, some bitter memories made them shun sexual intimacy. It isn’t performance anxiety, but a form of protest against society.”
 
 Ram said parents are often ill-equipped to deal with such situations. In a year, he gets at least 10 such cases. “I’ve had requests from parents asking if castration or removing the uterus will help,” Ram said.
 
 Ranade said, “A lot needs to change. Right from laws that make ‘unsoundness of mind’ grounds for divorce and annulment to curricula of mental health professionals that treats sexuality as an issue, to family members and caregivers who view such persons as infantile and incapable of healthy sexuality. Above all, we need to create safe spaces where persons living with distress or diagnosable illnesses can talk about their desire, need for relationships, intimacy and sex.”
 
