SRINAGAR: Dressed in a dark green uniform, with a matching hijab and a bright red backpack slung across her shoulders, 17-year-old Insha Mushtaq who lost her vision to pellet injures in the 2016 Kashmir unrest, took a small step towards realising her dream on Wednesday. She resumed school after two long years of trials and tribulations. Hoping to become a professor one day, Insha has started studying Arts at the Special Educational Needs (SEN) department of Delhi Public School, Srinagar. A Srinagar-based NGO,   (CPJ) helped her secure the admission in the school.

  
  
 
 "I am happy to be attending school after a gap of two years. I want to become a political science college teacher," said Insha, whose world plunged into darkness on July 11, 2016, when a volley of pellets hit her in the face while she was peeking out of the window of her house in Sedow village of south Kashmir's   district. The streets in Kashmir at the time were filled with agitated youth protesting violently against the killing of Hizb commander   by the security forces.
 
  
  
 
 Insha, who never let her impairment hamper her education, had appeared for her class X board examination in 2017 with the help of a scribe, barely a few months after she lost her vision. With the indomitable spirit of a survivor, she has moved to Srinagar and is now living with her family in a rented house for her education.
 
  
  
 
 Nadir Ali, the president of CPJ said Insha will study at the SEN department, which also has a vocational training centre. "She will soon become completely independent," he said with a sense of pride. The organisation has paid admission and one year's fee. Ali said the social welfare department of the state government will also pay Rs 2000 every month for her sustenance. Ali said the NGO is conducting various outreach programmes across the Valley to help teenagers get back on their feet. "We address the grievances of the youth by working with victims of violence," he added.
 
  
  
 
 
 
