AHMEDABAD: A   jeweller has filed a complaint with Khadia police alleging that he had been cheated of Rs 42 lakh. According to the complaint, two men claiming to be employees of a Mumbai-based angadia firm, urged him to give the cash for a transaction. The complainant is the relative of a former MLA, police said.

 On Thursday, police arrested two of the four accused in the case and recovered Rs 40.7 lakh. 
 
 The complainant Nikunj Jain, 30, a resident of Orchid Green Society, Shahibaug, has claimed that he has owned   for the past two years. CVG Processors is located on rented premises near Tambu Chowky at Manek Chowk. Jain deals in gold and other precious metals. He was earlier based in Mumbai.
 
 “On April 9, Jain got a call from Jugraj Kantilal Angadia firm based in Mumbai at 11:10 am. The caller identified himself as Mukesh and said he was an acquaintance of Jain’s father. The caller said he wanted Rs 42 lakh to be sent to someone in Ahmedabad and hence was sending an acquaintance named   to the latter’s office. As a mark of identification, he also mentioned a Rs 10 note with a specific number,” said a police official.
 
 Soon after, a person claiming to be Pappu Mistry came to his office and, after giving a Rs 10 currency note, got Rs 42 lakh cash from him. After he left, Jain called   to confirm the receipt. At that time, he got to know that there was no Mukesh working at the office. Alarmed, Jain called both Mukesh and Pappu Minstry, only to find both the phones switched off.
 
 DD Chaudhari, sub-inspector of Khadia police station, said that a team of city crime branch began investigation on the basis of the phone numbers used in the incident and nabbed Indrasinh Rajpurohit, 24, a resident of Gomtipur, and Kavan Thakor, 29, a resident of Kagdapith. “The two were involved in getting the money from Jain. They were found in possession of Rs 40.7 lakh that was received from Jain. We have got names of Modsingh and Madan, both natives of Rajasthan, as masterminds of the case. According to the two people arrested, they had called Jain and had asked for money. We are yet to ascertain how they got information about the money and Jain’s connection with the Mumbai-based Angadia firm,” Chaudhari said.
 
 
