NEW DELHI: After   Modi, his younger brother   has snubbed the investigating agencies by refusing to come back to India. Neeshal, a Belgian national who fled from India in January along with other family members, has written to the   on the same lines as his brother and uncle Mehul Choksi, asserting that “he won’t be able to join   and ED investigations”, sources said. 

 The ED is learnt to have sent summons to Neeshal Modi through email for its money laundering probe. His reply came after Nirav Modi rebuffed CBI summons by informing it that he would not be able to come back to India as he was busy with his business abroad. 
 
 Sources said the agencies have information about the present location of all the accused in the Rs 12,600 crore PNB fraud case, including Nirav, Neeshal and Mehul Choksi, but it can’t be disclosed. The ED has already sought non-bailable warrants against Nirav and Choski, which is being seen as the first step to issue   red corner notice (RCN) against them. 
 
 Meanwhile, CBI on Thursday recovered applications pertaining to letters of undertaking (LoU), allegedly prepared by Nirav Modi and Mehul Choksi, which were hidden in a “chawl” in Mumbai’s Wadala area. Sources said this chawl’s address was used by Nirav and Choksi as the working address for one of their firms. 
 
 CBI on Thursday also arrested former internal chief auditor Bushnubrata Mishra, who was responsible for concurrent audit for 2011-15 at PNB’s   branch in Mumbai. 
 
 While CBI and ED are questioning several corporate executives and bank officials in the case, the government is fiercely making a case to seize assets, companies, trusts and holding companies linked to the fugitive businessmen. 
 
 CBI sources said there are some independent companies linked to Firestar Diamond International, running from several countries, which will also be soon brought under the ambit of the probe. 
 
 Look-out Circulars (LoCs) at the entry-exit points and airports across the country have also been issued against more than 10 senior executives of companies belonging to Nirav and Choksi.
 
