There’s good news for fans of   who will soon be back on-screen in Tollywood. The actor, who is currently shooting for Anil Sharma’s Bollywood film Genius, was in the city recently to sign two big ticket   ventures. While the actor is tight-lipped about the details of these two ventures, he says it was his performance as Omveer aka Oma, the leader of the dreaded Bawariya dacoit gang, in the Karthi-starrer Khakee (Theeran Adhigaaram Ondru in Tamil) that helped him bag two more major roles in Tollywood. 

 
 Abhimanyu, who feels he has matured as an actor, admits that he had a difficult time adjusting to normalcy following his immensely popular role as Bukka Reddy in Rakhta Charitra. The actor says that his role in the film was so deep that it had an impact on his real life persona. “I was getting daily inputs from Ram Gopal Varma for the role of Bukka Reddy. For some time after the film was completed, I became morose and withdrawn. I went to a few birthday parties and used to become very uncomfortable when someone came close to me. There were many such small changes which happened but the incredible thing is that I realised all this only after I came out of it,” says Abhimanyu and adds, “This was the first time something like this had happened to me. As one gains experience, they can handle these sorts of things better.”
 And experience was what probably helped him deal with the role of Oma, and Abhimanyu says that the preparation he underwent was the reason why he was able to pull it off. “We shot for 20 days continuously in Jaisalmer, Rajasthan. I had been given a complete brief of the character. So, the preparation was more from the inside: trying to think like Oma, the body-language etc. I used to sit in the desert and ponder on these things and eventually, things fell in place,” says the graduate from St Stephens College, Delhi.
 
 
 
 So, how does he chill out when he gets a break? “I prefer to spend it with my family. Sometimes, when there is a gap in schedule, my wife joins me with our kids and we go visit places. Otherwise, we go on a vacation when I have the time. I’m very much a family person,” he avers.
 In a career spanning nearly two decades, the majority of his roles have been that of the antagonist, especially in Tollywood. Does it bother him that he’s being typecast? “Absolutely not”, says the Mom actor. 
 He elaborates: “I’m grateful for the opportunities coming my way. My priority is only to live up to the vision of the director. Having said that, roles like Bukka Reddy and Oma are ones in which the directors invested a lot of time and energy in me. Such roles are hard to come by. As for Bollywood, actors are no longer typecast there and I’m happy to be in that phase where the industry is evolving for the better.” Apart from Gadar director Anil Sharma’s Genius in which he is playing the lead role of a RAW agent, Abhimanyu is also doing another Bollywood film with director   which has Arjun Rampal as the lead. “I’m playing a light-hearted role of a young politician, a ward-councillor who is full of himself and throws his weight around. It’s a satire on the religious beliefs of a person,” Abhimanyu said.
 
 
 
 From a model to theatre artiste to television star and now, a major actor in mainstream cinema, Abhimanyu has come a long way. What are his plans for the future? “I’ve stopped making plans a long time back because they never work in my case. Now, I just take each day as it comes. I have two kids aged 9 and 6. Earlier, they were scared of watching me on screen but are now old enough to understand that it’s only acting. In their school, when their friends speak well of me, they come home proudly and tell me: Papa, mera dosth bole ki aap acche actor hai (Dad, my friends told me that you are a very good actor). That’s my only plan: to keep doing good roles and win appreciation,” said Abhimanyu Singh, signing off with a smile. 
 
