KOLKATA:   by one of India’s most famous sculptors – Padma Bhushan recipient Ramkinkar Baij – at Visva-Bharati are still awaiting their bronze casting to begin despite the union HRD ministry having allocated a fund of Rs 8 crore 86 lakh. On Baij’s birth anniversary today, art lovers fear that delaying the preservation work might mean losing them forever.

 
 Last December, it was decided that the project for bronze casting would be carried out by National Gallery of Modern Art (NGMA) in New Delhi. According to  , principal of Kala Bhawan, “The NGMA has formed a committee for this job. Despite being the principal of Kala Bhawan, I wasn’t even kept in the original committee. After I spoke to the vice-chancellor on this issue, I was included there. The fund of Rs 8 crore and 86 lakh has already been allocated.”
 
 Das admitted that there is “an unwanted delay” in starting the work. “Conservation work is in progress. We have had a meeting with NGMA in Delhi. In the first week of June, we are going to have another meeting. The work has to begin soon. A survey has to be done on who will do the casting. Besides, a renowned sculptor has to be entrusted with the job of supervising the work,” Das added.
 
 Incidentally, most of Baij’s works are displayed outside. They were made of laterite pebbles and cement which have easily eroded with time. In the 60s, one of   – “Harvester” – was broken into three pieces while it was being removed from its place. This 1943 work featuring a thresher was Baij’s entry to a global competition called ‘The Unknown Political Prisoner’. That work has been repaired but there is a growing demand is to expedite the casting process. Among the sculptures on display at the Kala Bhawan campus is the famous 1938 sculpture of a Santhal family on the move while carrying their meagre possessions. Then, there is the one titled “Mill Call” – made in 1956 - about a working class family setting out on hearing the siren of a mill. The graceful “Sujata” – sculpted in 1935 – is one of the early instances of Indian natural or environmental sculptures. Then, there is a 1940 work titled “Lampstand” which is regarded as one of the first abstract sculptures in Indian art. “The sanction of the project was completed by December. I’m grateful that the government had approved the budget. This is a national treasure and their casting should be completed before any further deterioration,” said former pro-vice chancellor Swapan Dutta.
 
 However, art historian R Siva Kumar, who had authored a book titled “Ramkinkar Baij”, cautioned that a project like this can’t be “rushed”. “People have been trying to do this since the 80s. There were several unsuccessful attempts to do the casting. We are currently placed in a better position than before to do this work. The government commitment towards this project is heartening. One now has to find out the right people to do this work. That can’t be done in a hurry,” Siva Kumar said.
 
 According to NGMA director-general Adwaita Gadanayak, “The HRD ministry has informed me that the fund is already with Visva-Bharati. We at NGMA will do the planning. Everything will be decided at the June meeting.”
 
 Meanwhile, Das is also hoping to receive funds to get bronze casting done for Baij’s incomplete works. He is looking at the first phase of work to get over by 2019. That will be just in time before Kala Bhawan celebrates its centenary year.
 
 
