Allah Rakha   or ARR is a man of few words. That’s because he lets his music do all the talking. After winning the   in the Best Music Direction and the Best Background Score categories for ‘Kaatru Veliyidai’ and ‘Mom’ respectively, the music maestro, in an exclusive conversation with BT, spoke about why winning the National Award is still special though he has seduced music lovers across the world with his compositions. Excerpts...

  
 
 
  I am really happy. I want to thank Mani Ratnamji (director of ‘Kaatru Veliyidai’) and the team of ‘Mom’ — Srideviji, Boney Kapoorji (producer) and Ravi Udyawar (director).
 
  
 
 
  A film like ‘Mom’ needed to be driven by music. Ravi and I had collaborated on a commercial long time ago and that too, had won a lot of awards. He knew exactly what he wanted for ‘Mom’, but left it to me for my interpretation. I got the idea to compose a song like ‘Muafi Mushkil’ after I saw the film. In some films, background music is like wallpaper and in others, it is a character. It needs to say things, which the film is not saying or wants to say. I have worked with Boneyji and we wanted to collaborate again. In fact, Srideviji flew down from Mumbai to Chennai and told me that I have to do Mom’s BGM. She also said, ‘I want to work with you’. It seems prophetic now. The BGM of   is also my wife’s favourite. When I was in Hollywood last month, she asked my agent there to listen to it. I was surprised, because she is not somebody who says or does anything like this. She screamed with joy when she heard that I had won the award for ‘Mom’. 
 
  
 
 
  The National Award is definitely special because it is awarded by our Government. The jury is credible and they select films, which have been sidelined by other awards. Even ‘Mom’, I would say, was kind of overlooked at award functions. In a way, it feels good that the National Awards jury has recognised the hard work that went into the film. ‘Mom’ requires more exposure for the vision it comes with. 
 
  
 
 
  Whenever I work with Maniji, I feel grateful to him for introducing me to cinema. But it also means that I am shouldering a huge responsibility. I give it a lot of energy. Maniji is open to unconventional ideas and has an open mind. Not everyone is like that. People want tried and tested things, but he encourages something unique. He also has an amazing sensibility as far as music for movies is concerned.He is a reservoir of ideas. You can throw any wild one at him and he will make it organic and usable. He is a great teammate and mentor for me.In his next, ‘Chekka Chivantha Vaanam’ (Tamil), he has yet again surprised us, and we have just finished composing the fifth song for the film. 
 
  
 
 
  I don’t see it like that (laughs). It’s not intended in that manner, but if it happens, that’s good. The film required that kind of a soundscape. The story revolved around an Indian Air Force officer and I have not done such a film before. I have seen a bit of that life when I was perhaps 12 or 13; I would visit the army quarters and play music, as I was part of a show called Wonder Balloon on Doordarshan. So, it was nice to revisit my childhood. They are special people, because they fight for our country. 
 
  
 
 
  That would be belittling everybody else. I did ‘Rockstar’ (2011) with Imtiaz Ali. I have had big hits with directors Shankar and Rajiv Menon as well. Each director gets something new out of me. It depends on what tunes of mine they accept. Having said that, there is no sense of insecurity when I work with Maniji. He doesn't judge or gauge a person based on his success or failure. Others might not want to associate with you if three of your films flop, but he is not like that. He judges people on the basis of the importance they give to the art. That’s what I have learnt from him. 
 
  
 
 
  I have been working on the soundtrack of ‘99 Songs’ for almost four-five years. The final cut is almost ready, and it will have close to 14-15 tracks. We have collaborated with international artistes as well for the soundtrack. There is also ‘Le Musk’. Both these films are making good progress. 
 
  
 
 
  BGM plays a huge role in that film, every reel is packed with music. It will be a one-of-a-kind experience and also a first of sorts. We are trying to do some unique and new things with regard to the 3D visuals being combined with sound. 
 
  
 
 
