LUCKNOW: Uttar   – one of the largest police forces in the world – is all set for a major overhaul in policing and crime control. On one hand, the department has joined hands with a group of professors from   ( ) to train personnel in “Predictive Policing”, on the other it has collaborated with   to improve upon safety and protection of women and children.

 A proactive approach towards tackling crime, “Predictive Policing”, is based on using data analytics to understand crime patterns of a specific region and then initiate action to restrict occurrence of the particular crime. This is in sharp contrast to the existing standards of policing where the men in uniform come into the picture only after the crime is committed. “The idea is to use crime mapping, artificial intelligence and evidence-based models to identify a region where the frequency of a particular type of reported crime is higher and then initiate steps to stop them from happening,” says Director General of Police (DGP) OP Singh, who is the brain behind the initiative.
 
 
 
 
 The department has joined hands with a team of professors at Indiana University to organize training programs and workshops to train officers and personnel from different wings of the state police in analyzing the data in the correct manner and then drawing a blue-print to implement the idea. “Select officers will be trained in analytics who will then get together with researchers and institutes to develop in-house capabilities to transform the state police in a proactive force,” Singh said. The training of police personnel will begin from May and the module is likely to be implemented by the year end.
 
 At the same time, collaborating with UNICEF, the state police have initiated a series of steps for effective control on crime against women and children. “The UNICEF and the state police have decided to launch a special statewide program to educate children, parents and teachers about online safety issues,” Singh said adding that the exercise is aimed at addressing the concerns related to cyber-crime, online bullying and child pornography and Ms Ruth Leano, the UP chief of UNICEF has assured all possible support in this project.
 
 This apart, as many as 22 model child-friendly police stations and juvenile police units will be set up in 22 districts of the state to track child related crimes. The staff at these police stations will be trained to ensure a friendly non-intimidating atmosphere so that children can feel free to seek police help on their own.
 
