Ahmedabad: When the SC on Friday upheld passive   as a fundamental right, it rekindled a sense of stoic hope in  , who four months ago had sought permission for euthanasia for his 12-year-old son,  .

 “It has been excruciating, to see our son die every minute. He gets 10-odd seizures a minute, keeping him in pain for every living second. It is tough for a father to seek death for his child but his suffering prompted me to seek death for him. I learned about the SC order, I am not familiar about the legalities but will write an application to the apex court, the PM as well as the CM, seeking euthanasia for Parth,”   told TOI.
 
 Parth, a resident of Savarkundla in Amreli district, suffers from subacute sclerosing panencephalitis (SSPE), a rare neurological disorder, which causes spasms or jerks and the patient loses control over movement. This viral disease often represents itself in dementia or personality alterations and the patient’s behaviour turns abnormal and erratic.
 
 Parth contracted this illness after a spell of high fever in July 2016. While the fever broke after a few days, the seizures continue unabated. In fact, five months ago he used to suffer a seizure once every 10 minutes, the frequency has now risen to 10 seizures a minute, his parents said.
 
 In November 2017, Dinesh wrote to the PM and President, seeking death for his bedridden son who cannot eat, speak and even move. The letter led to the   arranging free medical treatment for Parth at AIIMS, Delhi.
 
 “Parth was given interferon injections, but they did not really help. He was then brought to   for treatment but no treatment really worked. Finally, we brought him home,” said Dinesh, who left his job as a diamond polisher and currently sells packets of dal and rice to industrial workers, so he can work from home and look after his son.
 
 “Either my wife of I have to be with Parth 24x7, as there is always fear of him falling due to the constant seizures,” said Dinesh, who also has an older daughter. “May God not curse anybody with debilitating diseases but when such aberrations happen, the right to die will help end misery for which medical science has no answer,” Dinesh said. 
 
 “SSPE is a disease where the patient neither live nor dies. The SC verdict allowing passive euthanasia will give relief to such patients and their relative from mental, psychological and financial distress,” said Dr  , head of neurosurgery department at Civil Hospital. 
 
 
