BHUBANESWAR: Dogged by a   in recent past, the   is out to salvage its image. The state police has decided to set some targets on different heads for   to prevent crimes and expedite investigations. 

  We will soon assign heavy tasks to SPs. They will be given a wide range of targets to complete investigations of pending cases, execution of pending non-bailable warrants and crackdown on traffic violators among others. The message is quite clear perform or perish, a senior officer told TOI. 
 
 The Odisha Police has been hogging headlines for wrong reasons ever since the Kunduli rape survivor committed suicide on January 22. Already charged with hushing up the Kunduli case, police drew flak when some people misbehaved with the woman, who hurled eggs at Naveen s function in Balasore. Last week s mob violence following custodial death at Sambalpur and attack by some BJP supporters at the residence of IAS officer V K Pandian, private secretary to chief minister  , too invited criticism for the police from several quarters. 
 
 Conduct of the police also came under scanner for the past few days after their alleged misdeeds were caught on camera by alert bystanders. A few days ago a video of a sub-inspector getting thrashed by Balianta villager on city outskirts went viral on social networking sites. 
 
 The cop invited the wrath for allegedly misbehaving with a woman. This apart, the commissionerate police was left red-faced when video of a sub-inspector, lying unconscious in an inebriated condition on pavement here recently went viral on internet. 
 
 As the issues like Kunduli, assault on female egg attacker and custodial death already came as a shot in the arms of the opposition parties ahead of Bijepur by-election, police are jittery as another issue, if crops up against it, at this crisis time may land the government in more trouble. 
 
 Desperation of the police to go for image makeover was evident on Tuesday when director general of police R P Sharma asked SPs to take on criminals and mining mafias. Sharma said the SPs have been asked to strengthen their intelligence network and improve response mechanism to crimes. 
 
 
