GHAZIABAD: At least two men were shot after a brawl broke out in an eatery in   late on Tuesday night over non-payment of bills. The eatery owner Amit, who allegedly opened fire during the brawl, and an accomplice have been arrested.

 The shooting occurred in Om Sai Hotel located near Ghukna Mod on   at 11.30 pm on Tuesday. 
 
 The men who sustained gunshot wounds have been identified as Sandip Pal (22) and Surendra Singh (25). Sandip had visited the eatery with his eldest brother, Gaurav (32), for dinner. Gaurav runs an eatery, Moradabadi chicken corner, near Old Bus Stand. Surendra Singh, who works at Gaurav’s eatery, was with them. They were also accompanied by one  , who runs a model wine shop in Raj Nagar.
 
 Sandip’s elder brother, Ramji Pal (25), told TOI that the argument ensued after the group of men had finished their dinner.
 
 “The group was attacked with rods and sticks. Along with Amit and his friend Imraan, there were around 8-10 men who attacked Sandip and his friends. Amit then fired with a .315 bore country-made revolver. The brawl seems have resulted from a dispute over clearing of bills. Gaurav and Rahul sustained fractures in the assault,” Ramji Pal, who runs a transport business on Meerut Road, said.
 
 The injured were rushed to Yashoda Hospital in Nehru Nagar. According to doctors at the hospital, Sandip had been shot in his abdomen while Surendra Singh suffered injuries in his legs due to shards of a bullet.
 
 “Sandeep has been admitted to the ICU after a surgery. Surendra Singh was taken to another hospital for treatment. Gaurav Pal also underwent a surgery for his fractured arm,” hospital spokesperson   said.
 
 Family members of Rahul took him to another hospital to treat his fractures.
 
 An FIR was registered at   police station on Tuesday night. Amit and Imraan have been named as accused in the FIR under IPC sections including 307 (attempt to murder), 323 (assault) and 147 (rioting).
 
 “Amit had dined at Gaurav’s eatery around three days ago with his friends but didn’t pay the bill. Gaurav and his friends were nursing a grievance over this. On Tuesday night, an argument resulted over payment of bills after Gaurav, Sandip and others dined at Amit’s eatery. This resulted in the brawl. Amit and Imraan were arrested on Tuesday,” said Sihani Gate SHO Vinod Kumar Pandey.
 
 
