SHIMLA: The Himachal Pradesh   on Monday scrapped the scheme for refund of tax to two gold refineries in the state and ordered a vigilance probe into alleged criminal conspiracy to defraud the state of legitimate tax dues.

 The two firms are required to deposit total tax arrears to the tune of Rs 14.11 crore under HP Tax on entry of Goods into Local Area Act, 2010.
 
 During the cabinet meeting chaired by chief minister  , it was also decided that the incentive scheme for revival of sick industrial units in the state would also be investigated.
 
 The cabinet decided to order an inquiry into the approvals accorded for the construction of circuit house building at   and hospital building at Kandaghat in   district, the work on which was reportedly started without the prior approval of council of ministers by the previous   government, thereby flouting the rules of business and instructions of the government.
 
 It gave its approval to fill up 200 posts of ayurvedic medical officers in the ayurveda department on a contractual basis. Hundred posts will be filled batch wise and the rest through direct recruitment to cope with the shortage of ayurvedic doctors.
 
 It approved extension of guarantee support of state government of Rs 325 crore in favour of HP State Cooperative Agriculture and Rural Development Bank Limited up to March 31 next year to facilitate giving loans to the farmers.
 
 The cabinet accorded its approval to rename Government Ayurvedic Health Centre Salah Jandrah in Kangra district after martyr Jagdish Singh Rana as a tribute to him.
 
 The cabinet also gave its approval to the Excise Policy 2018-19. The policy aims to balance the aspirations of citizens, consumers, manufactures, suppliers, bottlers, wholesalers, retailers and the government. A major emphasis has been given to streamline the supply of liquor from manufacturers to the wholesalers and retailers.
 
 The policy shall help the state to earn revenue of Rs 1552.88 crore approximately for 2018-19, an addition of Rs 271.33 crore over the estimated revenue for the year 2017-18 with overall growth of 21.17%.
 
 In terms of ease of doing business, the conditions for securing source license have been liberalized and numbers of excise levies have been reduced.
 
 As far as the retailers are concerned, the conditions regarding the unlifted minimum guaranteed quota have been relaxed, thus giving a big relief to them. Also the security amount fixed for the retailers at the time of allotment has been reduced from 18% to 13%. This shall ensure availability of sufficient working capital to invest in the business with the retailers.
 
 The cabinet has approved allotment of retail vends by a transparent draw of lots system this year with aim to achieve sustained growth. It has further approved the policy for establishment of microbrewery for beer manufacturing in hotels, restaurants independently which will boost tourism in the state.
 
 
