HYDERABAD: Heavy rainfall in parts of the city for nearly two hours on Friday, brought down mercury levels to 24 degree Celsius by 8.30pm. The maximum rainfall of 52.5mm was recorded at Gananka Bhavan in Khairatabad, followed by Nampally which recorded 38.5mm.

 At Balsetty Khet playground in Darushifa, an electrical pole caught fire when a branch fell on it. At many places, including   at  , under the Aramgarh Railway Bridge, Rajendra Nagar and Road Number 12, Banjara  , motorists were seen wading through knee deep water.
 
 The   (GHMC) had to deploy emergency teams at various points to clear uprooted trees and water logging.
 
 While Asmangadh received rainfall of 32 mm, Maitrivanam 26.6 mm and Pashamylaram in RC Puram 24.5mm, areas such as Monda market, Bolarum and Viratnagar received no rainfall.
 
 According to the India Meteorological Department, the rainfall was primarily due to the formation of cumulonimbus clouds over the city. Weathermen attributed the change in weather conditions to thunderstorm activity.
 
  also issued a weather warning that thunderstorms accompanied by gusty winds were very likely to occur on Saturday as well.
 
 With the sudden downpour bringing traffic to a grinding halt as many commuters parked their vehicles under flyovers and trees to protect themselves from the onslaught of the hailstorm and gusty winds, those who had lined up weekend plans were forced to cool their heels in traffic snarls.
 
 “Due to hailstorm and strong winds, I could not drive any further. I had to stop and wait till the situation improved,” said  , a techie who was stuck at a bus stop in Banjara Hills.
 
 Even those who opted for the Metro rail to avoid getting stuck in traffic complained about the trains running slower than the usual.
 
 However, others rejoiced at the prospect of the downpour doing its bit to replenish the ground water table in the city ahead of summer. Many denizens also took to social media sites to express their happiness at the unseasonal rain cooling down things.
 
