CHENNAI: Much like their campaigns so far,   men and women experienced contrasting emotions on the fourth day of the 68th National Basketball Championship at Nehru Indoor Stadium here on Saturday. While the Tamil Nadu men battled hard before beating Indian Railways 95-85 to claim their fourth consecutive win in Group B, the fortunes of the TN women’s team seem to have plummeted after a victorious start. They suffered their second consecutive defeat in Group A on Saturday, going down to Kerala 53-69.

 
 It was always going to be an uphill task for the TN eves against the defending champions, who have got their campaign back on track after a defeat to   in their first match. For the women from TN to now automatically qualify for the quarterfinals, they will have to beat a rampant Karnataka side on Sunday. Otherwise, they could end up fourth in their group and might have to come through the playoffs to reach the last-eight stage. In the first quarter itself, Kerala ran away with a 23-8 lead, giving the home side little chance of a comeback. 
 
 To TN’s credit, they produced a much better showing at the start of the second quarter, staying tighter to their Kerala counterparts and not letting them make merry with acres of space. As a consequence, both teams scored exactly ten points each in the second quarter. Although the difference between the two sides remained marginal in the third and fourth quarters, the damage had already been done by then as illustrated by the resigned look of TN coach   towards the end. Kerala coach Antony Stephen, on the other hand, couldn’t be more pleased after a lukewarm start to the tournament.
 
 “In our first match against Karnataka, we weren’t as well prepared as we would have liked. Now, that’s not the case. We had the match in the bag today at the end of the second quarter itself. We relaxed a bit in the third and fourth quarters and did not press like we normally do,” Stephen assessed.
 
 The Tamil Nadu men, meanwhile, will be going into the quarters full of confidence after staying unbeaten through the group stage. Up against Indian Railways, they were given their sternest challenge so far and yet came through relatively comfortably. Aravind Annadurai was the star for the hosts with 23 points.
 
 “It’s good to come through tough challenges. After beating Punjab on Friday, this was another good match to play. Overall, I’m very happy with how the team is shaping up. We have played four games in four days and will now have a much-needed break before the knockouts,” TN coach Milan Opacic said after their win. 
 
 Karnataka men also continued their impressive run beating Odisha 78-40 to notch up their fourth win in as many matches and finish on top of Group A. In another Group A clash, defending champions   men brushed aside Kerala with ease. As a result, they sealed their place in the quarters starting from Monday.
 
