NEW DELHI: Just two months after ration shops in the city went digital to reduce corruption, the Delhi cabinet on Tuesday approved a system of doorstep delivery of rations that will increase the human interface. Deputy chief minister   said the proposal will be sent to the lieutenant governor for his approval.

 Delhi has 72 lakh ration card holders who have been getting their subsidised rations from a network of 2,254 fair price shops. Notorious for siphoning off rations, these shops were made to start using electronic Point of Sale devices (e-POS) from January 1 this year. However, the proposed doorstep delivery will increase dependence on manpower to distribute essentials like grains and sugar among the beneficiaries, many of whom live in slums.
 
 The government says some of the intended beneficiaries do not get their rations when the e-POS system fails to read their biometrics. The fate of the contractor hired to maintain the e-POS machines and monitor the distribution of rations is now uncertain.
 
 The proposed switch to doorstep delivery will not be easy as e-POS was implemented after a cabinet decision duly approved by the LG. Now the previous decision will have to be annulled with the LG’s approval.
 
 Chief secretary Anshu Prakash and other senior bureaucrats attended the cabinet meeting chaired by chief minister  . Later, during a press conference, Sisodia described the decision as a “major transformation of the existing PDS system.” He said the system is riddled with corruption, theft at different levels, erratic functioning of ration shops and dilution of the quality of rations.
 
 “The path of the scheme has been full of hurdles. Even in the cabinet note which was finally approved, enough attempts were made by people with vested interests to obstruct the proposal,” Sisodia said.
 
 Last week, Kejriwal had blamed a “deep nexus” between some bureaucrats and the “ration mafia”, for “resistance” to the home delivery scheme. Sisodia had alleged that officers working under the influence of the ration mafia were delaying it.
 
 “The scheme is related to food for the poor. I want to urge the LG to not obstruct it on the basis of comments by some officers,” Sisodia said.
 
 The delivery will be done by a private company selected after bidding. “The modalities for packing, monitoring the quality of the rations, and ensuring hassle-free delivery at the doorstep would be worked out in the process of implementation,” a government official said.
 
 This decision comes amid the ongoing tussle between the political executive and the bureaucracy in Delhi. AAP MLAs have been claiming that ration was the point of dispute between them and chief secretary Anshu Prakash on the night the latter was allegedly assaulted at the CM’s residence.
 
 Unlike last week’s meeting, security personnel were not stationed outside the meeting hall. Although the atmosphere seemed cordial, officers said they will continue to boycott meetings with the political executive while attending cabinet meetings that are necessary for governance. Even on Tuesday, officers at the secretariat and in field offices observed their daily five-minute silence in protest against the alleged assault on the chief secretary.
 
