GURUGRAM: A 45-year-old worker was   and three others were injured in a make-shift shelter at a   in Sector 59 around 10.30am on Wednesday.

 Abhilakh Singh, who worked as a gardener, was in the shelter with three other   when a short circuit led to sparks in sockets and appliances. The four men ran towards the door to save themselves but received electric shocks on coming into contact with the iron door.
 
 All four were rushed to  , where Singh was declared brought dead. The three other men are undergoing treatment and are said to be out of danger.
 
 All four men had moved to the city for work from Kunjpur village in Firozpur district of  . Singh’s wife Raj Kumari, who reached Gurugram from Kunjpur on Thursday, lodged a complaint with police. An FIR is yet to be filed. The SHO of Badshapur police station said the investigation was under way.
 
 Raj Kumari, along with several villagers who accompanied her, was still waiting for her husband’s body to be handed over at the time of writing this report on Thursday evening. “I was told there was a short circuit and even the walls of the shelter had started emanating current. It also led to a fire and as soon as my husband tried to run out to save himself, he got electrocuted,” said Raj Kumari.
 
 Singh was employed as a gardener by a third-party contractor on the project site which belongs to a leading developer. Several workers and villagers gathered outside the Sector 59 police post on Thursday for negotiations with the contractor about the compensation to be given to the family. 
 
 “He has left behind seven children and they are too young to earn. His wife needs financial assistance and we have asked the contractor to pay a big amount,” said Munish Kumar, one of the villagers leading the negotiations.
 
 Singh, who was a farmer, came to Gurugram only 20 days ago, in search of better wages. Raj Kumari said they had argued over his decision but Singh had told her he had never stepped out of his village and wanted to see a little more of the world. “I had no choice but to let him go. He thought this job would bring in more money but what good is a job that took him away,” Raj Kumari said, as she stood outside the police post.
 
 She is tense about the future of their three daughters and four sons. “My eldest child is 16 years old and the youngest is just two years,” said Raj Kumari. The eldest, a daughter, is married. Raj Kumari herself falls ill frequently. “If someone can take care of their education and ensure they do not die of hunger, I will not ask for anything more,” she said, waiting for negotiations on the compensation to be settled.
 
 
