LUDHIANA: Once forced to attend classes on mats and under a leaking roof, students of Government Primary School, Jandiali, are not as uncomfortable anymore. Their school, which falls under Ludhiana I block of the district’s education circle, has won two prizes under the Centre’s ‘Swachh Bharat Swachh Vidyalaya’ initiative.

 Swachh Vidyalaya is a Union minister of human resource initiative aimed at improving hygiene at school, inculcating clean habits in children, and ensuring there are separate toilets for boys and girls at all schools. A team of The Times of India visited the school on Saturday and saw the transformation. The premises are vibrant and a quote by Nobel laureate   welcomes all who enter through the main gate: “A pen, a book, a child, a teacher can change the world.”
 
 The school’s head teacher, Mohinder Kaur, credits a junior colleague,   (42), and villagers for the transformation. “With the consecutive efforts of Narinder, villagers started helping us. On every function, be it a marriage or bhog ceremony, an announcement was made in which villagers would ask for donations for the school.”
 
 A former national-level handball player, Narinder raised about Rs 30 lakh from donors and contributed Rs 4 lakh form his own pocket to transform the school. The state government recognised his efforts by honouring him on Teachers’ Day.
 
 In July 2006, when Narinder joined the school, it had only three classrooms — all with leaking roofs and next to negligible infrastructure. As the school’s height is lower than other parts of the village, its ground would be accumulated with water every time it rained, while leaking roofs made it difficult inside classrooms too. “The school’s condition disheartened me. I approached some villagers for help, but to no avail. I was more disappointed when the panchayat did not help us. However, when our students excelled in academics and sports, we again approached the panchayat and it agreed to pitch in,” recalls Narinder.
 
 Narinder first focused on levelling the school’s height so that there was no waterlogging during rains and to build classrooms. In 2007, 2008 and 2009, the school received Rs 1.7 lakh, Rs 1.2 lakh and Rs 2.63 lakh , respectively, under Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan (SSA). “The panchayat helped us level the school’s height. Also, a villager, Kulwant Singh, promised Rs 1 lakh. All our work was in full swing when Kulwant died and we could not get the money. All my hopes were dashed,” added Singh.
 
 In that time, when Narinder was losing hope, his wife  , a private school’s teacher, helped him by giving Rs 1.76 lakh from her savings. “My wife had changed her job and was paid dues of Rs 1.76 lakh. I asked her if I can use the money and she agreed. She never asked for that money back ever,” says Narinder.
 
 The school building was reconstructed with six classrooms. Further, the gurudwara committee of Jandiali Sarav Shiksha Abhiyan helped the school with about Rs 6 lakh. The head teacher said some villagers now keep donating money to the school every year. “We approached some factory owners, like Nexo Industry and  , who sponsored our e-library, three blocks of washroom, and two rooms,” said Mohinder.
 
 By the way, Government Primary School, Jandiali, is the only primary school to have   (JCR) in which all necessary medical aids are provided to students.
 
 
