GHAZIABAD: With the   set for opening any time soon, the focus has shifted to the under-construction bridge across Hindon canal at Kanawani along CISF-Vasundhara Road in  . Construction work on the bridge, undertaken by the irrigation department with funds from GDA, is less than 50% complete.

 The 52-metre-long bridge along the CISF-Vasundhara Road was conceptualised by GDA to beat traffic jams after the up and down ramps of the elevated road, also constructed at this location, are thrown open for vehicles. At present, vehicles from Vasundhara moving to NH-24 and vice-versa converge at this point apart from those that reach the bridge after travelling along various roads running parallel to the Hindon canal.
 
 The elevated road is awaiting clearance from NGT after it was given a green signal by the State Environment Impact Assessment Authority (SEIAA) on March 8. Residents of Indirapuram have asked GDA not to open the ramps of the elevated road till work on the bridge is completed.
 
 “The two ramps that allow vehicles to ascend and descend from Indirapuram should be opened for traffic only after construction of the bridge is completed. The intersection is along routes that are mostly used by office-goers from Vasundhara and Indirapuram. The intersection remains jam-packed during peak hours. There will be complete traffic gridlock if access to the elevated road is provided from this intersection without completing the bridge,” Alok Kumar, president, Federation of Apartment Owners’ Association (FedAOA), told TOI.
 
 The irrigation department began construction work on the 10.5-metre-wide and three-lane bridge in December 2016. Work on the second half of the bridge is yet to begin. The total cost of the bridge is Rs 17 crore. “Work on the bridge has not been held up due to paucity of funds. There are two parallel pipelines, for transporting sewage and treated Ganga water, respectively, running along the embankment of the bridge. The municipal corporation has been delaying shifting of the pipelines despite promising several deadlines. We have set ourselves a June deadline to complete the work,” K P Singh, executive engineer, UP irrigation department, said.
 
 The federation wrote to the GDA demanding that the ramps shall be opened only in June after work on the bridge is completed. “We are examining the matter. A final decision is likely to be taken early next week,” district magistrate & GDA vice-chairperson   said.
 
 
