NEW DELHI: The special cell on Monday seized   and busted an international syndicate that was selling smuggled drugs to city youths and even shipping them to foreign countries.

 According to DCP (special cell) P S Kushwah, Oliver — a key player of the racket — was arrested with four kilograms of the drug and efforts are on to nab the other accused, including two  .
 
 Elaborating on the operation, Kushwah said that a special team led by ACP Attar Singh was formed to bust the inflow of heroin into the capital. “During surveillance, it was found that members of this cartel were involved in supplying high-grade heroin in Delhi-NCR and Punjab. Our efforts of more than three months resulted in the identification of Oliver as the kingpin of this racket,” Kushwaha added.
 
 Oliver lived in west Delhi’s Uttam Nagar and was in touch with several Afghan mules, cops found. On May 1, they received a tipoff that Oliver would come to deliver a consignment to his aide. Subsequently, a trap was laid at Majnu ka Tila and the suspect was nabbed with the consignment. Some travel documents were also recovered from the accused, which are being verified, cops added.
 
 During interrogation, the accused revealed that his Afghan contacts smuggled the drugs into Pakistan and pushed it into India through J&K and other borders. Using courier services, Oliver then sent the contraband to countries like UK, France,  , apart from distributing them to city peddlers who catered to businessmen and students. A chunk of the heroin was also sent to Punjab.
 
 Oliver came to India from Nigeria in 2013 and initially lived in Mumbai. He later shifted to Delhi and got involved in drug trade. “Even after the expiry of his visa, he did not return to his country and continued to stay illegally in India and sell drugs. Initially, he worked as carrier for his fellow Nigerians, involved in drug supply in the capital. Over the last two years, he developed his own network of drug supply,” Kushwaha added.
 
 The cell has recovered more than 85 kgs of high-grade heroin in the last one year, indicating the rising demand for the drug.
 
 
