BENGALURU: Ballari Road is the most accident-prone thoroughfare in the city. Statistics back this. Bengaluru traffic police records show the busy road witnessed the maximum number of accidents (143) last year.
 
  
 It is followed by Old Madras Road in KR Puram traffic police limits which recorded 78 accidents,   (75) in Peenya, ITPL Main Road (70) in Whitefield, Mahadevapura Ring Road (45) in K R Puram, Hosur Road (36) in Electronics City, Outer Ring Road (32) in HAL and   (23) in Kumaraswamy Layout.
 
 Based on the data, traffic police have identified the most accident-prone roads. While Ballari Road tops the charts since it comes under three traffic police station limits — Hebbal, Yelahanka and   — Old Madras Road is also another vulnerable stretch.
 
 Experts say the absence of pedestrian facilities, nonfunctional traffic signals, rash driving and shortage of traffic personnel are the primary reasons for accidents on these stretches. They feel plugging the gaps will reduce the number considerably.
 
 Additional commissioner of police (traffic) R Hithendra said most of these vulnerable roads are designed to be signalfree corridors. “So most of them don’t have pedestriancrossing facilities or pelican signals. The maximum number of victims of these accidents are pedestrians and twowheeler riders. In some areas, lack of proper lighting leads to accidents,” he explained, adding they are taking up the issues with stakeholders, including   and BBMP, to make the stretches safe for both walkers and motorists.
 
 Another reason for frequent accidents on Ballari Road is the regular movement of traffic to and from the   (KIA). Also, due to lack of traffic cops, interceptors and CCTV cameras, monitoring of overspeeding vehicles is inadequate.
 
 “Traffic police are mainly focusing on enforcement in city limits. Rash and drunk driving are rampant are on these stretches, particularly at night when there are fewer vehicles. Many youngsters are also involved in drag racing on these thoroughfares at night since traffic is less,” said a traffic expert.
 
 
 
 
 Traffic police records show the number of accidents in the city has reduced from 7,506 in 2016 to 5,064 in 2017. This has been attributed to reduction in vehicle speed in central business district (CBD) areas during peak hours and the increase in enforcement drives against traffic offenders.
 
 
