JAIPUR: In a   operation conducted in  , the pre-conception pre-natal diagnostic technique (PCPNDT) cell officials arrested one person for his alleged involvement in revealing sex of fetus on Sunday. The   have seized records of the diagnostic centre and also imposed restriction on use of sonogrpahy machine. Besides, the officials are investigating the role of the owner of the diagnostic centre and sonologist, who conducted the ultrasound on the pregnant woman. 

 State appropriate authority (PCPNDT) Navin Jain said one Imran had been arrested who helped the woman in getting sonography and revealed sex of the fetus to the pregnant woman. It was the 115th decoy operation conducted by the PCPNDT cell so far since PCPNDT Act came into effect. 
 
 Jain said that they have also recovered Rs 15,000 given to the agent Imran for conducting the test for sex determination.The diagnostic centre is situated at Sadulganj, where the sonography was conducted. The arrested accused will be presented before the court on Monday at special PCPNDT court, Bikaner. 
 
 Chief medical health officer (Bikaner) Dr Devendra Chaudhary said for the past one month, they were monitoring the activities of the accused. Officials said that the accused was in contact with diagnostic centres as he supplies equipment and other items used for diagnostic tests. 
 
 For conducting the decoy operation, PCPNDT officials in Bikaner took help of PCPNDT officials in Sikar. Officials in   contacted Imran and expressed willingness for knowing sex of fetus of a pregnant woman. The accused agreed for the test. He asked them to reach railway station at 9am. The PCPNDT officials from Sikar disguised as his client reached railway station along with a pregnant woman. The officials claimed that they gave Rs15,000 to Imran, who took along with him pregnant woman on his bike to Sadulpur’s OK Diagnostic Centre. 
 
 PCPNDT cell officials said that he first took the pregnant woman to a gynaecologist, who advised the pregnant woman to undergo sonography. Imran took her to OK Diagnostic Centre and after sonography, he came out of the centre and allegedly revealed sex of the foetus to the pregnant woman. 
 
 The pregnant woman signalled the PCPNDT team, which arrested the accused and recovered the money given to him. 
 
 
