NAGPUR: Two days after the Central Pollution Control Board ( ) wrote to over 400 power units of the country, extending the already-missed   to comply with environmental norms, its parent ministry — the Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change ( ) — approached the Supreme Court to pass an “appropriate order” for the same.

 Not only did the move appear very surreptitious, the environment protection agencies also seemed to have paid no attention to the disastrous effect it would have on the millions of lungs which would be breathing the toxic pollutants emitted by these plants for another five years. 
 
 On December 11 last year, CPCB wrote to the thermal power units informing them about the deadline extension. “Based on the recommendation from the ministry of power, the deadline to reduce emission of pollutants mercury, particulate matter and oxides of nitrogen and sulphur has been extended,” CPCB’s member secretary A Sudhakar had said at a recent press meet in Delhi. 
 
 As per a notification issued by the environment ministry on December 7, 2015, the deadline for meeting the emission standards was December 7, 2017. “There will be no compromise on the standards but the power ministry had cited investment problems, especially for installing a flu-gas desulphurization ( ). We have kept the option of revising the deadline again,” added Sudhakar.
 
 Not giving a uniform deadline to all, the board did a case-wise study of action plans and allotted different deadlines to different units — giving time till 2022.
 
 On December 13 last year, the environment ministry filed an affidavit in the apex court in an ongoing case, informing that the thermal   would need another five years to meet the emission standards due to “practical difficulties”. In it, the ministry sought the “appropriate order”.
 
 Castigated by many for “playing safe”, the ministry did not clarify if it would be amending its notification nor allegedly did it inform the court about an ongoing case in the National Green Tribunal (NGT) regarding non-compliance of the set standards.
 
 TOI made attempts to speak to MoEFCC minister Dr Harsh Vardhan over two days. But he was not available for comments. 
 
 The unexplained urgency that the board showed in succouring the power industry is, according to legal experts, “unlawful”. “The notification of 2015 was issued under the provisions of the Environment (Protection) Act, 1986, and the power to make any   is vested with the central government. CPCB cannot extend the deadline unless the notification has been amended by the ministry,” says environmental lawyer Ritwick Dutta.
 
 According to experts and environmentalists, the ministry must choose between generating power and safeguarding public health. “The legislations are not just for environment but for public   too. This is not about protecting tigers, trees or elephants. Emission norms are integral to improving health of the citizens. Why is there such a great sympathy for power plants,” asks Dutta.
 
 As part of some earlier communications with the power plants, the board had reportedly stated that a time frame of two years was reasonable enough to figure out finances, technology and phased implementation of the emission standards. So what made CPCB take an about turn?
 
 “It is definitely an influence of the strong power industry lobby, which does not allow state or central machinery to align with public health. Pollution is still not a public health agenda, the lobby thinks it can keep killing people and make profits,” says environment activist Sunil Dahiya, who had filed a petition in the National Green Tribunal (NGT) seeking a direction towards compliance with the standards provided in the December 2015 notification.
 
 In an example of how changes in existing norms are to be made, Dahiya says that the 2015 notification also stipulated a water consumption limit of 2.5 metre cube per megawatt hour. “But when the ministry wanted to amend this limit, it prepared a revised draft notification and kept it open for public comments for almost a month, seeking opinion if the limit should be increased to 3 metre cube per megawatt hour. This is how you technically make a change, but it did not happen in the case of air emissions,” he said.
 
 The information regarding the extension of deadline is not available on the website of the CPCB or the ministry. “It is like a private communication between the power industry and CPCB based on which they formulated their own timelines,” says Dahiya, with the ministry too “trying to keep the information away from both the courts where the matter was being heard”. 
 
 While experts are not sure if the ministry will agree to the board’s move, it is certainly at fault for not taking any action against plants which missed the deadlines. “Instead of punishing the power units, the authorities are going out of the way to favour them, that too illegally. Under any law, the board has no power to change what is written in the notification,” says environment activist Debi Goenka, who has done extensive research on pollution caused by thermal power plants.
 
 As reported by TOI earlier, the power units which were backed by the ministry of power had demanded an extension citing financial and technical hurdles. According to some units, the FGD can cost around Rs330 crores for one unit of 660MW. “It is a huge amount after all and consumers will have to bear the burden of hike in power tariff,” is what they had claimed.
 
 Dahiya contests this through the World Bank Report, which states that the annual cost of environmental degradation in India amounts to about Rs3.75 trillion, equivalent to 5.7% of the Gross Domestic Product (GDP). “The particulate pollution results in serious health consequences amounting to up to 3% of India’s GDP,” he adds.
 
 Though many power units questioned the need of an FGD as “Indian coal has less sulphur content”, Dahiya says despite this the sulphur dioxide emissions from units are quite high. “At many places, they are three-to-four times higher than the permissible limits,” he adds. 
 
 On many thermal power units initiating the tendering process for installing pollution-control equipment, Dutta asks, “Why didn’t they do it when the notification was issued. The order for installing an equipment like FGD should have been placed well in advance, rather than waiting till the last minute.”
 
 Questioning the new deadline of March 2022, Dahiya says why didn’t all the units get an extension of only another two years during which the agencies should have closely monitored the efforts taken by these units towards meeting the prescribed standards.
 
 The fate of the “ministry’s double standards” now lies in the hand of judiciary, says an environment expert not wanting to be named. “Now, since MOEFCC has approached the Supreme Court, a lot will depend on how it justifies why the existing norms were not followed, and why should an extension be given. The ministry has never been serious about the issue,” he says. 
 
 
