PATNA: The nationwide bandh on Monday against the alleged dilution of the SC and ST Act (Prevention of Atrocities) had its echo in the state legislative assembly with opposition members storming into the well, forcing the adjournment of the   just 12 minutes after it assembled.

 On March 20, the   in a ruling ordered against arrests and registration of criminal cases till investigations into complaints under the Act.
 
 The RJD and   members apart, even ruling JD (U) MLAs Shyam Rajak and Ratnesh Sada raised slogans in support of dalits in the assembly and joined the human chain formed by Congress legislators outside the House in solidarity with those opposing the Supreme Court’s order. 
 
 “The SC and ST Act is aimed at preventing atrocities against vulnerable sections of the society. Dilution of this Act has frightened the two communities,” Rajak told the Chair and suggested that a resolution be passed urging Parliament to make the Act unassailable by placing it in the 9th Schedule of the Constitution.
 
 Speaker Vijay Kumar Choudhary unsuccessfully pleaded with the opposition members that raising the issue in the state assembly was not justified as the Centre was in the process of filing a review petition in the apex court. ”The review petition is just an ‘eyewash’... Such patchworks were not going to protect the interests of the SCs and STs,” Rajak retorted.
 
 When Choudhary failed to convince the members, he adjourned the proceedings till 2pm.
 
 Leader of opposition Tejashwi Prasad Yadav said the state assembly must stand in solidarity with the the Bharat bandh sponsors. “This House should pass a resolution urging the Centre to bring an ordinance to provide immediate relief to the affected social groups,” he said.
 
 Talking to the media on the assembly premises later, Tejashwi said the Centre was trying to gag the voice of dalits and intended to deprive dalit children of their rights.
 
 The state legislative council, on the other hand, passed by voice vote two bills — the Bihar Electricity Duty Bill 2018 and the Bihar State Higher Education Council Bill 2018 — even as RJD members staged a walkout from the Upper House against the alleged dilution of the SC and ST Act.
 
 
