KOCHI: The parent of the student who had alleged of being given a wrong question paper for the Class X board examination has questioned CBSE’s allegation that she brought her brother’s question paper of 2016.

 
 In a reply affidavit filed by the parent through advocate  , it is pointed out that the student was studying in Class VIII when her brother took the board exams and there is no chance of being able to come to the exam hall with such a question paper.
 
 “If the petitioner was writing the examination using a different question (paper), she ought to have brought (it) into the examination hall in spite of thorough checking by the school authorities. The superintendent or teachers have not detected any such papers that was being brought by the petitioner into the examination hall during the course of body examination,” said the affidavit by the parent.
 
  had also alleged that the student did not complain about being given a wrong question paper. Responding to it, the parent has informed the court that the student became aware of being given a wrong question paper only when she discussed answers with classmates and friends after coming out of the examination hall. Therefore, CBSE’s contention is not sustainable, the affidavit said.
 
 It was also alleged by CBSE that the student could not secure high marks in earlier exams such as the model test. The parent contends that the student could secure pass marks in majority of the exams. Yet another allegation raised by CBSE was that the student was copying answers. Replying to it, the affidavit said, “If the petitioner was copying the answers from the question paper to the answer book, the invigilator ought to have noticed such practice within the examination hall. However, the petitioner had written same answer in the question paper supplied to her so as to enable her to verify whether it is correct or not. In the absence of any detection of such a malpractice by the petitioner within the examination hall by the invigilators, the allegations contained in the said paragraph is not sustainable.” 
 
 
