JALANDHAR: It seems all is not well among alliance partners   with the former not happy with the way the latter is running the coalition government at the Centre. The anguish of his party became evident with SAD’s   member   saying that the ‘Vajpayee touch’ was required to run the coalition. However, he quickly added that the party does not want to rock the boat and wishes to continue with the alliance. 

 Speaking to TOI over phone from Delhi, Gujral, who is a prominent Hindu face of SAD and its main articulator in the Capital, also expressed the anguish that his party was not consulted while making appointments in minority institutions. “There is a big difference,” he said when asked if he saw a difference in how the coalition was being run during Atal Behari Vajpayee’s time and now. Explaining his point, he said Vajpayee treated every ally equal, irrespective of their size, and social relationships were maintained. “Get-togethers were arranged twice or thrice in a year and if somebody would seek time for a meeting, it would be granted immediately. Now, almost negligible social relationship is being maintained with allies,” he claimed.
 
  
  
 
 Asked about the apparent reason for the shift in the attitude of the BJP, he said, “It can be due to the reason that the   got absolute majority on its own.” However, he also pointed towards the results of byelections in Rajasthan in which the party lost two parliamentary and one assembly seat. “Numbers are a reality check. After Rajasthan, reality check shows that the age of single party dominance is over. The next government will be a coalition and it is very important that relations with allies are improved,” he maintained.
 
 On being asked what else reflected that the allies were not being treated well by the BJP, Gujral revealed that when appointments were made for the National Commission for Minorities and the National Commission for Linguistic Minorities, SAD was not even consulted. “Sympathizers of Rashtariya Swaymsewak Sangh or of Rashtariya Sikh Sangat were appointed,” he said. “No Sikh governor has been appointed. Appoint at least one Sikh governor even if he is not an Akali. No Sikh has been appointed as VC of any central university. Is there any dearth of scholars among Sikhs?” he said.
 
 Making a point about appointments of directors in nationalized banks or public sector companies, he said, “They appointed their own men in all these institutions and no ally, be it our party,   or TDP, were given any representation. These appointments should also be shared with allies.” He also said the TDP was also not being treated well. “The commitment of financial help to Chandrababu Naidu to make the new capital for Andhra Pradesh and other development work has not been fulfilled,” Gujral maintained.
 
 Asked if all this would lead to a flash point where the alliance could fall apart, Gujral said “I hope there is no flash point because my party feels that our relationship is not just political but social also. We don’t want to rock the boat at all and moreover, the accomplishments of this government are huge on economic and other fronts. Major changes have taken place. This government has brought the economy back on the track and this budget is good for farmers. They have accomplished a lot in foreign policy and corruption at top levels has been eradicated and we salute them for these achievements. We fell proud of these accomplishments as an ally of this government,” he said, adding that, “The only thing is that the allies should be treated better.”
 
 
 
