NEW DELHI: Teenage shooter   has won silver in the final of the women’s   event at the   in  , Australia on Monday, moving ahead of defending champion   in the last few moments and ending marginally short of gold medalist Martina Lindsay Veloso in a tense shoot-off. 

 
 
 
 Having won gold in the same event four years ago at the Glasgow  , the 25-year-old Apurvi settled for bronze after dominating the eight-member final only for her last two shots of 9.9 and 9.4 to bring her down to third place. She finished with 225.3 points, second to Mehuli’s 247.2 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 In an excruciating last few moments of the eight-member final, the 17-year-old Mehuli surpassed Apurvi and engaged in a shoot-off with Singapore’s Veloso once the two shooters finished level on 247.2. Veloso’s final shot was worth 10.3, while Mehuli’s was 9.9. It is an extremely satisfying performance from the young Bengal shooter in her first appearance at the Commonwealth Games. 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 Mehuli had followed Apurvi, who topped the qualification round with a CWG qualifying record total of 432.2, into the final at fifth place in qualification with a total of 413.7. 
 
 Making her debut at the ISSF World Cup in Mexico earlier this year, Mehuli clinched two bronze medals to shoot into the limelight with these eye-catching performances. Before making waves at the junior World Cup, the talented Bengal shooter had already announced herself at the 61st National Shooting Championship Competitions in December 2017 when she won eight gold medals including four in the team events.
 
 Mehuli had her fair share of struggles before making it big. She was undergoing counselling at the age of 14 to recover from an unfortunate incident when a pellet from her rifle accidentally hit an onlooker at a shooting academy resulting in her suspension. Not to mention the financial hurdles she had to overcome to continue her dream of becoming a shooting star.
 
 After enrolling at Joydeep Karmakar's academy in Kolkata, which meant she had to travel daily with her equipment for over four hours and sometimes returning home close to midnight, the hard work began to pay off. In 2014, Mehuli won two silver medals at the West Bengal junior championships before stealing the limelight at the National championships in 2017. At the Asian Airgun Championships in 2017, she secured her spot for the 2018 Youth Olympics Games with a gold in women's 10m air rifle [youth category].
 
 
