CHENNAI: The   ( ) has communicated to the Centre that sufficient evidence exists in a corruption case to initiate departmental action against   Home Finance Ltd (RHFL) managing director   and slap him with a major penalty. 

 
 The agency, which made the recommendations in a letter to the Union home ministry, had submitted the suggestions in a closure report last year after a probe on an FIR charging Varadarajan, a former managing director of  , and his associates with corruption. The recommendation comes after a fiscal year in which agencies reported as many as 5,152 cases of bank fraud - including the 13,700-crore   scam - involving close to 28,500 crore. 
 
 The CBI's case was that Varadarajan and the other accused had waived penalties to a firm that had taken a loan from Repco Bank without informing the board and following due procedures. The CBI had in 2016 conducted searches at the residences of Varadarajan, Repco Bank executive director V Raghu and ex-RHFL chief manager K S Kannan on allegations that Repco officials favoured a Coimbatore-based textile machinery spare parts and real estate firm by waiving a 24.31 lakh penalty related to a 3.7 crore loan from Repco Bank, when Varadarajan was the bank's MD, which turned into a non-performing asset. 
 
 
 
 
 In the closure report, however, CBI stated that Varadarajan, as managing director, had powers to give waivers and the failure to penalise the Coimbatore firm could have been a procedural lapse. The investigating officer stated that there was no proof of conspiracy or quid pro quo in the case, but recommended departmental action against the bank officials.
 
 Last month, All India Repatriates Welfare Association president Su Jeevan wrote to former chief election commissioner and current RHFL chairman T S Krishnamurthy, stating that RHFL’s board of directors had received for scrutiny only a favourable portion of the CBI closure report.
 
 “This was an done with ulterior motives and to cheat the board which comprises some knowledgeable, well-experience and eminent personalities,” the letter stated.
 
 RHFL is a housing finance company headquartered in Chennai. It is a subsidiary of Repco Bank, which holds around 30% stake in the firm. The Centre set up Repco Bank in 1960 to extend services primarily to repatriates. Asked if the CBI’s recommendation of departmental action was communicated to the RHFL board, Varadarajan said that he and the company were not aware of the CBI’s letter to the home ministry.
 
 “The CBI’s entire report has not been placed before the board,” he said, adding that the agency had recommended action only against bank officials. Krishnamurthy also said that he was not aware of the CBI’s letter.
 
 
 
 
