CHENNAI: Smelling a scam in claiming road accident compensations — and three different insurance claims for a single road accident death — the Madras high court has directed the personal appearance of the Kancheepuram district superintendent of police on June 6. Insurance claim totalling Rs 1.30 crore had been made over a single accident case registered by Somangalam police in Kancheepuram district.

 Justice P N Prakash issued the directions, on a plea moved by  . Besides the SP, the court has also ordered appearance of inspector of Somangalam police station.
 
 The issue pertains to three different summonses issued by Motor Accident Claim Tribunal (MACT) to insurance company in connection with a road accident occurred on February 9, 2017, on Vandalur-Poonamallee Road. It was claimed that one   died in the accident. An application was moved seeking insurance claim to the tune of Rs42.35 lakh.
 
 When the insurer made preliminary inquiries, it came to light that two more claim applications had been moved for the death of same Mohan in tribunals at Chennai and Thiruvallur, seeking a claim of Rs35 lakh and Rs50 lakh respectively.
 
 Appalled over the multiple claims, the insurer carried out a private investigation which revealed that an FIR dated February 14, 2017, had been registered at Somangalam police station. According to the FIR, K Mohan who was riding a bike was hit by an unknown vehicle at 12.45am on February 9, 2017.
 
 The same was also confirmed from the documents downloaded by the insurance company from the Crime and Criminal Tracking Network & Systems (CCTNS) portal.
 
 Moving a criminal plea in the high court, the company submitted that while as per CCTNS upload, the FIR was treated as closed and undetected, certified copies of the same FIR were issued implicating vehicles insured with the company based on which three separate claims had been filed.
 
 Representing the insurance firm, advocate Vijayaraghavan Narasimhan submitted that the   had appointed special investigation teams (SIT) to probe a similar scam. He wanted the court to direct the   government to constitute a similar SIT to probe the scam. However, noting that for the time being it would be appropriate to direct the crime branch of state police to file a status report on the complaint lodged by the insurance company, the judge said based on the report the court would consider further course of action.
 
