AHMEDABAD: It is now   who has appealed to   for a  . The reason given by the CM is   in the state. The water shortage will impact about 10 lakh hectares of land in which sowing takes place for a summer crop.

 Talking to journalists, Rupani said the Narmada dam had to cater to the water needs of four states, including Gujarat. 
 
 “Less rainfall in catchment areas had affected the inflow into Narmada dam and this had caused the water shorage,” he said. 
 
 “Water storage in the Narmada dam is not adequate for supply to agriculture as drinking water supply — to around 4 crore people in more than 10,000 villages and over 167 towns — is our foremost priority in the state. Such a situation arises once in 20 years,” Rupani said.
 
 According to the state’s agriculture department, sowing during the summer season is normally in an area of 9.83 lakh hectare. Figures reveal that sowing in 2017 had been only in an area of 8.11 lakh hectare. Data reveals that the main crop sown was millet; it was sown in an area of 2.48 lakh hectares. 
 
 This was followed by fodder which was sown in an area of 2.32 lakh hectares. Officials said sowing had been more in north and central Gujarat. In northern Gujarat, sowing had taken place in an area of 3.64 lakh hectare, followed by 2.17 lakh hectare in central Gujarat.
 
 Agriculture analysts said the water shortage would not affect a large area as usually sowing for Rabi and Kharif crops takes place in an area of over 80 lakh hectares. Agriculture economist R L Siyani said that usually sowing of fodder is greater as it fetches a good price. Hence no sowing may lead to a fodder crisis, said Sayani.
 
 Dharmshi Patel of Nani Majethi in Surendranagar said that only 25% of the farmers who had water facilities go in for sowing during monsoon. He said that in his village, farmers mainly sow guvar for fodder as it gets a good price. He further said that no water would mean a loss ranging from Rs 20,000 to Rs 50,000, depending on the land holding of the farmers. If the farmers go in for sowing of pulses or oilseeds, their income may be as high as Rs 60,000 to Rs 1 lakh, depending on the size of their land holdings.
 
 
