MUMBAI: Bombay   on Saturday slammed a   in south Mumbai for exposing the lives and properties of   to risk. The court directed a structural engineer and architect to immediately visit.   Building on   after tenants apprised it of damage caused to their building by “unauthorised work” by landlords.

 Justice S J Kathawalla said in his order, “Though much can be written about the conduct of landlord of suit building who has carried out substantial unauthorised work in the building, thereby damaging it and exposing life and property of tenants to grave danger.” He said he would not proceed to pen down details as “the need of the hour is to forthwith remedy the damage”.
 
 Shailesh Agarwal, one of the landlords, appeared before Justice Kathawalla and “agreed to undo the entire damage to the building by carrying out restoration work”. The HC directed the architect, Amol Shetgiri, to visit the spot, along with a structural engineer, and submit a report on unauthorised work and consequent damage caused and likely to be caused. The work and time required to complete restoration has to be part of the report. Tenants and landlords can make submissions before him. He will deal with them in his report, which has to be submitted on Monday, when the matter will be heard next.
 
 Rusi Postwalla (82), Bapsy Davierwala (78) and 16 other tenants of Bhatia Society, also know as Sitaram Sadan, a 130-year-old “heritage building”, had moved the court against Agarwal and three landlords, as well as Mumbai Repair Board after cracks appeared in the building on March 16. A ground floor occupant vacated the flat and four landlords occupied it in December 2017 or January 2018, said the tenants. Cracks developed on internal and external walls and they suspected major unauthorised work was under way on the ground floor. On March 17, they said the landlords had “unlawfully” dug up the floor to about 3-4 ft deep and damaged the plinth and iron beams, which were the foundation, damaging its integrity, affecting structural stability and jeopardising their safety. The building with 50 tenants has a stone frontage. No permission was taken from the heritage committee, the tenants said.
 
 The HC, after hearing the lawyers on Saturday, was aghast and made its displeasure at their actions known to the landlord.
 
 On March 22, the tenants who had sought help from the repair board, were told to vacate the premises as a safety precaution. “Since work was carried out unauthorizedly by occupants, it was not possible for the officer to repair it,” the board said. On March 23, “virtually dishoused”, the tenants lodged a criminal case with LT Marg police station over the damage and risk.
 
 
