SHIMLA: A court in Shimla has extended the judicial custody of nine police officials, including   Zahur H Zaidi, former Shimla SP D W Negi and former DSP (Theog) Manoj Joshi, arrested in connection with the Kotkhai   case till March 9. With the accused agreeing to give voice samples in accordance with the   demand, the court could take a decision on the issue of taking voice samples on March 9.

 The CBI team has already applied in the court to obtain the voice samples of arrested cops on the ground that an audio clip was found in their mobile phones and to establish that it contained their voices, it was necessary to have their voice samples. On Thursday, all nine arrested police officials were present in the court but no decision was taken on the issue of taking voice samples. 
 
 Suraj Singh who was arrested by Kotkhai police, in connection with gangrape and murder of minor girl, was killed inside the police lock up at Kotkhai on July 18 last year.
 
 On August 29, the CBI had arrested eight police officials of Himachal Pradesh, including Zaidi, who was heading the special investigating team (SIT), to probe the gangrape and murder of a minor girl in Kotkhai, along with the then DSP (Theog) Manoj Joshi, then SHO of Kotkhai police station Rajinder Singh, ASI Deep Chand, three head constables Surat Singh, Mohan Lal and   besides constable Ranjit Satreta. Negi was arrested on November 16. 
 
 While Shimla police had claimed that Suraj was killed inside the police lock up by Rajinder Singh, dubbed as the main accused in the case related to the gangrape and murder of minor girl in Kotkhai area, the CBI investigation revealed that on July 18 night, a police team consisting of Rajinder Singh, Deep Chand Sharma, Rafi Mohammad, Mohan Lal, Surat Singh and Ranjeet Satreta tortured Suraj under the supervision of DSP Joshi. To compel Suraj to confess to the crime, they inflicted multiple injuries by severe beating and physical torture resulting in his death, the probe added.
 
 One of the arrested head constables, Mohan Lal, recently shot off a letter from jail to the state high court, with copy of letter sent to governor, chief minister and DGP, raising questions on the CBI investigation and demanding fresh investigation through National Investigative Agency (NIA) or CID to bring out the truth of custodial death case. In the letter, he has narrated the entire incident leading to the death of Suraj inside the police lock up. He claimed that before his arrest he had revealed everything to the CBI team but his statement was not considered.
 
 
