KOLKATA: Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations reduced the pass cut-off from 35 to 33 in   and from 40 to 35 in ISC. Yet, instead of the pass percentage increasing sharply, it dipped marginally against the previous year. In 2017, the pass percentage in ICSE was 98.53, while it is 98.51this year. In  , pass percentage has gone down from 96.47 in 2017 to 96.21this year.

 
  
 
 This oddity occurred due to a second crucial decision by the council: doing away with moderation of marks. While the pass cut-off was lowered to bring a parity between CISCE and other boards, the council also recognised the need to do away with the practice of moderation or giving additional marks when there was a possibility of examinees failing in large numbers. Had it decided on the latter without reducing the pass marks, the pass percentage at both exams would have dipped substantially.
 
 At the other end of the spectrum, the number of candidates that secured high marks increased. CISCE secretary and chief executive Gerry Arathoon said, “The number of candidates securing above 90% has increased in both ICSE and ISC.”
 
 The reason for this, say teachers, could be anxiety about the withdrawal of moderation that led to students studying more diligently. “They (students) knew they could not afford to be complacent,” said a teacher of mathematics, a subject in which the board has used moderation—giving bonus marks to counter the possibility of mass failing in a subject—in the past.
 
 CISCE’s decision to make the ISC syllabus similar to that of Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) also helped ISC students. As CBSE was perceived to be more in sync with various entrance examinations, students sitting for ISC had to also contend with CBSE to fare well in the entrance tests that followed the board exams. Nabarun De, principal of Central Modern School, said a new question pattern made an entry this year for ISC. “For the common curriculum and changed question pattern, candidates were not required to study separately for board exams and national entrance tests. So now, they could focus on a single syllabus and fare well in the exams,” said De.
 
 Some, however, feel differently. The principal of a Howrah-based school said students weren’t quite prepared for the changes in the question pattern and ended up answering either more or less than the number of questions they were required to attempt. “The changes in the question pattern made all topics compulsory for them to study. Students could not afford to leave out some topics as a particular question had sub-questions from various other chapters. Some   have fared badly in both ICSE and ISC this year due to this reason,” he said.
 
 Also, changes in the evaluation of science practical exam helped. Earlier, an external examiner oversaw the practical conducted by students and check the laboratory manual, along with projects. The answer scripts of the practical work report were then sent to the council for evaluation. Now, those answer scripts were evaluated by the external examiner overseeing the practical work. “I think students are getting rewarded better now as the examiner can see the work done by him or her and check the reports at the same time,” said Rammohan Mission School principal Sujoy Biswas.
 
