NAGPUR : In yet another setback to the absconding BJP leader   alias Munna Yadav, the sessions court here rejected his and brother Bala’s anticipatory bail plea on Thursday.

 The siblings moved for anticipatory bail after 280-page chargesheet was filed by Dhantoli police last month. It would be almost five months since the accused duo is absconding, but the city police that cracked many hi-profile murder cases within 24 hours miserably failed to trace them due to obvious reasons. Their bail pleas were moved through counsel Uday Dable and  , who’re now planning to challenge this order at the Nagpur bench of Bombay high court.
 
 While endorsing prosecution’s contentions, judge ST Bhalerao held that until blood samples of both accused aren’t collected and weapon (hockey) used in the assault isn’t seized, the bail can’t be granted. He also clarified that since residents of both warring factions — Munna and Mangal Yadav — are in proximity, there are chances of they clashing again.
 
 After brandishing them as “known criminals”, Dhantoli cops had already diluted the case against Munna’s family and also against Mangal Yadav’s kin by dropping a serious charge of ‘attempt to murder’ under Section 307 of IPC, which made it easier for them to secure bail. However, the crime branch filed a chargesheet against Munna’s family under Section 326 of IPC along with other sections for rioting and voluntarily causing grievous hurt.
 
 Munna, who was made Maharashtra State Construction Workers’ Welfare Board (MSCWWB) chairman by chief minister Devendra Fadnavis, is already facing several criminal charges with 12 complaints registered against him in various police stations. He earlier withdrew his bail application from the HC as it was about to be dismissed.
 
 In other case by Navita Avdhesh Yadav, the HC had already expressed displeasure of cops failure to trace him and sternly directed them to submit a comprehensive affidavit on steps taken to nab him.
 
 After cops failed to nab Munna, the city police machinery faced wrath from the opposition Congress-NCP members during assembly session in December. Opposition leader Radhakrishna Vikhe-Patil and NCP leaders Ajit Pawar and   launched a blistering attack on the CM for allegedly protecting the absconding goon having many offences against him. They demanded to immediately declare him as an absconder and dismiss him from the MSCWWB chairman’s post.
 
 While speaking during a debate on deteriorating law and order situation, Vikhe-Patil flayed the police by disclosing that Yadav was hiding in a farmhouse, about 22 kms away from city and named BJP corporator Vicky Kukreja, now NMC standing committee chairman, for helping him. He dared the police to arrest Kukreja and force him to spill the beans on Yadav’s whereabouts.
 
 
