CHENNAI: In the blazing sun, Chinna Ponnu scours through a pile of trash with a small magnet. With a clean sweep, she picks up five large nails buried under the sand.

 “I collected 5kg of nails yesterday and sold the lot for Rs 2/kg,” she said nudging her 9-year-old granddaughter Devi to help her. As she gets busy again, she ignores the heaps of plastic, pieces of plywood and thermocol strewn across the 40-acre site off   — they won’t fetch her any money.
 
 A month ago, this was the venue of   2018, the centre of attraction for defence and allied industries, drawing people from across the world. It is hard to imagine that missiles, artillery guns and radars were on display here; or to picture global representatives talking business in airconditioned tents that dotted a pristine beach, on a swathe of land where all roads led to a sanitised and heavily guarded venue.
 
 Bitumen roads leading to nowhere, concrete pylons jutting out of waste are all the three-day expo left behind.
 
 “The tents were up for almost a month after the event ended. They removed them only four days ago. The roads they laid are of no use now. We have our paths from the villages,” said Chitra, of Therkupattu, one of three villages around the venue. Villagers said many families made a living by growing casuarina trees on the land owned by  , before it was taken over for the event.
 
 “We had sold the wood and were planning to plant saplings again when they took over the land,” said Gowri from Thiruvidanthai. Several acres of private land were also taken over. Villagers are also concerned about a pond, the only source for irrigation. “The workers at the venue took bath and dirtied it,” complained   of Therkupattu pointing at the thermocol in the water.
 
 The sight of the trash scattered across the land is an eyesore for passersby too. “It is shocking to see the place full of rubbish and thermocol flying every where. There’s still a lot of waste on the side where the stalls were put up,” said Harsha Koda, a member of Federation of OMR Residential Associations, who was on his way to Mammallapuram.
 
 Temple authorities are clueless about when the land would be handed back. “They assured us that it would be returned after restoring it to its original condition. We have to ask authorities when we would get it back,” said K Murthy, temple manager. “If they don’t remove the concrete pylons, we are thinking of building a hall with metal sheets to organise functions. They took the land for free, we might as well make use of it and bring some income for the temple.”
 
 Environmentalist V Srinivasan said DefExpo site was a violation of the Coastal Regulation Zone Notification 2011. “When the Tamil Nadu Coastal Zone Management Authority gave HAL permission to use the land, some of the conditions were to remove the structures, clear the waste and restore the land to its original condition,” he said. “Part of the land where the stalls were put up was less than 500m from the sea and the demos took place just 200m from the shoreline.”
 
 Kancheepuram collector P   said the contractor would clear the debris in a few days: “He had asked for a month after the expo to clean the place. After that, control of the land automatically returns to the temple. There is no formal handing over.”
 
