NAGPUR: Disha Kasat’s cricketing parabola, up till now, draws a sharp parallel with some of the greats like   and  . Much like both the legends of Indian  , Disha had a different priorities while learning the nuances of the game.

 
 Not long ago, three seasons to be precise, Disha was rated as one of the best junior pacers in Central Zone. But as fate would have it, her action came under scanner and soon she left her aspiration of becoming a pacer. Disha found herself in a spot. She didn’t shun the game though and picked a willow in hand.
 
 The once-a-bowler-now-a-batsman, or viseversa, tales always make for an interesting read. Disha’s was no different. She was anxious when she had to give up her beloved ability to bowl with a longer run-up. It was a difficult time for her to shift her focus. She consulted many coaches in VCA, at Mujumdar Cricket Academy and back home in Amravati to put her career on track by starting to focus on batting.
 
 Within three years of doing the unusual, Disha emerged as the promising batswoman in the region. She has decent performances under her belt for VCA U-19 and Under-23 teams in last two seasons.
 
 20-year-old Disha will play under Railways’ Sarika Koli, who represented India ‘A’ against Australia in a tour game played on Tuesday. The   girl is expected to play her first match when Sarika-led Central Zone side will face East Zone at GSFC ground, Vadodara, on Saturday.
 
 Disha has been in top form. Recently, the right-handed top-order batswomen emerged as the highest run-getter for Vidarbha in the Under-23 Zonal League. She collected 155 runs from 5 matches during the league played in Chhattisgarh. Her match-winning unbeaten 80-run knock stood out tall and that led to her inclusion in the Central Zone team for Women’s U-23 Inter Zonal One-Day meet.
 
 Last year too, Disha posted a good show in BCCI tournaments apart from topping the batting chart in the West Zone University representing Nagpur with more than 150 runs in 3 matches. The then coach of Nagpur University Prashant Bambal believes that she has the ability to be the future star.
 
 “I feel she is a promising batswomen after Mona Meshram from Vidarbha. If Disha intensifies the hard work and focus more on minute details of batting, she would definitely have a bright career,” Bambal, who has worked with many Ranji Trophy players, said.
 
 Many Central Zone and national junior selectors have been praising Disha for her batting ability. And, she is just one big tournament away from getting into the next level. Bambal feels, “Disha has been rated in high regards because of her determination clubbed with a fluent batting.”
 
 “Everytime Disha is on the ground, she forgets everything and tries to better herself. This quality separates her from others. I just hope she gets more match practice which will automatically iron out shortcomings and help her in longer run,” Bambal added.
 
