KOLKATA: Cartoonist Chandi Lahiri breathed his last at the state-run R G   at 1.50pm on Thursday after a brief period of illness, marking the end of a chapter in Bengal’s history of cartoon. Lahiri was 86 and is survived by his wife Tapati and daughter Trina.

 
 Marked by simplicity and ease, Lahiri left generations of Bengalis enthralled with his brand of humour that was non-acerbic, yet sharp, for the past five decades. Born on March 13, 1931, in Nabadwip, Lahiri was deeply involved in politics as a teenager. He began his career in 1952 at the ‘Dainik Loksevak’ newspaper as a reporter and took to drawing cartoons in 1961. A year later, he joined ‘Anandabazaar Patrika’ and continued there for 50 years before working with other media outlets.
 
 Tridib Chatterjee, general secretary of Publishers and Booksellers Guild, remembers the hard-hitting cartoons of former Bengal chief minister Jyoti Basu that Lahiri had done. “However, later on, he went on to have a cordial relationship with  . While most talk about his political cartoons, few highlight his depth of knowledge about India’s political history and struggle for Independence. He remained underrated all his life,” Chatterjee said.
 
 Lahiri, whose ‘Michke’ and ‘Nengti’ are as popular as ‘Bideshider Chokhe Bangla’, ‘Chandir Chandipath’, ‘Banglar Cartoon Itihash’, has also
 
 been a symbol of grit and determination. “Quite early in his life, he had lost his arm in a tram accident. But he overcame that hurdle with his immense inner strength,” Chatterjee said.
 
 
  
 
 Though cartoons gave him a legendary status, few know about his skills as an animator. Doordarshan Kendra Kolkata’s former station director Abhijit Dasgupta met him in 1976. “That’s when he did cartoons for Doordarshan. With the advent of colour TV, Rudraprasad Sengupta did a series called ‘Obirato Chenamu-kh’. Chandi da had designed an animated colour cartoon title sequence,” he recalled.
 
 Despite being known for his bold strokes, Lahiri was a highly sensitive human being. He agreed to do cartoons for the paediatric wing of a cancer hospital free of cost. His cartoons were hung from ceilings and on walls in the wards to help the children fight depression during chemotherapy.
 
 One of his last wishes was to come up with a series on Bengal in general and Kolkata in particular. “Two years ago, I had suggested that he draw this series. He was so excited that the cartoons were ready within days. He was keen that this compilation be published as a book,” Dasgupta said.
 
 According to cartoon aficionado Samindra Bhowmik, one of Lahiri’s biggest contributions was his attempt to make children sensitive towards animals. “He created a number of animal characters like Giraffe, Nengti (a rat), Michke (a cat) and their relationship with children,” Bhowmik said.
 
