SURAT: Junior cops are usually disciplined to salute their seniors. But policemen in Surat seem to be lacking in this lesson, perhaps the most basic taught during their training. Or, at least this is what the city police commissioner   thinks so.

 Sharma has sought to remind the cops, especially the new recruits, through a circular which asks all policemen should compulsorily salute their seniors. The circular has created quite a buzz among the cops, who are recovering from the hectic bandobast duty during elections.
 
 Sharma found that many junior policemen were not respecting their seniors in various police stations in the city. The instructions have also been issued to all those cops working in different branches like detection of crime branch (DCB), prevention of crime branch (PCB) and special operations group (SOG).
 
 The commissioner has asked the police station officers (PSO) to ensure that all the policemen in the specific stations salute their seniors. Further, those posted on duty on the city roads should also salute all senior officers when they pass from their areas.
 
 Though it is not mandatory for the traffic cops and traffic brigade jawans to salute the senior officer’s when they pass from the spot, they have been instructed to show respect by standing in attention position. 
 
 The circular states that if officers stop their vehicle on the road, policemen in the vicinity must to and salute them.
 
 When contacted, Sharma told TOI: “Saluting seniors is part of departmental discipline and I have noticed that some freshly recruited junior level cops don’t show such respect to their seniors. Even a constable is supposed to salute head constable.” 
 
 “The circular has been issued to remind them of this discipline and adhere to the practice,” he said.
 
 In the past, Sharma has issued circulars instructing cops to dress properly while in uniform or civil dress to help improve police’s image among the people. He had removed air conditioners from chambers of police inspectors (PIs) last summer following complaints of PIs not being easily accessible to commoners.
 
 
