KERI: Goa’s Dhangar community feels insecure as the fear of eviction from their age-old dwelling houses makes them fidgety. For years, their struggle to obtain tribal status has remained only a distant dream. The recent demolition of two houses of their community members in Sattari has made them more restless as uncertainty looms large over their habitations in forested areas. Thaki Varak and Shakuntala Zore’s houses were demolished as the   had termed those illegal.

 Land ownership is a serious issue that always kept   exposed to the fear of eviction. Varak and Zore were issued notices on May 15, 2017, for encroachment on agricultural plot acquired for the rehabilitation of the families affected by the Anjunem irrigation project. As they did not respond to the notices, both structures were demolished. In the past too, encroachments had met with similar fate. With no shelter over their head and economically crippled, they protested for justice. Local MLA and health minister, Vishwajit Rane assured them of rehabilitation. 
 
 Speaking to TOI, president of   Seva B D Mote said that since ages, Dhangars were residing in forested areas without land ownership rights. Due to this, they were continuously exposed to eviction. “Once Dhangar families were the undisputed lords of the Western Ghats, but today they are left with no ground beneath their feet,” he said. Though the state legislation provides protection to Mundcars, there are many hurdles when it comes to the exercising of their rights to purchase the dwelling houses. 
 
 Leader of opposition Babu Kavlekar informed TOI that he will highlight the plight of the Dhangar community in the assembly as they have been deprived of benefits under the Mundkar Act and Atal Asra Yojana schemes. Vagha Misal, a Dhangar leader from Dudhal of Sanguem, stated that the state government in September 2013 had published a white paper on non-inclusion of   as Scheduled Tribes under Article 342 of the Constitution in September 2013.
 
 “Whatever issues that have been discussed, government should plan a strategy to implement schemes meant for Dhangars at the earliest,” he said. Social welfare minister   informed that he will consider the matter on a priority basis and do justice to the families, which had followed proper procedures and norms.
 
 
