When the chirping sparrows almost fell silent in his neighborhood at MGR Nagar in Coimbatore’s Podanur, B Pandiyarajan decided to do something about it. The 44-year-old, who works as a turner at a lathe workshop, started the Sparrow Conservation Movement, with the help of his colleagues in 2012, to provide shelter to the species in the city. The group has so far has built almost 500 bird houses atop houses and commercial establishments in Coimbatore, saving around 3,000 sparrow hatchlings. 

 "I grew up seeing sparrows near my house and surrounding areas. But their numbers soon started dwindling with the thinning of greenery in the locality. Also, the habit among locals to feed animals and birds in the locality has also waned with passing generations. Sparrows nest close to human habitations and it seemed unnatural when they migrated to other areas for want of food. This inspired me to start the ‘Sparrow Conservation Movement –Refuge for Feathered Guests’ with the help of other turners in 2012, to bring back the sparrows to my neighbourhood," he says.
 
 A school dropout, Pandiyarajan, who earns Rs15, 000 per month, saves a portion of his salary to buy wood to build the bird houses. "We have been making wooden boxes and fixing them in places that sparrows used to frequent earlier. The birds nest in these boxes," he says.
 
 Pandiyarajan and his colleagues pooled money and bought plywood to build the houses. "We work for at least 12 hours in the lathe workshop. So, whenever we get free time, we make the bird houses. Sparrows mostly spend their time in the nest for laying eggs and hatching them. The young ones would stay in the nest for about 21 days after which the birds will take flight. The parent birds will return to the same place for the next breeding season," he adds.
 
 The houses are specifically designed for the species, and can accommodate one pair of sparrows, who in turn build their nests inside it. Now Pandiyarajan is building a new type of house, which can accommodate three pairs. On a trial basis, he has fixed the bird houses at Podanur, Chettipalayam, Kovaipudur, Sundarapuram, Singanallur, Machampalayam in the city. After being contacted by bird lovers from across the country, he has sent bird houses to people in Karnataka, Odisha and Puducherry. What is most intriguing is that Pandiyarajan doesn’t charge even a penny for the same.
 
 "We fixed three bird houses in a commercial establishment in Podanur four years ago. Now the two bird houses have more than eight hatchlings. We are really happy that our efforts are helping in reviving the sparrow population in the city," he says.
 
 Pandiyarajan plans to expand the movement to the entire state. "Many people say the sparrow population has dwindled due to mobile phone towers. But it is not true. We kept a bird house in a bakery located near a mobile phone tower where a pair of sparrows laid eggs and nurtured fledglings without any problems. The truth is we destroyed the suitable environment for sparrows in the city, leading to their decline."
 
 Having done his bit, Pandiyarajan has a message for fellow humans. "During the summer, it becomes difficult for the birds to get food and water. We request people to leave food and water in open spaces for birds and I can assure you that you will see sparrows in your house. Those who want to give shelter to birds in their houses can contact me," he adds.
 
 
