Ludhiana: In order to strengthen and improve the waste management capabilities of Municipal Corporation, a one-day capacity building technical workshop of all stakeholders on Waste Management Rules 2016 took place at Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Science University (Gadvasu) on Friday. 

 The workshop covered various subjects of Managing Solid Waste, Plastic Waste, Bio-medical Waste, Electronic Waste, Construction Waste and Demolition Waste in the city, according to Waste Management Rules 2016 by Union Ministry of Urban Development, Government of India. The workshop was inaugurated by Ludhiana Mayor Balkar Singh Sandhu in the presence of MC commissioner Jaskiran Singh; Dr Pooran Singh, project director of Punjab Municipal Infrastructure Development Company (PMIDC), Chandigarh; senior officials of Punjab Pollution Control Board (PPCB), health department, and MC. More than 200 participants, including MC’s sanitary inspectors, representatives from various NGOs, hospitals, hotels, labs, industrial associations, waste collectors, and others took part in the workshop.
 
 Addressing in the workshop, the mayor said to create awareness and effective compliance of all Waste Management Rules 2016, he solicited the support of all stakeholders in making the city the best city in the country. Sandhu said it was the collective duty of all residents to ensure effective management of every type of waste as per rules. He hoped participants would gain a lot, and the workshop would enhance their knowledge about new rules from experts. Jaskiran Singh told people to keep their environment neat and clean, which will help MC in better planning and management of waste. He appreciated the efforts of officers and MC for launching various awareness campaigns in the city regarding improving hygiene conditions in the city.
 
 Dr Pooran Singh, project director of Punjab Municipal Infrastructure Development Company and PPCB’s Rajiv Garg and others elaborated about Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016. The speakers also sought questions from participants during the session, and answered in depth with figures and statistics. 
 
 
