BATHINDA: After their talks with the   (PSPCL) failed to break the deadlock, contractual employees of Guru Nanak Dev thermal plant (GNDTP) blocked one side of the Bathinda-Mansa highway on Tuesday forenoon. As the district administration couldn’t to arrange their meeting with the state government, the employees blocked the other side of the highway even as it rained and air grew chilly.

 The contractual employees’ coordination committee had on Sunday given a call to hold rally on Tuesday with support from regular employees of GNDTP, along with farmer organization BKU (Ekta Ugrahan). The employees also threatened to hold protest during the Republic Day function, if their demands of restarting the thermal plant and regularization of their services were not met.
 
 GNDTP contractual employees’ round-the-clock protest with their families continued consecutively for the 23rd day on Tuesday. The employees had started the protest outside the   district administrative complex on January 1, when the state government had shut down the 460 MW power plant.
 
 Plant contractual employees’ committee convener   and co-convener   said, “PSPCL management had called us to   for a meeting where it offered to adjust us into a private company offering its services to PSPCL on outsourcing basis. We declined the offer and demanded that the contractual employees should be employed in PSPCL. The management was non-committal due to which the deadlock persisted. We will keep on protesting till our demands are met.”
 
 GNDTP general manager  , who was also present in the meeting at Patiala, said, “The PSPCL management is exploring the possibilities to suitably adjusting the contractual employees and trying to resolve the issue. The employees were offered to be adjusted in an outsourcing company and efforts are being made to make them accept the offer.”
 
 Meanwhile, protests by BKU (Ekta Ugrahan) for complete farm debt waiver continued on Tuesday. The protest had to be halted due to rains in later in the afternoon. The pandal erected for protest was partially damaged due to rain and farmers had to face problems due to the cold showers.
 
 
