MUMBAI: In a dramatic development, the   has sacked  , the special public prosecutor in the  . On Tuesday, Mirajkar was preparing for the hearing when Lata Chheda, the chief public prosecutor in the sessions court, came and informed the court about the cancellation of his appointment. “This is a direct fallout and there are no two ways about it. But it is the prerogative of the state to appoint who it likes and to remove who it doesn’t like,” Mirajkar told TOI, referring to his stand on prosecuting the four cops.

 After the announcement of Mirajkar’s denotification, judge V S Padalkar asked why he wasn’t informed earlier. Mirajkar pointed out that the state even had his email address. After going through the copy of the cancellation of appointment —which was effective immediately and signed by Sanjeev Keluskar, under-secretary, law and judiciary department—he said it had been issued on Monday.
 
 
 Mirajkar said he was the third special public prosecutor in the case and despite several attempts to stall proceedings, the trial had managed to move forward with the deposition of the first witness during his tenure. “As prosecutors, we are representatives of the people and not of the police, cabinet or the party in power. I took up this case because these are causes worth fighting for,” he added.
 
 Last month, Chheda had appeared before the trial court and said the state wanted to submit its say on Mirajkar’s plea. The court had granted time till Tuesday. After the dramatic developments on Tuesday, Chheda submitted that the court should wait for the disposal of Yunus’s mother’s plea in the SC against refusal of sanction to prosecute the four officers.
 
 Refusing to wait, judge Padalkar pointed out that it has been over 15 years since the incident, and the HC will seek an explanation on why the trial is not being conducted. “The chargesheet was filed in 2009 and we are in 2018 with four months already gone by,” he said.
 
 When Chheda submitted that she needed to confirm with the state if she could go on as the prosecutor in the case, the court said it was up to her and the state, and the court could conduct the trial on a day-to-day basis from May. The court adjourned the matter to Thursday when the lawyer for the four officers is likely to make submissions.
 
 
