AHMEDABAD: This February,   in the state were forced to sell potatoes they had put in cold storage for just Rs 1 a kg. Three months on, they have some reason to cheer. Wholesale   now range from Rs 9 to Rs 22 a kilogram and are not expected to slide anytime soon. As demand rises, market experts feel prices will rise further, by up to 60%.

 One reason is that the quantity of potatoes in cold storage is currently 20% less than last year. Officials said that potatoes are currently commanding higher prices than onions and tomatoes. The wholesale price of onions currently ranges between Rs 3.50 and Rs 9 per kilogram, while tomatoes are selling for between Rs 6 and Rs 9 a kilogram.
 
 
  
 Potato prices have been rising for a fortnight and market officials believe they will climb further. “We are seeing wide fluctuations in the wholesale market. Any tightening of supply will raise prices further,” says  , secretary of the Ahmedabad Agricultural Produce Market Committee.
 
 Market officials met traders who said prices will not rise if demand remains at the same level, Patel said.
  
 Ashish Guru, president of the  , says, “There are at least one crore 50-kg bags fewer at cold storages in Gujarat compared to 2017. Further, Uttar Pradesh, a major potato producing state, has registered a fall in production. Farmers have not been getting remunerative prices for their produce and have hence moved away potato to more lucrative crops.”
 
 Guru said the Gujarat government last year gave Rs 40 as subsidy to potato farmers. Only 4.09 crore 50-kg bags have been stored this year. The number was 5.10 crore bags in 2017. Cold storage capacity in the state is 5.75 crore bags.
 
 Guru said the drop in potato production this year has brought some relief to farmers at the cost of higher prices for consumers.
 
 According to potato traders, farmers in major potato producing states collectively reduced the acreage sown with the tuber last year by 5% to 7%, after two straight years of gluts in the market. The reduced acreage has led to a 10% to 20% fall in potato output.
 
 
