CHENNAI:   of Madras will review its Choice Based Credit System (CBCS) and include a provision for bringing in   to evaluate answer scripts of students of the university departments.

 This was indicated by vice-chancellor   during his inaugural speech at the senate meeting on March 31 and reiterated during the syndicate meeting last Thursday. It came up when the marks in four of the six answer scripts of students from the journalism department had changed after re-evaluation.
 
 At present, professors teach the classes, frame the syllabus, set the question papers and also evaluate the answer scripts. CBCS rules mandate showing the scripts to students before making it public. “But there have been complaints from students that this system was not being followed in many departments,” said a university official. 
 
 Varsity professors said some heads run their departments like ‘personal fiefdom’. “They take only a few classes and set question papers as per their will. The marking also is random, with many getting too high and many getting too low marks. Another issue is that many departments have only one or two staff, with part-time lecturers sharing the burden,” said a university official.
 
 This issue recently cropped up when 12 students of the journalism department protested against their head of department G Ravindran alleging that he was not taking classes regularly. University sources said students from other departments had also complained but not officially, as their heads were powerful syndicate or senate members who wield influence.
 
 The system of external examiners is followed in autonomous colleges which charge students a higher examination fee. “This can be replicated in the university departments, but it will cost Rs 10 lakh per year,” the official said. 
 
 A couple of department heads TOI spoke to said the university’s statute did not provide for such a rule. “Bringing in external examiners will curb the academic independence of the departments. The CBCS was framed to protect that,” a professor said.
 
 Former head of the library science department A Amudavalli said she was in favour of the change. “The university’s quality and integrity are at stake. There will be no room for manipulation if external examiners are brought in,” she said.
 
 Duraisamy said in his speech that the purpose of CBCS would be defeated if transparency and a fair and objective evaluation system were not maintained. “We need to have a conducive teaching-learning environment in the University departments,” he said.
 
 
