Director Jayaraj’s  , which released in 2007, was the story of a classical music prodigy. 

 The movie subverted the general practice in films to have a female singer vocalise the keertanams for a young boy. The nine keertanams in the film were all sung by a 13-year-old classical music expert  . The singer’s renditions were particularly noted for the ease with which he presented the keertanams and the spark of supreme talent.
 
 However, that was all we heard from Arjun until recently when a video featuring his voice started doing rounds on social media, impressing viewers. His lucid version of the keertanam Mahaganapathim in the video is striking, thanks to his rendition, which is as impeccable as it was 11 years ago.
 Where was Arjun all this while? “My voice started changing soon after Anandabhairavi and in that phase, I had to take a break. However, I did sing in the 2011 movie Arabiponnu. Of late, I have been focussing more on Carnatic music concerts and I am a B high grade artiste in the All India Radio (AIR),” says the 24-year-old.
 
 For those who aren’t aware of his teenage debut in the film industry, Arjun was the winner of a music reality show, which gave way to the opportunity to sing in Anandabhairavi. A person who spotted his performance recommended him to Jayaraj, who was on the look for a young musical talent. “It’s a dear memory that spans seven days. The recording was in SP Balasubramaniam sir’s studio in Chennai. Composer Veena Parthasarathi helped me fashion the keertanams to suit the rendition of film music.”
 
 While everyone lauded his singing, Arjun recalls that it wasn’t easy. “I remember that the song we were recording the last was particularly challenging, and we were in the studio for long. We had to reschedule the train the next day to return home. But I am glad that the hard work paid dividends,” says Arjun. 
 The young singer has been a regular on classical music daises ever since he was 12 years old. “Music runs in my family,” says Arjun. His parents are alumni of Swathi Thirunal College of Music, Thiruvananthapuram. While his dad has been a music teacher in a school, his mom is a teacher of veena. A few years ago, Arjun had also won words of appreciation from the likes of musical maestro Dakshinamoorthy, when he went on to win a Carnatic music-based reality show on yet another TV channel. 
 
 Arjun pursued engineering in electronics and communication in college, but never left music. “I didn’t perform much in college, until my final year,” he says. Just before graduating, he took part in the Kerala University Youth Festival and won first prizes in both Carnatic music and Western group vocals.
 “I am a big fan of Micheal Jackson. I can’t claim to have a great knowledge in western music but took part in the competition as my friends urged me to,” says the singer, who is also trained for a few years in mridangam. As of now, he is a regular in renowned music festivals like the Chembai Sangeetholsavam and Nishagandhi Music Festival, and have even won words of appreciation from the ones like Ustad Zakir Hussain.
 
  
 “It was a few years ago, and I was stunned to see that soon after my programme, it was Ustad Zakir Hussain who was performing on the same dais! He appreciated my singing and it’s one of the dearest memories,” he says. 
 
 Arjun, who had been working in a company in Technopark is now on the lookout for another, alongside pursuing an MA in Carnatic music. “People keep telling me that shifting my base to Chennai would be a good idea, as it’s very challenging to get any kind of support in Kerala for young Carnatic artistes. I also insist on having a job alongside my musical performances, for this reason. However, music is definitely my first love and that’s where I want to scale heights,” signs off Arjun. 
  
 
