MARGAO: One person died and two others injured after a branch of a tree that came crashing down near the Balli railway station, struck the 12134 Mangalore-CSTM train that was passing across the railway bridge Tuesday evening as gusty winds lashed some parts of  . 

 Police sources said that the impact of the crash was such that one of the passengers travelling on the footboard of a general coach was flung out of the moving train, leading to his instant death. The deceased is yet to be identified by the police. Three others who were travelling in reserved coaches sustained injuries and were administered first aid at the Balli railway station, following which two of them proceeded with their journey by the same train. The third passenger, identified as M Sajid, was later admitted to the Hospicio, Margao, Konkan Railway sources said. 
 
 The incident occurred at around 6.20pm around which time when many parts of South Goa were struck by high velocity winds and moderate showers for a brief while. Deputy manager (public relations),  , Margao, Baban Ghatge, said that the track was cleared within 30 minutes and there was no disruption of railway traffic.
 
 "This is an unusual incident. (The death occurred) on account of the deceased individual travelling on footboard," Ghatge said. Meanwhile, incidents of uprooting of trees and branches falling on roads kept the fire brigade personnel on their toes as gusty winds accompanied by moderate showers were witnessed at many places in South Goa on Tuesday evening.
 
 Cuncolim was the most affected as the duststorm entered shops and homes in various places. At Panzarconni, a tree fell on the house of Lilawati Gaonkar causing extensive damage, fire brigade sources said. A tree also brought down an electricity pole thereby plunging entire   into darkness. Sources in the power supply department indicated that owing to inadequate manpower, power supply would be restored only by Wednesday morning.
 
 Incidents of uprooting of trees and power failure owing to snapping of power supply lines were reported at Navelim, Balli, Sarzora, Fatorpa, Morpirla, Verna and Fatorda. At Mandopa, Navelim, a tree fell on the house of Caetano Pacheco leading to extensive damage, while at Fatorpa, the house of Mahesh Naik was damaged after a tree fell on it.
 
 Traffic blocks were witnessed at Verna after trees came crashing on the road at various places. The Quepem-Balli road was paralysed for some time after a tree came crashing down near the Balli railway bridge, fire brigade sources said.
 
 
