In a city like Gurugram, which is known for its   obsession, running, cycling, or just working out in the gym is second nature to most, and January brings more converts to the religion of fitness, thanks to New Year resolutions. However, a combination of unsupervised training, overconfidence, and peer pressure means that most fitness buffs in the Millennium City are pushing themselves more than they should. Gurugram's fitness experts say that the city's fitness culture has led to many falling prey to  , and nine out of 10 people who are into fitness often end up with injuries due to 'ego-lifting'. And with the number of fitness freaks rising in Gurugram, these injuries are also rising, but they are tough to spot before it is too late.

  
 According to coaches and fitness trainers, of all the people who begin training or running in Gurugram, 90% get injured because of either pushing themselves too hard or exercising unsupervised. Peter England Mr India 2016 runner-up and Gurugram because fitness itself is so popular here and the injuries are rising because the number of people training are on the rise too," he tells us.
 
  
 Since these injuries are caused by pushing the body beyond a safe limit for a prolonged period of time, they aren’t spotted right away. Raghav Jain, an advertising professional from Sushant Lok, says, "I used to bench 60kg initially which is a decent effort for someone my weight. But I would see people lighter than me bench 80kg and attempt 100kg. That got me to push myself and I ended up hurting my elbow. There was no accident or one instance, but a prolonged effort to lift more than my body was prepared for that led to this. In a city like Gurugra
 The fitness culture of Gurugram , which sees some or the other race being organized every weekend – and no shortage of strength competitions in gyms – ends up contributing to this problem. Delhi-based physiotherapist Jeetu Mishra, who works with a number of fitness freaks in Gurugram, says, "In Gurugram, most of these athletes take part in runs and events week after week. But the body’s capacity to heal is hit that way. And since most Gurugrammers take up these physical activities after decades of following a sedentary lifestyle, their base is not strong. As a result, old injuries return when you push yourself too hard. It is very common here." According to Jeetu, knee and back injuries, followed by tendonitis, are the most common fitness injuries in Gurugram.
 
  
  
 
  Another thing that coaches say has contributed to this has been an obsession with gruelling and physically demanding events like ultra-marathons and long-distance triathlons. City-based triathlete  , who is the first person from Gurugram to finish Ironman and Ultraman triathlons, echoes this sentiment. "I compete in runs and triathlons for a sense of accomplishment and not for staying fit. Anybody who says they take part in these gruelling races because they want to keep fit is either misinformed or lying. These races require specialized training that is different from functional fitness. In fact, such rigorous training increases chances of injuries. Being over-ambitious and following the fad in Gurugram are among the chief reasons for overtraining injuries," he says. 
 
 
 
