Actor-turned-politician  , who arrived in   on Tuesday, before proceeding to   to start his political sojourn, said that he was in an important phase of his life’s journey and that it was the Madurai soil that blessed him and sent him to the film world and he was glad that he was in the same soil now.

 He was welcomed by his fans at the Madurai airport. Fans mobbed him outside the airport, and the actor who got into the car, sped off, much to their disappointment. Commenting on DMK leader M K Stalin’s statement, that the new comers in   politics, were paper flowers which would not have fragrance, Kamal Haasan said, "I don’t think he referred to me, If he did, let me tell him that I am not a flower but a seed.’’ DMK working president M K   on Tuesday, in a snide reference to the actor launching his political party, said seasonal flowers without fragrance wilt. In a letter to party cadre, Stalin said, "When seasons change, some flowers may bloom and later wither. Similarly in the Tamil Nadu political arena, glamorous parties are like paper flowers which bloom without any fragrance."
 
 Meanwhile, Madurai is gearing up for another political launch and workers are working round the clock in Othakadai on the outskirts of the city, levelling the ground and setting up the stage, for the actor’s party launch on Wednesday. Preparations are in full swing at the venue, where the workers have set up one of the biggest stages the venue has ever seen with the Yanaimalai Hills as the backdrop. The workers constructed a pedestal with a flag post on which the actor would unfurl the party flag. Flags, however, were found flattering in the venue, which were white in colour with a black map of Tamil Nadu and ‘Naalai Namadhe’ written on it in red.
 
 What was missing compared to the political meetings of the bigger parties, were the cut-outs and banners. M Kamal Murugan, the organiser of the event, said this was on the direction of their leader that no banners or cut-outs should be erected causing inconvenience to the public. "We printed flex banners that would run up to 6,000 feet, around the venue, but they have all folded up after getting a direction from our leader,’’ he said.
 
 Barricades have been erected dividing the seating arrangements and 50,000 chairs have been sourced. But, there is space to house 1.5 lakh people, said Murugan. We will ensure that the women who come to the meeting can participate comfortably, with toilets being set up around the venue. Water and snacks will be distributed.
 
 A cadre army - ‘Thondar Padai’- of 250 people will go around the venue with the police for providing additional security. "We do not know, who the VVIPs are, but know that Aravind Kejiriwal is coming,’’ he said. They have also arranged music bands and dancers to welcome Kamal Haasan when he comes to the venue, but are not sure whether he would approve of it. Five spots have been identified near the venue to help the people to park their vehicles. A total of 2,000 vehicles can be parked in these places, said Murugan. —With inputs from Sivakumar B
 
 
