MORJIM:   operators have cried foul over foreign nationals, especially Russians, clandestinely entering their business.

 As the Arambol and   beach belts attract thousands of tourists, mostly from eastern Europe, some local taxi operators publicise their business in the Russian language.
 
 Much to their concern, foreigners, mostly Russian, have entered the travel and tours business illegally and even captured a significant share of the market.
 
 Foreigners do not directly run these taxi and tour operator services and tie-up with local vehicle owners to run the business.
 
 Foreigners who are in the tour operator business, pick up and drop their customers at odd timings such as 11pm and 4am in order to evade the local tour operators and authorities, said a source.
 
 “Tourists are dropped on the main roads and other localities by these tour operators. They avoid beach areas where local taxi operators have a presence,” said the source.
 
 “It is hard to understand these illegal operators as they converse in foreign languagues,” said a taxi operator. “The foreigners directly advertise on the beach by distributing flyers and telling foreign tourists to use taxi services offered by them. They have even posted small advertising boards in Russian languages about the tours offered by them along with contact details. The content of these posts are not understood by the local taxi operators,” the taxi operator added.
 
 Sources said that some taxi operators have sought the help of foreign tourists to decipher the content of the advertisements and have removed these posts from public places.
 
 Taxi operators have caught hold of illegal foreign tour operators and handed them over to police on many an occasion. But, they are also upset that police have not acted to stop the illegal business.
 
 Sources said that two Russians were caught while advertising tours on the Arambol beach and were detained by police, last month. A similar case was also booked at  .
 
 “According to law, we cannot arrest these foreigners for this violation. We produce them before the tourism department and a penalty of Rs 5,000 is imposed on them. If the case comes to us on a Saturday or Sunday, then we are in a quandary as the tourism department is closed. As per law, we cannot put these foreigners in custody” a police officer told TOI. 
 
 Taxi operators said that only stringent laws and their strict implementations can stop this illegal activity.
 
 
