Bhopal: The state assembly was adjourned for 10 minutes on Friday amid verbal duel between Congress members and minister for legislative affairs Narottam Mishra, each blaming the other for calling journalists “a bunch of thieves”. Narottam Mishra claimed on floor of the House that Congress MLA Jitu Patwari had defamed journalists, while the latter said the statement was meant for BJP leaders, and not the media. 

 The ruckus started over queries by Congress MLAs Jaivardhan Singh and Jitu Patwari during the question hour. MLA from Raghogarh Jaivardhan Singh sought the government’s reply on expenditure on publicity over the past four years. He said that according to the answer provided to him, the government spent Rs 640 crore on publicity, of which Rs 140 crore was paid to newspapers and advertising agencies outside the country.
 
 Jaivardhan Singh said that the government spent Rs 21 crore to publicise the Narmada Seva Yatra, while expenditure on advertising Bhavantar Bhugtan Yojana was only for Rs four crore and no money was spent on advertising the Crop Insurance Scheme. “Why did the government not spend money for information on crop insurance scheme at a time when farmers are committing suicide in the state?” Singh asked. The Congress MLA sought a probe into the government’s spending on publicity and demanded he be made a member of the probe committee.
 
 Replying to the question, Narottam Mishra said, “Narmada Seva Yatra was not the chief minister’s individual campaign, but it was aimed at conservation of the river. That is why the Yatra was given more publicity.” He rejected any probe into the issue.
 
 Congress MLA Jitu Patwari said that the government was giving wrong information. He told the Speaker that on Thursday when he asked a question on government expenditure regarding Narmada Seva Yatra, the government had said Rs 1837 lakh or Rs 18.37 crore was spent. Patwari said that the government’s answer to Jaivardhan Singh’s question states that the state spent just Rs 21 crore on publicity of the yatra. “Why this anomaly in the government’s answer to our questions?” he asked. He also said that his question for Friday regarding benefits extended to journalists has been altered. “Why has my question been changed?” he asked. Therafter, an altercation ensued between Congress members and minister Narottam Mishra.
 
 In the commotion that followed, Jitu Patwari was heard saying, “A bunch of thieves” with Narottam Mishra immediately retaliating, “You are calling journalists thieves.” The question hour ended, but the altercation and din continued. Speaker Sitasharan Sharma asked the sentence to be expunged from records, but Narottam Mishra demanded wanted it to be kept on the records. Therafter, the speaker adjourned the House for 10 minutes.
 
 Jitu Patwari and the rest of the Congress MLAs claimed outside the House that the phrase “bunch of thieves” was meant for BJP and not journalists. “It is Narottam Mishra who went on repeating that journalists are thieves. He said it four times. We know that policies meant for genuine journalists are being given to the kin of BJP leaders and officials whose family members are accredited as journalists,” Patwari claimed. 
 
 
