AHMEDABAD: Maths claimed maximum casualties with at least 2.5 lakh students having failed the subject in SSC results declared on Monday. The   Secondary and Higher Secondary Education Board (GSHSEB) declared 67.5% pass result – a good 31.74% students failed to pass maths exams. The figure would have sounded gloomier had the board not granted up to 14 grace marks, which is estimated to have improved the pass result by 12%.

 Sources in the GSHSEB say the number of students who failed maths exam would be as high as 3.8 lakh if one takes into account the result of repeat students — about 1.5 lakh out of total 2.41 lakh repeater students had appeared for maths retest. “Only 20,000-odd of these have passed,” said a board official. What's more, the number of students who posted 100/100 in Maths has also dwindled from 164 in 2017 to 41this year. P 2
 
 SSC RESULTS
 
 Teachers to be held responsible for poor show
 
 The poor show in maths this year is consistent with the dismal performance of Gujarat board students in the subject over the past few years.
 
 Last year, 2.48 lakh students had failed the exam – the number was equally bad in 2016 (4.7 lakh), 2015 (3.81lakh) and 2014 (2.6 lakh), when the board used to declared combined results of regular and repeat students.
 
 After maths, English (second language) claimed second highest victims with 2.08 lakh students failing the test.
 
 Experts say the consistently poor maths results underscores a deteriorating standard of education in the state wherein the foundation in subjects like maths remains weak.
 
 “Students find it difficult to bridge the big gap between the level of maths taught in primary and secondary syllabus. The no-detention policy where no student is held back till class 8 has also compounded the problem,” said Atul Vyas, a senior maths teacher and textbook author.
 
 Education minister   said that government is set to hold the teachers responsible for poor performance of students. “Teachers will be held responsible for poor performance in respective subjects while principals will be held accountable for poor performance of schools. We will decide upon the punitive action soon,” the minister said.
 
  secretary education   said that quality interventions will be made to raise the subject performance when National Council of Education, Research and Training (NCERT) syllabus is introduced in class X in Gujarat schools from 2019.
 
 “We have decided to evaluate the teachers to ascertain their level of understanding and teaching of subjects especially maths. This will help us make suitable interventions to elevate academic performance of students,” said Tomar.
 
