KOLKATA:   is set to withdraw flights from the city to   and Port   from March 25.

 Sources in the airline said the flight withdrawals followed a need to rationalise routes as it needed to replace 35 ageing   737-800 aircraft. The airline has placed an order for 75 Boeing 737 MAX planes. The fleet replacement would be completed in three years.
 
 The carrier does not offer any direct connections to Chennai, Hyderabad and Bhubaneswar from the city.
 
 
  
 “While rationalising the routes, the low-yield sectors get sacrificed. The yields on Bagdogra and Port Blair are low, except in the tourist seasons – summer for Bagdogra and winter for Port Blair,” a Jet Airways official explained.
 
 Against the current fleet of 82 Boeing 737s, the airline will have a fleet of 110 Boeing 737s in three years. “Once the fleet strength goes up, the airline may consider reintroducing most of the flights,” another official said.
 
 Jet Airways used to be the leading carrier out of Kolkata with the highest number of departures. However, IndiGo has overtaken it now. At present, it operates around 19 flights a day out of Kolkata against IndiGo’s 89 departures daily.
 
 Four years ago, Jet Airways had withdrawn four flights from Kolkata to meet international commitments. Subsequently, two more flights from the city had been taken off.
 
 The flights that had been withdrawn were to Chennai, Lucknow, Bangalore and Delhi. Thereafter, the airline had discontinued a twice-daily connection to Bangkok citing poor yield.
 
 The travel industry expressed displeasure at the city being targeted for flight cuts whenever the airline faced an exigency. “This is not good for business and leads to loss of passenger confidence in the airline. Yields are low because the airlines price themselves aggressively. It does not make sense for a full service carrier to withdraw from a market citing low yields,” a travel agent said.
 
 Sources said the decision to discontinue the daily flight to Bagdogra had not gone down well with even airline officials.
 
 
