SHAHKOT: Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Singh Badal has urged the Election Commission to get the   candidate for Shahkot bypoll Hardev Singh Laddi Sherowalia arrested as soon as he comes to file his nomination papers.

 
 Sukhbir was speaking at a rally held before SAD candidate Naib Singh Kohar filed his papers on Wednesday.
 
 “When he comes to file his nomination before the returning officer, he should be arrested,” Sukhbir said, adding, “It is the duty of the magistrate to arrest him especially when the case against him has been registered under non-bailable provisions and Laddi has also not secured any bail from the court.”
 
 When journalists asked his response to   president Sunil Jakhar’s comment that there were cases registered against Sukhbir and other senior SAD leaders for blocking the national highway, the SAD chief dared the Punjab government to arrest them.
 
 “We are not afraid, they can arrest us,” he said, quickly adding that the comparison was also misplaced as the Akali leaders had resorted to agitation and blocked highways for “saving democracy” while Laddi had been booked for siphoning off a state resource.
 
 He said the Punjab government was openly browbeating the police officer and now the ECI should protect him as he was appointed by the commission from a panel sent by the SSP Jalandhar Rural.
 
 Sukhbir alleged that Congress president Rahul Gandhi was silent on this issue because he had awarded the party ticket to Laddi due to extraneous reasons. “There can be no other reason for the stoic silence of the Congress high command as well as Rahul Gandhi on this issue”.
 
 “On one hand the state government is doing everything to save Laddi by pressuring the police, and on the other, it has registered mining cases in   on the basis of complaints made five years back,” he said.
 
 Meanwhile, speaking on the occasion, Punjab BJP president Shwait Malik said governance in Punjab was totally paralysed due to which various mafias formed by the Congress leaders had taken over the State.
 
 Other senior leaders who were present for Kohar’s filing of the nomination included, SAD secretary general Sukhdev Singh Dhindsa, former speaker Charanjit Singh Atwal, former ministers Gulzar Singh Ranike, Maheshinder Singh Grewal, Parminder Singh Dhindsa, Bibi Jagir Kaur, Dr Daljit Singh Cheema, MLA Pawan Kumar Teenu and senior BJP leaders Manoranjan Kalia and Kamal Sharma.
 
