NEW DELHI: On the sixth day of the strike by sanitation workers, several colonies in west Delhi resembled a garbage dump. When TOI visited Karol Bagh, it found a particular stretch in Channa Market turned into a mini-landfill, raising serious   concerns. The striking workers, however, insisted that their stir was indefinite. 

 It was a similar situation in several other areas falling under the purview of north corporation. These included Gaffar Market, Ajmal Khan Road, Arya Samaj Road, Rajinder Nagar and Patel Nagar. Pointing to the litter on the streets,  , a vendor at Gaffar Market, said even traders were dumping waste outside their shops. “Safai karamcharis are on strike and, as a result, the entire area is covered with garbage,” he said. A roundabout near the market was virtually serving as a dustbin with waste strewn all over the place. The eyesore was partially covered by parked vehicles, which, however, couldn’t contain the stench.
 
 Rajender Mewati, general secretary of the United Front of MCD Employees, claimed that their agitation would continue until a solution was offered by the government. He said the employees had submitted a memorandum to PMO and would call off their stir only if they received a “positive reply” within this week.
 
 “The workers are agitated due to non-payment of salaries and unfulfilled demands. During civic elections, we were promised that employees will be regularised and given allowances. Nothing has changed since then, though,” Mewati said, even as he threatened to intensify the stir from Monday if the demands weren’t met by then. “Other unions and departments may also join the strike and we will expand the stir to across the city,” he said. 
 
 While other departments have extended “moral support” to the safai karamcharis, no final decision has been taken on whether they, too, will join the protests. “We all are suffering due to non-payment of salaries. While for the safai karamcharis, the salaries are pending only for a month, doctors, engineers and teachers are yet to be paid for three months,” AP Khan, president of MCD Forum of Engineers, said.
 
 
