MUMBAI: When a rape survivor says she said ‘No’, it has to be believed she had not consented unless there is evidence to the contrary, the Bombay high court has ruled in an important order.

 
 Eighteen years after a 16-year-old Pune girl was abducted and raped by her 19-year old neighbour, justice   has upheld the seven-year jail term given to the accused.
 
 The judge directed the accused,  , who barely spent five months in prison in the last two decades before he was bailed out, to surrender within four weeks.
 
 “If the version of the survivor is specific that she had not consented to the act and she was forcibly subjected to sexual intercourse, it will have to be believed and accepted like any other testimony unless there is material available to draw an inference against her testimony,” said justice Dangre. The court trashed the defence argument that it was a consensual act as no external injuries were found on the survivor’s body.
 
 “The absence of visible injuries on the survivor on the date of her medical examination would not lead to an inference that she has not suffered any injuries or she has not offered any resistance and it would not falsify her allegations of forcible sexual intercourse,” the judge said.
 
 The court pointed out that after the Nirbhaya incident,   had made rape laws more stringent and raised the age of consent from 16 to 18 years. “A heinous offence like rape committed on a minor girl cannot be looked with laxity…” the court said, emphasising a girl child had the right to live with dignity. “She has a right to make choices, which includes a right to deny sexual intercourse,” added the court.
 
 The incident dates back to August 2000 when the accused allegedly abducted the girl, gagged her and took her to a field where he forced himself on her.
 
 In 2002, a sessions court held Gaikwad guilty and sentenced him. His appeal came up for hearing in the high court recently. The court rejected the defence contention the accused had been falsely implicated as he had a dispute with the girl’s family.
 
