PIMPRI CHINCHWAD: The civic body will regularize   to all   till June 30. 

 The state government had issued directives to all municipal corporations to regularize water connections that were set up between April 1, 2012, and December 31, 2015. 
 
 Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation’s policy to this effect includes a deposit amount, a penal fine and one-and-a-half times water charges. Civic officials expect to mop up around Rs70 crore through this plan. 
 
 Owners of illegal buildings who do not pay water charges will be told to pay 10% of the annual charges as a fine. If water meters are not working, those consumers will have to pay the average water tax as per meter readings. There is a separate policy for slum dwellers. If water tax has not been paid or connection was temporarily stopped, citizens will have to submit a separate application for a new connection, which will be set up in two days.
 
 PCMC has also planned plugging water leakage and the reuse of water for  . According to officials, water losses are caused due to pipeline bursts, water flowing through reservoirs and theft. Civic officials further said water pipelines will have to be replaced under the Amrut project. 
 
 Industries will be given water from the 13 sewage treatment plants. For 24X7 water supply, additional water will be required from Bhama Askhed and Andra dams.
 
 Municipal commissioner Shravan Hardikar had earlier said there were several work mentioned in previous budgets. There is a shadow of uncertainty over those projects now, he said. “Of the 25 projects that were listed, only five were done. In the budget for 2018-19, every department will have a specific target. In every ward, an action plan will be prepared,” he said. 
 
 “For fringe village areas, there is substantial provision for land acquisition. A development plan will be prepared for Tathawade and other fringe areas,” Hardikar said. 
 
 PCMC received funds under the central government’s Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana, Swacch Bharat Abhiyan, Amrut, and Smart Cities Mission. “These funds will be utilized in the new financial year,” Hardikar said.
 
 
