NEW DELHI:   have approached the   seeking a   for   consumers. The power distribution companies said this would take care of a variety of issues related to e-vehicles, such as  , tariff incentives and infrastructure upgrade. 

 Discom officials believe that unless more incentives are given to consumers to switch to e-vehicles, the concept may not take off. In its 2017-18 tariff order, DERC had created a separate tariff category to promote e-vehicles, under which a flat rate of 5.50 per unit was fixed for their charging stations. The power companies said they wanted to take this further and set up more such stations for which additional incentives were required. DERC has allowed e-vehicles to be legally charged through domestic connections.
 
 A Tata Power Delhi official said the discoms were currently focusing on both creating the necessary charging infrastructure and upgrading the network to meet the enhanced load of electric vehicles. “Our focus is on providing sufficient infrastructure for electrified transportation. As the numbers increase, we anticipate to make distribution network upgrades and capacity additions to handle large charging loads at peak hours,” the official said.
 
 While electric vehicles can be charged whenever there is “surplus” power, their battery is useful in absorbing variable energy — both conventional and renewable. “They can even offer backup for the grid during emergencies. We should create a new electricity consumer category for EVs, one that includes aggressive time-of-day pricing (cheap charging when power is surplus, especially during night and off-peak time),” the official added.
 
 Tata Power Delhi has installed five charging stations in the city on a pilot basis. “We plan to install nearly 1,000 charging stations by 2021-22 to support growth of e-vehicles in Delhi. We are in talks with key stakeholders, including commercial complex owners, office complexes, DMRC and NDMC, for providing parking space to charge e-vehicles,” another official said. The discom is also developing end-to-end solutions to encourage consumers to opt for e-vehicles. 
 
