
 Cracking the civil services exams requires both money and professional guidance. Many aspirants from small towns, however, do not make it because of the lack of professional support while preparing for the exams. Shahjahanpur district magistrate  , who himself faced a similar situation, has decided to start special classes every Sunday to train the aspirants.
 
 The DM has involved an IAS trainee,  , who will conduct the classes every Sunday. Verma’s first class will be held at   here on Sunday.
  
 “Talent in small towns is often lost due to lack of support. Even I faced the same situation while I was in my hometown in Ranikhet (Uttarakhand). My fortunes changed after I joined Jawarharlal Nehru University and went to New Delhi,’’ said Tripathi.
  
 When he took charge in Shahjahanpur, Tripathi found that there were no professional coaching centres for preparing aspirants for civil service exams. Those who could afford would go to places like Kota, Delhi or Allahabad to pursue their dream. Others would simply give up after failing to make it in the exams.
  
 Till date, only four people have cleared in civil service exams from the district. All of them prepared for their exams in Delhi and Kota.
  
 Now, Tripathi hopes make a difference. It would be Verma’s responsibility to share his experience and knowledge with the aspirants besides identifying the candidates who have the potential of clearing the civil services examination.
  
 Tripathi said, “We will also provide career guidance to the youth. We also will provide financial support to poor students. My friends from various parts of the country have agreed to provide their professional guidance and support to potential candidates. We will see how this initiative works and there is a possibility that the classes will become permanent if it gives positive results.”
  
 Verma, 27, is expected to take such classes every Sunday until his training in Shahjahanpur is over. A 2017 batch IAS officer, Verma is currently under training in the treasury department. He belongs to Faizabad district of Uttar Pradesh and completed his B-Tech from IIT Roorkee.
  
  Speaking with TOI, Verma said, “I’ll be here in Shahjahanpur for almost a year. Since I have recently cleared my IAS exams and am more in touch with current trends of the exams, so Amrit sir asked me to utilize my Sundays in enhancing the skills of aspirants from Shahjahanpur.”
