NAGPUR: City CBSE Std XII students have demanded that the Economics paper re-exam slated for April 25 be cancelled. This comes on the heels of CBSE cancelling the Std X Math re-exam on Friday saying the paper leak was restricted to Delhi and Haryana. The Economics exam was held on March 26 and a paper leak was suspected in areas outside Delhi too.

 The students say in today’s digital age a paper leak cannot be restricted to a specific region and hence they too “must be spared from a re-exam and treated at par with their Std X counterparts”. 
 
 On Saturday morning, about 40 students reached Union minister Nitin Gadkari’s residence in the city seeking his intervention. One of them,  , said, “CBSE should take the same decision for us as they took for Std X children as the circumstances are the same. We came here today to let our voices be heard by   so that he raises it with the HRD minister.” 
 
 The students, who have come together on their own by forming a WhatsApp group, were unable to meet Gadkari as they did not have an appointment. But they submitted a memorandum of demands to his office. 
 
 Akshat Handa, another student who was part of the delegation, said, “We went again in the evening and his staff has fixed an appointment for Sunday morning. We are hoping for a positive outcome.”
 
 On Friday morning, around 250 parents of Std X students, who came together on social media, had met Gadkari at his residence.  , one of the parents, said, “Gadkari promised us a favourable decision and within a couple of hours the CBSE announced the decision of no re-exam.”
 
 Aditya Suryawanshi, another student, said, “Why is CBSE making us go through all this. We have to prepare for our CA entrances and even our tuitions will start by April 20.” 
 
 Atul Durugkar, a parent, said, “The entrance exam for state law colleges are slotted around that time and the Economics re-exam paper will hit the focus of students.” 
 
 Shubham Jain, a student, said, “The re-exam decision is totally unfair as we had studied hard for it before it was held on March 26. Just because some people took advantage of the leaked papers why should all of us appear for the exam again.” 
 
 His classmate   said, “The re-exam is not justified as none of us were even aware of the leak. We have worked too hard for this exam and it wont be fair to make us go through all that again.” 
 
 
