PUNE: “Mhorkya” director Amar Deokar sold his two acres of land in   in Solapur district to fund his first film which won the best children's film award and a special mention at the 65th National Film Awards announced on Friday. 

 “Kachcha Limbu”, directed by Prasad Oak, also a debutant, won the best Marathi film award.
 
 Mhorkya, played by  , is the journey of Ashya, a 14-year-old sheep header, and his wish to become the leader of the school’s parade. The story is a metaphorical representation of the system.
 
  
 “Kachcha Limbu” is based on a Marathi novel by Jaywant Dalvi. The film portrays the world of the Katdare couple and their mentally challenged child.
 
 “Sairat” fame Nagraj Manjule bagged the best director award in the non-feature category for his short film “Pavasacha Nibandha”. Another Pune-based director Nipun Dharmadhikari won the Nargis Dutt award for “Dhappa” in the best film promoting national integration slot.
 
 Deokar, an alumnus of the department of media and communication at  , said his film was shot entirely in Solapur. 
 
 “It took me three years to make the film, produced by Mr Padal. But we were still short of funds. I then sold my land to live my dream,” he told TOI. 
 
 He used the Rs 16 lakh from the sale to complete the film. It won the audience choice award at Pune International Film Festival in January.
 
 Dhappa director, Nipun Dharmadhikari, is also a first-time filmmaker. “We have 19 debutant children working in the film. The theme is national integration from their viewpoint. This award is a pleasant surprise,” he said.
 
 Oak said, “It is a great honour to receive the national award and I am absolutely thrilled. Honestly, every filmmaker hopes he wins this award. It's a dream come true.”
 
 The audiographer award went to Avinash Sonawane for “Pavsacha Nibandha”. Sonawane said, “This short film was interesting. I enjoy working for both feature and short films.”
 
 Suyash Shinde, a dentist, won an award for the best short in the fiction film. He said, “The National Award is the biggest honour. I am a full-time dentist, with no formal training in cinema. So, the award is special.”
 
 
