Music has played an integral role in romance since time immemorial and the trend shows no signs of backing down anytime soon. Considering the fact that we can’t really let go of a crush without carefully creating an emotion-filled and passion-packed playlist, it’s time to go behind-the-scenes to unravel the factors that goes into the making of the perfect love song.

 
 
 From hearts cartwheeling to till-death-do-us-apart intensity — romance may seem to sway from one end of the spectrum to another, but, in reality, is simple and basic at the core. Most composers and singers feel that it is this effortless purity at the core that helps to create romantic songs. Composer-singer and song writer Vishal Mishra explains, “Love is one of the simplest emotions in the world – you can see that in old songs like 'Abhi Naa Jao Chod Kar, Ke Dil Abhi Bhara Nahi'. It was the simplicity of this song that created the magic.”
 
 In the last few years,   that have worked had lyrics that you could relate to. “They were songs that had melody that you could hum and easily sing along to. Take 'Channa Mereya' for example — every emotion portrayed in the song has been lived by almost all of us. And it’s easily the most sung song in any ‘we are drunk let’s sing along’ house party,” notes lyricist Abhiruchi Chand.
 
 Composer duo   say that when it comes to composing love songs, they most certainly go for soulful melodies, a rule they have stuck to over the years. Darshan  , singer-composer-lyricist, also roots for simplicity, adding that romance is a natural emotion and should be portrayed as such way in songs. He says, “There is no other formula that will work for a love song. Since love is an universal emotion, one needs to keep it very connected.” 
 
 
 
 Every love song till date has either had a searing intensity that touches you, or a soulful vibe that unfailingly stays with you forever. Composer Sachin Sanghvi says, “It is important to have a unique way to say the good old three words, ‘I love you’. Romantic songs need to have a repeat value or at least, ‘I won’t get tired with this song’ kind of vibe. Ballads were mostly used in the 80s and 90s, but since 2000, we have heard love songs with dance vibe do well as well.”
 
 
 
 Besides capturing the simplicity of the emotion through words and music, lyrics also keep the characters, who will be lip-syncing those words on screen, in mind. Says Abhiruchi, “The brief given by the filmmaker and the character, who will be singing the song, is kept in mind, while creating a romantic song. While the brief decides what the song will talk about, the characters decides how it will be told. For example if the character is a poet, his way of saying ‘I love you’ will be different from the way a lumpen character says it. You have to understand the zubaan of your characters.”
 
 
 
 Both lyrics and music have important and distinct roles to play when it comes to making a love song work. Abhiruchi states, “Music decides how hummable a song is, and whether it has the potential to be an ear worm or no. Music without lyrics will still be music, but lyrics without music will just be a piece of poetry.” 
 
 Musician Clinton Cerejo adds, “When writing a love song, it really helps to tap into your life experience. Think of the moment you fell in love for the first time and how it made you feel. The melody should always be led by that feeling. If you can bring about that intensity in the music, then you’re pretty much home.” For Salim, it’s all about capturing that beautiful feeling. “We’d compose a beautiful melody, which is simple yet soulful with great poetry that touches you,” he says.
 
 
 
 The thing about romantic songs is that they can go with any genre of music — be it slow rock, pop, house, acoustic, slow alternative rock or EDM — love songs can fit in. Most composers and musicians feel that any genre can be romantic, as long as it captures the emotion of romance. Darshan, however, feels that pop music expresses love the best. 
 
  Clinton adds, “Acoustic rock with modern elements are the current sound of love songs in the country. But there are no rules. If you can make someone feel intensely happy or wistful, nostalgic or intoxicated, then the genre you choose to communicate that feeling doesn’t really matter.” Vishal adds, “Sometimes I make EDM or ballet track which can be quite romantic too.” 
 
 Composer Mannan Shah says, “Our film romantic songs are mostly inclined to be soft rock, rock and pop. In fact, I’m now kicked about experimenting with it in contemporary jazz and blues.”
 
 
 
 
