MOHALI:   police have once again availed the non-bailable arrest warrants of   chairman Lt Col Baljit Singh   . He has been named in the death case of CTU employee Abhishek Guleria. 

 Rubbishing the claims of Mohali police to have attained the fresh non-bailable warrants against Sandhu on April 25, Sandhu's lawyer Raman Walia said, "Police is lying at every step. They had already got the arrest warrants re-issued on April 18, not on April 26. As the duration of the arrest warrants is 14 days, so it had to be re-issued. He is not well and will join the investigations, once doctors allow him from the health point of view."
 
 However, police is firm on their stand that fresh warrants have been issued recently from Kharar court. 
 
 Earlier, police had attained the arrest warrants of Sandhu on March 31 but Special Investigation Team (SIT) failed to arrest Sandhu till date. The lookout notice against Sandhu was also issued by police on March 27, but Sandhu has failed to join the investigations till now.
 
 Sandhu was nominated in the FIR following the disclosure statement of the three accused arrested earlier in this connection. Guleria was found dead on March 25, after going missing since March 13. CIA had arrested three employees for allegedly dumping Abhishek's body at the forest area on Pinjore-Baddi Road. 
 
 On Saturday, the SIT constituted to probe the case revisited the spot at Forest Hill Resort in Nayagaon where Guleria was reportedly murdered.
 
 The SIT team now led by IG (Ropar range) V Neerja along with SSP Mohali Kuldeep Singh Chahal and SP (detective) Harbir Singh Atwal visited the spot where Guleria was drowned in STP water tank and was fished out by the three employees of Forest Hill Resort. Later, the employees allegedly wrapped up the body and dumped it at forest area on Pinjore-Baddi road.
 
 Back-to-back searches and raids conducted by the SIT to arrest Sandhu have turned futile.
 
 Suddenly, Lt Col Sandhu's statement has become an important tool in the case. SIT head IG V Neerja said, "At present, we are working on it as a murder case. It will be conclusive once we record the statement of Lt Col Sandhu after he is arrested. The motive of the crime is also yet to be ascertained. It is certain that the employees would obey what their employer say to them and in audio recording of mobile conversation, Sandhu has been heard directing one of his employees to go as per plan. Searches are on to trace the whereabouts of Sandhu at present."
 
 
