JAIPUR: The Anti-Corruption Bureau ( ), Jodhpur on Monday said that some more middlemen are likely to be arrested for allegedly asking hefty bribes from Pakistani-Hindu immigrants for extending VISAs. Sleuths said that it is a larger syndicate racket which they are peeling up further.

 
 On Saturday the ACB had quizzed four more middlemen, just a day after they had arrested a senior secretariat assistant (SSA)   (50), who was posted with the ministry of home affairs, for demanding bribes from Pakistani migrants. Three middlemen were also arrested from the same hotel during a raid.
 
 “Lot more needs to be investigated through interrogation. How they used to sit on various files of Pakistani-Hindu immigrants wishing to get their visa extended until they get clearance on their Indian citizenship,” said  , DIG, ACB, Jodhpur on Monday.
 
 Taking cognizance of the matter ACB had already arrested four accused under Prevention of Corruption Act.
 
 In an another development, the ministry of home affairs on Monday ordered an internal inquiry into the entire process of granting long-term visa to Pakistani immigrants after the arrest of one of its officials by Jodhpur ACB. The ministry has also ordered officials to clear the pending cases of Pakistani immigrants applying for Indian citizenship or extending long-term visa. “We are conducting an internal inquiry into the allegation that a ministry official demanded and accepted bribe from Pakistani immigrants. We are taking action to find out the loopholes and to plug them,” a home ministry official said.
 
 PK Mishra, a senior secretariat assistant in the foreigners division of the home ministry was arrested along with three others on Friday.
 
 The home ministry was awaiting a report from the Rajasthan police on the arrests and the alleged racket of ‘bribe-for-visa’, another official said.
 
 Hindu Singh Sodha, president, Lok Seemant Sanghtan, an organization fighting for the rights of migrants, said that for past several years, many of the immigrants have been paying bribes for extension of their long-term visa. “A streamlined mechanism should have been set up by now to ensure that nobody has to pay bribe,” he said.
 
