Nagpur: 32-year-old Nilesh Shinde drowned in Telangkhedi Lake after jumping into it along with wife Rupali (29) and their four-year-old daughter Nihali in the early hours of Saturday. The bodies were fished out by fire brigade personnel around 9am.  Nilesh and the families of his brother Naresh, their parents used to reside together at a colony close to the lake. Cops are yet to ascertain the reason behind the extreme step. Relatives say Shinde may have committed suicide due to a family feud. No suicide note was found in Nilesh’s scooter or at his residence. Unconfirmed police sources said Nilesh had owed people money after indulging in cricket betting. Nilesh worked at a mobile shop at Ravi Nagar Square. Rupali had joined a hospital as a nurse but had to discontinue the job due to family pressure. The couple had an arranged marriage around five years back. Nilesh’s friends, who TOI met at the mortuary, said he had met them on Friday but had not shared any problems if any.  One of Shindes’ neighbours woke up from his sleep at the sound of a scooter being started around 3am. Family sources say the trio must have left the house at that time. The family came to know about their absence at 7am when Naresh went to their room for the scooter keys. As the family started searching for the three, its members spotted the scooter with Rupali's jacket on it near the Futala Lake T-point. Soon, the Ambazari police summoned the fire brigade. First Nihali's body was fished out followed by Rupali and Nilesh. Rupali's mother Sandhya Shrinagre blamed Naresh, his three married sisters and married daughter, who resided separately, for the tragedy. “Naresh, his daughter and the sisters-in-law used to mentally torture my daughter. They too interfered in her personal life,” she said. Sandhya claimed that Nilesh’s parents did not trouble Rupali. “My daughter wanted to part ways from her in-laws but Nilesh was not keen,” she said. She added that there were many meetings to settle the issue. “My daughter was made to work like a domestic help. She used to shoulder the responsibility of the house. Yet, Naresh wouldn’t be happy with her. Rupali wanted to shift to the first floor but the family objected to their staying separately,” said Sandhya. Family sources claimed everything seemed okay on Friday evening. Rupali had dinner and then went to bed. She later woke up to serve Nilesh dinner around 11pm. Then, the couple and Nihali retired for the night. Ambazari police have so far registered the case as an accidental death.