VIJAYAWADA/  : Giving a mammoth push to   to garner big-ticket investments, Reliance Industries Limited on Sunday signed agreements with the state government, promising investments of Rs 52,000 crore in oil and gas and electronics sectors.

 Reliance will invest Rs 37,000 crore in oil and gas venture in AP and another Rs 15,000 crore in an electronics manufacturing plant near   airport, spurring creation of 25,000 jobs from these ventures.
  
  
 The MoUs followed a crucial meeting between Reliance Industries Limited chairman   and Chief Minister N   in   on February 13.
 
 The MoUs were signed by Reliance president Kiran Thomas and principal secretaries Ajay Jain and K Vijayanand in the presence of Naidu on second day of the partnership summit in Visakhapatnam on Sunday.
 
 Reliance Jio, on the other hand, will establish an electronics 150-acre manufacturing park near Tirupati in Chittoor district to manufacture 10 lakh Jio phones and set-top boxes.
 
 
 
 
 Though MoUs are in preliminary stage, Reliance will soon come up with blueprints for investment, sources in the IT department said.
 
 This has come as a shot in the arm for IT minister Nara Lokesh, who has been lobbying for investments for four months. He met Ambani in Mumbai in October last year when the company was planning to pump investments in other states and AP was nowhere in the running. “Since then IT minister held series of meetings with representatives of the company. Negotiations were kept under wraps as government did not want competition,” said sources in IT department.
 
 A working group was created between company representatives and state IT department officials for negotiations. “Hyderabad is synonymous with  . We explained to Reliance that the AP will be known for Reliance,” Lokesh told TOI.
 
 The MoUs said AP government and Reliance has agreed on importance of digital infrastructure, citizen services and industrial development in Andhra Pradesh and welcomed mutual cooperation for facilitating investments.
 
 
 
