In T20 cricket and especially in the   the momentum shifts almost in the blink of an eye. So the  , who had been stumbling at the start of the tournament suddenly seem to have found their way and are gathering steam and winning matches at a canter. 

 
 
 
 Their last game against the Kings XI Punjab definitely had some needle in it looking at the way the Bangalore boys were pointing a finger in the dugout region at someone after every wicket they took.
 
 Whatever it was, the players were charged up and sometimes it is simply that kind of an incentive to prove somebody wrong that works very well for a team. The Bangalore boys look very good and now that their bowlers have also decided to join the party, they could well be in the playoffs come next week.
 
  
  
 
 The Sunrisers stumbled in their last game with their bowlers getting a bit carried away by the bounce that the pitch gave and losing their restricting line and length in the bargain. 
 
 Their strength has been the tight lines they have bowled and while their fielding could do with more improvement, they will also need more runs from the middle order.   and Shikhar Dhawan can't be the mainstays all the time.
 
 The pitches for this IPL have been terrific and   needs to be complimented for providing pitches where the ball has not turned from ball one and where it has come on to the bat nicely with a true bounce and where the batsmen can play on the rise without too much worry about sideways movement. 
 
 Unfortunately, the extra bounce has also found out some of the Ranji Trophy 'dadas' who have floundered against the short ball and with some of them being India prospects, it doesn't augur well especially for the tour later in the year to Australia where the bounce will be even more.
 
 The T20 format does give the batsman a license to step away and look for the big shots, but the experienced watcher knows which is a genuine attempt to accelerate the scoring and which is a cop out against the fast bowlers.
 
 The Sunrisers will want to get their winning rhythm back but they are up against a side that is finally in sync with their skipper and looking to make up for lost time.
 
