LUDHIANA: In a bizarre turn of events, the only .22 caliber target shooting pistol belonging to Ludhiana’s lone shooting range has been confiscated by   citing election code.

 The pistol, which was in the name of the shooting coach, was seized on Wednesday.
 
 Even though government-appointed coach Gurjeet Singh at the Punjab sports department shooting range at Narangwal (30km from here) tried to convince police officials that this pistol was only meant for training of players, the cops said they were duty-bound to seize all personal weapons, until the elections were over.
 
 Due to seizure of the pistol, the practice session of the players has been affected.
 
 Sources said the   of the India provides exemption to sports lovers to keep rifles or pistols for practice or for participation in sports events.
 
 Gurjeet Singh, head coach of Punjab Sports Department shooting range, said despite getting an exemption from the EC to shooting fraternity, the local police department seized the only .22 target shooting pistol after the code of conduct came into force across the district.
 
 Local shooters used the pistol for practicing for 50m air pistol event in the shooting range.
 
 “On Wednesday, I submitted the pistol to local police officials after I got an official’s call to submit the same on a priority basis. Though I mentioned about the exemption provided by the EC, local police officials seized our only pistol, citing the order of the higher authorities,” said Gurjeet Singh, coach.
 
 “For the past two days, several players who come to practise for 50m rifle shooting event have been sitting idle.
 
 Kartar Singh Sahmbay, assistant director, sports, said, “The matter has come to my notice. We will soon take up the matter with the police commissioner and ask for his personal intervention in getting back the pistol, so that players can resume their practice.”
 
 Ludhiana police commissioner   said, “The police department will soon take appropriate measures in this regard and provide immediate relief to shooting fraternity people as per the norms.”
 
 
