PANAJI: The state government has decided to expedite the forest rights settlement claims with the department of revenue and department of tribal welfare holding a joint meeting on Friday to review the claims settlement process. Of the 9,758 claims received by the state government, 504 have been deemed to be clear for issuing of sanads, said minister for tribal welfare  .

 “We had promised to make sure forest rights claims could be settled quickly. The revenue department and tribal department has been working on this for the last seven to eight months,” state revenue minister   added.
 
 
  
 
 Of the 9,758 claims received from individuals seeking rights to cultivate on forest land, the forest department has conducted spot verification for 2,782. Of these, 1,034 claims have been placed before gram sabhas for discussion and approvals. After proper hearings at gram sabhas, 675 claims have got unanimous approvals while 50 claims have been rejected. Based on this, 610 claims have been sent to the sub-division level committee, said Gaude, while adding that these cases need to be expedited. 
 
 Representatives from departments such as forest, tribal welfare , panchayat, revenue and survey were present for the meeting which was held at the ministerial block at the secretariat complex at  . During the meeting, attempts were made to address the concerns raised by all the departments.
 
 “There have been proper guidelines to be laid down, shortfall, coordination and other issues which were leading to delays. That is why we had a meeting today to take review of the whole forest rights claims to look into the issue of forest dwellers or claims that have not been settled,”   said.
 
 The revenue minister added that once the sub-divisional steering committee, which is headed by the deputy collector and comprises members of various departments, gives its approval the claims will be sent to the district collector for issuance of sanads.
 
 “The people who could not get sanad, whose claims were not being approved and who had other grievances, they are being looked at. Ownership of land will come through the sanad. The rights of the land will go to them,” Khaunte said.
 
 Gaude told reporters that the Scheduled Tribes and Other Traditional Forest Dwellers (Recognition of Forest Rights) Act is not only for tribals but also for other dwellers, who have been cultivating on forest land for years.
 
 
