Bengaluru: A 24-year-old, who spent four years to complete his II PU education, is all set to complete his under-graduation as a  .

 Dhanush N L, a student of Acharya Institute of Graduate Studies, who pursued bachelors degree in computer applications, will receive four gold medals from Bangalore University at its 53rd convocation on Thursday. 
 
 “I never expected to receive even a single medal. Though I was interested in computer science, I failed in all four subjects in II PU,” said Dhanush, who hails from Sakleshpur. He feels that moving from Hassan to Bengaluru was a turning point. 
 
 “When I began my college studies, I got the best environment in the city and a homely feeling at my institution,” he added. Now Dhanush, son of an agriculturalist, plans to pursue masters in automotive software engineering in Germany. 
 
 Meanwhile, Gurunath Kusali of mechanical engineering department, University Visvesvaraya College of Engineering, will be awarded three gold medals. “I was sure to get at least one gold, but three is overwhelming,” he said.
 
 Sai Jyothi Sanmati from VVS First Grade College for Women is the recipient of BU’s maximum cash prize of Rs 10,000. She plans to use the money to to pursue law and English literature. 
 
 55k to graduate today 
 
 A total of 55,780 students will graduate from BU on Thursday. Among them 268 students will receive cash prizes while 112 of them will be awarded gold medals. 
 
 Girls continue the trend of outshining their male counterparts, with 48 of them bagging gold compared to 31 boys. Also, 158 doctoral students will receive PhD certificates from the university. 
 
 BU in-charge vice-chancellor Prof V Sudhesh said Rs 2 lakh has been demarcated for the cash prize. 
 
 Recently, the university was caught in a controversy when it had asked gold medallists to pay Rs 500 to compensate the cost of medals. 
 
 However, the varsity dropped the idea and informed students that the money would be reimbursed. 
 
 “We are in the process of returning the money to all the students. It will be completed shortly after the convocation is over,” Prof Sudhesh added.
 
 
