NEW DELHI: Fuel pricing reforms appear to be sputtering as state-run fuel retailers are moderating their daily upward revision in pump prices on verbal nudge from the oil ministry as global crude markets remain on fire.

 
 But in spite of the government's intervention,   price rose to 71 a litre on Monday and   jumped to Rs 61.74 in Delhi where fuel rates are the cheapest among four metros due to low state taxes.
 
 The spark for the record price came from the 'Indian Basket' – the mix of crude bought by Indian refiners – rising to $67.32 per barrel on the back of international benchmark Brent crude, which makes up about a quarter of India's crude purchase, hitting $69.71 on Friday, the last closing price for setting Monday's pump prices. On Monday, Brent was hovering back at $70 a barrel, the highest level since 2014.
 
 Sources said the ministry had passed verbal instructions for moderation in price revision to fuel retailers in September after pump prices started rising from August 2017, stoking popular anger and demand for cut in excise duty, which was raised on petrol by Rs 11.77 per litre and diesel by Rs 13.47 a litre between November 2014 and January 2016 when oil prices began tapering off since 2014.
 
 In an indication of the government's growing unease over the adverse political impact of rising oil prices, the Centre cut excise duty on motor fuels by Rs 2 a litre on October 3. The same month, the ministry ordered the fuel retailers to stop raising the price of subsidised cooking gas refills for households by Rs 4 a month, another reform that was aimed at wiping out fuel subsidy.
 
 The sources said after the ministry's nudge, the companies were playing on the currency exchange rate to confine the increase within a few paise and absorbing the remaining loss, which may reduce their profit.
 
 Officially, the ministry does not control pricing of petrol and diesel. Petrol was deregulated by the UPA government in June 2010 and diesel by the NDA government in October 2014. Besides, they say crude price is only an element of retail rates that are guided more by product prices in regional trading hubs such as Singapore.
 
 Oil prices have been steadily rising since January 2017 after  , the grouping of oil exporting countries accounting for 40 per cent of global supplies, and Russia agreed in November 2016 to cut back production by 1.8 million barrels per day, or a little less than half of India's daily demand, to suck out excess supply in the market. The upward movement gathered pace after November 30 last year after the oil producers decided to extend the production cut through 2018.
 
