NEW DELHI: The Delhi   on Tuesday asked the   (EC) to   facts that led it to   20 AAP MLAs for holding  .

 A bench of justices Sanjiv Khanna and Chander Shekhar asked the poll panel to file an affidavit in this regard, after EC sought to respond to some of the allegations made by the MLAs in their plea challenging their disqualification from the Delhi Assembly.
 
 During the hearing, the commission told the court it will rely upon the opinion it gave to the President to disqualify the 20 MLAs who were appointed as parliamentary secretaries.
 
 When the matter was taken up for hearing first, the court asked the petitioners to go through the poll panel’s synopsis of the case and then decide if an affidavit is required. After a gap, the matter was taken up again after the petitioners went through the EC’s synopsis.
 
 In the second round of proceedings, the bench said that the 250-page long synopsis, containing various documents, was too big and asked the EC to file a shorter one on affidavit. “A synopsis of 250 pages. It cannot be that big,” the court observed.
 
 After the brief proceedings, the court listed the matter for further hearing on February 7, by when the MLAs have to file their responses to the EC affidavit.
 
 It allowed advocate Prashant Patel, on whose plea the EC had recommended the MLAs disqualification that received the presidential nod, to state his stand on the MLAs’ pleas.
 
 The court also extended till February 7 the interim order restraining the EC from issuing any notification announcing by-elections to fill the vacancies of the 20 assembly seats.
 
 The matter was transferred to a division bench on Monday after Patel moved an application for transfer of the petitions to a division bench.
 
 The high court had on January 24 refused to stay the Centre’s notification disqualifying the MLAs, but restrained the EC from taking any “precipitate measures” like announcing dates for by-polls.
 
 It had earlier summoned the entire records pertaining to the proceedings leading to the recommendation of the EC for the disqualification of the 20 legislators which received the President’s assent on January 20.
 
