You have been a lefty your entire life and suddenly, you are asked to do everything using your right hand. That’s how different, difficult and challenging it has been to get trained under a Serbian coach,” begins Srividhya Venkatraman, who recently played in the  , held at the   in the city. “The techniques and methods are totally new to us. We have been following the Indian method all these years, and when we are introduced to the international style, we found it difficult to excel in just two months. We still need a lot of training and practice,” says the student from MOP Vaishnav College For Women, who has been playing   since her school days.

  
  
 Speaking on the basketball culture in the state, Srividhya says, “Five years ago, the sport wasn’t that well recognised. We didn’t have proper coaching or access to basic amenities like a basketball court, jerseys, accommodation, food or even water bottles. Things have changed so much today that we have residential camps and we are being trained by an international coach.” 
 
 
 She has been playing in the senior nationals since class XI and this was her fifth senior nationals. She admires Arjuna Awardee Geethu Anna Jose, who she says is her biggest inspiration. “My aim is to play for our country,” she gleams. 
 
  
 For P Baladhaneshwar, M Harish, Mukund Chari and H Muinbek from the men’s team, who won the national championship this year, getting trained by the new coach has been a great learning experience. “European style is a whole new ball game altogether and getting used to it took us around a week or two. It’s a lot different from what we have been following earlier,” says Harish from DG Vaishnav College. Muinbek from Jeppiaar Institute of Technology adds that it’s more like a team game and not all about individual scores.
  
  
 Mukund and Baladhaneshwar from Loyola College feel that it is great to play and win the game when it is organised in their hometown. “Now that we have facilities in place and have received support from the association, we will work harder to give our best and represent our country,” they say in chorus.
 
 — Purnima.Sah@timesgroup.com
 
 
