NEW DELHI: The big number of officials in the list of Indian contingent for the Gold Coast Commonwealth Games has led to raised eyebrows.

  has forwarded the list to the sports ministry, which includes 222 athletes and as many as 106 officials. The list provided has names of 57 coaches, 19 doctors and physios, seven managers and 41 others/extra officials, including chef de mission Vikram Sisodia.
 
 
 
 Beyond that, some names in the list and some missing from it could lead to further controversy According to the list accessed by TOI, IOA has named Pradeep Sreedharan as coach of the swimming contingent. Sreedharan is neither associated with the team as coach nor was he a part of the national camp. In fact, he is based out of Dubai which has been clearly mentioned in the list submitted to the ministry. Sreedharan was associated with the team as chief national coach some years ago, and then moved to Dubai. However, he remains in the good books of the federation which is evident from his selection for CWG.
 
 
 
 According to insiders, the federation had utilised his services at a 20-day training camp in June-July last year, ahead of the Asian championships. Since then, no national camp has been organised for the country’s swimmers in the absence of a chief coach and they have been left to train on their own.
 
 Virdhawal Khade, Sajan Prakash and promising youngster Srihari Nataraj will represent the country in Gold Coast. While Khade has been training in Bengaluru with his personal coach, Prakash had set up his training base in the United States before recently moving to Dubai, informed an official in the know of developments. If Sreedharan’s name is cleared, he will directly join the team in Australia.
 
 In another controversial decision, IOA has decided against sending any official - including coaches - with the seven-member gymnastics contingent. Bisheswar Nandi, the celebrated coach of Dipa Karmakar and Aruna Reddy among others will not be there to guide or comfort the gymnasts during competition. The cycling contingent also does not have any coach accompanying it.
 
 “This has been done by IOA to accommodate its own officials. IOA has drastically cut down the number of team managers. Only managers are going. IOA wants more of its officials to travel to Gold Coast since they have found sponsors,” said a federation official.
 
 It’s been learnt that in almost all disciplines, extra physios and masseurs who have been named. Even the para athletes seem to have got a raw deal. The   (PCI) did not organise a single preparatory camp for the CWG-bound para-swimmers. Kiran Tak and Vaishnavi Jagtap are part of the eight-member para-athlete contingent, which will represent the country at the CWG. Kiran is training on her own in Gandhinagar while Vaishnavi is preparing in Nagpur.
 
 Amidst all these issues, it’s important to mention that sports minister Rajyavardhan Singh Rathore has not cleared the contingent list.
 
