Gurgaon: A 28-year-old OYO Rooms’ demand manager was arrested on Wednesday for allegedly raping a 22-year-old woman at a hotel in Sector 45. The woman told cops she and her husband were staying at Emaar Residency for the past month. During the period, the couple had been booking a fresh room in the hotel every day. 

 “We’re Gurgaon residents. I wasn’t keeping well for a few days, so I wanted to return to my maternal home in UP. My husband persuaded me to stay a few days in a hotel, recover from my illness and then travel. On Sunday, we made a fresh booking through the OYO app and met the manager of the hotel, Vikrant, at 5.25pm. Raghav, who is a OYO Rooms’ demand manager, was also present in Vikrant’s cabin at the time. After informing them about the booking, my husband left for work and I returned to the room,” she said. 
 
 “Around 9pm, Raghav came to my room and said we’d have to shift to a different room. He offered to help me carry our luggage, but I said I wanted to wait till my husband returned, as I wasn’t feeling well and wanted to rest. At 11pm, he again approached me but I sent him back, as my husband hadn’t returned. But at 11.45pm, when there was a knock at the door, I thought my husband was back. But it was Raghav standing at the door, and before I could tell him anything, he barged inside the room. I was so weak, I fell down and lost consciousness,” she added. 
 
 According to cops, the woman regained her senses after a while and realised she had been raped. 
 
 The undergarment she was wearing had been washed and kept by her side. She called Raghav, who at first denied the allegation but later owned up to his crime when she threatened to filing a police complaint. The woman and her husband then approached Sector 40 police station on Tuesday and filed a complaint against the accused. 
 
 An FIR under Section 376 (rape) of the IPC was registered and Raghav was arrested from his Ghamroj village home on Wednesday. 
 
 “The accused has confessed to his crime. He will be produced in a city court on Thursday,” said sub-inspector Manjusha, the investigating officer. 
 
 Meanwhile, Emaar Residency manager Vikrant said, “I wasn’t there at the hotel when the crime happened. The couple has been staying at the hotel for the past month or so, and all verifications were done while allotting them rooms.” 
 
 Vikrant added that as per rules, a demand manager from OYO visits the hotel to check if all arrangements are up to the mark, but Raghav had been staying in the hotel for the past three days. 
 
 An OYO statement said: “We are deeply saddened by this unfortunate incident at Emaar Residency and will continue to extend our full support to police in their probe. Further, we will do everything possible to ensure the affected gets justice and will do everything in our might to ensure it. Safety of guests and especially women staying with us or working with us is of paramount importance. We have a stringent zero-tolerance policy in this regard for our hotel partners as well. As the matter is under investigation, we have suspended the employee in question and will cooperate with the authority. ”
 
 It also claimed that Emaar Residency wasn’t a OYO-owned hotel rather a partner on franchise model.
 
 
