KOCHI: The high court has imposed a fine of Rs 50,000 on the   ( ) for making appointments by misinterpreting the court’s order and then trying to put the blame on the court.

 
 A division bench comprising Justice P R   and Justice   also severely criticized the CDB for making permanent the temporary appointments of five assistant engineers and then claiming that it was as per the court’s directive. While ordering CDB to pay the fine, the court said it is a deterrent and the board would use any indulgence by the court as a licence in the future.
 
 “All that this court directed the board was to see whether there was any requirement for the continuation of these five officers but nothing was stated in the said order regarding their appointment on a permanent basis. This order, we must say very painfully, has been misinterpreted by the CDB in their attempt to grant permanency to these engineers and the stand of the CDB that they did not deem it necessary to obtain permission from this court to do so on account of this order will have to be viewed with a great amount of pejoration,” the judgment said.
 
 “We are distressed that the CDB has acted in such fashion with an unmistakable guile of having the irregular appointments ratified and then place the blame on the shoulders of this court. We express our strongest disapproval of such attitude and words fail us in trying to express our disfavour in such circumstances,” it added.
 
 However, the court did not set aside the appointments as CDB informed that there is a certain requirement of five engineers and as the statement was uncontested by the petitioner in the case, who was an employee who was denied in-service promotion due to the appointments. The court also noted that they were appointed after a selection process in which 37 others were also assessed and that no complaints have been raised regarding their performance in their 12-year service.
 
 It was alleged by the petitioner that the five persons are related directly or indirectly to the present or past chairpersons or office bearers of CDB. Through an affidavit, CDB had controverted it. As CDB’s claims were not disputed and nothing was placed before the court to show that they are not true, the court said it is leaving it there and is considering the contentions as unsubstantiated.
 
 
