JAIPUR: In support of the 10-day nationwide ‘Gaon Bandh’,   from many districts of   staged protests on Friday and stopped trucks supplying milk and vegetables to draw attention to their woes.

 
 Farmers in  , Hanumangarh, Jhunjhunu, Jaipur, Sikar, Bikaner and Nagaur spilled milk, vegetables on roads and highways. In some places like   in Jaipur, farmers tried to forcefully shut
 
 the market. In Sriganganagar too, farmers had a heated argument with mandi and wholesaler dealers. Speaking to TOI over phone, Santveer Singh, member of  , said that the bandh was successful in northern Rajasthan. “Farmers in Sriganganagar and Hanumangarh have set up their stalls to sell vegetables and milk at relatively cheaper prices. We are not allowing vegetables and milk tankers to enter cities,” Singh said.
 
 
 
 
 Farmers across many districts of Rajasthan on Friday staged protests and stopped trucks supplying milk and vegetables to support a nationwide 10-day “Gaon Bandh” protest to draw the government’s attention to their woes.
 
 
 The farmers in Sriganganagar, Hanumangarh, Jhunjhunu, Jaipur, Sikar, Bikaner and Nagaur spilled milk, vegetables on roads and highways. At some places like Chomu in Jaipur, the farmers tried to forcefully shut the market. In Sriganganagar too, farmers had a heated argument with mandi and wholesaler dealers.
 
 Speaking to TOI over phone, Santveer Singh, member of Rashtriya Kisan Mahasangh, said that bandh was a successful in northern Rajasthan. “We have begun our agitation as part of a nationwide 10-day Gaon Bandh protest. Farmers in Sriganganagar and Hanumangarh have set up their stalls where they are selling vegetables and milk at relatively cheaper price. We are not allowing vegetables and milk tankers to enter into cities,” Singh said.
 
 Farmer leaders said that they have been demanding loan waiver, minimum support price for their produces and implementation of   committee recommendations.
 
 Hanumangarh district collector   that situation is under control and the district administration is in talks with cooperative societies to ensure supply of vegetables like potato and onion in the city.
 
 The farmers across the state stopped milk tankers of different diary cooperatives in order to stop the supply of milk products. The officials told TOI that while there was enough supply of milk for Friday and Saturday, the situation can become complex if the agitation continues.
 
 “The rural areas will not be affected, but if the farmers remain adamant not to allow supply of milk and vegetables, then we will have to explore for alternatives,” he said, adding that at many pockets of state, the farmers refused to give daily supply of milk to the federations.
 
