The counselling for AP Engineering Agricultural and Medical Common Entrance Test (Eamcet) will be held from May 28-31. Human Resource Development minister Ganta Srinivasa Rao finalized the dates on Wednesday night following deliberations with officials of higher education.

 Students can select the colleges in the order of their priority from May 30 to June 2. Students desirous of making any changes to their colleges can do so on June 3. Seats will be alloted to the students on June 5 after 6.00 pm, and classes will begin from June 12.
 
 In order to expedite the admission process and to implement paperless administration, the verification of the student data, required for Eamcet counselling, will be done online this year with the help of various government organizations, according to Andhra Pradesh State Council of Higher Education (APSCHE). The latter has decided upon the important parameters for allotment of seats. 
 
 Eligible candidates can participate in the web counselling for the seats available in engineering and pharmacy colleges in the state by paying a processing fee of Rs 1,200 (OC/BC), and Rs 600 (SC/ST). Students whose data have been verified will be able to see them displayed in the candidate registration tab. In case of any mistake or if candidates want to change any data, they can approach the nearest helpline centre for correction or updating of data with necessary identity proofs.
 
 Upon confirming the data on display, a login id will be created for them and it will be sent to their phone numbers. Students will then have to create a password to log into their accounts. They can then enter their college and course options in the order of priority. 
 
 Students whose data are not verified by APSCHE will have to go to the helpline centres and get their data verified. Students from other states, who have taken the exam, come under this category, as their certificates cannot be verified online by APSCHE. The centres will also assist candidates in correcting any of their data. Nine helpline centres will operate this year. The centres are located at Andhra University, Acharya Nagarjuna University, Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University (JNTU)– Kakinada, JNTU – Ananthapur, Sri Venkateswara University, Tirupati, Rayalaseema University, Kurnool, YSR Engineering College, Proddatur, Andhra Loyola College, Vijayawada, and SRR & CVR Government Degree College, Vijayawada.
 
 
