GURUGRAM:   2 residents and RWA members said that a new settlement with 100   was raised between December 22 and 29 on 2 acres in the middle of B block, despite authorities being informed about it, days after TOI reported about the emergence of shanties in Q and I blocks.

 According to residents, the shanties were “illegally” raised by a private developer, though the plot is surrounded by proper residences. They said that they had informed the  , the   as well as the SDM about the issue but the construction work was not stopped. They also alleged that the MCG officials avoided appearing in court after the private developer, who owns the plot, took them to court over a notice warning of demolition. As a result, the court has put a stay on demolition of the hutments. However, the MCG officials disputed this allegation, saying they filed a reply in court on the same day.
 
 “On December 22, the owner got labourers to start construction work on the plot,” said Neeraj Sharma, president, RWA, South City 2. “We raised the issue with the relevant authorities. We sent letters to MCG district town planner Mohan Singh, DTP (enforcement) Rajendra Sharma and sub division magistrate Bharat Bhushan. All of them acknowledged the matter and confirmed the receiving of the letters.”
 
 Residents said that the MCG junior engineer used to come to the plot daily for inspection. “The developer got the settlement of 100 shanties built in one week, despite the MCG inspection. The shanty was built in phases: first, brick walls were built and then, corrugated tin sheets were used to cover these,” said a resident.
 
 When TOI spoke to Mohan Singh, he confirmed that he had received a complaint on the matter on December 22. “We also warned the developer that hutments would be demolished. But he went to court and it ruled in favour of status quo. The next hearing will be on January 23,” he said. Bharat Bhushan said that he had taken up the issue with MCG joint commissioner Gaurav Antil because the issue pertained to his jurisdiction.
 
 
