CHANDIGARH: To ensure vehicles plying on city roads meet the standard requirements for safe driving and emission parameters, the   administration has decided to set up automated inspection and certification (I&C) centre. 

 The transport department has prepared a proposal and has sent it to the Union ministry of road transport and highways for approval. The administration has prescribed average lifespan of different types of vehicles - public service vehicle, heavy goods vehicle, car, light commercial vehicle, three-wheeler, and motorcycle - and after lapse of the lifetime, owner of the vehicle must get the registration renewed after inspection.
  
  
 The registration of non-commercial vehicles is renewed without conducting fitness test, whereas inspection, that too, visual is done of commercial vehicles. Once the centre is set up, all types of vehicles will have to undergo fitness test after lapse of their prescribed lifespan for which they will have to pay a fee. A sticker will be issued to each vehicle complying with the standard requirements for safe driving and emission parameters. Old vehicles plying without a valid sticker will be challaned.
 
 At present, a large number of old ill-maintained vehicles ply on road, which contribute to deterioration of air quality.
 
 Over the years, the quality of air in the city has deteriorated beyond permissible levels. Data compiled by the   ( ) in last few years shows that the level of repairable suspended particulate matter (RSPM) has been recorded above the permissible limits, that is, 100 microgram per cubic metre (mcg/cu m). The city has the highest density of vehicles in the country. On an average, each family in the city owns more than two cars. Not only that, such vehicles are also a safety hazard. In Chandigarh, there has been a rise in the number of deaths in road accidents. Around 750 people died in road accidents in last five years. As many as 107 people were killed last year. In 2016, 151 people were killed, while 129 died in 2015.
 
 State   (STA) additional secretary Rajiv Tiwari said decision has been taken to improve the condition of in-use vehicle fleet. The centre will not only test their road worthiness but also help in reducing pollution from emissions. The ministry of road transport and highways will provide to meet the cost of equipment, construction of building and cost of operation for the first two years.
 
 According to the estimates, the centre will also help the administration in generating revenue in tune of around Rs 2 crore per annum.
 
 
