Vijayawada: At the Anti-Corruption Bureau ( ) office here, most people who approach with complaints are farmers and land owners in Krishna district. With this fact, one can broadly deduce which departments top the corruption list. 

 According to ACB officials, most trap cases they have filed in the past two years are against village revenue officers ( ) in the district. Corruption among VROs, however, is not just restricted to Krishna district, but is prevalent across Andhra Pradesh. Some 25 out of 137 cases filed by ACB in 2017 across the state were against VROs.
 
 The increasing number of trap cases, however, have not deterred VROs from demanding bribes for smallest of official works, such as issuing pattadar passbooks for a land. VROs usually are known to demand anything between Rs 5000 and Rs 10,000 for issuing the passbooks. While in individual cases the amount may not look huge, the cumulative effect is staggering. In 2010, the ACB made had stumbled across disproportionate assets worth 44 crore from a simple VRO in Kanur village.
 
 ACB sources said that some officials partner real estate businessmen, and exploit their position to make crores of rupees. ACB officials also said that in some cases, even higher officials such as MROs receive a share from the bribes collected by the their juniors. 
 
 An analysis of the ACB’s recent record reveals that a substantial number of revenue officials have been caught taking bribes. Most were also found to own assets disproportionate to their known income. 
 
 The worrying fact is that despite severe action from the ACB, the number of bribe cases involving VROs continues to rise. Senior officials, under the condition of anonymity, admit that corruption in the revenue department goes unabated. For instance, a VRO of Nennuru village in Ramachandra Puram mandal, Chittoor district, was convicted in a bribe case filed by the Nellore ACB in August 2015. However, only two years later, in November 2017, he was again caught taking bribe. 
 
 The slow conviction process in bribe cases is a major reason for the government officials to continue their corrupt practices. The time taken to achieve conviction in a disproportionate case stands is anywhere between 10 and 15 years.
 
 
