The imposing facade of the gurudwara sahib, Betim, a little way before the jetty on the Betim side, is a tough one to miss. Completed in 1987, the shrine is among the Sikh community’s most prominent sites of worship in Goa. The community’s ties to the coastal state, however, extend far beyond the structure.

 The earliest instance of Sikhs setting foot in the state go as far back as the 1960s when the Sikh regiment of the   arrived here to assist in the liberation of Goa from Portuguese rule. Karnail Singh, a soldier from the regiment, was martyred in course of battle and his contribution to the freedom struggle has been immortalised in the form of a statue in Pernem taluka. “Students from a local school clean and take care of the statue. We are in talks with the government to set up a proper memorial at the site for him,” president, gurudwara sahib, Betim, Harvinder Singh says.
 
 Post-Liberation, a handful of soldiers and officers from the regiment were posted in the state for security measures. The community soon set up its own prayer site in Vasco, which, later in 1967 was transformed into a gurudwara. “There hardly were three-four Sikh families in Vasco when the gurudwara came up on land provided by the Mormugao comunidade. Over time our numbers increased and, at present, there are approximately 400 Sikh families in Goa,” Vasco resident, whose father was among the pioneer members of the community in Goa, Tejinder Singh says.
 
 Around the same time, another small prayer site was set up atop a hill in Betim for family members of the servicemen and civilians who had started coming into the state. “In 1985, during Gopal Singh’s tenure as lieutenant governor (LG), the foundation stone of the current gurudwara was laid and the towering structure that came up was inaugurated two years later,” retired Army officer, who first came to Goa in 1965, Mansur Puri says.
 
 Soon after Liberation the community started making its presence felt by way of trade links and the ear liest of them were Sikhs from Mumbai who came to Goa to buy trucks and heavy automobiles from the state. The low taxation rates and short waiting periods for vehicles were factors that lured them. Bhai Jaimal Singh was the first among these enterprising individuals after whom many followed suit.
 
 As their numbers swelled and they put down roots in the state, the Sikhs also took the initiative to give back to the place they had started calling home. The Betim gurudwara runs a community kitchen that provides free food every day to people irrespective of caste, creed, gender and social standing. Over the weekends, the langar sees footfalls as high 450-500 individuals. “The gurudwara also has lodging facilities at nominal rates and all we ask for from guests is an identity proof,” said Harvinder. While anyone looking for a place to stay can turn up at the house of worship, it’s for the benefit for students coming from other state for exams, sportspersons travelling for tournaments, etc. “We are always there for people if they need us. There have been instances where people have come seeking help in emergencies. We try to help them as best as we can and provide them with food, shelter and money to get back home,” Harvinder said.
 
 Besides the community kitchen and lodging facilities, the gurudwara also houses a primary health centre. “We are also in talks with the government to start a facility at the Goa Medical College where we can provide healthy, hygienic food to patients’ kin and relatives waiting on the premises,” he added. Plans are also on the anvil to start a food distribution service and shelter for the homeless and the destitute.
 
 Sikhs have also contributed to the state’s administration with several senior bureaucrats and at least three lieutenant governors — Col (retd) Pratap Singh Gill,   and S S Sidhu – hailing from the community.
 
 The community’s efforts to contribute to the Goan society has been reciprocated with Mapusa-based teacher Suresh Amonkar translating the Sikh morning prayer — the Japuji sahib, which contains the essence of the more elaborate Guru   — into Konkani. The gurudwara’s management committee now plans to get the   version published for the perusal of locals, who wish to learn more about the religion.
 
 “The Sikhs in Goa have bonded with this land in more ways than one. But when you strip it down to the bones, our mutual love for the good things in life — fun, merriment, alcohol, food and music — probably makes our compatibility a striking one,” Harvinder says with a smile.
 
