Kolkata: The Calcutta High Court on Friday scrapped a notification issued by the North Dinajpur district inspector (DI) of schools closing down 11 schools run by RSS affiliates in the district.

 The DI in his April 10 notice had asked these schools to close forthwith and also imposed a fine of Rs 1 lakh on Sarad Seva Trust, which runs the schools. The notice was served on the grounds that the schools didn’t have the requisite infrastructure — fire extinguishers, library and playground. The notice also mentioned that the schools were not affiliated to West Bengal Primary Education Board.
 
 Justice Samapti Chatterjee struck down the notification in her judgment.
 
 The schools’ lawyer, Subir Sanyal, argued that the DI had exceeded his rights in issuing the notification. Sanyal said the Right to Education Act (RTE) made education a fundamental right of every child aged 6 to 14.
 
 Additional solicitor general Kaushik Chanda expressed a similar opinion.
 
 The state’s counsel, Amitesh Banerjee, however, argued that the notification was issued based on certain facts. He claimed the DI could shut schools if they flouted rules.
 
 After the notification was issued on April 10, the schools had moved the high court. In June 2017, Justice Arijit Banerjee had issued an interim stay on the notification. The HC’s detailed judgment came on Friday after it heard the matter at length.
 
 The government move came days after the Mamata Banerjee government had last March put on notice 125 schools run by three private trusts perceived to be close to RSS affiliates. All the schools are run mostly by three trusts — Sarada Shishu Tirtha, Saraswati Shishu Mandir and Vivekanada Vidya Vikas Parishad — which proclaim themselves to be affiliated to the Lucknow-headquartered Vidya Bharati Akhil Bharatiya Shiksha Sansthan. These organisations have a network of over 350 schools in Bengal, with a student strength of over 60,000.
 
 State education minister Partha Chatterjee had singled out 125 of these 350 schools citing a “list” handed over by the CM in her capacity as the state home minister.
 
 A senior RSS leader said: “They (the schools) have been running in Bengal since 1975 when the first Sarada Shishu Tirtha was set up in Siliguri...I think they are sniffing politics everywhere.”
 
 
