MADURAI: Various employees associations of the   have demanded that the railway mixed higher secondary school in Madurai, which celebrated its centenary fifteen years ago, should not be shut down at any cost. The Bibek Debroy committee on reforms had recommendation that   need not run hospitals and schools as a cost-cutting. 

 Coordinator of  , DREU, A Nowshath, said that though the order applied to over 122 railway schools across the country, Southern Railway had been showing a lot of enthusiasm to close these schools, including Madurai’s century-old one. It were ordinary railway employees who were mostly benefiting from these schools and railway hospitals, as children of officials no longer studied here. ``Closing them would burden the employees and affect their performance too,’’ he said.
 
 The railway school has now been directed not to enrol new students for the ensuing academic year. This had caused lot of concern among not just the parents of the students studying here but hundreds of teachers also who were serving here, he added. The school had been following the state board syllabus but later changed to CBSE syllabus as officers from various states worked here. 
 
 The railway school could be linked to   and upgraded but it should not be closed at any cost, said Nowshath. There were nine railway schools in the six divisions of Southern railway, including those in Arakonam, Perambur, Palakkad, Jolarpettai, Villupuram and   and all these schools need to be protected, he said.
 
 On Tuesday, Southern Railway Mazdoor Union staged a demonstration stressing various demands including the non-closure of the railway school in Madurai. They are on a 60-hour continuous strike against the central government’s various moves which they say are against the welfare of railway employees.
 
 The union demanded that the new pension scheme be cancelled and that maintenance of railways not be privatized, among other demands. Members V Ramkumar, P Seetharaman and Sabari Vasan among others participated.
 
 
