MUMBAI: In a stern warning to those who keep objecting to redevelopment projects in the city, the Bombay high court slammed one set of such “incessant objectors” and barred them from society membership till final possession of the new flats in  .

 This is the first such order where the court has directed that, though eligible for rehabilitation, a bunch of 30-odd former occupants from among nearly 250 in a row of chawls on a large tract of land in Wadala, cannot be made members of the cooperative housing society unless the project gets completed and everyone is handed possession of permanent new houses. 
 
 It suggested that a new rule be formulated to deprive such “incessant objectors” from all benefits, including rehabilitation eligibility. 
 
 “This (constant re-agitating) is actually something of a fashion or perhaps even a disease in development projects in this city, and it is spreading. It must be stopped in its tracks,” said Justice Gautam  . Across the city, 85% of all construction projects comprise a rehabilitation component, said housing experts. Currently, Maharashtra has over 13,000 projects under construction under RERA.
 
 The redevelopment has been in dispute since 2009 in court. Justice Gautam Patel found that a minority members who had dragged the builder for contempt of court had, in fact, refused to vacate their old tenements despite an irrevocable undertaking and an order passed by consent in March 2015. They had been taken to task earlier too for “unjustified and frivolous litigation” when they challenged a civic eviction notice. It was another bench of Justice S C Gupte in 2015 which ensured that they vacate the premises. It was a fortnight after their promised voluntary deadline.
 
 But last year, the former occupants again sued the builder, East and West Developers, part of RNA group, for alleged contempt by not paying them the promised interim monthly rent of Rs 40,000. They had arrears of almost Rs 2 crore due, since the builder stopped paying last May.
 
 Justice Patel said they “cannot possibly rely on their forcible eviction…to allege contempt or collusion against society, builder and  . It is not open to a few members to constantly re-agitate their case.”
 
 Suggesting a rule to deprive such “incessant objectors” from all benefits, including rehabilitation eligibility, the court said: “Pursuing frivolous litigation cannot be entirely risk and cost-free. It deducted half a month’s rent for their delay while also observing that builders too delay projects. It directed the builder to pay the remaining rent arrears, including yearly increases since May 2017, to all tenants, but deducted Rs 24,000 for the delay caused by them in handing over vacant possession of old tenements in May 2015.
 
 “Those commitments were to this court. Today they cannot possibly rely on their forcible eviction, and only after an unsuccessful attempt to delay possession—found to be frivolous—allege contempt against either the society or the builder, let alone allege collusion against the MCGM. It is not open to these petitioners to constantly re-agitate their case in this fashion,” said the court. Justice Patel added, “It is not open to these petitioners, or any others, to expect that their own defaults be whitewashed or be without consequence.”
 
 The court likened the actions of a few to a “brute force of a mob”. He said, “There is, underlying in every such development of a society, a fundamental democratic structure. Once a decision is taken by a society, it binds its members. Individual members are not entitled to hold either the society or other fellow members to ransom, or to stamp their personal preferences on the society and fellow members. That is not democratic.”
 
 “When some members of the society hold up development against a willing and cooperative developer, then the enemy is not outside the gates. The enemy is within,” said Justice Patel and suggested that a new rule must require incessant objectors “to immediately forfeit all benefits including rehabilitation eligibility”.
 
 “There must be a real risk to initiating and pursuing frivolous litigation. It cannot be entirely risk- and cost-free,” said the court while directing that membership be barred to those not already members.
 
 
