BHOPAL: The father of   —   accused, who died under mysterious circumstances in 2012 — is upset with   for closing the probe into her death as a suicide case, and wants it reopened.

 “No, I am not satisfied with CBI’s finding. I’ll keep my side during the next hearing,” Mehtab Singh, Namrata’s father, told TOIon Thursday.
 
 Namrata is one of the most mysterious names in the Vyapam probe. A student of MGM Medical College, Indore, the 25-year-old was charged with using unfair means to clear her entrance exam. Within days of her questioning, she was found dead near railway tracks at Kayta village in Ujjain on January 7, 2012, a week going missing from her hostel. Three years later, a TV reporter had a heart attack while interviewing her father and died, adding to the mystery.
 
 CBI started probing her death in 2015 and ruled it a suicide in January this year. Her father isn’t convinced. Neither are whistleblowers Ashish   and  . “CBI should come clear on where she was going the day she died and who she was likely to meet,” said Chaturvedi.
 
 Rai accuses CBI of shielding some powerful people
 
 Chaturvedi said, “Examination of her call details will give clues to take investigation to the next level. We are not satisfied with CBI’s findings in this case and will demand re-investigation,” said .
 
 “Whether it was suicide or murder, if there were indications of sexual assault CBI should have probed deeper,” said Rai, accusing the agency of shielding some powerful people.
 
 Three Ujjain-based forensic experts, who conducted the autopsy, said Namrata was strangled and there were semen stains on her clothes. However, director of MP Medico-Legal institute, Dr D S  , contradicted filed another report, saying she committed suicide. Based on Badkur’s report, police closed the file on December 14, 2014. CBI, which took up the probe following a S C order, has reached the same conclusion. No evidence was found to indicate murder, said CBI sources. Agency informed court she was seen crying by some passengers before she disappeared. CBI questioned a Kerala football team and a co-passenger, but found no proof of foul play. 
 
