PUNE: The Union government’s sentinel surveillance centre for early detection and speedy control of   and chikungunya at the state-run district hospital in Aundh is yet to become operational, despite being approved two years ago. 

 
  
 
 In the absence of a functional centre, the hospital authorities have no option but to get the tests done at private laboratories.
 
 Experts feel it is imperative that the centre starts working without delay, in view of the huge burden of dengue and chikungunya in Pune,   Chinchwad and the rural parts. The centre will help prevent the mosquito-borne diseases from going out of control.
 
 “We have been following up with our superiors to get the centre functional. We have yet to get the requisite machinery and kits. Currently, we get the samples of suspected dengue and chikungunya patients tested at a private laboratory in Pimpri. The state government bears the cost,” said the hospital’s civil surgeon R K Shelke.
 
 Once a hospital is designated as a sentinel surveillance centre, it gets high-end diagnostic machinery, reliable test kits as well as expert manpower from the Union government under National Vector-Borne Disease Control Programme (NVBDCP). It is crucial in understanding the true disease burden and initiating subsequent control measures well in advance.
 
 “Each centre has an Elisa-based reader, free Elisa-based test kits developed by the   (NIV) and an annual grant of Rs1 lakh to strengthen its facilities. Besides, if there is a shortage of manpower, the centre also gets help in filling vacancies,” said a senior official of the state health department.
 
 “Most importantly,” he elaborated, “faster generation of test reports of suspected patients will help us understand the disease burden well in advance and initiate quick measures to mitigate the situation. Besides, people can avail themselves of a reliable diagnostic facility for dengue and chikungunya for free.”
 
 When contacted, M S Diggikar, joint director (vector-borne diseases), state health department said, “We have run into some technical issues due to which the centre could not be made operational. The purchase of machinery for the centres is underway. The surveillance centre will soon become operational.” 
 
 Since the beginning of 2018, Pune city has recorded 169 dengue cases. Of those, private hospitals have tested 144, while the sentinel centres at Naidu Hospital and Kamla Nehru Hospital have tested 25. The city also has recorded 12 cases of chikungunya during this period.
 
 
