Tired of trudging up to your gym and just doing a mortar-mud run around your residential block? Jump into the pool, instead. Aqua-based jogging is the new grab in the city. And judging by its popularity it’s not just about some wet fun. Held for an hour after or before office, it has   taking the land-based regimen into the water; it is similar to jogging on terra firma in terms of the action and muscles used. Hailed as a rehabilitation  , this is also a popular workout across the globe owing to its low-impact benefits. Back home, here’s why office-goers are 
taking out time for it...
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 Experts say water jogging has more benefits than its land-based counterpart.  , aqua specialist, affirms, “Water is 800 times denser than air and offers 13 times more resistance, so you have to work that much harder in water and you burn more   in one hour (1000-1200). The pressure of the water also makes it easier for the heart to pump blood to the working muscles, which results bringing the basic heart rate down. Since you are running against 13 times more resistance, it’s a more strenuous activity and uses even the tiniest 
 muscles.”
 You need not fret if you can’t swim.   simply needs you to wear a flotation belt or other device around the waist (for beginners or those who have pool fear, a leash tied around the belt is hooked to the pool bar) and you have to start using your arms and legs in a running motion. Sounds easy? There’s a catch. Your feet should not touch the pool’s floor. Informs Deepali, “You are suspended in the deep, so the impact on the joints is zero. You must constantly pedal to move ahead or you will be stuck in one place. This is especially perfect for   with a sedentary job, who sit for hours in one place. It’s not easy initially, but this is not about a race. So, the slower the progress, the better your form and how it has impacted you,” she adds. 
 Adds sports surgeon Dr  , “The major advantage of hydrotherapy is that it is low-impact and does not adversely affect the knee while exercising. It also makes rehab enjoyable.”
 
 
 You’ll find a swimming pool in South Mumbai’s Sachivalaya area, filled with an eager class of water joggers early on any given weekday. Mahim-based finance executive Nozer Damania has been doing water workouts for a while, now. “I was a non-swimmer, suffering from a bad back. Owing to a  , I could not even walk in the water. And since I have a corporate background, my job was sedentary and did not help my case much. But ever since I tried water jogging, it seems to have healed my back completely. I can now walk without pain. it’s almost like I did not have a back issue at all,” he says. 
 Student Abhaya Dharmadhikari from South Mumbai signed up for the class five months ago. Apart from weight loss, it has helped remove her fear of the water. “I used to be petrified of getting into the pool, I am an absolute aquaphobe. But the water jogging action in this workout helped me conquer my phobia. So, I would advise those with psychological fear of water to consider this. It also helped me drop three kilos in a short time,” she says, adding, “We just have to maintain the right posture while jogging.” 
 Colaba-based general physician Dr Rashna Limaye takes time out of her schedule to try this regimen twice a week. She says, “I do this as part of physiotherapy. I have a bad knee and water jogging allows me to exercise my knee without any impact. It has also made me more flexible. I’ve found more strength returning to my muscles and there’s also been an increase in my stamina. When I first started a pool workout, I couldn’t walk even 
 walk for some distance. It was difficult even with a water noodle, but now I can jog for 10 minutes without a break in the water.”
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The ‘delayed onset of muscle soreness’ (DOME), usually associated with land-based exercises, does not happen here as the water massages the body while you jog in it.
  
 
 
 
