Titwala: More than five months after an engineer was found hanging at his   home, his family has claimed to have received a letter “threatening them to withdraw their complaint lodged against the police.

 The family of the deceased, Mitesh  , had moved Bombay high court last month against policemen. Subsequently, a criminal offence had been filed against two policemen and the case handed over to the crime branch for a probe.
 
 Last August, Jagtap was found hanging from a fan in his house. His family alleged that he had been beaten up by the police who had summoned for him the previous day in a bike theft case.
 
 On Saturday evening when Mitesh’s mother Pushpa got home, she found the three letters lying in the house. While one was from the Thane rural police, the other was from the state government. These two letters stated that the probe into their complaint was on.
 
 “It was the third letter, which is unsigned, that came as a surprise. It states that we should withdraw the case against the policemen and also a complaint we have filed in Bombay high court or face the consequences,” said Pushpa.
 
 The letter also asks the family to “accept money offered by the police and also suggests that they should ask for more money if they want it, but insists that the family take back its complaint”, said Pushpa, adding that the timing of the letter is also shocking.
 
 “We fear that the policemen will attack our family members,” said Pushpa.
 
 Following receipt of this letter, the family approached officials of Titwala police station who have only registered a non-cognizable offence.
 
 The Bombay high court had last month slammed the Thane rural police and had asked them to file the case against the policemen and submit a report within four weeks after which the criminal offence was registered against two cops.
 
 The Jagtap family said it is not happy with the case given to the in-charge of Thane crime branch,  , who was earlier the senior inspector at Titwala police station. “He has good relations with the cops involved in harasing Mitesh,” said a family member.
 
 
