KOCHI: With reports of rise in number of school students getting attracted to drugs, the excise department have strengthened vigil around schools during the reopening month. The department has come up with a comprehensive programme to curb   abuse among students. 

 
 Officials said that at least two officers would be deployed in ‘mufti’ around city schools during the first month of the academic year to prevent peddlers from introducing any drugs to students.
 
 “We have nearly 300 anti-drug clubs at schools in the district. We are planning to rejuvenate these clubs. We are also conducting awareness classes for parents,” said K A Nelson, deputy excise commissioner,  .
 
 Officials said that more cases were getting reported from private schools recently. 
 
 “The practice is mostly visible among students who are given a good sum as pocket money. Many children are being sent to schools with a pocket money of Rs 100 and above,” said an official with the excise department. He added that minors were rarely booked for an offence. “Cases against minors are usually avoided as it would affect their future. The practice is to alert parents and provide counselling assistance,” said an officer on condition of anonymity.
 
 The officers added that they had good results in the past when they let off students with a warning and proper counselling. 
 
 “Recently, a student was caught with ganja when he was in the city to collect more of the contraband before heading for a school tour. The boy’s parents were alerted and he was let off with a warning. He now seems to be doing well,” said the officer.
 
 According to officials, children start experimenting with substances like cough syrup and whitener ink. 
 
 “For better euphoria, children opt for prescription drugs like nitrazepam, which are available at cheap rates. Further, they are offered substances like ganja by peddlers, which would cost them more money,” said T S Sasikumar, CI (excise), Ernakulam.
 
 “Many school authorities refrain from reporting drug-related cases as it might affect their reputation. Students from Class IX to Plus Two are vulnerable,” said an officer.
 
 
