NAGPUR:   got off to a rocking start in the Asian Youth   Championship by winning her first gold medal in the fastest format of 64 squares in Thailand on Sunday. The 14-year-old emerged victorious in the day-long rapid event of girls U-14 category.

 
 Three city masters including Mrudul, Divya Deshmukh and Sankalp Gupta are representing India in the six age-category Asian meet being played in all the three - rapid, classical and blitz - formats. The meet is organized by the Thailand Chess Association.
 
 While the 23rd seed Mrudul made her presence felt in the rapid event, both Divya and Sankalp finished fourth to miss the podium by a whisker.
 
 The Women Candidate Master (WCM) finished the seven-round rapid event collecting six points and a better progressive score gave Mrudul her first Asian rapid gold. At six points apiece, she had a tie with fourth seed Nurgali Nazerke of Kazakhstan. On her way to glory, Mrudul posted six victories and lost a round.
 
 In a chat with TOI from Thailand, an elated Mrudul said: “I am happy to win my first rapid gold in Asian meet. I finished second in 2014 and was eager to win rapid gold here.”
 
 Mrudul played with the black pieces in the opening round and surprised third seeded WFM Kamalidenova Meruert of Kazakhstan to make her intentions clear. She utilized her opening advantage well in the following round to take Vietnam’s WFM   in stride. The third round contest was a battle of two friends where Mrudul defeated Divya Deshmukh.
 
 A miss-calculation in the mid-game of fourth round, however, halted Mrudul’s winning run as she suffered her first defeat against   of Vietnam. Despite the setback, Mrudul continued her attacking play and fought back with a shocking win over ninth seeded Sultanbek Zeinep of Kazakhstan before toppling the applecart of seed No 5 Wang Xuwen from China in the penultimate round.
 
 Playing an exciting seventh and final round with the black pieces, Mrudul belted tremendous pressure over Rakshitta Ravi to surprise her experienced compatriot and garner full point.
 
 Explaining her winning moment, she said, “After losing the fourth round I never felt I would be able to win this gold. Thereafter, I decided to play attacking in all the remaining rounds and it helped me to win all the remaining rounds. Victory in the final round over Rakshitta was crucial, specially after the draw on the top board which gave me an opportunity to win the championship. We both were under severe time pressure. I slowly made inroads into her defence and played aggressively to get the winning position and finally defeated her.”
 
 There was, however, no time for Mrudul to celebrate as all the three city masters started preparing for the standard format which begins from Monday. While Mrudul will start as a fifth seed, Divya is given the second billing in the U-14 section as Sankalp is seeded second in the U-16 meet.
 
 
 
 
 RD-1: bt 3-WFM Kamalidenova Meruert (KAZ);
 RD-2 bt 15-WFM Vuong Quynh Anh (VIE);
 RD-3 bt 16-WFM Divya Deshmukh (IND);
 RD-4 Lost To 14-Nguyen Thien Ngan (VIE);
 RD-5: bt 9-WCM Sultanbek Zeinep (KAZ);
 RD-6: bt 5-Wang Xuwen (CHN);
 RD-7: bt 21-Rakshitta Ravi (IND).
 
