AGARTALA: BJP, considered minnows in   until a few weeks ago, took the   as well as the nation by surprise by demolishing one of the two last   with an absolute majority. Most importantly, this was the first direct fight between BJP and the Left anywhere in the country. 

 
  
 
 The saffron party, which did not have a representative even at the councillor level, won 35 of the 50 seats it contested for the 60-member assembly. Its ally, Indigenous People's Front of Tripura (IPFT), won eight of the nine seats it contested. Election to one constituency was countermanded because of the death of the CPM candidate. 
 
 Prime Minister  , who was unsparing while criticising outgoing chief minister Manik Sarkar and the Left Front during campaigning, tweeted, "While we are naturally delighted about the historic victory in Tripura, we will always have in our thoughts and prayers the BJP Karyakartas who lost their lives due to mindless Communist violence. It is due to their courage that the party has reached where it has today." 
 
 Modi added, "BJP is fully committed to the overall transformation of the Northeast. This region is blessed with immense potential to become a powerhouse of development. The Central Government has already undertaken numerous efforts for better growth and opportunities in the Northeast."
 
 For the Left Front, the election turned out to be disastrous, both provincially and nationally. It managed to win only 16 seats in a state that it had ruled for 25 long years, virtually without any opposition. Its traditional rival, Congress, could not win a single seat, turning the Grand Old Party irrelevant in most of the northeast.
 
 The Left Front's defeat could mean a huge setback to its units in Kerala, where it is in power, and Bengal, which it ruled for 34 long years till 2011. It also put Left ideology in danger of becoming obscure in the country. Compared to Assam and Manipur, which BJP won in the last two years, Tripura offered a better show. Its vote share soared from 1.5% in 2013 to 43% this time. Not only this, it itself has now a majority of its own. On the other hand, the Left Front's vote share fell to 42.7% from 53.8% in 2013.
 
 BJP in-charge of northeast Ram Madhav described the sterling victory as "revolutionary". He remarked, "This is not just a mandate for us. This is the desire of 37 lakh people for freedom. We will create a new Tripura where there will be no place for violence and hatred."
 
 IPFT supremo NC Debbarma added, "People have given the BJP-IPFT alliance their mandate and we have to abide by it responsibly."
 
 Sarkar didn't interact much with the media. He simply accepted defeat and said, "People have voted us out of power after 25 years. We thank all those who voted for us." The CPM politburo was scathing in its response. It accused BJP of using money power to win the polls.
 
 Sarkar, regarded as one of India's 'cleanest' politicians because of his Spartan lifestyle, is leading from Dhanpur, his home constituency, by 5,000 votes. CPM protested against the  's decision to stop counting there and wants the winner to be declared.
 
 BJP focussed on Sarkar's failure to implement the Seventh Pay Commission recommendations, growing unemployment, political violence, underdevelopment and corruption to corner the Left Front. Besides, it also took up issues related to tribals, who constitute about one-third of the electorate, sympathetically and offered more autonomy to them.
 
 
