Kolkata: Cracking down on bank defaulters, CBI on Friday started a case against a Burdwan-based company for allegedly defrauding a nationalized bank of more than Rs 4 crore. 

 Last month, CBI had registered a separate case against the same set of directors in connection with a fraud of Rs 28.35 crore.
 
 Source said CBI searched 12 places across West Bengal, Sikkim and Bihar on Friday on the premises of the company directors and officials of the bank. “We have started the case based on a complaint by a nationalized bank. The searches on Friday have led to recovery of incriminating documents,” said a CBI spokesperson . 
 
 CBI’s FIR alleged that the directors had entered into a conspiracy with the empanelled lawyer, the chief manager and deputy manager-level officials. In 2009 and 2014, they availed a cash credit limit of Rs 4.45 crore for a rice mill. After a few months, the company stopped paying interest and the principal amount. The loan turned into an NPA and increased to Rs 4.12 crore.
 
 During searches, CBI stumbled upon a similar mode of operation used by the directors while taking loans in the names of another company they had floated. The directors, all residents of Burdwan, had taken a loan of Rs 29.23 crore from the bank to set up a food processing unit. The company eventually acquired a rice mill and funds were diverted. Some time after the acquisition, the company started reporting shortage of working capital. The directors applied for restructuri-ng the loan limi-ts but that didn’t help. As the company started defaulting on payments, the bank reported the case to CBI.
 
 While probing the case, CBI officials found that a director of the company had gifted the food processing unit to his son while the property was mortgaged to the bank. His son re-mortgaged the same property to a second company and took loans. Eventually he applied for a loan of Rs 4.12 core for the second company. 
 
 The loan was given to him while ignoring the past records and the new loan turned into an NPA in a similar way. 
 
 
