NAGPUR: The   has sought details from all states on action taken against claimants whose claims have been rejected under the Forest Rights Act 2006.

 Of the four petitions clubbed together challenging  , the latest order was passed on March 7, on a petition filed by Nature Conservation Society, Amravati , Tiger Research & Conservation Trust, Nagpur, and Wildlife First, Bengaluru.
 
 Justice MB Lokur & Justice   upon hearing the case said that the writ petition will be taken as a lead case for a final hearing.
 
 On January 29, 2016 the court had sought certain details from the states. While most state governments filed affidavits some did not comply. But as the information supplied pursuant to 2016 order is about two years old, the SC issued fresh direction to all the states to file a tabular statement seeking exhaustive details now.
 
 The SC has sought number of claims for the grant of land under FRA. The claims should be divided into claims made by the scheduled tribes (STs) and separately by other traditional forest dwellers (OTFDs) and number of claims rejected by states in each category.
 
 It has also sought the extent of tract of land over which such claims were made and rejected in respect of each of the two categories. The states have been asked to submit action taken against those claimants whose claims have been rejected. They will also have to supply information on status of eviction of those claimants whose claims have been rejected and the total extent of area from which they have been evicted.
 
 The extent of the area in respect of which eviction has not yet taken place in respect of rejected claims. The cut-off date for providing this information is December 31, 2017. The information, as required above, has to be furnished in four weeks.
 
 The matter has been listed on April 18, 2018. The NGOs have challenged the constitutional validity of the FRA as well as legislative competence of Parliament to enact the Act. They have submitted that discriminatory grant of pattas is objectionable and steps must be taken to evict those persons whose claims have been rejected those persons being encroachers.
 
 The petitioners have also requested for a performance audit being conducted by the Comptroller & Auditor General of India or by any other appropriate authority. Their concern is to preserve the forest and wildlife of the country which according to them is in a critical state.
 
 The states have been doing nothing to evict encroachers. For example in Maharashtra, information received under   by   states that since FRA implementation from 2010-11, over 2.80 lakh individual titles have been rejected in 26 districts by the topmost district level committee headed by collector but encroachers have not been evicted.
 
 
