Coimbatore: In a significant ruling, the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT) has said that time barred debt or stale debt— those for which no action has been taken for three years from due date—cannot be a reason for not allowing initiation of corporate insolvency resolution process under IBC (Insolvency and Bankruptcy Code).  A debt is deemed time barred if the lender or the supplier of goods and services does not recover the money or does not take legal action within three years from the due date. For instance, if an amount is due in April 2015, recovery action should be taken in an appropriate forum/court by April 2018. NCLAT held that merely on the basis of the averment that the debt covered by the claim of the operational creditor is time barred, an application of the operational creditor under Section 9 of IBC cannot be rejected. The tribunal should see if there are valid reasons for the delay, it said. “The stale claim of dues, without explaining delay, normally should not be entertained for triggering ‘Corporate Insolvency Resolution Process’ under Section 7 and 9 of the ‘I&B Code’,” NCLAT ruled in an appeal filed by Machhar Polymer. Machhaar moved the NCLAT against the order of NCLT’s Mumbai bench that rejected its insolvency application on the ground that there cannot be any remedy available to a party over a time barred debt. The company filed a petition under Section 9 of IBC against Sabre Helmets after the latter failed to pay Rs 3,57,160 due in July 2014 and again an amount to the tune of Rs 2,49,184 due in September 2014 towards the supply of polymer. Since neither the payment was made nor the corporate debtor (Sabre) replied to a notice issued under Section 8 of IBC in June 2017, Machhar filed a petition for initiation of ‘Insolvency Resolution Process’ under the IBC. While deciding the appeal, NCLAT referred to its own previous decision in Speculum Plast case to reiterate the point that the ‘Doctrine of Limitation and Prescription’ is required to be looked into for determining the question of whether an application under Section 7 or Section 9 can be entertained after a long delay. “NCLAT’s decision in Machhar case is instructive and while remanding the matter to NCLT it simply says ‘consider the application and reject the same only if there are defects’, leaving no other room,” said K S Ravichandran of KSR&Co, Company Secretaries. “It may be noted that in another (Neelkanth) case, the question went to Supreme Court and the SC had stated that the question of applicability of limitation to cases under IBC will be decided separately,” he said. Machhar said that the contention that the claim of the operational creditor is stale cannot be entertained without affording an opportunity to explain the delay and see if the applications has been filed after a long delay.