For centuries, the many villages nestled in the Western Ghat areas of Goa, as also the border villages of Maharashtra and Karnataka, have kept alive a folk theatre form known as  . As with many other such traditional drama forms, the art is associated with auspicious occasions.

 Ranmale is associated with the celebration of Shigmo, the Goan rural spring festival, and  , the Hindu new year celebrated on the first day of the lunar calendar month of Chaitra.
 
 Come the propitious night of the new year and the villagers of   and   in Sattari nourish this rich tradition, which, through songs, dances and dialogues, recounts the deeds and adventures of the protagonists of the ancient Indian epic — Ramayana.
 
 In this folk drama, both male and female roles are performed by male artistes since women are not allowed to take part in such ritualistic performances.
 
 Before the enactment of the heroic actions of Lord Rama, his wife Sita, brother  , devotee Hanuman and demon-king Ravana commence, Lord Ganesha and goddess Saraswati are invoked. Actors sporting wooden masks representing the god and goddess come on stage and strike a pose.
 
 Ranmale is performed to the tunes of folk musical instruments, ghumat and kasale.
 
 In the backdrop, folklorists narrate stories from the Ramayana through song and lyrics while actors present scenes using wooden masks, wherever required.
 
 Though the central theme of the Ranmale revolves around the Ramayana, the tradition is deeply rooted in local identity and native culture and reflects the sociopolitical realities of its time.
 
 There are also various scenes performed by the folk artistes in this drama which tell about the pastoral Dhangars who resided in tune with nature.
 
 Often audiences will now find that along with the cultural and religious ethos, the drama form, through the use of satire, wit and parody, puts up social and political realities. Usually, incidents from daily life and villagers’ concerns are shown, making Ranmale relevant in the present time.
 
 There are many villages that continue the Ranmale as a symbolic observance to appease the local deities given that ritualistic tradition mandates its performance for Shigmo and Gudi Padwa.
 
 In the village of Gawali in the Khanapur taluka of Belagavi district of Karnataka, the art serves a dual purpose — appeasing the gods and entertaining the villagers, who, cutoff as they are from urban settlement, have no modern means of entertainment.
 
 Villagers are kept engrossed from midnight till the early hours of the morning with the unique combination of song, music, dance and extempore dialogue.
 
 Ishwar Gaonkar, 70, from Gawali says, “For the last so many centuries our villagers have been performing the Ranmale, as it is closely associated with our folk deities. We do not stage the Ranmale to earn money and fame, but more as an inherited tradition and to get the blessing of the presiding deity.”
 
 Together, Ranmale is a reflection of the behavioural patterns of the people living in the lap of the Western Ghats.
 
