MADURAI: India as a country made tremendous growth in science especially in mathematics when compared to 1960s, renowned mathematician, Dr Gyula O H Katona, member of Hungarian Academy of Science and   Institute of Mathematics, Hungary said, as he delivered keynote address at international conference on Algebra and Discrete Mathematics (ICADM – 2018) at   (MKU) on Monday.

 Katona, 77, the Hungarian mathematician of international repute, is known for his work in combinatorial set theory and winner of Alfred Renyi prize. He recalled his association with India when he met R C Bose, an Indian American Mathematician, as young mathematician in 1965 at Budapest. He had come to India many times in the past and it was his 17th visit to the country, he said.
 
 Compared to 1960s when there were handful of mathematicians in the country, India has grown and it could be said that at least 10,000 mathematicians of international reputation are from the country at present, he said. He attributed the reason to tremendous support of government towards the growth of science and technology. In those days, group theory was considered game of minds, and there were not many research into it but the subject has grown so much, he recalled.
 
 Professor, Department of Mathematics, Manomaniam Sundaranar University, Tirunelveli spoke about the conference and said that algebra and discreet mathematics are like tool and research to each other.
 
 The three-day conference from January 8 to 10 is organised by department of mathematics, directorate of distance education of MKU. Dr M  , head and chairperson of   welcomed the gathering.
 
 Vice-chancellor of MKU P P   inaugurated the conference. In his address, he said that the university gives more focus on research and development. As the result, the faculty of the university submitted proposals for research projects worth Rs 115 crore in last six months.
 
 Mathematics is the queen of all sciences and a science dealing with study of quantity, space, structure and change. He elaborated on the contribution of India towards mathematics like the zero by Aryabhata. He announced that the science park coming up in front of School of Mathematics will be named after Indian mathematician Srinivasa Ramanujam.
 
 Two memorandums of understanding (MoU) were signed on this occasion. One between MKU and department of mathematics Shahid Rajaee Teacher Training University , Tehran , Iran, and the other with MKU and Sharief University of Technology, Tehran. 
 
 
