CHENNAI: The  , who were to appear before the   (SHRC) on Wednesday for an enquiry regarding their use of excessive force on a woman and her son in   earlier in April, failed to turn up before the commission.

 SHRC member   has sought a response from the police commissioner’s office whether the summons issued to the personnel concerned —   and   on April 4 — were passed on to them. The hearing has been adjourned for Thursday. “No written affidavit was filed from the police personnel’s side either,” a SHRC staffer said.
 
 The issue pertains to yet another public relations disaster for the police department wherein a video clip went viral on social media in which traffic policemen were seen manhandling a woman and her son.
 
 The SHRC took suo moto cognisance of media reports on the incident and summoned the two policemen attached with the Mambalam traffic police to appear before the commission on April 18.
 
 The police had intercepted the bike in front of a textile showroom in T Nagar. The rider, Prakash, 21, of Vadapalani was not wearing a helmet and was carrying three people on the two-wheeler — his mother Sangeetha, 48, and younger sister. According to media reports, trouble began when Prakash began filming the police on his mobile when asked to pay the fine amount of Rs 100. An argument ensued and soon escalated into a brawl when Prakash allegedly held the subinspector’s rank badge on the uniform. The woman suffered injuries when she tried to hold her son from being whisked away by the police after which she was also manhandled by the cops.
 
 Police action was condemned widely on social media and by political leaders like DMK Rajya Sabha MP Kanimozhi who termed the act barbaric.
 
 While Prakash was remanded in judicial custody after being booked for causing hurt and deterring a public servant from discharging duty, a departmental inquiry has been ordered into the incident against the three police personnel involved. Prakash subsequently was granted bail by a city court.
 
 SHRC member D Jayachandran also directed the victims to draft a separate petition including other police personnel who were involved in the incident and were not summoned.
 
 
