CHANDIGARH:   became the epicentre of violence in   during the nationwide Dalit protests against the alleged dilution of the SC/ST Act. Although no deaths were reported, as many as 80 people were injured in clashes with cops and at least half of them were police officials. District officials said the number of injured may go up by tomorrow as they get more details.

 The protesters targeted mainly trains and traffic on the roads and highways and pelted stones at the police. For a start, Kaithal police have registered cases against about 3,000 unidentified. Police officials saif they have started collecting videos, CCTV footage and photographs from various sources on the basis of which rioters will be identified and booked.
 
 Police officials also added that they fired in the air to disperse mobs. A number of protesters were rushed to hospitals with bullet injuries in their legs. Groups of people had started assembling at various places in Kaithal during the day. Local administration was caught unawares as the mob kept growing and moved towards the new bus stand from the mini secretariat.
 
 As cops tried to disperse the mob, the men started pelting stones and damaged public and private vehicles which included two anti-riot vehicles and 40 two-wheelers and cars. “We exercised maximum restraint while using force. The number of cops suffering injuries in stone-pelting was more than that of civilians. Overall, the situation is under control now,’’ said Haryana DGP B S Sandhu.
 
 In Hisar, Dalit protesters came out on roads and broke the windshield of a private bus near   roundabout as cops prevented them to march towards   where CM   was chairing an event organised for watchmen from across Haryana.
 
 In   nearly 12 persons were taken into custody as the agitators damaged two busses and two police vehicles. Police resorted to lathicharge to disperse the mob. Other places where cops resorted to Lathicharge include   and  . In Faridabad agitators started pelting stones on Jan Shatabadi Express and broke window panes of 20 coaches.
 
 In Karnal, agitators entered a shopping mall and thrashed residents who opposed them when they were asking the shopkeepers to shut shop.
 
