LUCKNOW: The city witnessed the hottest day in the month of May in the past 10 years as heat wave conditions intensified across the state on Saturday. The state Met department observatory in   recorded maximum temperature of 44.8 degree Celsius, five degrees above normal, while weather apps on mobile phones flashed 48 degree Celsius between 4-4.30pm. 

 Heat wave is declared when maximum temperature is five degrees Celsius or more above normal.
 
 
  
 
 The temperature within the city is always more because concrete structures and pollution trap heat. The weather monitoring cell at  's geology department recorded the maximum temperature of the day at 47.29 degree Celsius at 3pm. 
 
 The city will continue reeling under sweltering heat on Sunday as well with the weatherman predicting no change in mercury mayhem.
 
 LU cell in charge, Prof  , said, "Several factors are contributing to the heat wave. Hot northwesterly winds coming from   are relentlessly lashing the state. Moisture levels in the atmosphere have gone down. Sky is clear, hence there is no protection from sharp sun rays. Further, since days are longer during this part of the year, the heating of the earth takes place for a long period during 24 hours in a day in comparison to night."
 
 There was no relief at night as well. The LU cell data showed night temperatures between 32-33 degree Celsius. The minimum was 31.58 degree Celsius at 6am. Thereafter mercury started rising and crossed 40 degree Celsius by 10am.
 
 The average temperature on Saturday was 39.34 degrees Celsius, which means high discomfort levels throughout the day because human body is comfortable when temperatures are between 15-25 degree Celsius
 
 State Met director   said no significant relief is expected on Sunday. Sky would be mainly clear with maximum and minimum temperatures around 43 and 24 degree Celsius, respectively. He said that there was a possibility of thunderstorm by Tuesday-Wednesday next week, which would make temperatures drop by a couple of degrees but will turn weather sultry, adding discomfort. 
 
 
