KOCHI: Police are now investigating the background details of a live-in couple at   after the woman was reportedly murdered by her lover after he walked in on her with another man. The woman was found naked, lying in a pool of blood while her live-in partner was found hanging from the ceiling fan next to the body. Police are yet to confirm the exact motive behind the murder or if a third person was involved in the crime. 

 The deceased were identified as Meera, daughter of Sasi from Kottayam and her live-in partner Noufal son of Kabir from Palakkad by Elamakkara police. 
 
 While she was a divorcee, Noufal had a wife and two children. They came to Ponekkara a month ago and took a house on rent as a couple. The inquest and autopsy were done on Saturday morning. Kalamasserry CI S Jayakrishnan has now taken over the investigation. 
 
 "The woman had stab wounds on her neck, shoulders and abdomen. Noufal's body had no injury," said an officer with Elamakkara police. "There was a kitchen knife next to her body," said CI Siby Tom (South).
 
 Palakkad Nattukal SHO   M said that Noufal's mother had called up their police station to inform them that her son had called her before his death. "He told her that he had killed his live-in partner after walking in on her with another man in the house. He added that he was about to commit suicide," he said, adding that Noufal had extremist connections.
 
 "We had arrested him about a month ago after his wife complained of domestic violence. We let him off then," said the officer. Palakkad police informed that Noufal had told his kin that he was a real estate broker in Ernakulam.
 
 "Meera and Noufal were going steady for three years and he might have been moving from place to place. Questions were raised over the morality of Meera. Noufal's kin alleged that he fell into her 'trap'. We couldn't verify their allegation," said Rajagopalan.
 
 Meanwhile, local counsellor   said that she was warned about the deteriorating relationship between the live-in partners two weeks ago by their ex-servant. "I've only seen that woman once or twice. A week ago, she told me that things were going downhill as the woman was not doing the right thing as she was cheating while being in a live-in relationship. That day there was a scuffle at their home. The servant left her job then. I don't remember her name or where she is now," she said, adding that the residents' association was planning to resolve the issues between Noufal and Meera.
 
 
