LUCKNOW: As the   gears up to take on a united Opposition in the high-stake Kairana and Noorpur bypolls, past   results show that except for 2014 Lok Sabha elections (in case of Kairana), the party had a lesser vote share than all Opposition parties taken together on the two seats. Riding on the Modi wave, party’s late Kairana MP, Hukum Singh, had polled over 50% of the votes in his constituency in 2014 Lok Sabha elections. This was nearly 3% more than the Opposition candidates taken together (see chart).
 
 
  
 
 But 2014 was an exception. In 2009 Lok Sabha elections, BJP’s vote share in Kairana was 36% against 61% of all Opposition parties taken together. In fact, then BJP candidate Hukum Singh, a five-time MLA from Kairana, lost to BSP’s Tabassum Begam by over 23,000 votes.
 
 Begam, 50, has been fielded by Rashtriya Lok Dal in Kairana byelections. SP,too, has extended support to her. BJP has fielded Hukum Singh’s daughter Mriganka to cash in on the sympathy factor. Though BSP is not contesting the byelections, its cadre will campaign for Begam. Congress, too, has decided not to field candidates in bypolls. The situation was worse for the BJP in 2004 Lok Sabha elections when its candidate Amarkant Rana had his deposits forfeited.
 
 Rana had got just over 6% votes and lost to RLD’s Anuraddha Chaudhary who got 74% of the total votes polled. BSP’s Shahnawaz Rana, too, got only 16% votes and had his deposits forfeited.
 
 In Noorpur too, the BJP, despite winning the seat twice consecutively, faces an uphill task against a united Opposition. In 2017 UP elections, BJP’s Lokendra Singh defeated SP’s Naimul Hasan by 12,000 votes. Singh’s victory was largely attributed to division of Muslim votes as BSP had fielded Gohar Iqbal. Singh died in a road crash in February this year. The SP has again fielded Naimul Hasan and he is being backed by the RLD. Banking on the sympathy factor, BJP has given ticket to Lokendra Singh’s widow Avani Singh.
 
 BJP’s winning margin was even lesser in 2012 UP elections when Singh polled around 27% votes, while BSP’s Mohammad Usman received around 24% votes. Then too, the Muslim votes got divided as SP had fielded Qutubuddin. RLD’s Yashpal Singh received only 6% votes and lost his deposits.
 
 Given the high stakes, the BJP has pushed its organisational machinery at the booth level in the two seats. BJP state general secretary and west UP in charge Vijay Bahadur Pathak told TOI that the party has set a target of getting at least 50% votes in each seat. “We have already started a mass contact programme,” he said.
 
