BENGALURU: A   attached to the   police station in west Bengaluru is in the dock after a suspected burglar, who was caught red-handed with his tools recently, confessed that he was working in   with the cop.

 Police said they are verifying the relationship of a constable working in the   with Armugam alias Mani, 31, a resident of Kamakshamma Layout in  
 
 Armugam was caught by night patrol constables Hasim Sab Mandal and Sachin Pagad while moving suspiciously on his scooter near Ayyappa Swamy Temple, Vijaya Bank Layout, south Benglauru, on March 26 night. Mico Layout police found two iron rods, a screw driver, one torch and handgloves in his bag. He also had Rs 10,000 in his pocket.
 
 According to police, Armugam made a call from his mobile phone and asked Mandal and Pagad to speak to the person on the other side. The person, who identified himself as a policeman from Annapoorneshwari Nagar police station, asked them to let go of Armugam, claiming he was innocent. However, Mandal and Pagad suspected something amiss and alerted their higher-ups. 
 
 After intense grilling, Armugam told police that the cash found on him was stolen from a house at Channammana Kere Achukattu area in south Bengaluru.
 
 The accused claimed that he had been arrested earlier by Annapoorneshwari Nagar police in connection with a house break-in and later he became close to the constable. The accused said he continued with his offences after being released on bail and the constable guided him in picking targets and both shared the booty.
 
 Mico Layout police have registered a case against Armugam. “On March 27, we produced him before the court which remanded him in eight-day police custody. On Tuesday, we sought to extend his police custody as he’s involved in several theft cases and might be part of a nexus involving some police constables. He’s under police custody for four more days,” an officer said.
 
 “We have not found any evidence to say the constable was part of Armugam’s offences. We are still verifying his claims,” a senior police officer added.
 
 
