NEW DELHI: Eight out of 10 persons said the law on mandatory wearing of helmet should cover all two-wheeler riders and this should be enforced strictly, but more than half admitted not wearing one while riding. 

 Nearly three-fourths of respondents in a survey conducted across nine cities admitted that they had ridden pillion on two-wheelers without helmet.
 
 The study, carried out by Exide   in Delhi, Kolkata, Mumbai, Chennai, Ahmedabad, Chandigarh, Patna and Lucknow, found that about 30% of respondents cited “discomfort” as the main reason for not wearing helmet. 
 
 A little over one-fifth said they didn’t wear helmet because of “habit” and another 16% said law did not require mandatory wearing of helmet.
 
  
  
 
 Contrary to the perception of a certain section of people, the government has made it mandatory for everyone riding a motorised two-wheeler to wear an ‘ISI certified’ helmet for safety. 
 
 The proposed amendments in the Motor Vehicle Act provides for mandatory wearing of helmet for children above four years as well considering that a person meeting with an accident has 40% more chance of survival, if he/she is wearing a proper helmet and it is fastened.
 
 Notably, the survey showed that in two cities — Kolkata and Chandigarh — maximum number of people admitted not wearing helmet as a driver and as pillion rider as well, more re-spondents wanted the government to enforce the helmet law. 
 
 Against the national average of 82% respondents wanting the government to enforce the law, in Kolkata 90% and in Chandigarh 88% wanted proper enforcement.
 
 
 
 The   (SSB) claimed that it lost 10 times more troops in motorbike accidents in the last three years than at the borders or during operations/law and order duties in states. A report prepared by the Indo-Nepal border guarding force also said those getting killed in such road accidents were “in the prime of their lives, about 30-40 years of age”.
 
 “The report found that in the last three years, between 2015-17, 38 personnel of the SSB died in road accidents compared to only four deaths in the line of duty or operations along the borders and in counter-militancy duties in J&K,” PTI quoted the report as saying. 
 
 The report further said out of the 38 deaths of personnel in road accidents, 28 were killed when they were off duty while 10 died while on duty. “Bike accidents are the reason for death in majority of these cases,” the report said.
 
