GUWAHATI: With the credibility of the title of 'jatiya nayak' (national hero) fast eroding amid his government's continued silence on the controversial Citizenship (Amendment) Bill, CM   on Saturday said he would have no moral authority to hold on to power if he could not protect the interests of the people.

 
 "If I cannot protect the people's interests, there is no point to my staying on as chief minister," Sonowal said. This was Sonowal's first statement since the joint parliamentary committee (JPC) on the Bill started holding public hearings in the northeast five days ago, which triggered a division of opinion between the people of the Brahmaputra Valley, who opposed the Bill, and those in the Barak Valley, who supported it.
 
 The Citizenship (Amendment) Bill, 2016, that the Centre has proposed, seeks to make Hindus, Jains, Christians, Parsis and Buddhists of Pakistan, Bangladesh and Afghanistan eligible for Indian citizenship and bring down the residency period for eligibility from 11 years to six years - a contentious move in a region haunted by the spectre of the Bangladeshi migrant for decades. Sonowal said, "Our objective should be to keep the unity among people intact, no matter what sacrifice we have to make." The CM added that he would consult senior citizens and intellectuals on the matter as well.
 
 Sonowal's image as 'jatiya nayak' - bestowed upon him by the people of the state after the Supreme Court scrapped the Illegal Migrants (Determination by Tribunal) Act in 2005 after Sonowal filed a petition against it - has taken a beating over the past few days.
 
 "We will never go against the interests of the people of the state. When the Centre had imposed the IM (DT) Act, no JPC had been set up to hear the people out. Now, it is upon my request that the JPC has come here for public hearings," Sonowal said.
 
 "The JPC has not taken any decision as the hearings are not yet over. The panel has hinted, however, that it might come back for another round of hearings," Sonowal added.
 
 In the meantime, the Meghalaya government announced it would unanimously oppose the Bill, which led to protests in   against its government's "silence" on the matter. The BJP-led government is now under pressure from both within the government and people.
 
 While  's ally   (AGP) has threatened to walk out of the ruling three-party coalition if the Bill is passed, Sonowal is at the receiving end of growing public pressure to reject the Centre's proposal.
 
 On Saturday, AGP started a signature campaign against the Bill. Party members said they are planning to collect 50 lakh signatures from the state before sending it to the JPC. Congress has opposed the bill arguing the proposed law is against the spirit of the Assam Accord of 1985 and will affect update of   ( ).
 
