CHENNAI: Considering the need for river sand quarrying for the economic development of Tamil Nadu, and the fast approaching deadline (2022) to complete construction of 8.3 lakh houses for the homeless in the state under a Union government scheme, the Madras high court on Friday allowed sand mining, subject to the outcome of a plea pending in the   on the issue. 

 However, the division bench of Justices   and   has directed the government to maintain the balance, taking into account the need to preserve the ecology and to cater for the economic development. “The natural resources are valuable assets of the state. It is the primary duty of the state to conserve the natural resources for our future generation. The citizens must be in a position to enjoy the resources without causing damage to the environment and the ecology. There must be an institutional framework and enforcement mechanism to prevent illegal and excess quarrying. Mining should be undertaken by the state without any adverse impact on the environment. The state alone is responsible for this sorry state of affairs. There is no proper mechanism to check the illegal quarrying and the excess sand mining. The authorities who are given the mandate to operate the sand quarry are not at all concerned with the environment and ecology. They are conducting mining activities in collusion with the mining mafia and looting the natural wealth,” the bench said. 
 
 The court directed that quarrying operations, even in those quarries where there are shoals of sand, must abide by norms and conditions that environmental clearances mandate.
 
 The quarry site shall be closed immediately after rSSemoving the available shoals of sand. The area and the depth of the quarry shall be in accordance with the permission granted by the environmental authorities, the bench directed.
 
  The court also said the officer in-charge of the sand quarry must be made personally accountable for violation of any of the conditions. Both legal and departmental action should be taken against the officials indulging in illegal quarrying or excess quarrying in collusion with the lifting agents and transport operators. Noting that the present procedure of engaging sand lifting contractors must be abolished, the judges directed the state to appoint such lifters through e-tender. Pressing the need for continuous surveillance of the quarries, the court has directed the government to install CCTVs in the quarries and   in the earthmoving equipment to check overloading and to establish control rooms in Chennai and   to monitor quarrying..
 
 
