Pratyush.Raj@timesgroup.com

 Panchkula:   resurrected their title chase with a convincing 2-0 win against reigning champions   in a crucial   encounter at the Tau Devi Lal Stadium, here on Monday.
 
 Akash Sangwan (51st minute) gave the home side the lead, before Armand Bazie rounded off the tally with an injury time (95th minute) goal.
 
 Minerva coach Khogen Singh made just the one change to the XI that started in the loss against Gokulam FC. Amandeep Singh replaced Randeep Singh in the midfield. Gagandeep Bali was restored as the lone striker up front. He was supported by the troika of Chencho Gyeltshen, William Opoku and Akashdeep Singh.
 
 Aizawl coach Santosh Kashyap, on the other hand, made no changes to the starting XI that defeated Indian Arrows 3-0 in their last match.
 
 Coming off reverses in the last two outings at home, Minerva Punjab signalled their intentions right from the start and there was no let-up in the intensity as the first half progressed. Minerva clearly had the lion’s share of ball possession in a display of attacking football.
 
 However, a goal eluded the home team. The early signs, though, were positive as far as Minerva Punjab were concerned.
 
 In the 11th minute, Chencho was off in a flash dribbling past three Aizawl defenders, before shooting Amandeep Singh’s pass wide.
 
 Chencho was again in the thick of things but, despite a desperate attempt with his outstretched legs, could not reach Opoku’s pass.
 
 It was then Opoku’s chance to get a clear view of the goal, but his header from Kamalpreet’s cross on the right, too went wide.
 
 While Minerva Punjab were the dominant of the two teams, defending champions Aizawl FC too had their share of chances, and the midfield duo of Andrei Ionescu and Lalthathanga Khawlhring did keep the home defence busy.
 
 There was another opportunity but Chencho, after leaping high to meet a cross, shot the ball straight into the waiting hands of the rival goalkeeper.
 
 The script went on similar lines in the second half as well, as Minerva Punjab were on the lookout for goals.
 
 The hosts’ pressure finally paid off. For the first goal, Kamalpreet, who plays at the back for Minerva, started the move; midfield marshal William Opoku laid it for Chencho on the right before Sangwan’s left-footed attempt was thwarted by Avilash Paul. But Sangwan found the back of the net off the resultant rebound.
 
 Minerva completed the game with a strike late into the second half injury time when Opoku’s header off a Kamalpreet Singh free-kick landed on Armand’s path. Opoku made no mistake in putting the ball into an empty net with Avilash Paul nowhere in the picture.
 
 After losing the last two matches, there was a change in tactics from Minerva as they resorted to playing short passes in this game, though the second half saw them playing long balls on occasions.
 
 Reporters boycott Minerva Punjab press conference
 
 Sports journalists from Chandigarh boycotted Minerva Punjab's post-match press conference, here on Monday. The protest was against the Minerva team management after they put a ban on a journalist from The Tribune from covering the I-league match at the Tau Devi Lal Stadium in Panchkula.
 
 On Sunday, the club issued a gag order that prevented the said reporter from attending the pre-match conference on the eve of the club's crucial match against reigning champions Aizawl FC.
 
 Minerva Punjab management was apparently upset with a news report published on February 21, which highlighted how a man armed with a gun had roamed around on the stadium premises on February 20 during a match between Minerva and Gokulam Kerala FC at the Tau Devi Lal Stadium.
 
 The gun-toting man turned out to be a personal security officer of one of the directors of the club and the act was in violation of FIFA rules.
 
 An official of the All India Football Federation said the match commissioner of the game has already taken up the matter with the AIFF
 
 
