NAGPUR: The state government’s plastic ban will be hitting the packaged drinking water manufacturers hard. Though the state has exempted PET bottles from the ban, it has put the onus of recycling on the manufacturers which seems to be “beyond their reach”.

 According to the manufacturers, the state government’s stand has “no clarity”. “We have been informed that it would be mandatory for us to set up a recycling plant within three months from the day the ban comes into effect. A recycling plant will not be feasible for us,” said Apurva  , secretary of Greater Mumbai Packaged Drinking Water Manufacturers Association. 
 
 As reported by TOI earlier, the state government has decided to levy a refundable charge on milk pouches and PET bottles. “We are in a state of confusion. It is not clear why we have to set-up recycling units if cess is being levied. This state will continue until a detailed GR is available,” said the manufacturers. 
 
 The cost of setting-up a packaged drinking water manufacturing unit is reportedly about Rs2 crore while that of a plastic recycling unit can go up to Rs200 crores. “The existing units in the state need not necessarily have the space for a recycling plant,” said  , founder member of Packaged Drinking Water Manufacturers Association, Nagpur.
 
 Another cause of concern for the manufacturers is that unlike milk pouches, the ban has not exempted pouches of drinking water even though both of them are “made from the same raw material”. Said Bhartia, “A water pouch costs Rs2 while a bottle is priced around Rs20. Pouches would supply purified water to financially weaker sections of the society.” 
 
 The manufacturers are hoping that the state will allow them alternatives. “We are manufacturers of drinking water and not plastic. The responsibility of recycling should lie with all who those who are involved in the supply chain. For instance if a multinational industry is manufacturing PET resin, it should be forced to take measures for recycling,” said Doshi. 
 
 Another alternative can be roping in private agencies. “The existing plastic recycling units are falling short of material. They have high capacity and can be approached for recycling,” said Bhartia. According to Doshi, the state has 4-5 such units.
 
 The manufacturers also suggest that the government should allow them to form a consortium of multiple companies. “Rather than establishing recycling units individually, we can jointly set-up a common plant,” they said.
 
 
