PATNA: Even as a sunny Saturday brought cheers to shivering Patnaites, the   ( ) has forecast further respite from the biting cold conditions from Sunday as the fog and ‘cold day’ conditions were likely to decrease in their intensity and duration during the next 24 hours due to the likely strengthening of surface winds over the Indo-Gangetic plains.

 The all-India weather forecasting agency’s bulletin on Saturday, however, added that ‘cold wave’ conditions along with dense fog in the morning hours would continue at isolated places over the plains of northwest, central and east India till Sunday morning.
 
 The IMD’s all- India weather bulletin also cautioned against ‘cold wave’ conditions at isolated places in Bihar on Sunday and Monday and ‘cold day’ conditions at few places in the state over the next three days till Tuesday.
 
 Meteorological scientists call it a ‘cold day’ when the minimum temperature touches 10 degrees C or less and there is a departure of 4.5-6.4 degrees C in maximum temperature. ‘Severe cold day’, on the other hand, is declared when the minimum temperature touches 10 degrees C or less and there is a departure of more than 6.5 degrees C in maximum temperature.
 
 ‘Cold wave condition’, in meteorological parlance, is declared when the normal minimum temperature is 10 degrees Celsius or above, but the actual temperature is recorded at seven degrees C or less.
 
 Meanwhile, Patnaites on Saturday could see the sunshine from around 12 noon. What added to the relief was the morning minimum which stood at 6.6 degrees C, around two notches more than the 4.7 degrees C recorded on on Friday morning.
 
 The sunny day saw many Patnaites come outdoors to get a dose of vitamin ‘D’, medically believed to be generated in the skin through the sunlight.
 
 “I had mostly stayed indoors since Wednesday owing to the windy cold. Today, however, my entire family and I went to the Eco Park to enjoy the warm weather,” said   of Ashiana Nagar.
 
 Private weather agency   also stated on Saturday that the density of fog layer was decreasing and, as such, the sunlight should reach the surface early. It further said the wind velocity was likely to increase, causing further reduction in the fog density.
 
