MOHALI: Regular vigil maintained by Mohali administration against illegal miners has curbed the malpractice to an extent but the miners have resorted to continue the practice during midnight in   and Kharar areas. 

 Charandev Singh Mann, nodal officer and Additional Deputy Commissioner (ADC) said, "The recent raids and registration of FIRs have brought down the cases of illegal mining to a bare minimum. "Still, if anyone is carrying out the malpractice during night then it will be checked and stopped," said Mann. The illegal miners have been active in Khizrabad area of Kharar as the residents have alleged that they carry out the mining after midnight. "Perhaps, the chief minister of Punjab does not know about the illegal activity undergoing in villages in Kandi area. Despitre receiving numerous threats, I have been fearlessly raising the illegal mining issue," said  , former sarpanch of Khizrabad. "CM must fly over Khizrabad area once and he will be shocked to see more than 60 feet of land being dug up illegally to extract sand and gravel. Illegal mining is ruining the forest cover and the lands of our village. They7 have been uprooting the forest cover at an alarming rate and we have been raising the issue with administration but till date no action has been taken. More than 40 trucks operate every night from Khizrabad and there is no one to keep a check on the operation. On the other hand, around 74 FIR's have been registered in the district against illegal miners in recent past," Mann added.
 
 He said that in the previous year, around 66 FIRs have been registered against illegal miners in the district and 8 FIRs have been lodged at Derabassi, Kharar and Mullanpur in 2018.
 
 "We have been successful in closing down the illegal crushers operating in the district. Now, only those crushers which have obtained requisite permission of procuring raw material from prescribed sources are operational," stated Mann.
 
 After midnight the illegal mining is being carried out in Zirakpur, Khizrabad, Mullanpur, Parol, Majri and Kharar areas of Mohali despite of the fact that in July last year, deputy commissioner raided the Khizrabad area and found 40 illegal crushers operating at site.
 
 
