SHRAVANABELAGOLA: Over 4,000   are rendering a yeoman service at the 88th Mahamastabhisheka by lending a helping hand to people climbing the Vindhyagiri Hills, supplying water to pilgrims and managing the crowd.

 Students of various degree colleges in the country are taking part in the national camp at   by involving themselves in helping the district administration during the mega event which is expected to attract more than 40 lakh devotees.
 
 It is a common sight to see these foot soldiers standing all along the steps that lead to the monolith Bahubali by assisting old people climb the steps whilst keeping people of all age groups hydrated by providing them water.
 
 Toddlers are also carried by the scouts and guides in order to help the parents who are climbing the Vindhyagiri. The scouts and guides have been deployed at various points such as the Vindhyagiri hills, Chandragiri hills, bus stand, railway station, help centres, Bhojanalaya, traffic junctions and all the 12 satellite townships that have been set up as part of the  .
 
 Elaborating on the role of the scouts and guides, coordinator   said, “Their motto is service. The children are carrying out specific tasks assigned to them such as assisting people in climbing the hills and providing them water.” They are also creating awareness among people at the Bhojanalayas by requesting them not to waste food, Madhusudhan added.
 
 Staff organizing commissioner of the scouts and guides M   said, “The children have been instructed to dump waste strewn by people into the dustbins and they are doing a commendable job. They are also easing the movement of traffic along with the police personnel and managing the crowd.”
 
 To carry Swarnakamal
 
 Having won over the trust of the mutt and the district administration, the scouts and guides have been given the responsibility to transport the Swarnakamal – which is a made out of   and used in the various rituals held as part of Mahamastakabhisheka.
 
 Quotes
 
 Service is our motto. Rather than thinking about what scouting has given us, we are asked to think about what we can give to scouting.
 
 – Nagaraj H K, Govt. First Grade College, Shivamogga
 
 We have been receiving appreciation from people for the service rendered. We have helped old people and the differently abled which is a matter of pride for us
 
 – Manjunath D R, Govt. First Grade College, Shivamogga.
 
 It is a unique experience to serve the people on the occasion of Mahamastakabhisheka. I feel happy that I could help many people
 
 –   K, Govt. First Grade College, Channarayapatna.
 
 
