NEW DELHI: Around 1,000   in   have three months to move their businesses to the specially demarcated market in Narela or face closure. On Friday, they met with   officials on how to fulfil the order passed by Delhi high court on March 6 requiring the traders to move lock, stock and barrel to the new integrated chemical market.

 “All the traders are ready to shift to Narela within the time frame prescribed by the court,” asserted Pradeep Gupta, president, Chemical Merchants’ Association. The court has ordered the   to shut down any business that does not relocate to Narela within four months of March 6.
 
 On January 19, TOI had reported that even after 17 years of the integrated complex being developed in Narela, around 32 km from the current hub, and DDA allotting 640 plots to traders, not a single businessman had shifted despite the new market being well connected to the road network and having good sewerage, water supply and storm-water drains. The reluctance of traders to move in has left the vacant complex unkempt and used by locals to dump garbage and for open defecation.
 
  
 After the meeting with DDA on Friday, Shyam Sundar, general secretary of the association, said, “The traders allotted plots for shops and storage in Narela are finalising the formalities needed to start construction work. Within three months, we can start shifting.”
 
 The need to move the highly hazardous chemical trade out of the densely peopled lanes in Tilak Bazar, Khari Baoli and surrounding localities in the   has been felt ever since the business grew to become Asia’s biggest over 90 years ago. The blaze in Bawana was an example of how no ambulance or fire tender can reach some of the units there.
 
 Traders have been reluctant to shift from the nerve centre of Old Delhi to far-flung Narela for business reasons. “Since the current market is centrally located, retail customers from across the city come there. Not many would like to travel to Narela for retail purchases,” said a trader. According to an estimate, 25% of the total chemical trade in Old Delhi comprises retail sales.
 
 The traders also apprehend operational problems, including the workforce. “Where will the labour put up?” asked one trader. “Besides it will be tougher to contract workers in Narela than in the Walled City.” 
 
 However, shifting of the chemical market will go a long way in decongesting the crowded lanes of Old Delhi, while bringing down pollution and removing a potential fire hazard. Also, since Old Delhi supplies chemical products to different regions across northern India, the transportation of wholesale goods will only become easier out of Narela.
 
 
