BENGALURU: The high court on Tuesday directed the Central Administrative Tribunal ( ) Bengaluru to consider afresh the application filed by  ,  , against her transfer.

 The court noted that the CAT, while asking the officer to submit a representation to the chief secretary, hadn’t actually taken a decision on her application.
 
 Disposing of Sindhuri’s petition, a division bench headed by Chief Justice Dinesh Maheshwari directed all parties to the dispute to appear before the tribunal on April 2. The court also specified that until CAT disposes of her application, status quo should be maintained on her posting.
 
 In case of D Randeep, who is yet to get a posting after being transferred as Hassan DC, the court said its Tuesday order won’t hinder the government from taking an appropriate decision. He may be posted to any other place, subject to the decision on Sindhuri’s application or allowed to continue in his present status of ‘awaiting’ a posting order at Mysuru.
 
 Sindhuri had moved the high court challenging the CAT’s March 21 order, asking her to submit a representation to the chief secretary over the transfer issue. She claimed it was the chief secretary who had issued the transfer order at the chief minister’s behest and that it would be impossible for her to get justice by approaching the same bureaucrat (CS).
 
 On March 7, Sindhuri was transferred as commissioner of the department of employment and training, Bengaluru, and Mysuru DC D Randeep was posted in her place. Sindhuri was posted as Hassan deputy commissioner in July 2017.
 
 Case against Ashoka: HC extends stay till May 30
 
 In a relief for former deputy chief minister R Ashoka and co-accused B Karthik, the high court on Tuesday extended till May 30 the interim stay order on the probe and further proceedings in relation to an FIR registered in the Bagar-Hukum land scam.
 
 The interim order granted earlier was in force till March 31. 
 
 While Ashoka is accused no. 1, Karthik, a resident of Yelachenahalli who got 4 acres of land, is accused no.10 in the case registered by the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB). Ashoka claimed the case was registered for political reasons with an oblique motive just before the assembly polls.
 
 
