Adi Rangam – a unique festival showcasing the rich and diverse tribal traditions of India’s indigenous and tribal communities – took place at  , Barcem, in the Quepem taluka, recently. Organised by the National School of Drama, New Delhi, the event was hosted in collaboration with the Directorate of Art and Culture, and featured theatre, music, dance and crafts from all over India.
 Over 400 tribal artistes from across the country, including Tripura, Odisha, Sikkim, Assam, West Bengal, Telangana, Nagaland, Meghalaya, Arunachal Pradesh, Rajasthan, Ladakh (J&K), Gujarat, Chhattisgarh, Haryana, Maharashtra and Goa, participated in the festival. Here's a look at some performances that blew the audience away.
   :
  Performed by the Nyishi tribe from Arunachal Pradesh, the dance form usually sees women dress up and play the role of men as well.
  Gusadi:
  Performed by the tribes of Telangana, the dancers wear peacock feathers on their heads and tie ghungroo to their feet. This too is performed during the harvest festival, with shehnai and dhol in the background.
   :
  This is a popular folk dance during Shigmotsav in Goa, besides at other festivals and rituals. The dancers perform to the energetic beats of the ghumat, taasha and sticks.
  Wangala:
  Wangala is a harvest festival celebrated by the Garo tribes of Meghalaya, wherein they pray to Misi Saljong, the sun god of fertility, and ask him to protect the crops.
  Daosri Delai:
  Daosri means love birds, and delai refers to the dress that they wear. A traditional dance from Bodo in Assam, it features women dancing like birds, and professing their love.
  Sahariyas:
  The Sahariyas is a farming tribe that lives in the district of Shahabad in Gujarat, and are known for their three different types of dance forms – Bhasmasur, Kali and Holi. These dances are based on mythological stories.
  Sumi Totimi Aphilokuwo:
  The Sumi tribe from Nagaland celebrates the harvest festival Ahunam with this dance.
  Mayurbhanj Chhau:
  This is a common tribal folk dance from the Mayurbhanj district of Odisha, which first originated in the forests there in the 18th century, and later became a martial arts form, supported by the royal family. There are three type of Chhau: Seraikela, Purulia and Mayurbhanj.
  Ghantu:
  This folk dance from Sikkim, patronized by the Gurung community, depicts the colourful lifestyle of the people of the land. It is usually performed by young girls wearing traditional costumes and headgear.
   :
  Sangrain is a social festival observed by the Mog Community in Tripura in the month of March/April to invite the New Year. On these days, people carry water in auspicious pitchers and silver pots to wash the statue of Lord Buddha.
   :
  Every year in the month of October and November, the tribals of Tripura, dance on the occasion of the Mamita harvest festival to the beats of kham (drums) and other traditional musical instruments.
   :
  The been/pungi is one of the oldest musical instruments in India. Various trees and plants are used to make this instrument, and it is believed that the been can be used to please the Snake God, and that the dance can end all sickness in any village that it is performed in.
