KOLKATA : After a relatively warm spell, chill made a surprise return to Kolkata on Monday. A western disturbance across north-west India and snowfall in the Kashmir hills brought the   down and kept the city cloudy early in the morning. The sudden temperature fluctuation could trigger viral infections, warned doctors.

 On Monday, Kolkata recorded a minimum temperature of 16.6°C, which is normal. It could remain chilly till Wednesday when the western disturbance is scheduled to move away, paving the way for the warmth to come back.
 
 It had been predicted that the minimum temperature in the city will hover between 18°C-20°C this week. But the western disturbance made the mercury plunge, according to  , deputy director general of meteorology. “The sudden appearance of the western disturbance brought the chill back. We also have a northerly wind that is carrying the chill from north-west. Once the disturbance recedes on Wednesday, the mercury will rise again,” said Bandopadhyay.
  
  
 The sudden drop in temperature is set to activate a range of viruses, said doctors. Temperature fluctuation leads to quick multiplication of viruses, according to Debashish Saha, consultant at  . “Respiratory viruses like rhinovirus and gastro-intestinal viruses like echovirus, coxsackie virus and rota virus are very common at this time of the year. While coxsackie affects the adults, children are more prone to rota. Rhino spreads very quickly at public places,” said Saha.
 
 Those with lower immunity, like children and the elderly, were more at risk, pointed out  , microbiologist. “Those on dialysis, cardiac patients, diabetics, or those suffering from lymphoma or leukemia are also susceptible to viral infections at this time of the year. This is also the season for chicken pox and children again are more likely to catch the infection. A fever with rashes is also triggered by a kind of virus which is not chicken pox. It spreads from schools,” said Akhtar.
 
 The sudden slide in mercury caught Kolkatans off guard. Woollens had been shelved and wrappers stashed away even as the mercury crawled past 20°C last week. Many had even switched on fans when it started getting chilly late on Sunday evening. The chill persisted in the morning, leaving everyone surprised.
 
 “This is just what you shouldn’t be doing. Switching on fans and discarding woollens, especially in the evenings, could be risky. There is now a big difference between the afternoon temperature and the evening temperature. While it could be warm and sunny in the afternoon, evenings are suddenly turning cold. Viruses thrive in this weather,” said Arindam Biswas, consultant, RN Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences (RTIICS).
 
 Warmth proliferates bacterial growth, so a second spate of infections could be round the corner, said Biswas.” Food poisoning is also common since food gets stale quicker than in winter. Bacteria grows and multiplies very quickly in food when the mercury spirals,” he added.
 
 
 
