KOLKATA: Taking lessons from last year’s   outbreak, the   ( ) has decided to take on the mosquito menace from January itself. Last year, the anti-dengue drive had started in early March.

 To begin with, KMC is set to train its health department staff to identify aedes aegypti, a mosquito breed responsible for outbreak of dengue. This training is necessary for the civic health staff working in the dengue-prone areas. The trained personnel will be deployed in carrying out an anti-dengue drive by the end of January in areas where number of dengue cases registered a stiff rise last year. In fact, the KMC health department officials in the worst affected boroughs have already requisitioned for more staff for their respective vector control departments which suffered a setback in dengue prevention in 2017 for want of infrastructure.
 
 For instance, take Borough X. According to KMC health department records, this borough topped the list of dengue deaths last year. The civic health department personnel struggled to control the spread of dengue from one place to another under borough X. Some of the worst affected areas in the borough included Golf Green, Prince Anwar Shah, Lake Gardens, Jodhpur Park, Bijoygarh, Netajinagar and Bansdroni. Some other areas in the southern fringes and off EM Bypass, where dengue scare was at its peak last year were Behala, Jadavpur, Mukundapur, Kasba and Garfa.
 
  
  
 In north Kolkata, the focus this year would be on areas where dengue staged a comeback — Rajballavpara, Bagbazar, Girish Park and M G Road. In these areas, the civic teams were caught off guard when it came to fighting the menace. Besides an acute shortage of manpower to take up the dengue prevention drive, the civic body’s initiative was futile in absence of coordination among the health, building, conservancy departments. “In some cases, the conservancy department did not pay heed to undertaking a special drive in areas where dengue was rampant. The building department was expected to play its role in serving notices to the underconstruction buildings which were storing stagnant water on their premises, thereby inviting a mosquito menace,” said a KMC health department official.
 
 Times View
 
 This is a welcome departure from normal practice. It is better to be proactive about these things rather than react to the problem when it is already there.
 
