KOLKATA: Consuming carcass meat could have both short-term as well as long-term impact on health and could even prove fatal in some cases, warned experts.

 
 Bacterial contamination in rotten flesh causes a lethal form of diarrhoea, unless cooked at a temperature of at least 100 degrees Celsius, which is far above the usual cooking temperature. Decomposed meat has toxic molecules that affect nitrogen metabolism turnover in the body and could lead to kidney malfunction. “The most common form of carcass bacteria that causes the virulent form of diarrhoea is clostridium that takes effect in about six hours from the time of consumption and could be fatal,” said   consultant Debashish  . “The common manifestations of clostridium are severe abdominal pain, loose motions and dehydration.”
 
 Staphylococcal bacteria-triggered food poisoning could be another fallout, he added. “Rotten, decomposed carcasses are also full of staphylococcus bacteria. It causes severe stomach pain and vomiting within two-four hours of consuming infected meat,” Saha said.
 
 Untreated, non-edible carcasses were infested with bacteria and fungi that released harmful toxins, pointed out  , consultant at  . “Other than staphylococcus and clostridium, rotten flesh have maggot and e-coli bacteria, apart from a host of micro-organisms that could wreak havoc on the human digestive system. Decomposed meat turns liquid after digestion in the large intestine. During this process, the bacteria present in the meat releases toxins that could have a long-term impact on kidneys. Repeated consumption of carcass meat could lead to kidney malfunction,” said Naskar.
 
 Dog carcasses, suspected to be the most frequently retrieved meat from Kolkata dumpyards and supplied to certain eateries, have toxocara or a parasite that causes liver enlargement, vision impairment and inflammation in heart. “That apart, dog carcasses could be infested with tapeworm, hookworm, roundworm and whipworm. All these may lead to intestinal malabsorption, diarrhoea or allergy. Bloody diarrhoea is very common,” said R N Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences consultant (RTIICS) consultant  . He pointed out that it was a misconception that once cooked, carcass meat turned free of bacteria and worms. “Unless boiled at 100 degrees Celsius, residual bacteria and worms could remain. Meat is rarely cooked at that temperature,” he added.
 
 While carnivorous animals can absorb and digest carcass meat, along with its bacteria and worms, the human digestive system was much weaker, Naskar said. “It can’t break down or destroy the toxins that persist in the system and continue to affect our organs,” he said. Cacass meat-induced diarrhoea has to be treated with antibiotics. In severe cases, intravenous saline could be necessary.
 
 “Salmonella or toxocara could cause severe complications if the infection is allowed to persist. The sooner the bacteria and the worms are killed, the lower would be the chances of longterm damage. So, antibiotics are the best way to treat carcass diarrhoea,” said Biswas.
 
