JAIPUR: The   police of   on Sunday foiled a robbery bid by conmen who had invited four persons to their village near   on the pretext of selling them a car for which they had placed an advertisement on OLX website. Police have arrested one person in this connection and identified four more who managed to flee from the scene.

 According to the police, the four persons saw an advertisement on OLX of a car in which the seller quoted a price of Rs 4.5 lakh and claimed it was a 2016 model. “All the four persons arrived here in Jurhera and contacted the person who had given his cell number on the website. Thereafter, all these were kept hostage by the accused who also demanded more money from them. We got a tip off and with the help of locals could arrest the main accused identified as Shaqeel (25) while four other identified persons managed to flee from the scene. The four victims were rescued and we have recovered their stolen mobile phones and Rs 5,600 from their possession,” said  , station house officer, Jurhera while talking to TOI on Sunday.
 
 According to the police, this was the sixth incident in past one fortnight which was foiled by the police. “Our local informers are timely updated on the arrival of people from various states and districts, thus with the help of locals we are raiding places and arresting these conmen who later turn kidnappers and robbers,” said a senior police officer of Bharatpur police.
 
 “We have registered a case under section 120-B (criminal conspiracy), 384 (Extortion) and 364-A (Kidnapping for ransom) against the five accused in this connection. Attempts are on to arrest the fleeing accused,” said Singh.
 
 In 2017, at least 30 such cases were witnessed where people from various parts of India visited areas including Kaman, Deeg, Pahari and Jurhera dominated by the Meos after seeing various billboards. After they visited these places they were robbed. The seller whose number were put on the OLX site asked the customers to visit their village and after latter visited they were cheated.
 
 
