In the latest episode of  , Kritika (Tanuja in her earlier birth) gazes at the moon. Her cousin, Mayuri starts teasing her and says that she will help Kritika get ready for the function. Balraj tells his Tauji that he is worried for Ranbir after getting the reports. He starts crying and his wife, Mahima makes fun of him. Tauji tells him to make him talk to Ranbir.

 
 Ranbir mocks Balraj and says that he doesn't know what to say to Tauji on the phone. Balraj tells him to talk to Tauji for him just once.
 
 
  
  
 
 Mayuri is talking to her fiance on the phone. Kritika takes the phone away from her but the call gets disconnected. As Ranbir tries to call Tauji, his call gets disconnected too. 
 
 The call gets misconnected and Ranbir ends up talking to Kritika. He is surprised to find a woman talking on the other side and asks her to connect him to Tauji. Ranbir flirts with her on the phone. As she talks to him, Kritika feels very comfortable and says that she feels she has known him for a long while. Ranbir asks her to look at the moon and says that both of them will feel connected this way. Kritika disconnects the call.
 
 Kritika tells Mayuri that her fiance tried to flirt with her and warns her against marrying him. Suddenly, the lights come back on and Kritika's mother tells them to hurry up and get ready for the wedding.
 
 Kritika talks to herself and prays to God to never get a flirtatous guy like him in her life. Meanwhile, Ranbir feels connected to Kritika and feels like meeting her.
 
 Kritika's mother asks her to dress beautifully for the wedding as there will be many people waiting to see her. Kritika says that she does not want to get married rightaway and wants to focus on her career. Her mother gets emotional and says that she wants to see Kritika settled as per her late father's wishes. She prays to find a good guy for her. Kritika cries and hugs her.
 
 As Kritika gets ready, her mother watches the news channel, she spots a man who looks exactly like her husband. She comes to know he is alive and is living in Mumbai.
 
 
 
