CHANDIGARH : Crumbling, uprooted sandstone tiles have left an uneven and dangerous walking surface for shoppers in   but the municipal corporation doesn’t have the money to repair 65 connecting passages in the city’s central market. The job will take almost Rs 5 crore.

 During a visit to Sector 17, a team from   found the corridors marked with broken old tiles. The team heard complaints from the visitors that it was unsafe to walk on these tiles, as it might lead to twisted ankles or foot injuries. People who run shops along these passages say they are tired of raising the matter with the civic authorities.
 
 The   records suggest that even in a December 2017 survey of these 65 passages, area councillor   and his team had found the footpaths disintegrating, giving an ugly look to the heart of the city. In its report, the survey team had proposed Rs 4.9 crore as repair budget for these passages, since a vast majority of the footpath tiles were broken and the visitors could no longer use many corridors.
 
 On the basis of this report, a new design of tiles was sent to an engineering institute for consideration and approved. After the approval, the municipal corporation even floated tenders but the repair work is yet to begin. A broke MC has put brakes on many development works in Chandigarh and stopped the payment of contractors, who are discontented because of it. Even in 2016, a proposal was mooted to repair these connecting passages. The proposed budget was Rs 3.95 crore, which increased by Rs 1 crore last year. After this, the area councillor asked the civic authorities to constitute a team to monitor the state of these corridors and prepare a report. The MC sought repair money under the   project but these passages were not covered under that scheme. The MC will have to repair these surfaces on its own.
 
 Sector-17 councillor Ravi Kant Sharma said that the repair proposal was approved in December 2017 but the scarcity of resources with the civic authorities had delayed the execution of the plan. He said: “I am aware that the visitors to Sector 17 are unable to use most of these corridors. I have asked the MC to reconstruct these passages on priority as soon as it has money in hand.”
 
 Manmohan Luthra, one of the visitors to Sector 17, said: “I am pained to see the condition of the oldest commercial hub of Chandigarh’s. Sector 17 has become unrecognisable. People are tired complaining to the civic authorities about the bad condition of footpaths. The sight of trees roots covered with charcoal appalls me but all this complaining is futile.”
 
 The ground sinks the moment someone puts a foot over it. In many corridors, the tiles are jutting out of the ground with pointy edges and rough corners, enough to leave a pedestrian bleeding. The ground beneath the visitors' feet is shaky and you never know when the next tile might sink
 
 
