NEW DELHI: Midway through last year, Bhutanese forward   was playing an exhibition match for Chittagong Abahani, Bangladesh Premier League's top-tier club. Tired of not being recognised – he is the leading scorer for his country with 10 goals from 28 matches – Chencho, during his off season, opted to play for clubs that carried not much weightage. India was an option; in fact Chencho was keen on finding a toehold here, but he wasn't considered "good enough " by the country's top clubs.

 
 
 
 All that changed when one day Chencho logged into his Facebook account to see a message from his Spanish agent, which stated that  , who were looking to shake things up, were interested in him. Chencho hesitated at first but finally took the offer; apparently after a hefty pay cut. However, if Chencho were to sit and reflect back at that deal now, he wouldn't mind it one bit. He played a pivotal role in leading Minerva all the way to   glory, triumphing against all odds and emerging as the third-highest scorer with seven goals. Less than a year ago, Minerva were battling to avoid the wooden spoon. Today, they are champions.
 
 Talking to TOI Sports, Chencho underlined how he had almost given up on the opportunity to play in India. He faced rejections from Mohun Bagan and East Bengal, two teams who didn't believe Chencho was the solution to their muddled combinations. Earlier, Chencho had received offers from ISL franchises Delhi Dynamos and Pune City FC, who even offered him trials. But his commitment towards a club in Thailand delayed his ambition of playing in India.
  
 
 
 
 "Some agent from India contacted me and they wanted me to give trial for Pune and Delhi. But that time, I was playing for Buriram FC. So probably it was bad timing. That was in 2016 so I had still not lost hope. But when East Bengal and Mohun Bagan didn't show any interest either, I thought maybe I was just not meant to be playing here," Chencho says.
 
 "But just when I was about to give up, my agent informed me that he and Minerva had got in touch informed me that something could work out. I read everything about Minerva and came for a trial. They had done really good in the second-division of the I-League in 2016 so that was one of the incentives. The club isn't too famous but I thought it would be a good opportunity.
 
 
 
 "When I came here for the first time, it was a big challenge for me to play against big clubs. Last season, Minerva topped so I was worried at the beginning of the season. Since everyone underestimated Minerva Punjab. I was worried about the results but now it's all worked according to plan. Also, it was sweet to score against East Bengal. I realised how I had become the one they always targetted."
 
 Minerva's title triumph is historic, and Chencho has been at the center of it. He played a pivotal role in the club's almost unbeaten start in the competition. The 21-year-old scored an equaliser against Neroca FC that fashioned an inspiring 2-1 win over and followed it by scoring the lone goal in the team's 1-0 win over Indian Arrows at home. Throughout the season, barring a little blip in the last couple of weeks, Minerva ruled the I-League standings. Even when Chencho wasn't among the ones scoring, he was content as long as he was contributing to the team.
 
 "I think our success is a combination of efforts put in by the players, coaches and owner Ranjit Bajaj. Throughout the season we have been the dominant team. If you notice carefully, you will realise that almost 80 percent of the goals we have scored have come in the second half. The reason behind the pattern is the kind of squad we had gathered. The boys are so young, so energetic and want to fight till the end. This is what I really like about Minerva boys. We don't indulge in anything special; it's always been the usual drill," Chencho says.
 
 Such has been Chencho's influence that club owner Bajaj called him the X-factor of the team. He has been named Player of the Match thrice and besides registering himself on the scoring sheet seven times, Chencho has aided with countless assists. This was most visible during Minerva's final game of the season, against Churchill Brothers, where the Bhutanese kept mounting pressure with his passes. He almost scored the match's opener in the eighth minute when a low Girik Khosla cross wasn't dealt with properly and later sent in a threatening looking cross that again went wide of the post. 
 
 
  
 
 
 "I think I have been lucky to be in the right place at the right time. He [Ranjit Bajaj] is the one who always wants me to move up. He knows my capability and he always encourages me to move up and I like that. Any athlete will. For me, he's the main guy," Chencho says.
 
 His journey to the top-tier of Indian football has been full of twists and turns. In fact, for Chencho, the man known by many as   or CG 7 – having modelled himself after his idol Cristiano Ronaldo – turns out football wasn't his first love. "When I was young, I had no idea about football. My brother has always been very good in martial arts and I looked up to him. So I wanted to train in Martial Arts. I even started training and was doing quite well in it. One day, while training in Thimpu at a Martian Arts camp, I saw many young players playing football. I decided to give it a try and instantly fell in love with the game," Chencho says.
 
 Despite figuring out what he had to do as early as the age of 11, a large chunk of Chencho's career went underutilised; reason being Bhutan's reluctance towards embracing football. The lack of recognition towards the sport has been Chencho's biggest letdown, and a factor that by his own admission, affected his game. That, in fact, was one of the many reasons behind Chencho's interest of pursuing football outside of Bhutan. In India, he saw a potential career with the introduction of the ISL, and the inclination only grew once the country successfully hosted the Under 17 FIFA World Cup. Back home, things have changed for the better but the overall scenario is far from being properly looked after.
 
 "Earlier football wasn't that popular. But after we beat Bangladesh and Sri Lanka, football is really starting to gain popularity in Bhutan," he says. "The problem though is that we don't have too many good sponsors, and not many are willing to inject money. It has changed a lot after we've won. Earlier, the national players never used to get any salary, or the basic facilities. But after we defeated Sri Lanka, it has been a bit different. Players get some Nu. 10000 per month (equivalent to Rs 10000) and a number of big sponsors and federations are also showing interest. But this is just the start, and I am worried that lack of matches will dust away the hard work."
 
 "So I guess when I return to Bhutan, I'd take all the wonderful experience I've had in India and use it for the betterment of football there. My agent tells me that playing for Minerva has made me popular in Bhutan. I just hope I could use one-tenth of that popularity to help football grow there."
 
