Puducherry: Lt governor Kiran   on Monday urged Prime Minister Narendra   to direct the ministry concerned to constitute the   and Cauvery   regulation committee at the earliest.

 Bedi in her letter told Modi that she had accorded approval to the Union territory’s administration to file an interlocutory petition before the  , to expedite the process of constitution of the board and committee, so as to ensure the livelihood of hapless farmers of the Karaikal region of the  . 
 
 She marked copies of her letter to Union home minister  , Union water resources minister Nitin Jairam Gadkari and Puducherry chief minister V  .
 
 “The farmers of Karaikal region have waited for long for the implementation of the final award of the   water disputes tribunal (CWDT), now confirmed by the judgment of the Supreme Court. However, the filing of a clarificatory petition (by the Union government) seeking an extension of time has created anxiety and unrest among the farming community of the Union territory,” she said.
 
 Recalling the SC order confirming 7tmc Cauvery water allocation to the UT, she underscored the importance of constituting the aboard and committee to ensure fair release of the water. She also pointed out to the SC order directing the Union government to frame a scheme under the Interstate water disputes act, 1956 within six weeks.
 
 “Agricultural operations in Karaikal are entirely dependent on the timely release of water from the river Cauvery. Due to an inordinate and abysmally low quantum of water released, the area under cultivation has drastically reduced affecting the livelihood of farmers and the farm workers there,” she said.
 
 Earlier in the day, three AIADMK MLAs led by legislature party leader A Anbalagan staged an agitation by raising slogans against Bedi and the Union government in front of Raj Nivas to register their protest against Bedi for reportedly refusing to accord permission to file a contempt of court case against the Union government for failing to honour the SC order. The MLAs were arrested and released later.
 
 Meanwhile, the ruling Congress party convened an all-party meeting on Monday evening to evolve strategies on the next course of action in securing Puducherry’s fair share of Cauvery water.
 
 
