Patna/Gaya: Three terror suspects were arrested from different locations in Gaya town on Saturday for their alleged allegiance to Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS). They were identified as   (24), Mohammad Shammi (22) and Mohammad Shaad (22).

 The National Investigation Agency (NIA) and   (IB) sleuths, along with Gaya police, conducted the raids and arrested the three. Arms and ammunition, including a country-made 9mm pistol, were also seized from their possession.
 
 Sources said they were under surveillance for their alleged involvement in financial transactions made for terror funding and luring youths over to the ISIS. Incidentally, two posters with an appeal to the youths to join ISIS were found in Rohtas and Aurangabad in   in the last one year. Sources said the three have their associates in Jammu and Kashmir, Maharashtra, Kerala and UP.
 
 A senior intelligence officer said Anwar was running a marble-cutting shop at Maroofganj under the Civil Lines police station area in Gaya, while the other two were working as covert agents for ISIS to build its network for terror attack across the country.
 
 “A special team comprising officers of central intelligence agencies and Gaya police was formed after specific intelligence input on the trio. They were kept under surveillance for several weeks. Shammi and Shaad were picked up from the Kotwali police station area in the town on the basis of Anwar’s interrogation,” the officer said, adding more suspects might be arrested soon.
 
 On January 19, Jamaat-ul-Mujahideen   (JMB) terrorists had planted three IEDs near Kalchakra ground, Mahabodhi Temple and Tibetan monastery in Bodh Gaya with a motive to kill monks in order to avenge the alleged atrocities by the Buddhists on   in Myanmar. The NIA has recently taken over the probe from Gaya police in this case.
 
 On September 12 last year, Indian Mujahideen (IM) terrorist and 2008 Ahmedabad serial blast accused Tausif Khan was also arrested in Gaya. Tausif, posing as schoolteacher Atique, had meetings with sympathizers of banned outfit Students Islamic Movement of India (SIMI) in the country.
 
 
