AHMEDABAD/NADIAD: When  , 36, a resident of Nirmali village near Kapadwanj in  , was returning home from Lasundra on December 26 on his bike, something hit him and he fell down, sustaining injuries. He was spotted by a man from his village who got him admitted to a hospital in Kapadwanj.

 The nature of the injury on Bharwad’s neck was peculiar as the doctors believed that it might be an injury caused by a rod and asked him to go to Civil Hospital in Ahmedabad for further check-up. When Bharwad underwent tests, he along with the doctors were surprised — he had been shot but the bullet had grazed him.
 
 The diagnosis was made on the basis of burning marks left behind by the bullet. A bullet was also found eventually from the coat he had worn on that night.
 
 Maninder Singh Pawar, SP, Kheda, said that the case was peculiar as Bharwad time and again stressed that he had no enemies and he could not even feel the sensation of being shot. “We registered a case of attempt to murder and started working on theories such as accidental shot by someone aiming for blue bull or attempt of robbery. But the theories did not fit. The team of local crime branch (LCB) then started probing his personal history,” he said.
 
 VJ Rathod, inspector of Kheda LCB, told TOI that working on technical intelligence, they got leads on Bharwad’s wife Sonal. We checked her phone and got to know that she was regularly in touch with a person — even on the day of the incident. We then probed further and established identity of the person as Navghan Bharwad, a resident of Moti Bordi, Modasa. Sonal admitted that she was in love with Navghan,” he said.
 
 Investigators said that the duo, arrested on January 6, established sequence of events. “Sonal, a BA (psychology) graduate, was not happy about her marriage with Bharward, working as a cook. She was in touch with Navghan, working at an APMC and was in touch with him for seven years. The duo had planned Haresh’s murder and as part of the plan had procured a country-made pistol for Rs 30,000 from a Rajasthan native. On the night of December 26, Sonal called Haresh multiple times to know his location,” said an official.
 
 Haresh, riding a bike, wore a coat with the collar turned up and had earphones on. As the bike rode past, Navghan fired a shot. Haresh rode for a few feet and then collapsed on side of the road. Navghan then fled from the spot. 
 
 
