KOLKATA: After taking a decision to set   annual examination from 2018-19 session, the   (CISCE) has asked all schools to submit five randomly selected   of each subject to them. The   for both the classes will commence at 9am for each paper set by the Council.

 
 The list of subjects for which the question papers will be set — 10 subjects for Class IX and 16 subjects for Class XI — by the CISCE has already been sent to the schools. The question papers can be downloaded from the internal (CAREERS) portal only on the day and at the time determined by the Council. For the subjects not mentioned in the list, the schools will need to prepare their own question papers. These subjects will need to be integrated into the timetable received from the Council.
 
 CISCE has also decided that timetables for both classes IX and XI will be set without any breaks in between two papers. The timetables and question papers will be different for the Hills schools and those on the plains with the examinations being held in November and February or March respectively.
 
 In a circular sent to the schools on Thursday, CISCE chief executive and secretary Gerry Arathoon said that the clarification was being sent to the Council’s circulars to schools in March and April 3 regarding the setting of question papers in select subjects for classes IX and XI annual examination from the academic year 2018-19. “The Council is in receipt of several letters from the heads of schools expressing apprehension, raising queries and seeking clarification on the Council’s initiative of setting question papers for classes IX and XI in select subjects. The points which answer common queries and put to rest the apprehension and doubts raised therein are given,” reads Arathoon’s mail.
 
 Promotion will be granted to classes X and XII as per CISCE’s academic and attendance criteria. “It has been mentioned that for promotion from Class IX to Class X, the cumulative average of the terminal examination or unit test marks achieved by the candidate throughout the academic year in subjects he has been registered for should be considered. A candidate should obtain at least 33% marks in five subjects, including English, on the cumulative average,” said principal of Rammohan Mission School, Sujoy Biswas.
 
 Principal of Central Modern School in Baranagar, Nabarun De, said, “The clarifications are crystal clear.”
 
 
