If it goes as planned, in a year’s time, people in Chennai may not be at the mercy of auto drivers infamous for fleecing and harassing people.

 
  
 
 Once the GPS-enabled fare metres come into play, auto drivers will not be in a situation to operate the vehicles without switching on the metres. 
 
 The government brought the idea of digital fare meters in 2013. It was delayed for various reasons. 
 
 A common concern raised by passengers was that many auto drivers do not turn on the meters, even if requested. 
 
 In the new model, Auto Richshaw Monitoring and Inspection System (ARMIS), which is currently being tested at a control centre at  , a special notification pops up on the live GPS screen if an   tries to advance without the meter on. 
 
 “Even if the meter is off (sleep mode), an internal battery keeps the GPS system running. Personnel at the control centre will immediately call up the driver concerned to check the status,” said a transport department official. Therefore, any vehicle fitted with this device can be monitored 24/7. 
 
 Another important feature of the system is that the meter, which calculates the fare based on the distance travelled, includes the time spent on waiting (due to traffic snarls or on passenger’s request), the official added. “This would prevent any argument between the driver and the passenger.” 
 
 A mini-printer attached to the meter generates a fare receipt at the end of every trip and a passenger can file a complaint with the toll free helpline number (18004255430) if the driver demanded more. 
 
 In such cases, personnel at the control centre check if the driver had taken a circuitous route to earn more and would recommend for necessary action if they had done so. 
 
 Besides this, notifications pop up even if the auto meter or the printer is tampered with. By this, we can make sure that the drivers have no other options but to collect only what the government has fixed, the transport department official said. 
 
 Also, in an attempt to improve the safety of passengers, panic buttons are provided in all the meters. Once an alarm is raised, it reaches the nearest police station for immediate action. 
 
 Another senior transport department official said it might take a year or so for the project to be implemented in full swing as the city traffic police have expressed interest in integrating patrol vehicles in this tracking system and ELCOT ( ) is currently working on this. 
 
 A minimum fare of Rs 25 is fixed for the first 1.8km and Rs 12 for every additional kilometre. While waiting charges have been fixed at Rs 3.50 for every five minutes and Rs 42 per hour, fare between 11pm and 5am will be charged at 50% higher rate than the day time fee as per the earlier orders issued by the government.
 
 
