KOLKATA: The   of a 49-year-old woman by an auto driver on Wednesday has yet again turned the spotlight on the three-wheeler’s anarchy on the city roads. The auto operators in the city are a law unto themselves, often plying without valid permit, registration and driving licence.

 From misbehaving with passengers to blocking key thoroughfares, the list of violations runs long but the police and administration plead helplessness.
 
 
  
  
 
 When it comes to violations, there seems to be an unhealthy competition between the drivers on several routes.
 
 While the autos block almost half of the road space in  , the three-wheelers plying between   and Kadapara have divided the route into three forcing the passengers to shell out more money.
 
 The arrogance of the auto drivers is infuriating. “Where do you expect us to keep our vehicles? If we have to pick up passengers from the road, that is where we will park. Police can’t do anything,” said an auto driver, who parked his vehicle in the third lane at at Ultadanga.
 
 It is illegal to ferry more than four passengers but the practice is rampant on the   route. As soon the autos take the service road near Sreebhumi, they not only pick up a passenger on the right side but take two on the left.
 
 At MG Road, the autos have stopped ferrying passengers to Kadapara since long. They either truncate at Narkeldanga or Phoolbagan. “Its a long route and the difference between   and Kadapara is just a couple of rupees. Why should we take so much trouble for such less money,” said an auto driver on MG Road.
 
 These autos have the tacit political backing and the administration have failed to rein them in. In 2104, the government had formed a high level committee, comprising a senior bureaucrat and an IPS officer, which made it mandatory for all autos to have high-security registration plates along with drivers wearing a uniform and carrying all documents including driving licence.
 
 In 2013, the   had directed the state government to install meters in autorickshaws and fix a fare structure within eight weeks. That order was never implemented the fares are still being fixed by unions.
 
  
  
 
