GHAZIABAD: Two persons were arrested on Tuesday for allegedly gang-raping a 32-year-old woman in a flat in Sector 1 of  . The woman alleged that the men had called her to the flat on the pretext of showing her a flat and raped her.

 Abhishek, a  , and his driver, Sameer, were arrested after an FIR was registered against them under IPC section 376D ( ) and 507 (criminal intimidation). The woman first approached the woman’s police station near   on Monday night but was then redirected to Indirapuram.
 
 She alleged that one of the accused claimed himself to be a cop, a fact that is being verified by police. She claimed she was in touch with Abhishek and Sameer for the past two months as she wanted to rent a flat for herself.
 
 “Abhishek called me to show me a flat on April 21. I was near a hotel at that point of time. He picked me up in his car and took me to a flat in Sector 1 of Vasundhara where two to three men were present. I fell unconscious after consuming a soft drink. After I regained consciousness, I felt the men had done something wrong with me when I had passed out. However, I returned to my home in Delhi,” said the woman in her complaint.
 
 She told cops the following day she received a call from Sameer who asked her to come over. “When I declined, Sameer said they had filmed me when I had passed out on April 21 and threatened to post the video on YouTube if I didn’t accede to their demands. They asked me to come near the same hotel from where Abhishek had picked me up on April 21. I reached the place out of fear and they took me to the same flat in Vasundhara where they raped me,” she said.
 
 Police said the men wanted the woman to come over to the flat on April 23 too. 
 
 “However, she didn’t go and approached police. She had known the accused for the past around three months. We are investigating the woman’s claim that one of the men who raped her is a cop. She refused to undergo a medical test despite being asked for it twice,” said   SSP Vaibhav Krishna.
 
 
