JODHPUR: Worried by unabated incidents of clashes between the resident doctors and the relatives of patients in hospitals, both the medical college administration and the city administration have taken steps to deal with the issue in their own ways.

 
 While the medical college administration has focused on the health condition and fitness of its security guards, the city administration has proposed counseling of the resident doctors as well as the medical staff.
 
 The city administration has proposed to install audio equipments along with the   cameras in emergency wards of hospitals, which are the main centers of clashes between the doctors and the patients’ attendants.
 
 In a meeting held at the district collector’s office on Tuesday, it was decided that the security arrangements be revamped so as to avoid untoward situation in hospitals in future.
 
 “Besides counseling and installing important equipments in hospitals’ emergency wards, we have given directions to the police to carry out regular patrolling in the hospitals,” said the district collector Ravi Kumar Surpur.
 
 On the other hand, the   administration, which controls all the three major hospitals of the city, has set up a team of three doctors to check the health of security guards.
 
 Principal of the medical college S S Rathore said that the fitness and the old age of the security guards have been observed to be a big issue while dealing with these clashes.
 
 “The team of the doctors will check the health and fitness of all the security guards in the 3 major hospitals and would submit the report to us. Based on this health report of the guards, we would provide the list of unfit security guards to the concerned security agency with a recommendation to replace them with the fit and younger guars”, said Shekhawat.
 
 There are about 150 security guards in the 3 main hospitals, the MG Hospital, the   and the  , which witness a massive footfall of the patients from the entire division.
 
 During the clashes in the hospitals, the resident doctors have repeatedly alleged that these guards remain unmoved or useless during these clashes and fail to handles the situation. 
 
