NEW DELHI: Pawan Bhandar, which sells cheap chappals along with daily staples in a village near  , may soon be able to stock fancy footwear from German sportswear maker Puma under a new business model being piloted by   Mall. While   and   are currently burning cash to bring more buyers and sellers on board, the Alibaba-backed online marketplace is planning to get ahead of its rivals by selling products in bulk to offline consumers, including small businesses.

 The new model, which according to sources, is at the proof-of-concept stage, will enable small merchants, including kirana stores, to buy stocks directly from large sellers and manufacturers through Paytm Mall. In the future, the company may also build a capability that will enable   to offer credit to merchants for the transactions. So, Pawan Bhandar, which struggles with its miserly working capital, can buy the Puma shoes on credit directly from the manufacturer through Paytm Mall.
 
 In contrast, sellers on Flipkart and Amazon are restricted by the number of the same stock keeping unit (SKU) that can be sold to the same consumer. What could also tilt the scale in Paytm’s favour is that both e-commerce giants do not operate payments banks and depend on third-party lenders to offer credit on certain items to shoppers.
 
  
  
 
 Paytm Mall, which recently raised around Rs 3,000 crore in funding from   and Alibaba, could challenge the joint domination of Amazon and Flipkart in India’s booming e-tail market with the new model, said industry experts. Not only can it give Paytm a strong foothold in online B2B space, it can also benefit Paytm’s banking business. However, Paytm Mall’s COO Amit Sinha said, Paytm Bank currently is not authorised to lend to small businesses.
 
 “If Paytm Mall’s new business model comes through, it will get an upper hand over Flipkart and Amazon, which only do B2C business,” said a senior industry executive aware of the development. “Other than selling to end consumers, Paytm Mall will be able to process bulk orders from small businesses that are not even online. It will multiply the company’s gross merchandise value (GMV).” Paytm Mall said it is planning to more than triple its GMV to $10 billion in current fiscal. By overthrowing Snapdeal from the third spot, it is currently the largest online retailer after Flipkart and Amazon, according to industry estimates.
 
