BHANDARA: Senior   leader   said that faulty EVMs played a major role in bringing down the voters turnout in   Lok Sabha constituency where as much as 70% to 72% voting takes place. Addressing a press conference along with his party’s winning candidate Madhukar Kukde, Patel expressed surprise over so many EVMs running out of order.

 
 Even the Election Commission has admitted that 411 EVMs were not working. However, according to the party workers, nearly 700 EVMs were not working till early part of the day on election day. Even as repolling may have been done in 49 centres, voters who turned back from many other centres did not return to vote again.
 
 “The scorching heat discouraged many from coming to the voting centres for the second time after the EVMs were working. In large pockets, the voters were also not aware that the machines were working again. This brought down the voting percentage drastically. Otherwise our candidate may have won by a margin of one lakh,” said Patel.
 
 He said it’s time that the government reverts to ballot paper. Even advanced countries like US and Germany, which have access to better technology than India, have been using ballot papers. Patel said the matter of faulty EVMS was taken up with the election commission. “Even   called up to express concern about the faulty EVMs,” he said. 
 
 Patel alleged that as a last-ditch effort by the   to salvage its position, orders were issued two days before polling to distribute the compensation amount to paddy farmers for losses due to pest attack. “The amount was pending since last seven months but the government machinery geared up to make payments only two days before elections. District collector Abhimanyu Kale issued orders to banks for remaining open on Saturday and Sunday along with the treasury office to ensure that the amount is distributed within the two days,” he said.
 
 The order was reversed following complaints from NCP workers. “However, the reversal order mentioned that the payment to farmers has been stopped after NCP took an objection. It sounded as if the NCP did not want farmers to get the relief amount. The collector was transferred after that,” Patel said.
 
 Kukde barred from entering counting centre
 
 Madhukar Kukde, the newly elected member of Parliament from Bhandara-Gondia was left miffed after some of the senior police officers barred his entry to the counting centre. When his victory was almost certain, Kukde along with other NCP workers reached the centre to collect the certificate from the election commission. He was, however, stopped by the police and asked to produce the entry pass along with others, which he did not have. As the cops did not recognize him, Kukde was left annoyed and demanded an apology.
 
