JALANDHAR: In the backdrop of bad blood between Damdami   chief Baba Harnam Singh   and Sikh preacher Ranjit Singh Dhadrianwale, Punjab chief minister Captain Amarinder Singh had to warn the Taksal against death threats issued by the Taksal spokesperson. Interacting with both sides, TOI found that they were ready to resolve issues, but there were no attempts to mediate in the last two years. An attempt was made on Dhadrianwale’s life on May 17, 2016, in which his fellow preacher Bhupinder Singh was killed.

 Dhadrianwale called for an end to “dharmik gundagardi” and said the issue would be resolved instantly if the Taksal and its supporters would stop issuing threats. Dhuma also expressed willingness to talk if  , DSGMC or some other “respectable” personalities of the community were to take initiative in the larger interests of the Panth.
 
 Both parties agree on the fact that no efforts have been made to broker peace, with the Sikh clergy and SGPC not taking any steps to resolve the issues.
 
 “No one has approached me till date. I think the contentious issues should be resolved in the larger interest of the Panth. The SGPC, DSGMC and a few respected personalities should hold discussions to resolve the issues. All sides should avoid acrimonious language and comments. I am available for talks to resolve the issues so that controversies don’t weaken the community,” Dhuma said.
 
 Dhadrianwale accused the clergy, SGPC and DSGMC of a partisan approach. “SGPC president   and DSGMC president Manjit Singh GK reacted when the chief minister warned the Taksal against issuing death threats. Still, they did not say a word. If they are neutral, at least they should condemn the threats. But they are clearly partisan,” he said.
 
 “The Akal Takht Jathedar only asks us to cancel our programmes. Had he been neutral, he would have let the functions be organised and if I were wrong, complaints would have been brought to him. But he is completely partisan. He has not said a word on the misuse of the Chhabeel for the murderous attack,” he said.
 
 The conversation revealed that while there were issues with the interpretation of the Gurbani and narration of Sikh history, the Bargari sacrilege and firing at   in October 2016 became a major turning point when Sikh preachers led by Dhadrianwale took centrestage and the Taksal had to face criticism for siding with the SAD even as the Sikh seminary strongly flayed police firing. In the subsequent months personal verbal attacks between the two got acrimonious and things took a bloody turn.
 
 While Dhadrianwale said the Gurbani should be tested against the touchstone of Gurbani, Dhuma holds that some preachers negate the spiritual aspect and their interpretation of Gurbani and history is just mechanical. 
 
 
