MANALI: The   of Manali, where all vehicles from outside   are required to pay fee to enter the town, will be made permanent. Earlier it was said the barrier was temporarily set up for some time. The barrier, which was set up on June 19, 2004, has colleced nearly Rs 35 crore from tourists till day.

 Chief minister   on Sunday laid foundation stone to build a permanent barrier at Aluground, 5km before the town, with all modern facilities. The barrier will now continue to collect green fees from tourist and other vehicles registered outside Himachal. The town is approachable by two highways with two such barriers and both will have a welcome gate, parking, toilet, residential and other facilities for tourists. 
 
 After charging green fees, which is valid for a week, vehicles are not charged parking fee in the town. Two-wheelers are charged Rs 100, light motor vehicles are charged Rs 200 and medium and heavy vehicles Rs 300 and Rs 500 respectively.
 
 In 2017, the barrier had collected Rs 5.91 crore green fees from 2.34 lakh non-Himachali vehicles. In 2016 and 2015, Rs 4.91 crore (1.94 lakh) and Rs 3.95 crore (1.55 lakh) were collected respectively. This year till March 31, the barrier had collected Rs 1.01 crore from 39.8 thousand vehicles. Government had spent the money earned from green tax on various constructions. Later the high court had directed government to spend this money only on environment related causes.
 
 Speaking at the stone-laying ceremony, the CM said, “We have to make many improvements in tourism sector. We shall strengthen the infrastructure and ensure safety and security of our tourists. We are connecting all the villages by roads.” He also laid foundation stones of several projects worth Rs 120 crore in Kullu-Manali in two days. He laid foundation stone of ultra modern multi-purpose bus stand of Manali, which is to be built outside the town. He also met with the Russian ambassador to India, Nikolay  , and his wife who were on their tour to Roerich Memorial Trust, Naggar.
 
 The CM was to flag off electric buses on   highway on Monday but he said currently the buses will not run on the route due to some technical reasons.
 
