MUMBAI: The   Bombay blasts  ,   (61), who has undergone over 40 surgeries in 25 years, hopes the recent arrest of Mohammed Farooq in the case will lead to the arrest of alleged mastermind,   Ibrahim. On the eve of the 25th anniversary of the blasts, Ajmera told TOI, “If the government wills it, they can surely get Dawood back. Since Farooq is considered a close associate of Dawood, I am sure the information he gives cops will help nab Dawood soon.” 

 On Sunday, surrounded by family, the   resident, who suffered near fatal injuries on March 12, 1993, after one of the 12 bombs went off at Bombay Stock Exchange, cut a cake commemorating the 25 years. “I wanted to celebrate the indomitable spirit of everyone and myself who survived despite this tragedy. I wanted to also use this opportunity to wake the government up to issues we have faced and fought without help over the years,” Ajmera said. 
 
 Just 36 years old then, Ajmera said it has been a struggle for his wife and him to bring up their two children, who were seven and six. 
 
 Ajmera lamented how he received no help or   from the government despite spending around Rs 30 lakh on treatment. He recently wrote to the President, Prime Minister, Governor and chief minister, among others, expressing his grievances. On March 9, Ajmera wrote, “I still feel and see every moment of this terror strike with the upper part of my body torn open, my body lying in a pool of blood and innocent dead bodies spread everywhere. With so many years elapsed, I have sadness and anger that it changed my whole life and dreams.”
 
 Still in pain, Ajmera said he has to undergo more surgeries to remove glass splinters from his body. He has sought from the government free medical care, a flat, income tax benefits and free travel through out the country, among other things. Ajmera said every day he hopes someone from the government will knock on his doors to speak to him about compensation he was to receive years back. “Many survivors have dropped out of the fight but I will continue mine until justice is done,” Ajmera said. 
 
 
