JAIPUR: The Income Tax department (Benami Prohibition unit) Jaipur has issued notice to the benami owners of the land property of notorious criminal late Aandpal Singh and his family members. So far, four benami owners have surrendered land measuring 84.58 bigha at Ladnu tehsil in Nagaur district to the state government and the income tax department is now investigating the matter.

 The official registration value the property is worth Rs 22 lakh. However, sources said the market value of the property could be in crores.
 
 “The four pieces of land measuring a total 84 bigha 58 biswa of land at Ladhu in Nagaur was discovered during the police raids conducted at his residence and his relatives in the aftermath of the encounter on June 24 last year. These lands were registered in proxy names, but the real owners were found to be the relatives of the dreaded criminal Anand pal Singh,” said sources in the Income Tax department. Sources said more such properties are under scanner and investigation is on.
 
 The land measuring 27 bigha and 18 biswa located at Khasra No 150, 22 bigha 10 biswa at Khasra No 213 and 5 bigha 08 biswa at village Sanvarad under Ladnu thehsil in Nagaur registered in the name of Om Prakadh of Khanpur tehisil Ladnu. But the beneficial owner has found to be  , wife and legal heir of late   Singh.
 
 Similarly land measuring 08 bigha 03 biswa of Khasra No 466 situated at Goplapura Road, Ladnu (Talab side) was registered in the name of Madan Singh, a resident of   village under Deedwana tehsil. The real owner was Manjeet Singh, brother of late  . 
 
 Another two properties, one land measuring 4 bigha 17 on khasra No 1587 and another piece of land measuring 18 bigha 02 biswa located at Khasra No 1548 Ladnu were registered in the name of a Harijan, Sita Devi of Sanvarad village tehsil Ladnu in Nagaur but the beneficiary owner of both the land was found to be Raj Kanwar, the wife and legal representative of Anandpal Singh, said the source. 
 
 Sources in the Income Tax department said it has come to the notice that the legal owners (binamidars) of the properties of late Anadpal Singh had surrendered these properties to the state government under section 55 of the Rajasthan Tenancy Act, 1955. However, in view of the non-going proceedings under the Prohibition of Benami Property Transaction Act, 1988, the income tax department also have a potential lien over the above properties. As a result, it had requested to the state government that the properties surrendered should not be disposed of or transferred without getting clearance from the Income Tax department, said an officer. 
 
 
