BENGALURU: Things are hotting up as the   assembly elections enter the crucial phase of campaigning. Politicians and their supporters are releasing sting audio and video clips of rival candidates and leaders’ “private moments’’ to expose or belittle them in the run-up to the May 12 polls. There is a spurt in the number of such clips after parties began unveiling their candidate lists.

 Last week, a video of BJP legislator Sanjay Patil from  , which shows him declaring that assembly elections are not about “roads and drinking water but a war between Hindus and Muslims’’, provoked outrage.
 
 In another video clip that created a storm, JD(S) supremo HD Deve Gowda’s daughter-in-law Bhavani Revanna is seen instructing cadres to work against the party candidate and sitting MLA from KR Nagar, Sa Ra Mahesh.
 
 An audio recording in which the CM is heard asking former state government employees’ association president BP Manje Gowda to ensure the defeat of Deve Gowda’s sons at any cost had surfaced just days after the poll announcement. Manje Gowda is now the   nominee against Gowda’s second son, HD Revanna, in Holenarsipura.
 
 Soon after BJP announced the candidature of B Sreeramulu from Molakalmuru in Chitradurga, a video clip where the Ballari MP is seen swearing before sitting MLA S Thippeswamy that he has no plans to contest from Molakalmaru, surfaced. Eventually, Sreeramulu jumped into the fray in Molakalmuru and the video was an embarrassment to him and the party.
 
 To counter it, Sriramulu’s supporters later came out with another video in which Thippeswamy is seen directing his supporters to pelt stones at Sreeramulu when he arrives in Molakalmuru for campaigning. The video went viral after Sreeramulu was attacked by Thippeswamy’s supporters with stones, moments after he launched his campaign last week.
 
 BJP leader KS Eshwarappa also found himself in a soup after a video where he is seen telling his partymen, “Lie if you have to, but don’t admit you don’t know’’, began doing the rounds. Another video of Mysuru-Kodagu MP Pratap Simha, telling party workers that BJP chief   has asked them to create trouble in poll-bound Karnataka, had also stirred a controversy.
 
