SANGRUR: The   police have arrested a jail warden, a pharmacist and two policemen posted at the   for allegedly taking bribe from an inmate to help him feign sickness and be sent to a hospital. The incident came to light after an inmate, who was rushed to the hospital from on grounds of poor health, attended the marriage ceremony of his sister on February 2.

 According to police,   of Lehra in Sangrur, who was lodged in the Malerkotla sub-jail in a drugs case, had paid Rs 8,000 to accused Kangan Khan, the head-warden of the jail. Kangan allowed Garg to be hospitalized after Vinod Kumar, a pharmacist in the jail, requested the head warden to send him to the hospital.
 
 Two cops, head constable Jagtar Singh and constable Jaskirat Singh, escorted Ramneet to the hospital on February 2 where doctors discharged him immediately after check-up as they found him to be in good health. However, both cops allegedly took bribe from the inmate and took him to a banquet hall to enable him attend his sister’s wedding ceremony.
 
 Ramneet is facing trial in a drugs case registered against him in October 2016 when police allegedly recovered 250gm of narcotics powder from him.
 
 Sangrur senior superintendent of police (SSP) Mandeep Singh Sidhu said, “Ramneet had paid Rs 5,000 to both policemen who had escorted him to the hospital. The doctors found Ramneet in good health and so they immediately discharged him from the hospital after the check-up.
 
 The cops were supposed to take the inmate back to the jail but they allowed him to attend his sister’s wedding. For this, Ramneet also paid a bribe to these accused cops whereas in the jail he had paid money to the head warden.
 
 In the entire episode, Hardev Singh, former sarpanch of Alipur village, had helped Ramneet in paying bribe to the cops and jail officials. Hardev was earlier in jail in some case and had shared the cell with Ramneet for few days.”
 
 “The accused pharmacist is on the run while we have nabbed Hardev, both cops and head warden involved in this case. They have been booked under the Prevention of Corruption Act, for criminal conspiracy and other sections of the IPC. Ramneet has been brought on production warrant to carry further probe in the case,” said the SSP.
 
 
