MADURAI: If the outcome of Swachh Survekhan 2018 survey has proven anything for Madurai, it is that the city’s cleanliness record has gone from bad to worse. It all appears to be a numbers game for the city which stood 26th in 2016 when a little over 400 cities in the country vied to be the cleanest. Then came 2017, when the rank went down to 57th, and now when it has made a clean exit from the first list declared by the ministry of housing and urban affairs. Indeed, there were over 4,000 competitiors to contend with this time. 

 One reason being offered for the continuing slump is the city’s unmanageable garbage, and secondly, the dumper bins used by the corporation have only made the situation worse. “There is no solid waste management at all in Madurai. Even the garbage collector, who has two bins coloured green and blue in his tricycle, has no idea about it and collects the unsegregated garbage in both the bins,” said D  , a lecturer at KLN polytechnic. She says that only if people put in their efforts would the city be able to even enter the rank list in the years to come.
 
 A sanitary inspector on condition of anonymity said that dumper bins were placed at regular intervals of half a kilometre on every stretch to avoid people throwing garbage on vacant plots. But the problem still continued as people hurled garbage outside the bins. Even the waste collection vehicles do not clean the area around the bins, nor do the sanitary workers.
 
 He adds that the workers have complained of biomedical waste from hospitals and also waste from hotels and slaughterhouses being dumped in the bins in large quantities only to be pulled out by stray dogs. The dumper bins near the Ulavar sandhai in Anna Nagar, Sathamangalam road and also   store face stray dogs and cattle menace.
 
 Founder of the Centre for   says that dumper bins have clearly backfired for the civic body. “They thought they were beautifying the city, but the bins are looking ugly and dirty with garbage strewn around they have become a never-ending menace. I have seen cotton wool from hospitals being dumped into a bin near Suguna store in Madurai’’, he said.
 
 The corporation was now collecting solid waste management tax from the public in addition to other taxes but there was no sign of any solid waste management in any part of the city, he added. Garbage collectors were paid by the agencies and also the public. This was one of the worst ways of collecting garbage with no proper supervision, he said.
 
 
