At major crossroads in Gomtinagar, fountains dry for years have come to life with water gushing in them, roads are smooth as never before and streetlights are creating a carnival-like atmosphere as evening falls. Every once in while, pruned flowers are adding colour to the surroundings.

 Lucknow is ready for the Investors’ Summit, now just a day away. The state government has spent more than Rs 70 crore on revamping roads, crossings, dividers, parks and landscaping of prominent localities and herita ge areas in the state capital.
 
 
 The venue of the event,  , has undergone a makeover to host thousands of guests from across the world.
 
 Three development agencies, Lucknow Development Authority, Lucknow Municipal Corporation and the public works department, came together to spruce up the city.
 
 A look at what has gone into the preparations by various agencies.
 
 LDA | It was sanctioned Rs 26 crore to give a facelift to roads and crossings at prime locations with special focus on   in Gomtinagar, where three five-star hotels are located. LDA has put up lights and painted dividers and crossings.
 
 LDA VC Prabhu N Singh said, “Apart from   and Lohia Park, LDA is beautifying 20 major parks which visitors are expected to visit.”
 
 Besides, Rs 10 crore has been earmarked for sprucing up memorials and parks built by the BSP government by repainting boundaries and landscaping. LDA is revamping halls and lawns of Indira Gandhi Pratisthan and has made a separate parking. It is also completing the 2,000-capacity convention hall of Jai Prakash Narayan International Centre.
 
 It has already adorned streetlights with threads of small bulbs across Gomtinagar up to Shaheed Path.
 
 Though the decoration is for the summit, it might continue in the future, said LDA.
 
  | The urban development department had given Rs 15 crore to LMC to strengthen roads in 80% of the city’s colonies, including those in Old City, Hazratganj, Gomtinagar, Alambagh,  , Bara Birwa and Indiranagar.
 
 LMC has adding greenery at prominent crossings, repaired dividers and footpaths and painted zebra crossings. It will also have to ensure regular garbage collection from houses.
 
 LED lights have come up on Kanpur Road,   and in VIP areas.
 
 “LMC has to maintain cleanliness and streetlights around heritage monuments,” said municipal commissioner  .
 
 PWD | Around Rs 10 crore has been given to PWD to re-surface Kanpur Road and Hardoi Road around Awadh Rotary since a large part had been dug up for laying of electricity cables and lines for Metro. It has also been asked to put thermoplastic signs on state highways to make them safer and convenient.
 
