CHENNAI:   had to endure a tough Test series in South Africa which India lost 1-2. The wicketkeeper was criticised for the missed opportunities behind the stumps after he came in for an injured Wriddhiman Saha in the second Test. However, the left-hander believes he “kept well and showed character” with both bat and gloves, given the tough conditions.

 
 “I thought I kept well on that difficult wicket in the third Test at Johannesburg where the ball was keeping up and down. I also showed a lot of character by opening the innings (in the second essay) and tried to contribute as much as I could both as a batmen and keeper,” Parthiv told TOI. The wicketkeeper batsman is currently representing his state side Gujarat in the ongoing Vijay Hazare Trophy here.
 
 Parthiv felt the dropped chances were not easy ones and he did receive the team management’s backing during that testing period. “If you watch those attempts, they were not easy ones. It was a 50-50 chance and as long as you are putting in your full effort into it and staying committed - no one says anything. That was the feedback I got from the team,” Parthiv said.
 
 Despite losing the Test series, Parthiv felt the team morale never once dropped. “The result might not have gone in our favour but I thought we played really well. During every session, the talk in the middle and in the dressing-room was about winning. There was a lot of positive intent which kept the boys on top of their game,” Parthiv said.
 
 The upcoming edition of the Indian Premier League will see Parthiv turn out for the  . For the 32-year-old, it gives yet another opportunity to play alongside  . “Virat brings a huge amount of positivity into the team and to the dressing-room. He always leads by example and the team rallies around him,” Parthiv, who played for Mumbai Indians last season, said.
 
 With England being the Indian team’s next big ticket assignment, it will be interesting to see if the think-tank opts for Parthiv as the second wicketkeeper. Parthiv isn’t looking too far ahead and is keen on coming up with handy performances each time an opportunity is provided. “As I have said this before, selection is not in my hands at all. Each time I have played for India, I have looked to give my 100%. I am looking to always improve my game and fitness levels and show consistency in performances,” he said.
 
