MUMBAI: In a major setback to a leading Pune  , D S Kulkarni, the Bombay   on Friday vacated the interim protection from   that was granted last November to him and his wife, Hemanti, in an alleged case of cheating of more than 2,500 investors of Rs 230 crore. Green-signalling an immediate arrest, Justice Sadhana Jadhav, observing how the couple appeared to “not only cheat the investors but also the court”, said: “The investigation agency is at liberty to arrest the applicants fortwith.”

 At the time of going to press, the Pune economic offences wing (EOW), which is investigating the crime, had made no arrests. Kulkarni was not present in court on Friday, though he had been present at the last hearing on February 13. His wife and a chartered accountant were present as special public prosecutor Pravin Chavan and additional public prosecutor Veera Shinde pointed out to the court that the builders intended to sell, for Rs 12 crore, an already mortgaged land to a bank. 
  
  
 The high court on February 14 had extended the interim protection to the Kulkarnis till February 22, which it set as the next date after the Buldhana Urban Multistate Cooperative Credit Society expressed willingness to provide him with Rs 12 crore for rights over his land near Pune. The high court, unwilling to believe his oral assurances any longer, had sought for an appropriate resolution from its board first. On Thursday, Shinde sought an urgent hearing pointing to a probe report.
 
 The prosecutors said that investigation done by EOW officers Nilesh More and Mahadev Kumbhar revealed that the lands were already mortgaged to the Bank of Maharashtra for Rs 10 crore and were reserved for public amenities. The prosecutors submitted in court the mortgage copy, a letter from the bank, and relevant town planning authority records. The court, thus, had advanced the hearing to February 16 when Chavan again pointed to “how a fraud was committed”.
 
 “This is a shocking state of affairs,” said Justice Jadhav. The court said that his “tall claims’’ of his properties “being worth thousands of crores” had fallen flat. Justice Jadhav said that the Kulkarnis were granted interim relief “only to help investors, most of whom are senior citizens, to recover their money”. “However, all this while, the applicants merely indulged in gimmickry and bought time at the cost of the court’s faith,” she said.
 
 The court observed that immigration authorities too may be intimated to prevent the Kulkarnis from leaving the country.
 
 The court had last year protected the Kulkarnis from being arrested after they orally promised to bring in Rs 50 crore as they were “ready and willing” to repay the investors.
 
 
