As evening sets in, the bustle at and around busy Nagpada Junction in Central Mumbai becomes almost unbearable. The cacophonous and chaotic traffic seems to have drown the evening azaan from the area’s many mosques. Pavements and every inch of the open space have been encroached by the hawkers and walking here is a challenge.

 This is about to change soon as the BMC-approved ‘beautification’ plan of Nagpada Junction gets underway on Sunday (April 22) with a ground-breaking ceremony. When the currently cordoned off 610 sq metre space gets transformed into architect Hafeez Contractor-designed grassy step garden with its top deck hoisting the national flag atop a 25 metre pole, it will be making a strong statement. It will restore Nagpada its historic importance lost to the urban nightmare. “Nagpada Junction and the areas around it played a crucial role in the freedom struggle. It is here that the freedom fighters would assemble and rail against the British raising Inquilab Zindabad slogan. It is here that poets and writers of the Progressive Writers’ Movement told the toiling masses to keep dreaming of an equitable, just India-,”says local corporator  . “Restoring the space to the locals is like returning them their respect.”
 
 Seated at his office in Madanpura, the Muslim ghetto in Nagpada’s neighbourhood are some members of Madanpura Welfare Association which helped Shaikh persuade the BMC. The members recall how Nagpada junction has hosted political leaders over the years.
 
 “Whenever political or religious leaders have wanted to reach out to the Muslims in Mumbai they have chosen Nagpada and Madanpura as the venues,” says senior Madanpura resident Mushir Ansari. “A few days before former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi was assassinated at Sriperumbudur (Tamil Nadu) in 1991, he had addressed here,” recalls Ansari.
 
 Senior Urdu journalist   is pained at the way Nagpada and Madanpura have been painted in the city’s popular imagination. He enumerates some of the the institutions that have inhabited Nagpada--Madanpura belt: “Khada Parsi, Police Commissioner’s bungalow before it got moved, Salvation Army, Mother Teresa’s Asha Daan.”
 
 Director of Urdu Markaz Zubair Azmi says he would have liked the ‘Khada Parsi’ brought back to its original place. The iconic 40-feet tall, cast-iron statue of philanthropist Seth Cursetjee Manockjee (1763-1845), popularly known as  , was shifted from Nagpada to the busy junction under Byculla flyover In the 1970s. The locals nowwant to take pride in the soonto-be installed national flag. In fact, the idea of having the national flag at the proposed garden helped silence many leaders of the Shiv Sena and BJP in the BMC who initially opposed the Rs 5 crore beautification plan.
 
 “Flying the national flag throughout the year in a Muslim-dominated area is a statement that nobody should question our patriotism,” says a local.
 
 Several colourful and eccentric characters once inhabited Madanpura-Nagpada area. So there was one Aluaddin   who earned bread by preparing manjha for the kites but was passionate about poetry. “Har shakh pe ulloo baitha hai, anjame gulistan kya hoga (an owl is sitting on every branch, what will happen to the garden), a metaphor to describe the country’s tricky situation, is credited to him. There was Communist leader Abdul Jabbar who would assure the poorly paid handloom and power loom workers of Madanpura that naya sawera (new dawn) was near.   walked its streets before he migrated to Pakistan only to regret. It has produced pehelwans (wrestlers), footballers and basketball players in plenty. The garden will open on August 15 this year.
 
