BHANGAR: Blood was spilled and bombs were hurled since Monday morning in   and  , on the city’s southern and northern fringes, with Bhangar remaining the flashpoint all through the day.

 At least six persons were injured and two went missing till late afternoon. Police had to lathi-charge and fire tear gas shells at both places to bring mobs under control.
 
 Bhangor’s Uttar Gazipur, the stronghold of Trinamool Congress leader Arabul Islam, witnessed violence since the morning. Entajul Mollah, brother of Hafizullah Mollah, who was shot dead, was allegedly dragged out from the booth and beaten up till he lost consciousness. Entajul was an independent candidate backed by the Jami Jibika Bastutantra O Paribesh Rakkha Committee at the gram panchayat seat against Arabul’s son Hakimul. He was hit on the leg with a spade and dumped beside a bush in Kesharait. He started bleeding profusely. Two other committee activists — Rabiul Mollah and Sirajul Mollah — were abducted.
 
 Mollah’s abduction was followed by a retaliation, allegedly by members of the committee. Locals alleged they tried to attack voters while they queued up in front of Uttar Gazipur Majherpara Jamadarpukur Primary School. “We were standing in the queue when they attacked us. One of them hit me on the head with an iron rod, and I fell down,” said Taijul Mollah. Taijul ran for his life as supporters of Arabul came out for a counterattack. The area turned into a battlefield, with at least five injured till police intervened and brought the situation under control. Palash Das, the presiding officer at the booth, fell ill. For the rest of the day, locals blocked the Haroa Road with large tree trunks and charred motorcycles, making the area beyond Machhibhanga out of bound for vehicles.
 
 Later in the day, reports of boothcapturing across Bhangar started pouring in. Jakir Mollah, husband of the committee’s panchayat samiti candidate, Fatima Bibi, was allegedly dragged out of the booth and beaten up. “They forced me to sign on a blank paper and pushed me out of booth number 101,” Jakir said. Alik Chakraborty, a key leader of the Bhangar agitation claimed votes were looted in at least five booths in Uttar Gazipur and Dakshin Gazipur. “We have demanded repoll in five booths (89, 90, 100, 101and 102),” he said. Cops faced stiff resistance when they tried to enter Machhibhanga, a stronghold of the committee.
 
 Closer home, things turned ugly at booths 224 and 237 of Nabin Chandra Abaitanik Bidyalay at Jyangra, when masked men attacked the polling booth and snatched ballot boxes at10.45am. Boxes were broken and ballots taken out. The presiding officer was allegedly beaten up.
 
