 ( ):  , a young resident of this town, had his Thursday planned well in advance with his friends. 

 The group was to rent a car and travel close to 35 km to a single-screen theatre in Rae Bareli, just so they could watch Padmaavat-a film that has genesis in the epic of the same name. What makes it special is that the epic's writer, 15th century Sufi saint Malik Muhammad  , belonged to their town Jais. However, before the men could proceed, they got to know that the two theatres nearest to Jais were not screening the controversial film. 
 
 "Jais residents were talking about Padmaavat because of our own Malik Muhammad Jaisi, who penned the words that led to the film," said Zulfiqar Haider. Romil Jain, another Jaisi fan, was keen to watch the evening show at Milan Cinema in Rae Bareli. "It was only in the morning that I came to know that the nearest theatre was not screening the movie. I will have to go to Lucknow because the film is close to all residents of Jais. Our Sufi saint was born, lived and wrote such an epic on this land," he said.
 
 Composed by Jaisi in Awadhi at the turn of the 16th century, Padmaavat is revered as Jaisi's 'mahakavya' in Hindi literature along with his other works like Akhraavat and Zindaginama. 
 
 "His work in Awadhi dialect and styled in Persian Masnavi form of poetry has the essence of God and the eternal brotherhood of Hindu and  ," said elderly native Mohammad Nizam Khan. 
 
 Most single-screen theatres of Amethi, Rae Bareli and neighbouring districts wore a deserted look. Anand Kumar Yadav, the manager of Milan Cinema, said, "The distributors have not released the film in small towns because of security threat but people have been curious about the film. We will wait for a few days and then decide on bringing it here." 
 
 Similar was the scene outside Manika theatre, whose manager Ajay Mishra said, "On January 17, Karni   had come here and requested us not to screen the film. Though police assured us of security, we have our concerns. Who can stop someone from buying a ticket and resorting to vandalism inside? It is better to not screen it."
 
 Locals in Jais are elated that the name of their town has reached far and wide. "It is only fair that the filmmaker spends a part of the profits on restoring the dilapidated house of Malik Muhammad Jaisi. Only a lakhauri wall and raised platform now remain," said native Haider Ali Abidi.
 
 
