NAGPUR: The inability of the city police to arrest  , charged four times under the Maharashtra Control of Organized Crime Act (MCOCA), has led to a unique situation in the   alias   murder case. All 10 of the other accused have been acquitted but the gangster’s trial is still pending.

 Gawande, arch rival of Ambekar, was allegedly hacked to death at the residence of   at Sant Tukaram Nagar on January 22 last year. The case was registered at Kalamna police station with charges of murder, destruction of evidence, criminal conspiracy etc registered against 11 accused, including Ambekar. Though all accused had been arrested subsequently, Ambekar’s whereabouts have remained a mystery so far.
 
 It is reliably learnt that Ambekar sneaked away from the city even before his name had been added as an accused. Sources claim Ambekar is now holed up somewhere in Ujjain, Madhya Pradesh. Though there had been much speculation about Ambekar’s whereabouts, the city police efforts to bring him to book have been repeatedly questioned. In several press conferences over the past one year, city police chief K Venkatesham, Jt CP Shivaji Bodkhe and other senior officers have offered only evasive replies when asked about their strategy to net Ambekar, since the trial had already begun in the middle of 2017.
 
 The court has also observed in its final judgement issued on December 11 last year that the “accused no. 9 Santosh Ambekar remained absconding since beginning continuously. Several times non-bailable warrants have been issued. Even proclamation under section 82 of the code of Criminal Procedure was issued but police could not trace him out”.
 
 In the verdict pronounced by district and additional sessions judge BP Kshirsagar, several glaring loopholes in the police investigation of the case have been pointed out, which included no specific reference of the place from where the blood stained clothes and weapons were concealed after the murder. The case, devoid of any eye witnesses, depended entirely on circumstantial evidence to prove the conspiracy theory behind Gawande’s murder.
 
 The prosecution evidence mostly consisted of call detail records (CDRs) of the accused, which the court held did not prove anything. The court, underlining the failure of the police machinery, stated while acquitting the 10 accused that there was no substantive evidence to support the prosecution argument. The court has also mentioned that there was not even corroborative evidence to prove the charges. 
 
 It had also come to fore during the trial that samples of blood and other exhibits were sent after considerable delay to the chemical analysis laboratory. Doubts were raised about the tampering of samples due to the delay. Gawande’s wife Jayashree and daughter Bhoomi too had turned hostile during the trial, and did not support the ‘last seen theory’ of the case, where it was claimed that Gawande had been with Kumbhare before he was found dead.
 
 The court has now asked Kalamna police station to file a separate charge sheet against Ambekar once he is traced.
 
 
