

 * Speaking at the event Mewani says, "Modiji I am your fellow Gujarati, now also an MLA, we will get all the files of corruption."
 
 * You have to tell us as to why   founder Chandrashekhar aka 'Ravan' has not been released from jail.
 
 * The way corruption, poverty, unemployment and the real issues are being swept under the carpet and ghar wapasi, love jihad and cows are being given space, we stand against that.
 
 
  
  
 
 The Parliament Street has been fortified and water cannon vehicles have been deployed by the   to thwart the march by Dalit leader and Gujarat MLA Jignesh Mevani.
 
 Additional forces from other states have also been deployed at the site.
 
 Defying all Delhi Police orders, the organisers are making all arrangements for the rally.
 
  
  
 
 Delhi Police has denied permission to the 'Yuva Hunkaar Rally' that was supposed to be attended by Vadgam MLA Jignesh Mevani, Assamese peasant leader  , and other youth leaders. Mevani has, however, threatened to march to the PMO with copies of the Constitution and the Manusmriti.
 
 Police has said that Mevani and others would be stopped from reaching Parliament Street as the area is already under tight security due to Republic Day.
 
 Police was expecting over 10,000 people to gather around Parliament Street, which would have choked most of Lutyens' Delhi during the rush hour. 
 
 Delhi Police spokesperson Dependra Pathak said force would be deployed to stop protesters from entering the high-security zones. Some metro stations may be shut too. Police said legal action would be taken against Mevani and others if they go ahead with the rally.
 
 Mevani said in a tweet on Monday evening that rumours were being spread against him and about the rally being cancelled to mislead the people supposed to attend it. He said efforts were being made to tarnish his image before his supporters.
 
 The rally seeks to raise the demand for the release of Dalit outfit Bhim Army's founder Chandrashekhar Azad and emphasise on issues like educational rights, employment, livelihood and gender justice.
 
 A large section of students from universities and colleges in Delhi, women's groups, teachers' associations and activists associated with Mevani from across the country are expected to attend the rally.
 
 Azad, 30, was arrested in June last year from Himachal Pradesh as he was the main accused in the Thakur-Dalit clash in  's Saharanpur district.
 
 Delhi: Posters seen in Parliament Street area ahead of Jignesh Mevani's 'Yuva Hunkar Rally'. 
  
 Several companies of paramilitary forces will be deployed ahead of Gujarat MLA Jignesh Mevani's 'Yuva Hunkar rally' in New Delhi.
 
  
  
 Jignesh Mevani's supporters stopped in Ambedkar Park in Rani Garden area of East Delhi: TV reports
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
