THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: While the   are trying to raise the bar of policing through community initiatives and scientific investigation of crimes, isolated actions unbecoming of their stature by some officers, are gaining greater attention among the public, spoiling the goodwill earned by the force.

 In the past one week, several incidents of   with the public have gone viral on social media, resulting in the highhandedness being questioned by the opposition in the assembly. “All the goodwill created is lost in a single stroke when one officer behaves in an uncivilized manner. This is a problem at the level of the individual, and should be dealt sternly by higher officials in the department and the government,” said former state police chief Jacob Punnoose.
 
 
 He feels such officers have a feeling that they must solve all the problems single-handedly and wears the attitude of a super-cop on their sleeves.
 Serving officials however said the routine disciplinary action of sending erring officers to armed police battalion for behavioural training is unlikely to serve any purpose than pacifying public anger.
 
 Psychologists categorise the behaviour of individuals, particularly the   into three categories, those who show controlled aggression, which is understandable because they know what they are doing; those who do not have the power to control their aggression and those who have problems like mood disorders that end up in violence. “The training should help them understand the difference between these three aspects. The super cop attitude is a kind of personality disorder that should be addressed during induction into the force rather than something to be penalized when an incident occurs,” said Arun B Nair, assistant professor of psychiatry at Medical College, Thiruvananthapuram. It is with this intention that the police decided to revamp its training module for newly recruited officers.
 
 The new training module facilitates grouping participants from different backgrounds to form syndicates, thereby enabling them to learn from each other. The trainees are also put through immersion training, where they visit and spend extended time at social justice institutions and tribal hamlets. The immersion programmes are expected to act as a bridge between classroom learning and appreciation of real world conditions, sensitizing them to social issues and providing them an opportunity for self-reflection about their personal goals as well as their responsibilities as public servants.
 
 A   program to build essential skills for courteous   defusing conflict situations, victim empathy etc has also been introduced as part of the training.
 
 Even though officers, mostly up to the rank of sub-inspectors, often cite stress emanating from extreme work pressure and health-related issues affecting their profession and family life, the police association has a different view.
 
 “All our major demands have been met. The long-pending demand of eighthour-duty has already been implemented in 72 stations out of the 472 and is being implemented in other stations too. The working atmosphere is by and large fair,” said T S Baiju, president of Kerala Police Association. But his claim sounds more pro-government than the reality on ground. In January, a grade sub-inspector had committed suicide in Ernakulam citing harassment from his seniors and in another incident, another officer in the same grade, suffering health issues, committed suicide in the capital.
 
 Top brass of the police said that despite all the new-age, stress-busting training modules and tall claims of providing a stable working atmosphere, the one-odd incidents that seem to appear now and then, is enough to severely dent the image of police, as the force being an enforcement agency with immense powers and a high degree of public interaction.
 
