MANALI: With seizing 20 kg   from the possession of a person in remote   village, police have got first success in its operation to catch big smugglers of the district. This is the largest contraband seizure of the year.

 Kullu superintendent of police Shalini   said they were getting secret inputs of a large charas trade in Neuli area of Kullu, and were keeping a close watch on it.
 
 “A police team on Friday raided a shop at   in Sainj valley of Kullu and seized 20kg charas. It was concealed between other goods in the shop. The owner has been arrested. Till now we have seized 50kg charas,” she said.
 
 The accused has been identified as Chunni Lal, a resident of Majahan village in Kullu. Shalini added that the cops had to walk for nearly four hours from the road to reach the place.
 
 “The accused was produced before a court on Saturday where he has been sent in a five-day police remand. We shall now investigate that what was the source of this consignment and where it was to be delivered,” Agnihotri said.
 
 With limited information, conducting timely raid and seizing large quantity of charas was difficult, however the cops remained successful in the task. Therefore, head constable Vijay Singh, HHC Joginder Kumar and constable   on Saturday were awarded with DGP Disc.
 
 Prices of charas skyrocket in winter season. Cannabis on higher areas is cultivated in April and May and extraction of resin from leaves start in August end or early September. Growers and smugglers want to finish the old stock before new stock hits the market.
 
 This is the peak time when smugglers deliver consignment with help of locals and Nepalese. While there are hundreds of peddlers, who sell charas in small quantity to locals and tourists inside Kullu, some choose big smugglers who transport consignment to other states to get better prices.
 
 The SP said police are doing everything possible to break big networks of smugglers and growers.
 
 “We gather secret information and seek help from local residents. The main focus of police in Kullu remains on charas. We are educating people and organising awareness campaigns to eradicate this menace from the district. Frequent checks are being conducted in most affected areas,” she said.
 
