In what seems to be a first-of-its-kind initiative to give exposure to young tennis talents, the police department and the district administration have joined hands to come up with ‘Trichy Open Tennis Tournament’, which was kick-started in the city on Thursday.

 More than 400 school students - under 16 years of age - from the state and a few teams from other south Indian states are participating in the tournament to be held till May 20.
 
 The police department stated that there was a lack of exposure for young tennis players in the city and they were contemplating for some time about coming up with a tournament, which would help promote the sport in a tier-II city like Trichy. City police commissioner A Amalraj said that though tennis courts at Anna Stadium were opened a few years ago, not enough tournaments were held there and that’s why the department held a meeting and came up with the concept of ‘Trichy Open Tennis Tournament’. "Young tennis players in the city didn’t really have a platform to compete with the best athletes of their age. We wanted to make a tournament which would give the right exposure for such youngsters," Amalraj told TOI.
 
 The police department later teamed up with the district administration and decided to conduct the tournament in the summer to draw more participants. The organisers have planned to make this an annual event and draw more participants in the coming years. Since the turnout for the tournament was more than expected, it might even be extended for one or two more days than the original schedule.
 
 Deputy commissioner of police A Myilvaganan said that the aim was to make it one of the most favourite tournament for the young tennis players in the state. "We were very particular on naming this ‘Trichy Open Tennis Tournament’ because it gives such a professional outlook," he said. 
 
 Collector K Rajamani, while speaking at the inauguration ceremony, said that the tournament is a boon for young athletes as they would get to spend the summer holidays in a more productive way.
 
 
