CHANDIGARH: Describing the suspension of an associate professor by the   ( ), Rohtak, over a   post as “disturbing example of intolerance,” the Punjab and Haryana high court on Thursday imposed a stay on his suspension.

 
  
  
 
 “This case is a disturbing example of intolerance of the authorities in the university to smother debate on Facebook between the petitioner and persons in the social group. The issue is of freedom of speech which the university should represent and not to stifle bona fide comment on matters concerning the university,” observed Justice Rajiv Narain Raina while hearing a petition by Ashwani Kumar Dhingra, an associate professor in MDU’s mechanical engineering department.
 
 
 
 
 In his interim order, Justice Raina observed that the court “would also consider whether exemplary costs like damages and litigation expenses should not be saddled on the university in favour of the petitioner for violating his rights guaranteed under Article 19 (1) of the  , which are verily the foundations of democracy that is freedom of speech and expression as a citizen.”
 
 The judge also restrained the MDU authorities from issuing a charge sheet against the professor without the court’s permission.
 
 In February, Dhingra had posted a comment on his personal Facebook wall about the appointment of a financial officer in the university.
 
 “The Haryana government has deputed a financial officer at MDU Rohtak. But people here at MDU are protesting his appointment. MDU wants grants from the state government then why not a financial officer? Now, everyone can understand the fear… if government’s financial officer is appointed, a lot could be exposed,” Dhingra had written in his post.
 
 He had also responded to several comments he had received to his Facebook post.
 
 On February 27, the MDU administration asked him for an explanation about his social media post. According to the petitioner, without providing him some documents to file an appropriate response, the executive council of the university, in its meeting on March 30, decided to suspend him for his Facebook posts. He was accused of creating an environment of mistrust and misunderstanding about the university before public.
 
 Challenging his suspension orders, Dhingra argued that his Facebook account is his personal space where he highlighted his responsible views on the matter of the appointment of a financial officer in the university by the state government.
 
 “It is a matter of surprise as to how the views of the petitioner have defamed the image of university and created an environment of mistrust and misunderstanding about the university in the eyes of public. On the Facebook post, some other teachers/employees of the university had also written their views in support of his views and against his views, but the petitioner has been singled out clearly showing the bias,”  , argued Dhingra’s counsel.
 
 Goyal sought directions to set-aside Dhingra’s suspension orders and sought an independent probe into the entire controversy. The case will now come up for hearing on May 24.
 
 
