Sreemoyee.Chatterjee Bengaluru: A city hospital is among 15 health facilities from across the country that will implement space safety and quality measures in their emergency and intensive care departments to eliminate hospital-induced errors and emergency mortality rates. The expanded pilot project is being taken up after the measures were adopted by a 200-bed Chennai hospital. Three weeks after implementing the 20 space safety and quality steps in its emergency and intensive healthcare units, the hospital recorded an overall improvement in patient safety from 0.05% to 1.5% and a striking drop in emergency department mortality rate by 1.2%. Implementation of measures used in the space industry, a first in global history, is part of Health Quest, a platform driven by medical experts from Society of Emergency Medicine India (SEMI), Indian Society of Critical Care Medicine (ISCCM), Association of Healthcare Providers India (AHPI) and scientists from Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO). In Bengaluru, Narayana Hrudayalaya will adopt the measures as part of the pilot.  Zero-error tech for quality healthcare “We know that ISRO works with zero-error technology and wanted to emulate the same in our emergency department to provide quality care to our patients. The measures can become a single line of approach for all hospital emergencies across the country,” said Dr PS Srinath Kumar, senior consultant and head of the emergency department at Narayana Hrudayalaya. The 20 measures have been chosen from the 80 safety practices followed by the space industry. “Although such cases are under reported in India, patients admitted to emergency and intensive care units (ICUs) are at a 10%-15% risk of hospital-induced errors, which cause severe injuries and even deaths. The space industry, however, works on the principle of zero error, and on discussing this issue with space scientist K Kasturirangan, we came up with the idea of implementing space safety measures in hospitals,” said Dr Alexander Thomas, president, AHPI. Healthcare experts say adopting the technology is the need of the hour, since emergency departments and ICUs face several problems like overcrowding, prolonged waiting time, lack of standardized assessment parameters and uniform clinical and process parameters and paucity of skilled manpower. The measures have been broadly classified into design, performance and conformance parameters. “While the design parameters define specific space/equipment requirements and skill metrics, performance deals with reducing waiting time, appropriate triaging, patient assessment in medical, surgical, paediatric trauma and medical emergencies, clinical protocols for common emergency, effective communication checklist and appropriate disposition. Conformance parameters measure quality metrics like delays in assessment and mortality rate,” explained Dr Saravana Kumar, secretary, SEMI. “ISRO has set very high standards in space technology by incorporating several quality systems. We hope this partnership will reduce errors in ICU settings through adoption of quality control practices followed by the space industry, which could potentially result in improved processes and outcomes,” said Dr Kapil Zirpe from ISCCM.