NAGPUR: The   has once again announced the disaffiliation of 98 colleges, out of its total tally of 582. In the past, NU had only managed to disaffiliate colleges which had already shut down, but failed to act against those controlled by local politicians and education barons, and operating without teachers and infrastructure.

 “After initial scrutiny and verification, we’ve found 98 colleges who have failed to remove several deficiencies, including teachers and infrastructure. We’ve managed to complete scrutiny of 290 colleges till date,” pro-VC   said.
 
 He clarified that NU hadn’t checked or taken any action against 63 BEd and BPEd colleges, which were also operating with several deficiencies. “Among all the colleges, NU had granted permanent affiliation to 131 for two years. About 26 BEd and   were also part of this. We’ve now removed permanent tag of these education colleges, and asked them to apply for affiliation as per new format.”
 
 Yeole added that many colleges had failed to seek affiliation for three to four years, despite various notices from NU.
 
 NU officials said that a majority of those in the current list were also in the infamous list of “250 banned colleges” in 2013-14, which led to a major controversy and forced then VC Vilas Sapkal to resign. They added that besides not appointing teachers as per university code, the colleges have also failed to admit students or conduct examinations, or to complete online registration with director of higher education in the state.
 
 The demand to disaffiliate these colleges was being made from last three to four years, and various statutory bodies had also passed a resolution in this regard. However, till date, the NU administration has avoided any action under pressure from its statutory members.
 
 In other developments, VC SP Kane disclosed that they had constituted a panel under pro-VC to probe into the dispatch of wrong question paper of   third year from  . The blunder led to inordinate delay of one-and-a-half hours to restart the paper. “The panel would give its report, after which it would be decided whether to reconduct the exam,” the VC said. 
 
