NAGPUR:   is fast turning out to be the fastest mode of disposal of cases. On Friday, one such case was settled between the parties for Rs90 lakh.

 The case pertains to Motor Accident Claims Tribunal ( ) between a woman and the general   company over getting claim amount for the accident, which led to death of her husband on July 25, 2015.
 
 Kunal Jadhav, coordinator of   here, said appellant Swathi Gamalapati’s husband Shivprasad was travelling on Wardha Road on his two-wheeler. Near Bramhani village, the 33-year-old was hit by a truck from behind which led to his death on the spot.
 
 The woman then knocked the MACT’s doors for compensation of over Rs1 crore from the IFFCO-TOKIYO General Insurance Company Limited, as it had insured the killer truck. She contended that Shivprasad used to work with a renowned pharmaceutical company ( ) and was earning a decent salary of over Rs80,000 per month. Truck owner Kapil Singh Patel and one more person were made respondents in the case, along with IFFCO-TOKIYO.
 
 The woman’s claim was pending with MACT member   for over two years before he referred it to mediation on Tuesday. Judge mediator SS Khandagale heard both the sides and resolved the dispute due to which the applicant and her family received timely relief.
 
 Principal district and sessions judge in Nagpur, Vilas Dongre, delivered the cheque for Rs90 lakh to the woman and her son towards final settlement. Being a member of District Mediation Monitoring Committee, he also supervised the entire process.
 
 “The case which as pending since last two years was settled within just three days through mediation, which is the fastest way to resolve the disputes amicably. We appealed to the litigants to take mediation help for resolving their disputes,” Jadhav told TOI.
 
 In November, the Nagpur bench of Bombay High Court helped an elderly couple settle their case through mediation, where the husband agreed to pay Rs5.30 lakh to wife towards full and final settlement.
 
 Jadhav added that Nagpur was designated as a pilot project for mediation activities and the mediation centre here witnessed a number of cases amicably settled owing to the continuous and untiring efforts of the referral judges and trained mediators.
 
 
