Nagpur: Even 24 hours after two deaths at Haldiram Food’s Krazy Castle Aqua Park on Ambazari Road on Sunday, the cops seem to be in no hurry to take any strict action against the management or employees. The only swift action had been collector Ashwin Mudgal immediately shutting down the water park till further notice. After the incident, the pool management had not informed the police, and also allowed patrons to continue using the wave pool where several nearly drowned even as two died. In a twist, police also returned empty-handed from the water park on Monday, unable to retrieve any CCTV footage. Senior PI Gnyaneshwar Patil, sounding helpless and seemingly under pressure, said the management now claims that the CCTVs were not functioning for the last few months. On Monday, the post mortem of the victims, Akshay Bind and Sagar Sahashrabudhe, were conducted at Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) mortuary. Police said the provisional post mortem reports of the two confirmed deaths due to drowning. Sahashrabudhe’s friend Snehal Motghare is still recuperating at GMCH. Retired DGP PKB Chakraborty said media reports indicated the management had not put up caution boards indicating the depth of the water, which added to ‘culpability’. “The offenders attract section 304 of Indian Penal Code (IPC). In the post incident reaction, the management’s failure to inform police, and allow the public to use the pool later, are relevant grounds to prove their culpability,” said the former city police chief. The latest revelation of the unavailability of CCTV footage of the premises is, however, in complete contrast with the statement of a senior management official, as published in the TOI May 21 edition. The official had said to TOI that he will go through CCTV footage before initiating an internal inquiry and implementing corrective measures. Zonal DCP Krishnakant Upadhyay said the police would not rush into any action until a thorough probe is completed. He did not set any time frame to reach a conclusion regarding fixing responsibility for the accident.