ZIRAKPUR: A walk or a drive from Tricity Homes to   housing society in  , Zirakpur, poses threat to one’s life after sunset as the narrow road only has streetlight poles, but no electricity connection to them.

 After Tricity Homes, followed by quite a few farms on one side and a sabzi mandi on the other, there comes   housing society on the left and Trishla Little India, a semi-operative shopping complex, on the right side of the road. The stretch then runs with onion and wheat fields on either sides and reaches Vrindavan Gardens. The kids from the shanties nearby are often seen playing on this narrow road which struggles to even make space for two cars when they pass each other.
 
 The residents in the area say they often have to speed up their vehicles to avoid sliding to a side.
 
 Natasha, an engineering student living in a nearby housing society, said, “It is quite common that the side mirrors often brush past when two cars pass each other on this narrow road. There have been minor accidents too.” The people residing in the housing societies nearby are of the view that to widen the road, the Zirakpur municipal council (MC) needs to acquire land from the person owning the fields on both sides.
 
 “The MC has to pay him, to widen this narrow stretch that runs till Bollywood Heights housing society,” said Vinod Raina, a resident of Vrindavan Gardens housing society. “The road was dark back then and it is still so,” he rued. “We have approached the MC a number of times but to no avail.”
 
 Natasha too expressed concern about going out for a walk in the evening. “Not only does it seem unsafe for women, it is actually dangerous for anyone in any age group,” she said.
 
 Things have not improved due to absence of any strong RWA in the area. Residents of a few nearby housing societies have also been involved in disputes with their builders, thus leading to neglect of other issues. The executive officer at Zirakpur municipal corporation,  , said, “The electricity poles will soon be fitted with advanced LED lights. The procedure is in progress.” When asked about the narrow road, he said, “We will look into the possibilities and decide upon it. Land, there, is quite costly and we are working on it,” and he said that the executive engineer who was assigned these works has been replaced by a new person and hence the delay. 
 
 
