CHENNAI: Superstar   has appealed to Chennai Super Kings players and fans to wear black badges during the upcoming   matches to register their protest against the Centre which has failed to form the  . Rajinikanth, who is making preparations for the launch of his party, shared the stage with actor-turned-politician   in a four-hour silent protest called by the Nasser-led Nadigar Sangam on Sunday.

 Turning out in large numbers, the Tamil film fraternity also demanded the shutdown of the Sterlite Copper plant in Tuticorin. Fans arrived in droves to catch a glimpse of the stars, disrupting traffic for at least two hours near the protest venue at Valluvar Kottam.
 
 During an interaction with the press, Rajini said the Centre would earn the wrath of Tamil Nadu if the   Management Board was not constituted. He also took a dig at the appointment of M K Surappa, who is from Karnataka, as the Anna University vice chancellor. “It should have been avoided at this juncture. Politics must not enter into educational institutions,” he said. 
 
 Speaking on the Sterlite issue, Rajini asserted that industries that have a negative impact on the environment must not be sanctioned even if they create jobs and yield big profits. “Owners of destructive industries may make money, but they will not live in peace. Setting up of industries must only be allowed within the limits prescribed by the law.”
 
 Rajini clarified that he was not opposed to Kamal. “I am only opposed to poverty, unemployment, corruption and the sorry state of Sri Lankan Tamil refugees who are not being granted citizenship,” he said. However, he cut short the interaction with the media, saying, “We can go on talking. The more you talk, the more opponents you earn. This has been the norm here so far. Let there be no more of this.”
 
 During his brief address at the end of the silent protest, Nasser said, “The   bows to all the protesters fighting for Cauvery.”
 
 A four-point resolution signed by 2,500 members of the film fraternity is to be presented to the TN governor soon. Among the resolutions was a demand that the state and central governments must provide compensation to victims of environmental pollution caused by Sterlite industries in Tuticorin.
 
 Film actors, musicians, producers, directors and technicians including Ilaiyaraaja, Vijay, Dhanush, Sathyaraj, Vijay Sethupathi, Vishal, Surya, Vikram, Karthi, Sivakumar, Vairamuthu, Kalaipuli S Thanu, A L Alagappan, Shankar, S P Muthuraman, K S Ravikumar, P C Sreeram, Vivek, Jayam Ravi, R Parthiepan, N Lingusamy, Siva Karthikeyan, Varalakshmi Sarathkumar, Dhansika, Sripriya, Kasthuri, Sachu, Rohini and C R Saraswathi took part in the protest.
 
 
