 Governor C.V. Rao and Chief Minister   and on Sunday expressed shock and grief over the demise of veteran film actress  .

 Describing her as " 's Woman Superstar", Rao said: "Sridevi was one of the most talented and versatile actresses who dominated the silver screen for nearly three decades. She scripted some of the most memorable performances through her numerous films."
 
  
 
  Conveying his heartfelt condolences to the bereaved family, Rao said her demise "is an irreparable loss for the world of Indian cinema" and paid his last respects to her memory.
 
  Fadnavis said he was shocked to learn of the sudden and sad demise of "a legendary and veteran actress Sridevi".
 
  "We lost a brilliant actress who ruled Indian cinema for decades together with her exemplary acting skill," Fadnavis said.
 
  The actress, 54, breathed her last on Saturday night at around 11 p.m. She was was in Dubai to attend the marriage function of actress Sonam Kapoor's cousin  , along with husband Boney Kapoor and younger daughter Khushi. 
 
  Veteran Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader and former actor Shatrughan Sinha said the "entire film fraternity and Indian movie lovers across the country and the world are left in a state of shock and sadness due to the sudden and untimely demise of Sridevi".
 
  "The show business will go on, but will not be the same without the nation's favourite Sridevi. The nation will remember you as one of its most talented actors and stars," Sinha said in a tribute.
 
  Yuva Sena President   said: "Still can't believe the news about Srideviji is true. Have no words. Our condolences to the family."
 
  Maharashtra Congress President   tweeted: "Sad to know about the untimely demise of veteran actress Sridevi. May her soul rest in peace."
 
  
  
  Describing her as an "incredibly talented actress", Mumbai Congress President Sanjay Nirupam said we have lost "one of the greatest actresses of our time who excelled in the diverse roles she did".
 
  Leader of Opposition in Maharashtra Council and Nationalist Congress Party leader Dhananjay Munde said: "Sridevi ruled the hearts and minds of her admirers with her acting skills, beauty, and dancing skills."
 
  Maharashtra Navnirman Sena President   said: "The untimely death of Indians legendary actor Sridevi has left her fans in a state of 'Sadma' (shock)."
 
  
  
 
 
 
