NAVI MUMBAI: An NGO has raised fresh concerns with chief minister   over   at   in Navi Mumbai as a quarry operator has obtained environment clearance for blasting at Borivli village in MIDC area of Mahape. 

 The Thane District Level Environment Impact Assessment Authority had recently given clearance to the company to operate the quarry with conditions, including prevent dust pollution and develop a green belt. The private operator is now set to start quarrying in an area where a small hull has nearly disappeared due to continuous blasting, said  , director of the  . In his letter to the CM, Pawar said, “We are sure that you and your cabinet colleagues have observed the irreparable damage done to Parsik Hills...The reckless blasting of the hills is not only endangering the ecological balance, but is making people fall sick as the dust particles from the quarries is 100 times the permissible levels.”
 
 Pawar, in his letter, said following a PIL, the National Green Tribunal had on November 14, 2017, ruled that no quarrying should take place on Parsik Hills without environment clearance. Subsequently, the Thane District Level Environment Impact Assessment Authority met on February 2, 2018, and discussed the situation of 74 quarry sites at Kukshet, Shivawane, Pawane, Bonsari, Turbhe and Borivli—all along the Parsik Hill range. When the deputy conservator of forest had raised objection to violation of quarrying limits in Cidco area where 264.1 hectares have been mined against the permissible area of 138.07 hectares, the authority ordered a detailed survey of these areas jointly by the forest department and Cidco. It is in this context, Pawar said, permission granted to one operator—who incidentally is not a project-affected person—has to be viewed. This firm has obtained renewal of quarry licence from MIDC up to 2027 for two hectares. 
 
 The permission came with conditions that included installation of open air quality monitor, transportation by covered trucks, occupational health surveillance programme and conducting lung functional tests of workers. But Pawar claims such conditions usually remain only on paper. 
 
  Meanwhile, Public Relations Council of India, a communication professionals body, has launched a drive called #HillGayaKalGaya (No Hills, No Tomorrow) to mobilize support for protecting the environment. “This is in continuation of our earlier campaign #IamParsikHill-IamDying,” said its governing council chairman B N Kumar.
 
 
