TRICHY: Situated in the heart of the city and serving as a junction for commuters heading to various party of the city, MGR roundabout has of late been seeing regular traffic snarls despite its 11-metre diameter. This is because the rotary intersection often fails to control the speed of vehicles though it claims to be a self-regulatory utility. 
 
 With bottlenecks persisting regardless of the presence of traffic policemen, residents had demanded that the diameter of the roundabout be reduced, which was however rejected by the civic body. The snarls are primarily blamed on impatient commuters waiting to cross the intersection where Bharathidasan salai, Lawson’s road and   link merge. 
  
 Earlier in November 2016, Trichy city traffic police mooted a plan to install nano traffic signal at the roundabout, which also has a statue of former chief minister   within the circle. However, the nano signal, which would have displayed all the three signal colours — red, amber and green — on LED screen with directions, was grounded owing to difficulties in implementing it. The problem mainly was the absence of space to ensure free left movement for vehicles approaching from the district court end. 
  
 Claiming that the roundabout, due to its vast size, affected the free flow of vehicles, demands were made in the district road safety council to cut its size. “We need to install traffic signal for sure in the MGR roundabout to regulate the vehicular movement and for this decreasing the diameter of the roundabout is essential. Its present size fails to serve the self-regulatory purpose of the roundabout,” M Sekaran, member, road safety council, said. 
  
 One of the roads leading from Anna Nagar link road to MGR roundabout has been remaining closed for years now, lament motorists citing the huge size of the roundabout. “To reach Lawson’s road from Anna Nagar link road, one has to take a detour via district court complex. Though there is a road it is closed and add to this the roundabout’s size the causes of traffic congestion are clear,” S  , resident of   salai said. 
  
 However, Trichy Corporation claims that the present size of the MGR roundabout is appropriate and necessary to reduce the speed of vehicles. “it is not because of the size, but traffic congestion is happening due to the absence of patience among motorist to wait for their turn to move. The higher the diameter of the roundabout, the lower the risk of accidents,” a senior official with Trichy corporation said. 
  
  
