SHANGHAI: Missed paying dues on your   membership? There’s a bank for that — and it’s fully automated. A state-owned Chinese bank has opened an automated branch equipped with facial-scanning software, a virtual reality room, a hologram machine, talking robots and touchscreens for paying utility bills, among other functions.

 The branch opened last week in central Shanghai's   district and is being hyped as China’s first “unmanned bank.”
 
 Beijing-based China   says the hightech branch is meant to make banking more convenient, personalised, and efficient. It also reflects growing competition from cashless payment systems that are giving the banks a run for their money.
 
 A robot greets customers at the entrance and answers questions using voice recognition software. Clients can swipe their national identification cards to enter the bank — or scan their faces using the bank’s facial recognition device. Machines inside allow visitors to buy gold, change currency, or scout real estate investments using virtual reality googles.
 
 The bank isn’t totally unstaffed. Guards still stand sentry, and a room equipped with teleconference software allows VIP clients to request help from human employees based elsewhere.
 
 News of the newfangled bank spread rapidly online, drawing throngs of curious observers. Tian Ting, a finance worker, said she was impressed after touring the branch. “These days, people are less and less likely to be inclined to want other people to come and bother them,” Tian said.
 
 The trend toward automation is not new. Retailers in China and elsewhere have been tinkering with automated supermarkets and convenience stores, and   last year piloted three automated banks in the US, calling them “advanced centers.” Still, the   branch takes technology a step further, with You and others citing its face-scanning abilities as a breakthrough.
 
 “Through the use of facial recognition, even without a human in the loop, the system can ensure uniqueness of the individual at the time of enrollment and can verify each time the person conducts a transaction,” said Joseph Atick, a biometrics expert and chairman of Identity International. AP
 
