Pimpri Chinchwad: The relatives of Devi Pawar (35) claimed her body for the last rites on Wednesday afternoon, almost 21 hours after she was brought to the district hospital following her lethal jump from the terrace of a four-storied unauthorized building in Pimple Gurav on Tuesday. District surgeon R K Shelke, said, “The relatives brought the injured woman to the hospital at 1.35pm on Tuesday for treatment. They took her to a private hospital for treatment on their own when doctors advised them to take her to Sassoon General Hospital. Later, her body was brought to the district hospital’s dead house for post-mortem.” Pawar had jumped from the terrace of the building in the Devkar Park area of Pimple Gurav around 12.30pm on Tuesday when the demolition squad of Pimpri Chinchwad Municipal Corporation had gone there on a demolition drive. Police were removing the people inside the building before the drive could start when suddenly she jumped off the terrace. Shelke said, “The relatives of the woman initially gave consent for conducting the post-mortem at night but they quickly retracted. Her relatives finally gave permission around noon on Wednesday and the post-mortem was conducted at 12.30pm. But they refused take away the body for last rites. As a result, I told doctors to send the body to the mortuary. Around 4pm, the relatives took away the body for the last rites.” The deceased woman’s relatives demanded the police should lodge a murder case against the civic officials. But the police pointed out that a complaint cannot be lodged against the civic officials because they were conducting the demolition drive following the directives of the high court. Around 500 relatives and residents of Pimple Gurav camped outside the dead house of the district hospital throughout Tuesday from 6pm onwards. Deputy commissioner of police (DCP), zone III, Ganesh Shinde rushed there around 9pm and supervised the police arrangements. He told TOI, “The relatives have given a memorandum to the police complaining about the civic officials and demanding action against them. We will look into the matter.”  The gathering of the woman’s relatives and people from Pimple Gurav started increasing at the hospital on Wednesday morning and the head count soared to nearly 800.  Tulshiram Pawar, the husband of the deceased, gave a memorandum to the police in the afternoon and claimed the woman’s body for the last rites.  Municipal commissioner Shravan Hardikar said, “There are high court orders for removing the unauthorized constructions. So, we will continue with the demolition drive and conduct it as and when we get the police support for it.”