Chandigarh: Entering Burail Model Jail may be difficult without permission, but having a bird’s eye view of the prison or dropping anything on its premises is simple. Just reach the roof one of the three-storeyed Sector 51 housing societies located barely 60 metres from the boundary wall of the jail, and on any given day you can see inmates working on the agriculture fields of this high-security prison. What’s more, the security of the jail, which witnessed the sensational escape of former Punjab CM Beant Singh’s assassins in 2004, can be easily breached from these adjoining roofs.

 According to the Punjab Prison Act 1894, which is also followed by the UT administration, the jail should not be near a residential area and on the outskirts of the city. But the buffer zone near the prison is not fixed in the manual.
 
 According to experts, the jail should be shifted to an isolated area. Experts said the jail was built on the outskirts of the city at that time but then the administration and police allowed construction all around it.
 
 M S Malik, former DGP, Haryana, said, “It is an issue of concern that   is now right in the middle of hotels and houses.” “The authorities should shift the prison to some other place for security reasons,” he said. Jail officials on the condition of anonymity agreed that residential area should not be allowed near the prison. “The security staff has to be more alert keeping in view the nearby residential area to avoid any problem,” an official said.
 
 O P Mishra, IG prisons, said as per the manual which Chandigarh follows, there is no set distance between a prison and residential area. “The jail was constructed in 1972 and at that time it was on the outskirts of the city, but in later years haphazard construction was allowed around the jail. It’s the job of the urban planning department to check these constructions,” said Mishra.
 
 “Every state has their manual in which the distance is also mentioned but Punjab manual is silent on it. The prison in Mumbai is located in the middle of the city and commercial and residential area is surrounded by it,” he said.
 
 According to Roop Kumar, superintendent, Amritsar jail, a buffer zone has been proposed in the new jail manual. “In the model prison manual, a provision of the distance from 100 metre to 150 metre is proposed as buffer zone, which the authorities will have to follow,” said Mishra.
 
 Buffer zones 
 
 In 2015, the Bombay high court asked the Maharashtra government to frame guidelines regarding construction norms around prisons. The government amended the Maharashtra Prison Manual and decided to have buffer zones – where no construction is allowed – around prisons. For central prisons, it is 182 metre to 150 metre, 100 metre for district prisons and 50 metre for sub-jails 
 
 Punjab manual silent
 
 The Punjab Prison Act 1894 is silent on the distance specification of a buffer zone around a jail. A number of prisons in Punjab and Burail jail were set up on the outskirts but are now located in the middle of housing societies and markets
 
 Was on the outskirts: IG
 
 The jail was constructed in 1972 and at that time it was on the outskirts of the city. In later years, haphazard construction was allowed around the jail. It’s the job of the urban planning department to check these constructions
 
 O P Mishra, IG prisons
 
 Burail jailbreak
 
 In one of the most sensational jail escapes, four undertrials had got out of the jail after digging a 109-foot tunnel in January 2004. The escapees were Beant Singh assassins Paramjeet Singh Bheora, Jagtar Singh Hawara and Jagtar Singh Tara, along with their cook Devi Singh.
 
 
