CHANDIGARH: At a time when the city private schools, which have less than 100 seats for entry-level classes, are flooded with admission forms from parents, the picture is completely different in the UT government schools. There are more than 30 government schools in the city, which only have a few takers for   and pre-nursery classes. 

 As a result, the   is planning to merge the nursery and pre-primary classes from different schools into one to utilise the teachers in a better way.
 
 According to officials from the UT education department, there are 115 government schools and the permission to run nursery and pre-primary classes has been given to all schools.
 
 District education officer   had sought data for the enrollment in both classes. It was then noticed that there are certain schools where enrollment is ‘nil’ in pre-nursery classes. In nursery classes, there are only a few students.
 
 According to the department officials, steps will be taken to rationalise the situation. There will be no classes in schools where there will be no enrollment and teachers will be shifted to the schools wherever needed.
 
 Talking about the issue, director school education Rubinderjit Singh Brar said, “I have instructed the district education officer to rationalise classes and then teachers.”
 
 Talking about the reasons behind decline in enrollment, he said the department will examine the matter. Meanwhile, sources revealed that the department was planning to shift students living in one area but studying in different schools to one neighborhood school. 
 
 Thereafter, only one school will have pre-nursery and nursery class in that area and all students can go to the same school.
 
 According to Swarn Singh Kamboj, a government school teacher, there is a decline in enrollment, as the parents want their kids to study in private schools instead of government schools. Another teacher requesting anonymity said in periphery areas, the parents prefer sending their children to schools from Class I onwards. Hence, the enrollment in nursery and pre-nursery classes is less. 
 
 
