NEW DELHI: While dismissing the police plea for custody of two Aam Aadmi Party legislators, Prakash Jarwal and Amanatullah Khan, a city   ordered the deputy commissioner of police of the concerned area to personally monitor the investigation into the alleged assault of   Anshu Prakash since the matter was "very sensitive". The court remanded the two MLAs in judicial custody till tomorrow, when it will hear arguments on their bail application.

 "In the present case, the only ground which remains for seeking police remand of both the accused persons is to establish the motive and confrontation inter-se which is not the purpose of police remand. Hence, the present applications seeking two days police remand of accused... stand dismissed," decided metropolitan magistrate Shefali Barnala Tandon.
 
 The court, however, considered the pending criminal cases against the two legislators. "Admittedly there are criminal cases pending against both accused persons and likelihood of threatening the prosecution witnesses cannot be ruled out," the magistrate said.
 
 Additional public prosecutor Atul Srivastava, who appeared for Delhi Police, argued that the alleged assault on Prakash was an “unfortunate and shameful” incident in which the senior bureaucrat was allegedly intimidated and assaulted by the legislators during a meeting at the CM’s residence. “There are injuries mentioned in the MLC. Injured portions — both ears — show tenderness and mild swelling. There are bruises too,” Srivastava pointed out. The prosecutor also argued that both the accused had threatened to falsely implicate the chief secretary in some cases. 
 
 Advocates B S Joon, Rishikesh Kumar and Irshad, who appeared for Khan and Jarwal, opposed the police remand plea contending the complaint was the political fallout of a disagreement. They said all the 11 MLAs allegedly involved in the case were willing to cooperate in the probe. “No need for police custody remand. They are public representatives, not hardened criminals,” the defence counsels argued. 
 
 Handing over the list of the 11 MLAs to the court, Joon further submitted that except for two offences, the others were bailable. “He (Prakash) was there for seven minutes and eight seconds.... the CCTV footage at the entry/exit gate shows. The FIR was lodged after 17 hours and Section 332 IPC (assault on public servant) was added before the MLC was conducted,” he argued. 
 
 
