NEW DELHI: Senior advocate  , who was asked by Supreme Court to 
  case to find out whether there was involvement of a ‘mysterious’ person who had fired fourth bullet which killed father of nation, told the court on Monday that there is no evidence to prove that Mahatma was killed by person other than  .

 
 Sharan also said that there was no evidence to prove four bullet theory raised by a self-confessed Veer Savarkar devotee and founder of 'Abhinav Bharat' 
  who insisted that four shots were fired at Mahatma Gandhi and it was the fourth bullet fired by a mysterious person that took his life. 
 
 
 
 
 Sharan, assisted by advocates Sanchit Guru and Samarth Khanna, filed the report after examining nearly 4,000 pages of trial court records and the Jeevan Lal Kapur Inquiry Commission report of 1969 in the assassination case and told the apex court that allegation raised regarding involvement of some foreign intelligence agency in the assassination was baseless and not substantiated by any evidence.
 
 Saran filed voluminous report in compliance of apex court’s direction asking him to go through all the documents pertaining to Mahatama Gandhi assassination and assist the court in deciding whether fresh probe is required to be done in the case. The court had passed the order on a plea of Phadnis seeking re-investigation of the case and alleged that Gandhi was not killed by bullet fired by Godse.
 
 
  
 
 “Investigation into the murder of the Gandhi represents the biggest cover up in the history of India. The blame on Marathi people in general and Veer Savarkar in particular for being the cause of the death of Mahatma has no basis in law and facts. On the other hand there is a compelling need to uncover the larger conspiracy behind the murder by constituting a new Commission of Inquiry to look into the issue,” he said in his petition.
 
 Demanding a fresh probe into Mahatma Gandhi's assassination, he claims that "most newspapers throughout the world" reported that 
  and that the "fourth bullet has remained a mystery all along".
 
 Refuting the contentions raised by petitioner, Sharan in his report said, “The bullets which pierced Mahatma Gandhi’s body, the pistol from which it was fired, the assailant who fired the said bullets, the conspiracy which led to the assassination and the ideology which led to the said assassination have all been duly identified. No substantive material has come to light to throw any doubt on any of the above requiring either a re-investigation of the Mahatma Gandhi murder case or, to constitute a fresh fact finding commission with respect to the same”.
 
