Jaisalmer: Forest officials and the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) have locked horns over emergency landing of Indian Air Force (IAF) aircraft on a stretch of the NH-15 near Ramdeora in Jaisalmer district. 

 While the Bikaner unit of the NHAI has sent repeated letters to forest authorities seeking approval, officials of the forest department have remained adamant and refused to give NOC. 
 
 The department has taken this stand as the proposed stretch is a breeding area of the Great Indian Bustard (GIB), a Schedule 1 bird.
 
 The NHAI had identified various stretches on the highway of this border district to land IAF aircraft during war and other emergency following the recommendation of the defence ministry. 
 
 However, the forest department feels that this may harm GIBs, a near extinct bird, that breed in the area.
 
 The ministry has identified five such stretches along the highways of the border district.
 
 According to forest department officials, every year four to five chicks of the GIB are sighted in the breeding area near Ramdeora. “There are 20 to 25 GIBs around Ramdeora. If the aircraft start landing here during emergencies or for regular exercise, the GIBs are sure to migrate from here,” officials said.
 
 Earlier, the Bikaner unit of the NHAI had repeatedly written letters to officials of the Desert National Park (DNP) requesting the NOC to land aircraft. But DNP has been adamant on the issue.
 
 Deputy conservator of forest, DNP, Anoop K R said that the Army and Air Force have always been supportive of conservation, but the current proposal would endanger this critically endangered bird. Enclosures have also been built in this area for the breeding of GIB and the results, so far, have been positive.
 
 If the aircraft start landing on the stretch, the GIBs would leave the place as they are very shy and sensitive to disturbance, he said. 
 
 This area is inviolate and has been proposed as an eco-sensitive zone. “In an ongoing litigation at the Bhopal bench of the National Green Tribunal (NGT), this area has been proposed as a prohibited area for windmills and high tension power lines. Because of these reasons, we cannot issue NOC to the highway authority for landing planes,” he said.
 
 
