BENGALURU:
 In a first, the defence ministry has decided to allow private firms to manage and operate   base workshops in eight cities, including in Delhi and Bengaluru, and their associated station workshops across the country.

 Under the governmentowned, contractor-managed model (or  ), private firms will not be required to make investment on land, equipment, machinery or the support system. All of these will be made readily available to prive firms, according to internal letters and orders issued by the defence ministry and the   accessed by TOI.
 
 The decision is based on recommendations made by a committee of experts constituted to recommend measures to increase combat capability and rebalance defence expenditure of the armed forces. This is in line with PM Modi’s initiative on private participation in defence.
 
 The ministry letter reads: “The government will provide land, infrastructure, plant and machinery, equipment system support, oversight and facilitate the contractor... The contractor operates and utilises the facilities available, manages all types of work and is also responsible to get required licences, certifications and accreditations to deliver mutually agreed targets and maintains the plant machinery and services integral to the venture.”
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 There are eight workshops in the country: One each in New Delhi, Jabalpur, Kankinara, Allahabad, Agra, Meerut, Kirkee and Bengaluru, of which seven are for repair and overhaul of equipment or weapons; the 515 army base workshop in Bengaluru deals with indigenization and manufacture of spares.
 
 On Dec 18, the Directorate General of Electronics and Mechanical Engineering (DGEME) sent a letter to 512 army base workshop (ABW), Pune, informing the employees that “...corporatization of ABWs on   Model is being implemented based on MoD directions issued by the MoD on September 7, 2017.” Similar letters have been sent to other ABWs too.
 
 The ministry has started looking for competent industry partners to run these workshops. To begin with, army base workshops have been asked to develop a model for costing of overhaul — the first step in a long process to identify the lowest bidder.
 
 
 
 
 Until now, the armed forces had not trusted even the ordnance factories to take care of the weapons and equipment and the army base workshops (ABW) were directly functioning under the Army, with the Master General of Ordnance (MGO) under the Chief of Army Staff responsible for them. The MGO is assisted by the DGEME, the Director General of  , and other officers.
 
 ABW staff say they have no clarity on the issue. “There was a letter asking our management to send employee details which it thought could be declared surplus and recruitment has been stopped, but we are unsure why,” one employee at 515 ABW in Bengaluru said.
 
