BAREILLY: After removing   from 153  ,   has set up six teams to keep a tab on their use in each of the six tehsils in the district.
 
  Abiding by the high court order to curb noise pollution, additional district magistrate (city) OP Verma said SDMs, circle officers of police and officials of the pollution control board would be members of these teams. “Six teams have been set up to maintain vigil in all six tehsils in the district. Officials of the pollution control board will measure the noise level. All teams have been asked to send their reports on a daily basis. We will send a weekly action taken report to the government,” he said.
  
  It appears that administrative officials do not want to take any chances regarding the menace posed by loudspeakers as this has led to communal tension in many parts of the state time and again.
  
  “After issuing permission for installing one loudspeaker on rooftops of religious places as well as for any kind of processions and wedding baraats, now we are going to launch a drive to ensure that nobody is violating the norms prescribed by the high court,” he said.
  
  Earlier, the administration had identified a total of 3,459 religious places with loudspeakers installed on their rooftops in the district. Of these, permission was given to 3,306 religious places to install one loudspeaker after their applications for the same were approved but within the prescribed decibel levels.
  
  However, the loudspeakers on 153 religious places in   were dismantled after their managements failed to seek permission.
  
  At the same time, the administration has also restricted the use of sound systems at wedding ceremonies, baraats and other functions. Here too, no prior permission has to be taken from the nodal officer — ADM (city).
  
  “After issuing permission for installing one loudspeaker on the rooftops of religious places as well as restricting its use in processions and ‘baraat’. we are going to launch a drive to ensure that nobody is violating the norms prescribed by the high court,” Verma said.
  
  Earlier, in a 10-page order issued after the court order on December 20, principal secretary, administration,   had directed DMs to categorize areas on the basis of the permissible maximum decibel limit — industrial, commercial, residential and silent zones. The industrial zone has a decibel limit of 75 (70 at night), the commercial zone 65 (55 at night), the residential zone 55 (45 at night) and 50 (40 at night) in the silent zones.
