Hubballi:   in the twin cities will get further boost with the   planning   and  .

 Special officer of Hubballi-Dharwad Smart City Limited,  , told TOI that the plan will be implemented at an estimated cost of Rs 8.5 crore under public private partnership. “The public bike sharing will help increase coverage of city’s  , reduce congestion, ensure greener and environment friendly solution and will be affordable too,” he said.
 
 As per the plan, a person can rent a bicycle, reach the destination and hand over the bicycle to the nearby public bike sharing (PBS) station. Smart cards or keys will be given. A mobile application will help track the bicycle and help the users make the payment online. A central control centre will also be set up to monitor the complete operations. There will be 34 PBS stations and 374 bicycles. A similar plan is already successful in Madhya Pradesh.
 
 Meanwhile, seven   (NMZs) will also be developed in the twin cities. The official said that bicycles tracks will be laid on roads to be identified soon. A bicycle track will also be laid from Kadasiddeshwar Arts College to Tolanakere Tank under TenderSURE.
 
 Cyclists had been demanding improved infrastructure for cycling. Currently cyclists say that the roads are not conducive for cycling.
 
 Karthik Irapannavar, a cyclist and businessman, said that the mindset of the people towards cyclists is also discouraging. “The people, especially motorists, do not care cyclists. We are forced to go off road when four wheelers come from behind,” Irapannavar said.
 
 Dharwad Cyclists Club member and dentist Dr Surekha Prabhu said that the condition of roads in Dharwad is good for cyclists. “Our members cycle every morning. Besides, we also conduct cycling for 100 kms. We also take part in cycling competitions in other parts of the state,” she said.
 
 Hubballi-Dharwad has a population of 9.43 lakh as per the 2011 Census. Length of the roads is 2,100km and the spread area is 202 km. Despite the increase in the number of vehicles, there is also an increase in bicycles.
 
 Bicycles buying is also increasing in the twin cities. Bhavik Shah, owner of Deepak Cycles, said that his shop sells bicycles that range from Rs 4,700 to Rs 73,000. “Compared to the past seven years, people are showing more interest in buying high-end bicycles, thanks to the interest in fitness, love for environment and competitions,” he said.
 
 “The condition of roads in Hubballi is pathetic and not at all suitable for riding bicycles. Increasing traffic is also a big challenge for cyclists,” said Anand Singh Mokashi, president, Hubballi Bicycle Club.
 
 
