For all of 2016 and 2017, the one stand out thing for WWE has been their emphasis on women’s revolution, which, as it is being acknowledged now, has transformed into women’s evolution. And in 2018, the next step to that evolution will take place at WWE’s first pay-per-view of the year, The  , featuring the first-ever women’s Royal Rumble. 

 And this shot at limelight for the women superstars has been possible by their continued efforts of which   Flair, the current SmackDown women’s champion, has been a huge part of. Unfortunately, Charlotte won’t be entering the Rumble, but that doesn’t make her feel left out of being a part of history. 
 
 “That’s where I am torn. As I hold the SmackDown women’s championship, I will have the chance to face the winner,” said Charlotte during a media call. “So, I won’t be able to enter the Rumble, but will have the honour and privilege of knowing whoever wins Rumble will face me at WrestleMania 34,” she said, adding “So, I feel part this historic moment but I am like, ‘Man I wanted to the first to win the Royal Rumble’. My competitive nature wants to be a part of this historic moment. My dad won the Rumble in 1992 and some would say that was one of the highlights of his career; but I won’t be having that epic entrance.”
 
 Charlotte also underlined the significance of the company going ahead with the event, considering the fact that WWE held its first-ever Women’s Money in the Bank ladder match in 2016, had women superstars main eventing Raw in singles match and pay-per-view main event featuring women (Hell in a Cell – Sasha Banks vs Charlotte) in 2016 and 2017.
 
 “I personally feel, we have had so many historical events in last few years and everyone has been pushing for women’s Royal Rumble and to know it is going to happen, it is hard to wrap my head around it; Especially with the WrestleMania season also coming up. “said Charlotte. “However, more importantly for me, is the knowledge that I have been part of so many important moments (of women’s revolution) that has led us to where we are today and that’s why we are heading in to the first-ever Royal Rumble.”
 
 What makes The Rumble Royal pay-per-view exciting and unique is the fact that there is that surprise element of who could walk out when the timer hits :00. It could be a Hall of Famer, a shock return, exciting debut, and Charlotte too feels that the WWE has some tricks up its sleeve for the women’s Royal Rumble.
 
 “I am most excited about the possibility of who will come through the curtain because that is the excitement behind the Royal Rumble. - Is there going to be someone from the past, someone from the May Young Classic, someone who we have never seen before or someone outside of our industry.”
 
 While rumour mills has it that UFC mega-star Ronda Rousey is expected to make her presence at the Rumble, the 4-time RAW women’s champion Charlotte chose not to divulge on the matter, but hinted that another UFC star, Shayna Baszler, who participated in the May Young Classic in 2016, could make a big impact. 
 
 “I definitely think that it is a possibility, especially, with Shayna Baszler making her mark in the May Young Classic,” revealed Charlotte. “About Ronda, I have no idea, but that is the excitement behind the Rumble. Anything can happen and we have seen that in men’s rumble in the past 20 years.”
 
 On being asked who she would like to see want out from NXT, Charlotte, had a few names ready: “I am a huge fan of the Australians – Peyton Royce and Billie Kay – I think they would be great additions to the match; Bianca Belair is an incredible athlete, her presence alone and when people watch her perform will be amazing. Kairi Sane is another. I know everyone is talking about Baszler.”
 
 
