SHIMLA: Chief minister Jai Ram   said special campaign would be launched to sensitize masses about water conservation, adding that traditional methods should be adopted to save this precious resource.

 He said workshops would be held at panchayati raj-level to involve the elected representatives to take water conservation initiatives effectively. He said efforts would also be made to rejuvenate old water bodies and construct new structures for rain water harvesting.
 
 He was addressing a workshop on water conservation organized by the   in Shimla on late Tuesday evening. He said involving community participation can go a long way in effective water conservation to ensure water availability and rejuvenation of traditional water sources.
 
 Thakur said climate change and global warming had further worsened the situation. Water conservation and water management was need of the hour and collective efforts of the government, local bodies and general public were needed.
 
 He also requested the MLAs to launch water conservation campaign in their respective areas so that Himachal can take a lead in this endeavor. He also appreciated the efforts of Magsaysay award winner and the ‘Water Man of India’ Rajinder Singh for making water conservation a mission not only in Rajasthan but throughout the country. He said afforestation could also play a major role in water conservation and environment protection.
 
 Meanwhile, Dr Singh said Himachal was lucky as it received about 180 cm annual rain but the groundwater was declining at a great speed. He said about 70% perennial water bodies have dried up. He stressed the need to work towards ground water conservation. He said the traditional water conservation system of India was universally acclaimed and it was also need of the hour to use natural resources judiciously.
 
 Speaker Dr   said Himachal was among the few states of the country which have plenty of rainfall. Maximum water flows down the rivers unutilized and wasted. He said it was essential that each drop of water was fully used. He said this would not only conserve water but also help in rejuvenation of rivers and rivulets to make them perennial.
 
  leader Mukesh Agnihotri said keeping in view topography of different areas of the state, it required separate strategy for each area of water conservation.
 
 
