CHANDIGARH: A caller claiming to be gangster   has threatened to attack   and   and kill four to five people, triggering panic and sending police in a tizzy.

 
  
 
 Sources said the phone call was received at the police control room around 8.30 pm on Sunday. Police immediately swung into action and beefed up security at the high court. On Monday morning, visitors were seen anxiously inquiring about the heavy deployment of security as they were frisked. Police also released photographs of Dilpreet and two other suspects, which were pasted at the entry gate of the court and distributed amongst security staff, CID and policemen in plain clothes in and around the court complex.
 
 Senior superintendent of police (SSP) Nilambari Jagdale said, “The call was made from a mobile phone registered in the name of an auto-rickshaw driver. The driver has been rounded up for questioning. He has alleged someone borrowed his mobile phone to make an urgent call. But he said he could not identify the man. The caller has claimed he is Dilpreet, but we doubt his voice. Call records of the mobile phone were also deleted. We have asked for his voice samples from jails in Punjab. If we get them, we will get the voice samples matched.”
 
 However, sources said the driver failed to recognize the photograph of Dilpreet. Now, police are making the sketch of the caller with the help of the driver.
 
 Chandigarh police officials said they have put additional police force in the court complex and ensured elaborate security arrangements.
 
 SSP (security) Shashank Anand said, “Photographs of Dilpreet have been displayed with a view to identify any of such gangsters attempting to enter HC premises. Photos have also been given to security persons for identification. Three-tier security arrangements have been made at the HC and we are taking no chances."
 
 Recently,   along with his accomplices claimed to have shot at Punjabi singer and producer Parmish Verma in Mohali and injured him. Dilpreet had boasted about it on his Facebook account.
 
 Last year in April, Dilpreet Singh along with Harinder Singh, alias Rinda, and Akash had shot dead Satnam Singh, a sarpanch of Khurdan village of Hoshiarpur in Sector 38 (West), Chandigarh, in full public view.
 
 
 
