GANDHINAGAR: The   government on Friday cracked the whip on 1,500 class I employees who failed to file their annual property returns (APRs) — which is mandatory under Service Conduct Rules — by withholding their April salaries. The state government had recently instructed all class I employees to file their APRs.

 Chief secretary   said all employees must file APRs and the action (withholding pay) aimed to ensure compliance. Sources said that with a number of government officials being snagged in the anti-corruption bureau’s net, the move also aims to tackle corruption.
 
 Singh said, “To curb corruption, the state government instructed all class I employees to file annual property returns (APR), which is compulsory under service rules. The government has withheld the salaries of some 1,500 employees who ignored these written instructions.
 
 The all-India services (IAS, IPS, IFS) must compulsorily file APRs online and we are considering applying the same rule for the state government’s class I employees. APRs are key to uncovering cases of disproportionate assets (DA). The government has also instructed the anti-corruption bureau ( ) to pro-actively take up DA cases.” 
 
 The   (GAD) introduced a new PAR (performance appraisal report) system this March, under which APRs must be filed before January. If officers fail to file APRs in time, it will negatively affect their performance appraisal. Appraisal reports of those who fail to file APRs may not be accepted for promotion or other benefits as well.
 
 Conduct rules say government officers must file APRs on joining service and every year thereafter. They are supposed to provide details of their own property and property held by spouses and other family members.
 
 The General Administration Department (GAD) has introduced new PAR(Performance Appraisal Report) system from March 2018 under which it has been mandatory to file APRs before January of any year. If the concern officer have failed to file his/her APRs on time than it will be consider as the negative sign and it can directly affect on the performance appraisal also. Those who failed to file their annual property returns their Appraisal reports may not be accepted for considering promotions and other benefits also. As per the services conduct rules the government officers are bound to file the property details while joining the duty and thereafter every year in service. They are also suppose to provide details of their own, spouse and other family members.
 
 
