MANGALURU: Last week, when a juice shop owner was away at work, burglars made away with cash and valuables worth Rs 7.2 lakh from his home. Two days ago, three houses were burgled in Ujire with valuables worth lakhs looted.

 In yet another incident, which took place on New Year’s Eve, a 58-year-old woman who was alone in her house at Aikala Berike in   police station limits, was hacked to death by robbers, after which they took away her jewellery from the house. The incident took place in broad daylight.
 
 In spite of such repeated incidents, people have not learnt a lesson from them. According to police, keeping a large quantity of valuables at home instead of in safety lockers, and displaying the same in public, is one of the main reasons for house break-ins and thefts (HBT). Most of these crimes take place after dusk.
 
 The yearly HBT crime data reveals that as many as 219 HBT cases have taken place in Dakshina Kannada district in 2017, which roughly amounts to 18 HBT cases per month. Among them, 123 cases have taken place in the Mangaluru city police limits. This year, so far, 17 HBT cases were recorded across the district.
 
 A senior police officer points out that the main reason for the theft is keeping of valuables at home, and not informing the police when people leave their homes for some days. “A robbery job has no investment; all it needs is a few tools to break open doors and lockers. Keeping valuables at home is an invitation to such miscreants,” he adds.
 
 Explaining the modus operandi of habitual HBT criminals, the officer says they wander around residential areas like the common man, and keenly observe the movement of residents of each house. Later, they zero in on their target, after learning that the house is empty for a long time. Clues that show that the house is empty are newspapers, garbage and other things lying outside the house, unattended for days. “Time and again ,we have asked residents to inform the police before they go on long leaves, but no one has given a thought to it,” the police adds.
 
 Locker facility
 
 Though there are safe locker facilities offered by banks, not many use it. A bank manager told TOI that the minimum charge for a safe locker starts from Rs 1,000 per annum up to Rs 5,000. It is priced according to the size of the locker, bank, and facilities offered by the bank.
 
 “We do documentation only for the locker facility. The bank will not interfere with what amount of gold is deposited in the locker. That is the responsibility of the customer,” he said.
 
 
