Chennai: Sex. It doesn’t have anything to do with this  , but it got your attention, didn’t it, so there it is right up front. Followed with a pot load of poo, a virgin and an engineer (possibly both the same person), and a Mylapore mama. Now string it all together with nouns, verbs and adjectives, and you’ll probably find yourself bang in the middle of a typical stand-up routine in the city. Yes, the stand-ups are aplenty (24 a month apparently), but the standards unfortunately seem to be a-plunging. Take this routine, for instance, at a recent performance in the city, when a comic, evidently distraught at not eliciting enough laughs, finally resorted to talking about "*****ing off his dog". Then, livid at the cringe he received instead of the grin he expected, he huffed that the crowd was being difficult. In snuck the virgin. Rajinikanth. TamBrahm uncle. Oh, c’mon Chennai!

 "Stand-up is tough; it’s a craft that requires discipline," says Dushyanth Gunashekar, who runs a   collective. "But in Chennai, most stand-up comedians have reduced it to five jokes. And they’re realising that it doesn’t work anymore." In the last year, Gunashekar has had several pre-teens and teens thronging his workshops. "They think it is just about cracking a string of  , but it isn’t. Stand-up was originally a highly political tool that made a statement. In Chennai, most stand-ups have reduced it to reinforcing a stereotype, of the city and its people," he adds. "It is becoming a popular genre of entertainment, but if it doesn’t get past the usual material, how long will the novelty last?"
 
 Stand-up comedian Sudarsan Ramamurthy aka Soda hopes it will be a long run, having taken it on as a full-time career, and sees himself on stage for a few more decades. The storyteller-turned-stand-up, one of the few in Chennai who isn’t an engineer or from Mylapore, has already performed across India and abroad. "Stand-ups sometimes use sex or the south Indian stereotype just to connect with the audience. They see it as the easiest way to get a laugh," he says.
 
 Soda, like a handful of the more popular stand-ups here, says they prefer to use personal experiences in their routine because it makes it more original and has a lasting impact. Another comic, Alexander (Alex in Wonderland), finds fodder in his being a Tamil Christian, while Karthik Kumar of Evam, who has done more than 120 shows in three years, says he draws his material from life.
 
 "Life is a comedy," he says. "I see stand-up as a medium for dialogue generation, whether it is about sex, politics or society. It can swing from ‘I am going through depression’ to a take-off from how many Gujaratis are there in the house," says Karthik, one of the few stand ups in the city to bag a special on Amazon Prime. While Aravind SA’s ‘Madrasi Da’ (which though funny in parts, feels less like a personal stand-up show, and more like a parody parade of Mylaporean jokes) was the first, Karthik’s show ‘Blood Chutney’ will air next Friday. 
 
 "Jokes on engineering used to be part of my routine because I studied chemical engineering," says Karthik, adding that he steers clear of it now that the travails of the south Indian engineer have become run-of-the-mill. "Generic jokes may crack up an audience, but never make a lasting impression. The pitfall is that people may remember the joke but not the performer and so, as a comic, you will be forgotten. Stand-up routines need to be or at least seem autobiographical to stand out," he says, adding that today, as a nature of expression, stand-up comedy has become viable both artistically and moneywise.
 
 
