KOLKATA: A call from CM   Banerjee to   on Monday may have come as a breather for the city’s beleaguered  , who has been the subject of intense speculation since his security was scaled down without any notice last week.

 Those privy to Monday’s developments said Banerjee asked the mayor to discharge his responsibilities. “I am the mayor and am not putting in my papers,” Chatterjee told his closest confidants after the call. “I will continue in this post till the party tells me to do otherwise,” he added. The KMC Act of 1980 says a mayor can be removed if a majority of councillors pass a no-confidence motion. So, Monday’s phone call may indicate that the party may not be looking to replace Chatterjee for now. 
 
 Monday’s first half, however, was very different from how the day ended. 
 
 Chatterjee was in Delhi for a greater part of the day and he returned to Kolkata at 4.40 a.m. In the interim, civic commissioner Khalil Ahmed chaired an hour-long meeting with KMC officials on how to shore up the KMC’s revenues. That meeting, significantly, was held at the mayor’s chamber.
 
 That meeting at the mayor’s office in the mayor’s absence was followed by another 20-minute meeting between Ahmed and mayor-in-council member Debashis Kumar; Ahmed then met another mayoral council member, Atin Ghosh. All this fanned the speculation about a “change” at the red-brick building on S N Banerjee Road.
 
 Chatterjee’s frequent Delhi trips have not helped. State BJP president Dilip Ghosh did not reply to a question on whether the Kolkata mayor had gone to Delhi to seek an appointment with BJP national president Amit Shah but added that he would be welcome if he wanted to join the BJP.
 
 The developments at the KMC headquarters capped a week of activity, during which Chatterjee called on Trinamool president Subrata Bakshi as well as city police commissioner Rajiv Kumar.
 
 Party insiders said it was evident that the leadership was not happy with how Chatterjee had been taking his problems on the home front to the police station. His staying away from his in-laws even after his mother-in-law (and Trinamool MLA), Kasturi Das, passed away did not escape the notice of Harish Chatterjee Street. “Yes, the senior leadership wants him (the mayor) to get back to work after solving his domestic problems,” a senior Trinamool leader said.
 
 But Chatterjee’s inner circle said he, too, had reason to feel hurt. “There is a feeling that many in the party are meddling in his personal life,” one of them said, adding that the episode smacked of a “conspiracy”.
 
 
