Jaipur: Rajasthan High Court has imposed a fine of Rs 25,000 on the officer in-charge (OIC) for failing to file reply on a petition on Ramgarh dam.

 The division bench of Justice MN Bhandari and DC Somani was hearing a suo motu petition on the encroachment on the catchment areas of the Ramgarh dam. The court had earlier summoned the higher officials of the concerned departments and sought affidavit from them on the steps taken by these department in complying with the orders of the high court directing remove all encroachment from the catchment areas of rivers and water bodies.
 
 However, except a few, most of them failed to file affidavit on the ground of the recent bureaucratic reshuffle. The revenue, UDH and JMC did not file any reply. On a similar petition by PN Mendola, the high court had earlier issued notice, but the concerned officer in charge did not file reply to the petition. The court then imposed a cost of Rs 25,000 on the officer to be deposited in the account of the state Legal Services Authority in a week. 
 
 The court appointed committee of lawyers reported that no reduction in the pollution levels in Pali and Balotra was reported. The court said, despite the court orders the State Pollution Control Board has failed to take effective measures to reduce the water pollution and warned of action against PCB chairman.
 
 The court then asked the Advocate General for his co-operation and sought his suggestion within 15 days. On the encroachment on the Banganga river at Bharatpur, the court asked for a report from the tehsildar of the area.
 
 ‘Make monument encroachment free’
 
 The Rajasthan High Court has directed the state government to stop illegal constructions in the protected area and remove the encroachment on the historic monument of Akbar’s Palace (Magazine Building) in Ajmer.
 
 The division bench of Justice G K Vyas and G R Moolchandani gave the direction on a petition by Prabudh Manch through its president Krishnand Tiwari.
 
 The petitioner said illegal constructions were mushrooming at the historic monument of Magazine building in violation of the rule that no constructions be allowed within 100 meters of such buildings and demand direction to stop and demolish such constructions.
 
 The magazine building also known as Akbar's Palace is built by Akbar in 1570. Akbar used to stay here during visit to Ajmer dargah. Later, it was taken over by the Britishers from Marathas and was used as arsenal ground. Thereafter, this building was known as Magazine building. This palatial building was also used as embassy building of Sir Thomas Reo, British merchant who presented his credentials to Mughal emperor Jahangir on January 10, 1616. In 1908, it was converted into Rajputana Museum.
 
 
