KOLKATA: If you thought “eating local” was one of the healthiest food trends, maybe it’s time for a reality check. An   has found a more-than-50% overuse of fertilisers in Bengal, which could be exposing the population to a host of serious ailments, even cancer, apart from taking a heavy toll on the environment.

 “In Bengal, phosphorus, potassium and nitrogen are added to the soil by farmers in very high proportions. Without soil testing, it has a hazardous health impact,” said lead scientist Bhabani Das of IIT-Kgp’s faculty of agriculture and food engineering department. 
 
 The team — comprising faculty and researchers — was working on how to make soil-testing fast and inexpensive, so that farmers test the soil of their holdings before deciding on how much and what   to use. In doing so, they toured Bengal extensively and collected soil samples from agricultural fields in several districts: South Dinajpur, Malda, Murshidabad, Burdwan, Hooghly, Howrah, East and West Midnapore, Nadia, and the two 24-Parganas. After extensive study, the team concluded that the level of minerals and other nutrients is quite high in these districts, and farmers can easily cut down on fertiliser use by as much as 50%.
 
 The fertiliser overuse is not only rubbing off on the crops. A number of chemicals and heavy metals also leaching into waterbodies, and eventually into the groundwater, say experts. Doctors have warned of fertiliser overuse taking a heavy toll on human health. “Intake of excessive potassium can cause cardiac problems and trigger muscle paralysis,” said Arindam Biswas, a medicine consultant at Rabindranath Tagore International Institute of Cardiac Sciences.
 
 “Excessive nitrogen, on the other hand, is linked to a condition called methemoglobinemia, a condition in which abnormal haemoglobin is produced, impairing oxygen transfer to tissues. It can also cause neural tube defect (defective brain and spinal cord formation) and hyperthyroidism. Phosphorus can also degenerate the bone,” he added. Other health professionals pointed out that heavy metals such as mercury, lead and cadmium, often found in fertilisers, can affect kidneys, lungs, the liver and can even cause cancer (see graphic). 
 
 The team has stressed that farmers need to properly test their soil before deciding to use fertilisers. 
 
 Soil testing is not popular because there are very few laboratories, the tests are time-consuming and expensive. The team has come up with a technology, where the testing will be done with the help of spectroscopy, and the results will be derived from the energy absorbed/reflected back. Apart from determining the health of the soil, the test method will also determine the grain size of the soil, the soil moisture level and the weathering index (how the soil was formed). This is the first time any soil-testing technology in the world has been able to derive these results, said a euphoric Das. The research has been published in the prestigious ‘Soil Science Society of America’ and ‘Geoderma’, two of the world’s most respected journals on agricultural science and technology.
 
 Agricultural scientist Sibasish Chatterjee said fertilisers should be used in a proper ratio. “Ideally, nitrogen, potassium and phosphorus should be used in a ratio of 4:2:1. This ensures a balanced overall crop growth. However, there is a tendency to over-use urea-based fertilizers, which are highly subsidized. Nitrogen-intensive fertilizers give crops luxuriant growth but overuse can be detrimental in the longer run. We should not deviate from the proper balance,” he said.
 
 
  
 
 
