VISAKHAPATNAM: National Highway Authority of India ( ) will shortly issue a Letter of Acceptance (LoA) to a contractor to take up the flyover dedicated for   traffic, at Convent Junction, an accident-prone area.

 The civil works of the project, which is a joint venture of NHAI and   (VPT) will begin in the middle of this year.
 
 The flyover will begin at the graveyard at the Convent Junction and will end at the Ambedkar statue inside the port area.
 
 Speaking to TOI, an NHAI official said that the tendering process for the project is almost over and the NHAI would announce the name of the contractor by the end of this month.
 
 NHAI sources said that the lowest bid for this project would be Rs 45 crore and the length of the flyover would be 700 metres. The Centre will grant 50% of the project cost to the contractor under the SagarMala project, while the remaining 50% of the cost will be borne by NHAI and Vizag Port equally.
 
 “This flyover will play an important role in preventing road accidents and reducing travel time of the port’s   carrying vehicles,” the NHAI officer said.
 
 Visakhapatnam city traffic police and road transport authority (RTA) had identified this Convent Junction as an   prone area. Every year at least five people die and more than 10 people are injured in road mishaps at this junction, which is close to the Visakhapatnam railway station and the Vizag port. In a recent mishap at the junction in the second week of this February, two people lost their lives.
 
 Once the flyover is completed, heavy freight vehicles will have a different thoroughfare. It will allow free flow of traffic, said K Prabhakar, assistant commissioner of police (traffic).
 
 On the other hand, officials from the Visakhapatnam Port said that the main objective of the flyover project is to reduce the logistic cost by strengthening linkage for faster transferral of cargo from the port to customers and vice-versa.
 
 “The flyover will act as a grade separator in order to help the port traffic bypass Convent Junction to reach National Highway-16 at Sheelanagar,” a Port officer told TOI.
 
 The Port has submitted the project report to the Union ministry of shipping two years ago and has finally reached the tender finalisation stage by the end of this fiscal.
 
 
