BENGALURU: In a political gamble close to the assembly polls, the Siddaramaiah government decided on Monday to declare   as a religious minority and include the Veerashaivas who follow   as a group within the community.

 
 The move is expected to have a huge impact on the assembly polls. Some analysts say it may make or mar the electoral prospects of the ruling  , given that Lingayats can influence the outcome in nearly 100 seats in the 224-member assembly. The community makes up 17% of the state’s population.
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  had vociferously opposed the move on the grounds that it would split society further and introduce more cleavages in the social-religious fabric.
 
 Lingayats have traditionally supported BJP, especially in northern Karnataka; so this move is seen by most as a bid by Congress to split BJP’s Lingayat vote base. Monday’s decision comes amid threats from Veerashaiva seers, led by the panchacharyas (five powerful seers), against granting religious minority status to Lingayats alone.
 
 The Veerashaivas are a sub-sect of Lingayats and ardent followers of Lord Shiva. Basavanna, a 12th century social reformer, founded Lingayatism. The Veerashaivas preceded Basavanna.
 
 Some had threatened to campaign against Congress in the polls. To pacify this section, the cabinet decided to include Veerashaiva-Lingayats as a group within the Lingayat community. “The cabinet decided to grant minority status to Veerashaivas, who consider Basavanna dharma guru (religious head), believe in vachanas (verses) as sacred text and wear Ishta Linga (symbolic representation of a formless god). They will also be considered Lingayats,” law minister TB Jayachandra said, quoting the recommendation of a seven-member panel headed by Justice Nagamohan Das (Retd).
 
 The cabinet is set to ratify an official notification to this effect at its next meeting, possibly next week. It will, then, recommend to the Centre that the community be granted religious minority status. While Lingayats — who trace their origin to 12th-century social reformer Basavanna — have been demanding recognition as a separate religion and not be identified as Hindus, Veerashaivas had opposed it on the ground that Veerashaivas and Lingayats are one and the same. 
 
 Lingayats said while both communities worship Shiva, Veerashaivas follow the Vedas and the caste system, which was rejected by Basava. In accepting the Lingayat demand, the government made it clear the Veerashaivas are a sub-sect of Lingayats.
 
 
 
 
