NAGPUR: Ill-effects of using products that generate toxic waste and pollution of   were the main topics taken up at the two-day workshop on ‘Toxin-free lifestyle’ organized by the Jeevit Nadi, Pune, and Ecological Society, Nagpur, recently. 

 The panel of experts included eco sanitation expert and ecologist  , interior designer turned ecologist and Jeevitnadi Shailaja Deshpande, ayurveda practitioner  , former director of All India Radio and founder of Giripremi Ushaprabha Page and former IT engineer-turned-ecologist and organic grower Prachi Mahurkar.
 
 On the first day, Upasana and Deshpande explained what’s toxicity and urged everyone to be a conscious consumer. Chopade linked use of chemicals with various health issues. 
 
 One of the highlights was a session in which Upasana talked about being aware of the ingredients being used in the products we use daily. Giving example of a cup of tea, he said, “It is critical to realize the environmental and health hazards caused by the ingredients individually and by the final product.”
 
 Mahurkar shared with the participants some facts regarding Nag River, its geology and its status. He explained harmed caused by non-biodegradable waste and plastics.
 
 On the second day, participants visited the Nag River and took an oath to adopt eco-friendly lifestyle. “We also promise to not emit toxic waste from our home. We are very much convinced that the river is our responsibility,” said Mahurkar.
 
 Following the visit, issues like the state of Nag River due to pollutants released by human activity and disregard for the work done by sanitary workers were discussed.
 
 Experts also gave demonstrations on non-toxic products that can be used for personal and domestic cleaning on a daily basis.
 
 Celebrity chef Vishnu Manohar who prepared a 1,000kg dish of mixed vegetables during a programme organized by Maitri Parivar Sanstha (MVP) for promotion of organic food, said, “The increased use of chemical fertilizers and pesticides has led to spurt in diseases among humans, birds and animals. Organic farming is a solution to these issues. Even though organic food is costly and grown in fewer quantity, it is worth every penny. The food tastes better and has high nutritional value,” said Manohar.
 
 
