AHMEDABAD: With 140 community members in Ahmedabad and an equal number scattered across  , the   at Khamasa doesn’t have a rabbi. Instead, it has an honorary cantor in Joseph ‘Johnny’ Pingle, who lives nearby and takes care of the synagogue.

 Aviv Divekar, secretary of the synagogue, is frank in admitting that a number of traditions are followed just in spirit as their meaning has been lost over time. “Johnnybhai trains the young generation in various rituals and conducting prayers to carry forward the tradition,” he said. Pingle painstakingly teaches them from the Torah or how to blow a Shofar (ram’s horn) during rituals.
 
 The Bene Israel community, which will greet PM   along with Israeli PM  , at its height had no more than 500 members, but a sharp decline began in the 50s and 60s, when many relocated to Israel. A number of prominent community members such as Dr Lael Best, who studied at  , work in Israel today.
 
 Divekar said their efforts to get minority status are under way. “We got a positive response from the state government as our delegation has already met K G Vanzara, director of Developing Caste Welfare, and a proposal has been sent to Delhi for final approval. He told us that with such small numbers, we may be the most deserving for the status,” he said.
 
 With the mezuzah on their doors and the nine-branched candelabrum at their tables, the community keeps religion and customs close to their hearts.
 
 Noted Indian Jewish author Esther David, who is also working on a project to document Jewish food in India, said it is interesting how a number of customs and traditions got interwoven with local ones.
 
 “Coconut milk is used extensively in preparing food, keeping with the Konkani roots of the community. We have a special delicacy, chik-cha halwa, prepared during our New Year whereas during Yom Kippur, we prepare Kippur-chi-puri. It certainly has the influence of local cuisine,” she said.
 
 The synagogue remains the epicentre of all community activities, ranging from bar mitzvahs to weddings. Benjamin Reuben, president of the Magen Abraham Synagogue, pointed out similarities between Hinduism and Judaism. “We share a lot in common, ranging from customs and traditions to festivities. Our festival of Sukkot arrives around the time of Navratri, and both festivals emphasize on penance. For the city, it is a matter of pride that Khamasa has a temple, a mosque, a church, an agiari and a synagogue,” he said.
 
 
