KOCHI: Admitting that the new system introduced for hiring trucks for   from different parts of the city was a failure,   are planning to scrap the contract. The corporation authorities in a report sent to the council for its approval state that the local body suffered an additional burden of Rs 1 crore in the past seven months as the contractor who supplied the trucks was paid on the basis of weight of the waste transported. 

 A report from health inspector in Brahmapuram stated that the truck owners are carrying rocks, red earth etc for increasing the weight and dumping such waste at Brahmapuram solid waste treatment plant. Now, the health standing committee has adviced reverting to the earlier system in which the payment was on the basis of number of trucks supplied on each day. The committee also wants to scrap the agreement with the contractor.
 
 "It was after the health standing committee conducted a review in December, 2017 that the issue of financial burden caused by the new method was found. In the seven-and-a-half months during May, 2017 to December, 2017, an additional amount of Rs one crore had to be shelled out for hiring trucks," a top official with the corporation said. 
 
 "There are also complaints that the contractor for   is not providing adequate number of trucks. As the profit of the contractor depends on the weight of garbage transported, the contractor would use a single truck for collecting waste from many divisions. This has led to unavailability of trucks in many divisions. So, the health standing committee has asked the corporation secretary to explore the legal aspects for scrapping the contract and reverting to the earlier system," the official said. 
 
 The health standing committee also called for repairing all the trucks and mini-trucks owned by   and utilizing them for  . Most of the trucks and mini-trucks owned by Kochi corporation are out of service due to technical reasons.
 
 According to opposition councillors, the corporation had spent lakhs of rupees for conducting repair works of trucks and mini-trucks. "Still, they are unable to use them for transporting garbage. We had been demanding for several months that the corporation should use own trucks. But nothing happened so far," said C K Peter, an opposition councillor. "The transportation of garbage has been causing huge loss for the corporation. This is due to the negligence, inefficiency and corruption of the ruling front," he said.
 
 
