KOCHI: Excitement over a ‘nice time’ with a woman at one of the most sought-after destinations in the state landed a Kochi youth in big trouble. The well-dressed youth, who was roaming alone on road, after his luxury car, phone and other valuables were stolen by his date and her friends, was rescued by   police patrolling   area on Thursday night.

 The resident of  , aged 32, who lodged a complaint with the police on the next day told police that he was approached by two unidentified persons with promises of sexual favours while he was at a temple in the morning. The gullible man accepted their offer and readily took off on a date with the woman in her late twenties in his own car.
 
 The two strangers, who played matchmakers for the couple, also accompanied them on the trip. “The group roamed around in   with the couple at tourist spots. After sharing a few drinks and having a nice time they headed back to Kochi. However, he was tricked into getting out of his car on the way back when the rest of them drove off with the vehicle and other valuables inside it,’’ said a police officer.
 
 The youth had an argument inside the vehicle with one of the two men and the woman cajoled him to taking a smoke outside the car. “His statement is that he went out of the car for a quick smoke when they reached an isolated location near  . He also said that it was the woman herself who suggested that he take a smoke to calm himself down,” said police.
 
 The police have registered an FIR under sections 392 (robbery) and 34 (common intention) of the IPC. A probe is on to find the unidentified persons including the woman, who allegedly robbed the youth of his valuables.
 
 The incident which happened on January 4 came to light when the youth was accosted by the police patrolling team. After hearing his ‘sob story’, he was sent home and asked to file a complaint later.
 
 The FIR was filed on Friday night after the youth visited the police station to file a complaint.
 
 “At first he was unable to properly explain what had happened as he was still perplexed. When he managed to tell the whole story, we sent him home and the complaint of robbery was lodged only the next day,” police said, adding that the youth’s story still has holes.
 
 Police said that the youth, who claims to have spent nearly a day with the trio, could not figure out their identity. “A probe is on and we searched a few of the locations where they had visited. We are yet to make any progress though. Also, we are doubtful about some aspects in his story like the location where he met the trio and got out of the car as there are mismatches on his tower location,” said police.
 
 
