MADURAI: Normal life was affected in Madurai city as most shops and commercial complexes remained shut till evening in response to the bandh called by various political parties demanding the setting up of  . However, essential services were not affected as government offices remained open. In fact,   ( ) managed to operate most of its fleet although private mini buses stayed off the road.

 Almost 90 per cent of shops in the city remained closed throughout the day as widespread protests took place in various parts of the city and rural pockets. No untoward incidents like stone pelting at buses took place. According to the city police, 80 to 90 per cent of TNSTC services from the city depots were operated. But the number of passengers was far less than normal, except for a few services during the school hours. A few private schools declared holiday.
 
 Many of the residents had stored essential items like milk and vegetables expecting disruption. “We were cautious and had purchased our needs the previous day. However, most grocery shops were kept open on the day of the bandh. Essential services like medical shops were found closed as a result of which elderly people were affected,” said M Muthulakshmi from Jaihindpuram. 
 
 In Madurai, protests took place at various places including Periyar bus stand, railway junction, Scott Road, Thamukkam and Avaniyapuram. A large number of cadres from various political outfits led by   barged into the railway junction and began a rail roko. Tense moment prevailed as the protesters got into a scuffle with the police who tried to prevent them from entering the platform. Though four layers of protection were in place, the protesters numbering 1,000 overpowered them and gained entry into the platform. They stopped Nagercoil-Mumbai express around 11.45 am at the junction causing a delay of 30 minutes in its departure. The protesters tried to block trains at   station too. 
 
 In all, around 2,750 people were arrested in Madurai city and rural areas together, including around 200 women who were released later in the evening. Heavy police deployment was made at like railway junction, where the protests took place. Both the city and rural police units had spread the force to many pockets. While shops like tea stalls started opening by 4 pm, other commercial establishments started functioning from 6 pm. 
 
 Similarly, widespread protests were recorded in districts surrounding Madurai like Dindigul, Ramanathapuram, Sivaganga, Virudhunagar and Theni. Over 3,200 people including four MLAs were arrested in   alone. Eight buses including a private one suffered damages in stone throwing at various places in Dindigul district. More than 2,500 persons were arrested in Ramanathapuram district. 
 
 
