She might come from a family of established professionals — her husband, Sathyaraj, is a seasoned actor, her son,  , has made a name for himself in Kollywood, and her daughter,  , is a popular dietician in the city — but that didn’t stop Maheshwari   from pursuing her dream of having a career of her own. From being a homemaker, she has now realised her dream of turning a producer in her 50s.

 She says, “I studied English literature in Visalakshi College in Udumalpet. I must admit I was quite a studious student. When we (she and Sathyaraj) decided to get married, he had just started his career and was mostly playing the villain. So, many of my relatives and well-wishers were not happy with our relationship because being an actor was a taboo in those days. But my mother and I believed in him. After our wedding, we moved into a small house in Chennai.”
 
 Calling Sathyaraj a “hands-on father”,   says, “He was always around to help me with the kids despite his busy schedule. I always had the urge to learn. I learnt driving and when my kids started their swimming lessons, I, too, wanted to join them. When I asked my husband if I could learn swimming, he said, ‘You don’t need my permission to do anything’. He was very encouraging and would drop by to watch me learn swimming.”
 She continues, “When my husband started acting as a hero, there were rumours about him and his heroines, but we would just laugh off the rumours. I’m fond of Ambika, Khushbu and Banupriya, and we are family friends. I believe in God and my husband does not, but he never stopped me from praying. My children and I were free to follow any religion.”
 
 Ask her what prompted her to try her hand at producing films, and she says with a smile, “I didn’t think of starting a career earlier as my focus was always on my kids. After   and Divya settled down, I had the urge to work. I decided to do something in the industry that has given us everything. My husband was extremely supportive of my decision and I started my company,  , in my mother-in-law’s name. I enjoy complete freedom, and he never interferes in my work. I always joke about how he is the only financier who does not ask for accounts!”
 
 The banner has produced   and Sathya. “We are dog lovers and that was one of the reasons why the script of Naaigal Jaakirathai appealed to us. We also thought that a dog-cop thriller was new to Tamil cinema and would appeal to the audience. I used to visit the sets of my husband’s films, but being on a set as a producer is totally different. I love the energy and I think I was lucky to get a wonderful team. I’m happy that both Naaigal Jaakirathai and Sathya have done well. Now, I’m looking forward to working on my next production,” she says.
 
 Maheshwari has a word of advice for her fellow womenfolk on this International Women’s Day. “Never allow anyone to give you lessons on how to bring up your children or give you advice on your relationship with your spouse. Trust your family and raise your children with your values. Age is just a number; there’s no age limit for a woman who wants to start her career. You can even start your career when you are 60,” she signs off, confidence brimming in her tone.
 
 
