NAGPUR: Ex-MP Nana Patole, who recently joined   after resigning from   and the BJP, has demanded pressing charges of culpable homicide (not amounting to murder) against chief minister   in the Dharma Patil case.

 Returning from a tour of   district from where the 84-year-old Dharma Patel hailed, Patole said the old farmer had been going from pillar to post to demand correct compensation for his land acquired by the government. His neighbour had been paid Rs1.5 crore while Patil was given just Rs4 lakh as compensation for same size of land. In December, he had written to the authorities concerned about it and even threatened to end his life if his demand was not met.
 
 He was later called on January 22 for hearing of his case but on reaching there, he was told that the meeting was cancelled. It was then that Patil moved towards chief minister’s office and consumed pesticide to draw attention of the government. Later, he succumbed in hospital.
 
 Patole said, in 2016 at Dondaiche town in Dhule district, the local authorities pressed charged against local municipal council president and others when a 12-year-old boy died of downing in a canal. “Going by the same yardstick, the government should press homicide charges against the chief minister and his cabinet colleagues who were responsible for Patil’s death,” said Patole.
 
 Patole also raised questions over ‘Mr Clean’ image of Fadnavis and said how can he be not tainted when he is trying to hush up corruption cases against his ministerial colleagues. He also cited the instance of   cooperative bank at Dhule. The bank was under scanner after Rs15 crore were siphoned off as loans even without application papers.
 
 A special investigative team (SIT) of the police was about to take action against tourism minister Jaikumar Rawal and another  , both from Dhule district, for their alleged role in the bank scam. But the SIT was hurriedly scrapped by the CM in his capacity as home minister. The SIT probe was replaced with state CID inquiry just to hush up the case against minister Rawal, Patole alleged. 
 
 
