GURUGRAM: Among the thousands of phone and internet calls that keep the US and Gurugram connected for business, scores of sham ones went out daily from an office in a business park set up in the city by techies.

 The call centre was bogus but nothing else was — the employees, mostly young boys and girls in their mid-20s and with a degree of fluency in spoken English, were chosen carefully and accent-trained to sound legitimate. An office was set up in Info City 2, near the Hero MotoCorp plant, two floors were taken on lease, work stations installed and the trained employees put on the job. A website was set up too, pitching the company as and end-to-end IT services consultancy. It named a series of MNCs, including two telecom giants and an energy major, as clients. 
 
 The employees were given a set of American numbers to call. But not to pitch for business or on behalf of clients. These youngsters had to impersonate US tax officials, concoct a tax evasion story and put the fear of law in the minds of those they were speaking to. Over a period of around eight months, this operation went on smoothly, bringing in, it is suspected, thousands of dollars in swindled money from Americans who got bullied into coughing up money.
 
 The call centre, run in the name of Alethe Consulting Private Limited, was   late on Monday when police conducted a raid at the Sector 33 office. The raid, which lasted well into Tuesday morning, ended with the arrest of three people associated with the firm, two of whom are BTech graduates. Police are currently assessing the overall quantum of money swindled by the company, and examining bank accounts of the three arrested men. They have also identified more suspects, who are yet to be arrested. One of those still free is likely the mastermind of the operation.
 
 According to the company’s LinkedIn profile, it has 65 employees, of whom, 40 were present during the raid. Police said they used to call up hundreds of people in the US every day, claiming to be officials of the United States (US) federal government’s Internal Revenue Services (IRS). Meanwhile, the IRS has been issuing alerts, providing US taxpayers with tips on how to protect themselves from telephone scamsters pretending to be with the IRS.
 
 The Pune police had unearthed a similar racket that used the same modus operandi by raiding a call centre in Koregaon Park area, which is suspected of having cheated more than 11,000 US citizens by issuing threats of punishment for tax evasion, this February. 
 
 “They used to pose as IRS officials, and issue threats to random people, alleging they had discovered the victims were evading tax, and forcing them to pay up,” said DCP (crime) Sumit Kuhar, adding they had been tipped off by local informers about the fake call centre, upon which, a joint team of   and Sadar police stations conducted the raid. Kuhar said the call centre was involved in a slew of violations, and promised to crack down on all such operations in Gurugram.
 
 The three men arrested, all in their late 20’s, are engineering graduates from reputed institutes. They are Vatsal Soni and Siddarth Sachdani from Ahmedabad (both BTech holders) and Brijesh Yadav of Bijnor, Uttar Pradesh. They were booked under Section 66D (  by personation by using computer resource) of the IT Act, and sections 419 (cheating by personation), 420 (cheating) and 34 (common intention) of IPC. The suspects were produced before a local court that sent them into three-day remand.
 
 Of the three, Vatsal ran the call centre, while Siddarth managed employees and Brijesh provided tech support. But police believe there are bigger fry behind them. They also seized the company servers and computers. The employees were detained, but released after questioning. A police source said several such call centres were involved in stealing sensitive customer data and selling it to other companies.
 
 Alethe Consulting Private Limited was operating without any registration, licence or approval. “When we raided the office, we found many girls and boys wearing headphones and talking in English with an American accent through computers,” said sub-inspector Rajesh Kumar, the investigating officer.
 
 The masterminds trained youngsters to speak American English and make calls to random US citizens, posing as officials of the IRS, and threaten them with raids if they didn’t pay up through wire transfers or purchase of iTunes cards, which the fraudsters could redeem. “These people used to convert the iTunes cards into cash through a complicated process, which is being probed,” said an official probing the case. The probe also revealed the call centre owner used to provide a list of US citizens with their necessary details to Siddarth via email, who in turn would designate the employees to make the fake calls.
 
 The suspects also used multiple bank accounts and other financial means to collect the money, and even hired employees using dubious means.
 
 
