THIRVANANTHAPURAM: The two men arrested for the alleged rape and murder of a Latvian tourist raised serious allegations of custodial torture against the police on Friday and said that they confessed to the crime fearing for their lives. They raised the allegations of police brutality before the judicial first class magistrate at   when they were produced before the court.

 
 The court complex witnessed dramatic scenes when the two accused, Umesh (28) and Udayan (24) were brought here. As soon as the police vehicle carrying them entered the court premises around 1pm, the family members and friends of the accused jumped in front of it and started protesting.
 
 They even followed the police and the accused into the court room and continued their protest sparking a commotion. They kept repeating that the two men admitted to the crime out of fear after police subjected them to third degree torture.
 
 The magistrate had to ask the police to direct them out of the courtroom. Later, once the court proceedings began, the magistrate told the accused that if they had any complaints, they need to file a written complaint. The magistrate also arranged them an advocate, who noted down the complaints dictated by first accused Umesh. Second accused Udayan too signed on the petition. The advocate is expected to file the petition before the court on Saturday.
 
 The police, meanwhile, dismissed the allegations and filed a report before the court stating that they have sufficient evidence to incriminate the two accused in the case.
 
 The report also stated that the accused had hidden the victim’s undergarments and footwear under the bushes near the crime scene. They need the custody of the accused to recover them, the police said.
 
 The court granted 13 days of custody of the accused. Before granting the custody, the magistrate sent the two accused for medical examination. The order granting custody was issued only after perusing the medical report In another development, a fresh case was registered against first accused Umesh at   police station for unnatural sex. The case was registered based on a statement given by a youth from Panathura neighbourhood.
 
 Investigation officer   (assistant commissioner, Fort sub-division) said the crime related to the case took place a few months ago and the police decided to register a case as the youth approached them with complaint following the latest developments.
 
 Speaking about the Latvian tourist’s murder,   president   said on Friday that the incident has put the state’s reputation at risk and that it will deter tourists from visiting the country.
 
