 is a busy actress these days with a number of films in her kitty. CT caught up with the actress for a brief chat. She is working on a plethora of films (Mr Chandramouli, Neeya 2,  ,  , Kanni Raasi,  , Echarikai, Pamban among others). Ask Varalaxmi how does she choose her scripts, and she says, “The script should be interesting to me. It depends on how much importance my role has in the film. Only after I know all this I sign a film.”

 She has signed a movie with her father Sarath Kumar for the first time and talking about working with him in Pamban she says, “I accepted the role because I get to share screen space with him. I have already started working with him. I am really happy because this is the first time I’m joining him for a movie. It’s good fun and I am not nervous.”
 
 Talking about being part of AR Murugadoss’s next which has   playing the lead, she says, “The offer came on my birthday and I couldn’t have asked for a better birthday gift. So, I was really excited. Of course, I had a previous meeting with them, but they confirmed it on my birthday. I have been longing to work with Vijay sir for quite some time, and finally I got this opportunity. The shoot yet to begin because of the industry strike.” Does she think this could be her top film? “I don’t call any of my films as a top film. Every film is a different experience. I also don’t base it on who I act with.”
 Of late, there have been quite a number of films that have strong women roles. Ask her as to what is her take on that? “Definitely! I myself have signed three-four such roles. I am quite excited with the way work is coming and the way writers are writing scripts, which is more important. I like them because such roles challenge me. If you see my line-up of movies, I have played a different role in every film, that is my plus point and that excites me. So, I am happy choosing roles like that.”
 
 Varalaxmi is not particular about Kollywood, and says she would like to experiment in other industries as well. “I have not yet signed any film in Telugu or Hindi, I have not come across anything interesting in both these languages, but if anything interesting comes up, I will definitely take it.”
 She recently took part in the show Enga Veetu Mapillai, which has Arya. Sharing her experience, she says, “Arya has been a good friend of mine for quite some time. Sharing time with him on the show was quite fun. It was a joyful episode.”
 
 Having worked with acclaimed directors, including  , quiz her who she is comfortable working with, and she states, “I have been comfortable with all the directors. I am yet to shoot for Murugadoss’s film, so I don’t know. I am mostly comfortable with all the directors because I am a director’s actor. I haven’t had any problem with any director till now because I usually give what they want in the first or second take and they are happy with it.”
 Talking about director Bala, she shares, “It is a misconception that Bala sir is a serious person who is strict on the sets. But, as far as I know, he is a fun-loving person. He is my guru and I felt like going to school and acting learning when I was shooting with him for Thaarai Thappattai.”
 
 What does she think is the biggest challenge for women actors in the film industry? “I think casting couch has to be eliminated — that’s obviously the next problem that has to be addressed in the industry. I still think casting couch exists and people don’t get fair chances because of that. To me, that is biggest challenge for women actors.” 
 
