 —  

 This quote from the pioneering American broadcast journalist of the 1930s sums up the outcome the   government wants to achieve by lining up a massive push for the infrastructure sector. “Infrastructure is the growth driver of the economy. 
 
 Our country needs investment in excess of Rs 50 lakh crore to push GDP growth and integrate the nation with a network of roads, airports, railways, inland waterways and to provide quality services to the people,” finance minister   said on Thursday.
 
 He backed up his words by raising allocation for infrastructure by over Rs 1 lakh crore, or 21%, to Rs 5.97 lakh crore in 2018-19 from Rs 4.94 lakh crore in 2017-18. But this is, in a sense, for core areas like roads, ports, railways and aviation. 
 
 The   allocations go much beyond these with the aim of developing physical assets to deliver services to people, especially in rural areas, and enhance, in the PM’s words, “ease of living” and create jobs.
 
 “The focus of the government next year will be on providing maximum livelihood opportunities in rural areas by spending more on livelihood, agriculture and allied activities and building rural infrastructure,” the FM said. 
 
 In 2018-19, ministries will spend Rs 14.34 lakh crore, including extrabudgetary and non-budgetary resources of Rs 11.98 lakh crore, the finance minister said.
 
 Jaitley reckons these investments — ranging from constructing school buildings, rural roads, net connectivity and water supply systems, to giving free power connections to poor households — will end up creating employment of 321 crore person-days, 3.17 lakh km of rural roads, 51 lakh new rural houses, 1.88 crore toilets and provide 1.75 crore new household electric connections, besides boosting employment.
 
 The programme to provide universal access to energy to the poorest of poor, according to Deloitte’s Debasish Mishra, “is going to transform the socio-economic landscape of India”.
 
 The power ministry’s Saubhagya scheme envisages providing free power connections to four crore poor households and the oil ministry’s   plan envisages free LPG connections to 8 crore such families.
 
 At a macro level, an expansion in infrastructure will also spur growth in demand for core industrial products such as steel and cement, and boost other economic activities. 
 
 Harsh Jagnani of rating agency   sees the Budget emphasis on developing airport infrastructure by five times, and raising the outlay for the aviation ministry to Rs 4,086 crore in 2018-19, as a timely intervention required to keep pace with robust growth in passenger traffic.
 
