VADODARA: The family of professor  , former dean of MS University’s Faculty of Commerce and director of  , who died on March 17 after  , has decided to   in his name.

 The announcement was made by professor Shyam Menon, brother-in-law of Bansal and vice-chancellor of Ambedkar University, Delhi, at a programme titled ‘Remembering professor Sharad Bansal’ to pay tributes to Bansal on Tuesday.
 
 “It is the idea of the family to start an endowment in his name and a trust will manage it. The proceeds of the endowment will be for endeavours that were close to his heart. We feel his life was incomplete and he wanted to do several things,” said Menon.
 
 From former vice-chancellor of MS University (MSU) to professors of the university to eminent citizens and students of commerce faculty, many remained present at the BBA Auditorium at Maharaja Pratapsinh Rao Parisar (formerly known as Donor’s Plaza Ground) to pay tributes.
 
 “He used to have meticulous plans and sharp memory. He would ask me about what we had discussed months ago. The career counselling and placement cell in the faculty and organizing an alumni meet on a grand scale were two of his biggest contributions,” said professor Dinkar Nayak, dean of commerce faculty.
 
 Former vice-chancellor of MSU Anil Kane said, “There are very few people who have a caliber like him. He went away at an age when a person is most-productive academically.”
 
 “Even during recovery, he had so much enthusiasm to do new things which will be missed the most. He had a risk taking ability, to chart new paths which is lacking in others. It is only because of him that BBA program and BBA Baazigar have become synonymous,” said educationist Tejal Amin.
 
 “We have stayed together so much that I was aware of his likes and dislikes. We all should do something that we meet every year and remember him,” said Nilesh Shukla, president of Vadodara Chamber of Commerce and Industry.
 
 Bansal’s daughter Anusha while thanking everyone present there said, “I am humbled and overwhelmed how papa must have touched your lives. In his path, things moved and nothing remained still. It is only because of him that I am a strong person today. It makes me proud when people come and tell me how wonderful he was.”
 
 
