A popular television anchor, video jockey and film actor, Erode   was a professor in a college before he forayed into television. He says if he has to choose between teaching and media, he would plump for teaching, as it was the first career choice he made in his life. Mahesh starts off, “I am very passionate about teaching. I still visit colleges to give guest lectures — as a breather in between my tight schedules. I never miss an opportunity to teach.” He mentions that being friendly with his students is his biggest strength. “My students text me saying they miss me; I miss them, too,” he adds. 

 Although his popularity as a   host has earned him several supporting roles in Tamil cinema, he continues to rule the stand-up comedy scene. “My career in the media provides me with opportunities to travel worldwide. I perform stand-up comedy shows in countries that I visit. This way, my comedy can reach a larger audience. I am devoted to stand-up comedy and I can never give up on that,” he says. 
 
 On being asked if he is interested in doing stand-up comedies in vernacular languages, he says, “I like speaking in local dialects, but I cannot apply the same for all stand-up comedies because not everybody understands the language, which is specific to a particular region. Hence, I prefer a common language while performing.”
 
 Mahesh is currently hosting   (KPY) season 7, a popular comedy reality show, on Star Vijay. He says that the show, Naduvula Konjam Disturb Pannuvom, which he did along with  , earned him a big name. Mahesh will be soon seen in a film, the shooting of which is going to begin from March.
 
 Looks like Mahesh is greatly involved in social activities nowadays. Mahesh says that he wants to conduct ‘motivational classes’ for government school students. “I studied in a government school and I know how they are looked down upon by the society. This should not make them flinch in the future. I want to convey to them that government school students are no less than the private school students. They should be motivated and encouraged to achieve something in life,” he signs off.
 
