NAGPUR: Despite the unpleasant experience of the Maharashtra government not paying dues for preparing the Gorewada master plan, the Singapore-based global zoo design and consultancy firm Bernard Harrison and Friends Ltd is likely to make the detailed project report (DPR) of leopard safari in Chandrapur.

 According to forest department sources, Harrison was in Padmapur on March 19-20, to explore the land on the   road. He was accompanied by   (MZA) and local forest officials. The project estimated to cost Rs100 crore is likely to come up in 100 hectare area. 
 
 “The global expert has been roped in by Tata Trust, Mumbai, which has agreed to prepare the DPR for leopard, tiger, herbivore safaris and a rescue centre in Padmapur. This will done free of cost under its corporate social responsibility (CSR),” said senior officials.
 
 “Things are at preliminary stage and Harrison had visited to explore the site. He has sought a detailed data on flora and fauna, watershed maps in the area whether it is suitable or not. There are chances that adjoining private land will also be acquired,” they said.
 
 In 2015, forest minister Sudhir Mungantiwar had announced setting up of four leopard safaris in the state — one each in Chandrapur, Pune, Borivali and Amravati. However, work on not even one has started.
 
 The proposed leopard safari in Chandrapur has been mired in confusion. Earlier, the project was to be set up in 30-35 hectares forest on Ballarpur Road under   division.
 
 The earlier forest site was outside the buffer zone of Tadoba. The new site falls in buffer zone and will need National Tiger Authority of India ( ) clearance as there are certain restrictions on setting up safaris in buffer zone.
 
 Earlier, in August 2016, MZA had invited ex-chief wildlife warden of West Bengal and well-known zoo expert Brij Raj Sharma at proposed safari site. He was to prepare concept plan before making a DPR.
 
 Similarly, in March 2017, MZA invited expression of interest (EoI) basically for empanelment up to 10 zoo consultants, mostly for the safari projects in the state. “However, as there was no response, the plan was dropped,” said MZA officials.
 
 In between, plan to set up leopard safari in Central Chanda was dropped for reasons unknown. Officials said, “The basic idea to set up the project at Padmapur is to divert Tadoba tourists here. Those who couldn’t sight tigers in Tadoba, can get an opportunity for guaranteed sightings in the open safari which will be fenced and done through caged vehicles on the lines of Gir National Park in  .” 
 
 
