By Prachi Arya

 Clad in an embroidered orange anarkali suit with shimmering gold border,   actress   looked regal when she visited Lucknow recently, as the guest of honour at a musical event. The actress, who has been to Lucknow before too, seemed quite elated to be back in the city. "It is my second visit to Lucknow in a very short span and I think I already connect with the city well," said the actress, adding, "Lucknow, as far as I have heard, is always known for its culture, literature and poetry. So it has set a cultural benchmark for the entire country. This city has produced writers of classics like Mughal-e-Azam, Mother India, Ganga Jamuna, Sholay and many more. And how can we forget Naushad sahab,   sahab and many more such film artists who are from Lucknow. I have really enjoyed the Lakhnawi nazakat, culture and cuisine on my last visit to the city which I remember till date."
 While Zeenat’s contemporaries like   and   are still doing films and are more prominent on the big screen, we wonder why the actress is not that visible in movies. "You know I was always looking out for age appropriate roles. I had a completely different age slot. Hema ji was in a different slot, Shabana ji was in a different slot. And I had a completely different image. You can’t apply that image to the person I am now. That image does not apply to a lady in her 60s. It is very difficult to find age appropriate roles for me," shared she, adding, " But now I have signed a project which is a big banner film and the news will be out shortly." 
 And it isn’t just Zeenat who will be seen in a movie soon, her sons, Zahan and Azaan Khan, too are getting ready for a Bollywood debut. "My younger son Azaan is getting offers for movies and he has also signed a few films. However, Zahan has just finished his first feature film as a director and a producer and is all set to start work on his next. So as a mother I am quite happy to see both of them trying hard to make a career in Bollywood."
 
