Address the Kashmir problem first. Allow Pakistani cricketers in IPL. Get more Pakistani actors in Bollywood. These are some suggestions put forward by former RAW chief A S Dulat, while laying out a roadmap to promote better relations between India and Pakistan . 

 Dulat is the co-author of a new book, ' : RAW, ISI and the illusion of peace'. Retired ISI boss and co-author Asad Durrani underlines the need to formalise back-channel talks and setting up a team headed by someone "considered suitable by the major political parties, the foreign office and the military." The unusual book was born out of an unlikely series of dialogues between the two former intelligence chiefs from rival camps. Since the duo couldn't meet in their own countries, the conversations took place in cities such as Istanbul, Bangkok and Kathmandu. Journalist Aditya Sinha steered the exchanges.
 
 Durrani outlines the team's task in the book. "He should select a small team with expertise on foreign, security and regional affairs. Its primary tasks would include regular communication with the other side...In a bad situation-for example, the Mumbai attack-the team should make imaginative new suggestions on which the two countries could co-operate."
 
 He further elaborates, the team "can be considered a modified version of Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE), a Cold War body created to prevent conflicts in Europe, which had representatives from both sides of the East-West divide." 
 
  In the chapter, "Forge structure or Break Ice," Dulat says, "Now we've had this circus called IPL for the past seven years, and there are some outstanding Pakistani cricketers who'd be great entertainers. Afridi has probably retired, but people come out especially to watch him bat. But such players aren't included in the IPL. What's the reason? The reason is cussedness. Why should a Pakistani make money? The irony is some senior Pakistani cricketers live in India almost all the time, like Zaheer Abbas, who's married to an Indian. Or commentators like Wasim Akram and Rameez Raja." 
 
 
