GURUGRAM: Two government  , posted at   in  , have filed   against each other for threats, misbehaviour and negligence to official duties. 

 Dr   is on deputation from Translational Health Science and Technology Institute and posted as a junior resident doctor at the hospital. He was on duty at the neonatal intensive care unit (NICU) on the day he had a fight with paediatrician and senior medical officer Dr   who was then in charge of the unit. 
 
 Their complaints have been filed with the health department, following which the principal medical officer has taken up the charge of the NICU. 
 
 According to Dr Tanwar’s complaint, on March 27 around 4:30pm, he received a call from the data operator, asking him to call Dr Mehta. 
 
 However, Dr Tanwar got busy with patients and couldn’t make the call. At around 6pm, Dr Mehta arrived at the NICU and started yelling at Dr Tanwar, asking why he had not called him. 
 
 Dr Tanwar said he was busy and did not feel the requirement. At this, Dr Mehta lost his temper and threatened to dismiss Dr Tanwar from the job. “He asked me to leave immediately and not return to work the next day. I replied I will only take such orders from my officers,” said Dr Tanwar.
 
 Dr Tanwar filed a complaint against Dr Mehta on March 28, pointing out a joint complaint had been filed earlier against Dr Mehta because doctors in the NICU unit had been allegedly unable to work under him as he was disrespectful.
 
 However, Dr Mehta told TOI the doctors were not following the duty roster and when asked to mend their ways, they filed a false complaint. “I too have filed a complaint against six doctors who were not doing their duties,” he added.
 
 Dr Pradeep Sharma, principal medical officer, is now investigating both complaints. “We have received complaints from both sides and will conduct a detailed investigation into the matter. As of now, the principal medical officer has taken up the charge of the NICU ward and will ensure that all doctors complete their shifts and there is no misbehaviour of any sort with any professional or patient,” he said. 
 
 
