JAIPUR: Hopes of water flowing freely through the middle of the   after the completion of the 47km   front project may remain on paper as authorities are struggling to find a water source for the dry stretches.

 Many areas of the river, starting from   and ending at  , are expected to remain dry after the completion of the project as bringing water poses a serious a challenge.
 
 According to a report, nearly 6.1km area between Jaislya and   is dry. While waste water from VKI area flows into a small pocket here, it cannot be utilised as no sewerage treatment plant (STP) has been proposed in this area.
 
 Similarly, the 9km stretch between VKI and Jaislya will also remain dry for nearly 11 months due to absence of a water source. The area will receive water only for a month during monsoon.
 
 Since water between Ambabari and Rawalji Dam flows only during the monsoon season, the   (JDA) has proposed to release treated water in this area after laying pipelines in opposite directions.
 
 “It has been proposed to construct a pump house at Sushilpura flyover and a STP at Sitarampura. The distance between both is nearly 6km. This has been done to fill the dry stretch of the river with treated water,” said a JDA official.
 
 The JDA is depending mostly on recycled water from colonies to ensure water in the river. To bring water, JDA has proposed to lay sewerage lines in over 100 low-lying colonies situated close to the river by spending approximately Rs 20 crore. The sewerage will be treated and released into the dry river.
 
 The civic body had earlier expressed its inability to carry out the work as it required a huge financial commitment. However, as part of the Dravyawati River project they can put in place a proper sewerage network in colonies near the river. “Laying sewerage lines is not an easy task. A proper study is required to examine the slope and to ensure that water would swiftly flow into the river,” the official said.
 
 Explaining the plan, the official further added, “There is a plan to install five sewerage treatment plants (STPs) under the project. These will treat a total of 170MLD water. Of this, 50MLD will be treated after laying the sewerage line in low-lying colonies, and 100-120 MLD from existing big nullahs in the city.”
 
 
