MUMBAI: Two teens enter a wedding reception hall and walk away with a bag containing  , diamonds and cash collectively worth Rs9 lakh on January 29. The   was caught on CCTV cameras but the teens have managed to evade arrest till now.

 MIDC police probing the case suspect the accused were not first-timers, hence they managed to pull off the theft confidently.
 
 The complainant has alleged the club management, which is politically connected, is putting pressure on the cops not to harass their staff.
 
 The incident occurred between 11 am and noon at Matoshree Supremo Club in Jogeshwari (East). CCTV footage shows the duo entering the hall together, but they split soon after. After a few minutes, one of them climbs the dais with a group of guests going to wish the couple, while the other is seen near the videographers. The teen on the dais quietly walks to a chair where the gifts are kept and walks out with a bag in hand.
 
  The groom, ad promo producer Jasbir Marwah, who filed the complaint, said the valuables stolen were gifts given by film celebrities and guests. "I suspect the teens were helped by the staff present in the hall. How else could they walk out so easily?,"   said. 
 
  Marwah says the bag containing the gifts was kept on a chair behind him. He said the theft occurred seconds after his sister, Jasprit Kaur, left for washroom break. "My sister was taking care of the bag in which the valuables and our house keys were kept. The two waited till they saw her leave and made away with the valuables," he said. 
 
 Deputy commissioner of police (Zone X) Navinchandra Reddy confirmed the theft. "We have inquired with the hall staff and are getting details about the incident. So far we have not been able to establish the role of any of the staff members in the crime," said Reddy.
 
 Denying the allegations made by Marwah, club staff said they were cooperating with the probe.
 
 A case under Indian Penal Code section 380 (theft) has been registered against the unidentified accused.
 
 
