NAGPUR: The notorious khap panchayats seem to be operating in Vidarbha too. The cops recently arrested four senior members of the Marar community of vegetable cultivators at   village in   district. A family complained that it had been forced to pay Rs62,000 in 2010, since their son married outside the caste, to avoid ostracization from the community.

 Interestingly, the family complained to police now since another family was asked to pay only Rs31,000 for a similar ‘offence’, and the community elders refused to refund the excess amount recovered from them in 2010. The Marars claim to be from the same community as Jyotiba Phule, who was among the first to have initiated a social movement against casteism in Pune, way back in late 19th century.
 
 Extracting penalty for inter-caste marriages seems to be the community practice here. In 2010, Digambar Khare, a schoolteacher, married his colleague Priyanka Parkhande, a Dalit from Wardha. A year later, when the couple came to Kinhi, a community council was summoned and the family was made to pay Rs62,000, says the groom’s brother Bunendra, who filed the police complaint. The Khares saw the fine as part of the tradition, till a lesser amount was charged from anther family, leaving them irked.
 
 Those arrested include president and secretary of Marar community association at Kinhi, Fatehlal Kanhawat and   respectively, apart from other leaders Mishulal Kanhawat and  .
 
 “We had been asked to make an application before the community association, in which it was stated that an inter-caste marriage has taken place, and the family will abide by the council’s judgment on the matter,” said Bunendra.
 
 A meeting was held and some of the members went out to decide the punishment. It was then spelt out that the family will have to pay Rs62,000 or be removed from the community, said Bunendra.
 
 “I had no choice at that time because Marars are a majority in the village. It would have been difficult to survive once out of the community. We are farmers, and have to depend on each other for tilling the land and other jobs. If I had defied the council, it would have been impossible to get farm hands from within the community. So I arranged for the amount,” he said.
 
 However, Bunendra said he was left angered when a boy, Lalit Khare, from another family, was charged only Rs31,000 for marrying a girl from the Pawar community recently. “There is no system of determining the amount. It’s done according to the leaders’ whims,” he said.
 
 There have been such instances in other villages too, where different amounts have been extracted from families with members marrying outside the community, said a relative of the Khares. “Families in Balmatola and Tedwa villages nearby were made to pay just Rs5,000 to 6,000 each by the community leaders,” he said.
 
 “The money taken from such families is shown as donation towards the community’s development. Donations are given voluntarily, and the amount is not decided by community councils. In our case, the meeting went on till 2am to decide the amount. Have they all forgotten Jyotiba’s teachings?” said Bunendra.
 
 
