Here are the actors who have made it to the maiden   on Television 2017. And boy, are they hot — they’ve got everyone going gaga over them alright!

 
 
 
 he handsome hunk is currently the new heartthrob of the Malayalam telly audience, with his role as Satyajith IPS in the serial, Athmasakhi being hugely popular. His fan base even includes Mollywood actress Anusree, who had once revealed it in the show, Onnum Onnum Moonnu. 
 
 Single
 
 Tall and well-built with a soft-spoken and uber cool personality, he can set every girl’s heart aflutter
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 : It was love at first sight for women viewers when he first made an appearance in the serial Parasparam as Sooraj. That his character defined what an ideal son, man and husband should be only added to his popularity. He entered showbiz via cricket league and is a left-hand spinner, who was part of the Kerala Under-19 cricket team.
 
 : Married to Sumi
 
  His washboard abs and that oh-so-desirable physique
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 : He became popular through his role as Nandan from the serial Bharya. The son of yesteryear actor Rony Vincent, Ronson had also made his presence in Tollywood and Mollywood. The actor has been spotted in different looks, and looks every bit a model in his shoots.
 
 : Rumoured to be married
 
 : His rippling muscles, macho looks and that voice. The hottie can charm any girl with just a smile.
 
  
  
 
 
 
 : Rahul made his mark in television through his role as the boy-next-door, Hari. The role won him many more TV projects including the multi-lingual serial, Nandini. He also turned host for the last edition of the dance reality show D4 Dance. The youngster is sure a lucky chap, as he enjoys a fanbase outside Kerala too.
 
  Single
 
 : Those boyish good looks and that beard can make any girl go weak in the knees
 
  
  
 
 
 
 : Remember the reporter who played villain in the Fahadh film Artist? Yes, model turned actor Sreeram is a film actor now, enjoying his television stint in the serial Kashthoorimaan. He plays the protagonist, Jeeva, a film star, in the soap.
 
  Married to Vanditha
 
  His lean physique and dashing looks
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 : His role as Jayan in the serial Karuthamuthu still stays close to viewers’ hearts. The serial Mangalyapattu also helped Richard in his small screen stint. The actor is also a travel and health freak.
 
 : Single 
 
 : His unkempt beard, fit bod and that attitude leave the girls drooling over him! 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 The Thrissur native is best known for his character roles in the serials Kanakanmani, Bharya and Sthreepadham. However, his desirability also comes from the fact that he is a great husband and a hands-on dad to his little son.
 
  Married to Divya Arun
 
  His geek look accentuated by his cute smile
  
  
 
 
 
  The actor of Pranayam serial fame has become familiar to Malayali audiences with his role as Sharan G Menon. The model turned actor brought up in Chennai is currently busy with the soap Ammuvinte Amma and is the most loved new face in the industry. The actor recently revealed that he is in favour of a love marriage, so girls, what are you waiting for?
 
 : Single
 
 : His innocent face and stubble is a deadly combo and he can leave girls drooling over him. His good boy image in Ammuvinte Amma makes him the kind of boy your mom would approve of.
  
  
 
 
 
 : He has come a long way in showbiz, starting off as a child artiste at the age of 14. He won the Kerala State Best Anchor Award for his show Super hits in 2007 and evolved into a mature actor later, appearing in films and serials. The character role of Abhishek in the serial Chandanamazha was a feather in his cap. The ambitious actor is also a loving father.
 
 : Married to Devaja
 
 : He is the quintessential family man. His catchy on-screen presence makes him endearing to women of all ages.
  
  
 
 
 
  Deepan Murali is best known in the small screen industry for his current role in the serial Seetha. The ambitious actor also proved his talents through serials like Nirakoottu, Ival Yamuna, Parinayam and Sthreedhanam. When he announced his engagement with beau Maya GS, he broke quite a few hearts!
 
  Married to Maya GS
 
  Those eyes are really windows to his soul, and that desi swag and attitude!
  
  
 
 
 
 : He is a household name for viewers of Malayalam television. Often referred to as the 'Superstar' of Malayalam serials, the actor has carved a niche for himself on the small screen with his roles in shows ranging from Sthree to Kunkumapoovu to his latest, Bharya. For a lot of youngsters who did not watch television, he became the reason to turn on their TV sets! 
 
 : Married to Vinitha P Nair
 
  His traditional good looks, sense of humour and his ‘family man’ image.
  
  
 
 
 
  Ramiz is a new face in showbiz but is slowly gaining attention with his villain avatar as Shiva in the serial Kashthoorimaan. The new kid on the block might have just started his career but we sure look forward to seeing more of him.
 
  Single
 
  His chocolate boy good looks and friendly smile. And he is considered a look-alike of actor Asif Ali too
  
  
 
 
 
 : He is Raman of the serial Seetha. True to his name, his character is also an honest man who lives for his dear ones. The serial has made him a hit among the viewers and he has won quite a few hearts too!
 
  Married to Ashley Stephen
 
 : Those boy-next-door looks and hot bod make him irresistible!
  
  
 
 
 
 : Few would know his real name as his known as Indran in the serial Seetha. The handsome villain is as dear to women viewers as the hero as he shifts easily from grey shades to gentleman. His portrayal of Rudran in the serial Kumkumapoovu has also been noticed. Well, this Malappuram native has a long way to go.
 
 : Married.
 
  The macho guy’s handlebar moustache complements his bad-boy look
 
  
  
 
 
 
 : He rose to fame as the male lead of the serial Nokatha Doorath where he played the role of the young hunk named Udayan. It was his debut but he was surely noticed. The model turned actor is a promising talent in the industry.
 
  Married
 
  He is young, suave and has swag that’s hard to ignore
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
