  : Agitated parents of the children killed in a bus   in Nurpur last month have given an ultimatum of five days to the state government to act against the departments concerned. They also submitted evidences and a detailed report prepared by them at the police headquarters on Friday. 

 Challenging the government inquiry report, they said, “We launched an independent probe (into the accident) and found that the chassi number was tampered with. We have submitted photographs of the same with the police,” said Vikram Singh, an Army personnel who lost his daughter in the accident.
 
 They even brought along school bus driver Madan Lal’s son, Digvijay, to reinforce the point that the school was the third owner of the vehicle and that it was not properly maintained. “Police claimed that it was a 2013 model, but we have every evidence to prove otherwise. Action should be taken against transport officials for letting this old bus operate with number of its year of making tampered with,” said another parent Ajay Singh.
 
 They even produced a letter written to the department in September 2017 for repairing the road. “There were trees at the spot, but PWD officials cut them down and build a retaining wall which gave away within days and turned this place, where the bus rolled down, into a black spot,” claimed Karan Singh, who lost his son in the accident.
 
 Angry parents even questioned the credibility of Mangat Ram, who got an FIR registered in the case. “Mangat Ram was a stamp vendor in Nurpur tehsil. How could he register an FIR sitting about 20 kms away from the accident spot? Police have no answer to this,” said Naresh Singh, another angry parent.
 
 They also raised questions on the truck lying at the accident spot. The school bus had fallen on it. “Who was responsible for this truck lying on the spot while its owner had taken claim from an insurance company but left it behind,” said Vikram. 
 
 It was on April 9 that a school bus rolled down the hill in Nurpur area killing 28 persons on board, including 24 children below the age of 12 years.
 
 SP Kangra Santosh Patial said that he had taken the parents’ reports and has instructed the departments concerned to take cognizance of it at the earliest.
 
 
