There’s workplace politics and then there’s discussing politics at work. The rule pretty much stays the same for both: whatever you feel, keep it bottled up. When it comes to office discussions, the rule of thumb states, stay away from anything religious or political. “They are both polarising topics and best avoided as workplace chat as the chances of offending someone are very high,” warns etiquette coach Pria Warrick.

 But avoiding politics as a topic of conversation is easier said than done. It’s how Rahul Gandhi infamously said: “Politics is everywhere. It’s in your shirt, it’s in your pants. It’s everywhere.” Especially now as we are nearing LS elections.
 
 
 
 A 2016 CareerBuilder survey, done around the time the Presidential race was on in the US, found that nearly 3 in 10 employers (30 per cent) and 1 in 5 employees (17 per cent) argued with a co-worker over a particular candidate. Rosemary Haefner, the chief HR officer for the survey, said: “With passions running high, individuals run the risk of saying things or behaving in ways that can be considered unprofessional or discriminatory.” To navigate rough waters during election season, etiquette experts advise you keep your conversations fair and respectful. “If you feel political chit-chat is getting heated or confrontational, walk away,” Warrick says. Interestingly, the survey also found that the management is more likely than employees to argue about candidates.
 
 
 Warrick adds, “Also in India, politics does crop up everywhere – during tea break, lunch hour, even board rooms.” But there’s always a way to discuss and not disagree. In fact, experts say that learning how to talk about politics in a productive manner can help you manage other difficult conversations at work – like performance reviews or disagreements over policy, so much so that you can leverage it as a networking or bonding opportunity.
 
 The key: stay neutral. It’s not about proving a point, it’s about giving a perspective and walking away. The same applies to your social media accounts. Don’t be too vocal or polarising, especially if you have office colleagues as friends or followers. Politics like veganism or gender debate is just another topic where emotions run strong, the stakes are high, and opinions vary. But there’s always a grin and hear it.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
