MUMBAI: Not for nothing is Mahendra Singh Dhoni revered by the Chennai Super Kings faithful. Amid the tumultuous existence of the Indian Premier League franchise over the past 11 years, the former India captain has been a constant source of inspiration for the team that has enjoyed remarkable consistency in the tournament.

 
 
 
 Dhoni, who has been at the helm of   ever since the inauguration of the tournament in 2008, has helped them triumph twice and finish runners-up on four other occasions. He was also the captain of the Rising Pune Supergiant in 2016 when CSK were suspended from the league for a couple of years and was an able ally to skipper Steve Smith when they reached the final in 2017.
 
 
 
 
 
 Given this enviable track-record, CSK’s loyalists would already be looking forward to another summit clash as their side prepares to take on Sunrisers Hyderabad in Qualifier 1 at the Wankhede Stadium on Tuesday evening. And, they have reasons to justify their confidence: CSK have beaten the Hyderabad outfit on both occasions that they have met in the league stage this season and have an overall advantage of 6-2 in eight clashes.
 
 
 
 
 
 While CSK escaped to a four-run win, defending 182/3, when the two teams met in Hyderabad on April 22, Dhoni and Co. romped to a comprehensive eight-wicket victory, chasing 180, when the duo clashed in Pune on May 13. To complicate matters,   have lost their last three clashes.
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 As astute a leader as Dhoni is, he is up against a counterpart who has been mighty impressive, having taken over the reins from Australia’s David Warner, who is currently undergoing suspension for his misdemeanours in South Africa. Kane Williamson is one of the finest batsmen today, but few expected the New Zealander to lead the 2016   champions with such conviction this year. He is the only foreign skipper this season, yet he is easily among the most competent.
 
 What’s more, the batsman, who is known for classical stroke-play has left many an observer surprised with the quality of his shot-making in the shortest version of the game. Williamson has amassed 661 runs @ 60.09 in 14 games and notched up as many as eight half-centuries. He has also marshalled his bowling resources magnificently, and his leadership skills came to fore especially on the four occasions when his side defended modest totals.
 
 Dhoni, too, has struck a purple patch, notching up 446 runs at a mighty impressive average of 89.2. The 36-yearold has time and again proved why he has been considered the game’s best finisher for a better part of the past decade. In the process, Dhoni has also ensured that the efforts of Ambati Rayudu (586 runs @ 45.07) and Suresh Raina (391 runs @39.1) have had a strong impact in the final analysis.
 
 Rayudu, in particular, was in terrific form in both the games against SRH hammering 79 and an unbeaten 100. Having been part of the Mumbai Indians squad previously, he knows the Wankhede track well and could prove dangerous if he gets going again. The Aussie veteran Shane Watson too has rediscovered his touch and has contributed 438 runs @ 33.69, batting at the top of the order.
 
 Pace bowler Shardul Thakur (14 wickets) and all-rounder Dwayne Bravo (11 wkts) have been CSK’s leading wicket takers. Another paceman, Deepak Chahar, enjoyed fruitful outings against SRH in both their meetings taking 3/15 and 1/16, so he will be a difficult customer to contend with.
 
 SRH, meanwhile, have largely depended on Williamson’s outstanding form along with the performance of their bowlers and it will be interesting to see what the likes of pacemen Siddharth Kaul (17 wkts), Bhuvneshwar Kumar (8 wkts) and leg-spinner Rashid Khan (16 wkts) have in store for the opponents. To the relief of SRH, opener Shikhar Dhawan (437 runs @ 43.7) too is back in form with scores of 50, 18, 79 and 92 not out in his previous four knocks.
 
 
