JAIPUR:  , Om Birla’s former private secretary Mahendra Gautam has filed a case at a   court in Jaipur accusing the   leader of amassing disproportionate income and possessing benami properties worth several crores of rupees.

 The petition said, the MP spent about Rs 20 crore for destination wedding of his daughter at Amby Valley in Pune two years back. He had purchased about thousands of acres of land in proxy names, alleged the petition.
 
 Om Birla, while talking to TOI over phone said, “Gautam had earlier made similar complaints to   and at R K Puram police station but were found to be false.
 
 “Let an inquiry be conducted by investigative agency and truth will come out.” He also denied owning any benami property. 
 
 The petition said, the MP from Kota while contesting the 2014 parliamentary election, had disclosed that he had total property including of his wife worth Rs 2 crore at the prevailing market price.
 
 But the petition said it is only a fraction of the wealth he amassed over the years.
 
 In his daughter marriage held in January 16, 2016, he had reportedly spent over Rs 20 crore. The marriage was a destination wedding at Amby Vally in Pune, said A K Jain counsel for the petitioner. 
 
 The expenses incurred for various functions before the marriage held in  , including printing cards, transportation of the guests to Pune is to the tune of Rs 2 crore. The expenses incurred at Amby Valley is Rs 5.60 crore.
 
 He said in order to convert his black money in to white he had distributed cash to many of his acquaintances and got the money returned as gifts through cheques. He said all the accounts of the marriage were handled by him and the dairy entry was signed by his wife Dr Anita Birla. He had given as gifts worth Rs 11 crore in cash and jewelry worth several lakhs.
 
 The petitiion said Om Birla owns thousands of acres of land at different places in benami names. Hundreds of acres of land were in the names of tea stall owners and people living in slums. Another proxy is Rajendra Agarwal and his relatives, the petition alleged.
 
 
