HYDERABAD: At a time when students from   are securing top positions in competitive engineering exams, colleges have failed to impress in national rankings. Poor quality and competence of faculty, lack of accreditation, research and outreach activities has left engineering colleges in the state far behind in the race.

 
 With the admission process for engineering courses set to begin by May-end, there are only a handful of local colleges in top ranks under the Ministry of Human Resource Development’s National Institutional Ranking Framework this year.
 
 
 
  
 
 
 While institutes such as Indian Institute of Technology, Hyderabad, International Institute of Information Technology, Jawaharlal Nehru Technological University and University College of Engineering, Osmania University figured in the top 100 slot, there
 
 are only five other engineering colleges which have found place in the 151-200 band.
 
 Experts say lack of quality research by faculty members, filing of patents, outreach programmes and industry exposure such as internship and placement for students, are the parameters under which most Telangana colleges fail.
 
 “The quality and competence of the faculty members is poor in Telangana. Only five per cent of faculty members are involved in research work. Innovation and best practices are also missing. If the colleges improve the teaching and learning process there are chances that they figure in the rankings,” said DN  , former vice-chancellor of JNTUH. He said it’s the faculty and research that make the difference between best and mediocre institutes.
 
 Apart from this, absence of outreach programmes in engineering colleges is also cited as one of the major reasons. “Most colleges are only restricted to day-to-day academic activities. They do not undertake extra-curricular activities including student skill enhancement programmes, faculty development programmes which affects their overall performance,” said  , former registrar of JNTUH, who served as the convenor of engineering, agriculture and medical common entrance test for almost a decade.
 
 Rankings for the past few years too paint a grim picture. While there are over 200 affiliated engineering colleges in Telangana, the MHRD ranking in 2017 and 2016 reveals that only 12 colleges secured spots in the top 200 list. While some colleges retained their previous year’s place, a few others such as the   dropped in ranks.
 
 JNTUH officials claim that colleges are yet to upgrade to a level where they apply for these rankings.
 
 “Even though colleges are upgrading themselves every year, many are still not applying for rankings. Majority colleges just maintain consolidated information about their staff and performance stay wary of such rankings,” said N  , registrar of JNTUH and Eamcet convenor.
 
