PUNE: As a matter of principle, Neil MacGregor has never worked in museums that charge entry fee to its visitors. He believes that art should be accessible to all, so much so that he even declined an offer from the Metropolitan Museum in New York.

 “I know that most Indian museums charge a fee, and I believe that should not be the case. However, it is for Indian politicians to decide. And, we also need to recognize that a museum needs to be well-funded, so that it is well-run,” MacGregor remarked.
 
 He was speaking at an event organized by the Symbiosis School of Liberal Arts in collaboration with the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Vastu Sangrahalay — the erstwhile Prince of Wales museum — in Mumbai, at a special exhibition of shared artefacts and telling a story over a timeline. The   is one of the partners who have lent exhibits to the facility.
 
 MacGregor is a veteran as far as curating art and artefacts are concerned. He has been the director of both National Gallery and British Museum — the flagship conservation institutions of the   that are publicly funded. He is also responsible for the practice of sharing the museum collection with other countries. He was instrumental in the UK lending the Cyrus Cylinder to a Tehran museum in 2012, which originated from the Mesopotamian civilization, considered the first ever human rights edict. Nearly a million people viewed the exhibit in Tehran.
 
 He left the British Museum in 2015 and is currently busy setting up the Humboldt Forum in Berlin, a museum coming up within the refurbished Berlin Palace. In his current India project, he has managed to bring in a painting by Rembrandt of the Mughal emperor Jahangir, and a Portuguese illustration of an Indian rhinoceros, the only one Europeans knew of till as late as the 1930s. These are among the 124 exhibits on display.
 
 “This project is to evoke inter-cultural dialogue. The exhibition has been termed India and the World and the artefacts are both about how India viewed the world and how the world thought of India in the same historical period. And, while there are cultural differences across the world, humans have always strived for the same thing. For example, all the regions in the world have potteries. All civilizations have attempted to codify laws and proclamations. The manners have been slightly different across cultures, but the traditions still remain. If you look at Chinese inscriptions, they have always tried to portray the One China principle, by codifying the characters. It continued to this day,” MacGregor explained.
 
 In his years of studying Indian inscriptions, he has noticed that emperors have come and gone since Ashoka and governments have turned from colonial to democratic, but Ashokan principles have been a constant, even in the Indian constitution.
 
 “History has been full of wars and Ashoka waged many of them. But then he asserted his authority by his edicts on various monuments all over his empire, in multiple languages, telling people how to behave, while maintaining distance from all religions. And B R Ambedkar’s principles were similar when he wrote the Constitution. It is fascinating how traditions stay on,” he remarked during his lecture.
 
 MacGregor is popular because of his radio and TV shows, his programmes on history, religion, and even Shakespearean studies, reaching almost the same level of recognition as Bill Nye’s in science popularization.
 
 “The young need to be educated in art and history. In India, it starts at home because of the vast religious mythology and history, much of which is visual. For example, most children in the Hindu households know about Lord Ganesha. Similarly, in Muslim households, the calligraphy of Arabic in the Quran and other texts play a big part. That is how the art   can take form, so that they grow up to appreciate it,” MacGregor smiled.
 
