MOHALI: The water samples of the Sewerage Treatment Plant ( ) water tank in forest hill golf and country club resort in  , from where the body of Chandigarh Transport Undertaking ( ) employee Abhishek Guleria, was recovered before being dumped on Pinjore–Baddi road, will be collected by police and handed over to the forensic department. The mud samples from near the water tank, where the body was later dumped, will also be picked by police, said police sources.

 It was added that the forensic department in a communiqué to   police has demanded the water and mud samples. A senior officer of Mohali police said, “We will be collecting the water samples from STP water tank and mud samples where the body was left near the STP water tank as well as where it was finally dumped on Pinjore-Baddi road. The idea is to get a perfect picture of the crime scene.”
 
 Mohali police is however yet to ascertain the exact cause of Abhishek’s death. He was found dead on March 25 and had gone missing since March 13. According to police sources, four employees of forest hill golf and country club resort were intercepted while returning after allegedly dumping the body of the victim near Basol village on Pinjore-Baddi road.
 
 The three accused, Gurvinder Singh Bains, Balwinder Singh and Tarsem Chand, during their interrogation confessed about that they disposed of the body on behest of Lt Col Sandhu. It was added that the three also confessed that they had fished out the body from STP water tank. After that police ‘nominated’ Sandhu in the FIR and issued him summons under Section 160 of the CrPC for recording of his statement before police by March 28. However, Sandhu failed to appear.
 
 On March 28, Punjab Director General of Police (DGP) Suresh Arora constituted a Special Investigation Team (SIT) to probe the death case of CTU employee Abhishek Guleria. The SIT will be headed by inspector General of Police (IG) (crime)  , assistant inspector general of police (AIG) and Mohali SSP Kuldeep Singh Chahal.
 
 On the other hand, a delegation of World Wide Immigration Consultancy Services (WWICS) led by director Rajiv Bajaj and advocate Raman Walia while questioning the credibility of Mohali police have demanded fair and free probe from CBI or some other independent agency.
 
 Raman Walia said police has named Sandhu under Section 302 of the IPC based on the statement of the three arrested accused without recording their statement under Section 164 of the CrPC.
 
 
