GURUGRAM: The city police seem to have made little progress in the investigation into the  , even six months after the misappropriations were unearthed and FIRs were registered in the case.

 Sources said none of the witnesses had spoken up or provided any help in the investigation. Thus recently, Gurgaon police commissioner   wrote to the   commissioner, seeking to know the procedure of tax payments. He has also further details on the property tax payments.
 
 “We have hit certain roadblocks in our investigation. Hence, we have sought clarity on the procedure of tax payments and some other aspects,” said Khirwar. He added that the police were exploring everything for foolproof investigation.
 
  
  
 MCG officials, when approached, said they had received the letter from the police and were working on the response.
 
 MCG commissioner V. Umashankar said the police commissioner had submitted a status report on the probe and sought more details. “What they have primarily told us that they have not got any verbal evidence against anyone till now. The police have also asked for clarity on the procedure of tax payments,” he added.
 
 Further, Umashankar said the MCG had already recovered tax dues from the owners of 84 properties while process was on to seal seven other properties, even as the police were carrying on their investigations into the scam. Three property owners have gone to court against the MCG move to recover dues.
 
 The alleged scam came to light in August last year when an FIR was filed at   police station, following a complaint by a zonal taxation officer of the MCG, in which initially six properties were mentioned for alleged tax evasion.
 
  Later, seven more properties were included in the complaint and another FIR was lodged at DLF 2 police station. Preliminary probe suggested these frauds took place between August 2015 and April 2017 and owners of around 100 commercial properties, in connivance with some civic officials, had been evading taxes. Subsequently, the civic body found out that a few of its employees had floated a fake website to lure people to get their taxes reduced. 
 
 These employees forged the signatures of senior MCG officials for this purpose, thus causing a loss of at least Rs 5 crore to the corporation.
 
 
