CHENNAI: The   government’s attempts to get immediate release of 15tmcft of   water did not yield a positive response from the Centre, with the ministry of water resources pointing to the proposed setting up of Cauvery Management Board in six weeks going by the   verdict. Of the 10.7lakh acres of long-term samba crop in the delta districts, only 4.65lakh acres have been harvested until Monday and the standing crop requires water.

 At a regional conference of southern states convened by Central Water Commission in Hyderabad on Tuesday, PWD secretary S K Prabakar took up the issue with   minister of state for water resources Arjun Ram Meghwal. “We sought the advice of the Centre to Karnataka to release water, but there was no positive response. They pointed out to the setting up of the board and said it could be raised there,” said a senior official. The Centre, however, assured a meeting of Krishna basin states, including Maharashtra, Karnataka, Telangana and Tamil Nadu to resolve the issues related to Krishna water supply. 
 
 While prevailing on the need to set up the board and regulation committee within six weeks, Tamil Nadu urged the Centre to restrain Karnataka from unilaterally executing lift irrigation scheme, and construction of reservoirs, anicuts across Cauvery and its tributaries without the concurrence of the co-basin states. Tamil Nadu also demanded that Karnataka not be allowed the construction of weir/structure at Shivasamudram and a reservoir at Mekedatu by Karnataka government and the construction of new projects/check dams by Kerala in Bhavani/Pambar rivers, to which the response was “board was coming,” sources said. The SC reduced the apportionment of Tamil Nadu by 14.75tmcft, considering the groundwater availability and need to release drinking water to Bengaluru.
 
 Government sources said the state also took up the festering inter-state disputes like restoration of power supply to Mullaperiyar dam, supply of water from Neyyar dam to Kanyakumari district and Parambikulam Aliyar projects involving Kerala government. “ Kerala again opposed the linking of Pamba-Achankovil-Vaippar river linking. The Centre recorded the statement that Tamil Nadu and Kerala were holding bilateral talks to thrash out the issues,” another official said. 
 
 
