Bengaluru: Since the start of the   more than a decade ago,   have both thrilled and disappointed fans and connoisseurs in equal measure. Despite being a team that’s brimming with talent, it hasn’t been able to come together as a trophy-winning unit. Last year,   finished at the bottom of the pile — only 12 months after making the final.

 
 
 “There have been situations in which we have been so helpless that we have come back to the change room laughing, knowing that we could never even think of experiencing something like this as a team,” skipper   reasoned on the lows of the 2017 season. “It can happen to one or two people, but all 11 thinking and feeling the same way, it’s very rare and a big learning curve for all of us.”
 
 The curve has been a never-ending one. RCB had come close to laying their hands on the elusive trophy thrice — in 2009, 2011 and 2016. But they fell short after showing plenty of character to get to the final. RCB have ticked enough boxes to make them title challengers every single season. Until 2014, when Kohli took over the captaincy, some of the biggest names in the sport — Rahul Dravid, Kevin Pietersen, Anil Kumble and Daniel Vettori — led the team with mixed success.
 
 After finishing fourth in 2010, they decided to build a new team during the 2011 auction as they let all their players go, barring Kohli. They brought Vettori, Chris Gayle (as replacement for Dirk Nannes in the first half of the season) and Ab De Villiers on board and the trio formed the core of a fairly formidable team. The players justified their billing as the team got to the final before losing by 58 runs to the Chennai Super Kings.
 
 From there on until the 2016 season — where they came from behind to storm into the final against Sunrisers Hyderabad —they kept faltering in crucial situations which affected their chances of victory.
 
 
 
 
 RCB have not always got it right at the auctions though. They have often been left disappointed by the performance of some of their expensive buys. In 2008, much was expected of South African ace Jacques Kallis, their most expensive player that season. He aggregated 199 runs in 11 matches — at an average of 18.09. Not surprisingly he was benched after 11 games in that season.
 
 Pietersen too had a similar run the next season. His appearances were limited to six games and he made a grand total of 93 runs. Yuvraj Singh, the big buy in 2014, coming at a staggering Rs 14 crore, averaged 19.07, his lowest in the  . Last season, the failure and fitness woes of Shane Watson, AB de Villiers and Chris Gayle let the team down badly.
 
 
 
 
 Kohli, de Villiers and Gayle were the fulcrum of the team’s campaign over the last three seasons. However, rarely has RCB’s middle-order risen to the occasion when the trio has failed. Inconsistency has hit their bowlers even harder. Significantly, in the years that RCB reached the final, their bowlers essayed a vital role. Kumble, R Vinay Kumar, Yuzvendra Chahal, Watson and Samuel Badree (with a hattrick) have all shone, but in patches.
 
 
 
 
 Soon after last season’s failings, RCB’s think-tank broke down their failures into smaller, easier-to-see pictures. The result: They decided to rely heavily on data and technology at the 2018 mega auction. With their cutting edge methods, they appear to have struck the right balance between bat and ball.
 
 Kohli, back from a month-long break, will look to undo the mistakes of the past and in de Villiers,   and Quinton de Kock, he has an enviable toporder with Manan Vohra, Mandeep Singh and Parthiv Patel offering stability in the middle. While it is important for the batsmen to come good, managing the bowling unit will be a challenge for Kohli.
 
 They have a well-rounded spin department with both Chahal and the young Washington Sundar in form, but will need the pace battery of Chris Woakes, Umesh Yadav and Navdeep Saini to deliver.
 
 It also augurs well for the team that they have invested in domestic fast bowlers like Saini and Kulwant Khejroliya apart from having the foreign expertise of Tim Southee and Mooen Ali at their disposal.
 
 Yet again, RCB have lined up a winning squad, but their form and fitness will have to be collectively in place for them to lay their hands on the trophy.
 
 
