GAYA: Union tourism secretary Rashmi Verma inspected the ongoing development work being executed under   (Heritage City Development and Augmentation Yojana) on Tuesday.

 Accompanied by joint secretary in the tourism ministry Suman Billa, Verma is on a two-day tour to Gaya and Bodh Gaya. Gaya is the only city of the state to have been included in the list of heritage cities that include Varanasi, Ajmer and Dwarka.
 
 Under Hriday, development schemes worth Rs 34.69 crore are to be executed and the sites selected for the purpose include Vishnupad temple and Akshay Vat, two of the most important ‘vedis’ (altars), where ‘pindadaan’ rituals for the salvation of souls are performed. The final rituals are performed at ‘Akshay Vat’ where a priest certifies the successful performance of the salvation rituals.
 
 One of the projects undertaken under the heritage city development scheme pertains to the renovation, cleaning and proper conservation of ‘Vaitarni’- the pond where a dip ensures freedom from the cycle of re-birth and salvation, believe the devotees. Vaitarni, besides suffering encroachments, also stands polluted due to the inflow of neighbouring drains.
 
 According to sources, expressing dissatisfaction over the pace of execution of the development work, the tourism secretary directed the executing agency to ensure quality construction.
 
 Explaining the tardy implementation of Hriday, local officials attributed it to the reluctance of contractors to undertake the job. Sources said that tenders for the job was floated four times and there were no takers. After much difficulty, Gaya Municipal Corporation (GMC), the executing agency, managed to get a contractor. The project is unlikely to meet the October, 2018 deadline. Lack of cleanliness in the Vishnupad area was also noticed by the Union secretary, said sources.
 
 A pathway is also to be constructed on the western flank of Falgu river and the pathway would be broad enough to facilitate the movement of four wheelers.
 
 Verma also visited Bodh Gaya. The official, while expressing satisfaction with the internal maintenance of the shrine, expressed unhappiness with the overall sanitary condition prevailing in the Bodh Gaya township. “Much needs to be done to make the place tourist-friendly,” the official remarked.
 
 
