NEW DELHI: The   has filed a fresh case against National Spot Exchange Limited (NSEL) scam accused Jignesh  , former chairpersons of Forward Market Commission Bishnu Khatua and Anand Kumar Bhat, and some others, charging them with facilitating nationwide exchange status for the Multi-Commodity Exchange (MCX) in 2003. 

 
 Shah was managing director of MCX when the alleged irregularities took place. Apart from the two former FMC chairmen, two erstwhile members,   (who was chairman for a short while) and Rajeev Kumar Aggarwal, were also named. Then MCX deputy MD Joseph Massey and FMC ex-deputy director Vishal Nair have also been named, the CBI said. 
 
 The FMC, which was part of the department of consumer affairs at that time, has now been merged with the Securities and Exchange Board of India. On Friday, CBI teams carried out searches at the offices of Shah and others at nine locations in Mumbai, Gwalior and Shimla. The accused are alleged to have aided MCX get nationwide multi-commodity exchange status even though it did not fulfil the stipulated criteria. 
 
 “Shah and FTIL (Financial Technologies India Ltd, which was the promoter) illegally retained shares beyond the permissible limit of 26%, deriving wrongful gain of Rs 137 crore by selling 26 lakh excess shares at the rate of Rs 1,032 per share,” an official said.
 
 Refuting the allegations, a spokesperson for 63 Moons (earlier called FTIL) said, “The search by the CBI on Friday was in connection with the matter of permission granted to MCX in 2003. We find this surprising because the permission was granted 15 years ago when the country did not have a pan-India commodity exchange.” The spokesperson said permission to set up a nationwide commodity exchange was not granted to MCX alone but also to three other entities — NCDEX, NMCE and N-BOT. 
 
 “Thereafter, 63 Moons took MCX to the level of being the number one commodity exchange in India and number three in the world,” he said, adding that the company was forced to exit MCX in 2014 and all documents related to the permission were with MCX. “Despite this, the search is being conducted on us and our chairman emeritus (Jignesh Shah),” the spokesperson said. 
 
 He claimed that during the searches at Shah’s residence on Friday morning, CBI did not find a single incriminating material and/or document. “The agencies are being misled by vested interests who are trying to divert attention from the truth getting established and prejudice the minds of investigating agencies and ongoing judicial matters. However, we have faith in the judiciary and believe that truth shall prevail,”' he said.
 
