Jaipur: Even one year after the implementation of Real Estate Regulatory Authority ( ) in the state, the Rajasthan Housing Board (RHB) which is infamous for poor quality flats remains out of its radar.

 The RHB has failed to register its projects with the regulatory authority till date. According to RERA officials, there are more than 35 projects of RHB in the state. However, not more than five projects have been registered with RERA as RHB failed to deposit the complete documents.
 
 In absence of registration, consumers cannot register complaints against the RHB houses as it has not uploaded the complete documents on the RERA website. As per the mandatory provisions, the developers have to register themselves on RERA website. Once details of all the ongoing projects are uploaded on the website, the aggrieved consumers can register their complaints at RERA office.
 
 Ganesh Singh Rawat, who is waiting for a lower income group (LIG) house in Indira Nagar sector-9 scheme, alleged, “In 2015, I was among the successful allottees. It’s been three years and I am waiting for possession, however, the RHB has missed deadline several times. If projects were registered under RERA, the consumers at least know from where to seek justice,” he said.
 
 The RERA officials too are showing extra generosity towards the government agency and not taking strict action. Under RERA Act, developers and agents were provided 90 days to register after the RERA Act came into effect on May 1 in the state.
 
 An official informed TOI, the RERA has issued certificates to over 600 projects in the state after registering them under the Act.
 
 Earlier, during the scrutiny it was witnessed that developers of nearly 200 ongoing projects did not submitted complete documents. The developers were provided with 30 days times to submit documents. However, it’s been one year, the RERA is taking no strict action against RHB, while many consumers are facing inconvenience due to poor quality construction work and delay in possession.
 
 A senior official at RERA said, “We are not taking action or imposing penalty on RHB has they have submitted their documents. The process has started and entire projects would be registered with RERA soon.”
 
 The delay was also witnessed as RHB made necessary amendment in RHB, disposal act.
 
 
