Former  , actor and a popular choice for showstopper by many designers,   was in Bengaluru recently for a   event. We caught up with her on the sidelines of the show, where she spoke about short films, fashion off the screen and her love for the ramp. Pooja says, “I come to Bengaluru, but not as often as I would like to. I have a lot of friends in Bengaluru too, which is one of the reasons why. I love this city and the weather, especially since I was here right around the time when the weather was so pleasant.”
 
  She is currently filming for a family entertainer alongside  , and also has two short films in the pipeline. About short films as a medium, she says, “It has become a good medium to reach out to people. As we know it people do not have a lot of time on their hands and they are always on the move. So, if you give them something substantial and of quality with good concepts that only takes 10-15 minutes of their time, then it makes sense.”
  
  Pooja has previously done a Tamil film. When quizzed if she will do more films in the   and if that fascinates her, she says, “I do get some offers from the south, but nothing has been that interesting that has made me look southwards and accept it. Until that happens, I will be visiting Bengaluru lesser.”
  
  But what Pooja does have an opinion about and looks at quite seriously is fashion and dressing up. “Now, even when I have to go to the store right under my building, I have to think 10 times as to what I would have to wear. I know there will be at least three people out of 20 who would want to take a selfie and they will post it and then I will end up getting trolled. ‘OMG! She is not wearing makeup’, ‘Look at those shoes’, ‘Look at those shorts’ and that’s why I send my maid or my driver to get things for me now! But yes, people have become so fashion conscious today and we are in the public eye all the time. It is a huge amount of pressure on us. I just request everyone ‘Guys, just be easy on us, we’re humans’ (laughs),” she says.
  
  But, does she miss her modelling days and the time on the ramp. “I don’t miss the ramp as much. I would have missed it had I not been walking, but this is my second show in a month. So I am not missing the ramp as much and I am getting to enjoy the best parts of both worlds — both in front of the camera and on the ramp,” she adds gleefully.
