SALEM: Amid multiple theories being floated in connection with the death of five woodcutters from Salem district at Vontimitta in  , a man who was in the group has said they had jumped into a lake when they were chased by police.

 A Murugesan, 45, of Kerangkadu near Karumandurai, who is the only person in a group of 40 woodcutters to return home, told TOI that they had been held captive by touts and smugglers. It was when they were escaping from captivity that they were chased by police.
 
 “A task force team in a jeep found us hiding and informed their colleagues who too came to the spot within a few minutes. They warned us to surrender. Terrified, we all jumped into the lake,” Murugesan said. He managed to escape as he knew swimming. He thought the others too had escaped. “Only on Monday, when I reached Kerangkadu, I learnt that five villagers were found dead in the lake,” he added.
 
 He said he had travelled through   and   districts to reach Kerangkadu. He urged the district administration and police to save his fellow villagers who were still in Andhra Pradesh.
 
 
 
 
 He said he had travelled through Vellore and Thiruvannamalai districts to reach Kerangkadu. He urged the district administration and police to save his fellow villagers who were still in Andhra Pradesh.
 
 Murugesan said 70 people from Kerangkadu,   and   villages had gone to Andhra Pradesh 20 days ago to work in farms. “The touts who approached us did not tell anything about cutting red sanders,” he said. When they reached Andhra Pradesh, they were asked to chop down red sanders.
 
 “They told us that they would give Rs 600/kg as wages. But we refused,” Murugesan said.
 
 “We requested the touts to allow us to return home. We told them that we did not want to meet the fate of 20 men who were shot dead in the Seshachalam forest near   in Andhra Pradesh. But the touts refused to release us,” he added.
 
 Murugesan said the touts along with red sanders smugglers locked them in a godown without any food. “We were there for more than 10 days. Denied food and water, many of us swooned,” he said.
 
 Forty of us managed to escape on Friday. “We got separated in groups while passing through the forest area near Vondimitta in   district,” he said.
 
 Back home after the ordeal he went through, Murugesan said he would never go outside his village for work.
 
 When contacted by TOI, Salem collector Rohini R Bhajibhagare said she did not have any information about villagers being held captive in Andhra Pradesh police. She promised to look into the issue. She said she would visit Kerangkadu and Keelaavarai on Wednesday to hand over the solatium of Rs3 lakh each to the families of the victims. “During my visit, I will ask the villagers what they actually need,” she said.
 
 
