Love knows no reason or form and of course, no species as well. Pet lovers in Mumbai have been showing their immense love for their pets by going through the tedious process of getting a   done. 

 Tattoo artists say that a pet tattoo takes a lot of time to complete. The perfect picture of the pet is required first, and then that prtait is inked into the skin of the owner. This trend of getting a tattoo done has taken pet lovers by storm.
 
 Sunny Bhanushali, tattoo artist says, “Pet owners have been coming to us with the pictures of the favourite pets in the last couple of months. We create the exact picture with ink on their bodies. Photo-realistic tattoos are a little difficult to do but it means the world to the person who is getting it done.”
 
 This season is all about showing your love and that is just what   are upto. Tattoo artist   says, “Showing love for their pets via tattoos has been there, but during the   month (February) we see an increase in the number of people who come in to get some kind of a pet-related tattoo done. Of course there are other love sign related tattoos too, but a tattoo that reminds them of their pet is becoming big these days.”
 
 She says that she has had clients who just get paw prints. “I had a client who loved her cat a lot but was scared of getting a big tattoo done. So we just did paw prints for her at her wrist. It was just four little paws and she was ecstatic.” Another tattoo artist   recently created a portrait of a dog on the arm of his owner. The beautifully done portrait was then inscribed with the words, ‘Those who teach the most about humanity aren’t always humans’.
 
 Tattoo artist Sunny says, “I recently had a 28-year-old client (name witheld) who has a black labrador retriever, named Nawab. The dog is around 12 years old already and his owner knows that he will pass on soon as he has been keeping unwell for a while now. The young client came to us to get Nawab’s portrait inked on his arm. He knew he was about to lose him any day and so on Valentine’s day got a picture of his pet tattooed on his arm. And he got this one done to celebrate his love for him and to preserve his memory after the dog passes away. The bond that Nawab and his owner share is beautiful.”
 
 Sneha Maheshwri has got a black and white portrait of her dog on her shoulder. It means the world to her. Talking about it she says, “I have got the tattoo of my pet, Tango, on my arm. I got it done after I lost him to an attack by some stray dogs. For me, it was a way of reassuring myself that Tango is always close to me. He is not only alive in my memories, but etched on my body as well. And he will stay this way, till my last day.” 
 
 
 
 Of course, the ‘forever’ kind of love will not go out of style. So, couple and matching tattoos are in vogue too. It is easy to profess love for another by saying, ‘I do’, but it takes a lot to get that ‘forever’ love inked on to your body to show that you’ll stay with your partner forever. 
 
 
  
 
 Couple tattoos are for those who want to wear their hearts, literally, on their sleeves. Tattoo artists Vikas and   say that there are couples who even opt to ink their wedding date in various fonts — Roman numbers and motifs to cherish and remember their big day for the rest of their lives. 
 
 Mickey says, “Another trend is get matching feathers inked on your wrists or your legs, wherever you fancy! We have seen couples getting love quotes inked on their torsos, one half of the quote on one partner, and the other half on the other, so the quote is complete only when they come together. One can also get the ‘Queen of Hearts’ and the ‘King of Hearts’ inked on your shoulders. 
 
 Then, we have a list of simple matching tattoos, like an anchor and a wheel, an arrow and a heart, lock and key, ‘soul’ and ‘mate,’ two words written on two different people, and some sexy, geometric designs that connect the two.”
 
 
