JALANDHAR: Indian American lawyer  , who was elected first   of Hoboken city in New Jersey some three months ago, has acknowledged he and his family are facing death threats after an unidentified man left a bag in his office in his office.

 Days before his election, Bhalla was linked with “terrorism” in a slanderous flyer. Hoboken police department said it has taken the incident with incredible seriousness and the FBI’s   has also evaluated the City Hall.
 
 A statement on the official website of the   revealed that the police department was investigating the incident which occurred on Thursday night and this also quoted Bhalla disclosing death threats to him and his family.
 
 “A male individual entered City Hall through the Newark Street entrance just before 8 pm on Thursday, February 15, 2018. The person went through metal detectors and told security officers that he was going to use the restroom. At the time, the only person in the mayor’s office was deputy chief of staff Jason Freeman. Mayor Bhalla was on his way to the office following a community meeting. From his office, Mr Freeman observed that a bag with an object had been thrown in the direction of the administrative assistant’s desk and made eye contact with the individual. The individual then ran out of the mayor’s office. Mr Freeman called the police, which are currently investigating the incident,” added the statement.
 
 “This incident, along with death threats to me and my family, is an unfortunate reminder that we need to take security seriously,” said Bhalla. “The Joint Terrorism Task Force has evaluated City Hall, and we have been working to implement their recommendations for physical and procedural changes to improve security for all employees in the building,” he added.
 
 “We take incidents like these incredibly seriously and will continue working to ensure the security of the mayor and everyone who visits City Hall,” said Hoboken police chief Kenneth Ferrante.
 
 Bhalla, an attorney and civil rights activist, had earlier served serving as a councilman on the city council. However, during the run-up to the election, slanderous flyers were spotted on the car windshields on which “Don’t let TERRORISM take over our town” was printed above Bhalla’s photograph. “A potential conflict of interest that could cost Hoboken taxpayers millions” was printed along with the photograph, leading to a major controversy.
 
 
