KOLKATA: Probing into the   muddle, the   has sent a summon to former finance minister P Chidambaram’s wife Nalini, asking her to appear before the Kolkata office during second week of May.

 
  had earlier moved the Madras High Court challenging the summon issued by the ED on September 7, 2016 arguing that under section 160 of the Code of Civil Procedure a woman could not be summoned by the police. The Madras High Court, however, dismissed the petition last month.
 
 Nalini, who was the legal advisor of Saradha accused Manoranjana Sinh, had been summoned first by the ED in 2015 but she had sent her representative to the agency’s office. In its sixth supplementary chargesheet in the Saradaha scam, the   had mentioned her as someone privy to certain information on the controversial channel deal, not as an accused or witness.
 
 Nalini’s name first cropped up in the purported letter from Saradha boss   to CBI in April 2013, where it was claimed that she had been paid from Saradha accounts. An SFIO report on the Saradha muddle claimed that Nalini was the sole arbitrator of the deal signed between Sudipta Sen and Manoranjana Sinh in 2010.
 
 In the reports, investigators claimed that Nalini was paid Rs 65.85 lakh between June 2010 and September 2012. But the TDS filed by the Saradha group showed a payment of Rs 1.5 crore to her from March-June 2011. A TDS of Rs 15 lakh was deducted from that, said sources.
 
 Central investigating agency sources said during questioning Manoranjana claimed that the MoU and agreement between Saradha and GNN India were drafted by NC Associates in Chennai as Nalini was looking after her corporate affairs.
 
 The SFIO report claimed that she was “seemingly” paid for her professional services as lawyer. During investigation, Saradha boss told investigators that he believed that Nalini’s “presence, her name and her fame in the world” had given him the “confirmation that everything will be correctly executed”. The Saradha boss had told her that a Trinamool Congress MP and Saradha vice-president Somnath Dutta could give her “an appraisal report” of the company.
 
 
