Chennai: Activist investor Elliott Management has sold its entire stake in tech major Cognizant. According to the latest holdings information filed by the fund with the US SEC (Securities and Exchange Commission) on May 15, Cognizant does not figure in the list. Elliott Management held 1.12 million shares at the end of Q4 (October-December). In 2016, the investor disclosed it had a 4% stake in the company when its shares were trading at around $50 a piece on the Nasdaq. On Tuesday, the stock closed at $75.46. The share touched its highest of $85.10 in the last one year. Elliott Management also sent a letter to Cognizant asking them to make several changes including returns billions of dollars to its shareholders after which a co-operation agreement was entered into between both parties. Cognizant complied with Elliott’s demands, committing $3.4 billion in share repurchases and dividends over two years; embracing automation, rationalising staff and shifting focus towards digital business. It also brought in changes in the board based on Elliott’s demands. Peter Bendor Samuel, CEO, Everest Research group, says an Elliott exit would be welcomed by Cognizant. “Elliott’s demands to raise (profit) margins have created an unhelpful constraint on Cognizant at a time where margin flexibility is necessary to invest in the new digital business models. However, the damage is already done and Cognizant has already committed to the street that it will raise margins and so must follow through on the promise,” he said. “On the bright side, this will provide more flexibility to Cognizant who will no longer have this activist shareholder holding their feet to the fire,” Samuel said. “This may also have some trickle-down effect on the rest of the industry if it signals that the activist investors are turning their attention elsewhere and give management teams more maneuverability to navigate the expensive and difficult pivot to the new digital models,” he said. Phil Fersht, CEO and chief analyst at HfS Research says no tears will be shed within Cognizant's leadership ranks to see the back of Elliott Management. “Cognizant is pursuing an aggressive M&A strategy with a strong focus on digital and AI (artificial intelligence)—the firm grew up with ambitious leadership always looking to stay ahead of the curve, and Elliott was holding back the firm from taking calculated risks. Now is the time to invest in the emerging digital services model, not to squeeze margins and get pulled into a commoditising rat race,” Fersht said. Queries sent to Elliott Management went unanswered. Cognizant declined to comment.