CHENNAI: His work behind the camera brought us closer to the majestic   hills, albeit through the silver screen, in the 2011 flick ‘Azhagarsamiyin Kuthirai’.

 But ask cinematographer ‘Theni’   if the hill hid any traps to snare unsuspecting visitors, he said that it depends on how trekkers respected the terrain.
 
 “This is not the first time I have heard of forest fire in the   range (Kurangani hills is a part of this range),” said the Bodinayakkanur native.
 
 The trekkers slipped into trouble due to their lack of experience on hilly terrain, he said. “Even for a local, it would be tough to ascertain the wind direction and how quick the forest fire was spreading. I believe they (trekkers) had very little time to react. If inexperience was a problem, then they should have avoided climbing the hills in the first place considering a fire was already going around in the range,” he said.
 
 In 2010, Eswar spent several days atop the hills shooting for the aforementioned film. The viewpoints were so majestic that the film’s director,  , was sold on the location the moment Eswar introduced it to him. “There is a point which offers the view of entire Kozhukkumalai range and the town below. It would appear like blanketed hills and we can see till a distance of 15 km,” he said.
 
 Just as the lead character of the movie, horses and donkeys are an integral part of the livelihood of the local residents on these hills. “In fact, these trekking trails were formed by villagers and their donkeys walking on them. This is the reason why the trail is not linear. It follows a zig-zag pattern,” he said.
 
 This is also where city dwellers and amateur trekkers needed to have been careful, Eswar said. “Our city lifestyle doesn’t permit us to be healthy. The trail on Kurangani hills is slippery and sometimes has loose soil. I believe that this could have hampered the efforts of many who wanted to run away from the fire,” he said.
 
 Eswar was also puzzled to read reports which suggested that the trekkers made their way atop the hills without a permit. “It was difficult to obtain clearance from the government for us to shoot our film. A forest officer was present all the time and they did not let us bring more than 25 men to the shoot. I don’t know how they (trekkers) managed to slip the foresters’ eye,” Eswar saidHis work
 
 
