LUCKNOW: A day after CM Aditya Nath Yogi’s inspection of   in the city and instructions to keep them clean, most shelter homes were found in  ,  , no water supply in kitchen and waste dumped in rooms.

 TOI did a reality check of shelter homes in Gomtinagar, Daliganj, Laxman Mela Ground, Kaiserbagh, Charbagh, Aminabad etc. on Thursday.
 
 In many shelter homes, beds were laid without bedsheets and those that were covered were dirty and stained. Even the rooms had thick layers of dust and waste dumped in corners. In some, it seemed the premises had not been cleaned for days.
 
 Laxman Mela Ground shelter home had no toilets.
 
 This, when LMC has been making tall claims about making the city open defecation free by March 2018.
 
 The toilet in Jia Mau shelter-home was so dirty that it was stinking from outside the main gate.
 
 In Aminabad, the shelterhome didn’t have electricity in washroom. In rest other homes, the bathrooms were muddy and dirty.
 
 Though the CM has instructed to provide bed sheets and blankets in all shelterhomes, those of Charbagh and Jia Mau had beds without sheets and blankets.
 
 There was no drinking water-supply in any of shelter-homes. In Aminabad, the NGO running the shelter-home is even charging Rs 10 per head for providing blanket, bed and a water bottle. There were also no guards found at Lakshman Mela and Kaiserbagh shelter-home for maintenance.
 
 
 
 
 
 Sunshine during the day on Thursday brought some relief from the biting cold prevailing for the past three days but icy winds continued unabated in the city.
 
 Similar conditions will prevail on Friday and Saturday. However, situation would improve gradually and bright sunshine is expected on Monday.
 
 Despite sunshine, the maximum temperature on Thursday was 16.5 degrees Celsius, four degree below normal, while the minimum temperature was 8.1 degrees Celsius, a degree above normal. Moderate winds cleared the thick fog which prevailed till morning.
 
 On Friday, sky would be mainly clear with moderate to dense fog in the morning and night. The maximum and minimum temperatures would be around 17 and 8 degrees Celsius, respectively.
 
 Weather office said that dry icy northwesterly winds coming from the snowfed mountains are lashing the state and are responsible for fog and intense cold. “The wind pattern is now changing from northwesterly to southeasterly. It will provide relief in coming days,” said Prof Dhruvsen Singh, climate monitoring cell, geology department, Lucknow University.
 
 State Met director JP Gupta said that the density of fog will decline gradually by Sunday.
 
 As a result, daytime temperatures will increase. However, night temperatures will fall. Similar situation will prevail in rest of the state.
 
 On Thursday, Muzaffarnagar was coldest in the state with lowest minimum temperature of 3.4 degrees Celsius, followed by Agra at 3.9 degrees Celsius. Day temperatures due to thick fog were also low at many places with Najibabad recording 10.5 degrees and Kheri 11degrees Celsius.
 
 
 
