SILCHAR: The state government plans on developing   as one of the 'Act East cities' and as a counter-magnet area to Guwahati. Besides decongesting Guwahati, the plan will also project Silchar at the forefront of the growing economic relations of the northeast with Bangladesh and   countries, through  , under the Centre's Act East Policy. 

 "Following a query sent to the Centre by a Silchar-based organisation, Dr Shyama Prasad Mookherjee Memorial Swartha Suraksha Parishad, Silchar will be developed as the second logistics hub in the northeast region, after Jogighopa (in Bongaigaon district)," Sazzad Alam, deputy secretary at the state government's Act East Policy affairs department, said.
 
 The plan is to develop Silchar as a regional connectivity hub - via roads, railway, riverway and airway. 
 
 It will be linked with the Asian trilateral highway node at Moreh in Manipur through the expressway via Imphal, Jiribam and Lakhipur. As the eastern terminal of the East-Wesi corridor, it will also be connected to the Guwahati-Shillong-Dawki border-Chittagong expressway via the Jowai-Ladrumbai-Sonapur-Kalain corridor. It will be linked with Sylhet and Bangladesh to Kolkata via the Mainland India-Bangladesh-Northeast India (MI-B-NEI) Corridor. Through Katigora and Karimganj, it will be connected to   and to Kolkata through Bangladesh via the MI-B-NEI Corridor II. 
 
 To improve railway connectivity, broad-gauge rail lines have already been extended to Silchar from Lumding on the Guwahati-Dibrugarh line. The line will be linked to Bangladesh through the Agartala-Akhaura line, which is to be commissioned soon. Concept notes have also been prepared for restoring the historical rail linkage with Bangladesh through Karimganj and Mauvibazar, that used to carry goods from Assam to Chittagong Port. Railway connectivity will also be established to the border town of Moreh from Silchar through Lakhipur and Imphal.
 
 For riverine connectivity, the Silchar river port on the Barak river has been proposed. It will be linked to the Chittagong and Mongla ports of Bangladesh with the Kolkata port through the Barak, Surma, Kushiara, Meghna, Padma and Hooghly rivers, and the Bay of Bengal.
 
 Silchar airport at Kumbhirgram is going to be expanded soon into a regional air hub. Besides, a new airport for Silchar is also on the cards. 
 
 
