NEW DELHI: You might be aware about the   outside, but do you know that the   you inhale might be far worse? 

  
 
 
 
 
 A study by the   of   shows that poor ventilation and structural designs can trap   (VOCs), bioaerosols and particulate matter inside that can lead to various health ailments, including acute respiratory illnesses and impairment of lung function.
 
 
  
  
 
 The nearly five year-long research, conducted on 900 people across several households of varied income groups, pointed out that the high and low level groups were most vulnerable to respiratory diseases due to the lifestyle and design flaw of their houses.
 
 Chirashree Ghosh, associate professor, DU environmental science department, said it is difficult to measure the actual impact of indoor air pollution owing to an absence of indoor air policy in the country.
 
 “The study aims to bust the myth that the air quality indoors is safe. In fact, it could be even worse because the outside pollutants gets trapped inside. In addition, there are several pollutants and sources indoors that can cause pollution levels to rise gradually, unless there is proper ventilation,” Ghosh told TOI.
 
 The research found that most houses had high volatile organic compounds — dust, radon, CO2 and high concentration of bioaerosols (organisms or dust that consists of pathogens, viruses, fungi, allergens and pollen).
 
 Poor ventilation was the primary source of indoor air pollution. “Using any form of spray or room freshener releases high amount of volatile organic compounds in the air, which stays for several weeks without proper ventilation. VOCs are carcinogenic and can cause long-term damage to people,” said Ghosh.
 
 The study found that in low-income households, the pollution levels were highest around evening when cooking begins and family members return home. For higher income households, mornings and nights were most polluted, Ghosh said, adding that the poor indoor air quality can lead to increased instances of chronic bronchitis, acute respiratory illnesses and impairment of lung function, among other hazards.
 
 The next phase of the study would focus on household structures within DU to analyse different sources of indoor pollution and components according to seasons. “The ministry of earth sciences has asked us to find the source and solution to the problem. We will look at five different types of structures within DU and analyse the architectural component and design that may be causing the problem,” said Ghosh.
 
