PHAGWARA: In the backdrop of continuing tension between   groups and right wing Hindu groups ever since the clash in Phagwara on April 13, a delegation of   from the town met state police chief DGP   and DGP (law and order) Hardeep Dhillon on Thursday. They called on the DGPs after two days after a delegation of a General Samaj Manch had met DGP Arora and complained against two Dalit leaders and shared their side of story.

 Sources claimed that on Tuesday, Manch leaders had mainly complained about Lok Insaaf Party leader Jarnail Nangal and Ambedkar Sena (Mool Niwasi) president Harbhajan Suman. They had also blamed the duo of fomenting trouble.
 
 On Thursday, Nangal and Suman both were part of the delegation of Dalit leaders from different groups and parties. They, in turn, blamed Shiv Sena and other right wing groups for the brewing trouble in the town.
 
 “We apprised the DGP that our Manch has nothing against Dalits and every community wanted peace in the city. We pointed out the role of Nangal and Suman and told that they were behind provocation leading to the clash. We pleaded that all those responsible for the clash should be brought to book from either side,” said a Manch leader who did not wish to be identified. They have been demanding the arrest of the two leaders openly.
 
 The eight-member delegation of Dalits also had a Muslim community member who told the top police brass that Shiv Sena and other right wing Hindu groups have been involved in almost each conflict in Phagwara. The delegation claimed that in 2014 and 2016, they had pelted stones on the local mosque and abused Muslims. Notably, in the 2016 when some Hindu groups had attacked a mosque, Sikhs and Dalit activists had come chased them away.
 
 When asked, Nangal confirmed the meeting and said that they just told the “truth about the situation in Phagwara”. He refused to divulge further details.
 
 However another Dalit leader who was part of the delegation, on the condition of anonymity revealed, “We told the top police brass that the issue was not between general category people and Dalits but between the right wing Hindu groups and Dalits. Some, Dalit leaders were being accused of indirectly helping the right wing groups and now they targeted Dalits with guns.”
 
 While both Nangal and Suman have been named in the FIR filed after the clash, Nangal has been consistently saying that he was actually called by police officials to resolve the issue after hoarding of “Sanvidhaan Chowk” was put up in Gol Chowk on April 13 late evening. He had said that he was talking with the officials when right wing groups triggered the clash.
 
 Suman was arrested on Monday in a different case of assault on Monday, for instigating the accused, but the case fell flat next day as complainant retracted from his statement against him and he was discharged from the case after which walked out of jail.
 
 Four leaders of right wing groups have already been arrested by the police including Bhartiya Janta Yuva Morcha (BJYM) president. Names of total five local leaders of RSS, BJP figure in the FIR pertaining to the clash.
 
 
