COIMBATORE: Mounting a strident attack on police for failing to prevent violence targeted at leaders of the saffron party, state   chief Tamilisai Sounderarajan said that soon   will bloom in Tamil Nadu.

 Leading a protest on Friday evening at the New Bus Stand here to condemn the attacks on BJP functionaries, Tamilisai alleged that the police have not arrested the real culprits behind the petrol bomb attack on BJP office in the city as well as torching of party district president Nandakumar’s car a few days ago.
 
 Upping the ante, the BJP leader said if there were even one more attack on BJP men, the perpetrators have to face the consequences. She alleged Coimbatore was fast turning into a haven for extremists and blamed the police for turning a blind eye. “There is no security for BJP functionaries. If police failed to contain the violence perpetrated against BJP leaders, the party would not remain a mute spectator,” she warned in her speech laced throughout with caustic remarks against police.
 
 In a remark, that is seen as a veiled attack on the ruling AIADMK, Tamilisai asked, “When paavigal (sinners) can rule the state, why not kaavigal(saffron clad people)? We will not stop until we capture power in the state.”
 
 Flanked by BJP leaders CP Radhakrishnan, SR Sekar and  , the party chief told the BJP cadres, who had gathered in large numbers, to be prepared to stage more protests to send a signal to the perpetrators of violence. Daring those who hurled petrol bombs to come out in the open and reveal their identity, Tamilisai said any number of bombs would not stop BJP cadres from achieving their goal of Ram Rajya. “Henceforth, no one can stop us from taking Ganesh Chaturthi processions through any street. Neither the government nor the police can stop us,” she said.
 
 Hitting out at DMK working president MK   for objecting the rath yatra, she said Stalin was scared of BJP’s growing influence in Tamil Nadu. “We are prepared to face the elections any time. Like Tripura, we will capture power in Tamil Nadu also. Hence Stalin is scared,” she said. 
 
 Police arrested BJP leaders including Tamilisai for staging the protest without permission. They were released later.
 
 
