A versatile actor who easily metamorphoses into the comedic Pappi in ' ' and the drunk on power Genda, in 'Dabangg 2' ---  's journey might have been a slow and steady one in Hindi cinema, but every role the actor has essayed has managed to grab eye balls. With his upcoming black comedy ' ' all set to hit the screen soon,   in a candid chat with Bombay Times talks about how he doesn't mind being stereotyped as a comic actor and the way he defines success is different from others. Excerpts...

 
 
 
 I used to feel that way when I wasn't getting work initially. Like they say, empty vessels make the most noise. But, now I don't feel that way anymore. I went through a phase when I felt bad that many of my friends who I have known from my theatre days, and who are now working in big films, aren't helping me. Even then, I have never asked them to recommend me. To be honest, I am in a happy place today and have no complaints. In theatre, I have played various kinds of roles. In cinema, I have been appreciated for my comic timing. Even though I have been streotyped as a comic actor, I don't let that affect me. I am not insecure as a person and I try not to fall prey to the notions harboured by people about me. When I made inroads into films, I wanted people to like me for the characters I essayed on screen and that’s exactly how it has panned out. 
 
 
 
 
 My character in 'Dabangg 2' as Genda became very popular and my recent performance in Hindi Medium was also appreciated. While my serious roles have been noticed, I enjoy popularity among the masses for my ability to make people laugh. Within the industry, I am considered to be a versatile actor for my performances in films like 'Omkara', 'Shaurya', 'Delhi-6' and 'Gulaal'. 
 
 
 
 
 Success is not about things working according to your wishes. For me, success is the ability to be responsible for delivering one good performance after another. 
 
 
 
 
 Films have the power to influence. Many people in our country confuse creative freedom and liberties taken by a filmmaker to create the world that they intend to as the real thing. But, our film is an adult one and what has been done as a form of expression should be allowed to thrive. The characters portrayed in the movie use cuss words as a crutch and it is their shortcoming. They belong to a certain milieu and it aids the writer to place them in their world. One can't take a moral position with regard to this. Secondly, when 'Tanu Weds Manu' was being made, the intention was to make a sweet romantic comedy. Today, it's a franchise due to its popularity. Apart from that, there are different kinds of audiences and people want to see a variety of content. World cinema and the exposure to content online have led to changing tastes among people. 
 
 
 I love  's madness and desire to be experimental. Vishal Bhardwaj's films intrigue me because they revolve around the personal-political spheres and the works of Shakespeare. Anurag Kashyap's films try to dig deep into the world of crime. Aanand L Rai has a great hold over narratives that centre on romcoms. But, I have noticed that once a filmmaker becomes a producer, then the need to make profits becomes the focus. 
 
