HYDERABAD: Beware! Your mobile phone could affect your heart rate variability (HRV) and significantly change your average heart beat intervals, warn a team of city researchers.   is a measurement of variability between two successive heart beats, and determines the cardiovascular condition of a person. Any significant changes in the HRV could impact the cardiac health of an individual.

 
  
  
 
 
 The researchers suggest that mobile phones should be used with earphones to reduce the negative impact on HRV to a certain extent. Heart rate variability begins to change when the phone is in use, and the extent of variability depends on nearness of the phone to the body.
 
 As part of the research, the team from the city-based   (DCMS) conducted three different studies, effect on heart rate variability when the phone is close to body; when the phone is used with earphones; and when mobile phone is not in use.
 
 The study revealed that “there is a statistically significant change in average heart rate and time between beats (RR interval), when the mobile phone is kept in direct contact with the ear, versus when it is connected using earphones.” However, the increase in mean heart rate is more when mobile phone is kept in direct contact with the ear than with the use of earphones.
 
 The team comprised Juveriya Yasmeen, Mehnaaz Sameera Arifuddin, Nazema Khatoon, Umaima Mahveen and Mohammed Abdul Hannan Hazari from the Department of Physiology, Deccan College of Medical Sciences. The results of the study were published in the latest issue of the science journal, National Journal of Physiology, Pharmacy and Pharmacology.
 
 “There is a decrease in parasympathetic tone and an increase in sympathetic tone measured indirectly through HRV parameters, i.e. change in low frequency (LF) and high frequency (HF) components. Thus, this study shows that the use of mobile phones does indeed influence heart rhythmicity and conductivity. The population at large should be advised on minimizing the use of mobile phones in their day-to-day life,” the study warned.
 
 One of the researchers, Arifuddin, told 
  that people should be encouraged to use earphones during active calls and to minimize using phones with direct contact to the ear. “This is because of the electromagnetic field developed around a mobile phone during active call. It may cause interference with electrical impulses in the body,” she said adding that due to the proximity of the phone to the heart, rhythmicity and conductivity of impulses may be affected directly or indirectly through the modulation of autonomic nervous system (ANS). Incidentally, ANS controls the heart beat and heart rate variability. The effect of mobile phone use on the cardiovascular system (CVS) can be detected at an early stage by analysing alterations in heart rate variability, she added.
 
 
