BENGALURU: With a proposal pending before the   to increase garbage cess to 15% of  , Bengalureans might have to shell out more money. The issue will be tabled before the BBMP council on Monday.

 However, according to sources, with the assembly polls round the corner, the council may not take a decision on this matter just yet.
 
 
 Currently, garbage cessis paid by individual property owners based on the type and size of the property. There are different slabs for residential, commercial, industrial units, hotels, nursing homes and wedding halls based on size. A residential unit of over 3,000 sqft pays Rs 50 per month as garbage cess, whereas a house of less than 1,000 sqft pays Rs10 per month.
 
 As per thelatest proposal, all properties, including buildings and vacant sites, will have to pay 15% of the tax as garbage cess.
 
 In 2016, the urban development department instructed the Palike to follow
 
 the Rajasthan model of garbage cess collection, where 15 % of property tax is collected as garbage cess. However, implementing the same in Bengaluru would mean amending the   Act1976.
 
 Garbage cess was introduced in BBMP areas in 2011.
 
 “The move is much needed, as the BBMP is spends nearly Rs 500 crore on city’s solid waste management and the cess amount collected helps cover only 9-15% of the total expenditure. In 2014-15, the BBMP spent Rs 421.13 crore, whereas the cess collected was only Rs 41 crore, which is just 9.75% of the expenditure,” said a senior BBMP official.
 
 As per the new proposal, if bulk generators like   in-situ compost units, then they would get 50% rebate on the15% garbage cess levied. This means bulk generators will needto pay only 7.5% of the property tax as cess. The rebate is allowed only after BBMP officers inspect the composting unit and certify that the property is eligible for it.
 
 “It’s the same model that’s practised in Gujarat and it’s been found to be successful. This proposal has been pending before the BBMP council since September 2017,” said senior officers.
 
 However, sources say corporators are not keen on taking up this proposal as it could mean antagonizing voters ahead of assembly elections. “Increasing garbage cess would mean citizens have to shell out more money and any such move won’t be ideal prior to elections. Though the government itself suggested that the BBMP take up this model, there’s a lack of political will in implementing the same,” sources said.
 
 When contacted, mayor   said the issue had beeen discussed at the pre-council meeting too and it’s got nothing to do with the elections.
 
