AGRA:   have filed an   in the  , who were killed in an accident on the intervening night of Saturday and Sunday on   when their MUV rammed into a mini truck from the rear.
 
  In the FIR, the driver of the truck, which is registered with Agra RTO, has been booked under sections 279 (rash driving), 304A (causing death by negligence) and 338 (causing grievous hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) of the IPC. According to police, after the accident the driver fled but the truck was seized. The driver’s identity is still unknown, but police teams are trying to identify and arrest him.
  
  Station officer of Surir, Om Singh, told TOI, “The FIR was filed by an AIIMS doctor identified as Dr Prabal Sharma, who came to Surir on Sunday along with the victims’ relatives and gave written complaint regarding the accident.”
  
  Singh added: “Prima facie it seems that the MUV driven by one of the deceased, Dr Harshad Wankhade, was trying to overtake the truck when the accident happened. The car rammed into the rear of the truck and was dragged nearly 300 metres. However, in case of an accident, regardless of who has caused it, the injured party can file a complaint. Therefore an FIR was lodged by the relatives of the doctors. At present our priority is to arrest the driver and question him.”
  
  The section related to negligence was invoked in the FIR because the truck was carrying heavy iron pipes and bars and its rear indicators were not visible to drivers coming from behind. This was because the truck’s cargo-lock door was down to provide space for the pipes and bars which were much longer than the cargo hold space, police officers said. “According to the FIR, the truck driver’s negligence caused the accident,” Singh said.
  
  On Sunday at around 2:30 am, the MUV hit the rear of the truck and three doctors including a woman were killed while four others were injured. All the doctors were from emergency medicine department of AIIMS. Wankhade (34), Dr Yashpreet Singh (25) and Dr Himbala (24) died on the spot, while Dr Catherine Halam, Dr Mahesh Kumar, Dr Jitender Mourya and Dr Abhinava Singh suffered grave injuries.
