QUOTE: My coffee is the best you can have after a meal of biriyani, as it helps in digestion 

 Madurai: Nothing much has changed for John’s Sukku Coffee since it was established in 1954. Even though it stands among towering commercial establishments, their coffee is still in demand as its counterparts, because of the unique ‘sukkumalli coffee’ which is patronised by people who come shopping to South Masi Street. 
 
 The shop was established by V Rayar, an herbal medicine practitioner, who made herbal concoctions for people when they fall sick. After his demise, his son R James took over the shop in 1972. The herbal coffee is made with a mixture of dry ginger (sukku), thippili, chitharathai, tulsi, palm jaggery and other herbs, mixed in specific quantities. The concoction which was sold at four paisa at Rayar’s time was then sold at 12 paisa when James took over. Now a glass cost Rs10 and a parcel costs Rs25.
 
 The shop still stands in the same 3 feet x 3 feet area with wooden panelled door. Open from 9 am to 10 pm, the shop sees a regular line of customers, selling about 500 coffees on ordinary days. The sales double during rainy seasons when James and his brother Elangovan are always kept on their feet. There are many who have a wholesome meal of biriyani and head straight to this shop for the coffee, as it helps them with digestion. “My drink is the best you can have after a meal of biriyani,” James said.
 
 He said that his father wanted to create awareness about the goodness of this herbal drink and not make a profit out of it. So till date, he too has been following his footsteps. He is happy that his customer base which had only been a handful has now grown to a few strong hundreds today.
 
 N Gnanapandithan comes all the way from Villapuram, which is five kilometers away, to have his daily fix. “It ensures that I stay healthy and if I am down with fever or cough, I have more and even get parcels,” he said. The coffee is also door delivered, if the order is 50 or more.
 
 Though the shop is closed on Sundays, the mixture is pounded and kept ready for the upcoming week. “Now finding people who can pound has become a problem, so I do it myself most of the time,” said James.
 
 He had sold cigarettes and other soft drinks for some time, but stopped selling them after his son J Franklin, an engineering graduate, who joined him in the business, persuaded him that they were harmful to health, when their main product was a health drink. Now, the shop sells just sukku coffee, laddus made of millets and jaggery and handmade murukku.
 
 
