CHANDIGARH: Haryana speaker   on Tuesday suspended 15 MLAs of INLD and one of SAD for the rest of the budget session. Led by Leader of Opposition Abhay Singh Chautala, the MLAs had created ruckus while demanding chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar’s statement on the issue related to audio clips of   municipal council chairman  , in which he was allegedly heard speaking about paying Rs 75 lakh to get elected to the post.

 In the audio clip, Singla is heard stating that out of Rs 75 lakh, Rs 45 lakh was to be paid to Haryana Staff Selection Commission’s chairman Bharat Bhushan Bharti’s son. Nearly two hours of assembly’s proceedings were lost in the bedlam over the issue soon after the question hour.
 
 Meanwhile, Khattar ordered a vigilance probe into the entire controversy. He has given one month deadline to Haryana state vigilance bureau to submit its report.
 
 On Tuesday morning, Chautala and deputy leader of opposition Jaswinder Singh Sandhu were on their feet immediately after the question hour, seeking registration of a case against those involved in the scam. The opposition criticised the government and Khattar for allegedly having given a clean chit to the HSSC chairman. The CM had backed Bharti on his role in the functioning of HSSC and recruitment process carried out by Bharti and his team so far.
 
 As the ruckus continued, speaker Gujjar initially adjourned the House for 15 minutes, and then for another 15 minutes. When the sitting resumed, the speaker came with the Monday’s proceedings in which CM Khattar had referred to the HSSC chairman. As Sandhu continued to oppose and make remarks against the CM, the speaker named him first, and then all 15 INLD MLAs and the lone Akali legislator.
 
 Soon after their exit, Haryana parliamentary affairs minister   brought the proposal for placing INLD MLAs under suspension for the rest of the session. The proposal was passed by voice vote.
 
 4 INLD members still in House
 
 The INLD MLAs who escaped the suspension included Naina Chautala, Parminder Dhull, Hari Chand Midha and Makhan Lal Singla. Naina was not present in the House when her party MLAs created ruckus while the other three remained silent.
 
 
