SURAT: India’s first   built on green concept will be inaugurated in the   by chief minister   on Friday.

 Established in 1909, the 109-year-old Surat District   has become first among 370 district banks in India and 18 in   to construct its new headquarters at Majura Gate on the green building concept. Constructed on 45,000 square feet of area, it took just 15 months to complete the project at a cost of Rs34 crore. 
 
 The terrace of the district bank is installed with rooftop solar plant for generating 36 kilowatts of electricity for its in-house needs. The solar panels have been designed in such a way that the electricity requirement will be met even during monsoon season. 
 
 The five-storeyed bank building has green patches for gardening at each floor. The entry of the building has a green landscape with lush garden for providing a different feeling to customers. All floors have facility of toilets and reception, mineral RO plants for clean drinking water, etc. 
 
 The entire building has sensor system in place for automatic switches. All offices, conference hall, toilets, cabins, etc, have sensor system where the lights will go off automatically after a couple of minutes in the absence of staff and customers. 
 
 Surat District Cooperative Bank chairman Naresh Patel told TOI, “We are one of the oldest district banks in the state and are proud to have built our new headquarters on the green concept. This is the only district cooperative bank in India to have its own solar power generation.”
 
 About the bank’s performance, Patel said the bank has 86 branches and 52 ATMs. The bank has 8.25 lakh active accounts with deposit worth Rs 5,091 crore and the disbursement is around Rs 2,043 crore. Net profit at the bank is Rs 13 crore with 0% NPA. 
 
 Patel said, “This is the only bank having state-of-the-art currency chest located on the first floor as per the   guidelines. The chest is so uniquely developed that the currency collection van can be driven straight to the first floor for collection and deposit of cash.”
 
 
