AHMEDABAD: The two-day open hearing of the   began on Thursday morning at   at Karai on the outskirts of Ahmedabad. A total of 155 cases will be taken up in these days. On the first day, a total of 136 cases were taken up for hearing by the four benches presided over by   chairman Justice HL Dattu and NHRC Members, Justice PC Ghose, Justice D Murugesan and Jyotika Kalra. Senior state level bureaucrats, like the chief secretary, ACSs, district collectors and district SPs were asked to remain present during the hearings.

 Most cases on board consisted of grievances of scheduled castes and scheduled tribes, while some also involved complaints of alleged atrocity committed by public servants or negligence by a public body in its prevention.
 
  NHRC member Kalra attended to a few cases related to lack of infrastructure facilities in villages. In one interesting case Kalra asked the commissioner of rural development Mona Khandhar the status of toilets in a few villages in Sanand taluka. Khandhar assured the bench that every family in these villages has toilets and that Gujarat state was free of open defecation. “Are you sure?,” Kalra asked. She further probed, “How do you say that Gujarat is open-defecation free?” Immediately, Khandhar corrected herself and said the villages are free of open defecation. 
 
 In another case, the NHRC bench asked the district collector of Kutch to initiate action against an orphanage, Jivan Prabhat, from where 33 children went missing and were traced by the local police to their relatives. “There has been a serious procedural lapse where the child welfare committee was not informed of children leaving or entering the orphanage,” Vinod Khubchandani, a social worker, who had lodged a complaint with the NHRC alleged that on records the orphanage mentioned they had 112 minor girls and boys, but in reality there were 77. “The   is kept in dark of the status of children. Tomorrow some of these children missing from records may face exploitation in such an orphanage and the government won’t know,” Khubchandani submitted before the NHRC.
 
 
