MANGALURU: During his Janashirvada Yatre of the coastal districts,   president   came out all guns blazing against the Narendra Modi-led Union government, citing various shortcomings, failed promises and numerous scams. At the same time, he called on party workers to fight elections with love and to work unitedly to defeat BJP. 

 
 “Show them love, even if they abuse you,” Rahul said at  , where the yatre culminated on Tuesday. To boost the morale of the cadres, he reiterated what he had said at the recent plenary session of the Congress party: the voice of the party workers will be considered while finalising tickets for the assembly elections. 
 
 To thousands of party workers, who welcomed him by switching on their mobile torchlights, Rahul saluted in Tulu: “Niklu mathergla namaskara.” At the venue, Rahul insisted that the Congress would come to power in Karnataka under the able leadership of Siddaramaiah. Wearing a ‘muttale’, the traditional headgear of farmers in Tulunadu, Rahul said the Congress was committed to protecting farmers in the country. 
 
 Lashing out at the saffron party, he said, “The BJP purchased majority in Goa, Manipur, Arunachal Pradesh and Meghalaya.” The Congress chief also raked up the BJP’s ‘jumla’ of promising to deposit Rs 15 lakh in the bank accounts of each Indian. 
 
 “The Prime Minister should follow the principles of Narayana Guru and Basavanna,” he said, adding: “The PM is insulting your ancestors by saying that no development took place in last 70 years… before his arrival.” Referring to BJP’s promises of two crore jobs every year, Rahul exhorted Modi to follow Basavanna’s line “nudidanthe nade” (practice what you preach). 
 
 He said the PM, who once called himself a ‘chowkidaar’ of the nation, was silent while fraudsters like Nirav Modi looted the nation’s money. Rahul also questioned BJP’s silence over the sudden increase in the turnover of a company owned by Amit Shah’s son. He accused the central government of causing over Rs 40,000 crore loss to the exchequer in the purchase of Rafale fighter aircraft from France.
 
