By Ranjan K Panda

 Odisha bowed before a ‘temple of modernity’ in 1948, when the construction of the   Dam began. Seventy years since, and 61 years after the dam was opened, it is known more for its failures than successes, says water conservation activist Ranjan K Panda
 
 Dams have been the main reason for most interstate river water disputes in the country. The Hirakud Dam is no exception. I can with all responsibility say that the current spell of conflict between Odisha and Chhattisgarh owes its origin to this dam. Dams obstruct rivers, colonize their waters and create conflicts.
 
 The Hirakud Dam is located at latitude 21.31°N and longitude 83.52°E across the  , 15 km upstream of Sambalpur. With a submergence area of 743 square kilometres, the reservoir submerged 123,303 acres of cultivable land and displaced 22,144 families, officially. A total of 3,540 families are yet to be compensated but other sources peg the figure at 9,913 families.
 
 The dam became functional in 1957 and then Prime Minister   had said while inaugurating it, “If you are to suffer, you should suffer in the interests of the country.” The displaced are still suffering but what is more surprising is the fact that the supposed ‘beneficiaries’ are also suffering.
 
 The dam is the first multi-purpose mega-dam project of independent India. At that time, Hirakud was known as the longest earthen dam in the world and had the largest spread artificial lake in Asia. While 53.1% of the catchment area of the Mahanadi falls in Chhattisgarh, it is almost 90% for the Hirakud Dam. Hence, the dam is completely dependent on the release of water from Chhattisgarh. The catchment area of the dam inside Odisha is only about 9.4%.
 
 The Hirakud Dam was constructed between 1948 and 1956 as a National Project and transferred to Odisha in 1963. Post construction,  , the state from which Chhattisgarh was carved out, and Odisha were supposed to have an agreement to manage the Mahanadi basin together as the majority of the catchment area of the dam falls in the current state of Chhattisgarh. However, no concrete agreement was chalked out and there have just been sporadic and fragmented discussions. This is the reason both states have challenged each other over water use and abuse.
 
 Without any agreement or joint initiatives to protect the catchment and strategize the use and recharge of water, the situation has come to such a pass that the Hirakud Dam will die a premature death. The original project report envisaged that irrigation and power production would require 12.28 million acre feet (MAF) of water, including reservoir losses. Of this, 4.10 MAF was supposed to be derived from storage and the balance from the normal flow of the river. The minimum run-off of the Mahanadi at that point was 20.61 MAF. The project architects had made an allocation of 12.28 MAF for Hirakud, leaving 8.33 MAF for use by upstream states.
 
 Due to heavy erosion in the catchment area, the dam has already silted up massively. An analysis by the   in 1995 and studies by dam authorities soon after revealed that its total storage capacity had gone down by 27.35% due to siltation. There is every possibility of this having gone up further. A remote sensing study confirmed that live storage and dead storage had declined by 17.16% and 53.72%, respectively.
 
 The dam was originally conceived as a flood-control reservoir to mitigate flood in the downstream delta. Apart from flood control, Odisha’s requirement for water for irrigation, power, domestic and industrial stands at 18,175 MCM (million cubic metre).
 
 While water from the river has been receding fast, Odisha’s commitment to industries and other sectors has gone up. The non-monsoon commitment from Hirakud stands at 6,308 MCM, and is set to increase to 8,179 MCM. Statistics suggest that there has been a constant downward trend of water availability in the Hirakud reservoir from 1990-91 onwards. Going by inflow versus demand at Hirakud (non-monsoon actual), the water availability seems to have gone down from a little less than 8,000 MCM to a little more than 5,000 MCM. This is a really scary situation.
 
 The current flow from the Chhattisgarh catchment area at Hirakud (annual yield/demand in MCM) stands at 19,237 MCM but Chhattisgarh’s future demand will be 23,651 MCM. It means the net flow from the Chhattisgarh catchment area will be in the negative at (minus) 4,414 MCM. Odisha receives 2,119 MCM from the catchment area of Hirakud that falls within the state. This means, when the potential of Chhattisgarh projects (about which Odisha has raised concerns) are utilized, the total inflow to Hirakud will be reduced to only 2,119 MCM (no flow from Chhattisgarh). But the requirement of Odisha at Hirakud stands at 18,175 MCM. This means, Chhattisgarh’s dams and barrages would make Hirakud completely redundant. This also means that Odisha’s farmers, who have already been fighting a battle against diversion of water from Hirakud to industries, will be doomed further.
 
 In our lifetime, and even before it completes its designed 100 years of life, the Hirakud dam will be dead. Such dams, which might have provided some benefits in relation to irrigation and power supply, are not a sustainable solution to our water woes. They obstruct and kill rivers. The Hirakud can make the Mahanadi a thing of the past.
 
