Ranchi: Main opposition in the state, Jharkhand Mukti Morcha ( ) has accused the Raghubar Das-led   government of violating   and   (SEC) of turning a blind eye to the series of violations being committed by the state government.

 Central general secretary of the party   on Sunday accused minister for tourism, arts, culture, sports and youth affairs   of violating the norms by making an announcement about reserving class III and class IV jobs for the locals in those 11 districts which are not in the list of scheduled area on Saturday. Bhattacharya argued that when the high powered committee appointed by the government to review provisions of recruitment policy of state is expected to submit its report to the government after urban local body elections, what was the need for making a prior announcement about the findings of the committee.
 
 “Being a minister Bauri should have behaved responsibly and made any public announcement only after handing over the report to government,” he said. Bhattacharya also expressed surprise that despite repeated attempts by the ruling BJP to circumvent law in terms of making populist announcements, the state election commission was silent . “ We feel that the present state election commissioner is not ready to issue even a notice to the government for a series of violation of the model code because it remained silent even when chief minister announced to address water crisis of the people after April 17 and handing over land titles to the people squatting on government land. 
 
 JMM also trained its guns at the CM and pointed finger to the series of meetings being chaired by Das in district headquarters wherever ULB elections are going to be held. “Das uses government chopper to visit the districts in the name of holding review meet for development and soon after half-hour meetings with the district authorities, he addresses BJP workers in a close-by venue which goes on for several hours,” he said, admitting that there was no hope of action being taken against the government by SEC. 
 
 Bhattacharya said that the incumbent commissioner of SEC was appointed on the post by government immediately after his retirement as the additional chief secretary home department. “Ideally there should have been a cooling off period and now he seems to be behaving as a government official instead of taking neutral decisions,” he added.
 
 
