MUMBAI: In a   battle over their 7-year-old son, a sessions   has upheld the rights of the 36-year-old MBA father working for an MNC and dismissed the plea of the mother, a doctor working for a city hospital. 

 The court allowed the father to have 48-hour access to the child every alternate weekend while observing that for the child’s well-being and smooth development, the father is entitled to visitation rights. 
 
 The court had found that the child had been missing out on school due to the custody battle. The court held that a child has the right to spend time on a regular basis with both parents and other people significant to its care, welfare and development. The mother had moved the sessions court after a magistrate court had allowed the custody arrangement. The magistrate had stated that the father was allowed to keep the child with him, from 6pm on Friday until 6pm on Sunday (every alternate weekend). 
 
 Further the mother was to arrange for the child to speak to his father over video call for an hour every Thursday evening. The court also directed the mother to disclose her residential address and a submit copy of the address to the senior inspector at the local police station and any change in the address should also be intimated. The court also told the mother that she was not to change the child’s school without the father’s consent.
 
 The petition under the Domestic Violence Act was moved in July 2017, while the parents cohabited with the child until December. After the mother left with the child in December, the father had was allowed to meet him only once on December 27 before the magistrate court. The father told the sessions court that he had equal right over the child and like the mother had similar concerns for him. He told the court that the visitation rights provided by the magistrate were proper. 
 
 The sessions court pointed out to the child access and custody along with parenting plan tendered by both the sides. The court said that in Clause 31 it is provided that the courts are under obligation to consider that the child shall spend equal and substantiate time with each parent. While ruling in the father’s favour, the court held, “The overnight access at home of the non-custodial parent should be encouraged at an early stage so that children have a close relationship and get the love of parents, grandparents and other immediate family members.”
 
