BENGALURU: Having exposed the previous   regime of their hand in the multi crore illegal mining scam between 2008-2012, JDS state president H D   on Saturday trained his guns on chief minister Siddaramaiah by alleging an iron ore scam of a whopping Rs 5,000 crore between 2014 to 2017 in the state owned   (MML).

 At a media interaction, Kumaraswamy released an internal inquiry report of the mines and geology department which cited several fudging of log book records, disproportionate entries on the ore mined and that which has been entered in the books at the MML.
 
 Kumarswamy said the maximum amount of iron ore lifting and scam took place under the aegis of senior IAS officer Tushar Giri Nath, who was then the director of MML and is now the principal secretary of chief minister Siddaramaiah.
 
 “The total amount of iron ore which has been illegally lifted and siphoned off from the   and Thimmappanagudi in Ballari district is over 60, 56,440 metric tonnes. Now, the main perpetrator of the entire scam continues to work in the CM’s office, Tushar Giri Nath, and is being protected by Siddaramaiah,” alleged Kumarswamy.
 
 The former CM said the internal report of the mines and geology Department gave a clear indication of the amount of ore which has been siphoned off from MML leased mines.
 
 Releasing the document to the media, Kumaraswamy said four contractors S S Muchandi, Amit Earth Movers, Vishal Enterprises and the controversial company of South West mining Limited were given the job of excavating, drilling and crushing.
 
 “Now these companies were involved in lifting and transporting the iron ore from these mines. The scam is on a mega scale and the government is trying to cover up the entire issue by not taking cognisance of the internal inquiry,” alleged Kumaraswamy.
 
 The former CM did not clarify on whether his one time colleague turned nemesis, Siddaramaiah was involved directly in the scam.
 
 Kumaraswamy dared the   government, which is trying to retain power in Karnataka at the 2018 polls, to conduct an investigation and reveal as to where the 60 lakh MT has been siphoned or dispatched to.
 
 The JDS leader hinted that the entire amount of iron ore allegedly siphoned from MML has been dispersed within the state and one single private steel company has benefitted from it.
 
 “Let the investigation be conducted and truth be revealed,” he said.
 
