GHAZIABAD:The district administration started a   on Monday to assess the measures taken by various private   in the city to ensure safety and   of students enrolled in them. The district administration has formed 29 teams that will visit all 116 private schools in the district to conduct surveys before submitting a compiled report on May 17.

 
 The administration will also ascertain whether the private schools are charging fees from students in accordance with the new regulations put in place by the state government this year.
 
 All private schools have been provided questionnaires containing 32 basic points pertaining to safety of students. The school managements have been directed to revert with the filled-in questionnaires before May 17. The queries pertain to measures including installation of CCTV cameras on school premises and buses, construction of school building in accordance with guidelines of the National Building Code, safety of students in washrooms and toilets, police verification of school staff and fire NOCs.
 
 The teams, each comprising four officials, have been directed to ascertain whether schools are following all guidelines contained in the questionnaire. They have been asked to further verify whether electricity connections within school premises are secure, visitors’ log books are maintained, whether all staff members are provided with identity cards and quality of food cooked in canteens.
 
 ADM (city) Himanshu Gautam told TOI that all schools have been directed to follow the guidelines and ensure full cooperation with the administrative teams that visit their premises for inspection.
 
 “A team was not allowed entry inside DPS-Ghaziabad’s Meerut Road campus by its security guards at the gate on Tuesday. The team was finally let in for inspections after police intervention. Action will be initiated against the schools in accordance with rule of law wherever they are found not following the norms,” said Gautam.
 
 The school management said the team was allowed only after identities of officials were verified. “The officials were barred by the security guards initially because they did not furnish their identity proofs. The administration had also not provided the school with prior information about the visit,” school principal Jyoti Gupta told TOI.
 
 The administration has convened a meeting with various parents’ associations on Wednesday in order to address their grievances. “There are a number of private schools functioning in violation of norms and we had brought it to the notice of administration earlier. A number of school buildings have been constructed by violating not only the National Building Code but also the approved layout maps of Ghaziabad Development Authority. Classes are being conducted in spaces that put students at great risk of safety. We will inform the administration yet again about these lapses,” said Alok Kumar, president, Federation of Apartment Owners Association of Ghaziabad.
 
 
