NAGPUR: After facing ire of High Court over failure to come clean on former deputy chief minister Ajit Pawar’s role in Rs70,000 crore irrigation scam, the State Anti-Corruption Bureau ( ) informed the court that it had started investigations against him.

 A division bench of Justices Bhushan Dharmadhikari and Swapna Joshi on Thursday asked the principal secretary to reply on ACB’s affidavit within a week. Senior counsel PK Dhakephalkar from Mumbai appeared for  .
 
 In its affidavit, ACB informed that Pawar, the then   minister and Vidarbha Irrigation Development Corporation (VIDC) chairman, is being “examined and investigated regarding the sanction of tender, mobilization advance and issue of work order”.
 
 “The proposal of mobilization advance sanction and issue of work order were put up to Pawar by VIDC’s then executive director and is under scrutiny with regard to the rules of business,” the affidavit by deputy ACB superintendent in Buldhana, Shailesh Jadhav, stated.
 
 While admitting petitioner’s charges that Bajoriya Construction Company had submitted forged and fabricated work experience certificate, ACB granted a clean chit to ex-NCP MLC  , who owned the firm. The agency informed an enquiry was launched in alleged irregularities in Lower Pedhi on January 20, as per HC’s directives and many documents were recovered.
 
 “During the enquiry, it was found ex-MLC had resigned from the firm in 2010, while power of attorney was executed in favour of his brother Sumeet. Enquiry officer hasn’t found any role or involvement of ex-MLC.”
 
 The affidavit further stated Bajoriya’s firm didn’t possess necessary eligibility criteria, still it was declared qualified by the pre-qualification inspection committee and undue favours were extended to it. Therefore, offences were registered against six members for their misconduct under Sections 420, 466, 468, 471, 474, 192, 193, 197, 198, 120(b), and 109 of IPC along with 13(1)(C)(D), 13(2) Prevention of Corruption Act 1988, and investigations are in final stage, it said.
 
 The affidavit said Sumeet knew about their firm being ineligible for bidding but he entered into criminal conspiracy with Maharashtra Jivan Pradhikaran’s executive engineer   and prepared a forged experience certificate to qualify. Hence, offences were registered against the duo.
 
 “All bidding companies, including Bajoriya’s firm, demanded mobilization advance from VIDC as per Section 19 of VIDC Act. VIDC also charges interest on this on various terms and conditions. It was found this advance wasn’t used and was refunded with interest to VIDC,” it said.
 
 ACB added the tender was updated and the cost was wrongly hiked by 4.97%. “The updation proposal was initiated by RG Mundada, executive engineer MUN Project division in Khamgaon, and was accepted and recommended to VIDC by Sharad Gavande, superintending engineer, Buldhana Irrigation project, and MV Patil, ex-chief engineer. VIDC executive director DP Shirke illegally sanctioned the updation. All of them are booked under various offences accordingly,” the affidavit disclosed.
 
 
