A large number of animals are killed each year along roads and railway lines crisscrossing reserve forests in the country, but the exact number of lives lost is not recorded.   (WCT), an NGO working for tiger conservation, recently launched a citizen science initiative, www.roadkills.in. The idea is to collect data on mortality of wild animals on roads, irrigation canals or railway lines so that targeted mitigation measures can be undertaken in these areas, and wildlife conservation and   can go hand-in-hand.

 “We have been working outsidethe protected area network, where reserve forests are because it faces multiple pressures and lacks necessary conservation attention. With population growth, we are expanding our road and rail network, which passes through forests, causing thedeathof many wild animals,” says Milind Pariwakam, wildlifebiologist, WCT, adding that mostof thedevelopment happening now is unplanned. “We lack necessary scientificinformation on where animals are present and where they are dying. If we do have that data, mitigation measures can beundertaken at the appropriate spots,” he adds.
 
 
 About 99% of wild animal deaths on roads go unrecorded, says Pariwakam. “Over thelast few years, at least 16 tigers have been killed on roads and railway lines and close to 200 elephants have died crossing railway tracks. But while there is data about the death of mammals like tigers and elephants, nobody knows how many other smaller but endangeredspecies of birds,  , reptiles, etc., are being killed.”
 
 That’s where android app, Roadkills, launchedon January 20, comes in. “Thousands of people travel on highways and roads every day. If each one stops and takes a photo of animals that have been killed, and upload it, we would soon have a huge database available,” says Pariwakam. All you have to do is open the app and click a photo. The app automatically geo tags the photograph, and uploads it to a central database. “We have 3,500 plus users right now,” says Pariwakam, adding that 10other NGOs are also promoting the app.
 
 The roadkill information collected by citizens will be available on maps on the website for viewing by anyone. Students, wildlife researchers, and infrastructure agencies wanting more   for analysis can write to roadkills.india@gmail.com and the data will be shared free of cost under a Creative Commons licence.
 
