

 In the main event, Kurt Angle filled the ring with superstars in anticipation of a Braun Strowman, Brock Lesnar and Kane all-out brawl and for a while that seemed to work, until Brock Lensar showed up. Strowman went after Lesnar, but Lesnar ducked and took out Kane. Strowman though got hold of Lesnar and tossed him over the ropes and then threw him towards the barricade before finishing Lesnar off witha running powerslam on to the announcer's table. 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 After Squash job on Dash Wilder and Scott Dawson, Kilq members hit their finishers on Dash and Dawson before Finn finished it off with a Coup de Grace 
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 Triple H, Shawn Michaels, New Age Outlaws - Road Dogg Jesse James and Billie Gunn and Razon Ramon aka Scott Hall took to the ring at the Manhattan Center, but they were interrupted by the Balor Club of Finn Balor, Doc Gallows and Karl Anderson and they proceeded for a kliq/Too Sweet gathering
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 After the brawl started out leading to a double disqualification for Heath Slater, Rhyno and Titus World Wide, the Dudley boys came out laid out Slater on a table 
 
 
 
 
 
 Elias had a very special song on RAW 25 and special lines for John Cena and Brooklyn crowd and that were “Just like John, Brooklyn does not have any balls” and on cue, arrived the most polarising figure in all of WWE. Two shoulder tackles followed and a five-knuckle shuffle but a blatant low blow dropped Cena on to the floor. And Elias broke the Guitar on Cena’s back, followed by the Drift Away. 
 
 
 
 
 
 Fresh off his fantastic Wrestle Kingdom match against Kenny Omega, Jericho was backstage and he had the scarfs, Guitar and the List and guess who made the list- Elias
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Lead by the Bella Twins - Nikki and Brie - followed by Maryse, Kelly Kelly, Torrie Wilson, Michelle McCool, Jacquline, Lilian Garcia, Teri Runnels and finally Trish Stratus
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Woken Matt Hardy got huge pop at the Manhattan Center but lost an easy to Wyatt
 
 
 
 APA's Poker Game brings in Natalya and Titus World Wide (Titus O'Neal, Apollo Crews and Dana Brooke). Slater continues to lose his money 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 Alexa Bliss, the RAW Women’s champion’s interview was interrupted by SmackDown Live Women’s champion Charlotte and her father the two-time Hall of Famer, Nature Boy Ric Flair. And Flair had this to say - to BE the WOMAN, you have to BEAT the WOMAN
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The Peep Show made its return with Christian hosting RAW tag team champions Jason Jordan and Seth Rollins. Jordan took the onus to leading the talk show but the Brooklyn crowd was not taking any of that and even though Jordan tried his best to talk he couldn’t. Jordan was put out of his misery by The BAR – Sheamus and Cesaro – who made it very clear that it’s not Kurt Angle, Jordan’s father, who sucks, but it’s him. Jordan then jumped Cesaro and Rollins had to interfere. Rollisn took out Sheamus with a middle rope suicide dive and took the flight back inside for a knee on Cesaro who was held down by Jordan, But Cesaro moved and Rollins inadvertently hit his partner as the BAR made their way back to the ramp 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 More superstars join in APA's Poker Game. MVP, Jeff Hardy and The SmackDown Live tag team champions The Usos
 
 
 
 
 
 The Miz found a way to beat the Big Dog, Roman Reigns. While Reigns was dealing with the outside interference from Miztourage – Bo Dallas and Curtis Axel, Miz exposed the middle turn buckle and despite the referee banishing Dallas and Axel from ringside, Miz sidestepped Reigns’charge and Reigns went head first in to the steel turn buckle and with the second Skull Crushing Finale in the match, The Miz become the an eight-time intercontinental champion.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 : It's a YES party - Daniel Bryan, Eric Bishoff, William Regal and John Laurinaitis
 
  
  
 
 
 : Poker Game with APA - Ron Simmons and JBL with Rhyno and Heath Slater. And in walks the Million Dollar Man, Ted DiBaise
 
 
 
 
 
 At the Manhattan Center, the Undertaker makes his first TV appearance since Wrestlemania 33. Jerry ‘the King’ Lawler and Jiss Ross at commentary with the setting of the first-ever RAW. The Deadman was resolute in proclaiming his dominance, declaring that all his old foes had “answered to the reaper,” from "Stone Cold" Steve Austin to Mick Foley to Kane. But now, with all his enemies laid in the earth behind him, he declared that it was truly time to rest in peace.
 
 "I declare for all of those who have fallen, it is truly time... you REST IN PEACE!!!" 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 : Reunion – Jonathan Coachman, Brooklyn Brawler, Teddy Long and the Boogeyman Brother Love and Harvey Wippleman
 
 
 
 Sasha Banks with the Bank statement on Alicia Fox picks up the win. But after the match, Auska turns on her team, first dumping Mickie James off the top rope. Then she took our Bayley with a elbow before throwing her over the top and finally Sasha was dumped out. 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 Stone Cold Stunner to Shane McMahon and Vince shares a beer with Steve Austin, before the boss is stunned again. That's a vintage start. Second stunner for Shane
 
 
  
  
 
 And Vince McMahon’s rant is interrupted by … wait for it STONE COLD STEVE AUSTIN
 
 A commemorative Plaque: Vince McMahon is presented with a commemorative Plaque and he isn’t amused. He says it is cheap, and because we are at Brooklyn
 
 Stephanie McMahon and Shane McMahon open the RAW 25 from Brooklyn, New York 
 
 Hello and welcome to our live coverage 25 year so of RAW. 
 
 The celebration is Raw tonight when TV’s longest-running weekly episodic show commemorates its 25th anniversary with returning WWE Legends like The Undertaker and “Stone Cold” Steve Austin, Superstars from both Team Red and SmackDown LIVE, an Intercontinental Championship Match pitting Roman Reigns against The Miz and much more. Don’t miss any of the action as Raw emanates from the Barclays Center and its original home, the Manhattan Center. 
 
 ALSO READ: 
 
 
