Thiruvananthapuram: Spurred by the response to dry   drives, the city corporation will launch five mobile resource recovery centres (RRCs) modelled on mobile ATMs, a first of its kind initiative in the city. 

 The proposal, which was presented by the health committee, was approved in the council meeting held here on Thursday. 
 
 Five trucks, which had not been in frequent use since the closure of centralized waste treatment facility at Vilappilsala, will be used for the project. These trucks, which were used for daily transportation of bio-degradable waste to Vilappilsala, will be redesigned to suit the purpose.
 
 As per the design, it will have a counter, a collection cabin and a storage space. There will be seats affixed in the vehicle for the corporation staff. Five such trucks will be launched as mobile RRCs. 
 
 The main objective is to cover a major number of wards where people had remained inaccessible to collection drives. At present special collection drives are organized in 10 major points and often residents from less than 15 wards have been able to participate in the drives.
 
 “Mobile RRC will enable us to reach out to a larger section of the public who do not participate in dry waste collection drives. As per the plan, advance notice will be issued on the location where vehicle would be stationed for a day. We would collect four kinds of dry waste on that day and this would be transported to our permanent RRC at Muttathara,” said a corporation official.
 
 The health wing has proposed Rs 6 lakh to be spent on redesigning each vehicle. With the closure of waste treatment plant, corporation was forced to auction many trucks which had been used for waste collection. The new proposal to redesign the vehicles would also enable corporation to make sure that the remaining vehicles are not wasted away. 
 
 “Our main objective is to create that awareness on segregation of different kinds of waste. People in some of the newly formed wards, coastal wards and wards closer to panchayat areas are yet to grasp the basic concept of segregation. With our vehicles going to respective locations it will also serve the purpose of running a mobile awareness campaign,” the official added.
 
 Even during the collection drives held in less than 20 wards in a year, corporation had collected 345.6 tonnes of plastic, close to 400 tonnes of glass waste and 30 tonnes of e-waste in 2017.
 
 The city corporation has already started registration of scrap vendors in the city as part of its efforts to enhance collection of non-biodegradable waste in the city. 
 
 With the registration of scrap vendors, corporation plans to link the vendors with material recovery facilities and collection units at aerobic bins which have been installed in the city. 
 
 Scrap vendors, who are registered with city corporation, can now directly collect recyclable waste from collection units and material recovery facilities. Corporation will also publish the list of scrap vendors who are registered with it.
 
 
