CHANDIGARH:   on Monday formed a sub-committee to study modalities to implement cooperative mess model in all its hostel canteens. The committee was formed during a meeting of dean student welfare (DSW), along with hostel wardens, which was convened here on Monday. 

 "We have formed a sub-committee to study the modalities of the cooperative mess model. Moreover, we are waiting for the response from the Union ministry of finance for the   implementation on hostel mess bills," said  .
 
 A cooperative mess is run by the varsity students and is headed by a manager. Under the existing system, there is a contractor, who employs mess workers. A cooperative mess is exempted from the GST.
 
 Sources said that it was discussed in the meeting that if cooperative mess model is implemented in the hostels, the mess would become a liability for the university. It was discussed that in the existing system, the contractor deals with the payment to workers. However with the implementation of the cooperative mess, the mess workers would have to be paid as per the labour laws. They added that until the university receives any response from the ministry, the hostel bills won't be levied with GST.
 
 The varsity had put the GST implementation on the hostel mess bills on hold and had written to the ministry of finance stating that being a government institution, the university hostel mess should be exempted from the GST. The students had raised their concerns against the imposition of GST on the hostel mess bills. The university is now waiting for the response from the ministry.
 
 Recently, a circular was released by the ministry of finance asking the educational institution to impose GST on bills. The university has sought exemption under para 2.1 of the ministry's notification.
 
 "The varsity runs various hostels on its campus in which facility of student mess and canteen are provided. A contractor is appointed by the university to provide necessary food and other materials. The diet charges and price of other material is determined by the university and the collection of the diet charges is done by the wardens. The university is of the view that for GST charges,   falls under para 2.1 of your notification dated January 18, 2018," stated the letter sent by the university to the ministry of finance.
 
