MUMBAI: The   on Monday did not immediately permit a woman over 27 weeks pregnant with a foetus that has a missing stomach and other anomalies to undergo a   ( ), but asked her lawyer to demonstrate if there is any threat to the mother's life. 

 A bench headed by Justices RM Borde and RG Ketkar perused a report by a panel of doctors from the state-run  , which had been asked by a vacation bench on January 2 to examine the pregnant woman. The report confirmed the findings of Dr Nikhil Datar, a gynaecologist who had earlier examined the Mumbai woman, a 37-year-old housewife, detecting presence of multiple foetal anomalies including in the abdomen, brain and heart, making the risk of morbidity very high. The report however said, "She is extremely anguished with the foetus. No psychopathology seen, she can take her own decision." 
 
 The report said it would carry out the termination if the court permits it.
 
 In India, an abortion is illegal when the pregnancy has gone beyond 20 weeks. An exception is carved in the law to permit a termination if a doctor says it is necessary to save the pregnant woman's life. The woman had moved court for permission since she was almost seven months pregnant when the foetal anomalies were detected.
 
 Advocate Meenaz Kakalia who submitted that threat to a pregnant woman's life would include mental health issues and mental trauma if made to continue such pregnancy. She also said that the SC had last July allowed a woman in similar circumstances to undergo an MTP, keeping in mind her right to life with dignity. 
 
 The bench asked Kakalia to present any judgments that dealt with exception carved in section 5 of Medical Termination of Pregnancy Act. She pointed to another SC order of 2016 and will make submissions on Tuesday.
 
 The SC had in 2016 allowed an MTP in case of a 24-week-old foetus with multiple abnormalities.
 
 Dr Datar a city-based gynaecologist is at the forefront of a legal battle, which is pending in the SC, to extend the gestational age cut-off for abortion to beyond 20 weeks . The court adjourned the matter for hearing to Tuesday.
 
 
