MANALI: Manali seems to be not doing well on the tourism front. After attaining permit to go to   after a lot of efforts, several passengers returned to Manali without watching snow, the central attraction. The long traffic jams left the tourists with no alternative but to return to Manali, and the same happened with the recently introduced electric buses by Himachal Road Transport Corporation (HRTC).

 To avoid being stuck in traffic jams for long hours, tourists are leaving from Manali as early as 2am or sometimes even before— all in the hope of making it to Manali by the earliest. Despite being just 51km away from Manali, reaching   Pass has become a difficult task. The slow verification and processing of permits at Gulaba check-post is resulting in 8 to 10km-long queue of vehicles. The check-post has three counters for permit verification of vehicles going to Rohtang, Lahaul-Spiti and Ladakh. 
 
 On Thursday, when many vehicles could not reach the check-post to get the permit to move ahead to Rohtang Pass despite waiting for over four hours, many of them preferred to return back heavy-hearted. 
 
 HRTC had started electric bus service to Rohtang Pass on Wednesday. The buses were stuck in traffic for hours before returning to Manali at 11pm. Hundreds of other vehicles also reached in the midnight. A tourist taxi driver, Mohan Lal, said, “I left from Manali at 3am and there was already a long queue before me. I could make it to the check-post at 9am.”
 
 The HRTC on Thursday sent its eight electric buses to Rohtang Pass. When contacted, an employee from HRTC bus stand at Manali said all buses got stuck in traffic and they had no idea if the buses reached Rohtang Pass till 6pm or not. “Possibly the buses will come back to Manali by late night,” he said. 
 
 Hundreds of tourists are thronging the bus stand to book seats. To avoid scuffle and problems, HRTC said that tickets to Rohtang Pass will now be available online only.
 
 With no taxis available for Rohtang and many tourists returning midway, the Solang valley near Manali has become crowded with tourists becoming an alternate option for those wishing to go to Manali. Paragliding has become the substitute for snow for many tourists. The paragliding booking counters could be seen with long queues.
 
 
