Ludhiana: Head constable Om Prakash, who was dismissed after being accused of hatching a conspiracy with Hindu outfit leader Amit Arora for allegedly stage-managing an attack in 2016, has been reinstated after police got to know that Arora was actually shot at by two accused in the targeted killings case.

 TOI had earlier highlighted the plight of the dismissed head constable, who became a victim of poor investigation of local police. On Saturday, Om Prakash joined his duty.
 
 Recently, targeted killings’ accused Ramandeep Singh and Hardeep Singh Shera confessed that they had opened fire at Arora. The confession raised question marks on Punjab Police’s investigation. Later, the Ludhiana police had also moved an application in the local court, seeking a stay on the proceedings of the case.
 
 On January 5, the TOI published a report on how Punjab Police had retracted its statement in which it had accused Hindu outfit leader Amit Arora and his accomplices, including a head constable, of stage-managing an attack in order to get more secuirity cover for himself.
 
 Arora’s gunman Om Prakash, who was dismissed from the services, struggled by selling vegetables during the day and working as a security guard at night. Om Prakash’s wife had to work as a maid in a school.
 
 After TOI’s report, the chief cop of Ludhiana moved an application to the higher authorities with a request to reconsider the case and reinstate the head constable.
 
 Police commissioner R N Dhoke said, “The allegations against the head constable have been proven wrong. The higher authorities have reinstated him for which a written order has been released.”
 
 Head constable Om Prakash said, “My family has stood by me in this hard time. Now all my problems and troubles have ended.”
 
 “I have done my duty with honesty and would continue doing that,” he added.
 
 On February 3, 2016, the then Shiv Sena youth wing leader had lodged a police complaint that he was attacked by radicals near Basti Jodhewal Chowk when he along with his worker and gunman was having soup at a stall.
 
 Arora had claimed that he escaped with a minor injury as the bullet grazed his neck. The police had registered an attempt to murder case. However, later, the police claimed that Arora had staged the attack with the help of his gunman, workers and other accomplices. The police changed sections of FIR and booked them in the case.
 
 Subsequently, Arora, who was immediately expelled from his organization, spent six months in jail and his gunman Om Prakash got one month in jail.
 
 
