BHOPAL: Eighty experts from different corners of world will brainstorm in Bhopal on February 22-23 to know what makes people of Madhya Pradesh happy. The team includes researchers, scientists and bureaucrats who have experience of the “administration” of happiness. 

 The   government wants to measure people’s happiness in election year, but does not know the formula to calculate it. TOI has learnt that among the invitees are   of University of Cambridge, Raj Raghunathan of University of Texas, Prateep Nayak of University of Waterloo and Tshoki and   from Bhutan, which is the first country to rate itself on ‘gross happiness index’. Other experts are from Canada and UAE, say sources.
 
 Raghunathan is a professor of marketing who is interested in exploring the impact that people’s judgments and decisions have on their own happiness and fulfilment. Nayak, who is with the School of Environment, Enterprise and Development researches on the understanding of complex human-environment connections. 
 
 “It is a technical workshop in which we want to figure out the criteria, sample size of survey, its methodology, indicators, number of questions to be asked and whether it will be subjective or in yes or no format,” said director of Rajya Anand Sansthan, Praveen Gangrade.
 
 Officials said CM Chouhan is expected to participate in the discussions. Among the answers the state is looking for are what should be asked to people of MP? What would be the format of survey? How many people should be interviewed? In what form should data be complied? After this exercise is over, the government will launch a statewide survey where people will be asked to rate how happy they are on the basis of parameters set by the think fest. “People will be asked to rate their happiness meter on health, education and relations within family and in society. How satisfied they are with roads, income and security,” said an official. 
 
 This will eventually lead to MP’s happiness index — the first in the country. The government wants the happiness index out by September before the model code of conduct comes into force for the assembly elections.
 
 MP made national headlines in July 2016 when it became the first state to set up a happiness department. In May last year, the state government signed an MoU with IIT-Kharagpur on the development of a happiness index to measure well-being of people of the state. The IIT-Kharagpur team is already in Bhopal. They will deal with the technical aspects — especially farming the format — and the survey will be conducted by the happiness department, an official said.
 
 The government hopes the survey will give it an exact picture of where it succeeded and where it needs to redouble its efforts. The state government is already running ‘happiness courses’ for children in schools and is sending its employees on all-expenses paid trips — ‘Anand Shivirs’ — to learn to be happy.
 
 
