NAGPUR: With rising population and pollution, there is a need for infrastructure projects that support sustainable development. Practical use of various innovations is needed if we want the infrastructure to withstand climate change, said DM  , emeritus, IIT-Bombay, on concluding day of international conference ‘Innovative Realms in Civil Engineering’ (IRICE) on Thursday. 

 The conference ws organized by KDK College of Engineering and Institute of Engineering Research and Publication (IFERP) at the college premises.   was the print partner of the conference which was held in association with   (I), Nagpur chapter and Indian Concrete Institute, Nagpur local chapter.
 
 Stressing involvement of youths in development, Devaikar, who was the chief guest of the valedictory function, said, “Today’s youths have become self-centric. This is the main reason for the slow pace of development in the country. The young minds of our country are not as disciplined as those in our neighbouring country China. In our country, there is a huge gap between theory and practical application. The various innovations should be brought into practice if we aspire to become a developed country.” 
 
 On the second day of the conference, three keynote speeches were delivered along with more than 40 technical research papers on a range of topics in civil engineering, namely usage of fly ash, reinforced fibres, flat slabs, artificial sand, structural analysis and many more.
 
 Keynote speaker and VNIT professor OR  , said, “Such conferences provide research scholars, teachers and academicians a common forum to discuss various technological progresses in the civil sector. Such discussions and interactions provide new concepts to be publicized and promoted. Students get a chance to interact with the experts and acknowledge the importance of science and technology.”
 
 One of the participants, VG  , added, “Such events provide a platform to discuss various problems that have emerged in the recent times. The various presentations enhanced our knowledge. Such innovative ideas need to be promoted keeping the future in mind.”
 
 Another participant  , a research scholar from  , added, “Such events highlight new technologies and their effect on our lives. It is important to educate the youth who are the future of our society. Numerous technologies that were discussed here today have already been implemented in other countries. It is high time that we also introduce them.”
 
 
