HYDERABAD: In a major boost to the Telangana government’s efforts to go ahead with the Palamuru-Rangareddy lift irrigation project, the   government on Thursday granted forest clearance to acquire 500 acres in   district.

 This is set to accelerate the project works, which were restricted to meet the drinking water needs of locals. The latest approval will pave the way for the state to take up irrigation works of the first phase of the project. Hours after the development, irrigation minister   thanked Union minister Harshavardhan for granting the clearance.
 
 The prestigious project was redesigned by chief minister K Chandrasekhar Rao to lift 1.5 tmc feet of water from   foreshore for about 90 days in a year. The project was designed to provide irrigation facility to 7 lakh acres in Mahbubnagar, 5 lakh acres in Rangareddy district and 30,000 acres in Nalgonda district. After the state government cleared the redesign on June 10, 2016, some farmers went to courts and the   and secured orders restricting the project to meet only the drinking water needs of people and not go ahead with the irrigation aspects.
 
 “The state government already issued Rs 35,200 crore administrative permission to the project and wants to complete the first phase by 2018. But, due to the court cases, the project got delayed. The latest approval from the Union forest ministry is a slap on the face of the Congress which is trying to stall the project,” Harish Rao said.
 
 The project plans to construct major balancing reservoirs with a total storage capacity of 67.85 tmc feet at Narlapur, Yedula, Vattem, Karivena, Uddandapur and Laximdevipally. In spite of legal hurdles, works on   reservoir, one of the major components in the project, were completed to over 95% by the end of March.
 
 The ministry of environment and forests has in September 2017 agreed in principle to issue terms of reference (TOR) required for the environmental clearance of the project.
 
 To take up works on the irrigation component, forest and environmental clearances are mandatory. Following the approval of the TOR, the ministry is conducting studies for environment impact assessment and environment management plans in the project area for three seasons. After the completion of these studies, the state government can apply for the second phase of environmental approvals.
 
