NEW DELHI: Jawaharlal Nehru University students on Thursday   the   and didn’t let the   leave office. This was in protest against the mandatory attendance order. The students blocked all approaches and demanded rollback of the order even though there was no clarity if the VC was there in the building at all. 

 Since 11am, a steady stream of students came to the block and demanded a meeting with the VC as the Academic Council meeting set to be held on February 23 was postponed.“We just want to meet the VC and discuss with him the issue of compulsory attendance. But he has refused to meet us,” said JNUSU joint secretary Shubhanshu Singh.
 
 He also claimed that the JNU administration was “spreading lies that students have seized the administrative block”. “We are only waiting outside to meet the VC to place our concerns,” Singh said.
 
 Rectors Chintamani Mahapatra and R P Singh tried to leave for lunch, but students told them that they should get their meeting fixed with the VC. The two promised to respond by 2.30pm. But no meeting was called. Then they tried to leave again at 4pm. But this time, they were told to return. 
 
 Later in the evening, the registrar issued a statement in which the students were blamed for confining the officials in the building. JNUSU responded that it read the notice as a warning to call in the police. “No administrative work has been stopped and rectors have only been asked to initiate dialogue,” JNUSU responded.
 
 One of the rectors tweeted: “Shocking development. I am inside the building for so many hours. Health is not well. So much work to do. And frightening presence of hundreds of students outside not allowing us to exit.”
 
 After this, JNUSU president Geeta Kumari called an ambulance. “We don’t want him to suffer because of us. We have a genuine demand that we want to meet our VC, but there has been no positive response,” she said. 
 
 Later, the VC also tweeted, chiding the students for their behaviour. He blamed JNUSU for it and said the students were “bent upon creating unrest in JNU”. 
 
 Kumar also tweeted late at night that one of the rectors was taken out of the block in an ambulance. 
 
 Chief proctor Kushal Kumar tried to leave the building in the evening, but was gheraoed by the students for over an hour. Serving tea and snacks to him, the students asked the proctor about the “injustice” meted out to them. 
 
 When let go, he told TOI that he was calm when confronted by the students “as the students feel they have been wronged and are angry about it”. He also said that the administration would follow UGC guidelines. 
 
 Sources also said that a section of teachers tried to intervene by suggesting to the VC that compulsory attendance for MPhil and PhD courses should be reconsidered. Other students wrote sessional exams outdoors to protest. Later, in the evening, some 40-odd teachers arrived to express solidarity with the VC, but left seeing the angry students. 
 
 
