SHIMLA: Taking strict note of  , the   high court has directed the state government to consider making stringent provisions to check the unauthorized trade.

 It said that not only action should be taken against the private persons engaged in such illegal mining, but strict action should also be taken against government officials who allow such mining to take place.
 
 A division bench of acting Chief Justice   and Justice   in a recent judgment said the state has formulated a policy termed as Himachal Pradesh Mining Policy, 2013. Considering the overall development which has taken place in the last five years within the state, perhaps this policy needs to be revised which the state must positively do within six months, it added.
 
 It said that the chief secretary shall ensure compliance of the order and file his personal affidavit on compliance.
 
 Taking suo motu cognizance of a letter petition regarding illegal mining of minerals being carried out in   district, the court had issued a notice. The petitioner,   of   village of Mandi district, had alleged that in his village illegal mining of minerals is being carried out even after the matter was brought to the notice of the officials concerned, including the deputy commissioner and the divisional forest officer.
 
 The additional superintendent of police, Mandi, in his affidavit filed on February 25 last year, had admitted the factum of illegal mining being carried out within the territorial jurisdiction of Sadar tehsil in Mandi district and FIRs having been registered in this regard.
 
 “What shocked the court was the extent of illegal mining. In as many as in 417 cases, offenders were challaned and a sum of Rs 8,97,800 was recovered as fine only under one police station,” the high court observed.
 
 The court also said an endeavour should be made to conduct surveys periodically and wherever advisable and feasible, such of those sites which are replenished or have fresh deposits, be put to auction/grant of lease/license, in accordance with law.
 
 “This would only ensure that rather than allowing the deposit of minerals to be washed away downstream with the flow of water, the same can be extracted and the sites replenished afresh. The purpose is not only to generate revenue, but to ensure that no inundation of rivers downstream takes place, causing severe damage to property and human life,” it added.
 
 
