Visakhapatnam: The monitoring and evaluation committee of Visakhapatnam   Rail project has asked Visakhapatnam Urban Development Authority (Vuda) to take ownership of the project. The committee reached the consensus during its recent meeting, conducted at the   office about two weeks ago. The urban development body has, however, made it clear that it will have a nominal financial stake in the project given the large cost involved.

 Vuda vice chairman P Basanth Kumar said, metro rail projects across the country are owned and developed by the urban development authorities of those particular cities. “While the Amaravati Metro Rail Corporation (AMRC), which is the executing agency of the Vizag Metro Project, will mobilise 50% of the funds for the civil infrastructure of the metro project, the remaining expenditure will be borne by the concessionaire. It has also been decided to go ahead with the light metro model,” said Basanth Kumar.
 
 Explaining the technicalities of the light metro model, Vuda superintending engineer KVN Ravi said the carrying capacity per coach and axle load will be lower in the light metro rail model. “Consequently, it will bring down the cost of the project,” said KVN Ravi.
 
 The estimated cost of the project is Rs 8,790 crore (excluding land cost). While the Andhra Pradesh government will invest about Rs 4536 crore (52% of the cost) towards the development of civil infrastructure through the AMRC, the concessionaire will have to provide Rs 4,254 crore (48%) towards the development of non-civic infrastructure.
 
 The monitoring and evaluation committee had earlier shortlisted all the five bidders, who had submitted their proposals for the ‘Request for Qualification’. These include Adani Enterprises Limited, TRIL Urban Transport Private Limited in consortium with Tata Projects, Shapoorji Pallonji and Company Private Limited, Essel Infra Projects and IL&FS Rail Ltd. The AMRC will soon issue the Request for Proposal (RfP).
 
 It was learnt the Korean EXIM Bank has come forward to extend an external commercial borrowings (ECB) loan of Rs 4,500 crore to the state government.
 
  Negotiations are on for getting the loan at lowest interest rate for 20-year repayment period, including the moratorium pseriod.
 
 After the Union government had observed that the entire city of Visakhapatnam has not been declared a metropolitan area for extending the provisions of the Metro Railways Act, 1978 and the Metro Railways Act, 2002, the state government, in a recent order, specified the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation as Visakhapatnam Metropolitan Area for the purpose of developing Visakhapatnam Metro Rail Project.
 
 
