HYDERABAD: On the seventh anniversary of the historic Million March at Tank Bund, a turning point in   statehood agitation, the irony could not be missed. The same party which led the stir in 2011 and was catapulted to power on the statehood plank, imposed a virtual curfew on key roads leading to Tank Bund on Saturday. And Telangana government’s crackdown on celebrations to commemorate the event was guided by a single-minded approach to throttle the political foray of  , who once soldiered with   chief K Chandrasekhar Rao to achieve statehood.

  
  
 
 While state machinery and city police successfully foiled Kondandaram-led TJAC’s plan to take out the march, citizens had to face the brunt of traffic diversions and gridlocks due to barricading of the area near Tank Bund. And more than 700 people, including Kodandaram, were taken into preventive custody by police and grand ‘Aata, Paata, Maata’ programme inspired by 2011 Million March fizzled out. The march was the brainchild of Kodandaram, backed by CPI state secretary Chada   and other like-minded political parties and organisations.
 
 Though organisers planned to hold the meet at Tank Bund for three hours, police fortified Tank Bund and barred traffic on routes for nearly six hours. The approach road to Telangana Secretariat was barricaded, even though the proposed event was scheduled at Tank Bund.
 
 Since Friday night, preventive arrests were being conducted in various parts of the city, neighbouring districts,   and Mahabubnagar, preventing TJAC supporters from reaching Tank Bund. Kodandaram’s Tarnaka residence was under police siege since Friday night and the number of cops swelled on Saturday. Police were waiting for him to come out of his house to take him into custody. Kodandaram and some followers were inside for most part of the day and around 2.15pm, he came out and sat in his car to proceed towards Tank Bund. Police took his car under control and drove the vehicle straight to Bolarum police station. Similarly, CPI leader Venkat Reddy and his partymen were arrested at Makhdoom Bhavan, Himayatnagar. Several other leaders were stopped and arrested near Tank Bund.
 
 There was significant police deployment across the city, particularly at junctions like Khairatabad, Lakdikapul, Necklace Road, Somajiguda, Basheerbagh and other areas. In the afternoon, after they successfully stopped TJAC cadre from reaching the site, Hyderabad police brass reached Tank Bund and sat on lawns along the pavement as there were no vehicles on the stretch.
 
