KOLKATA: A  , who was recently cheated on a   and allegedly raped, was on Monday evening attacked by two  , who   with a razor, threatening her with   if she did not withdraw her complaint against the accused. The accused was released from jail a few weeks ago.

 A graduate, the woman had just resigned from a school and was on her way to offer tuition, when the incident took place at BG Press area in Behala. A complaint has been registered at the Parnasree police station.
 
 
 The victim alleged she met the accused, Soumya Bhattacharya—who introduced himself as an engineer from Bagha Jatin—on Facebook in 2016. Soon after, they got into a relationship. The two families met on February 22 last year and their wedding was fixed. “But towards the end of the last year, Bhattacharya started avoiding me. We last had a conversation in February, when he clearly said he was not interested in me and denied that our wedding had been fixed. I lodged a complaint at the Parnasree police station and cases of cheating by promising marriage and rape were registered. The accused was arrested and sent to jail for around three weeks, till the second week of March,” the woman claimed.
 
 Trouble allegedly started within five days of the accused coming out of jail. “He sent his men to threat me thrice. Twice, I lodged complaints at the Behala police station about being threatened and harassed. But on Monday, around 7pm, they crossed all limits. The two men on a bike stopped me and not only slashed my hand in a darkest alley but also threatened this was the trailer of what would follow if I did not withdraw the complaint against Bhattacharya,” she told TOI.
 
 What awaited the victim at Vidyasagar Hospital was also traumatic.
 
 “I was bleeding but I managed to reach the hospital. But the doctors there asked me to lodge an FIR before they would even administer first aid,” she said. The woman returned home around 9.30pm, almost 2.30 hours after the incident, and her parents and uncle took her to the Parnasree police station around 11pm. But the cops at the Parnasree police station are yet to lodge an FIR. “An inquiry is on as she has referred to an earlier complaint. We will look into the complaint seriously,” said an officer.
 
 Sources said if the allegation seem true, police may move to cancel the bail application of the accused.
 
 
  
 
 
 
