INDORE: Rampant felling of trees in the city has led to scarcity of nesting spots sparking competition among Indian grey hornbills with low degree of acceptance to change.

 Bird expert from the city Ajay Gadikar, who has been studying the hornbill for past many years, has spotted a reduction in the nesting spaces available to the birds which were regularly used by hornbill till last year. 
 
 “I saw three pairs trying to take charge of a single nest in Bicholi area. Last year many trees on the MYH campus were cut. Two hornbill pairs used to nest on those trees. A pair has also stopped nesting on one of trees near the Indore zoo due to big gate constructed near to it,” Gadikar said.
 
 The hornbills who are one of the most protective parents to their off springs have a typical nesting habit and are not as adaptive as pigeons. They can’t make nests in buildings and other concrete spaces easily. But, as a result of cutting of trees, the hornbills are also scanning the holes and cavities in the concrete walls, especially in high rises to make nests, since they nest only at high places. Artificial nesting for hornbills has been carried out in some parts of Maharashtra and Thailand, where it has been successful. However, no such experiment has been carried out in Indore.
 
 “Due to their specific nature, the hornbills have only recently started adapting to nesting spots in buildings. They only want a secure place for breeding and like every other species, grey hornbill is also adapting to the environmental changes,” chief conservator of forests Ajay Yadav said.
 
 During the nesting, the female hornbill seals the opening of the cavity using her excreta and mud pellets provided by the male, leaving a small vertical opening to the hollow nest for supplying food. Inside, the nest, she gives eggs and only leaves the nest after the eggs hatch.
 
 The first nesting of hornbill in concrete space in Indore was seen in 2015 when a hornbill pair had successfully bred in a multi-storey building in Old Palasia.
 
 
