NAGPUR: Even before the newly created Ghodazari Wildlife Sanctuary in forest minister Sudhir Mungantiwar’s hometown   is slated to be formally opened on May 1, wildlife in the protected area is under threat with a self-styled godman encroaching upon core area in the heart of sanctuary.

 The 80-year-old godman, said to be a disciple of Daduji Maharaj from  , is stationed for the past one month in Tass area of the sanctuary, where there is a perennial water source used by tigers, leopards and other species. Water from the same source is used by the godman and his bhakts coming to meet him regularly.
 
  deputy conservator of forest (DyCF)   said, “Notice has been issued to the godman but he has failed to move. We have requested police officials to remain present during eviction on Saturday.”
 
 Nagbhid range forest officer (RFO) RM Talande admitted that the goodman is inside the core area for a month and had told the forest staff that he would go on his own.
 
 However, officials have failed to evict him as they say there is local leaders’ pressure. The eviction move seems to have followed after TOI called up principal secretary (forest) Vikas Kharge. 
 
 Pawan Nagre and other volunteers of wildlife NGO ‘Zep’ said, “Tass has always been a hotspot for tigers due to water availability all-round the year. We have sighted tigers and leopards during machan census there. The area is so dense that one cannot go alone there.” 
 
 Presence of godman in the core area is not only illegal but will also endangers wildlife and its habitat. Devotees, among whom are even government employees, are being influenced by the godman.
 
 “Locals have been regularly visiting the core area on bikes and there is free run for them even during the night. This defeats the very purpose of declaring Ghodazari a sanctuary,” said Nagre and others.
 
 “While notifying the sanctuary, the government got rid of two villages inside and reduced the area with the sole aim that it would cause huge disturbance to tigers and wildlife. If people are still being allowed then it is dangerous. Tomorrow the same people will demand construction of a temple and stake claim on tiger habitat,” said Gadchiroli honorary wildlife warden Uday Patel.
 
 Chandrapur honorary district warden Bandu Dhotre says, “If this is true than it is really sickening. There is every possibility of tigers and wildlife getting poached with unscrupulous elements under the garb of devotees entering the forest.”
 
 Nagre of Zep said, “We will meet forest officials to push for the godman and his bhakts’ ouster.”
 
 On May 1, the sanctuary is formally being dedicated to tourists. There are 25km tourists route in Ghodazari. “The sanctuary should be managed by the wildlife wing. Under the control of territorial officials, wildlife conservation is not the priority. This is evident from the fact that forest officials failed to evict the godman even after a month,” said wildlife lover Abhay Upadhye.
 
 
