NEW DELHI: The 11th season of the   ( ) is only three days old, but already the list of players to be ruled out with injury has increased to seven (with a couple more currently under injury clouds, it must be added).

 
 
 
 
 On Tuesday, the latest player to return home was Australian fast bowler   who was withdrawn from the IPL after playing 13 consecutive Test matches in the past year, with a "bone oedema in his vertebrae" which translates to a swelling in the joint of the back. Cricket Australia confirmed Cummins' return from India today, stating that he needs a period of recover and rehabilitation keeping in mind Australia's tour of England in two months. 
 
 The 24-year-old had been purchased by defending champions   for Rs 5.4 crore from a base price of Rs 2 crore. Cummins did not feature in Mumbai's IPL 11 opener against   on Saturday. 
 
 
  
 
 Mumbai were already hit by the withdrawal of another Australian pace bowler, Jason Behrendroff, who was ruled out after suffering a flare-up of his serious back injury. Behrendorff has been bought at January's player auction for Rs 1.5 crore despite still recovering from his injury. 
 
 
 
 
 Cummins' withdrawal came less than a day after India's   was ruled out of the IPL season with a hamstring injury. He had been bought by CSK for Rs 7.8 crore from a base price of Rs 2 crore, offering the returning franchise a handy batsman-wicketkeeper-spinning option, and one capable of batting through the batting order and finishing chases. 
 
 Cummins' withdrawal takes the number of Australian fast bowlers to be ruled out of the ongoing IPL season to four. Apart from Behrendorff, left-arm quick   was earlier ruled with a leg injury (he had been purchased for a hefty Rs 9.40 by Kolkata Knight Riders) while Nathan Coulter-Nile was ruled out for Royal Challengers Bangalore as he recovers from a sustained injury. 
 
 Others who missed out on IPL 11 due to injury woes are South African quick   (Delhi Daredevils) with a lower back injury and New Zealand allrounder Mitchell Santner (CSK) due to a bone defect in his knee that requires surgery. 
 
 Currently, CSK's   and  ' Joffra Archer have injury niggles. Neither played the opening matches of their respective teams.
 
