GURUGRAM: Haryana has witnessed an increase of 8 square kilometres of total   in two years while Gurgaon city reported an increase of 1 square kilometre, according to the latest forest survey data compiled by the ministry of environment and forests. However, activists say that the increase is negligible. Additionally, water bodies are drying up, raising concerns for the wildlife in the state.

 According to the 2017 ‘Indian State of Forest Report’, the forest area in Haryana has increased by 0.01% only in two years, from 3.58% of its geographical area in 2015 to 3.59% in 2017. 
 
 “A net increase of eight square kilometres in forest cover in Haryana is mostly due to the increase in the tree cover outside recorded forest area. The decrease in forest covert in certain pockets is due to rotational felling,” says the report. 
 
 Very dense forest cover has increased from 27 square kilometres to 28 while open forest cover increased from 1,105 in 2015 to 1,108 in 2017.
 
 Some other districts that reported an increase in the forest cover are Gurgaon, Ambala, Bhiwani, Hisar, Faridabad, Karnal, Rewari and Sirsa. The total forest cover of Gurgaon and Mewat together is 9.3% of its total geographical area now, while it was 8.28% in 2015. The total forest cover was 8.35% during the 2011 assessment. 
 
 The moderately dense forest cover in Gurgaon is 34 square kilometres and the open forest area is 83 square kilometres. Scrub cover, on the other hand, is 17 square kilometres.
 
  
 However, the state reported a decrease of five square kilometres (24%) in water bodies within the forest area as compared to 2005. It signifies that forests are becoming drier and raises concerns for wildlife.
 
 “There has been a negligible 0.01% increase in forest cover in two years, which means it will take the state at least 200 years to achieve 1% increase of forest cover. On the other hand, many districts have reported a dip in the forest cover which is disastrous. This presents an image that is contrary to the what can be expected after the much-hyped plantation drives by the   for the past two years,” said Vivek Kamboj from Haryali, an environmental NGO.
 
 The forest officials also agreed that the increase in forest cover in the state was negligible. 
 
 “The increase in forest cover is negligible as comparison is being made with data from 2015. Two years is not sufficient time for any change to take place as the mapping is being done for a huge geographical area. As far as decrease in water bodies in forest areas is concerned, it is dangerous as the wildlife depends on these water bodies. We will submit a proposal to revamp the water bodies in forests,” said a forest official from the district forest department. 
 
 Currently, Haryana has the second lowest forest cover in India, after Punjab.
 
 
