KOLKATA: Intelligence agencies, including RAW, have alerted the Army and other security forces in   to a possible attack by   in the state. 

 The alert was issued a few days before Gangasagar Mela and is still active, sources said. The terror outfit did suffer some setbacks in the recent past but is now in resurgent mode and has plans to strike across the state to make its presence felt.
 
 “KLO is a constituent of United National Liberation Front of Western Southeast Asia, an umbrella group of outfits like Ulfa, NSCN(K), UNLF and NDFB(S). The outfit also has camps in Myanmar where ultras received training. There is information that   is out to recruit youths from several districts in north Bengal and western Assam. To establish its capabilities of taking on the state, it is planning some major strikes. This will also aid in KLO’s extortion bids,” an official said.
 
 KLO, which demands a separate homeland for Koch Rajbongshi people from around Cooch Behar, has always been a close associate of Ulfa and carried out joint operations with the outfit in Assam. It has also been used by Ulfa and other outfits from the northeastern state to link up with the Maoists operating in eastern and central India. Ulfa is also known for its links with Pakistan’s ISI.
 
 “The outfits receive support in the form of equipment and shelter from China. There is also suspicion that strikes carried out by KLO may be masterminded by organisations from across the country’s borders. Gangasagar Mela and even pilgrim camps in Kolkata and events during Republic Day may have been the original targets but the risks were high due to the high security. They could now be looking out for other targets,” the official added.
 
 KLO is against the settlement of Bengali-speaking people in the districts of north Bengal and Assam that it plans to take over. There are claims that Bangladeshi refugees are being settled there to weaken the movement. In the past, KLO has issued open threats to such settlers. 
 
 
