GURUGRAM: More than five years after two children went missing from   of India,  , a case of   was registered on a complaint filed by the shelter home authorities on Sunday. Shelter home president Shaji Ram Stephen claimed that the police swung into action only after a senior police officer in the rank of a deputy commissioner visited Shanti Bhavan Trust of India as part of a routine check in January first week.

 Ramjan (6) and Kushi alias Safool (9) had fled the shelter home in 2013. However, the shelter home authorities alleged, the cops refused to register an FIR even after Shanti Bhavan Trust staff approached them just after the boys went missing in July 2013, and later in 2014.
 
 “The staff of the shelter home had approached the police to file a complaint in 2013, but cops said no. I was out of country. After I returned to India in 2014, I also approached the police, but they refused to register a case again, claiming that a year had passed by, and it was too late to register a complaint. Earlier this month, when a deputy commissioner of police visited the shelter home, I discussed it with him, who in turn, asked the SHO, Rajendra Park police station to register the complaint. The two boys are still missing, and we have no clue about their whereabouts,” Stephen told TOI.
 
 Stephen told the police that Khushi, who is from Kolkata, was admitted to the shelter home on July 19, 2013, but he went missing after 11 days, on July 30, 2013.
 
 “He ran away from the shelter home after jumping through a bathroom window. Similarly, Ramjan was admitted to the home on September 17, 2013, but he went missing the next day, on July 31. The staff told me that he ran away from the main gate, when they opened it for cleaning,” Stephen stated in his complaint.
 
 Acting on his the complaint, police registered an FIR against unknown persons under Section 365 (kidnapping) of IPC.
 
 Ajayveer Bhadana, SHO, Rajendra Park police station, said the case is five years old, and was reported to them only on Sunday. Bhadana said soon after receiving the complaint, an FIR was registered, and the investigation is under way. 
 
 
