MANGALURU:   have arrested two persons for allegedly circulating a series of old and misleading videos and images claiming that some churches in   region have been attacked by right-wingers.

 
 The arrested are Sunil Veigas, 34, and Sachith PP, 23, residents of Kabbina Sethuve in NR Pura taluk in Chikkamagaluru. According to police, they have booked a   considering how fake news could create law and order problem in the region. The duo was arrested on Wednesday and produced before a court.
 
 Hours after BJP won seven out of eight constituencies in Dakshina Kannada and all the five in Udupi, Sunil and Sachith allegedly circulated the videos of   in Mangaluru that had taken place in September 2008. Social media posts claimed that BJP and Sangh Parivar activists attacked a church which was close to a counting centre on the counting day. The posts said that during victory celebration of the party, the workers tried to plant their flags near crucifix.
 
 
 
 
 P J James, 45, of Neriya here, suspected to have shot himself accidentally with a gun after he slipped into a river in the wee hours of Thursday. Dharmasthala police, who have booked a case, told TOI that James was the manager of an estate owned by Biju. During night, he used to roam around the estate with a loaded gun. On Thursday morning, he may have slipped and fallen inside a river near Ambatekal. It is suspected that the gun accidentally fired on him when he fell, killing him instantly. A case has been registered.
 
 
 
 
 An attempt to steal an ATM kiosk loaded with Rs 11.5 lakh was reported in Belthangady in the wee hours of Wednesday. 
 
 Some masked men, who came to the kiosk near Belthangady bus stand, sprayed some liquid on CCTVs installed in the premises. Later, they cut off power supply and the network connection to the machine and tried to tow it away using their vehicle, but failed.
 
 Police added that the miscreants fled from the spot abandoning the machine after seeing people nearby. However, no cash was stolen. A case has been registered at Belthangady police station.
 
 
