KOLKATA: The office of an NGO in   was ransacked after its members stalled a child marriage in the area on Sunday afternoon. The mob also allegedly abused and threatened a young woman, who heads the NGO. An FIR has been lodged against the mob by  , who founded   that works for rights of minority girls and women in the locality.

 Trouble started after police stalled the marriage of a 16-year-old girl from Rajabazar that was to take place on Sunday. Someone from the locality had informed the Childline by dialling 1098 about the marriage. Childline, in turn, sought police’s help.
 
 According to police, a mob of about 200 gathered at 3/8/22 Raja Dinendra Street that houses the office of Roshni Youth Group on Sunday afternoon. After ransacking the office they headed to Shahina Javed’s house located nearby and threatened her. Javed with the help of some local youths managed to escape and reach the Narkeldanga police station to lodge a complaint. 
 
 The girl, who was being married off, was a member of the Roshni Youth Group. She would regularly attend workshops and participate in activities of the organization even a year ago. Her parents had allegedly tried to marry her off a year ago. But the NGO intervened and the marriage finally did not take place. After that the girl stopped visiting the NGO’s office and also dropped out of school, allegedly under pressure from her parents. 
 
 “Am I to be blamed if the girls in this locality are becoming aware about their rights? I am being accused of brainwashing and spoiling the women and girls because our organisation works for women’s rights,” Javed said.
 
 Javed had ruffled quite a few feathers when she refused to wear a hijab. She has also been throwing her weight behind victims of domestic violence. 
 
 Recently, she formed girls’ football teams that even organized a tournament a couple of week ago. This was not taken in the right spirit by several people in the locality.
 
 “I have been criticised for encouraging girls to take up football. Recently, some locals even went to the clergy to complain that I am misleading the girls who go out in the field in shorts. But, I will not bow down come what may,” she said.
 
