 announced the name of his political party ( ) at a grand event in Madurai on Wednesday. When BT contacted actress   to talk about her father’s decision of joining   full-time, she said, “I am proud that he is following his beliefs and passion. He has my support.”

 Ask her if she thinks that her father, one of Tamil Nadu’s favourite sons, is trying to fill the void left behind by   and she replies, “In regards to my father, I feel it is about a change he wishes to see. To be honest, the void is created as an outcome of the needs of the people not being fulfilled. We all believe it’s time for change and to do that, we need to be that change like   said.” When asked if she shares her father’s ideologies, she says, “My father is an atheist and I am religious. That itself makes it clear that he has always encouraged us to come to our own conclusions and not follow anyone blindly. Having said that, I haven’t thought in detail about political ideologies yet.”
 
 The veteran actor is known to speak his mind and does not hesitate to share his views candidly — be it in his interviews or on social media. This has often landed him in the centre of many a political storm. Given the political climate these days, does she fear for her father’s well-being? “Why would I fear?" Shruti shoots back, adding, “It’s something that he believes in and is expressing it. Everybody is entitled to their opinions.”
 
 She feels his minimalism is his biggest strength. “He is a simple and humble man, who also has the courage to raise his voice in regards to social concerns. Even through his stardom, he has always maintained simplicity at his core and this (politics) will be no different. I have always admired how genuinely moved and touched he is by the affection he receives. And that to me, has been proof enough of his connection with people,” she answers.
 A lot of actors try their hands at politics, but not everyone makes a real impact. But she believes Kamal Haasan will usher in a change. “My father has always been the one to prepare practically and arduously for every important event in his life and this is one such situation. His social awareness and the manner in which he mobilised his fan clubs into functioning like social welfare organisations in the past has been astounding. His ability to express important opinions and concerns that affect us all has been evidence of his steps towards building a concrete political future. I’m extremely proud and will cheer for him all the way,” she adds.
 
 Like her parents Kamal and Sarika, Shruti, too, lives life on her own terms and follows her heart. “I’m fearless and I get that from my parents. They’ve lived that way and have kind of been an example for us. They are both independent people. Besides, I’ve always tried to be my own person and never been afraid of walking my own path. I follow my heart and instinct to choose what seems right to me. It can be a lonely road sometimes, but you have to trust yourself. It feels good when it pays off,” she says.
 
 
