SRIKAKULAM: Tribal   of the district created a   at the collectorate here on Monday by torching the relay hunger strike camp of fishermen community who have been demanding the state government to include them in ST’s list. 

 The incident created tension for almost two hours at the collectorate as the locals ran for their lives after   youth set their tent on fire. According to sources, around 4,000 tribals led by   leader V Yogi started their rally from the Arts College to the collectorate in protest against the inclusion or inclusion proposals of various communities in the ST list. The tribals raised slogans against the government at the rally. It was peaceful for the better part of the march but all hell broke loose once they reached the collectorate.
 
 Some youths stormed into the makeshift camp of the fishermen community where around 10-15 members of their clan were sitting on relay hunger strike. The slogan-shouting youths threw chairs and other material here and there before setting them on fire. The unexpected violence by the tribals caught many people unawares and as tension mounted in and around the collectorate, passers-by and locals ran for their lives.
 
 After hearing of the incident, district officials who were busy hearing the grievances of the public, rushed to the spot and tried to pacify the angry mob. But their efforts failed, collector   went to the spot and managed to calm down the angry youths. He also accepted a representation from the tribal leaders in which they decried the move to include the fishermen community in the ST list. They also demanded the exclusion of   and   from the ST list.
 
  also reached the spot and deployed a posse of cops to prevent any further escalation of the situation. He also held discussions with the agitating crowd. After the tribals left the venue, members of the fishermen community returned and staged a protest at the same spot. They gheraoed state transport minister   while he was coming out of the collectorate after attending a video conference. They gave a memorandum to the minister and asked him to punish the persons who set their camp on fire.
 
