AHMEDABAD:   ( ) probing sixteen encounters which had taken place in   between 2002 and 2006 has submitted its report to the Supreme Court in sealed cover. According to sources, the report was submitted to the apex court on February 26, 2018, and the date for hearing was kept on March 9. However, the matter was adjourned.

 Meanwhile,  , lawyer of  , father of Samir Khan Pathan, who was gunned down in an encounter in 2002 near Usmanpura Garden by crime branch officials, has submitted an application in the court to get the copy of the report submitted by the retired Supreme Court Justice H S Bedi.
 
 Yagnik confirmed that he has submitted the application in the Supreme Court. “We expect to get the copy of the report within two weeks,” said the advocate. Crime branch had claimed that Samir Khan was a Jaish-e-Mohammed terrorist and had come to eliminate a prominent politician.
 
 DSP KS Savani, who is a member of the STF, said fact finding report by IOs had been submitted to retired Justice H S Bedi about three months back.
 
 On the petition of script writer-lyricist Javed Akhtar and BG Verghese the Supreme Court ordered re investigation in encounters which had taken place in Gujarat between 2002 and 2006 , the court had directed the authorities to form an STF to reinvestigate the encounter cases and submit its report before the court.
 
 “Sohrabuddin Sheikh, Tulsiram Prajapati, Ishrat Jahan and Sadik Jamal encounter cases were excluded from the probe as they were already being probed by the Central Bureau of Investigation” said an STF source.
 
 The encounters which were included in the probe were of Salim Gagji and Jala Devipujak of Rajkot, Rafik Bapudi in Jetpur of Rajkot district, Bheema Manda Mer in Junagadh, Dungaria Machar in Pardi of Valsad district, Samir Khan Pathan in Ahmedabad, Haji Haji Ismail in Valsad, custodial death of Kasim Mir Zaffer Hussain in Ahmedabad, Anil Mishra in Pandesara in Surat, Mahesh Gadhwani in Umra of Surat, Mithu Dafer in Vasad, Kashyap Dhaka in Karelibaugh in Vadodara, Rajeshwar Pandey in Borsad of Anand, Jogindersingh Sikh in Valsad Town and Sanjay Shardaprasad in Umargam of Valsad.
 
 The after its formation, the STF was granted an extension once on March 13, 2017 for a period of one year. The tenure of this STF has already ended on March 13, 2018. “We have not yet received any official communication on the extension of STF,” said DSP Savani.
 
