PATNA: With the bifurcation of Bodh Gaya-headquartered Magadh University, the   Teachers’ Association ( ) is also in the process of its bifurcation.

 The newly-formed   will have its own nomenclature for the teachers’ association as well as for all units in the constituent and minority colleges mainly located in Patna and Nalanda districts.
 
 According to present MUTA president A K Singh Thakur, a seven-man committee headed by College of Commerce, Arts and Science Teachers’ Association general secretary Arun Kumar Jha has been set up to frame the bylaws and work out modalities for forming the new teachers’ body for Pataliputra University. 
 
 “There are 28 constituent, minority and deficit grant colleges in Pataliputra University. The new teachers’ body committee is working out in adherence to the UGC guidelines and other norms to form the teachers’ body at the earliest,” Thakur said.
 
 Thakur, a senior teacher at Patna’s A N College, said the teachers’ body committee is working under the guidelines of the Federation of University Teachers’ Association of Bihar (Futab) to frame the bylaws and give a suitable name to the teachers’ body of Pataliputra University. 
 
 “If everything goes well, the committee would submit its report in few weeks from now to the apex body of the teachers, Federation of University Service Teachers' Associations of Bihar (Fustab), and Futab to give approval to the Pataliputra University teachers’ body bylaws,” he said.
 
 He said though a final decision is yet to be taken, names like ‘Federation of Pataliputra University Teachers’, ‘Teachers’ Federation of Pataliputra University’ and ‘Pataliputra University Teachers’ Association’ are doing the rounds for the final consideration. 
 
 “The new committee is preferring ‘Federation’ keeping in view the size and large number of teachers serving at different colleges in Pataliputra University. The final decision will be unanimously taken by the committee members in consultation with the Futab and Fustab members, he said.
 
 Meanwhile, Thakur said the MUTA has postponed any kind of election for the teachers’ body at any constituent college of Pataliputra University till the formation of the new bylaws and nomenclature of the teachers’ body at the university level. 
 
 
