That time of the year is here when all you boys and girls want to look your best and fit into that favourite dress of yours. As there are not many days left for the day of love, Valentine's Day, it's time to pull up your socks and get going. Though losing those extra kilos in such a short time may be slightly tough but you can still look fit and toned with the help of power yoga.

 Power yoga is an intense workout that makes you sweat by making you move at a faster pace and not making you feel it’s taking forever. Basically, as the name suggests, power yoga is quick, intense and powerful. So here we have 10 power packed yoga moves that will help you get fit for Valentine’s Day. 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
 To perform this asana, stand straight with your feet joined and hands by your side. Now inhale and raise your arms above your head such that they become perpendicular to the floor. Now exhale and bend your knees such that your thighs become parallel to the floor. Bend a little more and come a little up, repeat the pulses 5 times. Come back to the starting position and relax.
 This posture is perfect for toning your lower body and as the name suggests, it targets your quadriceps and glutes. Performing this pose makes your lower body stronger and toned. 
 
 
 
 
 To perform this asana, stand straight with your feet together and hands by your side. Now raise your hands above your head and bend down from your lower back, your hands should be on the ground. Now stay in this position and raise one leg up and backward as much as you can. Bring your leg back and repeat the same 5 times. Repeat with the other leg.
 
 This posture increases the flexibility of and tones hamstrings, glutes and back muscles. It also helps to improve balance as we stand on a single leg while performing the whole asana. 
 
 
 
 To perform this asana, stand straight with your feet together and hands by your side, just like we did in the above two asanas. Step backward with one leg, lowering your hips until both your knees are bent at an angle of 90 degrees, simultaneously join both your hands above your head. Now pulse 5 times and come into the starting position. Repeat the same for the other leg. 
 
 This posture is perfect to tone and shed those extra kilos from your lower body. Make sure you are making 90 degree angle from both the knees so that you do not put pressure on them.
 
 
 
 
 Easy to perform, this asana is fabulous for core, sides, shoulders and back. Lie down straight on your chest, come into a plank position and grip both your palms together. Now start bending from your torso towards your right and come back to the left. Repeat this 5 times. 
 
 
 
 
 One of the best asanas for your arms, chest and shoulder, chaturangadandasana is easy to perform. Sit on your knees like you do in vajrasana, now get up from your knees and moving forward, bring your hands on the ground. Now be on your knees and do push-ups. Repeat 10 times.
 
 
 
 
 This asana targets your core and helps you in losing the extra fat around your navel region. Sit on the floor with your knees bent, feet flat on the floor and hands resting by your side. Keeping your back straight, lift your feet and lean back slightly and slowly with your hands straight in the front. Now lean back a little more and straighten your legs. Squeeze and come back. Repeat 10 times.
 
 
 
 To perform this asana, lie on your back with your knees bent and hands by your side. Now lift your torso upward such that your body is in a straight line from your knees. Stay here for 5 seconds and come back to the starting position. Repeat 10 times. 
 
 This posture works on your core, backs, glutes and hamstrings.
 
 
 
 
 To perform this asana, stand straight with your hands by your side. Now spread wide with both your legs such that your thighs become perpendicular to the floor. You can join your hands together while doing the asana. Now stay in this position and take 5 dips. 
 
 This posture targets inner thighs, which are not easy to tone, and makes your knees stronger.
 
 
 
 Come into downward dog position, now raise one leg backward and up as much as you can but without straining it and bring it back such that your knee becomes parallel to your chest. Repeat it 5 times. Do with the other leg. 
 
 This exercise works on the entire body, ranging from core, oblique, upper body to legs. 
 
 
 
 
 It’s a posture to tone sides and bring flexibility to hamstrings. To perform this asana, stand with your legs wide apart and hands straight and parallel to the floor. Now bend down and touch your right feet with your left hand and left feet from your right hand. Repeat 10 times. 
 
  
 
