KOLKATA:   has started an awareness programme to educate cyclists on traffic rules. The high number of cycle fatalities on city roads and the manner in which cyclists have continued to break rules even after the Chingrighata accident have prompted cops to start the drive from Thursday across all 25 traffic guards.

 There had been trial runs in the suburbs. “We found that cyclists tend to break all traffic laws — overshooting the stop line, not abiding by the red signal, violating oneway road rules and even talking on the mobile while cycling. We have decided to ask our men to counsel them. We have designated certain corners near important crossings where they will be stopped for a few minutes and counselled. If they are found talking on the phone, we plan to take away the device for one to two hours. We are planning monetary penalty after running this awareness programme for a few weeks,” said DC (Traffic) Sumit  .
 
 
  
 
 Police sources said the drive showed results in certain cycle-congested areas like Tiljala, Topsia and Behala. “We have even put up posters at important crossings informing cyclists that they need to follow rules just like any other vehicle on the road,” said Kumar.
 
 According to traffic police, around 3% of all accidents every year involve cyclists. In absolute numbers, that is quite a lot, claimed Lalbazar sources.
 
 For the past three years, traffic planners and police have pointed to the increase in slow-moving vehicles like rickshaws and cycles, along with illegal parking and encroachment, as reasons behind road accidents. The other reason they pointed to was negligence.
 
 Bicycles, which had been a prominent mode of transport earlier, were in 2008 classified as slow-moving transport and were prohibited on 38 major city roads.
 
 In 2012, as the Kolkata Police’s jurisdiction was extended to the city’s peripheries, bicycles were banned from 174 roads. In 2013, amended traffic regulations re-opened 112 roads to cyclists. However, the 62 roads where cycling remained prohibited included central and arterial roads. As of today, cyclists are not allowed on 70 roads in Kolkata.
 
