HYDERABAD: With an eye on polls, chief minister   is not taking any chances. He is likely to ensure the   presents an election budget, wooing all sections of people, particularly farmers, BCs, SCs, STs and minorities.

  
 Though as per schedule, the polls for the   are due in April/ May in 2019, sources said the chief minister is of the view that this could be the last budget in case of an early election in November or December or even otherwise the ruling TRS would not have time to implement schemes proposed in the budget in March-2019. The ensuing budget session of the Assembly is likely to start on March 12.   has already directed the ministers and MLAs to do their homework and prepare progress reports department wise. The ministers are giving finishing touches to their reports.
 
 “The focus of the TRS government will be to highlight its success stories with major thrust on the schemes and sops doled out so far and those to be offered. Ministers and select MLAs and MLCs will do proper homework and inform to the people of Telangana, through the floor of the Assembly and the Council, the work done, being done and further plans towards transforming the state into Bangaru Telangana,” a senior TRS leader said.
 
 The KCR government is likely to come out with a roadmap for filling up vacancies during the budget session, a crucial move to woo the unemployed youth and also silence the opposition parties, who have been going hammer and tongs against the ruling party for having failed to fill up 1.12 lakh vacancies promised by KCR. A separate budget for agriculture and allied activities will be presented. The outlay of the budget is likely to be over ₹1.60 lakh crore, including the agriculture budget.
 
 On its part, the opposition parties, including Congress and  , have decided to corner TRS on its failure to deal with unemployment, failure to distribute three-acre land each to landless Dalit family, failure to complete 2 BHK scheme.
 
 “As it is an election year, the KCR government has suddenly developed love for farmers, unemployed youth and other sections of society. Had KCR been sincere, he would have come out with crop investment scheme three years ago, filled up all vacancies by now. Farmers, unemployed youth, Dalits, tribals, who are being suppressed by ruling TRS, and the minorities will teach a befitting lesson to the TRS in the 2018-19 polls,” TPCC president N Uttam Kumar Reddy said.
 
 
