CHANDIGARH: Had   been a country, it would have ranked 8th in the Gold Coast Commonwealth Games medals table – above Olympic nations like Scotland, Jamaica, Nigeria and Malaysia. It is not for nothing that Haryana is known as India’s medal factory as its sportspersons won 22 of the 66 medals that India won at the  . Effectively, one-third of the country’s medals came from the state. Over the last two weeks, Haryana sportspersons bagged 10 gold, 6 silver and 6 bronze medals in Gold Coast.
 
 
  
 
 Besides India’s tally, Australia, England, Canada, New Zealand, South Africa and Wales are above Haryana’s count.
 
 Gender-wise, Haryana women won 7 medals – 2 gold, 3 silver and 2 bronze medals – out of the 22 medals the state won and the men got 15 medals – 8 gold, 3 silver and 4 bronze – for the country.
 
 On an expected note, wrestlers from the state were the most prolific. They won 9 medals including 4 gold, 3 silver, and 2 bronze. The grapplers were followed by the boxers, who won 7 medals, including 2 gold, 2 silver and 3 bronze medals.
 
 
 
 Shooters also did the state proud, claiming three gold at the Games. In athletics, Haryana athletes clinched 2 medals – a silver and a bronze. The last medal – a bronze – came from weightlifting.
 
 The stars of the marquee event were two teenagers. At 15, Haryana marksman Anish Bhanwala became the youngest Indian to clinch a gold medal at the Commonwealth Games. The earlier record was also created in the Gold Coast Games by Haryana shooter, Manu Bhaker, who won the yellow metal at 16. Neeraj Chopra became the third Indian man to win an athletics gold in CWG after   and Vikas Gowda, when the 20-year-old grabbed the top position in javelin throw. Two other stars from Haryana were wrestler   and boxer  , as both won gold medals. Vinesh got the top spot in a spectacular fashion. She lifted her Canadian opponent Jessica MacDonald, a former world champion, over her shoulders and slammed her on her back.
 
 Vikas also made short work of his opponent Dieudonne Ntsengue of Cameroon. In the 2014 Commonwealth Games, Haryana athletes had won 21 medals, including 5 gold, 13 silver and 3bronze. This time, not only they have bettered their 2014 performance, but they have ensured the silver lining gets a golden finish.
 
