DUBAI: Borna   broke through the rankings quickly, powering to a career-high No. 33 three years ago, at 18 years of age. A wobble followed soon enough for the Croat. The lack of competitive maturity coupled with the physical demands of the sport resulted in a knee surgery in September 2016. The 21-year-old, now stronger and sharper, is looking for another surge from where he can challenge for big titles.

 
 Coric started well at the Dubai Duty Free tennis, a tournament in which he made the semifinals in his debut in 2015, on Tuesday as he upset the fifth-seeded Richard   in 76 minutes, scoring a 6-4, 6-3 win.
 
  “It was a tricky match. I knew he was semi injured (knee), I didn't know what to expect. I was trying to focus on myself,” Coric said of his centre court encounter against a player he was scheduled to practice with on Friday last. “I know many people say that (about focusing on themselves), but I was really, really trying to do that because otherwise I could get lost in the match.”
 
 Gasquet, a former top-10 player, trailed by early breaks (1-4) in both sets, twice he broke back, but failed to hold at crucial junctures to let his younger opponent get ahead and wrap up the match.
 
 “I served very badly when I had a chance to get back into the match both times,” the 31-year-old said minutes after he left the court.
 
 The Croat said he had to work for the win. “He came back in the both sets. It was pretty good effort from him, especially because he was injured. But I managed to stay calm. I didn't panic,” Coric said, before pointing out that Gasquet was alive in the doubles draw, having won his first round match on Monday. “I was returning pretty good today, it got me through the match. I was not serving very well. I need to go and practice some serves now. It was a mixture of me returning good and him not serving so well.”
 
 Coric, who has signed on Italian super coach  , who previously worked with Novak Djokovic, and countryman Kristijan Schneider, said he had a good off season and followed it up with another couple of weeks in Italy.
 
