CHENNAI:   has started receiving power from   and   as part of an energy swapping scheme in the face of growing demand. The power utility is getting as much as 500MW from the two states and will return it to them in the form of wind power when the wind season begins. 

 "We have started getting 500MW from Punjab and Chhattisgarh on swapping basis and another 300MW on short tender from thermal units. We will be able to manage the power demand without any shortage till the wind season starts," said a senior Tangedco official. 
 
 All states have to fulfill their renewable power obligations (RPO) each year by purchasing wind and solar power to the extent of 1% or less of the total power purchase. "  has the maximum wind capacity in the country and under the swapping scheme, states which have to fulfill RPO are ready to supply power from January to April-end and get wind power between June and September," the official said. 
 
 In the last few years, Tamil Nadu has had a wind power surplus. "We have signed MoUs with northern states' discoms to provide wind power this season. The swapping scheme works under a barter system. No money changes hands," he said.
 
 Meanwhile, power demand has been on the rise even before the peak summer season. Demand since the beginning of March has been hovering around 14,800MW and Tangedco sources said that apart from the domestic demand, agriculture demand has increased due to the sanctioning of new connections under the tatkal scheme introduced last July.
 
 Compared to the same day last year, the demand has increased by 2,000MW. The discom has been able to meet the entire demand despite loss of 1,000MW from one unit of Kudankulam which was shut due to a valve problem. 
 
 "There has been a spurt in power demand after farmers were given more than 20,000 connections under the tatkal scheme," the official said. "Demand from agriculture used to be around 2,000MW but this year it is more due to power being drawn by the new connections. Domestic demand is also high, especially in the evening, as residents in major cities switch on air conditioners," said the official. 
 
 Meanwhile, Unit 2 of the   nuclear plant has been shut down. "We have some problem in the valve system of Unit 2 and therefore had to shut it down. It will take a couple of days before the unit restarts power generation," said an NPCIL official. 
 
 
