KOCHI: ‘Yesteryear’ poet Balachandran   caused a stir after he asked schools and universities to stop teaching his works as their standards had deteriorated in recent years, leading to gross misinterpretation of his works.

 “Today’s education has failed to provide the basics of language. I have come across questionnaires and works of PhD and postgraduate students that are riddled with numerous grammatical and spelling mistakes. I received a questionnaire from a PhD student who was researching on my work and it was full of absurd questions,” said the frustrated poet at a news conference on Monday.
 
 Though he admitted that these issues were bothering him for a while, a recent incident where he read a postgraduate student’s poem, riddled with spelling mistakes, forced his hand. “When I spoke to the child I realized that no teacher had bothered to correct the mistakes in school or college,” he said.
 
 He alleged that quality of teaching in universities deteriorated recently as teachers were hired on the basis of caste, religion, bribe, nepotism and political influence.
 
 He also argued that the no-detention policy has resulted in children not being able to identify their errors as it is not rectified by teachers.
 
 Education minister   said that he did not agree with Chullikkad’s statement. “Academically,   is one of the top states in India. I am sure there are areas for improvement and we are working on them from the primary level itself with the education masterplan that is being prepared to improve the quality of education,” he said, adding that there was no need to bring back the detention policy.
 
 He added that he respects Chullikkad’s work and that the poet raised the issue in a democratic fashion and that he would look into it.
 
 Meanwhile, poet   said that a writer has the right to put up a request for exempting his works from the education system.
 
 “Personally, I would not have done it this way. I don't believe that I can influence what is being done with my work once it is published. Chullikkad was probably pushed to the limit before he responded in such a way. I do agree that the quality of language among literature students have deteriorated. I have witnessed what Chullikkad is suggesting,” he said.
 
