The   on Tuesday might have cleared the film 
 
 , which is based on the life and work of Guru Nanak, for release, but it seems the problems for the producers of the film are still far away from fading. Exhibitors in   have decided not to screen the film, anticipating protests. 
While the film was to release on Friday all across the country, Delhi didn’t have any shows of the film. On Tuesday, the SC stated that the CBFC’s nod was “final” to clear the film for release. Earlier, many state governments had stayed the release of film fearing protests of hurting sentiments of people. But this time, instead of the state governments, the exhibitors have decided to take censorship in their own hands. 
 
  
  
 
  On Wednesday, many prominent multiplexes in Delhi, Noida and Gurgaon decided to not screen the movie. When asked if the film is not being released in NCR on the insistence of local Sikh groups, the exhibitors told us that they haven’t heard from Sikh groups, but other cinemas have.
 
  
  
 
 
 Citing earlier protests against a few films, exhibitors say they can’t take a risk by screening controversial films. An exhibitor says, “Cinema halls are the new protest venues. We don’t want to take the risk of groups coming to our cinema halls and vandalising them. Also, in this case, it’s a movie with a religious plot and the religious groups are directing followers to not watch the film. So the audience is niche. We will not lose anything if we do not screen it. But there’s a lot at stake if we decide to go ahead with the screening.”
 A multiplex owner, who declined to come on record, says the film is not being released this week to avoid any untoward situation. He adds, “Some members from the Sikh community have been protesting before the release of this film in   where the producers had decided to not screen it. Delhi has a huge Sikh community, we don’t want any protests here and therefore we have decided to not release it in NCR.” 
 
  
  
 
 
 While trouble was anticipated before the film’s release, no one expected that the film will not be released in NCR altogether. Another exhibitor tells us, “It’s not 
 Padmaavat
  where it can be debated whether the history was distorted or not. In any circumstance, we do not want to hurt any religious sentiments by showing the movie. We have not received any threats from any group, but we came to know that some cinema halls had discussions with Sikh Groups and therefore no one is screening the movie in NCR.”
 
  
  
  
 
 Another Delhi exhibitor says, “Not screening this movie is a precautionary measure. We would have discussed the situation with authorities or would have asked for protection like we have done several times in the past, but there’s no scenario of salvaging profits. So, we are giving the movie a miss.”
  Meanwhile, Delhi Police say they have not received any request from cinema halls regarding any protest or security threat yet.
 
  
  
 
 A multiplex owner in Gurgaon, says, “The film has been unofficially banned inPunjab. How can we show it in  ? Log toh wohi hain, protest toh honge. Besides, it’s the week when October is releasing and there are already a number of Bollywood and Hollywood films. We think, in Gurgaon, people will come to watch those films than Nanak Shah Fakir, so we are not releasing it here. There’s no point in taking a risk of disrupting all the shows just for one film.”
 Another Gurgaon based exhibitor says, “It’s already going to be a profitable weekend, we didn’t want any disturbance, so we took a business decision to not show it.”
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
