GENEVA: India aims to win its war on TB by 2025, but the goal seems too far-fetched. With an estimated 1.2 lakh detections, India reported the highest number of childhood TB cases (0-14 years) in 2016, according to a report presented on Wednesday by the   and Lung Disease at the ongoing   in Geneva. China, second on the list, reported less than half of India’s incidences, leaving little room for the population argument.

 
 The report, ‘The Silent Epidemic: A Call to Action Against Child TB’, stated that less than 2% of the 3.6 lakh children with latent TB in India who are eligible for preventive therapy as per WHO guidelines actually got it. An estimated one million children the world over develop TB every year, of whom nearly one in four dies. The report said a staggering 90% of children suffering from TB worldwide are left untreated and India is no exception. The crisis is underlined by the fact that despite childhood TB accounting for 10% of the overall incidence, it contributes to 16% of deaths globally. The findings assume significance given that TB would be discussed for the first time by heads of state at the   in September.
 
 “Within global public health, it is an open secret that health systems neglect children with TB because children are less contagious than adults, and because the standard tools used to diagnose TB work less well in children. Many governments, therefore, classify children as a low priority,” said Dr  , scientific director of the union. She said children with TB rarely die, including those suffering from the multi-drug resistant form, when they get the standard treatment on time.
 
 The situation gets particularly grimmer for children under the age of five if they are left untreated. The union report states that young children can suffer from complications and spread of the disease outside of lungs, such as bones, the brain and joints, making it even more challenging to treat. Besides the hurdles around prevention and treatment, there is also the challenge of making a definitive diagnosis. “Since children find it difficult to produce or give sputum, alternative options such as gastric lavage (stomach wash) or bronchoscopy has to be done to get respiratory secretions,” said Dr Tanu Singhal, consultant paediatric infectious disease expert at Kokilaben Ambani Hospital. 
 
