NEW DELHI: A cop on patrol in west Delhi’s Kirti Nagar was beaten up by two men and two women for asking them not to drink in the open. One of the accused men is handicapped and used his crutches to beat the cop until he collapsed.

 Two teenagers, who are enrolled in the Yuva scheme of  , recognised the policemen as their trainer and rushed to his rescue.
 
  The incident took place on Friday night when the cop was patrolling the area looking for vehicle thieves. He saw a couple of people standing near a washroom talking loudly and consuming liquor.
 
 “A few elderly men passing by commented on their behaviour, but the men refused to pay any heed. I asked them to stop and when they refused I told them to go to their houses and drink,” said the victim, constable Ram  .
 
  The men first hurled abuses at Swaroop and then threatened to attack him. “The men were heavily drunk. When I told them to leave the place sternly, the handicapped man swung his crutches at me and it hit my neck after which I fell,” said the cop.
 
 Seeing him fall, the men started shouting and a few men and two women gathered there and started hitting Swaroop. The policeman could not retaliate due to the presence of the women. The men took advantage of this and kept hitting him. Before Swaroop could call for reinforcements, the two teenagers, whom he trains at Kirti Nagar police station, rushed to the spot after seeing the commotion. After recognising the constable, they pounced on the men hitting him and also raised an alarm. Their fathers,   and  , joined the youths and stopped the accused men from thrashing Swaroop. One of the youths soon called the PCR after which a police team rushed to the spot. The injured constable was taken to   for treatment.
 
 A case under IPC sections 186 (obstructing public servant in discharge of public functions), 353 (assault or criminal force to deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to deter public servant from his duty), 506 (punishment for criminal intimidation) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) has been registered at Kirti Nagar police station, said a senior police officer.
 
 The accused men, identified as Vikram (37) and Bharat (2), and the women,   (24) and Santosh (34), have been arrested. Police are planning to reward the two students.
 
