NEW DELHI: Prime Minister   on Wednesday exhorted   MPs and elected representatives to “expose” those handful of people who had “throttled” democracy by stalling   proceedings during the budget session.

 
 “The people who couldn’t gain power in 2014 don’t want the country to move forward. They didn’t let Parliament work for a single day. They killed democracy and we will observe a fast to bring their crime in front of the world. I will also fast. But I will continue my work,” Modi said while interacting with party MPs through teleconferencing on the occasion of social reformer Jyotiba Phule’s birth anniversary. The party observed the day as ‘Samata Diwas’. 
 
 Modi will lead around 2,000 BJP lawmakers including MPs, MLAs and MLCs in a day-long fast on Thursday at 600 district headquarters across the country to mark their protest against the recent Parliament washout. 
 
 He asked party leaders to hold interactions with the public and media during the fast to “expose” Congress for the Parliament deadlock. Being on fast, Modi will travel to Tamil Nadu to inaugurate Defence Expo, a biennial exhibition of weapons and military hardware, in Thiruvidanthai near Chennai.
 
 Most ministers including   MPs will be in various districts along with local leaders to sit on fast as the party has directed lawmakers to tell people that the House was not allowed to function by Congress. The BJP’s fast comes after Congress’s recent fast against violence during the bandh called by Dalit organisations, which turned out to be an embarrassment for the party as some of its “fasting” leaders were seen having breakfast. 
 
 Home minister Rajnath Singh, petroleum minister Dharmendra Pradhan and commerce minister Suresh Prabhu will observe the fast in Delhi. Health minister J P Nadda will be in Modi’s constituency Varanasi while law minister Ravi Shankar Prasad will go to Patna. Defence minister Nirmala Sitharaman will be in Chennai, HRD minister Prakash Javadekar in Benguluru, Vijay Goel in Tamil Nadu and M J Akbar in Vidisha. Tourism minister K J Alphons will hold the fast in Kerala.
 
 
 
 
