NAGPUR: Aiming to highlight the importance of reading and spending time with family, Jain International School (JIS) organized a reading fest ‘Fascinating World of Books’ at its Katol Road branch on Sunday. Over 415 people, including children and parents, participated in the event which focused on triggering curiosity in the young minds through literature apart from enjoying some quality time with family.

 Parents alongside their wards were seated on the lush-lawns, in a picnic-style gathering with the atmosphere filled with the aura of noted literary figures and their narratives. 
 
 “With the world pacing towards an era of technological advancement, book-reading is a lost art in the younger generation. Though one can always find avid book-lovers and storytellers but the concept of reading as a learning process has lost its significance. This event specifically focuses on helping children develop the habit of reading without having to feel the burden of running in a competition and also help parents catch along some time with their families and the books they could not read because of their busy schedule,” said Anmol Badjatia, principal, JIS.
 
 The festival was a treat for the booklovers as several popular creations comprising comics of Marvel, DC and novels by legendary writers such as Rabindranath Tagore, Agatha Christie, Paolo Coelho and many more found their ways into the hands of the participants.
 
 Speaking about the unique initiative, Badjatia, added, “Reading has been reduced to an academic virtue and students cannot acknowledge its significance. Hence, we provide them with family time, wherein they are not under the scanner and learning is a staircase. It is amazing to see parents taking as much interest in the initiative as the little ones, with some donning the role of storytellers and some being engrossed in the books themselves.”
 
 One of the parents, Namita Sinha adds, “Books open possibilities through which one can understand the various perspectives of life. The initiative is great and will help children realize the various concepts of life and will enhance their personality making them better citizens and open-minded individuals.”
 
 Organizer of the fest, Kiran Joshi, added, “Nuclear families are increasing and family time is decreasing. Clubbing learning and family together, this event works to provide exposure to young minds about different forms of art and educate themselves. With books ranging across different age groups, the students can have fun in the literary world and family at the same time.”
 
 The event also saw some storytelling sessions ‘Wisdom Tree’ by teachers who narrated different stories, garnering the emotions and personifying the literary characters to life.
 
 
