GURUGRAM: A proposal, seeking exemption of property taxes for villages within  , will be tabled in the   House meeting this Wednesday. This, even as anger over payment of property taxes is brewing among thousands of residents in privately developed residential colonies and the new sectors.

 According to an official release, like Delhi, the proposal will seek exemption from property taxes for all villages within MCG limits. 
 
 Once it is passed by the House, it will be sent to the state government for consideration.
 
 “Earlier, houses on plots of size less that 100 sq yd were exempted from paying property taxes. We want to restart that practice by identifying all such properties. Additionally, exemptions will also be proposed for houses owned by widows and disabled people,” said Mayor Madhu Azad.
 
 The issue of property taxes has been festering for a while. On one hand, those living in villages have been seeking exemptions, while on the other, residents of developer colonies such as DLF 1-3, Sushant Lok 1 and Nirvana Country, have often questioned the justification behind MCG collecting property taxes from them, when it does not undertake any development work in their areas. As of now, MCG only provides services like construction and repair of roads and water supply in these areas. 
 
 Besides   exemptions for villagers, there are many other issues listed for discussion in the House meeting. 
 
 “We will submit a proposal for developing a   of international standards, so that the city’s sports-persons get the best training facilities and are motivated to perform better in national and international tournaments,” said Azad.
 
 The Mayor further said the government has brought down the restricted zone around the ammunition depot from 900m to 300m, and will draw up a plan to ensure basic services such as water and sewerage for residents in the remaining 600m area surrounding it.
 
 The House meeting will also discuss restoring the outsize statues of Guru Dronacharya and the five Pandavas, which had to be removed to facilitate the construction of the underpass at Rajiv Chowk. 
 
 The status of unauthorised colonies which the state government has ordered to be regularised will also be brought up.
 
 
