A series of unfortunate events unfolded last week, making the people who bring us the news become the news themselves.

 A prominent actor/politician created a furore when he chose to share an inflammatory post written by a third party on his social media account. That post made a sweeping accusation that most, if not all, women journalists had climbed up the ladder of success by first climbing onto the casting couch. I am unable to find strong enough words to express how horrified and distressed it made me feel to read that inhumane post which tainted all the progress and success that talented hardworking women in the media had worked relentlessly to achieve. I condemn the sick minds that reduce women to nothing more than pawns in a man's scheme of things. I condemn the mentality that believes women cannot get anywhere without a man’s auspices. I condemn sexualising and denigrating the honest path-breaking hardwork by brave women everywhere, who have succeeded despite the harassment and misogyny they had to face.
 
 I personally know and admire several outstanding women in media, who have consistently pushed boundaries with their pens and shattered the glass ceiling by dint of their undeniable skill, resilience and integrity. Their work is there in the public domain for all of us to see. These women continue to shape the way we see and understand the world around us. To dismiss their success as scraps dealt to them by lecherous men in return for sexual favours is an insult to not just the women who worked hard to get where they are, but also to the honest men who work alongside them.
 
 In every field, there will be some who deserve their success less than the others. There will be people who cheat to succeed, and others who use their positions to demand quid pro quos from their protege. There will be instances of favouritism, nepotism, and scandal. There will be these exceptions that define the norm. To malign an entire industry based on stray instances is the worst type of chauvinism. 
 
 A chauvinism that the media is squarely guilty of strengthening. With all due sympathy, I say this to my sisters in the media — the misogyny you faced last week is what we, your sisters in the movie industry, receive day-in day-out from your fellow scribes. Journalists have always felt free to speculate and generalise on the personal integrity of actresses and other women in the movie industry with absolutely no compunction. You have revelled in hooking up co-stars, cooking up affairs, and creating scandal where there was none. I myself have been the victim of some extremely enduring malicious gossip, which was created entirely by an unscrupulous writer with a word processor and a warped mind. 
 
 Where was your sense of outrage all these years? Where was your sense of propriety? Why did you choose to be mute spectators or even active participants in a vile game which paints all women in the film industry as ambitious harlots and all men as opportunistic predators? 
 
 For as long as I can remember, and from even before that, women in the movie industry have been under media scrutiny more for their alleged behind-the-screen machination than for their legitimate contributions. The press has built careers and businesses by spinning tales about the rampant hedonism in the movie industry. How is it fair that you, with a single stroke of your pen, reduce our hard-won success to a bedroom deal? Isn’t this picture just as skewed as the one that accuses women journalists of sleeping their way to the top? Could anyone honestly claim that sexual misconduct is more in one field and less in another? 
 
 Why does every interview always incorporate a casting couch question?
 
 I know my question will arouse the righteous indignation in some of you. I can even predict the first response — “The media only presents what movie people themselves tell us. What about Sri Reddy, What about Suchi, what about Saroj Khan, what about all the me-toos?” I agree. Thing is, whistleblowers in movies become news write-ups. There are certainly whistleblowers in the newsroom, they don’t become movies. They don’t even become news. The big expose is always about the ‘deep dark secrets of the cinema world…’. How come there is really never an expose of the harassments women have to face in the media world? It exists. In a world where PhD students and eight-year-old children face harassment, it will be a white lie to deny any wrong doing in the press field. Shall we assume that it is not widely written about, not because of an unspoken pact of silence, but because the women in media today are sufficiently empowered to deal with it without seeking public remedy? If it is so, then please acknowledge that successful women in the movie industry owe it to their determination and strength against harassment, not complicity. When we speak up against the injustice we face at work, speak up for us, not behind our backs. When we succeed, celebrate, not speculate. And when there is an unfair libellous attack on one of us, do not defend one of your journalistic kin. Fight for a fellow working woman. 
 
 It hurts equally when the shoe is on the other foot. We stand with you today. I hope you will stand by us from now on. 
 
 (Views expressed above are the author’s own)
 
 
 
 
  
 
