MADURAI: The 12-member committee formed to study the damage caused by the fire that broke out in the   temple last Friday night, made its maiden visit to the temple. After assessing it, the committee members opined that the damage caused by the fire was extensive and that the safety and stability of the Veera Vasantharayar Mandapam, where the fire broke out, is affected. 

 However, the team confirmed that the fire did not cause any damage to the 1000-pillar hall, which houses a lot of intricately designed pillars, rare carvings and a museum with centuries-old artefacts.
 
 The fire, which was first noticed at around 10.20pm, was put out around 1am on Saturday. By that time it had done enough damage to the mandapam. Apart from close to 30 shops which were gutted in the incident, around 7,000sqft of the mandapam was extensively damaged. The total area of the mandapam is around 20,000sqft. 
 
 The committee said that it was riskier to even walk around the damaged areas to take a closer look, as they were heavily damaged. So, it said that salvage works need to be undertaken first. For that, the debris has to be cleared. At present, the clearance is taking place in full swung, they said. 
 
 At the end of the inspection, which lasted for hours, the committee members spoke to reporters.  , associate professor of department of civil engineering from   said the damage caused by the fire to the mandapam was extensive and it has threatened the safety and stability. He said, “We have assessed the critical locations in the mandapam. The first thing we need to do is to secure them. The site has to be cleared to understand the extent of the damage.” 
 
 In the next few meetings and phases, the committee will carryout the documentation process. Meanwhile, it will take up work on propping up the entire structure. Preservation and conservation of the existing structure is their top priority, Arun added.
 
 Karumuttu T  , another member said that their terms of reference would be on four areas including safety of the temple, repairing the damaged areas and to find out the stability. The temple fund would be used for the restoration and work would start as soon as possible. 
 
 When asked whether the temple authorities would clear the shops inside the temple, Kannan said they want to evict them since they pose a threat to the safety of the temple. 
 
 
