Singer  , who was the runner-up of Star Singer’s 2009-10 edition, is now gearing up to make his debut as a music director in scriptwriter-turned-filmmaker Sethu’s upcoming movie  . The 27-year-old from Palakkad, who has enjoyed immense support from the audience during his reality show stint, is now also enjoying the backing of none other than   for the movie.

 Sreenath talks to us about his debut venture, why it took so long for him to be active in the film industry and more:
 
 
 Mammukka is someone who gives a lot of opportunities and support to new talent. I personally didn’t know him before this movie. I was always a huge fan and wanted to compose music for his movies even before this chance beckoned. Unniettan (Unni Mukundan) is like a brother to me and had heard a few samples of my compositions. He was the one who referred me to Sethuettan and that’s how I got connected to Mammukka. He heard the samples and in his trademark style told me, “It’s come out well.” I am now waiting to finish the final tracks to get him to listen to them.
 
 
 Yes. I did my MBA in Tamil Nadu. I didn’t want anyone to ask me why I didn’t pursue my academics so I decided to complete that first. While studying, I had also done shows with MG Sreekumar chettan, Sarath sir and KS Chitra chechi. That was a blessing because I got to learn how to present a song on stage. When you are performing live, you get to interact with the audience a lot more and also understand their tastes in music.
 
 My idea of good music is that once you hear the song, you should be able to hum the tune instantly. I believe that if a song is chosen for a ganamela, it’s a success, because that’s when people repeatedly hear and sing it. So, being part of shows helped me understand those aspects better.
 
 Cinema, however, has always been my passion and I have wanted to be part of it, in any form – as a singer or music director. I am someone who, while watching a film, pays attention to the background score, script and even direction. I wanted to sing for movies but the dream was also to contribute creatively to the industry. Fortunately, I am blessed with this huge opportunity.
 
 
 Sethuettan had given me the freedom to come up with my music, taking my own sweet time. It’s a project that has a lot of space for songs and that is something few first-time music directors are blessed with. It’s got five different songs and all of them suit particular situations in the film. I could show my range with the set of tracks as it has got upbeat numbers as well as melodies. Also, I now have the opportunity to make brilliant singers such as  , Haricharan and Shreya Ghoshal sing for the movie.
 
 
 The recordings will all happen only this week. I have a done a few shows with them so I know them. They were all extremely supportive and were game when I told them I am becoming a music director and want them for the project. I, personally, want this project to be outstanding and I want the people to take up these songs and make it popular.
 
 
 When a song is trending, there is always a tendency to make more such music. However, as I had starting composing almost a year ago, I had finished the demos of all the tracks and didn’t have to change anything. I love folk songs. Those are the tracks that become popular with the people. If we have a solid base on folk songs, we can always improvise. There is also a peppy song in the film for which I have written the lyrics.
 
