PONDA: The water resources department (WRD) is of the view that diversion of   waters would badly hit the water requirements of   and Tiswadi, while minister for art and culture   also expressed apprehension that his Priol constituency would face a water crisis if the diversion is allowed.

 The water diversion could adversely affect the proposed 25-MLD water plant in Ganjem, thus leading to water scarcity in almost entire Priol constituency, Gaude who is the independent MLA of Priol, said.
 
 “Priol reels under a water crisis and its only hope is the proposed water treatment plant at Ganjem on the Mhadei river. If the water is diverted to Karnataka, the river basin at Ganjem would be affected,” the minister explained.
 
 WRD principal chief engineer   said that the greater impact of the diversion would be seen in Goa, especially in Ponda and Tiswadi talukas, both of which are directly dependent on water from the River Opa. A diversion of Mhadei water would not only affect the rivulets at Usgao-Ganjem, but also the Opa or Khandepar River.
 
 “The Ganjem basin would be affected if water is diverted from Surla. But it can also affect the Opa river if the Mhadei water is blocked at Supa. Karnataka is planning to construct 12 dams on all tributaries of Mhadei to divert water to the Malaprabha and Supa reservoirs,” Nadkarni said.
 
 An activist from Sattari said the Karnataka has plans to divert a total of 225 MCM from Mhadei to Malaprabha basin and an additional 112 MCM from Khandepar river, which is popular for the scenic Dudhsagar waterfall, to Supa reservoir in   basin.
 
 The Mandovi river basin in Goa occupies 43% of the state’s geographical area, with 192 villages of Sattari, Sanguem, Bicholim, Tiswadi, Bardez and Ponda that has cultivable land to an extent of 91,072 ha. 
 
 According to Gaude, crores of rupees spent on Ganjem water treatment plant would go to waste as the plant would be rendered useless if the river dries up. This would directly affect Priol constituency as the plant has been planned to specifically supply water to Priol. 
 
  Five constituencies from Tiswadi -  , Taleigao, St Andre, St Cruz and Cumbharjua, including Bambolim defence areas and new colony at Bainguinim would face an acute water crisis.
 
 
