KOCHI: The strike called by the Kerala government   association (KGMOA) affected the patients in specialized outpatient wards in the   general hospital. Many patients who reported to casualty on Monday were left unattended and had to seek other means for treatment after they realized that there weren’t enough doctors to attend them.
Though the statewide indefinite strike, which began on April 13, affected the functioning of the hospital, contract doctors in the general OP attended to emergencies and patients who reported at casualty.
 
 Seven-year-old Adrian was running a high fever when his father rushed him to the general hospital, unaware that the doctors were on strike. “We came from Kaloor and waited for an hour in the casualty. Then they informed that there are no doctors to attend us so we went to the general OP, hoping to see a doctor,” said Adrian’s father.
 
 Mohammed, a 10-year-old, from Fort Kochi showed up with his mother and sister, to seek treatment for his stomach pain. According to his mother, after consultation, they were advised that Mohammed should undergo a surgery. “We can manage with the medicines for now but after that we are not sure what to do because of the strike,” said Mohammed’s sister.
 
 “We knew about the strike but never thought it would cause problems for us,” she said.
 
 Chandravi and her husband from Vallarpadom came to the hospital to seek medical attention after her fingers got crushed between hinges of a door. “We knew about the strike but never thought we would have to wait for so long to see a doctor. It was a waste of our time and money,” said Chandravi.
 
 Old and fragile Saramma came alone all the way from Bolgatty island because she was suffering from severe leg pain. “I don’t know why the doctors are playing with lives of others. There are people like me who depend on them completely. There is nothing else I can do but pray now,” said Saramma.
 
 Rahul, a 33-year-old patient, who visited the hospital to seek treatment for cough said he did not face any trouble because of the strike. “I could see the doctor and got my medicines,” said Rahul. But the hospital was less crowded due to lack of doctors, he said.
 
