PATIALA: In the era of firearms and gangwars, what if you hear sounds of several gunshots in a marriage party or at some social or public gathering and police fails to trace the used cartridge/s and the accused as well? Don’t worry, a study conducted by researchers of forensic science may prove helpful to crime agencies in investigation of such cases. Some researchers of   have developed the software that just needs a sound recording of fired gunshots to classify and individualize the firearm used at the crime spot.

 The gunshot sound recorded in a phone call or a simple recorder or sound in the video at any social function or another place near the crime spot would be enough for a detective agency to track the firearm used in a crime. As many as 20 different types of firearms, including handguns and shoulder arms of different models and calibres or bore, were used to conduct the study over the classification and individualization of firearms from their gunshot sounds. A minimum four rounds of gunshots from each firearm were recorded at an indoor firing range by forensic researchers. 
 
 Two models of each weapon, which included 0.32-bore revolver, 7.65mm pistol, 9mm pistol, 0.38-bore and 0.45-bore revolvers, .12-bore shotgun, 0.315-bore rifle, 9mm carbine and AK-47, were used to conduct the study. A total three rounds each from five different firearms having the same calibres were fired to study the inter and intra-variations of gunshot sounds of different firearms, whereas 24 gunshots were fired from eight different firearms to study the individualization of firearms from their recorded gunshot sounds.
 
 “We conducted a study to classify and individualize the recorded gunshot patterns of 20 different firearms frequently involved in various crimes in the country. The research work related to this is very less. The acoustic characterization of a gunshot sound is the unique part of the research and now we will soon upload this database or software online, so that it may become useful for the detective agencies,” said Mukesh  , a professor in the forensic science department at Punjabi University.
 
 “The gunshot sounds were recorded on a CD using recorder TASCAM while the microphone was spaced 40cm apart and placed at the same level and perpendicular to the muzzle of the barrel. The digitized gunshot sound samples were analysed by using Multispeech Software for study of wave morphology while Matlab and R Language software were used for further classification, individualization and validation of the firearms. 
 
 The analysis of gunshot sound samples were carried out using Principal Component Analysis (PCA) and Linear Discriminant Analysis (LDA) techniques. “The gunshot sound, also known as muzzle blast, is produced when the hot gases come out of the muzzle with very high velocity. A gunshot produces a very loud sound impulse but for a very short duration. If this gunshot sound is recorded, it can become an important physical evidence for the investigator to identify the weapon used in the crime,” he added.
 
 The study was conducted by  , junior scientific officer at   (CFSL) here, under the supervision of professor Thakar at Punjabi University’s forensic science department and co-supervision of Dr   director, CFSL.
 
 
