MYSURU: After he campaigned at Hegga Devana Kote (HD Kote), chief minister   on Sunday stopped in   constituency, where he is contesting the elections from, touring some villages. However, former CM and JD(S) state president   campaigned at the segment throughout the day, appealing to voters to support the party’s candidate  .

 Kumaraswamy is contesting the assembly elections from two segments – Ramanagara and Channapatna – and yet, he has focused his energies mostly on winning the Chamundeshwari segment. The former CM, who returned to Mysuru after five days – he had taken a break to file his nomination papers in Ramanagara district – he toured the assembly segment in Mysuru with visible zeal, as the JD(S) makes a determined bid to retain the seat, the contest for which now appears to have turned into a prestige battle with the CM.
 
 Kumaraswamy held roadshows in suburban pockets of the segment, starting from Jayadeva Nagar. Accompanied by the party’s candidate Devegowda, Kumaraswamy visited those pockets in the segment where the JD(S) has a strong presence. In the course of three days – between April 14 and 16 — Kumaraswamy visited more than a 100 villages during a three-day tour of the segment. During the famous 2006 bypoll, Kumaraswamy, then the CM, had camped in Chamundeshwari. In what was one of his toughest electoral battles, Siddaramaiah managed to win the polls by a narrow margin.
 
 Returning to campaign at Chamundeshwari after a two-day gap, Siddaramaiah held a roadshow starting from Yelwal. The Yelwal hobli is one of the CM’s more vulnerable pockets in Mysuru taluk. The CM’s roadshow passed through Bommenahalli, Lingadevara Koppal, Bhadregowda Koppal, Chikkegowdana Koppal and Halekamana Koppal.
 
 Siddaramaiah’s poll managers said that he could visit six important villages in Chamundeshwari segment, which he could not make time for in the first phase of his campaign here. “The CM has toured all major villages and urban areas in the segment, and will shift his focus to the rest of the state soon. He is unlikely to return to Chamundeshwari till the very end of the campaign,” one of his managers said.
 
 
