Hoshiarpur: It was an image of Badshahi mosque in Lahore, which excited a differently abled Pakistani boy, now around 18 and lodged here in the observation home for the last over three years. Later, he also identified Pakistani currency and cricket players. The boy was brought here after he was caught by the BSF at Dera Baba Nanak in November 2014 for crossing border.

 As senior officials of the International Committee of Red Cross (ICRC) in India and Indian Red Cross Society (IRCS) visited the boy, along with BJP national vice-president and IRCS’s vice-chairman Avinash Rai Khanna and a sign language expert, the teenager boy expressed a strong desire to return home.
 
 “I showed him several pictures, including those from different parts of India, and he identified the images of Pakistani currency notes, photographs of Pakitsani cricket players and when I showed him the image of the Badshahi mosque, he jumped with excitement. Then I tried to know more from him about it and he conveyed that their family visited it often in a car,” revealed Meenu Rani, who teaches at Parkash Memorial Deaf and Dumb School, Ropar. “He did not know the sign language but he communicated through the instinctive signs after looking at the images. He expressed his sadness for having left his home when the gate was open,” she revealed.
 
 It took over three hours to communicate with the child and to understand some basic things about his nationality and the area where he lived. “This meeting was arranged to know more about the boy and also to take his consent that he wanted to return home. Now, Red Cross officials will communicate with Pakistan Red Crescent officials to help the boy reunite with his family,” said Khanna. It seems that he hails from Lahore or from a nearby town. 
 
 Later, senior Red Cross officials met the boy and tried to communicate with him through signs and images to know more about him. Khanna was accompanied by ICRC’s Sudhakar Pecheti, who looks after Restoring Family Links (RFL), and IRCS projector coordinator Cyriac Cherian. 
 
 It took three years for the authorities in Punjab to release this lost boy’s photograph, that too only after Khanna intervened and the observation home authorities sought permission from the Juvenile Justice Board, Gurdaspur. As the boy could not reveal anything about his identity for being differently abled, the official machinery did not release his photograph all these years, which could have helped to reunite him with his family. His picture was released in the second week of this month.
 
 
