KOTA: An income tax officer and four others were found guilty of violating Section 42 that defined the purchase of agriculture land belonging to scheduled caste community as ‘illegal’.

 J K Chandnani, who had served as income tax officer in Bundi from 1999 to 2001, and is currently posted as income tax commissioner in Surat, had come under   lens for purchase of agriculture land under his wife’s name from people of Majhabi Sikh community, a community under schedule caste (SC), whose land cannot be purchased by a person of general community. 
 
 When contacted, Chandnani said, he was not aware about any inquiry. “The land I purchased was owned by someone from the general category, which I had verified through RTI,” he said. 
 
 Following CBI directions, Bundi district collector forwarded the inquiry to tehsildar Bundi, who in his report submitted to Bundi collector on April 20 with the dispatch number 173/20/04, stated the record of land concerned mentions the ownership to a Majhabi Sikh, a community under schedule caste and sale of the same land to people of ‘other community’ violates section 42. The record of the land concerned to the successor was somehow altered to only ‘Sikh’ dropping prefix Majhabi.
 
 Such a  , according to legal expert stands illegal and diluted in favour of the government. CBI’s state head office at Jaipur had directed Bundi district collector to initiate inquiry and necessary action to complaint no. CA/JAI/2017/0473 of SPE Jaipur, filed by one Ramphool Mehara, a resident of Bundi city. In his complaint to CBI, Mehara alleged the then ITO in Bundi, Chandnani and Madan Gopal Sharma, a trader and 3-4 other influential businessmen in 2010-11 purchased around 35 bighas of agriculture land in Sanwalpura village under Gadegal Patwar in Namana area of Bundi district from the people of Majhabi Sikh community at a very low price. 
 
 Mehara in his complaint to CBI alleged Chandnani and the grain mandi traders violated norms for transfer of SC/ST land to general category and committed punishable offence to gain property beyond source of income.
 
 
