PANAJI/POINGUINIM: Traditional fishermen from   have raised concerns over the fate of their livelihood as they fear reclamation of a part of   for a bridge may not only restrict their activities but also affect marine ecology.

 The   (PWD) is constructing a bridge across Galgibaga in the north to Babrem, Maxem, in the south as part of the project to reduce the circuitous route of NH 66 to just 7.7km through a large stretch of the   taluka.
 
 
 Earlier, three bridges—a 450-m one across River Talpona, a 500-m one across River Galgibaga, and a 100-m one over River Maxem—were proposed. Opposition from the people of Maxem over reclamation activity led to the plan being withdrawn and a single 1-km-long bridge being proposed to minimise ecological damage.
 
 The PWD’s mud-filling of the eastern bank of Maxem river, which meets Galgibaga river in the bay before emptying into Arabian Sea, has changed the shape of the river, say fishermen. “We have been involved in traditional fishing for several years. But the illegal filling of the river has already affected our livelihood,” Romano Dias, a local fishermen, said.
 
 Some vessels can be seen hauled up on the river’s banks. A 100-metre sand bar that has formed in the river channel, where both rivers flow into the sea after meeting each other, has also affected fishing activities.
 
 While the PWD has already removed huge quantities of the mud from the channel and has assured to restore the depth in reclaimed area as best as it can, fishermen have demanded at least a ten metre vertical clearance for the bridge with adequate gaps in pillars for navigation of their fishing vessels.
 
 Antonio Mascarenhas, then expert member of the   (GCZMA) had, in a 2015 inspection report, stated, “It is well-known that any impediment within a water body alters and affects river flow and tidal current patterns.”
 
 PWD assistant engineer Laxmikant Naik has assured to restore the reclaimed area. “Whatever earth has been dumped will be removed before commissioning of the project by November-December 2018,” he said.
 
