Welcome to the Indian summer. It’s hot, it’s not happening and it’s definitely not haute, with most Indian cities experiencing nine months of summer where the sun beats down and saps all thoughts of style from your mind. So is   an oxymoron? Not really. But what you need is to tweak your style sense, as the biggest fashion faux pas you can make is following a trend while looking visibly uncomfortable doing so. “Being comfortable is an important part of owning your OOTD (outfit of the day) and with the growing popularity of trends like unisex, sports luxe and shape shifters, finding that perfect combination of simple and sassy is easy,” says designer  . 

 
 Comfort fit may be a relaxing style but it’s different from oversized. Simply put, comfort fit fits well, falls well and doesn’t require constant adjusting – but at the same time is not body hugging. Designer Karn Malhotra explains, “Not contoured to the body does not mean poorly fit. Well-styled and well-fitted silhouettes like straighter fits, dropped shoulders, and even well-draped styles fall in the comfort-fit category provided they allow you to sit, move, dance etc with ease.” 
 
 Designer   mentions that anti-fits are ideal for the Indian summer as they let your skin breathe and feel fresh all day long. She adds, “If they are cleverly constructed, they can conceal figure flaws too.” Keep your fabric light for these fits like lightweight cotton, viscose, rayon, khadi, mulmul, chiffon and georgettes.
 
 
 Figure-hugging clothes can cause friction between the garment and your skin leading to sweat and discomfort – not something you want in the sweltering summer heat. Designer Chandni Sahi says that to get the fit right, make sure it’s snug at the waist or arm. 
 
 Here’s what you can pick: shift dresses, angrakha style cotton kurtas, maxi dresses, kaftans, tunics, A-line shirts, culottes, baggy or dhoti pants, harem pants, drop-crotch trousers, paperbag trousers and off 
 shoulder and cold shoulder tops. 
 
 Designer   advises that for summer, switch your regular cigarette pants with cropped pyjama pants. “Pair them with short or long kurtas,” she adds. Other bottom wear picks are calf-length pants, sack pants or shorts. Accent sleeves is a big trend – the roomier the better. So this summer, be comfortable to stay chic.
 
 "Pick palazzos, not tight-fitted pants or jeans. Poncho tops instead of corsets. Wear long mulmul kurtas and not tight sheath dresses. Go for unlined jackets and flat sandals instead of closed shoes." —  , designer
 
  
  
 
 
 Cinching an anti-fit outfit with a broad belt adds definition
 
 
 Try sheer fabrics with botanical embroideries in tonal sorbet hues
 
 
 Pick shorts in summery fabrics paired with long or mid-length tunics
 
 
 Mix up sportswear with casual day dressing
 
 
 Wear shift and A-line short dresses in soft colours, add sandals for a striking impact
 
 
 Long skirts with stylish slits can keep you airy and on-trend
 
 
