MADURAI: The recent amendment to bring down the pecuniary value of commercial disputes from 1 crore to 3 lakh has to be examined as it may defeat the very purpose of the Commercial Courts, Commercial Division and Commercial Appellate Division of the High Courts Act, said chief justice Indira Banerjee of the Madras high court. She was speaking at the two-day national conference organised by the Madras high court and the   (TNSJA) here.

 As per the act, to resolve commercial disputes wherein the specified value is not less than 1 crore, the state governments will establish commercial courts at the district level and the chief justices of the high courts will establish the commercial and commercial appellate divisions in their respective high courts. The amendment, passed by Union cabinet chaired by Prime Minister  , has brought down the specified value of disputes to 3 lakh.
 
 “The proposal has to be examined because it may defeat the very purpose of the act. The bill changes not only the structure of the forums to decide disputes, but also the time stipulation in deciding the disputes,” the chief justice said in her address.
 
 Indira Banerjee said that the economic health of the country depends on trade, commerce and industry which involves investment, infrastructure, technical and technological collaborations and agreements. The efficiency of the legal system and the speed at which the disputes are resolved by the courts are important factors which impact the overall economic and social development of the country.
 
 “International trade in a globalised economy has led to an increase in commercial disputes. Internationalisation of commerce has resulted in institutions of specialisation in countries including UK, France, Canada, Germany, Australia, New Zealand, 22 states of the USA, Philippines, Pakistan, UAE, Russia, Sri Lanka and Singapore. Singapore and Dubai have emerged as commercial disputes resolution hubs. However, India is yet to set up a centre of international commercial disputes resolution owing to delays in the judicial system,” the   said. 
 
 Releasing the newsletter of TNSJA, justice   of the   said that unlike other legislations, the Commercial Courts Act has some special features including case management and training. 
 
 
