MADURAI: Proper maintenance of an electric pole, be it erected by a private person on private land, is the bounden duty of the Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation ( ), the Madurai bench of the Madras high court held while ordering it to pay Rs 7 lakh as compensation to the legal heirs of a woman who got electrocuted.

 Justice M S   passed the order on the petition filed by   of Madurai whose wife   died on July 17, 2016. The petitioner’s wife was walking on the road in her locality when she slipped and lost her balance. To avoid falling down, she held on to an iron pole erected on the adjoining private land only to suffer electric shock and die the same day. 
 
 Chellappa filed a case against Tangedco contending that it was liable to pay a compensation of Rs 10 lakh for the death of his wife. His side argued that there were two iron pipes through which electric cables from the main post on the main road were taken and the iron pole drew power supply to a religious institution. Thus Tangedco should have ensured that electricity did not pass through the pole during rain.
 
 Countering it, the Tangedco counsel said that the pipeline belonged to a private person and was erected on his land and hence it was not liable to pay compensation. If at all compensation had to be granted, it was the private person who were be held responsible for negligence, the counsel said. However, the judge said that even assuming that the iron pole was erected by a private person on a private land, it would be the bounden duty of the   to ensure that the pole was maintained properly and that there was no pilferage or conduction of electricity through it even during rough weather. “The very fact that the pole in question also facilitates electricity supply to an adjacent service connection would go to prove that the Tangedco has vital role in passing electric cables through the iron pole in question,” he said.
 
 The judge also said that there was nothing on record to show that Tangedco had initiated actions against those who pulled electric cable from the main pole to a private land. “As such, it can only be assumed that pulling of electric cables from the main pole to the pole in question was within the knowledge of the tangedco officials. As such, they alone can be held liable for not maintaining the pole in question properly, amounting to wilful negligence,” the judge said and ordered for Rs 7 lakh compensation. The judge also made it clear that in case of default in paying the money, Tangedco should be liable to pay the amount with an interest of 9 %.
 
 
