PUNE: With back-to-back holidays from Thursday,   revellers could not have asked for more. But the long weekend hasn’t exactly unfurled into a riot of colours for Puneites as only a few are heading out of the city.

 Travel industry sources said that the four-day weekend has seen a 50% dip in travel due to the ongoing board exams. With March marking the end of the financial year, most people are keen on meeting investment targets rather than succumbing to wanderlust. 
 
 Also with summer vacation just two-three months away, most want to save the best for it. So those unable to travel to faraway shores are heading to Mahabaleshwar, Matheran and Goa.
 
 Shaishav Parekh, partner, Panam Tours and Travels and secretary,   (TAAI), said that apart from board exams, the last month of the financial year has forced the salaried to rein in on their travel plans and invest in tax saving schemes. “Typically, we see people investing during January to March and not early in the financial year. Compared to long weekends during the past one year, the Holi weekend has registered lowest travel interest, with 50% drop in travel,” said Parekh.
 
 Santosh Gupta of Shree Vinayak Holidays said that with summer vacation just a few months away, people are not ready to spend twice on travel. “So people are planning for quick getaways to destinations such as Mahabaleshwar, Matheran and, especially, Karjat. The families are going for little get-togethers during the break and not specifically to celebrate Holi. We have seen people opting for international destinations during long weekends earlier but not this time. In fact, we have seen a 60% drop in travel this long weekend compared to long weekends in the past one year,” said Gupta.
 
 Harshada Dholepatil, owner, Kingston Travels, said, “We don’t have any bookings for this long weekend. All our bookings are for the upcoming summer vacation. The Holi weekend has witnessed subdued travel compared to the past.”
 
 Nikhil Thakurdas, owner, Odyssey Tours and Travels, told TOI that families don’t make travel plans in March because it is examination time for children. “It is unfair to pitch this weekend against January 26 weekend or other festive weekends as March is not typically a month of festivities. But we have seen a 40% drop in travel this long weekend. Also families are now planning for summer vacation and we are witnessing an increasing number of queries for April-May period,” he said.
 
 Zelam Chaubal, director of  , said local hotspot like Matheran and Mahabaleshwar are drawing some tourists this Holi weekend.
 
 
