NEW DELHI: Following India's impressive show at the recently-concluded   in Mexico, during which the country emerged with the highest number of medals (9), nine Indian shooters – five men and four men – have cemented their place in the top ten of the ISSF rankings. The latest rankings that were released on Sunday saw 23-year-old Shahrar Rizvi (10m Air Pistol) become the highest-ranked Indian shooter – World No. 2 – on the back of clinching a gold medal with a world record score. 

 
 
 
 Other shooters to have made the climb include Anjum Moudgil, Akhil Sheoran, Sanjeev Rajput, Jitu Rai and Ravi Kumar, along with youngsters  , Yashaswini Singh Deswal and Mehuli Ghosh. Moudgil's silver medal in the Women's 50m Rifle 3 Positions (3P) event at the ISSF World Cup has fetched her ninth place in Women's 50m Three Positions. She is fifth in and Women's 10m Air Rifle. This makes her the only shooter from India to figure in top ten in two events.
 
 
 
 Sheoran secured the third position in the Men's 50m Rifle Three positions, while Rajput was placed at No. 10. Jitu and Ravi became No. 4 in Men's 10m Air Pistol and Men's 10m Air Rifle respectively. Among the young guns, Bhaker, who won the gold medal in the Women's 10 meter air pistol and clinched another gold at the World Cup in the 10 meter Air Pistol mixed team event, paired with fellow countrymen Om Prakash Mitharval, became World No. 5 in Women's 10m Air Pistol while Yashaswini became No. 8 in the same event.
 
 Another teenage sensation Mehuli Ghosh, who at the age of 17 has already two ISSF World Cup medals to her name, became World No. 6 in Women’s 10m Air Rifle.
 
 Indian shooting's coming of age has been lauded by many including Olympic gold medallist Abhinav Bindra and PM  . On Sunday, the Indian Prime Minister praised young Indian shooters on Twitter for ISSF Junior World Cup performance, where India bagged 22 medals, which included nine gold, five silver and eight bronze, to finish second behind China, who won 25 medals, in the medal tally.
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
