NEW DELHI: The Aam Aadmi Party government strongly rebutted the claims made by the lieutenant governor’s office following Wednesday's outcome report that it had only referred those proposals back to the government that were in violation of the procedural norms or lacked full details. “The   office’s claims are completely false. The files are repeatedly returned on newer and newer trivial grounds,” the state government said in a statement on Thursday. The government also rejected the charge that delays at the government level had been wrongly attributed to the LG’s office.

 On the LG’s claims that 97% of the files were approved as received, the government statement said, “The 3% files that the LG delayed or has not cleared contain the most important policies of the elected government made for the welfare of the people. The LG is trying to mask the reality of the files delayed by his office by claiming that only 3% of the 10,000 files were delayed.”
 
 To counter the LG’s contention, the government issued scheme-to-scheme clarifications, showing, for instance, that on the file related to the establishment of the Delhi Healthcare Corporation, the LG had written, “I am not sure that this is such a good idea. Chief secretary/ health secretary may discuss with me at their convenience.” Terming this as the “whims and fancies” of the LG, the government argued there was no procedural irregularity or lack of due diligence in this proposal.
 
 The government similarly described the LG asking the government to consult the ministry of defence on its proposal to grant Rs 1 crore as ex-gratia to armed personnel who died on duty as a “delaying tactic”.
 
 On the higher education loan guarantee scheme, the government said that the LG ordered the file to be re-examined by the law department even though this had been done before the proposal was tabled in the cabinet. “The back-to-back returning of the files gives a signal to the bureaucracy that this proposal needs to be stalled or scuttled,” the statement argued. Such decisions of the LG’s office caused inordinate delays, an example being Akshay Patra Foundation providing midday meals in schools. After the proposal was returned by the LG, it took the education department almost four months to table the proposal anew, the government said.
 
 The government also alleged the LG had "rejected" the policy in its entirety and "shut down" the expansion of the project aimed at providing affordable and quality primary healthcare when only a few of the individuals involved in the project had complaints against them.
 
