BENGALURU: A little after 10:45pm on May 25 (Friday), several newsrooms in Bengaluru received a message that claimed Saalumarada Thimmakka, the 104-year-old environmentalist credited with planting thousands of trees, had died. Thimmakka’s adopted son then spent the next 45 minutes clarifying to dozens of people, including relatives, that his mother was alive and well.

 
 A few hours before the rumours about Thimmakka's death, messages that   was in the line of Cyclone Sagar had flooded social media. The weatherman later rubbished them.
 
  
  
 
 The most important clarification on that day, though, came from Bengaluru police commissioner, T Suneel Kumar, who reiterated that videos of a gang of out-of-state child kidnappers was on the loose were untrue. That issue had taken a serious turn with the police department revealing that 90 innocent people — the count till that day — had been assaulted by mobs who mistook them for child kidnappers.
 
 Two days prior to Kumar’s press conference, a mob had beaten and killed  , 26, a man from Rajasthan, on the streets of Chamarajpet in Bengaluru. Police in Bengaluru and in the districts have, over the past 25 days, taken pains to point out that the messages are false and have warned people not to take the law into their own hands.
 
 The attacks on innocents were not confined to Karnataka alone. Similar attacks were reported in Tamil Nadu, Telangana and Andhra Pradesh. All this violence emerged from a video that reportedly originated outside India.
 
 Lakhs of messages are devoured on social media every day and some are spread indiscriminately, turning an otherwise democratic tool into a scourge that impacts lives. In 2015, for example, rumours of reprisals spread on social media leading to a mass exodus of people from the northeast from Bengaluru. There was no threat on the ground, but hundreds boarded trains and buses to flee the city.
 
 However, not everybody on social media — there are 27 crore Facebook, 20 crore WhatsApp and three crore Twitter users in India — are ‘troll farmers’ (those manufacturing and spreading digital content). In fact, in most cases, authorities have failed to establish who designed the messages and what their intentions were. While lacunae in the system allow ‘troll farmers’ to go unchecked, it is the ‘viral’ fever of ‘likes, shares and replies’ that allows them to thrive.
 
 Tinu Cherian, a social media expert, says: “While there is some scope for people to point out fake news on platforms like Facebook and Twitter, WhatsApp, which is a personal messaging app has no such provision.”
 
 Social media’s lack of apparatus to verify content and the absence of self-restraint of individuals who forward such messages is a kink that needs to be addressed carefully, balancing the rights guaranteed by the Constitution and punishments mandated by laws.
 
  expert Mirza Faizan Asad suggests one way of doing it to design applications with built-in fact-checking tools which can provide an alert via a pop-up that can quote credible news agencies or authorities objecting to such content. “Also, every major government department should have a fact-checking tool to alert people, or, a separate news channel for this purpose,” Asad said. “Mechanisms must ensure that an application or website repeatedly sharing false news can have their advertisements removed.”
 
 Former DG of Karnataka, ST Ramesh, on the other hand, argues that in the absence of ways to moderate content on the internet, the best way to go about dealing with the menace is to spread awareness using multiple tools.
 
 “For one, each department must have dedicated teams to point out fake news,” Ramesh said. “If this encounters logistical and resource issues, agencies must get on to the same social medium and spread counter messages.”
 
 Experts and media observers also advocate restraint by users so as to secure social media’s democratic nature, free from government control. They are also quick to add that censorship of the internet is not the way forward either.
 
 Social media is great so long as its powers do not result in regrettable actions that impact people’s lives. And, how we go about using it is literally in our hands!
 
 
 
