NEW DELHI: The   approved on Wednesday the government’s ambitious “Modicare” health insurance that targets nearly 11 crore poor families and will be a portable scheme which can be availed of anywhere in India. There will be no cap on family size and age while payments will be on package rates. The scheme, announced in the Budget earlier this year, will provide Rs 5 lakh insurance cover per family and is intended to be extended over time into a universal programme for all citizens. 

 
 Preexisting conditions will be covered and there will also be a defined transport allowance per hospitalisation. As the benefits of the scheme are portable, a beneficiary covered under the scheme will be allowed to take cashless benefits from public or private empanelled hospitals across the country. 
 
 According to an official release, the urban and rural inclusion criteria will look at deprivation and categories like families with no adult members between the ages of 16 and 59 years; female-headed households; SC, ST and landless labour; families without shelter; and destitutes.
 
  
  
 
 Though no rollout date for ‘Modicare’ has been announced, the scheme is expected to become effective latest by October. The premium amount to be paid by the Centre and   has not been stated either, though it was estimated at about Rs 1,200 per family. “To control costs, payments for treatment will be done on package rate (to be defined by the government). 
 
 For beneficiaries it will be a cashless, paperless transaction. States will be able to modify rates within a limited bandwidth,” the government said. The massive health outreach, a key political initiative of the   government ahead of the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, will be overseen at the central level by an   governing board chaired by the Union health minister. States will have a health agency and can implement the scheme through an existing trust, society or non-profit state agency. 
 
 Central funds will be transferred through an escrow account and expenditure on premium will be shared between states and the Centre in specified ratio, expected to be 60:40. The programme will target about 10.7 crore households or around 40% of the population. The scheme was considered necessary as in-patient hospitalisation expenditure has risen nearly 300% in the last 10 years and more than 80% of the costs are met by out of pocket funds. Rural as well as urban households are increasingly dependent on income and borrowings to meet the expenses. 
 
 The Ayushman Bharat-National Health Protection Mission Agency will be set up in the form of a society and will be headed by a full time CEO. There is a provision to partner states through a co-alliance, which will ensure appropriate integration with the existing health insurance or protection schemes at the Centre and state levels. State governments will be allowed to expand the scheme both horizontally and vertically. In partnership with NITI Aayog, an IT platform with paperless and cashless transactions will be established.
 
  
  
 
