NEW DELHI: They ran a well-organised racket and allegedly duped more than a hundred people of crores, but the gang members never met each other to plan the operation. One of them was a bank official who used to steal blank cheques and copies of signatures of targets and sent them to a   in Kolkata. The signature of the intended victim would be replicated on the cheque and money transferred to   of the gang members.

 “We have arrested six people and seized images of cheques worth Rs 2.6 crore,” said DCP (west) Vijay Kumar.
 
  
 A probe was started after one Vikas Solanki complained that around Rs 10.5 lakh was transferred to the bank account of a firm named Landmark Construction in Kolkata through a cheque without his knowledge. An FIR was registered and a team led by ACP Raman Lamba and SHO Anil Sharma was formed to track down the suspects.
 
 The cheque that was deposited in Kolkata had been stolen from the office of the complainant. One of the complainant’s employees, Ashish, was arrested with the help of technical surveillance. He told cops that he had passed on the cheque to an associate, Deepak, who was arrested as well.
 
 Subsequently, one Rishikesh was arrested from Jharkhand, while Probal Sen Gupta, Satender Sharma and Raj Kumar were nabbed in Kolkata. Cops finally caught Bipolab Das who used to forge the signatures of victims and encash the cheques.
 
 Sen Gupta, Sharma and Das were also found involved in cheating and forgery cases in Kolkata. Some bank officials and telecom employees were found to be a part of the crime syndicate. When Sharma and Sen Gupta were caught, they were in the process of transferring Rs 50 lakh using a forged cheque.
 
 Rishikesh disclosed that he used to receive the cheques from his associate in Delhi and pass it on to Sen Gupta through a contact as he was unaware of his address. Sen Gupta would send the cheques to Sharma, yet again through a contact as he didn’t know his address.
 
 The cops asked Sen Gupta to call Sharma to a meeting point in Kolkata. However, Sharma sent his associate Raj Kumar, who was caught and interrogated. He agreed to take the cops to Sharma, who stayed in Titagarh. Sharma finally led the cops to Das.
 
 It was found that the gang would encash the cheques in remote areas of Jharkhand or Northeast as it would take time for police to track them.
 
 
