BHOPAL: A day before the core committee meeting in New Delhi between state   stalwarts and AICC president  , a press release was issued by national general secretary Janardan Dwivedi on Saturday evening, ending speculations of an immediate organisational change in  .

 “Congress president Rahul Gandhi has decided that the presidents of all Pradesh Congress Committees, regional Congress committees and territorial Congress committees will continue in their posts after the organisational election also unless a decision is taken to replace them,” the press release, issued from AICC headquarters, said.
 
 With assembly elections just 10 months away, it was believed that there would be an organisational reshuffle in MP. But Saturday evening’s development means   will continue to lead the state Congress for now.
 
 Coincidentally, this information from the AICC comes a day after BR Ambedkar’s grandson Prakash Ambedkar extended support to Yadav from the podium of Akhil Bharatiya Mahatma Phule Samata Parishad and demanded that he be named the Congress’ chief ministerial candidate, a statement which sent shudders through powerful factions of the party.
 
 On Sunday, former Union minister  , Guna MP Jyotiraditya Scindia, Arun Yadav, Leader of Opposition Ajay Singh and AICC general secretary in-charge of Madhya Pradesh affairs Deepak Babaria will meet Rahul Gandhi to prepare a roadmap for the November assembly elections.
 
 There is the possibility of three to four PCC working presidents being appointed while Yadav continues as state chief, say sources. State Congress spokesman Ravi Saxena explained, “There are clear instructions that Arun Yadav will continue in office. Yadav, and   for Rajasthan and Ashok Tawar for Haryana, were appointed by Rahul Gandhi in early 2014. However, Congress will follow the Gujarat formula in Madhya Pradesh. In Gujarat, four PCC working presidents were appointed and given responsibility of Saurashtra, Kutch, central Gujarat and south Gujarat. In Madhya Pradesh, we may soon have four PCC working presidents, handling Chambal-Gwalior, Vindhya, Madhya Bharat (comprising Malwa-Nimar) and Mahakaushal.”
 
 
