Bathinda: Hundreds of students on Tuesday accused the Central University of Punjab (CUP) authorities in Bathinda of not being sensitive towards the case of sexual harassment of a girl student. The students also accused a senior faculty member of allegedly making derogatory remarks about the victim.

 As the faculty member denied making distasteful remarks, the CUP vice-chancellor Prof R K Kohli had tough time dealing with students. After deliberations that ran over two hours, students were pacified when the V-C assured to hand over the case to university’ grievances redressal committee headed by dean (academics) P Ramarao.
 
 The committee has been asked to submit the report by April 25.
 
 Meanwhile, the CUP authorities also agreed to include three student representatives in the gender sensitization committee against sexual harassment (GSCASH).
 
 A case under charges of sexual harassment has already been registered against a cook in the women’s hostel of the CUP and the authorities have assured to pursue the matter.
 
 A student had complained to the authorities on February 28 that cook Arvind Kumar had sexually harassed her. The students alleged that the authorities initially did not pay heed to the case. The students also accused associate professor Deepak Chauhan, who was member of the GSCASH, of making some distasteful remarks.
 
 Prof Chauhan denied having made any remarks and said the victim was like his own daughter. “I have been completely sensitive towards women but I do not know why the students are putting the blame on me when I have done nothing wrong. I am open to any inquiry.”
 
 V-C Prof Kohli said the new GSCASH would be constituted by April 1 by including three representatives of the students. “The complaint against associate professor has been handed over to grievances committee to investigate the matter in a fair manner. Appropriate action will be taken as per the report,” he said.
 
 CUP dean (student welfare) V K Garg and GSCASH presiding officer Prof Anjana Munshi denied any insensitivity and laxity on the part of the authorities. Both said, “Complete support has been provided to students in the case. We also accompanied the students for meeting the police officials to register the case in the matter.”
 
 When contacted, the Bathinda senior superintendent of police (SSP) Naveen Singla said the case was being looked into and efforts were being made to arrest the cook.
 
 
