KOLKATA: Exuberance was in the air at CBSE schools in Kolkata with most Class XII boards examinees having fared better than their seniors last year. Despite the fiasco over the economics paper and its subsequent re-test, they have scored high in the subject as well.

 
 Institutes, such as BD Memorial, Apeejay, DPS Ruby Park and Birla High, confirmed more students scored high percentages than that in 2017. The Kendriya Vidyalaya schools in the state, too, recorded a higher pass percentage. All the students at   scored above 60% with 10 among them having logged cent percent in several subjects. “Our results have been better than last year in terms of overall and subject scores,” said school director Mukta Nain.
 
 
  
 
 DPS Ruby Park had 181 students scoring above 90% and 469 over 80%. All the 841 candidates who appeared for the boards cleared the papers. At Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan, 95 out of its 275 students scored above 90%, the highest percentage being 97.4%. “We are still compiling the marks and comparing the result with last year’s performance. But so far, it seems we have fared better this time,” said principal Rekha Vysya.
 
 Sixty-eight of the 125 students who took the Class XII boards exams from   secured 90% and above. Last year, the number was 60. “Papers were not easy, but our students have done exceptionally well. Physics was tough and so was mathematics. This year, we had better students, I guess,” said principal  .
 
 At Apeejay School Park Street, 37 out of the 124 examinees scored more than 90% and the topper there bagged 96.4%. At the school’s   branch, 30 students scored above 90%. “The results are better than last year, despite the confusion over economics paper. We had been wary but there have been no unpleasant surprises,” said principal Reeta Chatterjee.
 
 Birla Bharati School had a 100% pass percentage, compared to 99.4% last year. Twentyone students scored above 90%. BD Memorial School fared even better with 70 students scoring above 90%. Ninety-five per cent students scored above 60%. “We have improved considerably this year,” said principal Bijoya Chaudhuri.
 
 The Kendriya Vidyalayas in the region, too, fared better than 2017. While last year, students from 41 KVs took the exams, this year, the number went up to 52; 15 were from  . In 19 KVs, all students passed the CBSE XII, while at 23 institutes, the pass percentage was between 95 and 100. Officiating deputy commissioner of KV (regional office) S   called the results satisfactory. “The credit goes to our teachers and students. One of the factors that could have led to better results this year is that more KVs had principals this year. Till last year, many functioned without one. The regional office also worked on a strategy to improve the results,” said Bose.
 
