NAGPUR: To celebrate World Dance Day, Rajasthani Mahila Mandal (RMM) and Chatra Jagruti in association with Miracle on Wheels (MOW) organized a unique programme titled ‘Dance on Wheels’ at Suresh Bhat Hall, on Sunday.

 The highlight of the event was the dance by   children performed on wheelchairs. The theme of the dance was ‘Bhagvad Gita’ and the artistes dressed up like the characters from Mahabharata. Audience applauded the ‘Ganesha Vandana’ and ‘Wheelchair army’ performance by the artistes. 
 
 Under the guidance of innovator and director Syed Sallauddin Pasha, the differently-abled children showcased their talent with dance performances on various art forms like Sufi, Bharatnatyam and Bollywood. Awarded with national and international titles, MOW is the only troupe in the Asia to perform Sufi on wheels. 
 
 Some unique presentations like Goddess Durga avatar and Shiva Tangata dance enthralled the audience. A special performance enlightening the viewers about sign language was appreciated by one and all.
 
 Lead performers on the stage were Mahira Jaan Pasha who depicted Goddess Durga, Ashiq Suman as Lord Krishna from Mahabharata and also in Sufi performance on ‘Khwaja mere Khwaja’. Others who gave fabulous performances were artistes Manoj, Sonu, Vikas, Rohit, Suhas, Sachin, Sofia, Anusha and Gokul.
 
 Eminent personalities of RMM, Mohini Mohanta, Gayatri Sampala, Asha Sarda, Prameela Munod, Padmashree Sarda, Shobha Tari, Usha Chandan, Ratan Nabhira and Sarla Samant and others were felicitated on the occasion for their extraordinary efforts taken for the benefit of the underprivileged in the society.
 
 Also, managing director of Ranjana Industries Jaisingh Chauhan, a specially-abled businessman from city, was felicitated. Anita Taley from Arni and Ranjana Kamble from Yavatmal, who lost their husbands during Yavatmal pesticide tragedy were awarded with relief fund of Rs 21,000.
 
 The event was a success with joint eforts of the organizers and the artistes.
 
 
