Mysuru: For the first time in the history of Mysore Railway Station, the Prime Minister will be visiting the railway station and flagging off the Humsafar Express train and electric train from Mysuru to Bengaluru on February 19. The railway authorities have started making the necessary preparations and beautifying the station.

 On most occasions, new trains or various other facilities are flagged off by the railway minister or senior railway authorities.
 
 The Prime Minister will spend nearly half-an-hour at the station, and launch various facilities for the people, which includes inaugurating an electric and double railway line to Bengaluru. By flagging off the Humsafar Express train, which will use an electric locomotive, which will connect 4 states of western India—Maharashtra, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan with Karnataka. He will also inaugurate an electric train between Mysuru and Bengaluru.
 
 It can be brought to light that the new Humsafar train reached Mysuru a month back, and was stationed at the Mysuru New Goods Terminal. Modi will also lay the foundation stone for the Satellite Terminal Station at Naganahalli, which will be coming up at a cost of Rs 789 crore, which got sanctioned in the recently-announced budget.
 
 Mysuru railway station getting beautified
 
 In view of the Prime Minister’s visit, the railway authorities are going all out in their efforts to beautify the station. Painting is being carried out wherever necessary, and repair works have been undertaken at the station. Security has been given utmost importance, said sources. Priority has also been given to ensure cleanliness at the station. As this is the maiden visit by a Prime Minister to Mysuru railway station, the authorities here are carrying out frequent meetings to take stock of the situation. The station is being made more attractive by putting up attractive 3-D art work at the subway. 
 
 Bengaluru -Mysuru railway line established in 1882
 
 Thanks to the initiative of Chamaraja Wadiyar for taking the initiative for a railway line between Bengaluru and Mysuru, the construction of the Bengaluru-Mysuru railway line was started in 1877-78. It was taken up in phases. The Bengaluru-Channapatna, Channapatna-Mandya and Mandya-Mysuru lines were completed in three phases in five years. 
 
 
