THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The government and opposition clashed in the assembly on Thursday over the state's 'failure' to deal with cyclone Ockhi, which battered parts of  . 

 While the opposition demanded that the state disaster management authority should be immediately disbanded and experts be brought in, the government said the opposition was trying to politicise even such incidents like the Ockhi disaster.
 
 Reiterating the earlier claims of the state, chief minister   said though multiple alerts about a low pressure developing over the sea near Kanyakumari and the Sri Lankan coast were issued, at no point except on November 30 afternoon, the Centre warned that a cyclone could hit the state's coast. 
 
 Reading out a series of bulletins the state received since 12.53pm on November 29, the chief minister said the state received seven such bulletins subsequently till the next day afternoon but nothing serious was cited for which the state should have taken precautions. "The Centre did not issue any warning in accordance with the set procedures. The warnings should have been issued in four stages at 72 hours, 48 hours, 24 hours and 12 hours. Also, at no point the Centre instructed total suspension of fishing," he said.
 
 Opposition leader  , however, said what happened in the state was a man-made disaster. He said though the same situation was applicable for Tamil Nadu and Lakshadweep, only two died in Tamil Nadu and no deaths were reported in Lakshadweep. 
 
 "The Centre's bulletin on November 29 itself said that the storm would probably develop to a deep depression. When a warning was issued, it should have been taken seriously. The disaster management authority ignored all the alerts," he said.
 
 He said the state's chief minister travelling in aircraft or helicopter was no crime but the blunder was that the expenses should not have been borne from the funds meant for the poor. 
 
 Later, the chief minister placed a detailed statement before the assembly. In his statement, he said the government has decided to provide the families of those missing in the disaster the same financial relief which has been given to the kin of people who lost their lives. 
 
 Till the government receives the recommendation of the committee, these families will get Rs 10,000 every month from the chief minister's distress relief fund. The government has also decided to recruit 200 persons from the fishermen community to the coastal police force in which the family members of the deceased will get priority. 
 
 After the speaker denied permission for adjournment motion, the opposition walked out in protest.
 
 
