SHIMLA: Disqualification of 22 Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) MLA by the   coupled with courts’ calling the posts unconstitutional has cast a shadow in   with chief minister Jai Ram Thakur-led BJP government unlikely to appoint chief parliamentary secretaries (CPS). While the Punjab and Haryana had quashed the appointments of CPS by the party’s governments in Haryana and Punjab, the Himachal Pradesh high court too had passed similar orders much earlier. Thus even as those eyeing the posts are lobbying hard, the CM seems to be in no hurry to appoint CPSs as it remains a political and legal hot potato.

 On August 18, 2005, the division bench of the Himachal Pradesh high court comprising of the then Chief Justice   and Justice Deepak Gupta had cancelled the appointments of CPS and parliamentary secretaries (PS) after finding them against constitutional provisions.
 
 After the 2005 decision of the high court, Himachal government had enacted the Himachal Pradesh Parliamentary Secretaries (Appointment, Salaries, Allowances, Power, Privileges and Amenities) Act, 2007 to bring the appointments of CPS and PS out of the ambit of office of profit.
 
 During the previous Congress regime, nine MLAs were appointed as CPS and their appointment were challenged before the Election Commission in June 2016, and later before HC in November 2016.
 
 Initially, it was being felt that districts which could not get representation in cabinet would be given a share in the government with the appointment of CPS. According to sources, disqualification of AAP MLAs has put breaks on the matter for now.
 
 In November 2016, non-profit organization People for   had challenged the appointment of CPSs by then Congress government before the high court. It was alleged in the petition that appointment of CPS is against the provisions of law. Petition claimed that with the appointment, number of ministers in state cabinet had gone beyond 15% of total strength so same should be quashed.
 
 In June 2016, RTI activist   had challenged the appointment of CPSs in Himachal Pradesh before the Chief Election Commissioner of India by terming the appointments as illegal and had demanded that all these MLAs should be issued notice for occupying office of profit and after speedy trial all of them should be disqualified from assembly.
 
 
