NAGPUR: Former Indian ace athlete   said on Monday that strict action should be taken against the athletes who are involved in doping.

 
 Menezes was in the city to inaugurate the   athletics meet which got underway at the Nagpur University track here on Monday.
 
 He was of the opinion that to curb the menace of doping in India, a provision of imprisonment along with ban should be introduced for the culprits.
 
 During the recently held Commonwealth Games at Gold Coast in Australia, needles were detected in the rooms of two Indian athletes and they were asked to leave the venue. As the image of the nation was tarnished, the   (AFI) adopted ‘no needle’ policy after the CWG incident.
 
 Asked whether this move will control doping in the country, Menezes, who has represented India in 2000 Sydney Olympics said, “such things happen due to lack of knowledge to the players. Therefore, they should always remain alert. Apart from ban, there is a provision of imprisonment to such athletes in America and Europe. India should also follow such strict laws to curb the doping menace permanently,” he said.
 
 Menezes, who is based in Vasai, Mumbai, was a force to reckon with in India in the late nineties. The sprinter has won more than 100 medals at the national-level athletics meet. He has also clinched gold medals at the World Railway Games, South Asian Athletics competition.
 
 In the company of former city athlete Rajeev Balakrishnan he has trained several young athletes in America. He has also equalized the 200m record of 20.80 seconds of  .
 
 Menezes, who has admitted that India has made tremendous progress in athletics since 1997 but there is lot of score for improvement in coaching, said, “the role of a coach is very important in the development of sportsperson but the country lacks expert coaches. They can’t teach the art of how to seize the opportunity at an appropriate time. Coaches should always enhance their knowledge so that their trainees should be benefited from that updated knowledge,” he said.
 
 
