Manali: Hundreds of tourists in Manali were left surprised on Wednesday when they witnessed unexpected fresh snowfall at Solang and Gulaba near here.

 While temperature is soaring in plains, the snowfall has forced people to wear woollens here, where temperature has dipped suddenly. Solang received 5cm fresh snow while Gulaba received over 10cm of snow. Rohtang pass has received over 30cm of snow in the last 24 hours. Keylong in Lahaul also received nearly 5cm of snow. Even Manali town and surrounding villages witnessed snowflakes early in the morning but there was no snow accumulation. At -0.2°C, Keylong was the coldest inhabited place in Himachal, followed by Manali (3°C), Kalpa (4°C) and Shimla (8°C).
 
 Tourists made a beeline for Solang and Gulaba to enjoy snowfall since early morning. They could be seen hurling snowballs at each other, making snowmen and taking selfies. The snowfall has also cheered the hoteliers here. Manali Hoteliers Association president Gajender Thakur said this year the region had received less snow but this unexpected spell of snowfall had brought cheer to them. “This will bring more tourists to Manali. Tourists can see snow at many places in the next few days until Rohtang is opened for them. Tourists come to see snow only,” he said.
 
 Snowfall at Rohtang has again blocked Manali-Keylong highway. None of the vehicle could go beyond Gulaba. The Himachal Roads Transport Corporation (HRTC) had started its bus service between Kullu and Lahaul from Wednesday but its first bus that left Kullu for Udaipur carrying 37 passengers had to stop at Manali, leaving everybody disappointed. Accumulation of a thick layer of snow on the Manali-Rohtang highway has undone the efforts of the Border Roads Organization, which is engaged in clearing snow from the Manali-Leh highway. The BRO will again be removing the snow and traffic is expected to be restored by Thursday noon.
 
 A sudden dip in temperature and snow depositing on apple tree blooms in upper Manali have brought worries for fruit growers.
 
 
