MUMBAI: The   on Wednesday served a   to the dean of   after at least half a dozen teachers were found practising in private hospitals. 

 The department is also in the process of recommending to the Maharashtra Medical Council to cancel the registration of the six senior   for breach of trust. 
 
  
 The matter came to light last week when medical education secretary Sanjay Deshmukh deployed his deputy Sanjay Kamlakar to check if teachers at the state-run medical college were practising in six private hospitals in Kolhapur, said a senior medical education department official. 
 
 Using the alias of Prakash Kumbhar, Kamlakar visited the six private hospitals, took   papers, paid fees and secured prescriptions too. In his report submitted to Deshmukh, Kamlakar said that senior medical teachers Vidya Patil, Sudarshan Gaurkar, Chetan Ghorpade, Vijay Kasa, D G Shitole and Sanjay Desai were practising in private hospitals during working hours of the medical college.
 
 Based on the report, Deshmukh sought information from dean Jaiprakash Ramanand, but the latter said no medical teacher in his college was involved in  . Deshmukh did not mention that an official had personally checked with the private hospitals and found otherwise. The medical education department subsequently served a show-cause notice to Ramanand for misleading the government and for breach of Maharashtra Civil Service Rules. 
 
 Ramanand said when he received a letter from Deshmukh, he secured information from all heads of the department on whether any of the teachers were involved in private practice. 
 
 “I have submitted my report to the medical education department. But so far, I have not received a show cause-notice,” Ramanand told TOI.
 
 But the senior medical education department official clarified: “Our contention is that while more than half a dozen doctors were not available in the college and were involved in private practice, the dean was in the dark. Further, Ramanand has submitted that no teacher is involved in private practice. We have submitted all relevant documents to him.” 
 
 
