Ajmer: Congress on Friday alleged that during bypolls, Vasundhara Raje government is not only misusing power but also violating the code of conduct. Congress wrote to the election commission of India to intervene and also sent proofs and a list of violations. A delegation of Congress also gave memorandum to district election officer and demanded to remove all posters of state government influencing voters in the constituency. Congress warned that if the violation is not stopped immediately they will prepare video of such violation for judicial remedy.

 Congress spokesman Pratap Singh Khachariyawas accused ministers of Raje government of misusing power and maintaining protocol in  . “They brought MGNREGA workers in the rally of BJP candidate to show strength and minister Yunus Khan pressurised RTO department for making buses available to bring workers from villages,” Khachariyawas alleged.
 
 He added that state government is bound to obey and respect the Constitution of India but they want to win the bypolls at any cost and, therefore, they are not worried about violation. “They are now constructing roads in villages as well as have started construction in different state assembly elections to lure voters,” added Khachariyawas.
 
 He further said that they had made a complaint against BJP president Parnami for making announcements during bypolls and election commission has issued showcause notice to him.
 
 “We on Friday gave memorandum to district election officer asking that officials of Ajmer should not attend the protocol of ministers coming to Ajmer,” said Lalit Bhati, senior Congress leader.
 
 Congress made the list of violations and said that posters of CM Vasundhara Raje should be removed from every corner of the city as well as from the entrance of Pushkar. They alleged that Raje is dividing the society but people of Rajasthan are prepared to remove this idle government.
 
 Meanwhile, BJP said that Congress is fearful and, therefore, making such excuses for not accepting defeat.
 
 
