RAJKOT: Coastal town of   remained on the edge after violence and arson broke out when a girl was allegedly teased by a group of youngsters in   area late on Saturday night.

 The prime targets of the frenzied mob were the policemen who had actually tried to avert the clash between two communities in area located on  . Two policemen were injured in stone pelting while nearly two dozen vehicles, including those of the cops, were vandalized and set ablaze. A police jeep was also dragged and thrown into the sea.
 
 Police teams were forced to lob at least 21 tear gas shells and resort to caning to bring the situation under control. 
 
 The incident happened when a girl was allegedly teased by some youngsters from the minority community. Soon, those from the other community started gathering at the spot. In the meantime, someone called up the police control room and informed them about the tension building up in the locality. 
 
 When teams of Kirti Mandir police station reached Kharwavad, those who had teased the girl had left from the spot. The cops then started persuading members of other community to leave. However, this angered the mob, which was seething over the eve-teasing incident and they launched an attack on the police by resorting to stone pelting.
 
 Constable Dharmendrasinh Dilubha and head constable   of Kirti Mandir police station were injured in stone pelting.
 
 Soon, the situation took an ugly turn when the mob started targeting the vehicles. “The mob dragged and threw a police jeep into the sea and vandalized seven other police vehicles. They also vandalized 15 private vehicles of which they torched eight two-wheelers,” said SM Bhatt, police inspector, Kirti Mandir police station. 
 
 It was only after more police teams were called in and tear-gas shells lobbed that that situation came under control at around 12 midnight after nearly 45 minutes of mob frenzy.
 
 Kirti Mandir police arrested 32 people for the violence. Among those arrested, Kalpesh Katelia, Chandresh Girnari, Nitesh Gohel, Mitesh Gohel, Sandeep Panjari and Akshay Kharwa had allegedly led the mob attack on the police. The complaint in this connection was lodged by Kirti Mandir police station sub-inspector R N Odedara.
 
 
