Nagpur: At a time when Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC) is going strong against private property owners to recover tax dues, it is apparently lax with big establishments including public sector undertakings. Data from property tax department in reply to RTI activist Abhay Kolarkar’s query show the state undertaking Maharashtra Airport Development Company (MADC) that runs Mihan and has received huge money from industrial houses by selling land, has not paid property tax dues. Its outstanding dues for 36 different properties in the city have crossed Rs11.26 crore. The dues a pending since 2012-13. According to tax department, there are 1300 owners who have dues of over Rs1 lakh and above each. Interestingly, MADC is not the only government undertaking among the defaulters. There are 231 state government offices having 3,799 units that collectively owe Rs4.13 crore to NMC. The 56 central government offices with 1,453 units owe Rs1.88 crore property tax. Another major property tax defaulter is KSL and Industries, the company that developed Empress City Mall under Dhantoli zone of NMC. KSL has property tax dues of Rs1.93 crore for Empress City and other premises. Similarly, 110 tenants in Empress Mall together owe Rs11.64 crore property tax. Educational institutions too have defaulted on tax. They include Dharampeth Education Society (over Rs8 lakh), South India Education Society’s Saraswati Vidhyalaya (Rs5.39 lakh), Parampujya Dr Babasaheb Ambedkar Smarak Samiti (Rs35.21 lakh), Asha Education Society and director Lokmanya Tilak Jankalyan Shikshan Sanstha (Rs24.17 lakh) Rashtrabhasha Sabha too has not paid tax since 2014 and its outstanding reached Rs6.48 lakh. Two tenants of Vidarbha Sahitya Sangh — M/s Cartel Outdoor Advertising and M/s New Nanda Publicity and itself together owe Rs17.30 lakh. Even public representatives are not paying civic taxes. MLA Ashish Deshmukh, his wife Ayushri and brother Amol have an outstanding tax of Rs2.99 lakh, Rs2.91 lakh and Rs2.81 lakh, respectively. Religious trusts are among defaulters. His Holiness Dr Syedna Mohammed Burhanuddin Saheb Anjuman Saifee Daudi Bohra Jamat Trust Nagpur has not paid Rs1.82 lakh since 2009. A senior official from the tax department claimed arrears of property tax that were over Rs288 crore had now come down to Rs223 crore due to better recoveries. Another senior official from Laxmi Nagar zone said MADC had not only defaulted on property tax but was also not responding to notices served. The officer pointed out that as Mihan was a special project of the state, the zone office had approached the state government to either direct the public undertaking to clear the tax dues or should pay the tax itself. About KSL dues, he said the firm had brought a stay against NMC’s action from a court. He claimed the department was all set to intensify auction of big tax defaulters’ properties in coming days.