In the latest episode of   a new set of contestants had to go through a few grilling tasks to make it to the next round.

 
 Priya Sindhu, a girl who hails from a small village near Meerut, was the first one to try her luck in front of the judges' panel. She opened up about her emotional journey and how a trying experience back at home scarred her for life. She broke down in tears when   asked her about her life. She impressed the judges with her push-ups and pull up and then she was joined by another aspiring contestant - Snehal Karkera, who introduced herself as a sprinter. Both of them had to compete with each other in a number of tasks. Raftaar, Prince Narula and Neha Dhupia, all of them selected Priya. The session ended on a high note when   floored everyone with his crazy dance moves.
 
 Kawalpreet Singh, the next contestant who came before the judges, rubbed them the wrong way from the get-go. His form had some questionable things that didn't go down very well with any of the judges. He was questioned about that and his attitude towards women. Rannvijay and others issued a barrage of criticism at him for the kind of outrageous things he has mentioned in his form. Things went from bad to worse when   lashed out at him for the kind of perverted things that he had written in his form. Over that, he was non-apologetic when the judges pointed out the contradictions and shed light on few of the things that he could have done differently to redress himself. He was ousted from the round as none of the judges found him fit for the Roadies journey.
 
 Kriti Verma's entry came as a breath of fresh air for the judges. A 'GST inspector' my profession, she had to perform a mini skit in which she had to arrest Raftaar. She did reasonably well and it cracked up everyone. She danced to entertain the judges as a part of a task. Unfortunately, she was not selected to proceed in the show.
 
 Pavneet Singh Bagga came to audition next. He sang in Gujrati and did the Garba and that left everyone inside splits with his antics. It was a fun-filled session in which he talked about a few funny instances of his life. It was the way he talked that endeared him to them. He was selected to proceed in the show for this very same reason.
 
 Next, Abhishek Dubey for Jammu came in and sang his way into the hearts of the judges. He played a break-up song on his guitar and that warmed them towards him. He also impressed them with his physical strength when he performed some exercises. He was given the green signal by the judges.
  
  
 Farah from Hyderabad, a hair-stylist by profession, was very candid about the way she talked about her life. She had an interesting way to tell her story. Raftaar taught her a few martial art moves when she expressed her desire to learn the art. Nikhil selected her for her spirit but none of the other judges gave her a go-ahead. She was sent back in a dejected state as she said that she won't be able to try her luck again in the next season as there were a few restrictions at her home. In a surprising turn of events, just when she was about to leave,   gave her a green light to enter the next round of the show.
 
