UDAIPUR: Unable to support his differently-abled sister, an unemployed man from the state has written to Prime Minister  , seeking   for her.

 
 Sudhir Mishra, a resident of   area in Chittorgarh city, has been running from pillar to post to get a pension sanctioned for his 45-year-old sister Sunita, who has 90% physical disability. Her unfit mental condition along with her inability to do anything on her own requires someone to look after her around the clock.
 
 The siblings’ father,  , who passed away 2014, had retired as government school teacher in 1986. After the death of their father, Sudhir and his wife had to leave their private jobs to take care of Sunita.
 
 The jobless couple has been looking after the ailing woman ever since. But all attempts made by Sudhir to get the father’s pension for the ailing daughter have failed.
 
 “As per the state government scheme, my sister who is physically and mentally unfit, is entitled to receive our father’s pension. I moved the file in 2015. Since then, I have not left any stone unturned to get the pension sanctioned. Initially, there were some objections raised on the file which were clarified. I met education authorities and requested them for the early disposal of the case, but no one has shown any compassion,” said 42-year-old Sudhir told TOI.
 
 Sudhir, who has a daughter and is in a bad good financial condition, is unable to work as his sister needs someone at home always. “My wife does all her personal work. She can move only in wheelchair. We have a teenage daughter but we cannot afford her studies as we have to take care of Sunita. So, we have no other option. I have given the mercy killing petition to the collector to be forwarded to PM. It’s better to die rather than live in such a wretched condition,” Sudhir said, fighting his tears.
 
 Currently, the family lives in a portion of their father's home and occupies two rooms. The other portion has been rented out and is the only source of income for this family of four. “In 2012, the state government had made a provision that on the death of any government employee their dependant daughter, if she is differently-abled or separated from husband, will be entitled to the family pension of her father or mother. But the indifference of ministerial/clerical staff in departments is causing unwanted delays, leaving the needy in a pitiable condition,” said  , president of the district pensioners’ society, Chittorgarh.
 
 
