MOHALI : Mohali police on Thursday carried out a special drive against persons running immigration business illegally in the district. Cops during their raid at 25 spots in Sector 70, sealed 15 offices, while rest of the accused fled from their offices soon after getting information about the raid. 

 The Punjab police have recently started a special drive against illegal travel agents in the state. Additional director general of police (ADGP) NRI & women wing Ishwar Singh has given special directions to all the SSPs in the districts and commissioners of police in this regard.
 
 Following the directions of the ADGP, Mohali police along with NRI & women wing have raided around 25 offices of travel agents in Sector 70, Mohali, on Thursday. As many as 15 travel agents failed to show mandatory documents and police sealed their offices.
 
 Cops said that the license of these travel agents have expired and they were illegally operating their business in the district. However, these travel agents claimed that they have applied for fresh license in DC office. But, when asked they did not have any legal documents in possession which are required to run immigration business. 
 
 Apart from that, Mohali police also raided offices of 18 travel agents in Sector 61, Mohali in the past one month. As many as seven travel agents had failed to show mandatory documents and have been issued notice by the police to produce mandatory documents soon.
 
 The Punjab Travel Professionals' Regulation Rules, 2013 makes it mandatory for all travel agents or those running ticketing or consultancy business, to register with the government. Those who have been in the trade for over five years have to pay a license fee of Rs 1 lakh and who have not completed five years have to pay Rs 25,000.
 
 The immigration agents should not be involved in any crime when they seek the licence. The Act has a provision for a maximum of seven years of imprisonment and fine of up to Rs 50,000 for any travel agent who violates this law or indulges in human trafficking.
 
 
