Stories from the heart, devoid of all pretence. The book, “Mirror Image” by   resident   is a study of the strength of spirit. The series of stories partly based on reality depict courage and resilience, but is free of the saccharine sweetness of a typical chicken soup book. The empathy in these stories does away with the need for elaborate expression.

 It comes from the author's less than ordinary life, which gave her a keen insight into the human condition.
 
 
 Primed for compassion by her experiences, the author narrates extraordinary stories of ordinary people.
 
 The book is an account of her journey into the lives of people she encountered, such as the doting wife of a labourer who has an accident at work and dies for want of medical treatment. The story recounts the courage of the widow, who bears up with dignity despite years of abuse and poverty.
 
 She writes about a married woman who does her best to care for her ailing father in the face of problems with her husband. She talks about the tearing conflict of a mother carrying the trauma of sexual abuse in childhood struggling to find the strength to protect her daughter.
 
 The book starts with a story that is an invocation to the Goddess Durga, who the author reveres since childhood. The lessons of courage and compassion she strings together have been derived from the Goddess and Buddhism. These are stories of life, pain, healing and closure.
 
 
 
 
 At first glance, Rama Gupta appears to be exactly what a retired principal of Government Girls College, Shimla is supposed be. Her starched suit and short hair suggest a no nonsense attitude, which is belied as soon as she starts talking.
 
 Rama forayed into the literary world rather late in life, when she was sure the rather profound experiences of her life had given her the sensitivity a writer needs. “Nothing came to me on a platter, not even my education. Growing up in an orthodox environment, I had to contend with my mother's misgivings about the use of higher education for a woman. I was always a brilliant student and the then governor had often given me prizes and admired my craftwork.
 
  I decided to go to him and ask him to transfer my father to  , so I could have the chance to study without having to leave home. The gamble paid off as a sadhu I met at the gate of the gubernatorial residence led me to the governor, who complied with my wishes and the transfer was granted,” she said, beaming.
 
 She goes on to talk about choosing kindness over bitterness in the face of the loss of her sister to liver cancer and her father to stroke, with his last years spent under her care.
 
