GUWAHATI: With chief minister   by her side at the   in Singapore on Sunday, external affairs minister   pushed the northeast as a "pitch to southeast Asia" while emphasizing greater cooperation between India and the   ( ) for mutual growth. 

 Earlier, Sonowal launched a road show calling investors to participate at the Advantage Assam: Global Investors' Summit in Guwahati next month. Swaraj and Sonowal also met Singapore minister for foreign affairs   and discussed bilateral issues for the promotion of India-Singapore relations.
 
 Swaraj introduced Sonowal as the "symbol of resurgence of India's northeast". Swaraj said, "This is a year of milestones. India and Asean's relationship turns 25. Our ties have evolved into a strategic partnership. The Asean region is at the pinnacle of our Act East Policy and, as a symbol of that, chief minister of Assam Sarbananda Sonowal is attending the Pravasi Bharatiya Divas."
 
 Giving a major push to the northeastern region, Swaraj said, "Our northeast region will prosper when there is a greater collective push with southeast Asia. It is important to realize their growth for India-Asean ties."
 
 She also underlined the importance of India's economic growth for a better India-Asean relationship. "As the Indian economy grows, our ties will deepen, our trade will be cheaper and investment flow will grow", she said. The Indian states play a vital role in the progress of the country and they are important in advancing India's economic ties with the world, she added.
 
 Reiterating the state government's resolve in playing a proactive role towards the success of the Act East Policy, Sonowal said his government is committed to stepping up its efforts in increasing interactions with Asean countries, including enhancing people-to-people contact, trade and other relations.
 
 Addressing the Pravasi Bharatiya Divas, Sonowal said, "Assam and other northeastern states are close to Asean nations. We have land borders with Myanmar. Many of the Asean capitals are within 2,000 kilometres flying distance from Guwahati, which is comparable to the flying distance between Guwahati and many Indian cities. We are keen to start flights between Guwahati and Asean capitals. The construction of a new terminal building at the Guwahati airport is going to start soon. There is also a motorable road link, the Asean trilateral highway connecting the northeast and Asean."
 
 Sonowal said both the Brahmaputra and Barak rivers, along with their many tributaries, have a huge potential for river transport, tourism and industry. He highlighted that Assam ranks third among raw silk-producing states in India. He also said the northeast has the highest concentration of bamboo resources in the country. Highlighting the avenue of tea tourism that the state offers, Sonowal said there are 20 golf courses and heritage clubs in the scenic tea gardens in Assam.
 
 Sonowal added that in the run-up to the February summit, the government has come up with a new policy on tax incentives for setting up industries and tourism units, an IT policy, a biotech policy, a startup policy, a sugar policy and a solar energy policy.
 
 
