Ludhiana: In a record achievement for the income tax department, Ludhiana, 3.56 lakh new assesses have been added by the department in last one year which is the highest in the region. This was disclosed by the principal chief commissioner of income tax (north west region) Madhu Mahajan at a programme organised by the department at Guru Nanak Bhawan on Tuesday evening.

 During the event, Mahajan also launched a new initiative of the department called Enviro Mitra and Health Mitra, which has a unique combination of themes of tax awareness, environmental awareness and universal health for children. Three different apps were also launched by the department on its website www.apnakar.com including a tax awareness app for children. Earlier in the day, a statue of Chanakya was unveiled at Aayakar Bhawan, Rishi Nagar.
 
 During the programme, Mahajan also appreciated the efforts of department in increasing awareness among public to file their returns and pay taxes on time due to which a large number of new assessees have filed their returns in Ludhiana range this year. She also appreciated the vertical garden initiative of the department, which has also caught attention of general public.
 
 Speaking on the occasion, Binay K Jha, chief commissioner of income tax (CCIT), Ludhiana said, income tax department is not just collecting tax for government and effectively applying the rule of law, the department believes in the power of positive innovation for good. The tax tree and the vertical garden initiative received positive response from people, while the department has established an innovative mobile portal on its tax payer service website to help, monitor and control the MR vaccination drive in paperless mode. He also added, it was also on account of the open mindset and creativity of the district administration, health department, education department and the sensitivity and generous assistance of the tax-payers that the MR campaign has been able to adopt new standards of programme implementation.
 
 Vote of thanks was delivered by principal commissioner of income tax (Punjab and J&K) Parneet Sachdev, who appreciated the role played by all the stakeholders in the vertical garden campaign and also pledged that departments’ fight against black money will continue and sought support of the people in reporting such cases to the department for the betterment of the country and economy. 
 
 Singer Hansraj Hans too was present in the programme and enthralled the audience with his performance. He also urged the audience to grow more trees and pay their taxes. During the programme, chief guest Madhu Mahajan and district and sessions judge Gurbir Singh gave awards to the individuals and groups who had contributed to the Green Plastic Initiative, established vertical gardens in their homes and work places and helped in setting up the MR campaign. Children from leading schools and from the Noble Foundation also gave scintillating performances on this occasion.
 
 The programme was attended by the leading personalities including senior officers and employees of the department, senior judicial officers, leading businessmen, income tax bar association members, principals and schools and colleges, health department officers, WHO representatives in Ludhiana and leading doctors.
 
 
