KOLHAPUR: The biodiversity board of the   ( ) on Tuesday decided to lodge police complaint against those dumping solid waste or construction debris along the water bodies such as lakes or quarries. 

 The tri-monthly meeting of the board took place on Tuesday under mayor   and was attended by expert members and officials of the KMC. The members said that strict action needs to be taken against those causing the pollution of the water bodies, mainly due to dumping of solid waste and debris into lakes. Such an instance was reported recently at Rankala lake and the KMC is yet to find the person responsible for the act.
 
 Samir Vyaghrambare, environmental engineer of KMC, said, "The water bodies are eco-sensitive areas and need to be protected. We have decided to lodge FIR against those dumping the waste. Action will be taken as per the provisions of various pollution related acts." 
 
 Amar Jadhav, expert member of the board, complained that debris had been dumped along Irani quarry near Rankala lake.
 
 Apart from this, the board has decided to start a special bus for students and visitors to see the rare species of plants located in various parts of the city. The bio-diverse areas have been identified by the civic administration with the help of the local environmental activists. 
 
 Mayor Yavaluje along with corporators and officials will take the first ride of the special bus on March 21. The KMC has undertaken the task of developing a butterfly zone in Hutatma Garden. About 80% of the work of the zone has been completed. 
 
 "We are going to plant various trees in the shed covered with net. Various kinds of butterflies will be developed in the shed. The special bus will be arranged every Sunday. Town Hall, Mahavir Garden, Vivekanand College, Agriculture College, Shivaji Vidyapeeth, Hutatma Park and Belbaug areas will be covered," said Vyaghrambare. 
 
 The KMC will need registration of at least 20 people for the tour and the ticket rate has been fixed at Rs 72 per person.
 
 
