CHENNAI: Denying the reports carried by a section of media, claiming that the 18   legislators who were disqualified by the speaker, petitioned the governor with an intention to remove chief minister   and make K A   as the head of the government, the counsel representing the expelled MLAs informed the Madras high court that they had no intention to do so.

 During the arguments on Thursday, I only said that it was widely reported in major English dailies that Sengottaiyan would be made as the chief minister replacing Palaniswami. But it was not the intention of the MLAs to do, senior counsel P S Raman said.
 
 This apart, pointing out the submission made on behalf of the speaker that he did not act against O Panneerselvam and 10 other MLAs when they voted against the motion of confidence moved by Palaniswami, in view of the pending dispute over the party and the two leafs symbol before the Election Commission of India (ECI), Raman said, “This applies to us too. Till the ECI passed its order on November 12, 2017 the AIADMK did not exist. The present case and that of   case are similar and closely linked in the factual matrix.”
 
 The constitutional process as sought by the 18 MLAs in their letter to the governor did not necessarily mean the constitutional process of proclamation of President’s rule but could also mean the process of removal of the Chief Minister through constitutional means, he added.
 
 The AIADMK was not deprived of a further opportunity of forming a government after a change in the legislature party leadership. The Yeddyurappa case has been holding the field for the past seven years and that the letter written by the 18 MLAs were similar to those sent by the   MLAs to the Karnataka governor, Raman argued.
 
 However, to a pointed question put forth by Justice M Sundar as to whether the 18 MLAs in the event of a floor test would have voted as per the whip or not, the senior counsel preferred not to commit with either a yes or no stating that it would have solely depended on the state of mind of the MLAs then. 
 
 As all the parties to the pleas had concluded their arguments, the bench posted the cases to January 23 for the parties to file their respective written arguments.
 
 
 
