CHANDIGARH: Aam Aadmi Party described the Punjab government’s budget on Saturday as anti-farmer and without vision. 

 Leader of opposition   said the   government was playing with the sentiments of farmers, forcing them to commit suicide. “How can you get away by announcing Rs 1,500 crore for farm debt waiver in 2017-18 budget and then only spend Rs 370 crore?” he asked.
 
 Khaira said there could not be a bigger joke than that. He said there was nothing in the budget for youth, weaker sections of society, dalits and women. “It is an extended budget of the SAD-BJP government’s 10-year rule. The Congress ius not serious about agriculture, farm suicides and agrarian crisis. It has failed to appoint a regular agriculture minister for a year. I appeal to farmers and farm labourers of Punjab not to commit suicide. They should fight for their rights,” he added.
 
 AAP Kharar MLA Kanwar Sandhu said it Punjab government was expected to come up with out-of-the-box ideas for resource mobilization, but it had failed. “The state government has levied a surcharge of Rs 200 per month on income tax payers. It is illegal to levy such tax after the rollout of goods and services tax by the central government,” said Sandhu.
 
 He said the state government thought of feeding people only with “jumlabaazi” and “shero shayari”. “What has the government done to bring industry? It has not even appointed an industry minister,” he said, adding that there was a deficit of around Rs 2 lakh crore, but resource mobilization in the 2018-19 budget was Rs 1,500 crore.
 
 Sunam MLA Aman Arora said though the state government had mentioned about the launch of its industrial policy in the budget, but it had failed to attract industry. “They have allocated a minuscule of the budget to education,” he added. “Though government hospitals are in poor condition, the state government’s allocation to the medical sector is less.”
 
 Another AAP MLA, Sarabjit Kaur, said the state government had failed to fulfil its promises. “Even this budget does not mention how many houses will be built by the state government for the downtrodden. It could not provide books to students of government schools till December last year,” she said.
 
 
