GURUGRAM: A 15-member team consisting of five   from the corporate world, five imams and five Muslim villagers has been formed to visit all sites in the city where   is read in the open and try to bring down the number by Thursday morning.

 “The district administration had asked us to form a committee to sort out this issue, and therefore, we chose 15 people from our community,” said an   executive who is a member of the group. He did not wish to be named. “Police have given us a list of 76 sites where namaz is read in the open and have time till Thursday morning to visit all of them and ensure that coming Friday, namaz is not read on greenbelts and roads,” he added. 
 
 He said the committee had also been asked to “curtail the number of sites and make sure the distance between two sites is at least one and a half kilometres”. “This is not going to be an easy task. A majority of those who come to these sites are people who do odd jobs to earn a living. Some of them drive autos, cabs, and work in offices and for them travelling to distant places to read namaz is not easy,” he said.
 
 The Muslim community asked the Gurugram administration why sites had not been allocated to build new mosques even after inviting applications in 2016. “On one hand, they blame us for reading namaz in the open, and on the other, they have not allotted us place to build new mosques,” said a community member. “In July 2016, the Gurugram administration had invited applications for allotment of seven religious sites. We applied for sites in sector 5, 9, 43, 50 and 52. We also attended the interview and requested the authorities that there is a need to build mosques so that we are not forced to offer namaz in the open. However the administration rejected our plea without giving us a credible answer,” he added.
 
 Gurugram divisional commissioner D Suresh and police commissioner Sandeep Khirwar, who had asked for the 15-member committee to be formed, could not be contacted despite repeated attempts.
 
 “We will meet the police commissioner on Thursday morning and submit a list of places that we have consolidated. We also demand that we should be given some document that allows us to read namaz in the open without any fear or opposition till the time a permanent solution is found,” said a member of the committee.
 
 
