COIMBATORE: At a time when the state government is planning to either close or merge government and government-aided schools due to low student enrolment, private schools in the state have received over 90,000 applications from students of weaker section of society for admission under the 25% reservation of right to education ( ) Act for the new academic year.

 
 The number of applicants has increased tremendously when compared to the previous years. In the last academic year, the schools had filled only 46,000 seats, even though, under the act, a total of 1.26 lakh seats from 9,000 private schools were reserved. It is only after the third phase of admission, the government managed to fill 95,858 seats, leaving the remaining seats vacant.
 
 While about 62,351 seats were reserved for the students in matriculation schools, another 30,000 seats were reserved in nursery and primary schools across the state according to the data received from the school education department. 
 
 While the school education department officials attribute the increase in applications to the increase in awareness, educationists said that there would be closure of more government schools if the situation persists.
 
 By ensuring 100% enrolment under reservation at private schools, the government is actually weakening government schools, said an educationist, adding that they had predicted such a situation long ago.
 
 While no government elementary schools has seeder classes — LKG and UKG — the government reserves seats for the seeder classes in private schools, said PB Prince   of state platform for common school system (SPCSS). “How will the students enrol in government schools after studying a few classes in private schools? By enrolling more number of students in private schools, the government will reduce the fund allocation for mid-day meals, free uniforms and text books. The government is giving money to the private institutions and not spending effectively on the children” he said.
 
