NEW DELHI: The sealing activity resumed after a short break on Wednesday as south corporation officials targeted illegal properties in some key markets. Teams from the building department sealed parts of outlets in GK-1 N-Block market. Nine properties, including high-end bars, restaurants, designer furniture shops and clothing outlets, were sealed. 

 Officials said the action was taken as per instructions of the SC-appointed monitoring committee for violations related to floor-area ratio and non-payment of conversion charges. The teams arrived in the market late in the afternoon and started inspecting basements and upper floors. "Ground floor and those floors for which conversion charges have been paid are not being touched," a senior official claimed.
 
  Traders demanded sealing be stopped till amendments to the Delhi master plan were effected. Varun, a trader from N6, alleged that this was "pure harassment". He said: "When the process for amending the master plan has already been initiated, what is the point of sealing the shops only to de-seal them later? Let there be clarity on the rules. One shop in the market has approval for FAR of 250 while another with 180 is accused of violation." 
 
 Manish Gupta, president of  , met members of the monitoring committee soon after the sealing action started. "The entire market has paid conversion charges. I met the monitoring committee members who refused to intervene. Why not let the amendment procedure finish first?" Gupta said.
 
 Officials, however, maintained that there was no court stay on sealing. The action continued till 5:30pm and was expected to resume on Thursday.
 
  South corporation officials also sealed parts of properties in the Kotla Mubarakpur timber market where 48 basements were closed. In  , nine units were sealed. "Action has been taken for misuse of residential premises," an official said. 
 
 North corporation, on the other hand, sealed seven properties in areas like East Punjabi Bagh, Peeragarhi and Ashok Vihar Phase-I for stilt parking violations.
 
 
