Ahmedabad: After holding exhibition of killer plastics extracted from dead cows’ intestines at Wadhwan, Natu Parmar, the exhibitor, on Friday gave a chunk of 25-kg plastic extracted from a dead bovine to the Surendranagar district collectorate. Parmar handed over the plastic chunks to deputy collector Chandrakant Pandya along with a memorandum demanding chief minister Vijay Rupani's intervention to take stern action for protecting gauchars (pastoral land) and prevent cows from consuming plastic. “I requested the deputy collector to hand over this plastic as a gift to the CM during his visit to Surendrangar on May 13. If no concrete actions are taken against plastics, I will march up to Gandhinagar and gift the chunk to CM and dump a huge quantity at the state secretariat,” Parmar told TOI. The 25-kg-plastic was lifted by four persons and given to Pandya. Parmar also asked the deputy collector to gift the killer plastics to the chief minister during his visit to Surendranagar on May 13. Parmar said that they will also seek CM's appointment to hand him over another chunk of plastic so that he can see the reality. Parmar has set up an exhibition at Wadhwan on Ahmedabad-Gandhidham highway to give the message of cow protection in a unique way. When contacted, Pandya said that Parmar had earlier given a memorandum regarding the plastic and he came with another stock to the collectorate. “After receiving his memorandum and plastic chunk, we asked civic body officials to ensure that plastic is not dumped indiscriminately and directed them to ensure swift disposal of littered plastic so that cows don’t eat it. Besides, the district development officer (DDO) has been instructed to clear illegal encroachment on pastoral land so the bovines get their fodder,” Pandya told TOI. Parmar said that he adopted this unique exhibition to give a strongly worded message as his representations to the government remained unheard.  Parmar claimed he has around 1000 chunks of plastics—ranging between 25kg and 70 kg, which were extracted from the intestines of dead cows.