Shimla: After becoming the chief minister of Himachal Pradesh, Jai Ram Thakur on Sunday reached at his village Tandi in Seraj assembly constituency amid rousing reception by people enroute. 

 A mega road show was organised at Thunag as Jai Ram was driven in an open jeep through the market with thousands of his supporters raising slogans ‘Aan Hamari, Shaan Hamari, Jai Ram Thakur Jaan Hamari’ (Jai Ram Thakur is our glory, our hero). Thunag bazar echoed with sound of crackers with people and children dancing despite chill.
 
 He was accompanied by irrigation and public health minister Mahinder Singh Thakur and his family members. 
 
 Addressing a public meeting at Thunag, the CM said a new responsibility ha been given to him by the people of the state and he planned to carry his duties with diligence and sincerity. “I am obliged for the warm welcome accorded to me in my constituency,” he said, adding that it was a courtesy visit for his constituents to thank them for their support and affection.
 
 “We gave a slogan much earlier, ‘Shikhar ki Aur Seraj’ and today Seraj was on the top and that was due to the people of this region,” he said. He also announced an IPH division at Thunag.
 
 “I have been through tough times and the people of Seraj today have given me a much bigger responsibility as their chief minister,” he said while expressing gratitude to the people who stood by him like a pillar from his last five terms as MLA from the area.
 
 “There were rumours that there was a tough competition in Seraj and the Congress candidate was going strong, but I am thankful to the people who ensured my victory by a huge margin of around 11,500 votes. Besides, I am also indebted to the people of Mandi district, who ensured a clean sweep of BJP wiping the Congress completely out of the district,” he added.
 
 Meanwhile, Mahinder Singh Thakur congratulated and thanked the people for giving a huge mandate to the CM. The IPH minister said working of the government led by Jai Ram Thakur would be entirely different from the previous chief ministers. He asked the people to go with the CM till the next 25 years and together ensure that BJP continued to rule till next 25 years for a stable, transparent and a strong government for the welfare of the people.
 
 
