NAGPUR: Incomplete cement road works in the city, which have become a cause of concern for the citizens, are set to get a boost as the state government has released a Rs60 crore special fund to the   ( ).

 The urban development department has specifically mentioned in its government resolution that the fund could be used only for road works, though the cash strapped NMC is in dire need of funds to clear dues that have crossed Rs200 crore, confirmed a source from the NMC’s accounts and finance department.
 
 The government has also issued a set of guidelines for the fund utilization. The collector’s office has to ensure the funds are utilized only for sanctioned works having administrative approval and work orders issued after completion of e-tender process. Another major criteria   will have to ensure that the roads once concretized need not be dug up for pipeline or sewer projects. Any such work, if needed, should be carried out before concretization of the tar road work begins.
 
 At present, due to non-payment to contractors the work to convert tar roads into cement ones is progressing at a snail’s pace affecting commuters on 64 roads.
 
 “Of the 89 roads covering 81.68km under  , the civic body could complete only 22.73% work,” said a senior official from NMC’s public works department. TOI has also highlighted that the incomplete road work or the sluggish pace at which the work is being undertaken is putting citizens to a lot of inconvenience.
 
 Despite the fund crunch, the standing committee had given approval to start cement concretization of 28 roads at a cost of Rs156.86 crore under phase-III. The NMC will convert 39 tar roads (41.5km) under the phase. Under phase-I, the NMC had selected 30 different stretches totalling 26.26km of tar roads to be converted into cement ones. But till date, the contractor could complete only 9.95km of roads that covered 14 stretches.
 
 The senior officer said work on five roads is on, while the work on six stretches was cancelled due to various reasons. Work on five roads was delayed due to   infrastructure development.
 
 A senior official from the public works department admitted that lack of funds was affecting the progress of cement road work. Due to non-payment, contractors converting 55.42km roads under phase-II have been able to complete only 12.6km of roads from one end to the other. The contractors have also failed to complete remaining works of footpaths, dividers etc, the official added.
 
 Now, with the release of this special fund, the NMC will clear partial dues of the contractors so that work may gain some momentum.
 
 
