CHENNAI: From pampered children to newly-weds and adventurists, the youths who perished in the killer fire on Kurangani hills have left their families shattered. 

 In Chennai, a pall of gloom descended on the houses of victims Arun Prabhakaran, 28, of Maduravoyal, Nisha, 30, of Velachery and Punitha, 25, of Guduvancherry. Anu Vidhya, 26 is undergoing treatment with 90%burns. Vidhya’s house located on Velachery main road in   is lined up with trophies. An athlete and a school teacher, she has been trekking every year. "She is the first daughter in our family and pampered by everyone. The rescue efforts could have reached them little early," said her father.
 
 Another victim, B Punitha, 28, a techie from Chengalpet, had got married only on January 28. She chose to trek alone without her husband Balaji as she was passionate about the event. Employed in an IT firm in Velachery, Punitha loved to explore nature. "Though her family members were not ready to let her as she was just married, her husband was a great support to her," said her friend Krithika.
 
 Arun Prabhakaran, manager of Chennai Trekking club and a sports enthusiast, was employed at Chennai Harbour. "He had organized several trekking events and always ensured safety measures," said his friend Vijayakumar. Nisha, 30 was a techie employed at an IT firm in Manapakkam. Her family members were camping in Madurai where she had been admitted to a hospital with severe burns.
 
 I Jayashree from Chennai, who suffered nearly 50% burns, had not informed her parents about the trek. She had told them she was going to meet friends in Bengaluru over the weekend. Indeed, Jayashree and three of her friends went to Bengaluru but they took a detour via Munnar hills in Kerala to reach Kurangani for trekking. It was a shock for her father Ilangovan to know that his daughter was among the injured in the Theni forest fire. An IT professional from Chennai, she was air-lifted from GRH in Madurai to a private hospital in Coimbatore, which has a skin bank.
 
 Another survivor, K Sahana,20, from Chrompet, said they split into two groups. While those who ran upwards were caught in the fire, Sahana and three others ran the other way and were rescued by locals.
 
 Erode-based couple R Vivek, 27 had gone trekking with wife Divya, 25, to celebrate the 100th day of marriage when the tragedy struck. Hailing from different communities –   was a Mudaliar and Divya, a Vannar – they were triumphant in the battle to convince their families to agree to the relationship. However, fate willed otherwise. Divya suffered 90 per cent burns in the fire and was battling for life.
 
 Vivek was working in a private company in Dubai while Divya was a homemaker who later got a job in a private company. 
 
 The blaze also snuffed out the life of their friend Tamilselvan, 26, of the same village who gave in to the couple’s persuasion to join the trip. Balaji, another friend, said that he somehow excused himself when they requested him also to go with them.
 
 D Vipin, 32, from Coimbatore who died on Sunday, was one of the main organisers of the trekking along with wife Divya, 30, and R Arun Prabhakaran.
 
 
