GURUGRAM: In the end, BJP president and   member Amit Shah’s much-publicised Yuva Hunkar Rally failed to evoke the expected response, sparing commuters of the anticipated logjams on the city’s roads on Thursday morning. In fact, many of the participants of the bike rally, who were to head from Gurugram to the rally site in Jind, gathered at the designated assembly points between 7.30 am and 8.15 am, but returned home with their bikes.

 Assembly points in the city where participants gathered in the morning included Basai flyover on SPR, Farrukhnagar mandi, Pataudi vegetable mandi and Tauru. According to sources, while around 1,400 men in bikes had gathered in Gurugram’s assembly points, not even 300 reached Jind. Some even returned after riding a short distance with the participants.
 
 There were few participants from Faridabad, arriving in groups of 5-10 between 9-9.30am. According to sources, around 200-300 people crossed the city via Golf Course (extension) Road and Sohna road on to the expressway towards Basai and then to Jind. As a result, the unusual traffic on the borders never materialised. In fact, they were hardly visible along the route.
 
 Around 1,000 people — from Mewat, Sohna, Tauru and Palwal — are said to have crossed the city’s southern outskirts. The Jhajjar border, on the route which the bikes were set to take, saw little traffic due to bikes. The route was empty, but for the security personnel, including paramilitary forces, who were deployed in large numbers.
 
 ACP (traffic) Hira Singh said movement on city roads was smooth and no untoward incident took place. “We’d deployed staff in all areas where traffic was expected. There was no major snarl anywhere because of the rally,” he said. In the evening, the participants started returning around 6pm, and were spotted till late in the evening.
 
 Around 150 traffic cops, headed by 3 ACPs and 10 inspectors, were deployed to man the city, apart from duty cops who were on several parts of the city to maintain law and order. 
 
 The opposition was quick to point out that Shah’s rally was a flop. “The empty chairs clearly point out that people are fed up with this government and are desperately looking for a change. The number of rapes and murders have increased, law and order is in bad shape. People have come to know the true character of this government, that it only believes in making announcements. The Khattar government misused official machinery to organise this event. We demand BJP should pay for this,” said state   president Ashok Tanwar.
 
 INLD too said BJP governments, both at the state and the Centre, stand exposed. “The number of security personnel exceeded that of the crowd. They had claimed there will be lakhs of people, but in reality there were hardly a few thousand. 
 
 “Official machinery was misused and the BJP government stands exposed. In their election manifesto, they had made 154 promises, but haven’t fulfilled any,” said INLD Gurugram president Gopi Chand Gehlot.
 
 Earlier, the National Green Tribunal (NGT) disposed off a plea seeking reduction in the number of bikes in the rally, on grounds that it will cause pollution. This, after   (HSPCB) told NGT all bikes have pollution under control (PUC) certificates. “After conducting a thorough inspection, we found that participating bikes have obtained all clearances, including PUC. Also, enough volunteers have been deployed to tackle noise pollution along the route,” said a HSPCB official.
 
 With inputs from Joel Joseph and Shilpy Arora
 
 
