LUCKNOW: Four of the 85   awardees whose names were announced on the eve of Republic Day hail from  , bringing honours to the state.

 Well-known classical singer Ustad Ghulam Mustafa Khan, who belongs to   has been conferred the prestigious Padma Vibhushan for his distinguished service to art and music. Born in Badaun, Khan was awarded Padma Shri in 1991 and Padma Bhushan in 2006.
 
 86-year-old Ustad Ghulam Mustafa Khan said, "It's great. I must say it's better late than never. The journey has been difficult but fruitful."
 
 Khan, a well-known singer, music director, and music teacher has trained several noted playback singers including  , Hariharan,   and  . He will be honoured by chief minister Yogi Adityanath on Republic Day. The other three - Anwar Jalalpuri, Bhagirath Prasad Tripathi, popular as 'Vagish Shastri' and Mohan Swaroop Bhatia - have been conferred the Padma Shri.
 
 Jalalpuri, an Urdu poet from Lucknow, who has been awarded posthumously, is had translated over 700 shlokas of Bhagwad Gita from Sanskrit to Urdu. Both Jalapuri and Tripathi have been awarded for distinguished service in literature and education while Bhatia has been awarded for his service in art - for folk music.
 
  A renowned Sanskrit scholar, 84-year-old Prof Tripathi told TOI, "I am extremely happy for this honour and would like to thank the government for recognising my service to Sanskrit. I dedicate this honour to my gurus and the world of Sanskrit."
 
 "There are unexplored treasures of manuscripts in Sanskrit, Pali and Prakrit all over the world. The India office library in London has a vast collection of Sanskrit manuscripts. The government should bring this priceless treasure to India," he added. Shastri got a lot of publicity for teaching Sanskrit pronunciation to pop star  . He is also known to have invented a new technique for teaching Sanskrit without the need of painstaking memorization of hundreds of grammatical formulas. 
 
 Octogenarian Mohan Swaroop Bhatia (83) of Mathura said, "It is not an award to me but an award to all people who have helped me in collecting rare folk songs. I have collected more than 5,000 folk songs which have now become rare and are hardly sung. I am happy that 'Braj ka loksangeet' has finally got its due."
 
 
