PHAGWARA: Final prayer meeting was held in the memory of Yashwant ‘Bobby’, who had received a bullet in his head during a clash between Dalit activists and Hindu groups on the night of April 13 and died two weeks later. While police had made elaborate security arrangements in the town which included diverting traffic from National Highway for a few hours in the afternoon, the event went off peacefully.

 What took most of attendees by surprise was the announcement by some   leaders that the ‘Gol Chowk’ on National Highway would now definitely be named ‘Sanvidhaan Chowk’. A hoarding changing the name ‘Sanvidhaan Chowk’ was installed by the activists of Ambedkar Sena (Mool Niwasi) which was opposed by right wing Hindu groups and a clash had ensued.
 
 The leaders, attending the event held at a marriage palace on  , also termed Bobby a martyr of   chowk. Prominent among those who participated in the prayer meeting were: former Congress minister Joginder Singh Mann, Congress MLA Raj Kumar Verka, SAD MLA  , BSP Punjab president Rashpal Raju and LIP leader Jarnail Nangal. Prominent Valimiki community leaders included Chandan Grewal and Vijay Danav.
 
 Both Verka and Mann announced that now the name of the chowk would be Sanvidhaan chowk and there would be no going back on that. Notably, after CM Amarinder Singh had given his consent for renaming of the chowk, local   mayor Arun Khosla had opposed it and said that name could be given only if the civic body passed a resolution. He had said that MC would reiterate its earlier resolution of naming the chowk as Bhagat Singh Chowk. There was no reaction from BJP on the development on Sunday.
 
 LIP leader Jarnail Nangal, who has also been in the eye of storm after the clash, said that those who opposed naming of the crossing were “anti-national”. He said that same set of people had been creating trouble in the town for the last several years and were involved in conflicts with other communities.   president Rashpal Raju handed over aid of Rs 1.75 lakh to Bobby’s family and asked the Dalits and minorities to come together to oppose the “divisive forces”. Punjab Safai Mazdoor Federation president Chandan Grewal handed over aid of Rs 1 lakh from his organization.
 
 The town has been on edge since the clash and heavy deployment of police and paramilitary forces has continued in the town.
 
