INDORE: The district administration’s plan to implement a   on the commercial establishments in residential areas has been withdrawn by the state government.

 “I had raised the issue of Indore collector carrying out a survey of the commercial activities being carried out in residential areas before chief minister   in a meeting in Bhopal on Tuesday. He was informed about huge resentment among the   against lagaan and thus, the CM promised to put a ban on implementation of the new tax forever,” a press release issued by MLA Sudarshan Gupta reads.
 
 Indore was the only district where the administration had decided to implement lagaan as a new source to generate revenue. The authority had prepared a list of around 250 big and small commercial establishments across the district and had set a target of recovering Rs 50 crore of revenue from them.
 
 It’s only after a team of revenue officials reached Rajwada, Sarafa, Bartan Bazaar and   to carry out a survey of commercial establishments further to calculate the tax, both the major political parties took to streets in support of the traders.
 
 Apart from carrying out a signature drive and burning notices issued to the traders under section-60 of MPLRC-1959, a delegation of senior   leaders including MLA Jitu Patwari, city president Pramod Tandon and former MP Sajjan Verma met the collector Nishant Warwade and registered their protest against the new tax.
 
 Later, local BJP leaders also extended their support to traders and promised them to talk to chief minister to put a ban on lagaan.
 
 After the chief minister’s decision of withdrawing the new tax came, local leaders from Congress and BJP expressed happiness and claimed it as their victory.
 
 “In the election year, the ruling BJP government does not want to give any issue to the Congress to garner the public support. The local administrative officials did not take the senior authorities into confidence for lagaan and thus the CM finally put a ban on it” a senior administrative official said.
 
 
