SURAT: The police on Monday arrested six more accused for their involvement in the   from   of the city on March 14. Police had earlier arrested two accused and are yet to arrest six more people involved in the loot. 

 Crime branch arrested Satendrakumar Mehaksingh Jat (52), a resident of Rohini in Delhi, but native of Baghpat, Uttar Pradesh; Pradeep alias Monu Dharamsinh Gujjar (25); Raju alias Chochu Jitendrainh Gujjar (19), both residents of Andawali village in Meerut of Uttar Pradesh; Sunitkumar alias Sumit Sukhpal Chamar (26), a resident of Samaspur in Uttar Pradesh; Upendra Rajendra Jat (44), a resident of Baghpat; and Sonu Surendrasinh Gujjar (19), a resident of Jainpur village in Uttar Pradesh. The accused were arrested by a team of crime branch led by V V Bhola from Uttar Pradesh.
 
 Police are yet to arrest Mohit Pratap Singh, Azadkhan Pathan, Ankit Karmvirsingh Gujjar, Kapil alias Vakil, Ujjwal alias UD, Harsit Singh Suryavanshi, all residents of Uttar Pradesh. Police investigation revealed that the accused, who are yet to be arrested, were also involved in firing at   alias Mammu Chand Mohommad Hansoti, a history-sheeter. Two rounds were fired at Hansoti on December 25, 2017, near Raja Ovara and the offence in this connection was registered at Lal Gate police station.
 
 Two accused arrested earlier were Arjun alias Arvind Santnarayan Pandey and Manvendra alias Manish Krushnakumarsingh Thakur. Pandey, who had a vocational skills training institute, was the mastermind of the loot. Pandey had recently started a security agency Advance Powerguard Pvt Ltd and one of the accused Mohit was managing his operations. Pandey had contacted other accused through Mohit and Kapil. The accused upon reaching the city carried out a recce of the spot in Pandey’s Ford Endeavour and Azad’s BMW.
 
 The accused handed over the diamonds to Pandey after the robbery and returned to Uttar Pradesh through different modes of transport. A few of them escaped to Vadodara in a state transport bus and boarded a train to Uttar Pradesh from there. The robbers threw a country-made pistol, which they had used in the loot on the campus of M S UniversiSty. An offence was registered at Sayajiganj police station of Vadodara when the pistol was found.
 
 
