There’s a plethora of lit fests all of a sudden. We have dozens of writers and speakers sharing their opinions, their arguments and their wisdom with us, all literally enthusing. As there are book fairs, but no new or better book stores. The few in the middle of the city are masquerading gift shops. The ones in the north are more for focused browsing and buying. And of course there are torrid debates and nearly-political positions on digital and hard copy reading and buying.

 You and I know that written word generation/output has increased manifold and that there is far more available to read today than there ever was before. Printed and digital text have glutted our senses, attempting to compete hard with the audio-visual and burgeoning VR media that is taking it so much further. Our ability to be easily distracted is increasing, keeping pace with rapidly developing technology, greatly reducing our attention spans. I know of gatherings where like-minded people sit together, drink and eat, but stay mostly occupied with their mobile phones. Cocooned as they are in their own reading and writing, one is equally aware that it is not the same as the reading and writing promoted at book fairs and lit fests.
 
 Yet, despite all the boring forwards and good morning messages on social media, the rare sense of quirky humour or genuine pathos does come through. Wasted of course, flung away in some digital dustbin. Not much of this can be harnessed, if ever. The onground activities continue nevertheless, more utsavs attracting thousands. Are there more readers? There is a sideways answer to this quoting awesome financial facts of the publishing industry and the wise opinionation of those who charge big money for their wisdom. Can the great growth of the Indian publishing industry be somehow mirrored in the new findings of the Indian Readership Survey (IRS)? Newspaper reading has gone up by 39% in metro cities with populations over 50 lakh and above 12 years of age. The significant statistic is that rural readership is up 24% compared to the 12% of urban readership. The overall increase of a 11-crore readership across the country has evidently resulted from the launch of many new
 
 publications as well. It would be interesting to know which regions of the country have largely contributed to this growth, even though the sample size surveyed was 3.3 lakh households.
 
 An empirical study by   in 2006 of Higher Secondary students in  , showed that 75% of the students disliked speaking English, while 77% preferred writing English in the class. It was also found that 66% students did not practice listening to English. IRS 2017 says English newspaper
 
 reading is up by 10% and Bengali up by 9%. Hindi is up by 40%. People are more and more using a mix of digital and hard copy for their reading interests. On the other hand, TV still leads as the medium with the most reach at 75%, followed by newspapers at 39% with radio and the internet at 19% each. Magazines have a reach of only 5% and cinema, sadly, 3%. I am not sure if books figure in their findings.
 
 These facts spin around in my awareness of how India reads and consumes media. What they prove are still being studied and it does not seem to be a process that will end soon. Linking all these data may be a tenuous exercise, but worth considering in a holistic kind of way. An imaginatively written piece of 16th century historical fiction made into a hugely-expensive commercial film created an uproar that was ridiculous and menacing at the same time. Reading, they say, opens up your mind. Well, “they” were just proven wrong in north India. A terrorist group of the new literate created a situation of utter chaos, completely disregarding fundamental rights in opposition to the highest court of the land, with their fervent objection to a medium that reaches 3% of our population. That the entire affair may have just been an elaborate publicity stunt is also up for reading.
 
 Margaret Mead’s eternal advice, “Children must be taught how to think, not what to think” is given as a topic of ‘discussion’ on ‘its meaning and importance for contemporary India’, in 150 words no less, in an online tutorial for IAS examination hopefuls. The submissions, without doubt, would make avid reading. However, this does resonate with what an English professor of a city university recently remarked of guardians with “somewhat fixed ideas about what their wards should read” visiting the   and being disappointed with some of the stalls’ offerings. If we are reading more, are we learning more? Is there so much media content that we no longer think for ourselves, finding it simpler to follow another’s thoughts? Are we just passive consumers of too much media endlessly flitting about our fleeting interests, constantly searching for the next big one?
 
 I read the news today, oh boy/ About a lucky man who made the grade/ And though the news was rather sad/ Well I just had to laugh, I saw the photograph. Though mostly written by  , this Beatles song from their Sgt Pepper’s Lonely Hearts Club Band album is considered to be their greatest song ever. In the abstraction of the lyrics of  , a point is being made of media and its impact.
 
 
