KASARAGOD: In a country where 'rath yatra' has become synonymous to the demolition of a mosque, this quaint little village of Udyavar at   here begs to differ. 

 Sri Udyavara Arasumanjushnath temple in the village ensures the participation of the Muslim community by ritualistically inviting the members of 1,000 Jama'ath Mosque, just over 100 metres away, to its annual festival marked by taking out a chariot procession. In reciprocation, the mosque representatives invite the temple custodians to its festival, which is held once in five years.
 
 The religious institutions have been following this custom for the past three generations. The inviting part is carried out ceremoniously where the custodians of the temple led by three velichappad (oracles) visit the mosque on the first Friday after Vishu. The elders of the Muslim community, led by Imam of the mosque, are entrusted with the responsibility to invite the Hindus to their festival.
 
 The four-day-long temple festival is usually held in May, and this year it is scheduled from May 9 to 12. 
 
 "This has been followed from the times of our great grandfathers," said Sukumar Shetty, who is the present manju bhandari (senior-most person of the family of the custodians of the temple).
 
 The legend behind the custom is that when the deities of the temple travelled all the way to the land, crossing the sea, they first met the custodians of the mosque, who welcomed them wholeheartedly. 
 
 It was decided then that they would meet everyday, and this should be known to the public for which they would ritualistically invite each other, he explained.
 
 It is also widely believed that whoever had tried to break this indelible bond between the two religious institutions had met with mysterious ends.
 
 "We are active participants of the temple festival. The temple authorities offer us a truckload of vegetables, ghee and rice during the mosque festival," said T S Sayyed, who has been representing the mosque at the temple festival for the past eight years.
 
 Also, the seniors from both the communities share a common platform built around a banyan tree in front of the main shrine during the festival days. "Minor disputes between families are settled during this sitting," Shetty said.
 
 "The temple and mosque are exemples of not just peaceful religious coexistence, but also of uphold the unity of humankind beyond parochial religious considerations. The district administration appreciates and also extends them all possible help," said district collector K Jeevan Babu.
 
 
