NAGPUR: It has been a memorable January for  . The month started with the seniors winning the Ranji Trophy title and has now ended with the juniors claiming the   Under-19 Trophy. Both won at maiden attempts.

 
 As soon as the mandatory overs began on the last day of the final between Vidarbha and Madhya Pradesh, hosts skipper   offered MP batsmen to call off the game. With a big lead, Vidarbha had already ensured the championship on the third day. MP, 7 down for 176, duly agreed.
 
 The reserve players immediately rushed to the middle as Vidarbha coach   and other members of the support staff watched them form a huddle in the middle. The youngsters knew they had created the history. It was time to express themselves. They screamed with enthusiasm, hugged each other before rushing to the dressing room for a customary hand shake with their counterparts.
 
 It's the third championship for Vidarbha in the last 13 months after   last January and Ranji Trophy earlier this year. 
 
 Not only did Vidarbha remain unbeaten throughout the season, they also didn't concede lead in the nine matches. They conquered the mighty Karnataka in quarter final; quelled the spirited Punjab challenge in the semi-final and now grounded the balanced Madhya Pradesh in the final with some clinical display. 
 
 In the group stage, Vidarbha overcame the challenge of strong sides like Uttar Pradesh, Hyderabad and Himachal and showed ruthlessness against the likes of Tripura, A & A team (from North-East) and Jammu & Kashmir.
 
 Taide, who was unbeaten on 313 and was eyeing  's 19-year-old record of the highest score of 358 in a final, was finally dismissed for 320 (483b, 34x4, 1x6). The left-hander didn't rue missing the landmark. "I was aware of the record but wasn't chasing it. The plan was to bat as long as possible. It was a last-day wicket and the ball was turning and I got out," the 18-year-old said after winning the coveted trophy.
 
 "We wanted to bat only once and for a minimum of 140 overs. I got set and capitalized on the start. After reaching my century, I just continued in the same way and the triple hundred happened," said Vidarbha's first triple centurion at any level.
 
 Team spirit is something Usman Ghani has always inculcated in his players. He gave credit to the whole bunch. "It doesn't happen in one day. The boys did extremely well. I told them we are as good as any team in the country," Ghani said.
 
 The preparations had started right from the time Ghani was given 30 boys for the summer camp. "I realized then itself we have champion players. We had the backing of the association, especially cricket in-charge   who kept saying we had it in us to become champions. It motivated us," he said.
 
 The Ranji Trophy victory also rubbed on the youngsters who felt motivated by their seniors' achievement. "We didn't lose a single match this season, neither in one-dayers nor in the longer version," said Ghani.
 
 Vaidya was a happy man too. Three trophies have come under him and that too in a short span. "Ranji Trophy was a dream but I was very confident about the Under-19 team. The attitude and approach of the players were fantastic," Vaidya said.
 
 "The talent was there in past, it's there now and will remain in future as well. It's the question of self-belief. You need to know what is beyond that wall. Once you cross that you can tell others how to do it," Vaidya said.
 
