GURUGRAM:   chief   on Monday said he won’t allow the movie   to be released in the country. “Removing ‘I’ from the film’s name does not change anything. 

 “The problem is not solved,” said Kalvi. “Sanjay Leela Bhansali always creates a scene that provokes controversy, to get free publicity and make the movie a blockbuster,” he added, speaking to the media at Rajput Vatika on Delhi road in Gurgaon.
 
 Two historians and member of the erstwhile royal family of Mewar attended a special screening of Padmaavat held by   (CBFC). 
 
 Those who attended the screening included historians   of IGNOU, Chandramani Singh of Jaipur, and descendants of Mewar royalty Arvind Singh. There were four other people, including CBFC chairperson Prasoon Joshi, at the screening held in the evening of December 28.
 
 “Rajputs who have seen the film have raised an objection, saying the film is a sheer distortion of facts. Under the present hyper-sensitive environment, some dialogues and scenes are not conducive to Hindu-Muslim and Rajput-Brahmin relations. The role of history is to fill gaps, not to intensify fault lines,” said historian Kapil Kumar.
 
 Karni Sena said they have received a letter from Sanjay Leela Bhansali (TOI has a copy) promising to show them the film before release. But, said Kalvi, they haven’t been shown the film as promised. 
 
 “My problem is that the film depicts a romantic dream sequence between Rani Padmavati and Allaudin Khilji. Questions are being asked about this scene. The entire Rajput caste is angry,” said Kalvi.
 
 Karni Sena said they will continue their protests till the film gets banned. “Till now, 1,908 women have registered with the Karni Army ready to go commit jauhar (self-immolation) in public against the film’s release,” Kalvi added. He said Supreme Court has just accepted review petitions of two states (Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh), which express hope the film won’t be released. 
 
 Meanwhile, the state government said it will respect Supreme Court’s verdict. Chief minister Manohar Lal Khattar said, “We’ll provide full security to anyone who screens the film in the state.”
 
 
