UDAIPUR: Chief minister Vasundhara Raje arrived at Bhadsauda in Kapasan constituency on Sunday for her four-day-visit in Chittorgarh district. She was given a warm greeting by party workers and the public who gathered in large number to get addressed their grievances.

 Raje's programme was delayed by an hour as she arrived around 12.30 pm at   temple premises where a large gathering had been waiting for her. During the first day, the chief minister held several meetings with party workers, prominent and leading figures from various walks of life.
 
 Raje was hearing the   till the news going in to print, sources claimed. On popular demand for lifting the stay on land conversion in the surrounding area of Sanwaliya temple, Raje instructed the collector to lift the ban on land conversion around the temple periphery, leaving sufficient land required for the temple development and extension works.
 
 Raje showed much concern over the implementation of Rajshri scheme wherein financial aid is extended to poor families for girls education. The chief minister spoke to some beneficiaries and enquired whether the fund is actually being spent on education the girl.Speaking about Bhamashah Yojana, Raje said that now on infants whose parents have annual income below 2.5 Lakh rupees and ailing from congenital heart disease would be provided free medical care at hospitals. Raje also sought feedback from the common man about functioning of various departments. She asked whether authorities are prompt in resolving the issues faced by the people specially in remote areas. The chief minister was particularly concerned on the timely disbursement of funds under various schemes like Rajshri and Bhamashah. Raje distributed laptops and scooties to meritorious girl students of Kapasan area. 
 
 During her meetings with the party workers, Raje keenly asked them about the general feedback on the government working and satisfaction level. During the meetings, UDH minister Srichand Kriplani, MP C.P.Joshi, Kapasan MLA Arjunlal Jeengar etc were present. On Monday, Raje would hold mandalwise meetings at Nimbahera while she would go to Badisadri and Chittorgarh constituency areas on tuesday and wednesday respectively.
 
 
