Nagpur: The Doctor of Pharmacy Association (DPA) has submitted a memorandum to the Union health minister JP Nadda during his visit to the city a few days ago demanding that the Pharm D (Doctor of Pharmacy) course at the only two government-run colleges in Amravati and Aurangabad be recognized by the Pharmacy Council of India (PCI). The association has also requested the minister to ensure that the PCI issues certificates to the students who have passed out from these colleges so that they can practice.

 DPA president Vinayak Ghayal told TOI that a delegation of association members met Nadda and appraised him of the problems faced by the Pharm D students. Nadda asked them to meet the higher education minister of Maharashtra, Vinod Tawde, and resolve the issue of asking the colleges to fill up all the posts. 
 
 Regarding the issue of PCI not issuing practice registration certificate, Nadda told them to hold a meeting in Delhi. “We are meeting him on Monday,” said Ghayal. 
 
 The course which creates clinical pharmacists was introduced in India by the union ministry of health and family welfare and PCI to produce competent pharmacists to improve patient care. It is master’s degree course and students with this degree can directly register for PhD.
 
 Ghayal said that the minister assured to consider the issue and try to resolve it at the earliest. “It’s not our fault that the two colleges did not have full-time dedicated teachers, the enquired facilities and infrastructure. It led to the PCI not issuing the practice registration certificates,” he said.
 
 The association informs that there are 233 Pharm D colleges in India, all of which are in the private sector. The state has eight colleges. At present about 1,000 students are pursuing the course in state. The DPA has requested the government of Maharashtra government to create a ‘clinical pharmacist’ cadre in every hospital as per the WHO norms.
 
 The jobs of the clinical pharmacists include prescription analysis, identifying any over or under utilization of medication, drug interactions and adverse drug reaction monitoring, identifying in correct drug dosages, tackling drug abuse or misuse.
 
 
