SECUNDERABAD: The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation ( ) will take a final decision on Saturday on taking over a portion of the British-era playground in   for the proposed bus bay even as protests by young cricketers and sports enthusiasts continued for the second day on Friday.

 With the uproar of budding players, coaches, locals and veteran cricketers against the bus bay getting louder, GHMC got into the action and sent an official team to inspect the playground on Friday. The team, which checked out the ground twice and interacted with the players and locals, will submit a report to the higher-ups. The corporation is planning to take nearly 40 per cent of the playground land for constructing the bus bay and widening the road.
 
 A team of executive engineer and additional director (sports) visited the ground at 8am and spent more than one hour, while a three-member team led by   (sports)   was at the famed ground at 2 pm to take stock of the situation. When contacted, Prem Raj told TOI, “I was at the playground to resolve the issue. We took feedback from the players and locals. No land belonging to the playground will be carted away for the new bus bay without addressing the concerns of the players. We will take a final decision on Saturday.”
 
 When the officials interacted with senior sportsmen, players and residents, the latter strongly opposed GHMC’s move and said it would cast a blow to budding cricketers and baseball players’ ambitions. “We told the GHMC authorities that regular practice by players in the summer will suffer once a portion of the playground is taken away. GHMC is planning to use 600 metres of the playground land (over 40 per cent of the playground) for the bus bay,” senior cricket coach   told TOI.
 
 Coming to the defence of players, residents said GHMC has no right to take away the land. “To stop the illogical move, we will intensify our protests,” a resident said.
 
 Meanwhile, the ‘save Bison polo grounds’ campaigners also lent support by launching a signature campaign to save the Marredpally playground. More than 150 sportsmen signed to express solidarity and protect the playground. “We will run the campaign till GHMC withdraws the proposal,” said M  , one of the ‘save Bison polo ground’ campaigners.
 
