KOLKATA: It was the Calcutta high court and not the State Election Commission where the action shifted on Monday.

 While the   turned into a fortress with police imposing section 144 CrPC in its vicinity, the office remained out of bounds for all parties. Congress MP Pradip Bhattacharya who tried to take his complaints to the SEC was refused entry. BJP and CPM delegations, therefore, chose to move court.
 
 Three parties (BJP, Congress and PDS) filed separate petitions before the bench of Justice   challenging the SEC’s April 21notification because it “lacked clarity on polling and counting dates”. With HC lawyers on strike, the three petitioner — Riju Ghosal of Congress, Samir Putatunda of   and BJP’s   — appeared in person before the court. All three made mentions seeking the court’s permission to file their writ petitions. Initially, Justice Talukdar expressed his unwillingness, questioning why should another petition on the panchayat polls be filed when the court has already issued a detailed order in this regard. Ghosal responded to the judge, saying that the SEC notification was illegal.
 
 The bench then suggested the petitioners to file a contempt of court petition against SEC instead of a fresh writ. When the petitioners again contended they wanted to file a writ instead of a contempt petition, Justice Talukdar told them, “If you file your petitions today and serve notices to the respondents, I will hear it tomorrow at 10.30am.” The respondents, incidentally, are the SEC and the state government.
 
 After 2pm, all three filed their writs. Though separate, they said the Panchayat Act provides that an election notification for rural polls in Bengal provides that it should specify dates for filing nominations, scrutiny and withdrawal of nominations besides polling dates, a date for counting and another for completion of the poll process. But the April 21 notification neither specifies poll dates nor a date for counting.
 
 The SEC, however, remained silent. The commission, sources said, asked for a report within Tuesday from all DMs and SPs regarding Monday’s violence. On Monday, state election commissioner   was supposed to meet the political parties at 3pm, state representatives at 4pm and then announce dates. But neither did he meet the political parties nor had he any interaction with the state representatives.
 
