MUMBAI:   will have to wait for another six months to get an accreditation from the   (NAAC). 

 The last rating expired in April 2017 and since then, the university’s focus has been on firefighting exam- and result-related problems, putting the re-accreditation process on the backburner. 
 
 The new process requires the university to submit a detailed and more comprehensive self-assessment report on its performance in the last five years and will take six months at least, said university’s in-charge vicechancellor Devanand Shinde. 
 
 He said that the university’s   ( ) has been working on it for some time and will submit the report before the next cycle. Sources from the university, however, claim that getting the accreditation may take more than six months. 
 
 The new IQAC was formed about a month ago and the newly-appointed members have met only once so far, said a university official. 
 
 “NAAC work should have ideally commenced six months before its expiry date. For the accreditation expiring in April 2017, university should have started work on self-study report at least in November 2016. We are already late,” said the official. He added that since April, the university’s focus is only on the exam section. 
 
 “The primary concern of the university now is to assess papers and announce the results on time. The ongoing university’s senate elections is also time-consuming as all the electedacademic bodies need to be formed within a stipulated time-frame, as prescribed by the new universities’ act. None of the senior official posts in are currently occupied by full-time staff,” said another official. 
 
 He added that if someone puts in serious efforts, the target can be achieved in six months. Professor Neeraj Hatekar was earlier heading IQAC, but he gave up the post some time last year. 
 
 Professor Radha Srinivisan from the university’s physics department has been delegated responsibility of the IQAC. 
 
 A university professor said, “At a time when institutes and universities are competing to get funds from the centre, without a NAAC accreditation, cash-strapped Mumbai University may lag behind. Institutes are chosen for several UGC schemes based on their NAAC accreditation. 
 
 The university needs to get it act together and get the process done soon.” NAAC accepts proposals from institutions and universities in two phases in a year—from May 1 to June 30 and from November 1 to December 31. If university fails to submit application by the first half of the year, the accreditation process may take longer.
 
