The ‘maachhe-bhaate’ tag was so far been reserved for us — the fish loving Bengalis in the city. But now, several   restaurants, which have mushroomed across the city, have suddenly stolen the thunder with its exquisite range of   — the steamed fish/seafood-laden morsels of vinegar rice, served with special soy sauce and mind-blowing wasabi.
Eating sushi has its particular style too. Hold the piece with your fingers, dip it lightly in soy sauce, add a bit of wasabi (yes, only a bit!) and eat the morsel at one go. While some are still apprehensive about eating near-raw fish, lovers of Japanese cuisine swear by the soothing taste of sushi. While sushi comes in several varieties, you can only find the popular ones like nigiri and maki in Kolkata. And yes, there is veg sushi too, which includes ingredients like cream cheese and avocado. With its simple ingredients and low fat, sushi is one of those rare delicacies that tastes good and is also a healthy meal. So, what are you waiting for? Dig into this oh-so-yummy Japanese staple.
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 Assorted Non-Veg Sushi Platter 
 Pocket pinch: Rs 2,500
 This sushi platter consists eight different types of sushis such as the California roll, Philadelphia roll, ebi sushi (made of prawn), unagi sushi (made of eel), salmon sushi, maguro sushi (made of tuna), kani sushi (made of crab stick) and gunkan sushi. The delicacies are served with soy sauce and wasabi.
 
 
  
  
 
 Veg Sushi Platter
 Pocket pinch: Rs 975
 Pan Asian also offers something for the vegetarians who are fond of Japanese cuisine. Their veg sushi platter comprises variants like spicy crunchy roll and California cucumber roll. Assorted vegetables are placed on a bed of sticky rice and rolled with cucumber or the sushi is sprinkled with a spicy sauce to give it a tangy taste.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 Sushi Pizza
 Pocket pinch: Rs 670
 It comes in a typical triangular shape resembling a pizza, while the base is made of tortilla smeared with spicy mayo. For the topping, morsels of sticky rice are placed on the base with toppings of yellow and green zucchini along with sun-dried tomatoes and edamame. Edamame is a preparation of immature soybeans in the pod, found in cuisines with origins in East Asia.
 
  
  
 Sushi Donut
 Pocket pinch: Rs 695
 PaPaYa is a relatively new fine dining restaurant that opened its doors to Kolkatans a few months back. It swears by a complete reinvention of Asian cuisine on a global scale. With their experimentation and innovative dishes, it promises guests a sensory experience. The sushi donut, as the name suggests, comes in the shape of a donut and is of the nigiri type, meaning it comes without the nori sheet. It is made of salmon or tuna fish with a dollop of spicy mayonnaise. The top of the sushi is also garnished with three types of caviar or fish roe.
 
 
 
 Salmon Nigiri Sushi
 Pocket pinch: Rs 300
 With a ball of vinegared sushi rice topped with a slice of salmon, this dish is a must try if you are a fan of nigiri sushis. The salmon nigiri sushi is both delectable and also doesn’t burn a hole in your pocket.
 
  
  
 
 Veg California Roll
 Pocket pinch: Rs 250
 Uramaki means sushi rolls with the rice on the outside. The veg California roll is a type of sushi, which is a hit with the vegetarians. It consists of avocado, cucumber and carrot. The sushi rolls have white sesame seeds on it and the bite-sized pieces are served with wasabi, pickled ginger and soy sauce as dipping.
 
 
 
 Rainbow Roll
 Pocket pinch: Rs 840
 One of the newly-opened Japanese restaurants in town, Ajisai has gained popularity among Kolkatans for more reasons than one. This fine dining joint has the city’s first sushi conveyor belt. Kaiten-sushi, which in Japanese means ‘rotational sushi’, is served on a moving conveyor belt. Their rainbow roll sushi, as the name suggests, is a very colourful and a tasty dish. It’s made of crab meat mixed with avocado and rolled up with salmon and tuna.
 
 
  
  
 
 Spicy Cheese Roll
 Pocket pinch: Rs 350
 This veg variant from the restaurant comprises assorted vegetables and cheese. To give a hot taste, the dish is topped with spicy mayo and sriracha sauce made from a paste of chilli peppers, distilled vinegar, garlic, sugar, and salt. This is one of the most sought-after sushi dishes by the vegetarians who throng the restaurant.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 Crackling sushi and Sashimi platter
 Pocket pinch: Rs 1,250
 The restaurant celebrates some of the best of Japanese cuisine. And the good news is, the delectable sushis are available during the lunch buffet, apart from al a carte options. Their lunch buffet comprises a sushi bar, along with scores of other delectable world cuisine elements. The crackling sushi at Threesixtythreeº is an innovative platter of handcrafted pieces of crunchy vegetarian sushi, topped with a very unique sauce, placed on a wooden block and served on dry ice. Their sashimi platter and other options from the a la carte menu are also loved by the patrons. Their in-house Japanese speciality chef’s recipes demand the purest of ingredients and a firm adherence to traditional Japanese methods of cooking. The crackling sushi dish is made of avocado, cucumber, tempura red Thai chilli, Philadelphia cream cheese, chilli powder, spicy mayonnaise and sriracha sauce.
 
 
 
  
  
 
 Maki Sushi
 Pocket pinch: Rs 600
 Very true to its Japanese origin, Wasabee, churns out the spicy and rich flavours of oriental cuisine. Their maki sushi is one dish that’s always high on demand. Inside the nori sheet wrapping are delicious layers of short grain sushi rice, wasabi paste, smoked salmon, prawn, avocado and carrot, finished with marine Japanese cooking wine. It is served with Japanese soy sauce, Japanese pickled ginger and wasabi paste.
 
 
  
  
 
 Philadelphia Sushi
 Pocket pinch: Rs 600 
 Salmon and cream cheese are the two main ingredients of this sushi variant. Apart from these, it also has Japanese sticky rice, asparagus, carrot, cucumber, 
 avocado, tofu and scallion in the stuffing, which is rolled in nori sheet. It is served with Japanese soy sauce, wasabi and pickled ginger.
 
 
 
 Veg Strawberry Maki
 Pocket pinch: Rs 600
 In this variant, the sticky rice is mixed with strawberry syrup and the nori is placed on the inside of the sushi and stuffed with assorted veggies. It’s garnished with green, yellow and red bell peppers along with black sesame seeds and served with cube-shaped tamagoyaki or Japanese omelette.
 
 
  
  
 
 Sushi Boat
 Pocket pinch: Rs 2,000
 The Sushi Boat is an assorted platter of sushis that comprises both the maki and nigiri types. While maki sushi comes wrapped in the nori or seaweed sheet, a nigiri is a hand-rolled ball of raw fish or vegetables, placed on a bed of vinegared rice. The sushis in this platter comprises fish such as tuna, shrimps and salmon.
 
 
 
 
 
 Avocado truffle burn cheese sushi
 Pocket pinch: Rs 995
 With avocado, burn cheese, mayonnaise, sushi rice, nori sheet, and truffle oil, this dish surely qualifies as one of the hot selling sushi dishes for the vegetarians. The tangy sushi rice is marinated with Zen’s secret recipe that includes sushi vinegar and sugar, which go well with both their veg and non-veg sushi items. The smell of burn cheese and mayonnaise go very well with the sticky rice.
 
 
  
  
 
 California Maki Sushi
 Pocket pinch: Rs 1,395
 This dish comprises crab stick, prawn, sweet omelette, cucumber, asparagus, tobiko, mayonnaise, sticky rice and nori or seaweed sheet. This is one of the bestselling items at the restaurant. As you take a bite of this dish, it will give a delectable seafood flavour, crispiness of the cucumber and the addition of tobiko and mayonnaise make it yummier. The freshness of seafood like salmon, tuna, prawn and crab stick in Zen’s non-veg sushi platters complement the crispy nori. The sushi rice is dipped in homemade sushi or soy dip along with wasabi sauce followed by pickled ginger that acts as 
 a palate cleanser.
 
 
 
 Assorted Vegetable Tempura Maki
 Pocket pinch: Rs 350
 Fuji has made a great endeavour to bring Japanese cuisine to Kolkata. Their sushis are truly delicious. Maki is a type of sushi roll in which the seaweed wrap or the nori is on the outside of the roll. So, the assorted vegetable tempura maki comes with a ball of sticky rice stuffed with vegetables mixed in vinegar and wrapped in nori sheet. The latter is beautifully garnished with mayonnaise and is served with gari or finely-cut ginger slices dipped in vinegar and sugar syrup. 
 
  
  
 
 Kolkata Maki
 Pocket pinch: Rs 450
 One of Fuji’s bestselling items, the Kolkata maki sushi has prawn tempura with teriyaki sauce in a roll. The restaurant also offers variants like Chennai maki and Goa maki, among others, which are made with fish like salmon and tuna. 
 
 
 
 Prawn Tempura Roll 
 Pocket pinch: Rs 467
 Prawns dipped in Japanese tempura batter are deep fried, along with crab stick, mixed sauce and tobiko or fish roe — that’s the delightful prawn tempura roll. We bet you can’t stop at just one if you try it for the first time.
 
 
  
  
 
 
 Cream Cheese Roll
 Pocket pinch: Rs 436
 This sushi dish is filled with dollops of creamy cheese, asparagus, cucumber, avocado and carrots. The sushi rolls are served with generous amounts of teriyaki sauce on it. It tastes as yummy as it looks.
 
 
 -- With inputs from Shamayita.C@timesgroup.com
 
 
 
 
 
 
