LUCKNOW: Rajiv Chaudhary had to reach Delhi for his friend’s eye surgery but delay in the departure of   (6E306) flight, he was forced to change doctor’s appointment. Like Rajiv, many travellers saw their plans go awry as on Tuesday, over five flights for Delhi and   departed late by over four hours.

 Flights that were late were Vistara (UK-99 8) Delhi-Lucknow (by 4 hours), IndiGO (6 E -447) Lucknow-Mumbai (by 3 hours), Lucknow-Mumbai GO AIR (G8 396) (by 2 hours), Lucknow-Delhi IndiGO (6E
 
 306) (by 2 hours) and Lucknow-Raipur IndiGO (6E 588) (by 40 minutes).
 
 Scores of passengers for Delhi, Mumbai and Raipur were seen waiting at the domestic terminal of   airport. Passengers and those who had come to see them off said they had got no information from either the airlines or the airport authority regarding the delay. They only got to know when they arrived at the terminal, they said. What made waiting tougher was the poor catering service.
 
 Arpit Mishra arrived from   to board the fight for Delhi, he said, “When I confirmed the flight status at the inquiry, I was told about an hour’s delay. But after 20 minutes, an announcement was made that the flight was late by two hours. Such misleading information was the major cause of trouble.”
 
 Similarly, Aashiana resident Shivalika came to board flight for Mumbai. “Today, I had to attend my best friend’s wedding. But now I won’t get there on time.”
 
 “I came to board the flight for Delhi to attend an event. The four-hour wait has affected my health because I could feel the cold draught from the open gates and the air-conditioning wasn’t working well,” said 50-year-old Abbas  , an employee of a private company, who came from Kanpur to board a Delhi flight. Sixty-five-year old Aashiana resident   had fever. “I haven’t received a single message from the airline regarding the delay. Also, there are no arrangements for senior citizens in this cold weather,” she said.
 
 However, officer on special duty to airport director   said, “There is no lack of service or facility at the terminal. However, we are working on improving them,” he said.
 
