As Babu, a four-year-old Labrador, took a lap of the playground at the Crime Branch’s Model Town office, all eyes were on him. And why not, given that he is the newest star of the department. A part of the  ,   won the department its first gold medal in the Tracking Test under the Dog Competition event of the 61st All India Police Duty Meet, which was held in Chennai last month. Leaping and sniffing, he completed his tasks like there was no one around, and his handler Pawan Kumar says that’s the attitude that has got him the gold medal.

  Since it is the first time that a   dog has got a gold medal in tracking, Babu is a mini celebrity, with many visitors coming to meet him, and his handler is getting congratulatory messages. Before this, the Delhi Police Dog Squad had won a silver in 2006 and a bronze medal in 2011 in the Tracking Test.
 
  
  Babu competed in the test with 35 other teams. He shows us his pro moves, as his handler, Pawan Kumar, watches 
 
  
 For this medal, Babu has beaten previous years’ rank-holder, as well as dogs from police departments of other states. Talking about the win, his handler Pawan Kumar says, "Even though he was participating for the first time, he got us the medal. For one year, he paid complete attention to his training. We have practised all the activities in the competition, like sniffing and refusal of food, a thousand times." 
 
  
  QUITE THE POSER: Babu obliges the DT photographer by posing with his gold medal. How cute is he!
 
  
  
 
  "Babu and his handler have performed really well in other activities too in the past one year," says Rajan Bhagat, DCP Crime (CRO), adding, "I think what has worked this time for us is the focussed approach in winning the medal. The training was focussed on winning gold this year."
 
  
  
 
  Pawan adds, "We had a pretty good time at the police meet. Babu is really smart, and he is the type of dog you will love to hang out with."
 
 
  
  HURDLES? NO PROBLEM: Babu demonstrates the hurdles which were a part of the competition in Chennai
 
  
 Pawan tells us, "At the shelter, he's just like any other dog, he roams around and plays with the ball. But at work and when he has to compete, he just puts all his energy into the task and that’s what has worked for us." He adds, "Also, he’s kind of a show-off, and likes attention. When he knows that all eyes are on him, he gives his best."
 
  So, does he bite? "He only does what he’s trained to do. He never bites anyone." Talking about their bonding, says, "Like any other team, he looks after me and I look after him."
 
  
  Babu with his handler Pawan
 
  
 Ever since his win, Babu has been receiving a number of visitors, and there are more planned. Recently, when they were coming out of the Delhi Police Headquarters, a senior police officer came up to him asked, "May I take a picture with our gold medalist, please?" And Babu obliged. Pawan says, "He always obliges and even poses for the camera sometimes!"
 
  
  SNIFF OUT: Babu performs the scent identification task
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
