AHMEDABAD: After an office memo was issued by the Union ministry of social justice and empowerment, the state government issued advisories to its departments to avoid using the word “Dalit” for members of scheduled castes.

 The advisory came after the   high court, on January 15, while disposing of a PIL by Gwalior-based social worker Mohanlal Mahor, directed the central and state governments to refrain from using the word “Dalit” in correspondence, as it is not used in the Constitution.
 
 The high court had made it clear with “no manner of doubt” that government functionaries are not to use the word “Dalit”.
 
  social justice minister Ishwar Parmar said the Union government had issued instructions a week ago to all state governments, to refrain from using the word “Dalit” in official communication. “There is no harm in using the word scheduled caste instead of  ,” Parmar said. 
 
 Parmar added that adjectives like suppressed, oppressed and deprived are used for people from scheduled castes and rather than these, it would be good to use the words “scheduled castes” for the entire community.
 
 Kamal Dayani, secretary of the Gujarat social justice and empowerment department, confirmed that they wrote to all departments to avoid using the word “Dalit” in government correspondence.
 
 Dalit leaders are divided on the issue. While Jignesh  , the independent Dalit MLA from Vadgam, called this “the government’s foolish attempt to appease or butter-up Dalits”, another Dalit activist, Martin Macwan, said this was merely a technical issue to avoid confusion in government correspondence. 
 
 Mevani said while the Una flogging victims are denied justice, the changing a word will not make Dalits forget the atrocity.
 
 He told TOI, “Dalit is our political identity. If somebody calls me a scheduled caste (SC), I feel like I’m standing in a queue to get benefit from some government scheme. Dalits gives us a sense of assertion. I prefer to use Dalit rather than scheduled caste (SC) or any other terminology.”
 
 Macwan meanwhile said there should not be a hue and cry over changing the word “Dalit” to scheduled caste.
 
 “The Constitution uses scheduled castes while the word “Dalit” has originated from the social movement. The government may have preferred to change the use of “Dalit” to avoid confusion in correspondence. It is merely a technical procedure,” added Macwan.
 
 
