NAGPUR: Jayant-Manjiri and choir regaled audience with   of the legendary music director A R   with musical ‘On a different note’ at Sai Sabhagruha, on Saturday.

 It was a unique concept as the group presented multi-lingual version of the songs. Singer Yogendra Ranade popularly known as voice of Mohammad Rafi from the city was present to attend the show. The event aimed to provide an opportunity to the budding artistes to showcase their talent.
 
 Jayant Powale and Manjiri Sathe Powale started off with ‘Roja’ the song which bagged Rahman his debut award for his music direction. The couple presented the song in Hindi as well as Telugu language which came as a surprize for the connoisseurs.
 
 To experiment with the theme of the event, M Powale rendered the song ‘Kahey ched ched mohe’ from the hit movie ‘Devdas’ composed by Ismail Darbar. The soulful rendition touched the heart of the audience.
 
 Getting back to Rahman’s compositions were the songs ‘Kabhi neem neem’, ‘Ori chori’, ‘O humdum’, ‘Jiya jaley’, ‘Haye rama’, ‘Aye hairathe ashiqui’, along with few Hindi and Telgu fusions on ‘Tuhi re’ and ‘Kehna hi kya’ rendered by the artistes.
 
 The choir presented the song ‘Mere paas hai tu’ from the movie ‘Taal’ leaving a soothing impression on the audience. Followed by Rahman’s one of the most famous peppy compositions was ‘Oo la la la’ from movie ‘Sapnay’ which was well received. Adding more to their versatality with a Sufi song ‘Kun faya kun’ from movie ‘Rockstar’ was presented by the group and Powale couple.
 
 Apart from Powale couple, the singers were Poornima Dhokne, Mrunali Dixit, Aditi Mastey, Bhushan Zade, Shilpa Deshmukh, Harshal Tirpudhe, Akansha Choudhari.
 
 Stage artistes were accompanied by Sandip Gurmale on harmonium, Nishikant Deshmukh on Violin, Pankaj Yadav on Tabla and Dholak, Akshay Harle on Octopad, Ajit and Sumit Bhalerao on Keyboard, Gaurav Tanksale on Guitar, Robin William on bass guitar and Nakul Pandhre on Minor.
 
  entertained the audience with her skillful anchoring.
 
 
