PUNE: A 32-year-old woman suffered severe injuries on her right thigh after an unidentified motorcyclist stabbed her with a sharp object on the service road of   bypass near Ravet around 7pm on March 23.
 
 The incident occurred when the woman, who works with a private company in Balewadi, was returning to her home in   on her scooter. “The suspect even tried to assault her on the neck, but the woman succeeded in dodging the blow,” police said. 
 
 Despite bleeding, the woman chased the suspect for some distance, but to no avail. Later, she got herself admitted in a hospital. After preliminary treatment, the woman went to the Dehu Road police station and lodged a complaint against the suspect. The case has been transferred to the Hinjewadi police for further investigation.
 
 The woman, who did not wish to be named, told TOI that she was riding on the service road to avoid huge traffic on the Katraj-Dehu Road bypass. “I had kept my laptop bag on the boot of the scooter. When I reached near a petrol pump near Ravet, a motorcyclist riding on the wrong side of the road passed by me. I became cautious as there were hardly any vehicles on the road,” she said.
 
 After riding for some distance, the suspect took a U-turn and blocked the woman’s way. “Before I could realize what was happening, he started stabbing me with a sharp object on my right thigh. He stabbed me at least four times,” the woman said, adding that the also tried to assault her on the neck. “But, I managed to dodge it and started raising an alarm, due to which the man sped away towards Wakad,” she said.
 
 Reason behind attack not known
 
 The woman said she did not know why the suspect attacked her. “He did not even try to snatch my purse or my laptop bag,” she said, adding that the suspect had his face covered with a cloth and was driving a black motorcycle. “I also noticed that the man was wearing a green shirt. I could see only four digits of the registration number of his motorcycle, which I have given to the police,” the woman said.
 
 A Hinjewadi police officer said, “We are checking the   cameras around the spot to trace the suspect.”
 
 
