CHANDIGARH: The district consumer disputes redressel forum has directed real estate company Emaar MGF Land Limited to pay Rs 1.50 lakh as compensation and refund Rs 43.13 lakh for failing to give  .

 
 Biresh Singhal, a Mohali resident, in his complaint stated that he had applied for a residential plot in the project under the name ‘Augusta Greens, Mohali Hills’ situated at Sector 109,  , on July 22, 2012, by paying booking amount of Rs 5 lakh.
 
 The total price of the said plot was Rs 45.34 lakh.
 
 Singhal added that he was allotted plot No.226 measuring 300 sq. yards vide provisional allotment letter dated September 25, 2012. A plot buyer’s agreement was executed between the parties on October 15, 2012, at Chandigarh. As per the agreement, the realtors were to deliver possession of the said plot within a period of 12 months from the date of execution of the agreement.
 
 It was added that the realtor sent a letter of intimation of possession on December 24, 2014, in which it was stated that the possession of the said plot would be handed over within 60 days and the company further demanded of Rs 8.03 lakh and the area of the plot was arbitrarily increased to 312 sq. yds. from the earlier allotted area. Thereafter, the complainant said he wrote several emails to the firm . However, they did not give any satisfactory reply to the queries raised by the complainant.
 
 In their reply the company had stated, “It is well settled principle of law that in cases of   and  , time is never regarded as the essence of the contract. It was further stated that possession of the said plot was offered to the complainant on December 24, 2014, but he neither paid the due amount nor took physical possession of the said plot.”
 
 After hearing both sides, the forum stated, “It was clearly mentioned in clause 8 of the agreement that possession of the unit will be delivered within a maximum period of 18 months from the date of execution of the agreement, subject to force majeure circumstances or reason beyond the control of the realtors. In the instant case, the realtors did not raise any force majeure circumstances, if any, encountered by them.”
 
 The company was directed to pay compensation and refund money along with interest at 10% per annum from the date of deposit. They were also asked to pay Rs 33,000 as litigation cost.
 
 
