KOLHAPUR: The crime branch on Monday arrested six members of a gang for allegedly robbing a truck carrying steel bars in Rendal village on Rendal-Boregaon road on January 17. Police have recovered valuables worth Rs 18 lakh, including steel bars and a truck that was used in the crime. 

 The arrested suspects have been identified as Santosh alias Sunny Bagade (27) and Kiran alias   (24), both residents of   in Ichalkaranji),   (21), resident of Azad Nagar at Kabnoor in Hatkanangale taluka, and Dipak Sawant (23), Tardal, also in Hatkanangle, Abhijeet Sankpal (32) of Tarabai park and Sajid alias Tipu Naik of   in Kagal. 
 
 Superintendent of police Sanjay Mohite said, "The suspects have admitted to committing the crime. We have recovered valuables that they had stolen and had kept hidden at a place in Kagal five star MIDC area. Four of their accomplices are at large and we are searching for them."
 
 "Four of the arrested suspects are criminals on police record and we are gathering information about their criminal record from various police stations in the district," police said.
 
 Police said the complainant, identified as   of Kagwad in Athani taluka of Karnataka, runs a business of selling steel bars. On January 17, when he was travelling from Kolhapur to Kagwad with 22 ton steel bars in a truck which was driven by Bajarang Aiwale, the suspects riding on motorcycles and a car followed them. They obstructed the way of the truck and compelled the driver to stop it. 
 
 The robbers asked both Jadhav and Aiwale to get down from the truck and manhandled them. The duo was later put in the car and their faces were covered with a cloth. After around four hours the suspects dropped them at Tawandi ghat area, around 50km away from Rendal on Maharashtra-Karnataka border. Jadhav also found the truck on the side of the road where he was dropped but it was empty. Jadhav later lodged a complaint at Hupari police station.
 
 "Jadhav had loaded the steel bars from an industrial unit in Kolhapur and the suspects were keeping watch on him. They followed the truck after Jadhav left for Karnataka and robbed the truck. We are investigating to find out if the suspects had looted anyone else in similar style," Mohite said. 
 
 
