In the aftermath of his stint as the chief of Central Board of Film Certification, which ended in August last year, filmmaker   is staying in the news with films revolving around curious topics.

  After presenting the surprisingly risqué  , the filmmaker recently made headlines with his next directorial,   — it has been reported in the last few days that it is based on the life of disgraced liquor baron  , who will be played by Govinda in the film. However, Nihalani clears the air, “Govinda has a double role in Rangeela Raja, one of which is inspired by Vijay Mallya’s lifestyle, the way he conducted himself as a Parliamentarian, a businessman, and at cricket matches. His style really appealed to me. So, I have taken inspiration from his lifestyle for my film, but it is not his biopic and has nothing to do with his life story.”
 
  
  
 He is, however, not averse to making another film ‘inspired’ by Mallya. “If this one works, I will show Govinda’s character being embroiled in a scam in Part 2 and will shoot it in London (where Mallya currently resides),” the filmmaker adds.
 
  At his Khar office, Nihalani is soon joined by his leading man, with whom he has made three films —   (1986), ' ' (1992) and 'Aankhen' (1993). He notes that this is their first interview together in 32 years. The duo has completed two months of shooting for their film and will resume after the actor is back from a family vacation in London.
 
  Meanwhile, Govinda insists that he wasn’t aware of his look’s origin till he kicked off the film. “When I wore the wig, moustache and the clothes, people on the sets started pointing out the resemblance with Vijay Mallya. That’s when I got to know because I never ask for the script while working with Pahlaj ji. People are saying that I look like a rockstar in the avatar. It’s interesting to have your name associated with Vijay Mallya, someone who has been so flamboyant,” he adds.
 
  Next up on the 54-year-old actor’s agenda is a swift ascend on the style charts with his newest screen turn. “I think it’s a great start for me as a fashion icon which has never happened before. It’s a first for me and I am enjoying this newfound attention,” he admits.
 
  Incidentally, Govinda’s big Bollywood break had come almost serendipitously, with Nihalani, when the filmmaker’s original 'Ilzaam' hero Mithun Chakraborty walked out of the film. “In those days, strugglers would sit in the producers’ office for hours together, and I was the first one to start making my own videos to show it to them. Rikku bhaiya (Rikku Rakesh Nath, manager), who was yet to start working for Madhuri Dixit but was managing   ji, saw my video and recommended me to Pahlaj ji. The rest is history. But I had later found out that Mithun da couldn’t do the film because of date problems,” Govinda informs.
 
  Nihalani, who recalls that Govinda had reminded him of actor-dancer Gopi Krishna (of 'Jhanak Jhanak Payal Baaje' fame) when they first met, adds, “I was upset with Mithun — he was always in my house during his struggling days but during 'Ilzaam' (earlier titled Ram Puri), he demanded that I make it a solo hero film when Shatru ji (Shatrughan Sinha) was also a part of it. When Rikku brought me Govinda’s tape, I was so impressed, I signed him immediately and within four days, did the mahurat,” Nihalani says, adding that he wanted to show Mithun that if he won’t do the film, someone else would. “In fact, keeping Govinda’s personality in mind, I altered the script and changed the title to 'Ilzaam'.”
 
 Govinda and Nihalani’s newest collaboration also marks the actor’s return to solo hero territory (not taking last year’s self-produced 'Aa Gaya Hero' into consideration on account of its blink-and-you-miss appearance at the box-office). “After leaving politics, I did David Dhawan’s 'Partner' with Salman (Khan) and Priyadarshan’s 'Bhagam Bhag' (ensemble cast also featuring  ), but in this one I am the main hero. I am not signing many films even though I get offers every day. I need to work more. I want to plan my career now, which I have never done before,” the actor asserts.
 
  Does that mean no more collaborations with Salman and Dhawan? “When I decide on a film, I have to believe in it and the people I am working with. I’d love to work with everyone and there is no problem from my side, but I should get what I deserve. It shouldn’t be like, I haven’t worked with Salman and David in a long time so let’s do a film with them,” Govinda explains.
 
  Meanwhile, his son, Yashvardhan Ahuja, is gearing up for his own Bollywood innings. “The best thing that happened for him was a chance to learn different aspects of filmmaking in London, following which Sajid’s office (filmmaker  ) proved to be the perfect learning experience. It was even close to our house. Sajid also gave him a cabin in the office. Yash wants to become an actor and he is working hard towards it. Ganesh (Acharya, choreographer) sent me a video of him dancing a few days ago and I was totally floored by it. Lag raha tha Govinda ki tarah,” the proud dad says.
  
  
 
 
