NAGPUR: As part of a study to improve facilities for   donation in government hospitals, an official of Mohan Foundation, Mumbai, on Tuesday visited Government Medical College and Hospital (GMCH) as well as Super Specialty Hospital to review the infrastructure. 

 The study has been requested by Directorate of Medical Education and Research (DMER), and the funds required for the study have been pledged by Tata Trust.
 
 While project manager Amit Shenoy declined to comment on his visit, honorary director and  , Dr Ravi   confirmed the purpose of visit. Calling it a ‘noble objective’, he said that the IGMC, GMCs in Gondia, Chandrapur, Yavatmal and Dhule will be also inspected for their facilities.
 
 “In order to allow organ donation, a hospital requires the backing of various tests to affirm whether the organs are optimal for transplantation. In a case that came to me recently, I found that the transplant coordinator in a certain hospital had been transferred. The government is responsible for the deficiencies in such hospitals,” he said. 
 
 Once the study is completed, recommendations will be conveyed to the DMER and health minister. Wankhede said that he had written to the deans of the selected hospitals asking them to nominate a doctor to coordinate and support the visit by members of Mohan Foundation.
 
 DMER chief Dr Pravin Shingare said, “We have asked them to study the situation in government hospitals, and recommend changes to be made. We are serious about organ donations and are looking to increase instances of brain-dead organ retrieval. We will decide a target for organ donations based on the recommendations provided to us,” he said, adding that June 15 is the deadline for the study which is being conducted by Mohan foundation and Tata Trust all over Maharashtra.
 
 GMCH dean Dr Abhimanyu Niswade said that several relatives of brain-dead patients are yet not willing to allow donation of organs, so counselling in their regard is necessary. “An infrastructure built to look after this will certainly help. Moreover, I’d suggest that the hospital should waive fees of brain-dead patients whose organs are allowed to be donated,” he said.
 
 
