NEW DELHI: A   has blamed “lack of coordination” among different agencies responsible for planning and execution of   2021 for the   in the national capital. It has also blamed piecemeal planning and   making by successive governments for the present chaos.

 Coming down heavily on how framing of the master plan has been reduced to a “mere exercise on paper” without paying heed to its implementability on ground, the parliamentary standing committee on housing and urban affairs ministry has recommended that the next Master Plan should be a realistic and comprehensive document accommodating the views of people, creating adequate infrastructural facilities. 
 
 With regard to the ongoing  , the panel has observed that despite having three Master Plans for 1981, 2001 and 2021, a comprehensive vision is still lacking. “They are of the opinion that the ongoing sealing drive is due to lack of coordination among different agencies, which are primarily responsible for planning and execution of Delhi’s Master Plan 2021,” the panel said in the report presented in Parliament on Friday.
 
 The committee said there has been an imbalance between planning and implementation since the first Master Plan. 
 
 The panel has also pulled up the DDA for inordinate delay in finalisation of Land Pooling Policy (LPP) even five year after it was notified. The committee also found that nothing has moved in the past one year even after Delhi government notified 89 villages as urban area and the issue of notifying 95 villages is under its consideration.
 
 In its report, the parliamentary panel has also taken up the case of construction of “Third Road” for linking sub-city of Dwarka with West Delhi. Currently two roads - Palam Road and Pushpanjali Road - are hardly able to withstand the huge vehicular demand of two lakh houses that have come up in that area, the report said.
 
 The DDA informed the panel that the only road under consideration was urban extension road (UER-II) joining Dwarka with Najafgarh which is being implemented by NHAI and there is no other proposal from DDA. 
 
 The panel has recommended the ministry to take up the issue of building the Third Road with highways ministry to cater to the impending demand of large number of houses in Dwarka sub-city. 
 
 
