COIMBATORE: Coimbatore has been ranked eighth among the first batch of 20 smart cities in implementing and completing projects under the Smart City Mission in the last three years. It is the only city from   in the top 10 while Chennai has been ranked 17 as per the ministry of housing and urban affairs. While Surat tops the list, Pune, Vishakhapatnam, Udaipur, Bhuvaneshwar, Ahmedabad and   rank ahead of Coimbatore.

 When contacted, an official in the ministry said this ranking was based on expenditure, project implementation and performance. Since   has successfully implemented three projects in the last three years and is in the process of implementing five more this year, it has been placed in the top 10, said an official. A similar assessment will be held for cities chosen in the second batch as well, revealed sources. “Since the second batch of smart cities was announced much later and none of them have implemented any project, they were not included in this list,” the official said.
 
 City corporation commissioner K Vijayakarthikeyan said, “When we were selected based on our proposal, we were ranked 12 in 2015. But now, we have moved up the ranking. If we get sanctions from the state government faster, we can be number one in no time,” he said. He added that the lake development projects will be implemented this year and various other projects are at the implementation stage.
 
 Having been slow in comparison to other cities in the country, the city corporation has managed to successfully implement the air quality monitoring systems at 30 locations and has launched the application for smart city. The corporation has also removed encroachments from the lakes that come under the non-motorised corridor space for a distance of 33km. Among the smart cities in the state, Coimbatore has spent the highest of Rs7.27 crore while   spent the least - a meagre Rs 5 lakh. The Chennai Corporation had spent Rs 3.82 crore much lesser than Coimbatore.
 
 Smart city project consultants said that totally 15 projects had been sanctioned for Coimbatore Corporation under the Smart City Mission for an estimated cost of Rs 1,570 crore.
 
 “We are going to implement various innovative projects such as cycle sharing system in February, on road parking system using mobile application and develop various green spaces in the city,” said an official. The official added that they were on the right track with various projects shaping up well. “Most of the consultants and experts are those who have implemented national level projects. We also have expertise in solid waste management from NGOs based out of other countries such as  ,” said an official.
 
 The project implementation has received much flak from activists in the city who said that the entire project which was supposed to be transparent is being implemented behind closed doors. “The expenditure and project progress are unavailable for public,” said a city-based activist.
 
 
