JAIPUR: Passengers faced tough times as bus services remained affected due to farmers’ march to Jaipur seeking total farm loan waiver. Passengers travelling from Sriganganagar,  , Anupgarh and Sardarshahar towards Jaipur on Thursday by   (RSRTC) buses were sent back to the respective districts from where they were originated even before they had reached Sikar.

 Buses from Jaipur reached Sikar by taking different routes via Datarangarh, Renwal and Sambhar. “The decision of sending buses back to Sriganganagar, Bikaner, Anupgarh and Sardarshahar was taken keeping in mind safety and security of passengers and also buses,” said Sudhir Bhati, executive manager (public relations) RSRTC.
 
 “The protesters were prevented from arriving in the state capital, and farmers decided to sit in protest wherever they were stopped, claimed the   leaders. Large gathering of farmers were witnessed at various places on the way as the police have stopped the private buses carrying the protesters as well as Roadway buses resulting in traffic jams on the Sikar-Jaipur National Highway.
 
 The farmers are demanding that the government accede to promises made in writing on September 13 last year. They were also seeking release of the farmer leaders arrested in the past three days, ahead of the gathering in Jaipur. Buses coming from the Shekhawati area were stopped at Ramu Ka Was. 
 
 About 3,000 farmers are still sitting on a dharna at Ramu Ka Was in Sikar while all the others have been detained and sent back, claimed police. NRK Reddy, additional director general of police (Law and Order) said, “The total number of arrests so far in the last three days is 256 with about 60 odd arrests on Thursday.”
 
 He said, most of the farmers on way to Jaipur were detained by police and sent back to their respective places. “About 1,000 farmers coming from Bikaner were stopped at Bijnor while about 1,500 farmers were stopped at Khatiwas. Another nearly 2,500 farmers were detained and sent back to their places from Ringus,” he said.
 
 Reddy said about 3,000 farmers are still sitting on a dharna at Ramu Ka Was in Sikar district. The district administration has initiated talks with these farmers. However, so far they are undecided, he said. 
 
 Jaipur police commissioner Sanjay Agarwal, meanwhile, said that the permission for the agitating farmers was denied on two grounds. Firstly, the farmers’ association did not give details related to time, place and number of protesters and secondly, because there are set of guidelines laid down by the court.
 
 “They did not tell us how many people will arrive in the city, and how long do they plan to stay here. We could not hassle common people and cause them inconvenience,” he said. Jaipur police said that some protesters were detained at the outskirts of the city and then let off. “We dispersed the protesters so that no inconvenience is caused to the general public,” said an official.
 
 
