LUDHIANA: Another scuffle rocked Ludhiana Central Jail after four inmates attacked a jail guard and poured hot dal on him when he tried to stop their fight on Thursday evening.

 The official was taken to the jail hospital where he was given first aid.
 
 It is alleged that four jail inmates were in cell number 5. They started fighting over some issue.
 
 When a guard intervened to stop them, the inmates abused him. Then, they poured hot dal on him.
 
 The jail authority lodged a police complaint after which the Division number 7 police registered a case against Munish Rai, Sahil, Gurinder and Amit.
 
 Jail superintendent   said four undertrials were lodged in cell number 5. They started fighting and attacked each other following some issue.
 
 In the meantime, the guard, who was deployed on duty intervened and tried to stop them. This is when the inmates poured dal on him.
 
 Boparai said the police lodged an FIR against all four inmates.
 
 Importantly, the jail had seen several such clashes involving inmates in the past.
 
 On March 20, a clash between jail inmates over the issue of using washroom, took place. In this fight, it was reported that infamous gangster Sukhpreet Singh alias Sukha Barewalia had sustained minor injury.
 
  was nabbed at a check post on   road. That is not all. On February 21, two groups of inmates attacked each other with sharp-edged weapons inside the jail premises.
 
 In this scuffle, three jail inmates — Manjit Singh, Lovpreet and Ravi Kumar — were injured.
 
 On December 18, 2017, undertrial   was allegedly thrashed with sharp-edged weapons over a petty issue. Inmates Gurjinder Singh, Jasvir Singh, Rajiv Kumar, Naveen and Navjot Singh were booked in this matter.
 
 An incident occured on October 25, 2017 when two jail inmates indulged in a scuffle following which one inmate, identified as Babu, suffered injury on his left ear. He even got 15 stitches. The incident occurred in   barrack of Central Jail, Ludhiana.
 
 On September 12, 2017, medical officer of central jail Dr Swarandeep Singh was attacked by a group of jail inmates with sharp-edged weapons inside the premises. He suffered cuts on his forehead, hands and stomach.
 
 Dr Sawarndeep Singh, who joined around three months ago, alleged that at 12.45pm when he was inside the jail hospital, a group of armed inmates came and attacked him.
 
 He said all those present in the room, including his subordinates, did not help him. When he raised the alarm, jail officials came and rescued him. He was taken to civil hospital, from where he was discharged after treatment.
 
