PATNA: An all-party meeting on Saturday unanimously decided to prepare and submit a memorandum on behalf of Bihar to the   ahead of its recommendations on the share of states in the divisible pool of central taxes. 

 The meeting was also attended by representatives of professional and academic organisations of the state.
 
 The meeting, convened by Asian Development Research Institute (ADRI) on the Vidhan Sabha premises, also discussed the outlines of the proposed memorandum. Certain speakers were of the view that ADRI should convene more such meetings to fine-tune the contents of the memorandum so that a poor state like Bihar got maximum benefits from the Finance Commission’s recommendations.
 
 The meeting, presided over by assembly Speaker Vijay Kumar Choudhary, also pleaded that the 15th Finance Commission should retain the 2011 census figures in its terms of reference while determining the share of states in the central taxes. 
 
 Choudhary congratulated ADRI member-secretary Shaibal Gupta for hosting the event and said he always believed such an initiative could bring the state’s interests to the fore.
 
 State energy minister Bijendra Prasad Yadav said Bihar suffered historically due to bifurcation and natural disasters and the Centre should consider according special category status to it.
 
 Ruling JD(U) national general secretary and MP R C P Singh also pitched for special category status to Bihar in view of its historical disadvantages.
 
 RJD MLA and former state finance minister Abdul Bari Siddiqui pleaded for a more conscious approach while demanding special allocations and grants for human development indicators. Another RJD senior, Shivanand Tiwari, said there was a need to align allocation of grants with population and demographic compulsions.
 
 Congress MLA Shakeel Ahmad Khan said the memorandum should specially focus on education and healthcare. He said a large population of the state still lagged behind others in different human development Indicators and this could be fixed only with a comprehensive approach towards social sectors.
 
 CPM’s state secretary Awadhesh Singh said a ‘grant’ should rather be called an ‘allocation’.
 
 
