NAGPUR: As   virus infection takes a toll in Kerala, people from the state living in Nagpur are keeping track of the developments back home.

 The fact that the virus has infected people in only two districts of Kozhikode and Malappuram, those hailing from other districts are not having much concerns. “I belong to the Alleppey district where there is no such fear,” says SS Nair, president of Nair Service Society in the city. “In fact, byelections are going on in my district and this virus fear has not had any impact on poll-related activities,” he says.
 
 “The virus has spread in only two districts and it is all peaceful and safe elsewhere in the state,” says Radhkrishnan, member of Hindu Mitra Mandal, a community organization in the city. “People returning from the state have not reported any cause for fear,” he says.
 
 Manoj PV, president of Keraleeya Samajam, returned from Kerala last week when the outbreak had just been reported. “My native place is very close to Malappuram district which has been effected by Nipah virus. But things are peaceful and there is no panic among the people,” he says.
 
 “I am not very worried about my family back there as the state medical department is working very efficiently and we hope that the virus will be contained soon,” he adds.
 
 Ajit Kumar, retired professor of social work from Matru Sewa Sangh, who is currently on a visit to Kerala, says that it is the northern part of the state which has been affected. “As the virus has spread in north, its impact is not being felt in south Kerala. People are not even discussing it here and there is also not much awareness about the disease,” he says.
 
 But movement of people from one district to another could spread the virus, fears  , a caterer who is scheduled to visit his native state after his daughter’s Std XII board results. “It is already raining for some time in the state now due to which people are suffering from cough, fever and cold. It is difficult to know if the symptoms are of Nipah virus or ordinary influenza,” says Kurup, adding that unless the situation clears, he will not visit the state.
 
 This being vacation time, tours to Kerala are booked back-to-back, says informs  , local representative of makemytrip.com. “So far, we are not receiving any requests for cancellations, though people are anxious and are inquiring about the prevailing conditions there,” she says.
 
 “Trips to Kerala are usually for a minimum of six nights and seven days and are booked months before travel dates,” she adds.
 
 
