KOLKATA: The   will not allow anyone to carry “offensive weapons” during the   celebrations on Saturday.

 A December 20 notification that banned public display of weapons in the city in 2018 has come into effect from January 2. The notification prohibits “any person from carrying swords, spears, bludgeons, or otherwise offensive weapons in any public place... for the preservation of the public and public safety”. It specifies certain exemptions, but religious rallies are not among them.
 
 The display of offensive weapons can lead police to register FIRs under various non-bailable   sections, like 144 (joining unlawful assembly armed with deadly weapon), 148 (rioting, armed with deadly weapon), 149 (every member of unlawful assembly guilty of offence) and 153A (promoting enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, race) and Section 25 (1A) of the Arms Act. The notification also allows cops to take pre-emptive action like cancellation of permission to take out a rally.
 
 In 2017, six people were arrested and three FIRs had been registered at Posta, Entally and   police stations under sections pertaining to rioting armed with deadly weapon, unlawful assembly and promoting enmity between different groups.
 
 Since April 2017, the   government has been embroiled in a bitter war of words with pro-Hindutva groups over its “selective targeting” of rallies that involve display of weapons.
 
 According to police, the Arms Act defines “arms” as articles of any description designed or adapted as weapons for offence or defence, and includes firearms, sharpedged and other deadly weapons (swords, shovels, choppers and spears) and machinery for manufacturing arms. This interpretation could also extend to tridents and other weapons.
 
 
 The cops across the state have been asked to open communication channels at all informal levels and keep the senior community members in confidence. Social media monitoring is one aspect where the state is seeking cooperation so that strict action can be taken immediately. All sensitive zones will see special monitoring and senior officers have been asked to keep the headquarters informed.
 
 
 Though the administration and the police remained tight-lipped on the arms being seized the borders with Jharkhand have been sealed. The administration has asked for the highest level of coordination between local cops and the additional   police personnel being sent to the trouble-torn area.
 
