TRICHY: For the state topper in the civil service examination 2018 V Keerthi Vasan, it was his alma mater National Institute of Technology, Trichy that influenced his decision to opt for civil services after his parents who always wanted him to keep an option open for civil services.

 Vasan was so clear about his decision during the third year of his B-Tech civil engineering that he didn’t opt for anything else but civil service.
 
 Wishes are pouring in from all quarters as this Dharmapuri boy who not only cleared the exams in his first attempt but also emerged state topper by securing an all India rank 29. “Though I expected that I would clear the exam but didn’t expect state first,” said Vasan adding that there is a lot of uncertainty associated with civil services.
 
 “I have always wanted to join Indian Institute of Technology, Madras (IIT-M) from my schools days but I was offered other IIT’s during counselling. But I chose National institute of Technology ( ) Trichy which is better than the newly started IIT’s in the country,” said Keerthi Vasan.
 
 But when destiny offered him another opportunity to do direct PhD in IIT-Madras during his college days, he refused as he was preparing for civil services.
 
 “Among the top 10 students in the civil engineering department, I had the option to go to IIT Madras for direct PhD by ways of the MoU   had with IIT Madras. It was the time when I was selected as the chairperson of NIT-Trichy’s technical festival ‘Pragyaan’. But I chose the latter and stayed back as I was clear about my choice,” he said while suggesting IAS aspirants to develop clarity of thoughts which would certainly help in preparatory stage.
 
 “By heading ‘Pragyaan’, I got the opportunity to interact with people in various administrative posts which helped me in the interview stage. Incidentally, the college celebrated its golden jubilee in 2014 and the then president of India, Pranab Mukharjee was the chief guest. Coming from a civil engineering department, I was designing helipad in the institute and had the opportunity to interact with IAS and IPS officer who came to oversee the preparatory arrangements,” said Vasan.
 
 From then on, he stopped applying for higher studies and also didn’t turn up for campus interviews. For him the risk factor was minimal as he had plans for entrepreneurship, he said.
 
 “I wanted to start my own construction firm when I joined NIT Trichy. But the risk factor was further low in my case as my parents are small scale industrialists in Dharmapuri producing silk sarees,” he said
 
 After coming into NIT-Trichy, he got a broader outlook and got an opportunity to interact with students from different states and also a better understanding about the society. “Among various means, I found civil services as the better option to contribute not only to the society in a better way but also develop ourselves in the professional and personal capacity,” he said.
 
 While Vasan has given   as his cadre preference for service, Maharashtra and Rajasthan are his other options. However, he said that he would set his goals based on the needs of the people of the state that he would be allotted.
 
 His parents’ happiness after knowing the results was the best compliment that he has received so far, said Vasan adding that his parents were in Germany on an industrial visit when the results had come and he was in New Delhi at that time.
 
 
