SALEM: City-based archaeologists have discovered two stone inscriptions belonging to the period of   at Rayappanur village in Villupuram district. “One of them was dated 1518 and the other 1521,” said archaeologist ‘Aragalur’  .

 The stone inscriptions were found at a Siva temple and an Angalamman temple in the village. The stone inscription dated 1521 revealed that the land to build both the temples were donated by Krishnadevarayar, who was fond of both Saivam and Vainavam, which were the famous communities those days.
 
 It also revealed that Krishnadevarayar had set up a community called Kangeyamudaiyar community in   (now renamed as Rayappanur) and nominated Samalu Madhu Eagamun Iyyan Kangeyan as the ruler of   region, after constructing a small fort in the village in the 16th century.
 
 The stone inscription dated 1518 also has mention about donating land to a temple in Rayappanur. The land was donated to   temple.
 
 Pon Venkatesan said his team could not retrieve more information from this stone inscription as a portion of it was partially damaged. “The stone is also half buried in the ground. We will thoroughly inspect it after digging it up,” he said.
 
 The archaeologists urged the state government to take steps to preserve the stone inscriptions.
 
 
 
 
 Murals dating back over 400 years to the Naicker period have been found in a Shiva temple near Musiri in Trichy district. The paintings depict a female deity, Jyestha Devi, with gatekeepers on either side throw light on the ancient form of deity worship.
 
 A research scholar who has been involved in fine arts in Tamil stumbled upon the paintings which have been remaining neglected over the years. An archaeology enthusiast and epigraphist, Babu says that the paintings are similar to those found in Thanjavur palace. “These mural paintings are identical to the painting at Thanjavur palace which dates back to the Naicker era in Thanjavur,” says Babu. The Shiva temple is one among the four in the surrounding that date back to 16th century.
 
 
