In the latest episode of  , everybody is stunned with Sandy's decision to nominate Farah in the last episode. Surbhi says that she cannot trust him anymore. Gang leader   gets angry at her team for having zero unity, especially Kriti for her decision to nominate Shruti. Kriti faces the ire from the group for the same. As she tries clearing the air, Kriti is thrown out by her team tent which makes her sad.

 
 She goes and talks to Prince, the other gang members about the matter. The next day, the contestants are called to the task location. Kriti declares that she felt cornered and wants to quit the show. Hearing this, Prince and Neha get angry and question her motive behind coming to Prince's tent early in the morning as the contestants are not allowed to approach the gang leader's tent and accuse her of wanting to switch teams. Neha gets miffed and says she no longer wants Kriti in her team. Rannvijay takes the final call and decides to give Kriti another chance.
 
 
 It was time for the task. The best and worst from every group were paired up to compete in the task, where contestants had to come in from opposite sides and travel through wires to build a tower in the middle, taking help from their gang leaders.
 
 Geetika and Surbhi are chosen to participate from Neha and Raftaar's team while Kashish and Shruti are chosen by Prince and Nikhil.
 
 Geetika and Surbhi are the first ones to go. They try the task three times but fail and keep fighting. On the other hand, Kashish and Shruti perform the task better than them but just as Shruti gets out, the tower also falls down. They try again and successfully complete the task. Shruti is applauded by the judges for her co-ordination and skillful tactic.
 
 Nishkarsh and Pavneet are the next ones to compete in the task. They face a lot of difficulty in opening up the bag and waste time but are able to get ahead as they built the time in lesser time, as compared to Shruti and Kashish. 
 Nishkarsh moves around as he tries to secure all the flags. The last pair to compete are Mini and Mehek. Even though they face a lot of penalties in the task, they manage to build the tower and secure the maximum points in the task, thereby winning the immunity from the next elimination.
 
