KOLKATA: The Class X results left the city CBSE schools elated — not only because of the marks scored by their students, but also due to the fact that they could return to the compulsory board exam platform. Appearing in Class X board exams had been made optional since 2011. Most city schools said they were thrilled with the results, which are better than those in 2010. Board exams are a better way to evaluate students, they felt.

 
 Out of the total 790 candidates from South Point High School, 144 scored above 95%. The number of students scoring above 90% is 369, while 610 secured above 80%. At   Ruby Park, 190 students scored above 90% and 156 got more than 80%. Both schools said the results were better than their last compulsory board exam results held in 2010.
 
 
  
 
 At  , 75 students scored above 90%. Principal   felt the results were good. “We are happy with our students’ performance. It was important for them to get back into the groove since the compulsory board exams made a comeback this year. It was a challenge for the teachers as well. But the results show that everything is fine and perhaps board exams are a better way to evaluate students,” she said.
 
 Birla High School director Mukta Nain voiced a similar opinion. “I have always been in favour of competition and that surprise element, which only a board exam can provide. It also motivates students and prepares them better for tougher tests ahead. The results prove that,” Nain said.
 
 At Birla High School, 46% of the students scored above 90%. Loveleen Saigal, principal of Birla High Scool, said, “The results have been as good as they had been seven years ago. There were some apprehensions, but the results are pretty good.”
 
 Parents, too, were happy with the board exams making a return this year. The mother of topper Sourit Sarkar, Mallika, felt compulsory exams offered a correct evaluation. “Real merit is reflected better in a board exams. My son wouldn’t have been a topper had he not appeared in the board exam. This will not only boost his confidence but also give him a better idea about where he stands,” she said.
 
 A uniform exam is the best way of assessing students, said  , father of   from South Point School. “My son will take national entrance tests with greater confidence,” he said.
 
 Kendriya Vidyalaya (KV) schools in the region, however, fared worse than previous years. The pass percentage across KVs went down by about 2%. As many as 12 KVs recorded a 100% pass percentage while 30 KVs logged 90%. Officiating deputy commissioner of KV regional office S   said a changed exam pattern was responsible for the poor results. “Schools had been conducting internal exams so far and it left this year’s batch at a disadvantage. I think our students were a little nervous. But the pass percentage has gone down across all KVs nationally,” he said.
 
