BENGALURU:   disposal is a bugbear that has dogged the entire city and while the piles of rubbish on roadsides have often garnered focus, one issue that has slipped under the radar is collection of waste from schools. This issue was raised at the Times of India’s Bengaluru Forward event on Saturday.

 Shobha  , a resident of Rajarajeshwari Nagar and a volunteer on solid waste management, revealed that most of the waste from schools is paper. “There are hundreds of schools in our zone, but waste is not collected properly from these institutions,” she said. “Paper constitutes 90 per cent of waste from schools and ideally it should be sent for recycling. But it's being mixed with other waste. Sometimes the schools end up burning the paper.”
 
 
 Shobha insisted that there is a need to streamline waste collection from educational institutions, but the BBMP’s focus is primarily on residential units. Many residents of   and Yeshwantpur assembly constituencies also echoed these concerns.
 
 Shashidhar Kumble, from   of  , said some waste could be used as manure for saplings planted by the BWSSB in collaboration with a private company in their area. “If all goes well, wet waste collected by the BBMP can be used wherever saplings have been planted,” he said. “It will be good compost for the plants. For such work, there has tobe coordination between the two departments.”
 
 Tale of illegal layouts
 
 Another issue that was raised was the procuring of khatas. Getting a khata for a site or house they rightfully own is still a dream for many property owners in RR Nagar and other assembly segments which were earlier under the city municipal council.
 
 Loganath M, a resident of  , kicked off the issue and questioned the BBMP for calling their layout “an illegal layout”.
 
 “A court order says that ours is a legal layout and the BBMP was instructed to issue khatas,” Loganath said. “We had also approached the Lokayukta who had directed the BBMP to issue khatas in 2010. About 150 residents got khatas then, but the problem persists for more than 750 property owners.”
 
 The layout was formed in the 1990s when it was still within Pattanagere panchayat CMC limits.  , a resident of the layout, said: “Some miscreants and the land mafia doctored certain documents to prove that it was a revenue layout. But this is not revenue land. Even today the mafia is trying to take over this layout.”
 
 Reporting by
 
 Sunitha Rao R, Christin Mathew Philip, Arpita Raj & Niharika Alva
 
 
