BENGALURU: The unseemly sight of people urinating on roads may be common, but the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike ( ) has fined only five people for the offence since 2017, raising a pittance of Rs 1,300 as penalty.
 
  
 Civic experts, however, feel awareness and provision of more toilets are better ways to handle the menace instead of relying on punitive action.
 
 “While fining is a good practice, it depends entirely on chance. Officials are able to penalize violators only if they happen to catch them in the act... We must ensure there are enough toilets. Policies like the notification issued by the commissioner, stating that all petrol pumps should allow the public to use their toilets, don’t seem to have been implemented,” said  , member, BBMP expert committee on solid waste.
 
 The reason behind the menace may be a lack of toilets — a recent Janaagraha survey claimed that as per Swachh Bharat Mission guidelines, Bengaluru falls short by almost 1,100 public toilet complexes. But BBMP officials said what needs to change is public mentality. They said the five men were fined different amounts totalling Rs 1,300.
 
 “We can’t ask people to walk three kilometres to access a toilet. Some infrastructure needs to be in place if we want the situation to improve. However, behavioural change is also required, which can be achieved by raising awareness,” said V Ramprasad, solid waste management expert.
 
 Admitting that the problem will be resolved only if there is a change in mentality, Sarfaraz Khan, joint commissioner, health and solid waste management, said, “We are trying to promote easy access of toilets to people, and are constructing 2,500 toilets. Even with fining, enforcement will solve only 10% of the problem. There have been several cases of people urinating on roads despite public toilets being within 100 metres.”
 
 
 
 
 BBMP first started fining people for urinating in public in 2013, when the   ( ) Act was amended. According to the act, littering, spitting, urinating or defecating in the open will attract Rs 100 fine the first time; subsequently, violators will be fined Rs 200. However, some officials levy higher fines amounting to Rs 500.
 
