GUWAHATI: Kicking off  's campaign for the   election next year, party president Amit   set a target of winning at least 21 seats in the northeast, including Sikkim in the Lok Sabha election next year. 

 "In 2010, we won just five of the 25 seats in the northeast. In 2014, we won eight. Today, I set a target for all our workers - ensure our victory in 21 of the 25 seats," Shah told the 25,000-strong gathering at the booth committee presidents' meeting here, ahead of the panchayat election scheduled to be held in two months.
 
 Launching a scathing attack on   and accusing it of indifference towards the northeast, Shah accused it of "almost giving away" Assam to Bangladesh during Partition and "deserting" the state when China invaded Arunachal Pradesh in 1962. "During Partition, Congress has clubbed all of Assam in Group C. Had Gopinath Bordoloi (first chief minister of Assam in independent India) and Gandhiji not opposed it, Assam would not have been a part of India. When China attacked, Nehru bid goodbye to Assam. Why? So many of our jawans sacrificed their lives," Shah said. One of the proposals by the British Cabinet Mission before the Partition was categorizing states under three groups - roughly, one for Hindu-majority states, another for Muslim-majority states in the northwest and another comprising Bengal and Assam - that Congress had rejected. Drawing a contrast, Shah said the manner in which Prime Minister Narendra Modi had dealt with Doklam was exemplary. "After Modiji's stand on Doklam, no country would dare eye our borders," he added. 
 
 The slow pace of development in the northeast, Shah said, was due to the negligent attitude of Congress governments. "The people of the northeast have realized the sincerity of BJP and Modi's sincerity towards fast-tracking development in the region. It is for this reason that BJP is in power in six of the seven states in the region," he added. 
 
 Under the 13th Finance Commission during UPA rule, Assam got only Rs 79,741 crore, but under the 14th Commission in the NDA regime, the state got Rs 1,55,292 crore, the BJP president said.
 
 Shah also blamed Congress for disrupting parliamentary proceedings to avoid discussions on the government's plans for farmers of the country. He added, "It will be better if Rahulji allows the Parliament to run, in the interest of the nation." Shah will be meeting party MPs and MLAs later during the day. He will also hold a meeting with the state officer bearers, morcha presidents, spokespersons, district unit presidents here.
 
