LUCKNOW: A day after the Centre announced that all villages in the country have been electrified, BJP government in UP came up with data suggesting that nearly a dozen villages were electrified every week in the state since August 15, 2015 when PM   set a target of 1,000 days to take electricity to every village.

 UP was given May 12, 2018 deadline for electrifying 1,583 revenue villages under the Deen Dayal Upadhyay Rural Electrification Scheme (DDURES). In fact, the state accounted for nearly 9% of the national target of 18,000 villages.
 
 UP, in all, has 57,814 revenue villages, all of which, have been electrified. This, notably, does not include small hamlets and majras.
 
 Data compiled by energy department shows that UP government achieved the target by February-end — in 928 days or around 132 weeks, which means that 12 villages were electrified every week.
 
 Badaun district accounted for maximum 200 unelectrified villages, followed by 110 in   and 100 in Bijnor that were connected to state grid. Mainpuri, once represented by SP patriarch   and Kannauj, represented by SP chief Akhilesh Yadav’s wife Dimple, too saw 26 and 22 revenue villages, respectively, being electrified.
 
 Energy minister Srikant   said that Central scheme got a major thrust in UP after BJP came to power in March 2017. “The electrification work was expedited after state government inked the ‘24x7 Power For All’ agreement with Centre on April 14 last year,” Sharma told TOI.
 
 He said that DDURES got coupled with Saubhagya Scheme that envisaged free electricity connection to rural households.
 
 Data shows that the state government distributed 36 lakh electricity connections since the launch of Saubhagya Scheme in September 2017. Of these, over 14 lakh were given to Below Poverty Line category families. Sharma said that the number of electricity connections distributed under Saubhagya scheme were almost five times the normal rate of 7 lakh connections per year.
 
 The state government now faces the daunting task of providing metered electricity connections to over 1crore consumers, mainly in hamlets and majras, which have a population of less than 500. Sharma said that the government will meet the target by next year.
 
