Chennai: With less than 100 days left for the impending General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) to kick in, startups with any nexus to the EU region (clients in EU or global customers with presence in EU) are burning the midnight oil to get their IT and other policies in place with respect to personal data among others. 

 The regulation, seen as very strigent — requires businesses to protect the personal data and privacy of EU citizens for transactions that occur within EU member states. A failure will result in penalties as high as 20 million or 4% of turnover of the company. Simply put, a default will sound a death knell for startups. “The regulations put the onus squarely on the organisation to have a birds eye view of data coming in from all quarters. GDPR is actually changing the definition of privacy and personally identifiable information They need to make processes around data portability, assessments, have a data protection officer in place, make arrangements for removal of data amongst a host of other things,” said Jaspreet Singh, partner, cyber security, EY.
 
 Industry observers say most startups are yet to take this up in a major way. “The impact is quite serious. For a large company, the penalty will hurt but for startups, 20 million will simply make them bankrupt,” said Suresh Sambandam, founder, KiSSFLOW. A quarter of the company’s clients are in the EU region. EY’s Singh says companies need to go back to the drawing board to see what data they collect, why they do it and conduct a privacy impact assessment.
 
 Most companies are creating cross functional teams to manage the transition. For instance, at Chargebee, a council has been set up with one employee from each domain like marketing, sales, engineering etc who will look at the impact of GDPR in their focus area. The company has also hired a specialist to look into compliances including GDPR.
 
 Krish Subramanian, cofounder, Chargebee said, “There are 3 senior folks who are heads down on this to get it done by end of March for us. Every European customer has been asking. It's now table stakes.” For Chargebee, a recurring billing solution provider, GDPR has a cascading effect. “We are a "controller of data" for our customers that are businesses in EU because they use our service to setup their data workflows. We are also a "processor" of end user data. With GDPR, we now have to treat customer's email, and personally identifiable information to be as sensitive as card data information,” said Subramanian.
 
 While GDPR alignment is taking up time, cost and effort, there is an opportunity too, say industry observers. “The faster the company can go to market and proclaim that they are GDPR compliant, the quicker they can get clients onboard,” said Sing h of EY.
 
 
