LUCKNOW: While the   had no inkling about the uprising of 1857, the map of Lucknow that it had hurriedly got prepared just a year ago after  's annexation, came handy for the troops that were rushed to help the   under siege after the start of sepoy mutiny in the city on May 3. 

 
  
 
 After the annexation of Awadh in 1856, the company had felt an "urgent need" to carry out a survey of Lucknow. Without any information about the city that had been the royal headquarters, the company felt at a loss of not knowing the city. There was also an 'anxiety' to run the civil administration in Awadh smoothly right after the last king of Awadh, Wajid Ali Shah, was exiled to Calcutta. Months later, ever since May 10, 1857, when the uprising somersaulted into a bigger threat, the War Depot at the Survey of India in Kolkata became a busy department, producing single sheet maps showing disposition of various army units. 
 
 These were then rushed hurriedly so that military officers involved in planning to win back the city from the rebels could deploy replacements wherever necessary.
 
 
 
 Chairperson of the International Map Collectors Society, Susan Gole, while writing about the maps for the Uprising of 1857 in the book by the same name produced by the Alkazi Collection of Photography and edited by British historian Rosie Llewellyn-Jones mentions an important envelope present in the archives of the British library.
 
 She writes: “Lucknow had been surveyed in 1856 by Lieutenant William Robert Moorsom at the request of Colonel George Campbell, Commanding Officer of the 52nd Light Infantry. Among the archives of the British Library is an envelope on which Campbell wrote to Moorsom on April 5, 1856: “Dear Moorsom, the chief commissioner is anxious to get someone to undertake a survey of the city. Would you like to try it? I would exempt you from all duties — you might have any one in the regiment to assist you.”
 
 “The company didn’t know how many households were in the city. This was important because they were going to tax the householders. Annexation was costly — the company was going to disband the Nawab’s army and they needed money to pay them off. They had to pay off the Nawab’s servants, too, because Wajid Ali Shah left for Kolkata without paying his staff.”
 
 As per Jones, “The company also needed to work out which buildings belonged to the royal family, which were waqf, and what could be taken over for administrative offices. They needed to find out where the Lucknow jails were, and made a survey of them, finding some prisoners in dreadful conditions. They needed to find out where the police stations were, because they were anxious that civil administration should continue smoothly, as far as possible, after annexation. The East India Company had no idea of the forthcoming Uprising, very few people did.”
 
 She also said that the company wanted to make a fresh start. “Almost immediately they set up the electric telegraph between Lucknow and Kanpur (then Cawnpore), which Wajid Ali Shah had wanted to do, but the company wouldn’t give him permission. Because the company had a big cantonment in Kanpur which was the nearest British base, it made sense that communications between Kanpur and Lucknow would be a priority,” said Jones.
 
 But it was copies of these maps, drawn by Moorsom, Gole writes, that were certainly carried by General Henry Havelock and Lt-Gen James Outram when they approached Lucknow for quelling the rebellion. Among Moorsom papers, there was a small map of Bithur, near Kanpur, with a note stating that it was made on the spot while on horseback. This gives an idea of the urgency in preparing these maps.
 
 
