Kartik.Sood@timesgroup.com

 Chandigarh: The days of financial agony for wrestler   and her family seem to have got some respite with Punjab chief minister Captain   and a private firm coming to their rescue. Navjot, who won a gold medal in the recently-concluded Asian   Championship, has been offered the post of DSP in Punjab Police by the CM.
 
 Besides the job offer, a private energy producing company has offered to extend Rs 5 lakh as financial support to Navjot as part of its women empowerment programme. 
 
 “The Punjab CM has offered me the post of DSP in Punjab Police. He asked me my qualifications and gave assurance that the process to induct me would be fast-tracked once the documents about my qualification are submitted,” Navjot told TOI.
 
 On the job offer, an official spokesperson representing the Punjab government said, “Initially, the cabinet decided to give cash reward to Navjot, but the CM felt she deserved a job too. The cabinet immediately accepted the chief minster’s proposal and decided on a suitable job offer.”
 
 Amarinder has also directed concerned officials to work on a comprehensive policy to reward deserving sportspersons from the state. 
 
 “We are honoured to be associated with Navjyot Kaur. Her feat has made the country proud. The financial support that we are extending is a small way of appreciating her. We are committed to helping her focus on her career and pursuing her dreams — thereby encouraging and inspiring many more young women to take up wresting as a sport,” said Vineet Mittal, the chairman of Avaada group — the private energy producing company that has offered Rs 5 lakh as financial help to Navjot.
 
 Meanwhile, Navjot didn’t have the faintest idea that her gold medal-winning feat could work wonders for her family. “I have won international medals before, but this one is special since it’s the first time I managed to win a gold medal. I’m glad that people are now recognising me as well,” she added.
 
 Sukhchain Singh, Navjot’s father, a farmer by profession, was also over the moon. 
 
 “I think the years of hard work and the efforts that we as a family put in for her, are finally paying off. I thank all of them who are supporting Navjot. Now, my only wish is to see her win an Olympic medal,” he said.
 
 After Navjot won the medal, TOI had highlighted how Navjot’s father, who is a farmer, had run up a debt of Rs 13 lakh over the years to support the training of his daughter.
 
 
