AHMEDABAD: The   being probed by   CID crime may expose a Rs 1,300 crore scam. Though the kidnapping dealt with around 200 bitcoins worth Rs 12 crore, the key lies in the earlier kidnapping of a software engineer on February 1, 2018, who was administrator of a   investment company.

 “That earlier kidnapping has never come on record. But the kidnappers in that case, who also belonged to  , extorted 1,850 bitcoins worth Rs 92.50 crore from the engineer as he knew the password of the e-wallet,” said a CID crime official.
 
 He added, “The kidnappers had come in the guise of income tax officers. Now this person along with his wife, who is also a software engineer, has slipped out of the country with about 22,000 bitcoins worth more than Rs 1,300 crore belonging to investors.” 
 
 CID crime officials said a parallel inquiry is going on about the earlier bitcoin related episodes. They also hinted that after November 2016, when demonetization was announced, a lot of people, most from Surat, had invested their black money in the form of bitcoins in the company which was established in 2009.
 
 “They promised an interest up to 4 % on investments every three months. The promoters of the company took the value of the one bitcoin up to $470, and one fine day the value fell to $5 per bitcoin. The promoters left the country, and people couldn’t complain as their investment was mostly from black money,” said a senior CID crime official. “The last location of the owner of the bitcoin investment company was traced to Indonesia,” said the official. 
 
 
 
 
 It has come to light that before Shailesh Bhatt submitted his application on March 23, the cops who accused of kidnapping Shailesh Bhatt learnt about the person in Surat who has the password of the bitcoin investment company’s e-wallet. “A few policemen, supposedly on the instruction of Amreli SP  , flew to Mumbai, stayed in a hotel for two days to kidnap the person, but failed as he had already flown out of the country by then,” said a CID crime official.
 
 
 
 
 CID crime officials said that during the interrogation of inspector Sunil Nair of CBI posted at Gandhinagar it had come to light that he was in touch with Kirit Paladiya for long. “We have given a detailed report to CBI about his statement. They also are conducting an internal inquiry,” said a CID crime official. 
 
 
 
 
 CID said ex-MLA Nalin Kotadiya was in touch with almost all the accused arrested in the bitcoin case and even called up key conspirator Kirit Paladiya on the morning of February 11, when the kidnapping took place. 
 
 
 
 
 It could seem funny, but CID crime officials are so confused with the number of names popping up in the bitcoin case that have started marking different characters in the probe by the unique passwords of their bitcoin e-wallets or phones. “We identify Ketan Patel as “Loq”, and Shailesh Bhatt as “Choco”, said a CID official.
 
 
 
 CID said that as the case involves swindling of a lot of illegal money they are going to report the case to the Enforcement Directorate and to the Income Tax Department.
 
 Anant and Jagdish Patel used eight cellphones
 
 CID crime officials said inspector Anant Patel of Amreli LCB and the SP Amreli used about eight cellphones and sim cards each. “We have also seized about 27 bank passbooks from Jagdish Patel’s house,” said a CID crime official.
 
 
 
 
 CID crime officials said the during a meeting when they asked for the password of complainant Shailesh Bhatt’s high-end cellphone, he “forgot” the password and entered several wrong passwords which disabled the phone. “Even the FSL says they won’t be able to crack the phone, and hence we will have to send it abroad to retrieve the data,” said a CID crime official.
 
 
 
 
 CID crime officials said they have started a process to issue lookout notices against several absconding accused in the bitcoin case whom they suspect can flee the country, and have even begun the process to issue an RCN (Red Corner Notice) against about six accused 
 
 
