Times News Network

 Mohali: With 275 students graduating from the Indian School of Business (ISB), Mohali,   celebrated its graduation ceremony at the Mohali campus on Sunday. The chief guest, Mallika Srinivasan, chairman and chief executive officer, Tractors and Farm Equipment Limited (TAFE) gave away certificates to graduating students.
 
 Addressing the gathering, Srinivasan shared tips on what it takes to be a winner. “Let passionate diligence be your mantra to success. There is no substitute for hard work. When you love what you do, it doesn’t feel like work and as your love grows you’ll find yourself doing it better and better,” she said. 
 
 Harish Manwani, chairman, ISB executive board, Sunil Kant Munjal, chairman, Mohali campus advisory board and dean Rajendra Srivastava participated in the celebrations with students, families, faculty members, alumni, staff and visiting dignitaries. Addressing his first graduation as chairman of the executive board, Manwani said, “As a school, we provide you the best, be it the faculty, infrastructure or exposure. But taking this forward depends on your young shoulders. Because you all are the ones who are living examples to the world of what ISB stands for. On behalf of the Board, I am committed to support the school’s plans to expand and grow.”
 
 Earlier, dean Rajendra Srivastava spoke about the importance of industry-academia interface. “At ISB we integrate discipline-based academic perspectives with insights from the industry and the government. In today’s fast evolving world, while we have tried our best to teach you how to balance theory and practice, you have to think beyond traditional boundaries and now is the time for you to implement your learning in the work place. Wish you luck for the new beginnings in your life,” he said. 
 
 The graduation day began with a ceremonial procession led by the dean. The school celebrated students’ accomplishments and gave away awards to those who excelled in academics, extra-curricular activities, those who demonstrated exemplary leadership skills throughout the year and to the best faculty members.
 
 BOX: Awards 
 
 ISB Scholar of Excellence: Ankita Jain, Jyoti Goyal and Chandra Bagavan Chokkalingam were given the ISB Scholar of Excellence Award. The ISB Scholar of Excellence is awarded in recognition of outstanding academic performance throughout the year.
 
 Chairman’s All Rounder Award PGP Co2018
 
 The Chairman’s All Rounder award was given to Sneh Shah, PGP Co2018 who had demonstrated exceptional all round leadership skills through the year. In addition, the ‘ISB Young Leaders’ and ‘ISB Torchbearer’ awards were given to students who have demonstrated leadership skills, and all round excellence through the year.
 
 Professor of the year
 
 Professor Saravanan Kesavan was given “Professor of the Year Award for Core Courses” and Professor Piyush Kumar was awarded with the “Professor of the Year for Elective Courses.” Professor Dishan Kamdar was given the “Professor of the Year for PGPMFAB Class of 2017.”
 
 
