PUNE: Constructions near the highways are likely to face the axe with a state government committee recommending the minimum distance from the state and national highways and expressways where buildings can be permitted.

 The move is aimed at avoiding congestion on highways. 
 
 As per the recommendations, buildings should be located at a distance of 4.5m from the state highways. In case of national highways, they should be located at a distance of 3 to 6m while in case of expressways, they should be located at a distance of 15 m. Similarly, buildings have to be located at a distance of 4.5 m from district highways.
 
 A GR issued on May 14 said the state government would take into consideration the earlier guidelines of the   before finalising the new guidelines.
 
 “There will be specific rules for buildings near expressway, national highways and state highways,’’ stated PWD officials.
 
 There are 262 state highways and 25 national highways in  . The number of national highways is expected to increase with realignment plans being worked out. The state government had recently set up a committee, headed by the principal secretary (revenue), comprising principal secretary (public works department), principal secretary (urban development department) and secretary (roads), PWD as members and deputy secretary (roads) PWD, as member secretary, to formulate guidelines for permitting buildings near district, state and national highways.
 
 Officials from the national highways stated that it is essential to maintain the control lines so as to fix any building construction near the highways. “The minimum distance between a road and a building from the centre of the road depends on the area of the road. There should not be obstruction of view which may cause a danger to vehicular traffic,’’ they said. Purchasing property near the highways is the first choice of investors and it needs to be stalled.
 
 While the committee’s suggestions will be in the interest of smooth operation, developer’s representative from   Shantilal   stated that they should also keep the developers body in the loop when the alignment is finalised. “There is no point in changing the alignment at the last minute without informing the developer who has put in a lot of investment in a project,’’ he said. 
 
 
