PANAJI: The corrective steps implemented by   have earned the apex cooperative bank a profit of Rs 10.8 crore in 2017-18, thereby trimming the bank’s accumulated loss to Rs 57.8 crore as on date. The bank’s decision to focus on credit growth—loans worth Rs 10 crore are sanctioned every week— has helped the bank climb out of the red, said V B  , chairman of the government-appointed administrative committee for Goa State Cooperative Bank.

 
  
 
 “We have seen an 18.7% increase in loans and we have earned Rs 12 crore as additional income only through interest from these loans,” Verlekar said. “In 2018-19, we expect to make a minimum profit of Rs 25 crore and if we continue at this rate, in the next three years, we can erase all losses.”
 
 In the financial year 2016-17, the bank posted accumulated losses of Rs 67.8 crore. For 2017-18, the bank earned a profit of Rs 19.8 crore but deducted Rs 9 crore as compensation for the 64 staff who opted for voluntary retirement.
 
 The bank’s total loans hit Rs 1,454 crore in the recently-concluded financial year and the bank has also taken steps to reduce the interest burden from deposits. “The cost of interest on deposits has gone down to 5.61%. Our credit to deposit ratio is nearly 70%, one of the highest in Goa.”
 
 The state government’s decision to appoint a three-member administrative committee appears to have benefitted the bank. Verlekar along with retired banker Mohan Ramdas and chartered account   have initiated a slew of measures to revive the financial status of the apex cooperative bank.
 
 “Our salary burden has gone down on account of reduction of staff costs because of the VRS and retirement. There has been a substantial increase in advances and a reduction in administrative costs,” Verlekar said.
 
 The apex bank has also taken a decision to have proactive treasury operations and has brought in a consultant to invest surplus funds in government securities.
 
 The bank’s managing director A M   has also asked staff members to focus on recovery of dues from non-performing loans.
 
 “The bank is refocusing on its role as an apex cooperative bank and we are financing cooperative societies, cooperative housing societies, farmers federations and self-help groups,” Chodankar said.
 
 
