KOLKATA: State education minister   on Sunday met   vice-chancellor   and pro- VC (academics) Dipak   at his Naktala residence after only 43% students in BA (honours and general) and 73% students in BSc (honours and general) Part I examinations managed to pass this year.

 While the minister will again meet Kar, the university registrar and controller of examinations at   on Monday, a proposal was mooted on Sunday for CU to hold supplementary examinations in pass subjects for both honours and general degree students.
 
 “We have noticed that most of the honours candidates failed because they were unaware of the changed rule where the students are now required to secure 75 marks together for the two honours papers and also get 30 marks in one of the two general papers. Earlier, if a student secured 75 marks in honours, it meant she/he was considered promoted to second year even if they failed to clear both the general papers,” said a source. These students could clear their general papers in the second year.
 
 Similarly, general degree course students are now required to secure 30 marks in each of the two out of three general (pass) papers. Earlier, it was just one. “Thus, holding supplementary tests for general subjects may solve the crisis. Whatever is decided will be placed before the syndicate and then a call will be taken,” added the source.
 
 The university is switching to CBCS (choice-based credit system) in both BSc and BA from 2018 session. So, the exam patterns will also change. But students, who have taken admission in 2017, will continue to appear in Part-I for another year. The university authorities are now in favour of returning to the old 2009 rule for a year.
 
 Some of the reasons behind the poor show in Part I results this year, according to CU officials, are the sudden changes. “It was not placed in the syndicate and the decision was surprisingly not ratified. The CU VC had then invoked 9/6 rule of CU Act, which allows them discretionary powers to implement this,” said a source. As a result, many students who had taken admissions in the 2016 academic year were unaware of the changes. Also, since the decision was not placed before syndicate, even many colleges were unaware of it. “Any rule can be changed, but then, it should be effective from the next session,” said a teacher.
 
 CU officials are gearing up to enforce rules more strictly where colleges will have to submit marks of internal exams within 45 days. “The minister expressed anguish over colleges not sending marks to university, which led to almost 10,000 candidates failing the Part I exam,” the source.
 
