NAGPUR: Constable Manoj Ghode, posted at Ajni police station, was suspended by Zonal DCP   on Monday for his alleged role in ransacking an eatery on Kharbi Ring Road on Saturday, after creating ruckus with ‘his gang’. It’s reliably learnt that an externed goon, Irfan  , among others, too was present with him.

 Ghode, who has been absent from duty for the last couple of months, later even threatened the eatery manager for lodging a complaint at   police station, in the presence of cops. He sneaked away from the police station after realizing that an offence of rioting along with creating mischief was being registered against him. The cops are yet to arrest him. A bill of around 8,000 was not paid by Ghode and his friends.
 
 CCTV cameras at the eatery have footage of Ghode and Khan, who is his close aide. Khan was externed from city for two years. Sheikh  , a former externee, too is spotted in the CCTV footage.
 
 It’s learnt that constable Ghode and his accomplices had demanded liquor from a waiter, and started abusing him. Soon after the incident, Ghode summoned more of his gang, who began damaging furniture and ransacking the place.
 
 Mangesh Khodkar, manager of the eatery, approached Nandanvan police station to lodge a complaint. Initially, cops seemed to be in a mood to settle the issue, as Ghode was once a colleague, before being shifted a couple of years ago. The matter turned against Ghode when he started threatening Khodkar of dire consequences in the presence of Nandanvan police station officers. This led to registration of offences.
 
 Zonal DCP Nilesh Bharne said the constable has been suspended by him. “The step was discussed with seniors,” said Bharne.
 
 One of the eatery managers claimed Ghode had on   last year taken on rent the eatery (Rohit Family Restaurant) from owner Vijay Chikte. He was ousted from the eatery by the owner after allegations that the place was turning into a notorious gambling den. A source confirmed that several cops too used to frequent the place for gambling, and consuming liquor. Several dreaded criminals too frequented the place, including externed goons, they said.
 
 
