 general secretary   has said a true Marxist will adapt to changing conditions. In his first interview after the party’s Central Committee rejected his proposal to collaborate with   as part of a grand seculardemocratic force, Yechury tells TOI’s Swati Mathur that he would take the fight to the finish at the Party Congress, slated for April this year. Excerpts: 

 
 
 The tradition of inner-party democracy in my party believes in expressing views and discussing them threadbare. The majority decision is the decision of the party. Differences of opinion within the party should not be construed as victory of one or defeat of another. The Party Congress’ decision will be the final party line. 
 
 
 
 It was only natural when the majority did not accept something that I had put forward. I said it will be untenable for me to continue. But then the politburo felt it will not be correct, and that I should continue. The Central Committee also decided we should not give the impression that the party is divided before going to the Party Congress. Further, we have the   elections, which we did not want disturbed. 
 
 
 
 Politics is not arithmetic. Alternatives in politics will have to be made on the basis of policies. In Gujarat, for instance, people came together but policy alternatives was something on which people had no clarity. And unless that clarity exists, things will not work. That is why I say the country needs ‘Niti’ (policy) not ‘Netas’ (leaders). Gujarat is an eye opener. Despite BJP losing 11% votes and its seats declining, it was this lack of clarity on alternative policy direction that tilted the elections in its favour. That is what we have to work on: a policy alternative, not merely a collection of numbers. 
 
 
 Congress has been pursuing policies that have resulted in growing popular discontent. Thanks to these policies, BJP gained its place. If you follow the same policy directions, people’s discontent will always help communal forces. 
 
 
 
 Again, that is your perception. I am neither pro-Congress nor pro-BJP. I am pro-India and its people. In my draft resolution, all I said was that at the time of elections, appropriate tactics will be worked out to ensure the achievement of our primary objective of removing this government from office. While cooperating with all secular-democratic forces without entering into any electoral front or alliance with the ruling class parties, including Congress. There are no differences in CPM that this government must be ousted. The point, however, is how to achieve it. 
 
 
 
 Our strength has to come through policy alternatives, not numbers. CPM differed on various issues and settled them candidly and honestly. Jyoti Basu’s cadidature for PM was defeated twice at the CC and the Party Congress. But (Harkishen Singh) Surjeet continued as general secretary for seven years after that. And   remained politburo member. 
 
 
 
 I can only speak for myself. Marxism, according to me, is a creative science. The essence of it lies in the concrete analysis of concrete conditions. As conditions change, your analysis has to keep pace. If you do not change, you’re not a Marxist. As far as I am concerned, I believe this is what a Communist should be.
 
