Two shepherds were murdered, their third partner injured seriously, and a herd of 250 sheep robbed from them near the railway tracks at Pindarsi village in   at dawn on Tuesday. 

 
 Victims Arjun Singh (85) and   were found lying in a pit dug near their beds, with their mouths gagged with tapes and head injuries inflicted by blunt weapons. Their partner, Sandeep, who survived the attack, was found lying unconcious next to them. He was taken to Kuruskehtra civil hospital with head injuries. He is yet to regain conciousness.
 
 Police suspect the assailants had released some sheep from the herd as 65 of them were killed and 25 injured as a train rammed into them at some distance from the crime scene. The animals were unattended at that time.
 
 Police suspect the crime to be the fallout of a business deal going bad. The exact time of the deaths could not be ascertained and might have occurred between 2am and 3am, when Raja, Arjun and Sandeep were sleeping, suspect police.
 
 Before attacking them with blunt weapons, the robbers first tied the trio with ropes and then gagged them. 
 
 Police suspect Kaithal resident  , who made a failed attempt to purchase the livestock from the victims, to be behind the incident. "It is too early to reach any conclusion right now. Yes, Sachin has been named as a suspect, but we are verifying everything. We have handed over the bodies after the postmortem," said deputy superintendent of police (DSP) Sheetal Singh, the supervising officer of the case.
 
 A case has been registered at the   (GRP) police station in Kurukshetra. According to information, some passerby noticed the bodies and informed the police. Kurukshetra superintendent of police (SP)   and other officials reached the spot. Meanwhile, the locopilot of a train involved in an accident with the livestock also sent information to the Kurukshetra GRP. "We got the information from both sources. Around 6 am, we had information from local police about the twin murders. Then, about 6.30am, the locopilot sent us the memo informing about the death of sheep," said DSP Singh.
 
 
