Riding high on an outstanding domestic season for Kerala,   was brought for `8 crore by   during this year’s IPL auction. The wicketkeeper-batsman will be joining Steve Smith,   and Ajinkya Rahane as he returns to the club, for which he had played in 2013-15.

 With the India cricket team too on the lookout for young wicketkeepers, this season can be pivotal for the Thiruvananthapuram lad, who is one of the favourites to bag M S Dhoni’s spot after the veteran’s retirement. We catch up with Sanju to know about his future goals, the changes he has made as a player and more.
 
 
 
 I believe I am fortunate. However, you can never judge a player’s potential or talent based on the money he gets. You obviously need money to live but what made me the most happy was that I could return to Rajasthan Royals. It’s the team I always wanted to play for and I am glad I was picked by them this season.
 
 
 I think there should always be pressure to perform, that’s when players excel. For me, the pressure has always been there since I started playing. So I don’t think there’s a chance that it will affect me much. IPL is important, but playing for India gains precedence. As players, we are always striving hard to be better to achieve that dream.
 
 I like to think of it as a journey and as part of it I have been learning a lot of lessons. I have been focusing on keeping, the same way I have been for batting. I am working with Kiran More sir to improve my keeping skills. Whenever I have a problem, we discuss and he helps me out. Over the years, I believe I have been able to improve, and I want to keep polishing it going forward too.
 
 
 It’s kind of evident because that is the role that players like me are being groomed for. So, the importance of our domestic performance cannot be underlined enough. The past year, I have been able to perform well. That’s a positive sign. But to increase your chances to get in to the Indian team, you have to be consistent and that’s what I have been trying to do.
 
 
 That’s the popular opinion. The pitch, the conditions and ground size for the IPL suit batsmen better. But there are also skilled bowlers such as Basil Thampi who in spite of being young and inexperienced have got the wickets of big players at crucial times. So, when a bowler does well in such a tournament, his performance will be highlighted more unlike a batsman’s.
 
 
 This time, the team is looking strong; usually the line-up would be heavy on youngsters. I am really looking forward to playing with Rahane. When I first played the IPL with him, he was just getting into the Indian team and now he’s a star player. Similarly, Steve Smith is now a legend in international cricket. So, I am eager to learn from them.
 
 
 When an experienced coach like Dav Whatmore comes in, he gives priority to man management as well as bringing in a positive team atmosphere. Players usually don’t perform when they are straitjacketed in terms of discipline. Dav sir gave everyone the freedom and that had a major bearing on how well we are playing.
 
 
 I now enjoy the game more. Earlier, I used to be desperate to perform so that I can make it to the Indian team. I was extremely result oriented. All those things used to bog me down. But now, I try to actively enjoy batting as well as wicket keeping. I am also trying to delve deep and learn every aspect of the game, and in a way that too is helping me love the game more.
 
 
 I started playing the game when I was five years old, so cricket is all I know. But to relax, I go home frequently now. I love nature and enjoy travelling to such places alone. I also have some good friends, with whom I spend time.
 
 
 When good things happen to you, there are always people around you. But when you are going through a rough patch, that’s when you find the people who sincerely care and will be there for you. Last two years were tough for me and I figured out who would be there to help me in my difficult times. It was a good lesson for me in life. The only reason I reached this level is because of my father. I will always have the respect towards my parents because their support has been elemental in me being where I am in life. I also have a few friends who have been there. Professionally, my batting coach Jayakumar, who has played for Kerala for 10 years, helps me out a lot.
 
