The Kullu administration recently allowed tourist movement on the Manali-Leh highway, opening up the road for all the tourists planning to go to   Pass, Himachal and Ladakh. And the happiest lot are the  , who already have road trips planned to far off destinations like Rohtang, and  , as well as nearby cities like Shimla. 
Vishal Thakur from Chandigarh, who takes groups on bike and car tours, besides trek trails, has already booked his first few rides to Ladakh and Rohtang. “Our first bike group to Ladakh is starting on July 1, while the ones to nearby locations have already started.” With a maximum of 10-15 bikes, Thakur’s group also includes girls. “Earlier it was just the girlfriends and wives of bikers, but now, female bikers also come for rides,” says Thakur, who also has riders from Chennai and Goa booking with him. He adds, “For most tours, we have bikers from   booking rides with us.” The reasons Thakur lists for this are, “higher income of the NCR biking enthusiasts, who are businessmen, corporate executives, and even artists.” Another Chandigarh biker Vidhu Verma says that 60% bikers on these trips are from NCR. “I have friends who drive down from Delhi every year to join us on the ride to Khardung La in June end,” he says. 
 
  
  Several residents prefer to take an experienced rider who knows the route and plan the ride themselves
 
 But it’s not just Ladakh that is calling out to NCR’s bikers. Mohit Arora, a resident of Sushant Lok, tells us, “I will be taking a trip to   with four of my friends in June. We were thinking of Ladakh initially, but I get a feeling that it might be too crowded, since aaj jisko dekho bike lekar Ladakh jaa raha hota hai.” The adventure junkies say that they prefer bikes over other modes of transport like cars and trains as it not only allows them to enjoy the travel but also feel connected to the road. Gurgaon resident Adil Nargolwala says, “Biking in India is closest to flying. In a car, you are insulated from the sights and sounds. But biking is where you are connected to the road. It is the best way to travel. I have taken trips to Ladakh and the North-East, and my last trip was to Shimla, where I did   in the mountains as well. I plan to take another trip in the coming few months, but haven’t zeroed in on a destination yet.”
 
  
  THE HILLS ARE CALLING
 
 Operators say that Gurgaon’s corporate crowd has both the money and awareness to opt for biking vacations over regular modes of travel, which is what makes the fad so popular here. Ravi Singh, a Delhi-based travel operator, says, “Almost 40% of our NCR bookings are from Gurgaon when it comes to bike vacations. The most common destinations are Ladakh, Solan, Bhutan, and Nepal.”
 Group Capt (Retd) Ram Ithikkat, who runs a motorcycle adventure tour company, says, “With Gurgaon, there are two factors that contribute to a high number of people going for biking trips. First is a high expendable income among the corporate employees of the city – biking is an expensive hobby. Second is the fact that the 30-something-year-olds of Gurgaon realise that biking and travel is an education in itself. Travelling like that allows you to absorb the culture and nuance of various places. The focus is on adventure but with proper safety and precautions. Gurgaon’s bikers aren’t reckless.”
 But while the rest of the country is content with rides to Ladakh and the North-East, Gurugrammers are pushing the limits when it comes to their biking vacations and heading for places as far as Europe. Ithikkat informs that while destinations like Ladakh, Nepal, and the North-East are especially popular in the summers, they get bookings for European destinations like   and Scotland too. “We have even had people taking trips to Europe. One of our riders from Delhi is part of a group that is doing a 55-day 17000-km Delhi-London trip and has just crossed the Gobi Desert,” he adds.
 
 Not all trips are through tour operators though. Several residents prefer to take an experienced rider who knows the route and plan the ride themselves. Amit, a resident of Gurgaon, says, “Five of us went to Ladakh last year in June on cruisers. One of us had taken the trip before, while for the remaining four, it was the first time. His experience came in handy because he knew where to stop, where to eat. We didn’t need a travel operator. People think that it is dangerous to go to the mountains on bikes but that’s not the case. Every 15-20 minutes, you will see a biker or a bike group riding alongside, and everybody helps everyone. It’s a great experience.”
 
 
