NOIDA: Oscillation trials to check train performance on the 29.9km Aqua Line metro between Noida and   is likely to begin within a week. 

 The trial will start once the track receives full power from the receiving sub-station located at Sector 148, Noida. “The substation has completed all its civil work and is awaiting safety clearances from electrical safety department before power can be transmitted to the Aqua line,” an official of   told TOI on Wednesday.
 
 Oscillation trial involves a series of trials conducted by Research Designs and Standards Organisation under railway ministry to check train performance on the actual track under various load capacities and speeds and then compare them with design values. During the trials, the train will be tested at different speeds to measure the lateral and vertical acceleration (wobbling of coaches) at different locations. The values must be within the specified limit. The tests will also be repeated under different load conditions (full/empty). OT will also include the emergency braking distance trials. This is to check if the train stops within a specified distance and time on applying the emergency brake. 
 
 According to Saurabh Gaur, superintending engineer, UPPTCL, they have already applied for safety clearances from the department. “We expect a visit by their officials in the next 2-3 days, after which we will get a report. Following this clearance report, the substation will go live and we will be able to transmit power to energize the entire Aqua Line,” he said.
 
 At the receiving sub-station, incoming power supply at 132 kV voltage level will be taken from grid substation of state electricity board, that is, UPPTCL, and will be stepped down to 25 kV for traction (train operation) purpose and 33 kV for power to feed station loads, like lighting, airconditioning, lifts, escalators, etc. The 21 stations along the corridor will also be powered by 10 megawatt solar energy generated by roof-top solar panels.
 
 “The reliable electric power is a critical requirement for operating metro network,” said P D Upadhyay, general manager (finance),   who presently also holds charge of executive director of the metro company. “Once we receive complete power for the trial run, we will take the trial up to Sector 149 in Noida. Presently, we are using an alternative source of power supply from the depot. This temporary 30 megawatt power is being provided by discom, RC Green,” he said.
 
 “With this, the trials called the “oscillation trial” will be undertaken. This trial will focus on curves along the metro track and cover another four stations including Alpha-I, Pari Chowk, Knowledge Park-II and Sector 149 located in Noida,” Upadhyay said. “Thereafter, all sections of the 29.9km corridor will be undertaken before the commissioning of the track in April,” he said. “Presently, trials are being undertaken by the four-coach metro test train up to Alpha-II station along the route from the depot (yard),” he added.
 
 
