KOTTAYAM: On an Easter day morning, appam is the buzzword here. Along with chicken or mutton stew, the soft and fluffy flat bread with crusty edges is a high point in the festivities on the day after a 50-day lent for the faithful.

 Traditionally, appam has been a must for the Easter breakfast, especially in Christian families in central Travancore. Even non-Christians in the region have developed a passion for it, especially on Easter. However, in recent years, due to various reasons, the residents, especially those in the urban areas have been depending on those who supply home-made appams.
 
 There are places like ‘Appatheruvu’ in the town, where small houses on either side of the narrow street make and sell appams. There are also catering units which make appams in their modernized kitchens in big numbers.
 
  has been making appams for the past four decades. The 70-year-old woman residing in   is an expert and has even went on to develop a new variety of appam called ‘sponge appam’ around 10 years ago. She has got regular customers and this time around she will be making over 10,000 appams apart from the usual ‘palappams.’ “Sponge appams have become popular. It is sweeter and has more coconut in it,” said Kochumol, whose kitchen has the capacity to make 50 appams at a time. Though stew was introduced here by the British, it has become an integral part of local menu, she said. “The British used milk in the stew while we use coconut milk instead,” Kochumol added.
 
 On an Easter day, the families in and around Puthuppally drive straight to Kochumol’s house after the morning service in the church, collect the appams and stew and head home for breakfast. The nonavailability of good quality coconut toddy has been a setback for Kochumol in recent years. Nowadays, she adds only a little toddy to the appam mix.
 
  used to be hugely crowded during Easter. Around 10 families here used to sell appams. Over the years, some among them has moved out and started their business from new buildings and modernized kitchens. But still, there are many like   who expect customers on Easter mornings.
 
 “I have kept the flour ready. I will make fresh appams for whoever comes in the morning,” she said.  , her neighbour, said people have now stopped approaching them as new catering units and restaurants have come up in the area. She pointed to the big vessels in which she once used to store flour which is now used to store water.
 
 A few metres away, on the side of the Kottayam-Kumarakom Road, Kunjumol runs a shop which specialises in appams. By Saturday evening, she had got an order for over 2,000. Sabu, another appammaker, said the demand during Easter day has been rising year after year. “I received an order for around 4,000 appams this year. I was forced to stop taking orders,” he said.
 
