PARIS: Novak Djokovic’s court coverage -- shuffle, short skip, little step, quick burst -- is a riveting sight. Add that slip, slide to the move on clay. It was the foundation on which the 31-year-old consolidated his stranglehold of the men’s game -- from the fall of 2010 to the 2016 US Open. He was stingy with time, gave too little, but always had the extra shot. Razor-like. Such was the intensity of his play. Never a thing of beauty, it was science at its groundbreaking best.

 
 
 In that time, the Serb, the game’s ultimate counter-puncher, made 19 major finals, winning 11 Grand Slam titles (from a total of 25 played). He was a puzzle top guns could read, but not solve. Djokovic, of slight build and feet that could fly, was never a destroyer or merely a winner, he simply whizzed past the field. In a flash. Ten-time Roland Garros winner Rafael Nadal called him his most difficult opponent, all-time great Roger Federer seconded that.
 
 In the last two years, the 12-time Grand Slam champion has struggled with a combination of mental, physical and personal issues, the wheels coming off his play. In the 2018 season, Djokovic, who underwent surgery on his right elbow following the Australian Open, has been making strides. For the father of two, clay is the most testing of surfaces as much because it takes too much out of his body when it’s perhaps not at his strongest, as because of the nature of the red-brown dirt that gives time to opponents.
 
 Djokovic appeared to take that head on Monday at Roland Garros, displaying more than a flicker of that old intensity in his 6-3, 6-4, 6-4 first round win over Brazil’s Rogerio Dutra Silva. The Serb cracked 37 winners, sealing the 2 hour 05 minute encounter with an ace.
 
 “It’s been a long 12 months, I’m starting to play better now. In the past couple of weeks, I’m not thinking about the elbow, playing pain-free,” he said, adding, “I played well enough to win today. I think I had some good moments in the match and some not that great. It was three-sets, solid, two-hour-match win.”
 
 Djokovic, ranked 22, who played four clay court events before arriving in Roland Garros, accumulating a 7-4 win loss record, said he had to dig deep to find the fire. “When I came back to the tennis court after four-and-a-half months of not playing tennis at end of last year, the pain recurred. I didn’t know which direction I was going to take me. I was not able to serve. Then I was put in a position to play the Australian Open. I managed to find some temporary solutions. That surgery had to be done when the season was already in the second month. Everything in life happens for a reason, and it’s on us to really figure out why certain things happen and try to learn from it.”
 
 Djokovic, who was made to work by the Brazilian, said he was in it only for the love of tennis. “This sport has given me so much, but I don’t feel that I owe anything to the sport. It’s a relationship based on love and passion,” he finished.
 
 In other first-round matches, men’s seventh seed Dominic Thiem beat qualifier Iiya Ivashka of Belarus 6-2, 6-4, 6-1; former champion   went down 2-6, 6-3, 6-4, 6-7 (5-7), 3-6 to Spain’s Guillermo Garcia Lopez. Among the women, second seed Caroline Wozniacki beat American   7-6 (7-2), 6-2; eighth-seeded Czech   rallied to beat Paraguay’s Veronica Cepede Royg 3-6, 6-1, 7-5; Former No.1 Victoria Azarenka lost 5-7, 5-7 to Czech Katerina Siniakova.
 
 
