MUMBAI: A section of the   ( ) wants to accept at least a couple of the  , which have been rejected by the Board since the   formulated them on July 18, 2016.

 
 As reported by TOI, representatives of around 11 state associations held an 'informal' meeting here at a five-star hotel. The gathering was chaired by acting BCCI secretary Amitabh Chaudhary. Board treasurer Anirudh Chaudhary wasn't even invited. Veteran administrators N Srinivasan and Niranjan Shah have both been disqualified from continuing in the Board by the Lodha reforms on multiple grounds. That means they aren't a part of the camp which has made up its mind to accept a few reforms partially.
 
 There were conflicting reports about the presence of IPL chairman Rajiv Shukla, who, according to sources, is keen to become the next BCCI president.
 
 "We want to follow Lodha reforms, except the two-three points which aren’t acceptable to us. We are ready to accept the 70-year age cap and the nine-year tenure clause for the BCCI office-bearers. However, we aren't ready to accept the one-state-one vote, cooling off period, and the three instead of five selectors' clause," a BCCI member who attended the meeting told TOI.
 
 Another source threw more light on what transpired in the meeting. "As we were in touch with each other, some member associations had met in Mumbai with a view to find out the way ahead with regard to implementation of the SC order. After discussions, it was decided that the members of the BCCI must go ahead with the implementation of the judgment except in the following areas in which implementation doesn't seem to be practicable — one-state-one vote, provision of cooling off period (after every term), constitution of the apex council, distribution of powers between the elected office-bearers and professional appointees. We will now convey our views to the Hon SC and do the needful," he said.
 
 However, a Board member who wasn't invited to the meeting, sounded extremely pessimistic. "The purpose of this exercise is to make Shukla the BCCI president, Amitabh Chaudhary the secretary, and the   (VCA) treasurer Murali Pantula (who was present at the meeting) the Board treasurer when the Board elections happen. In Thursday’s meeting, there were just four-five 'voters' whom they can reliably count upon in the polls. There are only five votes that they can count as reliable — Maharashtra, Vidarbha, Assam, Jharkhand and Uttar Pradesh. The other associations may have attended the meeting, but may not support them when time comes," he claimed.
 
 "Which platform is this? These people are confused. This was a failed attempt to garner support for their aims. Their 'reliable' voters are only five. They falsely claim to have the support of Anurag Thakur and an influential leader at the centre, who has a huge say in BCCI matters. This meeting would have had some substance, if 20 members were there, which just wasn’t the case," he lamented.
 
 
