NEW DELHI: For 17-year-old Rinku from Assam, joining   was the best decision of her life. At first she used to consider it just another class, but now she feels that it is a platform that can bring about change for a better tomorrow.

 Like her, there are 2,070 cadets from across India, including 695 girls, participating in the camp at Delhi Cantonment. Also, there are 102 cadets from Jammu & Kashmir and 162 from the Northeast. The one-month camp commenced on January 1 at Cariappa Parade Ground.
 
  NCC for bringing about a change in the  , chief minister   also praised the cadets for their dedication while visiting the  . Other dignitaries who attended the event included the vice-president, defence minister, chiefs of the Army, Navy and Air Force.
 
 The cadets undergo a tough selection process by participating in cultural activities, national integration awareness programme and institutional training competitions, said an Army officer.
 
 “During the past one year, my confidence has been boosted due to the activities that I have participated in. I have imbibed discipline that will help me a lot in my future,” said Rohit, a cadet.
 
 The aim of the Republic Day camp is to enhance the self-confidence of cadets, deepen their core value systems and provide an exposure to the rich culture and traditions of our nation, the Army officer added. NCC has conducted youth and nation building exercises, social awareness campaigns, community development, environment protection, sports and adventure.
 
 The event began with performances by bands of NCC contingents from schools across the country after which a cultural programme was held in the auditorium.
 
 Kejriwal said, “Community development and social service schemes undertaken by cadets — including environment protection, tree plantation, blood donation, adult education, Swachh Bharat Mission and anti-tobacco, anti-dowry, anti-leprosy, anti-drugs, AIDS and cancer awareness campaigns — are very powerful tools to spread awareness across all sections of society.”
 
 
