Coimbatore: Construction debris greets commuters who travel the 1km stretch from the Gandhi park junction to the Milk company on  . 

 The construction debris has been dumped on the roadside a month ago after the state highways department removed encroachments and the surface of tar laid on roadsides. The officials said the pathways constructed on the roadsides were blocking the drain openings leading to water stagnation on the road sides during rain.
 
 “We removed the illegally constructed pathways and encroachments on the Thadagam road as we plan to widen the road,” an official said. When asked about clearing the debris, the officials said that they will remove it soon. “Due to staff shortage, there is a delay,” said the official.
 
 However residents in the area said that this posed more problems for them. “We were glad when they were removing the illegal constructions as they had blocked the openings to the drains eventually causing water stagnation. But now, these heaps of construction debris will do the same. The officials never complete their job. The road looks like a dump yard,” said C A Jaganathan, a resident.
 
 Another commuter, S Gokul Raj said that the officials and residents have turned the road into a garbage bin. “Anytime on these roads, we can find mounds of debris and garbage on the road sides. The officials keep telling us this will be taken up under smart city and developed but we have no idea when it will be done,” he said.
 
 B Sreenivasan, an auto driver in the area said that the existing drains in the area had been narrowed by the city corporation in the past decade. “The drains that were four-feet wide had been narrowed and due to this, the sewage often overflowed on to the roads creating a pool. We have taken up this issue to the civic body several times, but no action has been taken,” he said.
 
 Corporation officials said they had de-silted the drains in November before the monsoon. “The drainage overflow in the area is due to garbage dumping on roadsides and narrow drains. We will rectify them,” said an official.
 
 
