CHENNAI: With hundreds of residents charging the shrimp farms boom in the   with polluting their drinking water, experts from the Chennai-based Central   (CIBA) have recommended the scientific mapping of the lake to address the villagers' fears. 

 Kaliveli Lake in Villupuram district - the second largest brackish water lake in south India after Pulicat-is also the prime source of water for drinking and cultivation of paddy for hundreds of surrounding villages in   and Tamil Nadu.
 
 Villagers complain that shrimp farms have encroached on several thousand acres of agricultural land, affecting its fertility, adding that the discharge of water laden with chemicals by the firms had also made their drinking water source unusable.
 
 R Thanigavel, 52, a former licensed shrimp farm owner now involved in agriculture, said it is mandatory to register a shrimp farm with the coastal aquaculture authority (CAA) and ensure that the coastal regulation zone (CRZ) is not violated but many farmers do not abide by the regulations, creating a threat to biodiversity by using unrecommended chemical feeders and discharging untreated chemical effluents directly into the lake.
 
 V Subramanian 48, another farmer from Marakkanam, said the discharge of untreated chemical waste and effluents was gradually affecting the fertility of the soil and yield when they used the contaminated water for irrigation. He also said that the polluted drinking water had left many villagers sick in recent days.
 
 Subramanian said the taste, odour and colour of the drinking water pumped out of   lake is deteriorating by the day and demanded that the district administration intervene to provide safe drinking water to the villagers.
 
 M  , environment expert and principal scientist with CIBA, told ToI that shrimp farms that do not follow scientific methods of cultivation and use unrecommended feeders and antibiotics to protect shrimps from disease would contaminate the groundwater table and recommended a detailed scientific study (mapping) of the lake.
 
 Muralidhar said institutes like CIBA helped develop the rural livelihood of farmers by educating them on safe and scientific methods to harvest native white shrimps (Penaeus vannamei), adding that shrimp harvesting was highly profitable, with owners able to earn a profit of at least one lakh rupees for every one tonne of harvest within a short span of four months. 
 
 But he insisted that the business must be carried out in a responsible way so that it does not inflict any ecological damage. He also sought a proposal from the district administration to conduct the mapping.
 
 TOI tried to contact the Villupuram district collector but he was unavailable for comment .
 
 
