GURUGRAM: In a move that will boost last-mile connectivity and reduce dependence on autorickshaws that make commuters pay through the nose, residents of   Qutub Enclave have roped in a private firm to roll out app-based   service in the area. 

 A company, which follows the model of a cab aggregator, flagged off the service on Wednesday, offering big relief to hundreds of residents who came up with the idea after they grew flustered with exorbitant rates charged by auto drivers in the area.
 
 
  
 
 According to the plan, e-rickshaw stops have been made at seven places, including Qutub Enclave, DLF 1  , Sikanderpur Metro Station, Mega Mall, Guru Dronacharya Metro Station, DLF 1 Block A and Silver Oaks Apartment. 
 
 “We were very disappointed with service offered by autorickshaws in the area currently. They charge us exorbitant rates and are infrequent. Many of them haven’t installed fare meters,”said Gaurav Singal, a resident.
 
 Singal said commuters could avail both solo and shared rides. “While autorickshaws charge Rs 50 for a distance of even 500 metres, new e-rickshaws charge only Rs 10-15 for a shared ride for up to three to four kilometres,” he said.
 
 Sunil Goswami, another resident of DLF1, said the new green initiative of the residents’ welfare association ( ) offers a safe commute to people. “The fares are economical. And also, it ensures a pollution-free transport.”
 
 The RWA of Fresco Apartments in Sector 50 had also rolled out a similar e-rickshaw service within the township in April. That was the first instance in the city of an RWA tying up with a private firm to offer pick and drop facility to its residents, especially to school children.
 
 The service in DLF1 is app-based, but can also be availed through phone calls as well. Residents told TOI that one of their big concerns could be solved with the implementation of e-rickshaw service in the condominium. “We had a very huge last-mile connectivity problem,” Dhruv Bansal, a resident said.
 
 The RWA of DLF1 Qutub Enclave signed an agreement with private firm SMART-E last week to roll out e-rickshaws in the area. The first fleet of 10 three-wheelers was flagged off on Wednesday.
 
 RS Rathee, president, RWA said more e-rickshaws would be added to the fleet in phases. “The firm will work like a cab aggregator. We have launched an app so that residents can hail an e-rickshaw from anywhere in the area. We have identified some areas where commuters will be dropped and picked up. Besides, it will connect with nearest metro and Rapid metro stations in Sikandarpur, Guru Dronacharya and DLF1.”
 
 E-rickshaws are very common in Delhi but in Gurgaon, the service hasn’t clicked yet for some reason, according to many commuters. Their batteries operate within small distances and are very efficient and cost-effective, they said. 
 
 
