JAIPUR: The Rajasthan High Court directed the district collector and police superintendent of   to ensure the safety and security of the family against whom a   in Alwar issued a decree to nullify a marriage and imposed a penalty of Rs 5.51 lakh.

 The police in Alwar and Dausa were also directed to issue notices to the khap panchayat members.
 
 The single bench of Justice B L   directed the authorities to ensure that the decree of the order of the khap panchayat was not carried out and did not hinder the freedom of movement of the petitioners’ family members.
 
 Tanveer Ahmed, counsel for the petitioner  , said, the petitioner’s younger brother   of Alwar married a girl, namely   of Dausa district, in April 18 2017. But following differences between the couple, the girl’s family approached the khap panchyat of Sakat village in Alwar to nullify the marriage. At its meeting held on December 27 last year, the panchayat decreed the petitioner to deposit Rs 11 lakh with it. They also directed him to grant divorce to his wife so that she could marry another man.
 
 In January 7, another khap panchayat was called which the petitioner also attended. The petitioner questioned the decision of the panchayat and informed them that their decision was illegal. Following his objection, the meeting was dispersed. However, on the next day, when the petitioner, a lawyer practicing in the high court, came to Jaipur, a khap panchayat was again convened and they decreed to settle the matter for Rs 5.51 lakh instead of Rs 11 lakh. They also directed the petitioner to deposit the amount within three days, failure of which the panchayat would not only socially boycott the family but also hang them upside down.
 
 The petitioner said though he had appraised the Alwar district police superintendent about the matter, he did not act on his complaint. The petitioner sought a direction from the court to ensure the security of his family. The court will again hear the matter after four weeks.
 
 
