Chandigarh: A housemaid service of Delhi cheated two people of Rs 80,000 on the pretext of providing them with domestic help. Sandeep Arora of Sector 34 claimed to have paid the agency Rs 39,000 for the servant that fled after just two days. A Sector 43 woman who had a similar experience, said she was cheated of Rs 40,000.

 Arora said he had searched online for the   and come across the telephone number of a Delhi-based service provider. He called up on the given number a few days ago and the man who answered introduced himself as Abhishek. He promised to send over a maid for annual charges of Rs 39,000. An unsuspecting Arora made the payment to the agency and a woman came to his house and started working.
 
 “The maid worked for only two days and fled the house one night,” Arora has told the cops. “She did not steal anything from the house. I tried to contact her on her mobile phone but the device was switched off. I tried to contact Abhishek on the agency number several times but he was unavailable.” Finally, he lodged a complaint with the Sector-34 police. Ajay Kumar, station house officer of Sector 34, said that a case of cheating had been registered on Arora’s complaint and a police team would got to Delhi on Monday to catch him.
 
 The Sector-43 woman, Rinku Bali, told police that she had contacted an agent in Delhi to hire a maid for her house. She paid Rs 40,000 in advance to the agent as annual fee for the service and he sent a maid to her house the next day. This maid, however, disappeared after just two days. Rinku Bali rang up the agent but he did not pick up her calls. When she reached his Delhi office, she found the agent missing since that day. “Despite several complaints to the Sector-36 police, they not ready to register the case,” she alleged.
 
 Timeline
 
 January 6 | Sector-34 resident Sandeep Arora finds a housemaid agency on the internet and hires its services
 
 January 10 | The agency sends a maid to his house in Sector 34
 
 January 12 | Family fails to find mail in the house and after a long search, take the case to the Sector-34 police
 
 January 13 | Sector 34 police booked agent Abhishek and other employees of the Delhi firm for cheating
 
 
