BHOPAL: On the eve of voting in   and  , both parties approached the Election Commission for action against each other on Friday even as aftershocks of the previous evening’s violence kept the administration on its toes. 

 A delegation of   leaders approached EC, opposing an FIR against BJP MLAs in Kolaras and Mungaoli. BJP leaders said that the MLAs were not violating election code of conduct and demanded action against Kolaras   candidate Mahendra Yadav for “instigating violence and attacking BJP MLA from Bhind, Narendra Singh Kushwaha”.
 
 “MLA Kushwaha was detained and attacked by Congress workers while returning to Bhind after campaign came to an end on Thursday. Police also held him for several hours but could not find any objectionable material in his vehicle. A police complaint has been filed in the regard,” said BJP state general secretary Ajay Pratap Singh.
 
 On Thursday night, police detained Kushwaha in Kolaras, and also booked Sagar MLA Shailendra Jain for allegedly campaigning in Mungaoli after canvassing ended at 5pm on Thursday. Both MLAs were released on bail on Friday. BJP alleges that police high-handedness led to violence in Kolaras. 
 
 Opposing action against BJP leaders, Singh said Jain was returning home after meeting his relatives in Mungaoli. However, Congress made it an issue and filed complaint against him. MLA Kushwaha also opposed the police action against him, alleging it was a Congress leader who detained and attacked him. They also ransacked his vehicle, he alleged.
 
 “Police detained me when I was on Shivpuri highway, returning to Bhind, on Thursday evening. Congress candidate from Kolaras, Mahendra Yadav, and his supporters arrived and attacked me, damaging my vehicle. There was nothing objectionable found in the vehicle but I was arrested. I condemn police high-handedness at the instance of local Congress leaders,” Kushwaha told reporters at a press briefing in Bhind on Friday afternoon.
 
 With both Congress and BJP have demanded CCTV monitoring of the poll process on February 24.
 
 
