CHENNAI: The   on Friday categorically refused to entertain a   seeking action against the Andhra Pradesh police for ‘illegally’ arresting 500 people from Tamil Nadu.

 “This court does not have territorial jurisdiction over Andhra Pradesh authorities, that too in a PIL,” the first bench of Chief Justice   and Justice Abdul Quddhose said.
 
 To this advocate P  , who moved the petition, submitted that the Tamil Nadu government was responsible for the plight and this court could order the Tamil Nadu police to follow the guidelines set by the Supreme Court while arresting a person in the D K Basu case.
 
 “There is no doubt that the guidelines set in the D K Basu case is binding on police authorities all over the country. However, we do not understand how this court while entertaining a PIL can issue direction on Andhra Pradesh authorities, which is beyond our territorial jurisdiction,” the court said. 
 
 The bench added that the PIL lacked details of the people arrested, place of arrest, or list of officers involved in such arrests.
 
 The court can exercise such jurisdiction over other state authorities when an individual approaches the court alleging violation of their constitutional right, but not in a PIL, the judges said.
 
 However, before closing the PIL, the bench directed the Tamil Nadu police to ensure implementation of the D K Basu guidelines in letter and spirit during arrests in Tamil Nadu.
 
 According to the petitioner, in 2017, more than 500 people living in various parts of Tamil Nadu were arrested by the Andhra Pradesh police without the knowledge of their Tamil Nadu counterparts. The people arrested were not being dealt with in accordance with law, the PIL said.
 
 “They would come to Chennai city and other places and arrest people as per their whims and fancies, take them to an unknown place, torture them, and ultimately produce before a judicial magistrate in Andhra Pradesh after a few days or a week or even a month from the date of their arrest. This kind of atrocities on the part of the Andhra Pradesh police continue unabated,” Pugalenthi said.
 
 
