In the 23rd issue of   Origins, a comic book series focusing – well – on the origins of Wolverine,   aka Wade Wilson tries to swear, only to be told by Wolverine that he can’t in his comic book. “You can try, but it will only appear as #$%&@$%,” says Wolverine before kicking Deadpool in the jaw as he tries to attempt his ‘favourite cuss word’. The joke was that the very swear words Deadpool could say in his own title were forbidden when he crossed over into the 'X-Men' universe. 
Deadpool was always unconventional in the superhero-verse in that it pushed the boundaries for what was deemed acceptable in the medium. The word often used to describe him was ‘edgy’. 
 
  
  Deadpool: How a cussing ‘merc with a mouth’ became an R-rated superhero
 
 The film – starring   – further sharpened this edge by choosing to be one of the first R-rated superhero films. Superhero films have always been made for family audiences – kids, parents and grandparents alike. The notion is that the kids grow up reading the source material – comic books – and the parents find the ‘saving the day’ message appealing. Even films with darker tones – such as the ones in the DC Entertainment Universe – were almost always envisioned as PG-13 rated. Deadpool turned that formula on its head, because a movie on Deadpool required nothing less than an R-rating. Only then could it include all that made Deadpool everyone’s favourite foul-mouthed, arrogant, fourth wall-breaking superhero (super anti-hero?) – the profanities, graphic violence and sex. 
 
  
  
 The R-rating meant that the film would be off limits to what had till then comprised of the bulk of the audiences for superhero films. However, the makers knew that this was a superhero film whose origins had come about due to its fans, and the fans wanted Deadpool as he was – undiluted. When an April Fool’s Day gag in 2015 suggested the movie could be rated PG-13, the fans protested in unison. The message was clear – Deadpool was always supposed to be a ‘merc with a mouth’.
 The aggressive marketing campaign took the film to the mainstream audience, but making sure the core Deadpool fandom knew the film didn’t have a watered-down-version of their favourite superhero. In 2016, Marc Weinstock, the then   domestic marketing chief, outlined their marketing philosophy, “We wanted to be everywhere. And we knew from tracking that we had reached beyond the core fans. We were getting everybody. Our whole plan was to be accessible as possible in explaining who Deadpool was while treating the fanbase with respect.”
 
  
  
 
 In an interview with Hollywood Reporter, the film’s producer   explained why 'Deadpool' needed that edge. He said, “I feel like the biggest (difference) was the self-referential nature of the movie, more than the ‘R’ rating and the violence and the sex. All of that was more heightened than what you can do in a PG-13 film, but to me, creatively at least, it was the fact that the movie comments on other movies. That’s something superhero movies traditionally haven’t done and most movies don’t do. I think people were ready for a movie that could make fun of other superhero films. ['Deadpool'] was almost the opposite of the X-Men movies, which are very dramatic and self-serious and almost operatic. This is like punk rock.”
 
 'Deadpool 2' director   sums up the movie’s unique positioning in the overflowing cauldron of superhero film genre. “'Deadpool' is always about playing against the expectations of superhero movies and I think that is why it was so successful. Or one of the reasons it was so successful because it plays against those expectations,” Leitch said in an interview to the Independent last year.
 
