RAJKOT: Over 600   in Lakhota lake of   in last three days, raising concerns over environment pollution and health risks for people living in the vicinity of one of the most visited tourist spots of the city. 

 Pollution watchdog   (GPCB) has found deficiency of dissolved oxygen (DO) in lake water.
 
 The   (JMC) had recently completed beautification of the historic Lakhota lake, also known as Ranmal Lake, but seems to have failed to address the issue of pollution. 
 
 People have been complaining of severe stink from the decaying dead fish and said that it has become very difficult for them to visit the lake which is a major tourist attraction. The lake periphery, which is a favourite hangout for locals, has seen decline in visitors. The famous Bala Hanuman temple is also situated near the lake. 
 
 Suresh Bhatt, president of  , an NGO working for ecology conservation, said, “The dust from the brass industry, acid from ice industries and chemical of pesticide bags mix in Lakhota lake water. The swelled body of fish indicates presence of some kind of pesticide in the water.”
 
 This is not for the first time that fish have died in Lakhota Lake. However, this time around, the number of dead fish is very high and the decomposed fish have raised stink to unbearable level, added Bhatt. 
 
 Vijay Soni, senior GPCB scientific officer in Jamnagar, said, “We have taken sample of water and sent it for testing. If we find any industrial discharge in the water we will definitely take action. We test the water every month and have not found traces of industrial wastage. The Jamnagar civic body has suspended operation of fountains which has resulted in oxygen deficiency and that’s the cause of the fish’s death. We found the deficiency of dissolved oxygen (DO) in lake water.” 
 
 JMC commissioner R B Barad said that they have tested the water and found nothing. “We need to conduct tests on fish. But we don’t have expert in Jamnagar. So, I have asked to search for some experts in Rajkot or Ahmedabad to know the exact reason for fish deaths.”
 
 
