Chennai: The collective   sale in the Tamil Nadu State Marketing Corporation Limited (Tasmac) outlets this year jumped by 7% on the eve of   when compared with the revenue generated by liquor shops during the harvest festival last year. 

 However, the overall volume of sale dropped marginally by 0.3%.
 
 According to sources, outlets across the state witnessed sale to the tune approximately Rs 127 crore on January 14, while the day ahead of Pongal recorded sale of Rs 92 crore totalling to Rs 219 crore over the two days. 
 
 Though the sale of beer has increased by 10%, sale of Indian Made Foreign Liquor ( ) dipped by 2%, the source added. In contrast, during Pongal season in 2017 Tasmac outlets collected a total of Rs 204 crore.
 
 “The major factor for revenue going up by around Rs 15 crore was due to price revision which came into effect last year. But, Tasmac outlets should have generated an additional income of Rs 6 crore had the same volume of liquor been sold. This shows that there was drop by around 0.3% when compared with the sale during the two days of Pongal season last year,” a Tasmac source, who is privy to developments, told TOI.
 
 Tasmac officials attribute the decrease in volume to closure of liquor shops due to the state government’s policy to shut 1,000 shops and the Supreme Court’s ban on liquor vends within 500 metres of national and state highways.
 
 “For instance, in terms of volume, sales in North Chennai Tasmac shops have fallen by 10%, from 8,200 cases of liquor to 7,200 cases. Nearly 35 shops have been closed in the neighouring Tiruvalur East district comprising suburbs including Ambattur, Avadi and Poonamallee. This has reflected on the volume of sale,” another official said.
 
  Last October, the state government had increased the price of all IMFL brands to Rs 10 and Rs 12 per 180 ml bottle. Of the 6,000 odd liquor outlets that were functioning two years ago, only 4,500 shops are currently operating in the state.
 
 A similar trend was witnessed during the New Year weekend this year, wherein an increase of nearly 10% was reported when compared to the same period in 2017.
 
 
