PATNA: Students of   gheraoed education minister   on college premises on Friday demanding re-evaluation of answer sheets of second year undergraduate examinations, the results of which were announced by the   in the third week of April.

 The incident took place soon after the minister stepped out the college building after attending a function. Verma was cornered by the students and members of students’ association of the college, which now comes under  .
 
 Komal Trivedi, a third year student of physics department, said she got only 16 marks in physics. “How can it be possible? I attempted all the questions and was expecting more than 60 marks. We have urged the principal to ensure re-evaluation of the answer sheets.”
 
 The students, who were over 400 in number, also demanded construction of a common room and washrooms for girls in each floor, increase in the height of the college boundary wall and deployment of security personnel at the main gate of the college. The students, who also alleged shortage of classrooms, were seen raising slogans against the college administration, MU and the state government.
 
 Kumari Shalini, a second year student of history department, said there were no proper security arrangements in the college. “I have seen boys peeping through the college boundary and passing indecent comments at girls,” she added.
 
 “We have shortage of classrooms. In science block, there are only four classrooms, which are being shared by four departments – zoology, chemistry, botany and physics. There is only one washroom in the college and that’s too on the third floor,” said nigar Khan, a third year chemistry student.
 
 College principal   blamed the MU for the “erroneous” results. “The university had hired an agency to upload the results to its website. The employees of the agency committed mistakes while uploading the results. The constituent colleges are now facing the heat,” he said, adding the college favoured re-evaluation of the answer sheets.
 
 
