MUMBAI: A state government plan to introduce a   to ban   joints across the state is in the final stages. The bill is expected to be on the lines of the law in Gujarat. The government is studying the way   went about it. The government inGujarat had initially issued an ordinance and then gone on to move a bill, which was passed by the legislature in December 2016. The bill was subsequently submitted to the President for the final nod, which it received in July 2017.

 Of late, there has been an outcry against hookah parlours in the state, especially in the city. Today there are no laws on hookahs at commercial places and many hotels, eating houses and smoking zones within popular joints offer customers the service. The city has over 127 hookah parlours running without permission, said a BMC official.
 
 
 BJP MLA Mangal Prabhat Lodha even moved a private member’s bill on it during the winter session of the state legislative assembly in Nagpur. It is yet to be discussed. “Hookah is more dangerous than a cigarette. I am pressing for a complete   on it in the state to save our future generations,” said Lodha.
 
 Recently, mayor Vishwanath Mahadeshwar met the police commissioner and demanded a ban on hookah parlours in the city. Former mayor Shubha Raul had also and met the then President Pratibha Patil for a hookah ban. A senior official said the government was on the verge of reaching a decision to prohibit hookahs across the state. “We are working on the bill now, which may be tabled before the legislature in the   session to seek a complete ban on hookahs,” the official said.
 
 “The bill will be on the lines of the law brought about by the Gujarat government, though the government is yet to decide on the quantum of punishment. But the fine would be hefty so that no one would dare to run a hookah parlour even illegally,” an official said.
 
 Gujarat amended the Cigarettes and Other Tobacco Products  , 2003, a central law, to include hookah bars in the prohibited category. The Supreme Court in December 2014 struck down the ban on sale and use of hookah in hotels, restaurants and even airports where smoking is otherwise legally permitted.
 
