GUNTUR: While the rank and file of TRS were celebrating the party supremo Kalvakuntla   birthday in Telangana, a man from Andhra Pradesh surprised everyone by organising a grand celebration on KCR’s birthday.

 Sheikh Khadeer, who owns a jewellery shop at Tenali in Guntur district, is an ardent fan of KCR. He is the founder-president of   Seva Foundation, and this is the second year he celebrated the birthday of Telangana chief minister.
 
 Not limiting the celebrations to simply cutting a cake, he donated clothes to around 200 elderly poor in the town, and arranged food for them at Mother Teresa Asram. When contacted, Khadeer said he admires KCR for his perseverance and the fight he put up to make the dream of separate Telangana state a reality.
 
 “Last year, we celebrated KCR’s birthday by offering food to about 100 poor people. But this year, we wanted to make it bigger, to send a message to the politicians of Andhra Pradesh,” he said. Khadeer said the politicians from Andhra Pradesh should take inspiration from KCR in achieving special category status to the state.
 
 “This celebration is also a protest against the political leaders of Andhra Pradesh for their failure to fight for the interest of the state,” he said. Khadeer said he does not have affiliations with any party. He has put up a huge banner in Tenali town wishing KCR on his birthday. Meanwhile, KCR’s birthday was celebrated on a grand scale by TRS leaders and cadres in the city and districts on Saturday. 
 
 President Ramnath Kovind, Prime Minister  , governor ESL Narasimhan and AP chief minister Chandrababu Naidu were among those who wished KCR. 
 
 The chief minister met several ministers, MLAs, MPs, officials and party leaders at Pragathi Bhavan. He also offered puja at the Maisamma temple on Pragathi Bhavan in the morning.
 
 An 11-year-old boy, Vignesh, from Warangal, who had desired to meet KCR, was personally invited to Pragathi Bhavan where he met him with his parents. The CM said that the government would bear the expenditure for the boy’s treatment.
 
 KCR’s daughter and Nizamabad MP Kalvakuntla Kavitha cut a cake for him at Telangana Bhavan in Jubilee Hills. With a band playing music enlivening the atmosphere, party workers took part in the celebrations. Minister Talasani Srinivas Yadav, MLC Karne Prabhakar, government whip in council  , TRS Vidyarthi Vibhagam leader Gellu Srinivas Yadav and MLC Prof M Srinivas Reddy were present.
 
 KCR Seva Dalam organised a blood donation camp at the party office. An eye check-up camp was organised at Arts College on Osmania University campus. Celebrations were also organised at Jal Vihar on  
 
