HYDERABAD : A letter written by a principal district and sessions judge (PDJ) to the   has resulted in the higher court taking a deeper look at how the states of   and   are paying compensation to farmers whose land has been acquired. In the process, it came to the fore that there are as many as 3,032 cases in both the states where farmers are running from pillar to post to get their promised money. The worst of the districts are Mahabubnagar, Kurnool and East Godavari, where farmers have not received a single paise for years.

 The judge, G Venkata Krishnaiah, who is currently working as Metropolitan Sessions Judge of Hyderabad, wrote the letter during his earlier stint as   PDJ. Addressed to the HC’s judicial registrar, the letter narrated how several farmers are being forced to file execution petitions (EPs) before the district courts seeking implementation of land acquisition awards. These awards were passed by the revenue authorities fixing compensation to be paid to the farmers for the land that was taken away from them.
  
  
 “There are as many as 1,204 EPs pending with courts in Mahabubnagar district alone. Even though successive district collectors have written letters to the state authorities seeking release of money, there is no progress,” Krishnaiah said in the letter. Though Article 300A of the Constitution and the   recognises right to property as a constitutional and fundamental right, the authorities are violating it.
 
 The HC thought it fit to have a macro view on the issue and summoned similar details from all the districts in the two states. This led to the startling revelation that 2,003 such cases are pending in Telangana and 1,029 in AP.
 
 The HC took up the case as a Public Interest Petition on its own by converting Krishnaiah’s letter into a PIL. It has made 50 top authorities as respondents to the case, including all the district collectors, chief secretaries, finance secretaries and revenue secretaries in charge of land acquisition. The HC, it can be recalled, had warned both the states that it will prevent them from acquiring land unless they first compensate the farmers.
 
 
