CHENNAI : An alliance with Rajinikanth seems unlikely, Kamal Haasan declared during an interaction with students and members of the Indian community at   in the US on Sunday. “Rajini and I can be friends. But he seems to have taken on a hue. I hope that hue is not saffron,” he said, probably alluding to the ‘spiritual politics’ that Rajinikanth promised to practise after announcing his plunge on December 31 last year.

 Taking a jibe at the Hindu right-wing, Kamal wondered why some in   were suddenly taking umbrage to things that had existed for the last 50 years. “Why are we regressing to fundamentalism when we should be going ahead. Why are we allowing it to happen in Tamil Nadu of all the places?” Stating that a partnership with Rajini would have to be a “true alliance” and not part of a tacit understanding, he said, “I will have to wait for Rajini’s party manifesto. Mine will be out on February 21.”
 
 
 Proclaiming to be a ‘polity culturist’ keen on challenging the status quo and polity mediocrity plaguing the state, the 63-year-old said, “There are three big issues plaguing TN — apathy of the political class, its inability to manage our waterways, and the gradual lowering of the bar in every aspect of society, be it education, skilldevelopment, healthcare, social justice or job creation.”
 
 
 
 
 
 TN’s poor financial health — the revenue deficit was at an all time high of Rs 160 billion and gross   Rs 405 billion (the third largest in the country in 2016-17) was driven by Ineffective public spending, lethargy, and a lack of vision by the people in office.
 
 Raising similiarities with Gandhi’s vision of selfreliant villages, Kamal said he wanted to adopt a village in every district to make them economically, ecologically, sociologically and technologically self-sustainable. “Education, skill development and healthcare will be our focus. We will begin with one village which will become a model for the others,” said Kamal.
 
 “Money I can raise. I am confident of that. I want your ideas, time and participation to reimagine TN villages. My political campaign begins here with an aspiration of forming a brain trust with my Tamil men and women,” he said.
 
 While Kamal launched www.maiam.com for recruitment of volunteers, corporates/agencies (as part of their CSR), NGOs and resident welfare associations, Rajinikanth launched www.rajinimandram.org on January 1to expand his support base.
 
 While Rajinikanth has set a goal of getting 1.6 crore supporters (five lakh in each of the 32 districts in TN), Kamal said he already had “10 lakh hard-core workers on his side” who have been serving in Kamal Haasan Narpani Iyakkam (social service movement).
 
