NEW DELHI: The AAP government’s   with the   saw yet another flashpoint on Thursday when the former declared a high-level   formed by lieutenant governor Anil   to prepare a framework for installing, operating and monitoring   cameras in the city as   and, thus, “null and void”. 

 Principal secretary (home) Manoj Parida, who was appointed chairman of the committee and asked by LG to submit his report within 30 days, has now been directed by PWD minister Satyendar Jain not to proceed with the task. Deputy chief minister Manish Sisodia called the committee “unconstitutional” and alleged that LG was trying to “obstruct” the CCTV project for which almost all formalities had been completed and the work order was likely to be given soon.
 
 “LG wants to form the standard operating procedure without talking to the elected government. This is an attempt to put the project in cold storage. The committee was formed under a conspiracy to stop the work on (the) CCTV project,” the deputy chief minister said at a press conference where he advised LG to focus on law and order rather than “halting” projects of the  .
 
 The development coincides with Jain shooting off a strongly worded letter to LG on Thursday. He wrote: “The committee set up by you is illegal, unconstitutional and has been set up with the sole objective of obstructing the CCTV project.” He pointed out that “under the Constitution, LG’s job is to do good policing and prevent crime. Please concentrate on your job. It is the elected government’s job to install CCTV cameras. Please allow us to do our job”. Jain continued in the same vein: “You have sought to stretch the logic that CCTV is covered under law and order. By that logic, anything and everything will be covered under law and order.”
 
 The tussle over this particular issue has been continuing for some time. Last month, the lieutenant governor held a meeting with officers of Delhi government officers and Delhi Police on the project status. The meeting prompted sharp reaction from the government, with Sisodia calling it “overstepping of the constitutional jurisdiction” by LG.
 
 Installing CCTV cameras in the city was one of AAP’s key pre-poll promises. Though the project has progressed at snail’s space, the government in February finalised a concessionaire to install 1.4 lakh CCTV cameras in different parts of the city. In 2015, cabinet approval was given to a Rs 130-crore project, the cost of which spiked to Rs 571.40 crore in 2018. This gave the Opposition ammunition to attack the AAP government. The project is now in the final stages of being awarded. 
 
 In his letter to LG, Jain pointed out that CCTV cameras were being successfully installed in the New Delhi Municipal Council areas. Under this model, RWAs, police, local residents and the company installing the cameras together decide the locations. “We will borrow NDMC’s standard operating procedure and the implementation model rather than inventing a new one,” Jain wrote.
 
 The LG office didn’t respond to calls and SMSes from TOI over the issue. 
 
 
