PATNA: The  , an art village created inside  , could not survive the onslaught of urbanization and cultural changes that led to the decline in demand for traditional artwork and handicrafts. The labourers on Sunday were dislocating bamboo sticks and dismantling the stalls on Sunday evening. The haat’s entrance was locked up. 

 It was back in October 2017 when the Patna Haat was launched as a hub for traditional art and crafts in 3,600 square feet area of Gandhi Maidan. As many as 50 stalls displaying a wide variety of handmade crafts, including Sikki and Khatwa works,   silk, Madhubani paintings, Tikuli art paintings, stone craft, bamboo craft, Manjusha paintings, jute craft, wood craft, terracotta, lac bangles, lahthi work, brass items, Sujni embroidery, bawan buti and papier mache items were showcased in the haat to grab the attention of visitors. The haat also had various food courts for residents to hang around and savour the traditional food of Bihar. But their overall business was not enough to maintain the survival of this trend for long term.
 
 Sri Krishna Smarak Vikas Samiti, which looks after the maintenance of Gandhi Maidan, cancelled the contract for Patna Haat. The samiti head and Patna divisional commissioner Anand Kishor said a notice was issued on April 16 to the agency for removing the stalls because it had failed to pay the money. “All the stipulations were already made clear. We asked the shopkeepers to wind up the stalls when the company,  , failed to pay the amount within the given time period.” He said the samiti has also claimed a revenue loss of Rs5 lakh for the cancellation of the agreement with the company.
 
 “The agency was supposed to deposit the money, but it failed to do so; otherwise, we would have not made such a move. The total cost of setting up these stalls was Rs35 lakh, but it failed to survive even for one year. We were so badly hit by revenue losses that we decided to cancel the work order,” Kishor said.
 
 “It was the revival of forgotten traditions and also a great platform for the artisans to put up their skills before people, directly,” said one of the visitors, Akriti Trivedi.
 
 
