JAIPUR: In order to promote startups, the state education department will provide financial and incubation assistance to Class XI and XII students enrolled in government schools for enhancing innovation and developing business ideas. The department will give Rs 5,000 assistance to best project in the school along with helping them in providing bank loans.

 Education minister Vasudev   on the sidelines of ‘National Science Conclave 2018’ at MNIT, says, “Enterprising is in the air in  . We are making consistent efforts to provide an ecosystem for students to become job creators rather job seekers. Such efforts will accelerate the growth of the state and the nation." 
 
 He underlined the need of innovation in rural areas. "The innovation and enterprising in areas including water scarcity, women empowerment, cleanliness, transport and alternate energy modes can bring a much needed change in the rural areas of Rajasthan. Students displaying excellence in these fields will be acknowledged and rewarded by the state," said Devnani. 
 
 The conclave at MNIT saw business models based on innovation intending to make life easier for the populace in rural Rajasthan. The first day on Friday saw models in the category of water scarcity, e-governance and women empowerment. A car run by air attracted much attention in the conclave. Rishipal Singh of Central University Mahendragarh in   is a team leader who created this vehicle by modifying  .
 
 "This is indigenously done by my team in limited resources. We have removed the car engine so make it more lighter and put used light engines to utilise the energy generated out of air. This car can solve the problem of rural areas by providing them clean and cheap means of transport system,” said Singh.
 
 He is hoping to receive funding from the government to see his machine being used by people in the rural areas. The best models will be incubated by the MNIT incubation cell.   Science Conclave organised by Udaan Foundation in association with MNIT in Jaipur.
 
 
