NEW DELHI: The inquiry committee of   found a faculty member guilty of   of a   from another university. The panel, in its report dated February 20, 2018, a copy of which is with TOI, advised   Lawrence Liang,  , Governance and Citizenship, to relinquish his administrative position and not take up any duties for two years. It also said that there would be serious consequences for the professor should any more complaints be filed against him in the future. Liang said he could not comment on the matter as the enquiry process wasn’t fully over yet. 

 On October 10, 2017, a student filed a complaint with the AUD’s Committee for Prevention of Sexual Harassment (CPSH) alleging sexual harassment at the hands of the professor in 2015-16 when he was not a faculty at the university but visiting Delhi for a conference. Both were then completing their doctorate programmes. At one of their meetings between April 8 and April 15, 2015, Liang had “forcibly kissed and groped her on two occasions” despite her objections, the complaint said.
 
 The complainant also charged that “Liang continued to send her ‘unwelcome text messages’ and that he again kissed her when he was dropping her home after a group dinner on February 27, 2016, during another of his trips to the city.”
 
 A member of the inquiry committee said that the procedure took about a month “during which testimonials were taken of the complainant, the professor and a witness”. “We have decided to bar the professor from any administrative duties,” the member said. 
 
 While the committee has asked Liang to undergo a suitable course on sexual harassment at the workplace, and to give an undertaking to conduct himself properly, Liang told TOI said that “the process is not over and I am bound by confidentiality, hence I cannot offer comments”.
 
 The inquiry committee’s report said that in his deposition Liang did agree that he had met and kissed the girl, but claimed that there was “a physical ease between them” and that when she objected, he had “apologised”. Liang told the panel that he felt that the two had a “friendly relationship” and described it as “mutual attraction” and a “borderline romance”.
 
 The student lodged the complaint after learning of similar incidents involving Liang with other women in September 2017. The complainant managed to find a witness, an ex-colleague of Liang in Bengaluru, who testified that the professor had harassed other women in the past.
 
 The process came under a cloud for a short time when a student representative with CPSH objected to the absence of a student member in the five-member inquiry committee and raised questions over the delay in the filing of the complaint and the initiation of the investigation.
 
 Unhappy at the punishment meted out to Liang, the complainant has written to CPSH, claiming that it had treated her trauma casually and “it is barely doing justice to what the panel members had promised to me at the beginning of the inquiry”.
 
 
