BHOPAL: Getting degree after failing in theory exam may be unheard of at other educational campuses. But it is so at the engineering college of   (BUIT). Realising the mistake, BUIT authorities have requested the university to amend the ordinance to rectify the mistake. 

 
 The BUIT was established in 1997 and since then several hundred degrees have been issued. The issue came to the surface last year after several complaints were made.
 
 As per existing rule, students just need to score 33 marks out of 100 in a paper. One paper comprises 60 marks of theory and 40 of external. "A student, who fails theory paper, but scores 33 marks in external is termed as pass in that paper," said a senior teaching faculty of BUIT without quoting his name.
 
 BUIT director Ashwini   confirmed to TOI that he approached the university officials for amending the ordinance. "This is a peculiar situation. I had never seen anything like this in my life. I was also shocked when I came to know students are clearing exam by scoring passing marks in one paper," Wangneo said. 
 
 He said, "I have prepared a draft of the proposed ordinance with proposed changes. It will be submitted to the registrar soon," said Wangneo. As about changes to be made in the ordinance, he said, "Now, students will be required to clear exams in theory as well as external." 
 
 About students, who had cleared exams in past over the rule, Wangneo said, "I can't comment on it as it was done when I was not the director of BUIT. I have immediately informed higher authorities." 
 
 Last month, angry over delay in exams and implementing a rule - scoring minimum 5 pointers in semesters without prior intimation- students of (BUIT) had locked main gate for an hour. Upon learning about the incident, authorities had rushed and removed agitating students as an exam was to start from noon. Irked students had lodged a complaint with   in this regard. Around 30 such students were not allowed to appear for the exam. 
 
 About the issue, Wangneo said, "Again I would say the same thing. I can't help whatever wrong was done in the past. I have added this part in the ordinance also again students scoring less than five pointers should not be allowed to appear for the exam. 
 
 
