DUBAI: "
 ."

 
 When you hear such frenetic commentary in an equally pulsating environment, that moment simply stands head and shoulders above the rest. Commentary – a term that we all, as fan of sports, have held very dearly to us. We have at least once thought about doing live commentary at some stage in our lives, if not pursuing it as a career. To feel the rush of adrenaline, to become the next big voice of the industry, to finally be associated with the sport we love in some capacity or merely with the hope of someday having a Wikipedia page named on us.
 
 
 
 Being a play-by-play announcer requires more than a great set of lungs and an encyclopaedic memory, an art that   has perfected. At every big international   event, his familiar face with microphone in hand graces the stage. He wakes up way before any rider or journalist, and gets his paperwork sorted. If you can't already place his signature energised, British tones in your head, think of James Michael Tyler, who was cast as Gunther in the hit sitcom FRIENDS, whom McCrossan remotely resembles. Just that McCrossan has to speak more in 30 seconds than Tyler did in 10 seasons.
 
 
 
 
 
 Life outside the commentary box is all dreamy, but inside is where the true madness brews. And McCrossan not only revels at it each day, he marvels at it; perhaps the reason why he has tasted a slice of history as a cycling commentator cum broadcaster by becoming the first English speaking commentator at the Milano San Remo, the 95th Giro d'Italia and the il Lombardia, and has come to be known as the "Voice of International Cycling" by many big shots. 
 
 "I am a speaker and I love doing this because you can really feel the fans. You can see straightaway, if the fans engaged, and are they enjoying themselves. You can create the atmosphere and I love doing that," McCrossan tells TOI Sports in an exclusive chat. "Cycling is enthralling; it keeps people on their toes. Sometimes, the kind of things that these riders do is simply breathtaking; it makes the hair on the back of your neck stand. This sport is all about how much of it you can bring to life and I try my best to do it."
 
 McCrossan boasts a resume that would many commentators and announcers envy. Across a span of 18 years, he has commentated live and voiced over thousands of hours on TV. He has done it all – covered The Tour De France, Giro, Vuelta a Espana, Tour of California and every major classic multiple times. He has been the voice of the London Cycle Show, London Bike Show, has hosted the studio at Interbike in Vegas and has interviewed most of the world's top riders. The list just goes on.
 
  
  
 
 "I did loads of local races for a really long time. I didn't ever dream I'd be the first English speaker of the Giro d'Italia. If you want to do it, learn and listen. And that' what I've always done," he says."It's the little things that make a difference. You have to be sure how to do the protocol, the presentations, how to make sure you don't get the names wrong, of the riders, the dignitaries because that affects the race, the sponsors and all that. I think more than having a good voice, proper diction and knowledge, all these aspects remain the key."
 
 And to think that McCrossan's first gig as a commentator was a stroke of luck. It's an interesting story as he puts it. In his teenage years, McCrossan would ride as an amateur for his local club Velo Club Venta in Winchester before in one of the races that was organised by his father, the announcer had a stage fright, out of nowhere. He handed over the microphone to McCrossan Sr. Saying he just can't do it. That is when Young Anthony filled in, in front of 2000 odd people. He picked up the microphone and did commentary for that and other races of the event. And that was it. Someone else heard him and it opened a gate of opportunities. He would do some local races, the local track league where there would be just 10 people watching. But bit by bit, he started enjoying those as well.
 
 "Euro Sport asked me to come by one day, suddenly because all their league commentators such as David Duffield and Mike Smith and a few others, somehow one by one, they all had to go home or got ill or something or the other. They asked people if they knew another sidekick commentator and my name came up. I got asked to go to Paris and do a live broadcast. And then once I'd done that, it helped. Once you've done television, then I guess people hear you and you start to get a bit more work," he says.
 
 The task of performing both live and recorded broadcasts is never easy, but over the years McCrossan has adapted to the challenges well. 60 percent of his work is being a race speaker while the remaining 40 percent is that of a commentator. And these are two totally different jobs. Being a TV broadcaster requires you to think; because the fans cannot be felt, and you have to bring the race to life. The broadcaster knows that people are watching across the world demands narrating a story in a way everyone in front of the TV sets can relate to. And that's not even it.
 
 "You have to think about other factors: the graphics that are being played. If you're at a commercial station, someone is at your ears telling you it's time to go to a commercial break. It's much more predictable. You have to be flexible and you have to change to a scenario. For example, I do my homework on what I have to ask these stars. Some days the guys are under stress; they don't want to talk to you. On other days, they'll react in a good way and sometimes they have a good laugh. So it's a mix of being emotional and passionate about the race, and that is where you need to strike a balance."
 
 Easier said than done, especially when the finish line is approaching and people hold their breaths. At times, the performance is so thrilling that it is understandable to get carried away with emotions. During one of the finishes, his fellow broadcaster mentioned that McCrossan went for over a minute without taking a pause. To control that excitement and maintain the fine line between injecting thrill and getting carried away is a technique McCrossan has aced.
 
 "I see that being a race speaker is almost like a concert in some ways. If you peak really earlier, like 30 kms to go, then you have nowhere to go. You're finished, your voice will hold out. You then have nothing else to give the fans. Generally, I build the race up. I do very few updates when I'm a race speaker until about 40 kms to go," he says. "I play with the music, the crowd, the emotion. And I really only let it go like a kilometer or two to go, because that's the time when you need to hit it. You have to hold back. And you learn that over time. When I was 25, I'd have hit it at 25 kms to go and tried to hold onto it. I don't do that anymore."
 
 One of the bigger challenges for a commentator/broadcaster is to keep the fan in him alive, but again not so much at the same time. Almost all commentators have faced the heat of being indifferent towards different athletes across various sports. And Cycling is no different. There have been occasions where McCrossan was on the verge of letting the emotions get the better of him but managed to keep it together.
 
 "For me, as a speaker or commentator, the athletes are the stars. They're the ones you have to give the opportunity to speak and talk and performing. And you cannot be a fan of one rider. There are the occasional moments, when a certain rider who excites you more than others. When Cavendish was winning a lot of his stage wins, when you see him burst out of the pack when he was younger, that gives you Goosebumps. Contador's just retired but the electricity in the commentary box when he used to go for the attack is just something special. So yes, there are some riders who excite you more in a way but you try and treat all of them the same," McCrossan says.
 
 By his own admission, the fact that McCrossan himself has been a rider gives him that advantage, to understand the sport better and bring the race to life. So it is really important to have been a rider yourself to become a successful figure behind the mic?
 
 "I think cycling can be kind of different in that respect because the races are so long that you need to have an analyst so you have to have someone with you. You'll always find that we've got someone with us who can bring the analysis and stuff. And there are commentators who have not been riders. Ned Boulting is a good example. He's not been a rider but he is able to tell the story as a journalist and he's got a good voice. So cycling does allow people who've got the passion about it," he says.
 
 Outside of cycling, McCrossan has ventured into running commentary, and admits he sometimes does commentary even when he is out for morning walks alone. He's had many unforgettable moments as a broadcaster, which is obviously expected. But the one moment that stands out for him was to do speak on the mic during the London Olympics 2012, at a packed Velodrome. 
 
 "It was in my country so it was very emotional to be there and it was really special to be part of it. The noise in the Velodrome was so loud that I kept asking the engineers to check my headphones because I thought something was wrong. But actually it was the amount of noise that kept coming through the headphones, the shake and the rumble at the Velodrome was something I can never forget," he reminisces. "I just hope I could go on the next time Olympics returns to London." 
 
 Absolutely no reason to believe why he can't.
 
