Mysuru: Members of a non-governmental organisation (NGO) have lodged a complaint against a few members of the  , including corporator Prashanth for allegedly   them while they were holding   to provide jobs at the Freedom Fighters’ Park on Thursday.

 An argument ensued between the corporator and organizers over putting up a banner that later took ugly turn with people from both the sides manhandling each other. A member of the NGO was injured in the melee, leading to a tense atmosphere prevailing at the park. Police rushed to the spot to pacify members of both groups, and the banner in question was removed.
 
 In his complaint, the NGO founder Mishra said that they were holding a campaign at the park, at whose entrance large banners reading, ‘No job, No vote’ were put up, alongside photographs of chief minister   in the background. The organizers have put up banners with slogans against the state government for its failure to provide jobs in Mysuru.
 
 Police said that they had received a   against   Prashanth and his followers from NGO, which has its office in Bengaluru. “We are looking into the matter,” police said.
 
 However, corporator Prashanth denied allegations of manhandling the NGO members, and said he too had lodged a complaint against organizer for conducting an even without obtaining necessary permission, and speaking about elected representatives in a rude manner. “When I was passing by the park, I noticed the banners with the posters of CM at the entrance,” Prashanth said.
 
 The corporator said that, while had no objections to the campaign, he asked the organizers to remove the banner that portrayed the CM in a bad light. “All of a sudden, the organisers started questioning me in Hindi, and in a high-pitched voice and people soon gathered around us. The public who gathered around were also irked by their behaviour, and questioned them. They started manhandling one another, and a man may have sustained injuries in the confusion,” added Prashanth.
 
 Deputy Commissioner of police (law and order), Mysuru N Vishnuvardhana said, “We have received a petition from Mishra against Congress corporator Prashanth, and his followers. The petition states that they were manhandled during a protest. We are looking into allegations by both parties involved.”
 
 
