While almost everyone who has been at the centre of a big fat Indian wedding will rate it as one of the most overwhelming and physically draining experiences of all time,  , who wed businessman-beau Anand Ahuja in a three-day celebration earlier this month, has already moved on to regular programming.

 While she has a new film — 'Veere Di Wedding' — coming up, all everyone wants to know is where she is going for her honeymoon. “I don’t blame anybody and try to keep it as classy as possible. During film promotions, it’s just a lot to take in. It’s stressful to face all the media at once. Otherwise, I am oblivious to everything,” the 32-year-old actress says, dismissing rumours that she and Anand are headed to Greece. “We will go on our honeymoon by October-end or November. We want to go someplace warm but haven’t finalised the destination yet.”
 
  
  
 After 'Veere Di Wedding' hits screens on June 1, she has 15 days of work pending on Shelly Chopra Dhar’s ' ', in which she shares screen space with father Anil Kapoor for the first time. Then, she kicks off Abhishek Sharma’s 'The Zoya Factor', which is based on Anuja Chauhan’s eponymous bestseller. “I really have a lot of work coming up. The Zoya Factor will be filmed for three months straight, from August to October,” she informs.
 
 Chauhan’s 2008 novel follows a Rajput girl named Zoya Singh Solanki who meets the Indian cricket team through her job as an executive in an advertising agency and ends up becoming a lucky charm for them for the 2011 World Cup. “I love the sport, but now, there is too much to follow with the Premier League and I’ve lost touch over the years,” she says. When she wondered if she should brush up her knowledge for the film, she was asked not to. “Zoya doesn’t like cricket. She has a different perspective on it and sage advice to give to the team,” the actress notes, adding that she will focus on learning more about being an “addy” (slang for an advertising executive) instead.
 
 Sonam goes on to reveal that she was offered the Hindi remake of Mani Ratnam’s Tamil romance, 'OK Kanmani', which was directed by his protégé Shaad Ali. Coincidentally, the original had featured  , who is now paired opposite Zoya as Nikhil Khoda, captain of the cricket team and her biggest detractor.
 
 In 'Veere Di Wedding', Sonam takes centrestage alongside Swara Bhaskar, Shikha Talsania and   Khan. The film notably sees its female protagonists drinking, smoking, cussing and asking each another if they “want some boom boom”. Sonam is not surprised that women of all age groups have loved the teasers and says that her 61-year-old father is the biggest cheerleader of the film. “And mind you, he didn’t have as many nice things to say about Khoobsurat (her last home production),” Sonam chuckles, adding, “Most women will enjoy the film because it depicts most women or what they want to be. Most of them want to see themselves having fun.” The   directorial is also different in that it is the first film to feature two A-list, married actresses. Sonam recalls that her younger sister  , who has produced the film alongside  , was willing to shoot right through Kareena’s pregnancy as well. “There was never a question about doing the film with any other actress,” Sonam asserts.
 
 The film was expected to go on the floors in early 2016, when Kareena announced that she was expecting. After welcoming   in December, she began prepping for the part, which involved a four-month-long weight loss regime. Shooting commenced nearly 18 months later than originally planned. “We were very open to shooting with Kareena even when she was pregnant. Unfortunately, you cannot get insurance if you’re pregnant and making a film without insurance is impossible. We did not know about this before,” Sonam reveals. “As women, we need to stand by each other in every way possible. After Kareena said ‘yes’ to Veere Di Wedding, there were other actresses who wanted to do the role and we could have gone ahead with anybody else. But she was the best fit for the role, the first choice, and an irreplaceable part of the film. Someone as committed and talented as she is, deserves a team that waits for her,” Sonam says.
 
 What was it like being directed by a man on a film that is about women and produced by women? “It was Shashanka who came up with the idea with Rhea and they conceptualised it together. He has directed me in Khoobsurat, but first and foremost, he’s the creator of one of my all-time favourite films, Quick Gun Murugan. He’s a master of dramedies. You’ll know when you see our new film,” Sonam signs off.
  
  
 
