PATNA: The   ( ) election will be held on February 17, five years after the last election was held in December 2012.

 Announcing the poll schedule, PU vice-chancellor   said on Wednesday the electoral process would start on February 3 with the publication of draft electoral roll. Corrections, if any, will be made till 2pm on February 5, and the revised electoral roll will be published the same day.
 
 Nomination papers for various PUSU offices will be filed on February 7 and 8. The scrutiny of nomination papers will be held on February 9 and the list of candidates will be published the same day. 
 
 Withdrawal of nominations will be allowed till 3pm on February 10. Voting will be held from 8 am to 2 pm on February 17, which will be followed by counting of votes and declaration of results.
 
 There are five key PUSU posts, including president, vice-president, secretary, joint secretary and treasurer. Besides, class representatives will be elected by the electorate of the respective constituencies in colleges and PG departments.
 
 There will be one representative for every 1,000 students, and all these representatives along with the five office-bearers will form the PUSU cabinet.
 
 The VC said the candidates would have to observe the code of conduct prescribed in the statutes based on the Lyngdoh committee report. Wall writing and use of printed materials for campaigning is not allowed. The candidates cannot organize feast or party in course of the election. Any candidate found violating the code of conduct will be debarred from contesting the election.
 
 Students who have been charge-sheeted or convicted in any criminal case will not be eligible to contest the PUSU election.
 
 PU has asked its colleges to provide fixed spaces on their campuses for sticking posters and bills. The university may organize a presidential debate prior to the polling if contestants make a demand for it.
 
 It may be recalled governor-cum-chancellor   has asked all the universities in the state to conduct student union elections by the end of February. PU has become the first to announce the election schedule. The examinations of some courses may be rescheduled owing to the elections.
 
 
