AURANGABAD: Getting its act together on the solid waste management of the city, the Aurangabad Municipal Corporation ( ) has issued notices to the bulk waste generators asking them to do waste treatment in-house. 

 The civic body will stop collecting waste from them and impose penalties if the institutions fail to set up   units within their premises, the notice reads. The notice has been issued to private as well as government establishments.
 
 According to the solid waste management (SWM) rules 2016, any institution that generates solid waste of more than 100 kg a day falls in the category of bulk waste generators. The rules state that all resident welfare and market associations, all gated communities and institutions with more than 5,000 sq metre area and all hotels and restaurants should partner with the local body for waste management.
 
 They must segregate waste at source, facilitate collection of the garbage, handover recyclable material to waste pickers. The biodegradable waste shall be processed, treated and disposed of through composting or bio-methanation within the premises as far as possible, the rules state.
 
 Notably, following the closure of Naregaon dumping yard, a month ago, the AMC has been facing a waste management crisis. After failing to secure another site for dumping, the corporation is now focusing on minimising the waste collection and thereby expediting its treatment.
 
 Ward officer (Zone A) Bhalchandra Paithane has written to the   and Hospital (GMCH), Government Cancer Hospital, residential societies, restaurants that fall within the zone to cooperate with the AMC in following the waste management rules. 
 
 “These institutions are expected to adhere to the rules straightaway. If they do not comply with the SWM rules 2016, they will be penalised as stated in the rules,” Paithane told TOI.
 
 The GMCH generates six to seven tonnes of solid waste daily, while the government cancer hospital produces around two tonnes of solid waste every day.
 
 GMCH medical superintendent   confirmed that the hospital has adhered to the directives given by ward officer Paithane and is taking care of the waste generated at the hospital. “The treatment and processing has not yet started on the waste. We have called an in-house meeting to begin segregation, processing and scientific disposal of the waste,” Sonawane told TOI.
 
 
