MUMBAI: Former India wicketkeeper and   GM (operations)   wants the senior   management to submit tour reviews regularly to be assessed by the   ( ). Karim has already conveyed it to the team management, sources told TOI.

 
 
 
 However, this request from Karim has not gone down well with the Indian team management, which has serious reservations over sending a report to CAC. The team management is clear that it is answerable only to the Committee of Administrators (CoA) - under the present directives of the Supreme Court as far as day-to-day functioning is concerned - and the office-bearers of the BCCI.
 
 Secondly, they have “no clue whatsoever” whether the CAC - comprising legends Sachin Tendulkar, Sourav Ganguly and VVS Laxman - continues to exist in any capacity after the selection of the national coach that took place last year in controversial circumstances.
 
 
 
 TOI sent out questions to both members of CoA - Vinod Rai and Diana Eduljee - categorically asking if the CAC continues to exist in its present form or has been disbanded but got no reply until late Friday evening.
 
 “If there has to be a committee in place on these lines, then the authority of such a committee has to be spelt out. That aside, there’s no place for any honorary position when every other position supplementing the Indian team is a paid one. Selectors are paid, so are groundsmen, support staff, coaches etc. Why should any committee (CAC here) work on an honorary basis without specific work guidelines being listed out?” a BCCI source said.
 
 The CoA has clearly stayed away from coming out with an official line on whether the CAC exists. “In that light, Karim writing to the team management about tour reviews that need to be assessed by CAC doesn’t make sense,” sources said.
 
 As far as tour reviews are concerned, it’s been a long-maintained tradition of team managers carrying out the responsibility from time to time. For this purpose alone, the CoA had specifically brought out an advertisement for the role of a team manager last year and Chennai-based Sunil Subramanium had been shortlisted for the role. 
 
 “The CoA can’t let this question just hang in the air. Does the CAC exist or doesn’t? Individuals don’t matter and neither do regional biases. There has to be a set of rules and regulations in place,” sources said.
 
