A group of   actors came together at a mall in   to stage an adaptation of the popular farcical play, ' ', by playwright and screenwriter Neil Simons. The adapted play, 'An Unventful Night', revolves around the dramatic incidents that occur on the 10th anniversary of Animesh Singh, a local   and Anita Singh, a well-known socialite. The chaos unravels as the guests, including three elite couples and friends of Animesh and Anita, start pouring in and discover the episodes that lead to this ‘uneventful night’.

  
  Gossip girls: Guncha (left) and Ojaswini Gul
 
 
 Kanu Priya, the director of the play, said, “One of the biggest challenges that I faced was that I had to cut short the duration of the play from two-and-a-half hours to around one-and-a-half hours. Another challenge was that the original play is set in New York in the year 1988 and speaks of underlying sexism and patriarchy that was prevalent at that time. So, we took almost a month to contemporarise and transform it to suit the taste of the modern Indian audience, making the women in our play more important than being just props.” 
 
  She added, “I took a cue from the elite families of Noida and Delhi, who stay in villas, own farmhouses and hail from a political background. The best part about performing at one of the prime locations of Noida's on a Saturday evening was that it drew the right kind of audience, those who understand and appreciate theatre. We have performed across   but the best part about Noida audience is that it is evolving and gradually opening up to theatre. Noidawallahs are well-read, receptive to new ideas and quite inquisitive as an audience.”
 
  
  Who is the culprit?
 
 
 Ojaswini Gul, who played the character of Neeta Juneja, an elite Delhi socialite, said, “My character is whiny, self-obsessed, always worried about her looks, but she is also sharp, intelligent and cook up amazing stories. The interesting part was that the play spoke of all things quintessentially Delhi – there were designer dresses, Belgian wine glasses and a lot of showing off. I totally enjoyed playing my character as I realised that when we gossip or stereotype people, we simply reduce them to caricatures but there are more layers to every personality type.”
 
 Jitendra Punjabi, an audience member and resident of Noida, who came along with his family to attend the play, said, “I really loved the comic timing of the actors. The best part was that even though it was an adaptation of a play set in a different era, it was contemporarised so well that one could relate to its characters.”
 
 
  
  Caught in the act! Shashank Bansal, Varinder Saini and Ojaswini Gul 
 
 
  
  (L-R) Jalaj Agarwal, Aarohi Tyagi and Varinder Saini
  
 
 
 - Aditi.Pancholi@timesgroup.com
 
 
