THIRUVANANTHAPURAM:   has directed its affiliated institutions in   to remain on high alert for the next three days to continue an experiment on receiving and processing exam question papers online. The online mechanism, which was tested on Thursday, will be an alternative arrangement for the distribution of question papers. This happened a day after the board decided to reconduct exams in economics (Class XII) and mathematics (Class X).

 CBSE school managements in Kerala went into a tizzy on Thursday when they received an urgent communication from the board’s regional office, asking them to be ready with a prescribed set of machines to carry out this online experiment. The exercise was organised so that reexams of Class X and XII students can be done quickly.
 
 “The communication was received very early in the day. All examination centres were asked to be ready with heavy-duty printers and photocopiers under CC TV surveillance by 2pm for the conduct of a mock drill. This is something unscientific. Many schools in rural areas don’t have a leased line data connection or other high-definition equipment. The attempts to try online mechanism as a knee-jerk reaction to plug the damage of   leak is highly objectionable,” said a CBSE school chairman.
 
 Sources said the board has informed school authorities that all schools (exam centres) should be kept open and ready with necessary facilities, including backup power supply for the next three days. 
 
 The board will be trying various modes of online question papers distribution on these days.
 
 Several schools approached the CBSE regional office outlining practical difficulties they face when the board insists on mock drills that fall on Good Friday, Holy Saturday and Easter. However, the institutions were told to strictly cooperate with the drill as it was a directive issued from CBSE HQ in New Delhi.
 
 Till date, question papers were stored at nationalized banks in physical form and schools used to collect the same from banks on the day of exam.
 
 The same drill was conducted in Mumbai’s schools on Thursday. Schools had to print 150 copies of four sets of dummy question papers. Principals in Mumbai were unsure about the feasibility of this exercise. “Internet connectivity is not uniform in city schools and servers might not take the load when schools across the country log in at the same time,” said the principal of a school in Navi Mumbai.
 
 Similarly, it would be difficult for schools to print and bundle all question papers for a large number of students before the exam. Schools had to submit a report to the CBSE on the time taken to complete the printing on Thursday.
 
 (Inputs from   in Mumbai)
 
 
