HYDERABAD: Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) sleuths believe tainted Hyderabad Metropolitan Development Authority ( ) director K Purushotham Reddy and other accused in disproportionate assets ( ) case were well-prepared for raids on their properties, as   found some crucial evidences missing. ACB is yet to lay hands on the original property documents of the accused and they also found that Digital Video Recorder (DVR) at Purushotham's Banjara Hills house is missing. During a search at Purushotham's Sagar Society duplex house on Sunday, ACB noticed four   cameras installed in the house, but the DVR was missing. 

 However, ACB sleuths found an external hard disc containing visuals of Reddy at a house warming party of a farmhouse in Kolthur village, Shamirpet mandal. An ACB team conducted searches at the farmhouse on Monday and recorded statements of the watchman and the caretaker.
 
 ACB sleuths are planning to book Reddy under Section 201 (causing disappearance of evidence) of the IPC. "When we conducted searches at the house of another accused, A Yadava Reddy, in Sneha Nagar Colony of Habsiguda, we could not obtain CCTV footages. The accused said that DVR was not working," an ACB official said.
 
 When confronted with new details of farmhouse at Shamirpet, Purushotham said that it was an old property which was sold to others in 2008. But, when ACB questioned him that how can he sell the property in 2008, when it was registered in the name of his mother-in-law Sudheshna in 2013, Purushotham remained mum. ACB sleuths said the land was purchased at Kolthur in 2013 and after building a farmhouse, a house warming party was held in 2015. "According to the video, Purushotham Reddy's daughters were also present at the party and they seem to be in their 20s. Their appearance did not match with their 2008 photos and Reddy had no explanation for that," said an investigator.
 
 ACB sleuths also found bills pertaining to the purchase of Innova Crysta high-end model from Purushotham Reddy's house. The bills were in the name of one K Srinivas Reddy, ACB sleuths seized the bills and are trying to identify K Srinivas Reddy. Based on ACB complaint, Ameerpet Excise sleuths registered a case against Purushotham Reddy under Section 34(A) of Telangana State Excise Act 1968 pertaining to 17 bottles of liquor seized at his house during the search.
 
 
