ARA: Chief minister Nitish Kumar on Monday inaugurated the three-day ‘Vijayotsav’ celebrations at Jagdishpur in Bhojpur district to mark the 160th anniversary of the victory of Veer Kunwar Singh over the Tommies in what is popularly known as Sepoy Mutiny in 1857.

 “The state government is serious about making the entire country, especially the new generation, aware about the legendary contributions of Veer Kunwar Singh in our freedom struggle. He inspired thousands of freedom fighters by his valour and excellent war strategy,” Nitish said addressing a large gathering on the occasion.
 
 Bihar, he said, spread the message of Guru Gobind Singh and Mahatma Gandhi by celebrating Prakash Parv and Champaran Satyagraha centenary. “Likewise, I feel the need to spread the knowledge about Veer Kunwar Singh as well,” he said.
 
 The CM recalled Veer Kunwar Singh took out a long march that covered 2,300km to motivate the Indian youth and soldiers to fight against the oppressive forces of the British empire. Despite limited resources and soldiers at his disposal, he refused to kowtow to the British empire. “Fighting fearlessly and defeating the all-powerful Tommies even at the age of 80 is no mean achievement,” he said.
 
 Nitish announced his government would compile the brave deeds, achievements and other aspects of Veer Kunwar Singh in a new book. He also announced that the historic places associated with Veer Kunwar Singh such as Ara House would be renovated and developed.
 
 “Another pleasing aspect of Veer Kunwar Singh was his ability to get along with all sections of society — be it ‘Savarn’, ‘Pichhada’ or dalits . This gives us the noble message of social harmony, unity and peace,” Nitish said.
 
 Earlier, a grand ‘shobha yatra’ was taken out from Shivpur Ghat to Jagdishpur Fort, covering a distance of 30km in the morning. Flower petals were showered on the procession in which artistes from Varanasi and other places dreseed as Kunwar Singh and sepoys took part. 
 
 The shobha yatra was received at Jagdishpur Fort by the CM. Deputy CM Sushil Kumar Modi, Union minister and Ara MP R K Singh and local MLAs were among those who attended the inaugural function.
 
 
