The staff of the government secretariat, who depend on   to reach offices on time, have something to cheer about.   
(‘Secretariat employees unhappy with new punching system?’, edition dated January 12) had reported how, in the wake of the new policy introduced by the government with regard to the biometric punching system, employees found it difficult to be punctual as a result of irregular train timings. Former Additional Secretary Babu Paul was quoted in the report saying that “to help those who depend on train services, the government should regulate the train timings in association with the Railway Ministry”. 
 
 On Friday, when the new General Manager of Southern Railway, R K Kulashrestha, had a meeting with the Kerala MPs, Alappuzha   brought up the issue and this is understood to have been accepted by the railway authorities. 
 “We came to know that many employees, especially secretariat staff who depend on train services, fail to punch in their attendance at the required hour as almost all passenger trains are late. After I took it up, the railway officials have given an assurance that priority will be given to these trains in the same way as that of our Express trains. We came to know about the problems faced by the secretariat employees due to delayed trains from news articles including the recent one in Trivandrum Times. They have also approved our suggestion to make Kazhakoottam a main stop too as it will be easy for those employed in Technopark. The railway officials have confirmed to give priority to the train timings of these commuter trains which now get delayed by 30 to 45 minutes. Hope this will help the work force reach office on time,” says Venugopal.
 
 The Southern Railway chief operations manager S Anantharaman gave an assurance at the conference that “the timings of trains which are depended upon by the office goers will be given priority” and that they will “examine the measures to prepone the selected trains especially in morning hours to make them reach the destinations on time”.
 
 Welcoming this development, Satheeja VR, convener of the   Vanitha subcommittee, says, “My colleagues who depend on these trains will be relieved. If the authorities allocate more trains, it will be even better. I think the other suggestion made by Babu Paul sir in the same report to allocate free KSRTC bus services for government employees from Pettah and Thampannoor should also be implemented.”
 
