BENGALURU: Contractor-turned-Congress MLA N Munirathna Naidu and three others have been chargesheeted in the fake bill scam in the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP).

  
 The Criminal Investigation Department (CID), which is probing the Rs 1,500-crore scam, named the MLA from Rajarajeshwari Nagar as accused no 4 in its chargesheet filed on February 23, sources in the agency confirmed. 
 
 The CID has filed more than 90 chargesheets so far in the scam, which is said to be one of the biggest scandals to rock Bengaluru city’s civic administration. Contractors and officials allegedly colluded to raise bills repeatedly over the same civic works and even raised bills for works that were not even carried out.
 
 The scam is under investigation of the agency for more than seven years. Sources said more chargesheets against the lawmaker are in the offing.
 
 The latest chargesheet runs into 491 pages and pertains to the execution of asphalting works in Mathikere ward of Malleswaram division sanctioned in 2008-09. Munirathna had bagged the project as a contractor. The chargesheet, a copy of which is available with TOI, charges Munirathna of colluding with BBMP officials and swindling an amount of Rs 4.6 lakh by executing poor quality road work.
 
 B G Prakash Kumar, the then executive engineer, Y M Muniraju, the then assistant executive engineer and M K Harish, the then assistant engineer, all in the Malleswaram division of BBMP, are the other accused.
 
 The   lawmaker had been granted anticipatory bail in the case by a metropolitan magistrate on August 28, 2012. Two days later he appeared before the investigating officer and was given regular bail. The three other accused too had obtained anticipatory bail.
 
 Munirathna had been a corporator representing Yeshwantpura ward, before he got elected from Rajarajeshwari Nagar in 2013. 
 
 The chargesheet invokes IPC sections 120B (criminal conspiracy), 409 (criminal breach of trust), 465 (punishment for forgery), 468 (forgery for cheating) and 477 (A) (falsification of accounts) and Section 31 C & D of the Prevention of Corruption Act read with Section (32).
 
 
 
 
 I was a contractor for this work in 2008. In 2010, the BBMP gave me a clean chit in the case. CID officials have erred in this case. Before naming me in the chargesheet, they should have issued me a notice and sought my side of the story. I will challenge the chargesheet in the high court. As the elections are nearing, the BJP is going to town with this 
 
 N Munirathna, Congress MLA, Rajarajeshwari Nagar
 
 
 
 
 The fake bill scam pertains to execution of civic works Rs worth 1,500 crore executed in three assembly constituencies – Rajarajeshwarinagar, Malleswaram and Gandhinagar – between 2008 and 2011. It was alleged that bills were raised more than once about the same works and in some instances, works that were not even executed. The agency is looking into irregularities pertaining to 285 civil works.
 
 One of the big leads to the scam came during December 2014, when the Lokayukta sleuths during a raid found about 800 BBMP files stacked in a house registered in the name of Munirathna Naidu. Three BBMP officials were also present at the house.
 
 
