Jaipur: The Congress on Wednesday cornered the state ministers in assembly over alleged irregularities and corruption in Dang area development scheme and posting of doctors in rural areas.

 Deputy leader of opposition Ramesh Meena accused the government of allocating lesser funds to Karauli district as compared to Dholpur and Jhalawar, the home turf of chief minister Vasundhara Raje. Congress MLA Pradhyumn Singh claimed a ‘game of commissions or cuts’ was going on in Dholpur (a Dang area and CM’s hometown). Panchayati raj minister Rajendra Rathore quipped, “MLA from Rajakhera (Pradhyumn Singh) is connected with the CM through hotline, he could have easily raised the matter with her (Raje). If the MLA complains in writing, we will get it examined.”
 
 Congress whip Govind Singh Dotasra accused health minister Kali Charan Saraf of presenting incorrect information in the house over positing of doctors at community health centers and trauma centers in Sikar district. Saraf objected when Dotasra repeatedly said that the health minister used his ‘ashish’ (blessing) and vivek’ (discretion) in posting of doctors. Incidentally, the health minister has two sons named Ashish and Vivek.
 
 In another instance, BJP MLA Shubhkaran Chaudhary had heated arguments with home minister Gulab Chand Kataria when the latter told him during a reply that “aisa nahi hai ki aap hi dhood se dhule ho (it’s not so as if only you are a clean person).” Chaudhary asked, “How can you say I am not clean? What is this certificate you have given me?” Kataria was replying to Chaudhary’s allegation that the police’s CID (CB) was shielding certain persons against whom there were criminal cases. Suggesting that the MLA was trying to pressurise the government, the home minister said innocent people will not be framed by raising the voice.
 
 The house witnessed BJP MLA Ghanshyam Tiwari, government’s deputy whip Madan Rathod and parliamentary affairs minister Rathore taking potshots at each other during the zero hour. Deputy whip Rathod said age was taking a toll on Tiwari, as he suspected the government of preventing him from participating in assembly debates. Objecting to the Rathod’s remark, Tiwari said, “There is just a difference of 2-3 years between mine and the CM’s age; get hers checked.” When parliamentary affairs minister compared Tiwari to a ruin (khandar), the senior BJP MLA pointed towards Raje’s seat and said, “Uss khandar ko sambhalo (hold that ruin).
 
 Tiwari had sought the chair’s ruling on the house tradition that members willing to participate in assembly debates send their names through the government whip or opposition whip or party leaders in the house. While Rathore and government whip Kalu Lal Gurjar defended the tradition, deputy speaker Rao Rajendra Singh said that members were free to send their names directly to the chair.
 
 
