Gurgaon: A group of village headmen and elders, most of them associated with  , gathered under the banner of Sarva Khap Sarva Dharma Bhaichara and Samrashta Panchayat in the city on Saturday and called for a “boycott” of people trying to disturb the social fabric of Gurgaon.

 The meeting comes amid opposition by various local Hindutva outfits to   in  , after which the total number of sites where prayers are offered were restricted this Friday. The   assembled at Chaudhary Chhotu Ram Bhavan in Jharsa for what they described as a “mahapanchayat to ensure social harmony”. Choudhary Mahendra Singh Thakkran, head of 360 villages, chaired the meet and decided to hold a meeting of people from all religions and communities on May 27 “to strengthen bonds”.
 
 Around 50 people were present at the meeting, including village heads and former sarpanches, social workers and some officebearers of Congress. 
 
 Takkran said religion should be practised in a way that it should not disturb anyone, but no one has a right to disrupt anyone from his or her religious practice. “Gurgaon has no history of communal violence or any kind of conflict. Even during the (Jat) reservation protest, Gurgaon was peaceful. We will not allow anyone to disrupt peace,” said Takkran, adding they will speak to people of different faiths to resolve the issue of prayers in open spaces and maintain peace and harmony across the district. 
 
 Takkran said Saturday’s meeting had no other agenda but to bring people from different sections of the society on a common platform to avoid any kind of conflict. He said people from all faiths live in Gurgaon and there is happy and peaceful co-existence of everyone.
 
 Senior advocate and general secretary of Haryana state Congress, Mukesh Sharma, who was the key figure behind the meeting, said some communal forces were trying to disrupt the social fabric of the city. “Such people should be boycotted,” said Sharma, adding strengthening the bond between different communities was the need of the hour.
 
 Mahavir Bharadwaj, president of  , the organisation behind the opposition to namaz in open spaces, termed said the Jharsa meeting was a “political” meeting. “There is a trend in the country wherein politicians and   parties jump on burning issues. It is not surprising, and we have nothing to do with it,” said Bharadwaj, pointing out that most people who attended the meeting had a particular political affiliation.
 
 On the contrary, Bharadwaj claimed, his group has no association with any party or politician. “We have not invited any political party and politician in our meetings. Ours is a group of people from Hindu society,” said Bharadwaj, adding they were not against prayer but prayer in open areas without permission.
 
 
