CHANDIGARH: While granting bail to the   followers who have been booked for violence and arson following the conviction of dera chief   in rape cases in August 2017, the   and   high court has asked them to contribute the cost of properties allegedly damaged by them during the violence.

 Development is significant, as the high court has directed a large number of accused involved in damaging properties to deposit their contribution for the damage by making it one of the necessary conditions to get bail in the related cases. The move would also help in recovery of damages caused to public property during August 2017 violence.
 
 The accused have been asked to deposit their contribution proportionate to the total damage caused to the public property for which they have been booked. They have been ordered to deposit this amount in addition to the surety bonds required to be deposited with the concerned magistrate for release on bail.
 
 Justice H S   passed these orders while granting bail to large number of accused involved in the violence and arson in   and Kaithal districts.
 
 Most of these accused were named in the FIRs related to damage to power department’s office in   town of Kaithal district and setting the Nalvi telephone exchange on fire in Kurukshetra district.
 
 While seeking bail, the main submission of the accused was that they were not initially named in the FIRs but their names cropped up during the investigations.
 
 Hearing their pleas, the   was of the view that no doubt allegations against them are quite serious and nobody can be allowed to take law into his own hands and go to the extent of destroying the public properties, causing a sense of fear in the minds of people. “However, at the same time, it has to be kept in mind that the guilt of the petitioners would be determined during the trial. They do not come out to be a hardened criminal,” the court observed.
 
 “If after the trial they are found to be guilty, they would be convicted and punished suitably. However, keeping in view the fact that the trial is at initial stage and will take considerable time for conclusion and several similarly placed persons have been granted the concession of bail, therefore, it shall be in the fitness of the things to grant regular bail to them, though on stringent terms and conditions,” ordered Justice Madan while releasing them on bail.
 
 Besides directing them to furnish surety bonds to the satisfaction of the chief judicial magistrate/duty magistrates of the concerned districts, the HC has also ordered them to deposit some amount in the court towards cost of destruction of public property, keeping in view the part attributed to them as per prosecution case. HC has even quantified the contribution of each accused while granting them bail.
 
 
