BENGALURU: A 40-year-old man fell to his death from a building on MG Road on Monday morning. 

 Harish H L, who worked as an accounts executive with an HR service provider and was stationed at   Ltd office in S&B Towers, MG Road, fell around 8.55 am. He was rushed to   where he was declared brought dead.
 
 "He was brought to the hospital at 9.10am. There was no pulse or blood pressure. He must have fallen from a highrise structure as the injuries were grievous. There was bleeding from his nose and mouth while his right hand was fractured. He must have suffered major injuries to the brain and neck," doctors at Mallya Hospital told TOI. 
 
 Cubbon Park police said Harish landed first on a car in the parking lot before hitting the ground. It is not clear from which floor Harish fell. He worked at the Wipro service provider's desk on the fourth floor of the building.
 
 Sources said Harish jumped from the third floor of the building which was vacant and there were no CCTV cameras installed on the floor. 
 
 Police have registered a case of suspicious death based on the complaint lodged by H L Praveen Kumar, Harish's brother. "For now, we haven't come across any motive for him to commit suicide. We have taken up a case and are probing to know what led to his death. He was living at NR Garden in Cholur Palya and is survived by wife Mamata, six-year-old daughter and two-year-old son," a police officer said.
 
 The body was handed over to family members after postmortem at Bowring and  . "I was standing on the road and saw something falling. Only when he hit the ground did I realise that it was a man falling. He was taken to the hospital in a private car," said a witness. There was no blood traces at the spot, but the car on which Harish landed had a huge dent in the bonnet. 
 
  "It is with deep regret that we confirm there was an unfortunate incident at one of Wipro's offices in Bengaluru on the morning of February 19, where an employee of one of our service providers was grievously injured and passed away. The authorities are investigating the reasons for the incident. We are in touch with the family and extend our complete support to them in this difficult time," Wipro said in a communication. 
 
