CHENNAI: Mammoth structures housing the 175-year-old Pachaiyappa’s College standing splendidly on a sprawling campus worth a couple of thousand crores of rupees reflect the grand vision its founders had in their minds. But the present dilapidation of buildings and deterioration of academic standards signal the unworthiness of its inheritors. Contemptible state of the college buildings symbolises erosion of values and a blot on the legacy.

 About a dozen of its alumni were chief ministers, governors and administrators of princely states. The third oldest college in Chennai — after Madras Christian College and Presidency College — was alma mater of mathematical genius Srinivasa Ramanujan. The famed Madras Presidency worked out of Pachaiyappa’s College campus during World War II. It was ground zero during anti-Hindi agitations that raged across the state in the early 1960s, and was nerve centre of student politics in those days. Several DMK and AIADMK leaders including former chief minister C N Annadurai, were alumni of the college.
 
 Today though, Pachaiyappa’s is a much diminished entity – and nothing is more telling than its hostel. The three-block structure has about 300 rooms but has just about 500 students now. Most of the students are accommodated in two blocks, where occupation is allowed only on the ground floor. Construction of the hostel’s central block began in 1914 and was completed in 1921.
 
 Former associate professor of the college’s history department S Krishnasamy accused authorities of paying little attention to renovate the hostel. "The three blocks were named after Tholkappiar, Elango and Kambar. They were constructed even before the Pachaiyappa’s College was shifted to the existing premises at Chetpet from Parrys in 1940. Several crores of rupees are being spent on various purposes in the college, but nothing has been done to renovate the century-old hostel," he said.
 
 A professor, under strict condition of anonymity, said the building had not even been white-washed for more than four decades. "Except for a few maintenance works at the chambers of the heads of departments, nothing has been done for the facelift of the entire college for several years," he said.
 
 Krishnasamy, an alumnus who was an occupant of the hostel for five years, said it functioned as a college when the administrative headquarters of the British government in Madras Presidency was moved to Pachaiyappa’s College during the Second World War. "The corporation had issued demolition notice to the central block, the oldest among the hostel blocks, a few years ago," he added.
 
 Former vice-chancellor of Alagappa University, Ramasamy, said Pachaiyappa’s College took the lead in the anti-Hindi agitations along with the Madras Law College in 1965. "Students from all colleges across Chennai met at a hostel room in Pachaiyappa’s to discuss the course of action on January 23, 1965," he said.
 
 But of late, the heritage institution is mostly identified with campus violence, poor academic record and unruly students who spread terror on road, aboard buses and at cultural events. The ‘bus day’ menace unleashed by Pachaiyappa’s students on city roads is too frequent and annoying.
 
 When contacted, S Kaliraj, principal of Pachaiyappa’s College, said funds to carry out renovation were a constraint. "However, we would give the college building a facelift. In another six months, we will renovate the central block of the hostel for which about `1 crore is required," he said. Presently, a sum of `10 lakh is being spent annually for the maintenance of the hostel, he added.
 
 
