Hyderabad: What would you do if you were suffering from health problems arising from bad food choices and lifestyle? Go to the doctor perhaps and pop a few pills to fix the problem perhaps!

 But this enterprising Hyderabad based husband-wife duo would have none of that. Confronted with nagging health problems due to their poor dietary habits and lifestyle, Saneesha Rao Lingala (30) and Gopikrishna Lingala (37) decided to take matters into their own hands.
 
 The determined duo hit upon the idea of coming up with a solution that would not only help themselves but others like them keen on getting their health and lifestyle back on track. And that’s how   was born in 2016.
 
 “After returning from Colombia in 2014, we started ordering food from outside. I was working with an MNC and used to have my breakfast, lunch and dinner at the office cafeteria. The Rs 30 breakfasts and Rs 60 lunches and dinners soon took a toll… the food became a huge shock for our bodies and the change in rhythm for me at work and for her due to pregnancy had a huge impact on our health,” says Gopikrishna Lingala, co-founder and CEO, LeanSpoon, explaining how the seeds for their startup were sown.
 
 In their quest to get more balanced meals, they realised they were ending up ordering multiple items but up wasting most of it because there was only that much they could eat.
 
 “That’s when we decided we needed our own food…we hired a cook and then fired her soon enough as we felt it was not working out. We then reached out to friends, family and colleagues and found everyone was struggling with the same problem. That’s when we decided to look for a solution.”
 
 Having lived in Colombia (South America) for a few years, the couple realised that the Colombian lunch concept of Corrientazo, that they were used to during their stint there, was the perfect balanced meal with the right amount of proteins, carbs and fats. “Inspired by that, we decided to float our own startup offering healthy and nutritionally balanced meals,” adds co-founder Saneesha.
 
 Undeterred by the fact that they were expecting their first child, Gopikrishna quit his cushy MNC job in June 2015. By July 2015, they brought their first child into the world and by 2015 end, they had their first entrepreneurial venture -- Anyuna Foods LLP-- going.
 
 “We took about three to six months to just do our research and set up our kitchen. The first three months went in setting up the kitchen and the next three months testing, doing nutrition calculations, menu parametrisation, internal product trials. One of the first things we did was to meet eminent nutritionists to guide us,” he explains.
 
 But soon they found themselves confronted by a big question. “The first thing was that when we were talking about healthy food, the question was healthy for whom? And that created the basic business model for leanspoon,” points out Gopikrishna.
 
 “We realised that if we have to provide healthy food for somebody and give them nutrition guidance, it has to be personalised and can’t be a one-size-fits-all formula of photocopied meal plans,” chips in Saneesha.
 
 The duo went through the entire process of trying to devise the perfect balanced meal through a combination of experienced nutritionsists, technology and data science. They pooled in Rs 1 crore of their savings and went about a testing and assessment process for which they carried out early trials with a group of about 25 friends and friends of friends.
 
 “We did a trial with them to test our services. This gave us a lot of feedback to improve operationally and to personalise our offerings to the individual level using technology wherever possible. Some of them became paying customers, which was a test for us too. In fact, some of them are still with us today,” explains Saneesha.
 
 They hired chefs with work experience in five-star hotels as well as qualified nutritionists to lend their menu an attractive yet healthy touch. An NID passout packaging design consultant was also roped in to develop a unique packaging that is not only heat retaining, but also eco-friendly and hygienic and also cost-effective at the same time.
 
 They found vendors to make the packaging but ran against a wall when it came to finding the right kind of food safe plastics to pack the food in. After finding a contract manufacturer they were ready to roll.
 
 By October 2016, ready to go commercial with their services. But not wanting to bite off more than they could chew they started out by launching their website and mobile app and initially went with just lunch packages.
 
 But one of their biggest pain points turned out to be logistics. They tried hiring their own delivery boys but failure to find manpower that was regular and consistent proved to be a major problem.
 
 As people started sampling their offerings, by April 2017 they were ready to go full-fledged. LeanSpoon expanded its services to all three major meals (breakfast, lunch and dinner) and two minor meals (morning and evening snacks) as well as specialised clinical nutrition packages – Lifestyle and PRO. They decided to outsource delivery to three delivery services providers and soon things began moving ahead.
 
 Today, the startup not only caters to individual customers with meal plans and diet and nutrition counselling plans, but also corporates and hospitals with customised meals for patients. It also hopped onto the Swiggy platform for delivery of meals.
 
 The completely bootstrapped startup had its big wow moment recently when the Nasscom selected them for its 10,000 Startups Warehouse programme, giving the much needed boost to its ambitions that include taking their venture pan-India.
 
 GRAPHIC:
 
 LEANSPOON
 
 The husband-wife duo of Saneesha Rao Lingala and Gopikrishna Lingala registered Anyuna Foods LLP in 2015 end
 
 Floated health and nutrition startup under the brand LeanSpoon in mid-2016
 
 Kicked off operations with half a dozen members and today has a team of 22
 
 The founders, both former techies, have pumped in about Rs 2 crore of their own savings into the business so far
 
 LeanSpoon has so far catered to over 1,000 customers, including personalised meal plans for individuals, corporate meals and customised patient meals
 
 Plans to raise around $0.5 million to fund R&D, technology enablement, customer acquisition and expansion
 
 Currently has operations only in Hyderabad and hopes to expand to other tier-I cities in the future
 
 One of the startups to be selected by the Nasscom 10,000 Startups Warehouse
 
 QUOTE:
 
 “We were living in Mumbai and eating out often, which took a toll on our health. Saneesha too was grappling with pregnancy related problems. We also hired and fired a cook as it was not working out. Within 3-4 months of moving back to Hyderabad we realised there are many others like us and decided to look for a solution. Inspired by the Colombian lunch concept of Corrientazo, we decided to float our own startup offering healthy and nutritionally balanced meals,” Gopikrishna Lingala, co-founder and CEO, LeanSpoon
 
 
