NEW DELHI: Following protests from   residents last month, chief minister   attended a DJB public hearing on Saturday and announced a host of measures to end water bill woes. He said all the arrears on sewer charges for using borewells and penalties on not following rainwater harvesting system would be waived off. 

 The Dwarka residents had alleged receiving bills with arrears and penalties ranging between a few lakhs and crores. Based on the feedback from community representatives from all over Dwarka, Kejriwal said, “Those who get their boring points sealed will no longer have to pay these charges in the future. For the horticulture use of borewells, meters will be installed and DJB will fix a limit to water use.” 
 
 The chief minister, who holds the water portfolio, also assured relaxation for six more months to those who have not installed a rainwater harvesting system. “We will also reduce two mandatory inspections to one, which will be carried out after June 30 before the monsoons,” he announced. Several hundred RWA members and cooperative group housing society members vented out their grievances regarding water bill-related grievances in front of senior government functionaries, MLAs from   and Matiala — Bhavna Guar and Gulab Sing, and senior DJB officials at the hearing organised at Deen Dayal Upadhyay College. 
 
  from St Gregorios School, Sector 11 Dwarka, said they had not been receiving any bills since DJB took over and the institution has suddenly been told to pay Rs 1 crore 25 lakh. “How can a school even use so much water? How can anyone justify this,” Thomas asked. Rakesh Kumar, from Sawan CGHS, said despite their borewell not being in use, the society received a bill of Rs 4.38 lakh. “These borewells are from the time when water supply was scarce in Dwarka. We don’t need them now, but continue to get their bills,” he argued. Rainwater harvesting systems was another major concern at the hearing. As per the rule, a society is supposed to maintain these pits, get it checked and submit a fitness certificate to DJB twice a year. 
 
 Many societies had received penalties despite clearance, while others rued that getting clearance twice was a costly affair. Sudha Sinha, general secretary of Federation of CGHS Dwarka, said it had been three months that they wrote to the CM and DJB CEO. “We had to organise protests and dharnas to bring the CM to Dwarka and we appreciate it, but DJB is very unresponsive.” DJB took over water supply in 2015. Why it still not has all the data from DDA, Sinha asked. Gulab Singh, local MLA, agreed that problems were genuine and resolved to find a solution. 
 
 Kejriwal assured the gathering that the government would raise the matter of DDA arrears with the  , adding that the bills that show these additions enforcement would be put on hold till the matter gets resolved. All the users who have already paid these charges and penalties would have an option to get the amount adjusted in the future bills.
