Think about It - If you're feeling sleepy at work, you may be tempted to grab a cup of coffee (or several cups) or an energy bar for a quick shot of energy. Later you may skip the gym and walk home looking forward to spend some quality time with family. After a hectic stressful day when you are finally in bed, you are too wound up to sleep. It's a vicious cycle and eventually this   can sabotage your waistline and your health. In today's time, getting seven to eight hours of sound sleep each night might seem an almost impossible luxury to many people.

 Obesity contributes to numerous chronic health conditions including Type 2 diabetes, heart disease and osteoarthritis. The sleep-obesity link is particularly relevant given that sleep problems are widespread in many countries, with less than half of adults regularly getting good sleep. Sleep helps in the repair and restoration of the body. The rest that happens during sleep rejuvenates your body for the next day.
 
 In a study conducted; short duration of sleep was associated with a greater risk of becoming overweight or obese. It also stated that “short duration of sleep is a significant predictor of the development of overweight, obesity and weight gain from birth to adolescence”
 
 Lack of sleep also hinders your body's ability to process the sweet stuff. When you're sleep deprived, the mitochondria in your cells that digest fuel start to shut down. Sugar remains in your blood and you end up with high blood sugar. According to a study, losing out on sleep can decrease the ability of fat cells to deal with insulin by 30%.
 
 Getting enough sleep will put you in a better mood. When you feel relaxed and happy; you may be less likely to binge on sweets or snacks. Feeling rested will also give you greater energy and motivation to follow your exercise regimen. When you get enough sleep, your body will lose more fat than muscle as compared with, when you're sleep deprived. In addition to this, getting enough sleep makes you feel and look good. It enlivens your overall demeanour. It also brightens up your skin and eyes if the much needed rest is received.
 
 "Sleeping isn't downtime, you're feeding your body just like eating"
 
 
 1. M.A. Miller, M. Kruisbrink, J. Wallace, et.al. Sleep Duration Predict Incident Obesity in Childhood and Adolescence: Meta-analysis of Prospective Studies. EPI/Lifestyle 2017 Scientific Sessions Abstracts. 2017.Abstract:90.
 2. Broussard JL, Ehrmann DA, Van Cauter E, Tasali E, Brady MJ. Impaired Insulin Signaling in Human Adipocytes After Experimental Sleep Restriction: A Randomized, Crossover Study. Ann Intern Med. 2012;157:549-557. doi: 10.7326/0003-4819-157-8-201210160-00005.
 
 
 
 Dr. T. Parthasarathy, MD (Gen. Med.), DM (Cardiology), Consultant Cardiologist, Heart Care Clinic, Cuddalore.
 E-mail: tparthas@yahoo.co.in
 
 
 
 
