BAGAHA/PATNA: With   round the corner, a large part of   district in Uttar Pradesh and four blocks of West Champaran district including Piparasi, Madhubani, Bhitaha and Thakaraha situated along the right flank of the 35km stretch of Piparasi-Pipra embankment along Bihar-Uttar Pradesh border are facing flood threat.

 Senior engineers at   divisional office of water resources department said the water level at   barrage in Valmikinagar has surged from 8000 cusec on Wednesday to 27,000 cusec on Friday.
 
 Bagaha SDM   said, “I recently inspected the 35km long stretch and identified various issues resulting in weakening of the embankment, including rat holes and high water pressure at some points. It has also come to our knowledge that there were no boulder stocks at vulnerable points across the stretch. Only sand bags with flood-safety bags were seen on vulnerable points, which are not enough to combat flood and erosion. Rats have carved out huge holes resulting in weakening of embankment that needs to be fixed urgently to avoid crumbling of the bundh at several places.”
 
 He added, “Two days ago, a detailed report highlighting areas requiring repair work was forwarded to West Champaran district magistrate. After going through the report, the DM issued directives to immediately execute the work.”
 
 Talking about the rescue and relief measures to be taken in case of exigency, Meena said, “The Gandak river is swelling and flowing with fury around 10 feet from the embankment at several places. The BDO of these blocks have been directed to keep adequate stock of foodgrains and motor boats. The health department too has been asked to stock all essential medicines to meet any emergency.”
 
 “The DM will also inspect the area on Monday. The team of engineers deployed to carry out the repair work on the embankment have claimed that the work will be over in seven-days, starting from June 16,” informed Meena.
 
 Sources also claimed that water resources minister   is likely to visit Gandak embankment and Gandak barrage soon to review the preparations.
 
 
