BENGALURU:   (SHPs) in the   of   have not only altered the composition of freshwater fish communities but also reduced the number of species. This startling revelation has been made by a first-of-its-kind holistic   in India, which has evaluated the environmental impacts of SHPs.

 Scientists from Wildlife Conservation Society – India Program (WCS-India Program), National Centre for   (Bengaluru), University of Florida, Ashoka Trust for Research in Ecology and the Environment, and Foundation for Ecological Research Advocacy and Learning (FERAL), jointly conducted the study in the upper reaches of river Nethravathi, which is part of the Western Ghats biodiversity hotspot. 
 
 Two dammed tributaries and one undammed tributary of the west-flowing Nethravathi were selected for the study titled ‘Fish community responses to stream flow alterations and habitat modifications by small hydropower projects in the Western Ghats biodiversity hotspot, India’.
 
 The study showed that SHPs reduced the water flow immediately downstream of the dam and caused flow fluctuation when water is released back into the river after power generation, both of which impact fish assemblages (variety and abundance). Dammed streams were found to have altered fish composition and less number of species.
 
 Suman Jumani, lead author of the study, said, “SHPs are a classic case of good intentions leading to terrible consequences. Since SHPs result in diverting water for long distances, vast stretches of the river are almost completely devoid of water flow in the dry season. Water in these stretches had lower oxygen levels and higher water temperature. Not surprisingly, these habitat alterations strongly affected freshwater fish assemblages.”
 
 Scientists have also found that dammed streams had more generalist species of fish (widespread and can survive in harsh environments) compared to specialist species (unique to certain rivers). They also had reduced numbers of migratory fish such as Mahseer. Native species were strongly affected and were being driven to extinction, the study added.
 
 SHPs are hydroelectric plants with relatively lesser power generating capacity, often promoted as a cleaner and greener alternative to large hydropower projects. In India, they are defined as those that generate power up to 25 megawatt (MW).
 
 Spike in man-elephant conflict
 
 The study revealed that SHPs have also caused a new problem: a surge in human-elephant conflict situations. Shishir Rao from WCS-India said the number of claims filed for elephant conflict compensation increased by 173% compared to the previous year in an area where an SHP was commissioned. 
 
 “This is a concern since the reserve forests of Sakleshpur are a critical elephant corridor connecting Pushpagiri Wildlife Sanctuary in the south and Kudremukh National Park in the north,” it said.
 
 Apart from the dam, the construction of associated structures such as large pipes, canals and transmission lines hinders the movement of elephants, forcing them to find new routes, increasing the incidence of conflict, observed the study.
 
 Surge in SHPs
 
 The study has also expressed concern over the increasing number of SHPs being built across rivers in Western Ghats and elsewhere. It cited the example of the 108-km-long Nethravathi, where 10 SHPs currently exist and 44 more have been proposed.
 
 “Currently, a new SHP is being constructed on Hongadahalla, the only free-flowing tributary in the area. Given that this region is an important watershed and part of the Western Ghats biodiversity hotspot, there is an urgent need to monitor, regulate and carefully evaluate the impact of large-scale infrastructure development”, noted Shishir.
 
 The study added that despite mounting evidence, the ministry of new and renewable energy has plans to build about 6,500 additional SHPs without any environmental and social regulations. Most of them are located within biodiversity hotspots of Western Ghats and Himalayas.
 
 
