Beware of  , was the message to the elderly women out on the road in   city as incidences of senior citizens being robbed of   ornaments by gangs posing as policemen continued to occur freely and the investigation agency remained clueless.

 The latest one, in which 80-year-old N Soundiram Aachi from   in   was cheated of nine and half sovereigns of gold ornaments by three men posing as policemen in Sivan Kovil Street, Kumaran Nagar, on January 28 underlined the urgent need to crack the whip on criminals.
 
 Going by the data available with the Trichy city police, the city witnessed a total of 31 cases of elderly women being conned by the tricksters on the road since 2013. The valuables lost in the incidents would run to roughly 100 sovereigns. Even though the incidences were considered as cases of attention diversion, police put them under the separate head of ‘stone folding’ because of the unique modus operandi.
 
 Old woman wearing gold ornaments are the prime target of the conmen. Their choice of location where there is lesser movement of people makes their job easier. They enact a drama as if they are helping the women to protect their valuables from chain snatchers and the women take the bait.
 
 Introducing themselves as policemen, they advise women to keep the jewels safe in their handbag and offer to help them wrap it in a piece of paper. Obviously, the frequent incidences of chain snatching would leave the naïve women convinced.
 
 In a jiffy, the men will hand over a parcel, which would contain small stones instead of the jewels. The cheating will come to light only when the women open the cover on reaching home. But then it would be too late. A police officer said the criminals usually keep their bikes not far from the scene of crime and flee soon after they strike. The perpetrators usually operate around noon when movement of the people on the roads would be minimal.
 
 KK Nagar police station limits topped the list with most number of the incidents from 2013 to 2017. The areas in the jurisdiction remained notorious for attention diversion cases as 10 cases were reported in five years. Nearly half of the incidents took place in 2015. Less crowded areas in the locality is one reason. The next vulnerable area is the jurisdiction of the Srirangam police station, which witnessed five cases from 2014 to 2017. The areas around the Srirangam temple were the conmen’s hunting ground. Of the 14 police station limits in Trichy city police, 10 police stations witnessed such cases. None of the investigating officers in these stations are pursuing the accused. All the cases are still under investigation.
 
 Police have asked the public to be vigil and avoid being duped by conmen. "We are on the lookout for the criminals who belong to similar groups operating in some other parts of the state. Meanwhile, we expect the people to be aware of such criminals and keep their valuables safe," said deputy commissioner of police, crime and traffic, Trichy city, A Myilvaganan.
 
 
