It takes a village to raise a child, the old saying goes. Like technology, our idioms also need to be updated with time. For the present era, “It takes a healthy village to raise a healthy child” would be a more appropriate maxim. It is increasingly important for parents to follow an active lifestyle, so that their children can also benefit from it. Recent research indicates that the health of a child is determined, in fact, even before he or she is conceived. This is especially true for obesity, the risk of which can be transmitted to the developing baby from a pregnant mother.

 Come pregnancy, and most women think that they are not eating right. Are my meds going to affect my baby? Do I really need to start a folic acid supplement to not get that neural tube thing my doc mentioned? Is my job and working hours a thing to worry about? Am I worrying too much? Some may be blissfully unaware of their chronic disorders (diabetes, hypertension, hypothyroidism, you name it) when they conceive, quite a few happen to be obese while others go right ahead with cigarettes and booze till the pregnancy test comes out positive and a tornado of questions hit their brains. 
 
 Obesity is well documented as a risk factor for heart disease and stroke, among other conditions. Most young expectant parents do not consider the state of their own health before planning a baby. Obesity during pregnancy is imminently harmful to the health of the mother and child. Even if the parents are not actually obese at the time of pregnancy, their lifestyle could indicate a risk towards developing obesity later in life, which can possibly be inherited by the child. Children whose mothers were obese during pregnancy are more likely to develop heart disease, stroke, diabetes, asthma and impaired brain development. 
 
 In fact, the number of preterm babies, and those with low birth weight, are on the rise. A lot of reasons can explain that - a rise in the maternal age, increased tobacco, drugs and alcohol (ab)use, obesity, chronic diseases and even infertility treatments account for some.
 
 In big terms, Preconception Care (PCC) is a set of interventions that aim to identify and modify biomedical, behavioral and social risks to the woman's health or pregnancy outcomes through prevention and management. What we’re really looking at is a wonderful opportunity for women and their partners to know and improve their health before they start trying for a baby. A healthcare provider helps assess the health, fitness and lifestyle, identifies key areas which may be a little off the mark and improves routine care for women throughout their lifespan by discussing contraception, fertility, and the interactions between their overall and reproductive health. With its long-term approach to the health of women and the problems that affect birth outcomes and maternal health on an ongoing basis, it is a much-needed complement to prenatal care that may successfully give better results and reduce unwanted pregnancies.
 
 PCC was meant primarily for women who had already experienced adverse pregnancy outcomes, but now it is an absolute necessity for all women with childbearing potential. PCC first benefits the health of the woman, and, should she become pregnant, the benefits are expanded.
 
 Although there is a scarcity of evidence on paternal preconception risk factors for adverse pregnancy outcomes, many researchers argue that PCC should be also directed at men. Seems now that even men will not be spared and quite rightly too. 
 
  A large-scale education drive on the far reaching impact of obesity is the need of the hour. Ignorance in this aspect of health is definitely not bliss.
 
 
 1. Godfrey KM, Reynolds RM, Prescott SL,et al., Lancet Diabetes Endocrinol. 2017 Jan;5(1):53-64.
 
 
 
 , MBBS, DNB (General Medicine), P.G. Diploma in Geriatrics, Consultant Geriatrician and Diabetologist, Dilkhusha Nursing Home, Kolkata.
 
  aarbeedoc@gmail.com
 
 
 
 
