This year, high school students upped the ante at the Arabic mono act event, where all participants took up a range of bold topics such as IS recruitment, child marriage and communalism. CT  , a judge at the event, said that the range of topics picked by students for the competition were all contemporary and relevant. And, these issues dominated the public sphere this year, he added.

 “One of the main drawbacks was that all students focused on just one emotion during their performance, namely sadness. Emotions such a diffidence and joy took a backseat. Participants must try to utilize a range of expressions and emotions when they narrate their story,” said Mohammed, who added that students must also be the careful while signifying ‘gender’ in Arabic.
 
 As many as 17 students from across the state arrived in   to take part in the final round of the event, where they used the Arabic language to narrate stories that relevant in India.
 
 Fidha VP, a Class VIII student from GHSS Karuvarakundu, Malappuram, presented the story of Junaid Khan, a victim of the Ballabgarh lynching. The 16-year-old was assaulted along with his brothers on a Mathura-bound train in June 2017. He died from his injuries.
 
 “I came up with the idea after hours of brainstorming with my mother and teacher. Once that was done, the next challenge was to present the story on stage and do a little justice to the experience of his family and friends,” said Fidha, who was awarded an A grade for her performance.
 
 Meanwhile,   TP, a Class X student studying at Parudur HS Pallipuram in   took up atrocities against women as her theme. She told the story of a daughter and her single mother, who was murdered by her neighbour when she tried to stop him from sexually abusing her child.
 
 “In the story, the girl has known this man all her life. He was the neighbour. Through this play, I wanted to highlight the condition where some people cannot trust anyone, regardless of how close their relationship might be,” said Shinas, who was also awarded an A grade for her performance.
 
