HYDERABAD: Acknowledging the need to comprehensively hear pleas pertaining to Right to Education (RTE) Act, that mandates even private schools to provide 25% reservation to the poorer sections, the Hyderabad High Court on Tuesday directed states of   and   to explain steps taken to implement the Act along with the reasons for their failure to do so till now.

 The bench of acting Chief Justice Ramesh Ranganathan and Justice K Vijaya Lakshmi which took up a letter written by Y Thippa Reddy of   in   district as a public interest petition clubbed it along with another PIL filed by   Thandava who was fighting for the implementation of the Act.
 
 
 Arguing his case as a party in person, Yogesh told the court that, “private schools are not worried about the 25% reservations to the poor as the government would reimburse the fees of this 25% children (sic)”. He alleged that, “Their real fear was about section 18 of the RTE Act which makes it mandatory for the district education officers to accord recognition only to such schools which furnish the details of fee collected by them, the details and stature of their faculty, the infrastructure facilities they possess etc. The DEOs are supposed to keep these details online in the education department’s website for public to scrutinise. The DEOs are simply ignoring the RTE Act and are according recognition to schools under a GO issued in 1993. Their actions are unlawful in view of the RTE Act which is a central act and hence it prevails over all other existing laws and rules.”
 
 Yogesh also charged the AP government with conniving with private schools. There, a minister owns a private education institutions group. The education minister has become his relative. He said the tacit understanding was the reason why the state was keeping quiet without filing counters even when private educational institutions were approaching courts and obtaining stay orders on implementation of the Act.
 
 AP’s counsel refuted theses allegations and said that they had filed their counter. Yogesh told the bench that he did not receive the counter so far in his own case. The bench directed the state counsel to furnish a copy of the counter to the petitioner.
 
 The bench said there is a need to club related pleas and hold a comprehensive hearing. It sought to know from the petitioner as to which other states are implementing the Act. Yogesh said Delhi, Karnataka and several other states are. The bench sought counters from authorities in Thippa Reddy plea and posted the case to three weeks.
 
