
 Koffi Mechac could have so easily pulled on the   jersey this season and not attempt to pull them down when the Kolkata giants play   SC in a   encounter at the Tilak Maidan in Vasco on Monday.
 
  The Ivory Coast striker who finished as the top scorer in the Oman Professional League just two seasons ago was “offered” to East Bengal officials at the start of the season but was refused with a polite, no thank you. His representatives were surprised why East Bengal refused a player of such quality – compared to others in the rank – and knocked on the doors of Churchill Brothers when it became clear they needed someone to bail them out.
  
  “For us, he is the inspiration now. We have been creating a lot of chances but nobody to finish them. With his quality and experience, he looks like just what the doctor ordered,” Churchill coach Alfred Fernandes told TOI on Sunday.
  
  Churchill need inspiration quickly if they have to move out of the hole they have dug for themselves. With no point from their first five matches, it’s going to be another tall order to open their account against visiting East Bengal, although Alfred remains confident, given their away performance against the league leaders.
  
  “We scored just two goals and both were against East Bengal. They needed a 97th minute goal to defeat us at home. It’s true they have lot of potential match winners but we can get something out of this game,” said Alfred.
  
  The man who can spark a turnaround, if at all, is Koffi. The Ivory Coast striker, apart from his goal-scoring record in Oman, has had fruitful spells in Saudi Arabia, Algeria and UAE, and remains confident of another success story in India.
  
  “I am not bothered about what has happened in the past, either with my own record (in Oman), or at Churchill Brothers. It doesn’t bother me that they have lost all five games. We must start afresh,” said Koffi, who is certain to start the match along with two other new signings – Jovel Martins (FC Goa) and Wayne Vaz (FC Pune City) – on either flank.
  
  East Bengal coach Khalid Jamil admitted he has no clue how Churchill would line-up with so many new arrivals but was left in no doubt that it won’t be easy to walk out with full points.
  
  “Very difficult to play Churchill at home. We were lucky, you can say, in the home game,” said Jamil.
  
  With 17 points from eight matches, East Bengal are now the favourites to win their first I-League title ahead of archrivals   who put it across them in the derby. Since then, there has been a massive change in fortunes.
  
  “With East Bengal, the expectations are (always) high. The fans want hundred percent (win) results. You can say there is too much pressure, but it’s all right. We must work hard and don’t take anything lightly,” said Jamil.
  
  With Churchill’s new arrivals, this battle could be closer than what the gulf in standings suggest.
