Virudhunagar: In order to prevent the outbreak of bird flu in the district, officials have been instructed to ensure that poultry, poultry feed and eggs coming from Karnataka without proper certification be returned immediately and that nobody should handle them. Convening a meeting with officials of the animal husbandry department to discuss the precautions to be taken to prevent the spread of bird flu from the region, collector A Sivagnanam said that any farming equipment, poultry feed and gunny bags sent through organisers or distributors in Karnataka should not be allowed into the district. He said that officials and village administrative officers should be ready to deal with any emergency, if there is any bird flu outbreak in the district. Revenue staff, self-help groups and poverty alleviations associations should also be ready to help, to destroy disease-affected fowls by implementing scientific methods. Any death of poultry birds should be immediately informed to officials of the animal husbandry department. Distribution of birds by trucks with registration from Kerala in weekly markets in the villages should also be monitored and tracked, he said. He said that the H5N1 virus was responsible for the spread of the H1N1 flu and it has now been identified that the virus had undergone a mutation and was spreading the disease. There were chances of the disease spreading to humans from the birds and if any person working in a poultry farm comes with symptoms of flu they should be admitted to a special ward and monitored properly, Sivagnanam said. Any death of birds in sanctuaries should be informed and it should be ensured that birds and animals reared in farms do not enter the forest areas, he said. The collector also listed out precautions to be followed by poultry farmers including preventing migratory birds like herons and storks from feeding in the water baths in the farms. It should be ensured that the birds in the farm were of the same age. He said that 33 rapid response teams are kept ready to face any emergency. 