Gurgaon: More than a week after the Supreme Court passed its judgment in the  , there are no clear directions from the state government regarding the agency which would receive the claims forms from homebuyers and farmers who have to be reimbursed.

 The apex court had ruled the disputed land would now vest with HSIIDC/Huda. 
 
 Any claims by homebuyers for properties they had bought, or by farmers for land they had lost, would have to be submitted with the appropriate agency within a month from the date of judgment (March 12). 
 
 The order further stated all homebuyers who have brought properties on the projects developed on the affected land, may submit their claims with these agencies within a month of the judgment. The claims have to verified by the agencies within two months from the day of judgment.
 
 However, neither of the two departments involved have received any official intimation about who would handle claims. 
 
 “We’ve not received any official communication from headquarters as yet,” said Divya Kamal, GM, HSIIDC, Manesar. 
 
 The HSIIDC Manesar office had planned to assess and keep records of the disputed land ready, but even that has been put on hold.
 
 Huda officials too, haven’t received any directions, even as homebuyers and farmers continue to flock both offices seeking clarity. 
 
 Homebuyers are particularly worried about the lack of clarity, what with many of them being NRIs, who had flown down just for the tribunal, and are scheduled to leave the country soon. 
 
 “As it is, we’re unsure about the fate of our properties. The inaction on part of the government is making things worse for us,” said someone who had booked a flat in DLF Express Greens, requesting anonymity. He said they have visited offices of both Huda and HSIIDC, and got no clarity. 
 
 Meanwhile, the farmers are planning to approach Gurgaon district court for their compensation, as directed by the Supreme Court, which had ruled that the acquisition of around 400 acre of land was done maliciously, and ordered the transfer of the land from the developers to HSIIDC or Huda as the opening step towards eventual restoration/compensation.
 
 “Ten days have passed since the Supreme Court judgment, but the state government is yet to identify which among Huda or HSIDC will carry out the court’s directions. “Some buyers of DLF Express Greens have visited offices of both agencies. With only 20 days left for them to file their claims, they are justifiably worried and distressed,” said another homebuyer.
 
 
