BENGALURU:  , who ruled a million hearts, had fond memories of Bengaluru as many of her films were shot in the city. The popular actor passed away in Dubai late Saturday night.

 Having acted in only six Kannada films, her connection with the state was limited. But she always cherished the memories of her early life when she acted in Kannada films as a child.
 
 “I have acted as a child artiste and young girl in Kannada films, but I never got to doing many roles as the lead actress here,” Sridevi had said in an interview to Bangalore Times, when she walked the ramp as a showstopper at the Bangalore Times Fashion Week 2017 in October.
 
 After she appeared as a child artiste in Rajkumarstarrer Bhakta Kumbara in 1974, Sridevi featured as the heroine in Priya, directed by acclaimed Tamil movie maker S P Muthuraman. Bala Bharata, Sampoorna Ramayana, Yeshoda Krishna and Hennu Samsarada Kannu were the other Kannada films she acted in.
 
  
  
 Veteran filmmaker and chairman of Karnataka Chalanachitra Academy S V Rajendra Singh Babu said Sridevi couldn’t act in more Kannada films due to time constraints as she was the reigning star of Hindi, Tamil and Telugu films. “Moreover, the Kannada film industry couldn’t afford such a big star in terms of remuneration. But fans here enjoyed her performances,” he added.
 
 Babu said he had plans to cast her in a film based on H K Ananth Rao’s novel Apoorva, but the project was not launched because of Sridevi’s non-availability.
 
 The ongoing Bengaluru International Film Festival (Biffes) paid rich tributes to Sridevi and a minute’s silence was observed before the start of the first show on Sunday.
 
 “She was younger to me by a year. But I was her fan and enjoyed her pairing with  . It is our pride that an actress from South India went on to become the No. 1 actress in Hindi films,” actor   said in a message.
 
 While talking to Bangalore Times, Sridevi had said she was delighted to take part in the fashion show as it provided her an opportunity to revisit the city.
 
 Chief minister Siddaramaiah was among others who ex pressed condolence.
 
