The government has repeatedly brought out circulars that police verification of a school’s staff and teachers is a must and yet a person with criminal antecedents was recruited as a teacher at the  .

 Firoz Khan was arrested from his Ambernath residence by the Amboli police in the early hours on Tuesday. Khan, who runs Brilliant Classes there, leaked five papers from Kids Paradise, the police said. Besides history & political science that he leaked on Monday, he leaked algebra on March 10, geometry on the 12th, science-I on the 14th, and Science-II on the 16th.
  
  
 The others to be arrested are Khan’s aides, office boy Imran Shaikh (45) and IT student Anwarun Hasan (21). Two persons are on the run: Vinita Khatwani, aka Vinita Madam, who runs a coaching centre at Ulhasnagar and whose name surfaced on Monday; and Mona, aka Mona Bhabhi, who is a coaching tutor and is possibly known to Khatwani.
 
 The arrests were possible because of an invigilator, Sandhya Pawar, at MVM High School, Andheri (west). She got suspicious on noticing three students at the exam centre referring to their books and their cellphones simultaneously. This was around 10.35am on Monday, exactly 25 minutes before the history & political science paper was to begin. Pawar informed a senior at the centre. The board was contacted and a complaint registered with the Amboli police around 5.30pm. In her complaint, Pawar said, “I was in the exam hall when I noticed three students standing in the corridor outside the hall watching their mobiles and checking their books. Out of curiosity I checked with them and they stood shocked and scared on seeing me. I checked the mobile of one of the students and found that the paper with the code (N 246) had been posted on his Instagram. I alerted the incharge of the centre and seized the student’s mobile.”
 
 The student was questioned, and the Instagram forward was traced to another student. An inspection of this boy’s phone led to Hasan, who led to more students at Grant Road, Sion and Badlapu, and also to Khan and Shaikh.
 
 The head of Kids Paradise, Zakiya Shaikh, said, “The question papers arrive around 9am, and are on my table. No one is allowed to touch them. We start opening the bundles only at 10am. Khan could have been getting the papers from outside.”
 
 The racket came to light on Monday when invigilators at Sacred Heart School, Kalyan, were informed by some students that the history & political science paper had been leaked by a coaching class. The school filed a complaint with Titwala police.
 
 The Amboli police are collecting information from their Titwala counterparts about the role of Khatwani and Mona. “We have seized 11 cellphones from the 11 adults and minors booked in the case. Call data records have been sought from their service providers,” said an officer.
 
 A state board official said the board has little or no control on staff of private schools who are part of exam conducting teams. “Private school staff don’t fear losing their jobs. The education department can't take action against them. We have to wait for the courts to give orders.”
 
 Subhash Borse, in-charge secretary of the state board's Mumbai division said, “We will conduct our own inquiry and take action against any exam machinery personnel involved.” The investigation team, comprising ACP D Bhargude, senior inspector Bharat Gaikwad, inspector Ravindra Salunke, investigating officer Daya Nayak, and sub-inspector Abhijit Jadhav, was led by DCP (zone IX) Paramjit Singh Dahiya.
 
 
 
