Being on a pricking therapy for seven years, Satminder experienced many health side effects. She decided to change her medical condition and with no cheat meals in her initial fitness journey, she dedicatedly followed her healthy diet and workout regime. Thus, she not only shed kilos, but got healthier and got rid of PCOD. Now, her goal is to inspire those who are struggling to  . Here she tells what she went through and how she coped up with her illness and became fit and healthy.

 
  Satminder Kaur Dhindsa 
 
 
  Software engineer / Nurse 
 
 
  27
 
 
  98 kilos
 
 
  37 kilos
 
 
  7 months 
 
 
 : When I decided to transform myself and to change my lifestyle, from a patient of PCOD to a regular healthy girl. In December 2016, my weight was 98 kilos and I was on regular medication and injections for PCOD. There were severe side effects of these medicines like hard facial hair, breast lumps and delayed menstruation cycles. I got pricked for seven years. Those years were terrible for me. People used to call me fat and that is when I decided to lose weight and started gymming and diet. 
 
 
 : Boiled whole eggs with cheese
 
 
  Boiled soya chunks with egg omelette cooked in coconut oil or butter with little spices
 
 
  Boiled eggs and paneer. As it was a ketogenic diet, it was high in fats and almost zero in carbs with a moderate amount of protein content. Eggs and paneer were my major source of protein and for fat, I used coconut oil or butter. I also used to have whey protein post workout.
 
 
  I didn’t cheat for 7 months, initial period when I was losing weight. I used to experiment many recipes which helped me in not getting bored of my regular diet.
 
 
  
  
 
 
  I used to workout 6 days a week, with both morning and evening sessions. Generally, I used to do empty stomach fasted state cardio in morning for 3 days and HIIT (high-intensity interval training) for the other 3 days. For evening sessions, I used to do strength training or weight training for all 7 days, including 2 muscles per day.
 
 
  Chest + Triceps 
 
 
  Shoulder + Biceps + Traps 
 
 
  Legs + Abs 
 
 I repeat the above for next 3 days. I didn’t get involved much in slow steady state cardio as overdoing it can cause muscle loss. Maintaining muscles is also important for fat loss.
 
 
  Egg white omelette made in butter and spinach smoothie. These two low calories recipes helped me a lot as I was already on low calorie diet. To suppress cravings, I preferred spinach smoothie as it is extremely low in calories and keeps you full for a longer duration. Also, it helps in digestion of food and has many nutritional benefits too.
 
 
  Sticking to your diet and workout is the biggest thing. Results do take time but giving 100 per cent is all you can do. Never compare your results with others as their bodies are different. Compare your results with what you were yesterday and you will never think of quitting as you must be better than what you were the previous day. 
 
 
  Mirror was my biggest motivation. Even scale may not show you the results but mirror does. I was getting results and it was becoming like an addiction for me. The goal was always in my mind. I didn't want to get those side effects of PCOD medicines. No one else can motivate you. Your motivation comes from inside.
 
 
  I keep on experimenting different recipes so that I don’t get bored of my diet. I always keep a track of my weight and inches.
 
 
 Being overweight comes with a lot of problems and lifestyle induced diseases such as heart problems and PCOD. It reflects that you are not leading a healthy lifestyle. When I used to be overweight, I didn’t fit in my favourite dresses. I used to avoid public gatherings and socializing. I didn’t like moving much. These were most difficult parts of being overweight. 
 
 
  When I was suffering from PCOD. I was getting severe side effects of its medicines like breast lumps and facial hair. I was completely dependent on medicines and was getting closer to being depressed day by day.
 
 
 : I want to become an athlete and a nutrition consultant. I also want to inspire people with my physique.
 
 I am a foundation certified nutrition consultant from INFS and looking for certification from ISSA in sports nutrition and training. I want to help people in getting their desired body and their fitness goals. Also, I have a dream of travelling the whole world.
 
 
  We should always keep tracking calories that we eat. We should indulge ourselves in any kind of physical activity or strength training. People should avoid junk and food items containing high amounts of sugar. It’s your lifestyle that could make you overweight and to cure it, you will have to change it.
 
 
  Now, I am an inspiration for many people who are seeking weight loss. I have cured my PCOD and have stopped taking medicines and injections for that. Now, I keep a track of my eating habits and I am still on a healthy diet and maintain the same consistency that I used to before. All I want to say is that keep going through all the struggles and face them. The harder the struggle is, the better the results will be.
 
 
 
 
 
