MYSURU: Stepping up his attack on the   government on his home turf, Prime Minister   on Monday asked a rally in Mysuru to choose between a "commission sarkar" and a "mission sarkar",

 
 At a rally in Bengaluru on February 4, the PM had accused the Siddaramaiah government of being a "10% commission sarkar", indicating it was corrupt.
 
 At the   rally at Maharaja's College grounds in Mysuru on Monday, Modi said: "People were upset and I got calls and messages after my 10% commission remark. They told me, 'You are wrong.' When I questioned them, they said the commission the   government takes 'is more'."
 
 Modi brushed aside the   CM's challenge to prove his allegation. He said: "Now I've come to understand people are being robbed in the state in the name of commission."
 
 Urging Mysureans to unseat the Congress government in the forthcoming elections, Modi said: "Mysureans carry a blemish of supporting a corrupt leader. It is their responsibility to get rid of the blemish."
 
 Modi claimed that BJP governments work with a mission. "Choose between commission and mission. It is my mission to take Karnataka forward," he said.
 
 He again spoke about the cash-and-diary episode, saying, "We still don't know what's in the diary. As long as it's in power, the Congress government will continue to ruin the state. The Congress is in power for more than five decades, yet it hasn't fulfilled the promises made to the people of the state. How can people trust the party? It thinks only of 1.5x1.5ft CM's gaddi (seat) than people's welfare."
 
 In his 50-minute speech in Hindi, Modi urged party workers to reach out to all households with an appeal to vote for the BJP in the assembly elections.
 
 He started and ended his speech in Kannada. Modi also announced the launch of the Rs 6,400 crore six-lane Bengaluru-Mysuru expressway, aimed at cutting down travel time between the two cities, as well as a satellite railway station at Naganahalli on the outskirts of Mysuru to help operate additional trains.
 
 The announcement came at a BJP rally after the launch of two railway projects in the city - electrification of the Bengaluru-Mysuru rail line and flagging off of the Humsafar Express connecting Mysuru to Udaipur at the Mysuru railway station.
 
