NEW DELHI: While the cops were busy probing the tragic   of a school van on Thursday near   metro station, a driver of a private   hit two school students and three parents in front of a school in Bharat Nagar, barely a kilometre away from the previous spot. One of the parents turned out to be hero after she helped police nab the driver.

 Police say that the incident had happened around 7am, when three men in a Santro drove zigzag near gate number 1 of   in the area. Locals say that the driver of the car, later identified as  , seemed inebriated and drove towards a closed gate of the school and suddenly slammed the brakes.
 
 The woman, who had come to drop her child to the school, confronted the youths and tried to force them to stop the car. To get away from her, Verma tried to reverse the vehicle at a high speed and hit the two students, Taaniya (7), Aastha (8) and the woman. He then drove forward and hit two other parents dropping off their wards.
 
 The woman, in the meantime, managed to get up and run after the car. She opened the door of the vehicle and pulled Verma out by his collar. By this time, a crowd had gathered and managed to force Verma to stop the vehicle. He and his companions were thrashed and Verma was handed over to the police. While the other two women suffered minor injuries, the girls were taken to a hospital for treatment.
 
 During interrogation, Verma told the cops that he had recently learnt to drive and could not reverse the vehicle properly.
 
    footage of the incident has been recovered from the spot which showed Verma reversing the vehicle at shigh speed, and hitting the woman. He then panicked and tried to flee in vain as the gate at the end of the road was locked. Police say that he has also damaged several vehicles during the incident.
 
 Police said Verma is the son of a property dealer and stays in Tri Nagar near Keshavpuram. He has been charged under sections of negligent driving and causing hurt due to negligence. The car has been impounded by the cops.
 
 
