RAJKOT: Eight persons who had fired on gangster Iqbal Nayak alias Bathiyo (41) on   Road near Ghanteshwer area of Rajkot on the night of February 6 were arrested on Wednesday. 

 Accused Razak Chawda alias Sopari (42), Hussein Chawda (37), Amin Notiyar (39), all residents of Dholia-Bhunga area in Jamnagar, and Sadiq Buchad (31), a resident of Satellite Society in Jamnagar, were nabbed from Wankaner boundary on the highway near Rajkot. Police recovered a car from their possession. 
 
 “During their interrogation, the accused revealed the names of their four accomplices leading to their arrest from Jamnagar. They were identified as Rehan Belim (25) from Patanivad area, Ilyas Malek (33) of Kalavad Gate, Imtiyaz Baloch (27) of Mayurnagar and Shahbaz Kungada (27) of Patel Colony. We recovered two cars, a pistol and three live cartridges from them,” Gandhigram police station inspector H R Bhatu said. 
 
 Iqbal, a resident of Nageshwer Road in Jamnagar, was shot at by Razak Chawda alias Sopari and Hussein Chawda. Their associates Sadiq Buchad, Amin Notiyar and other had also been booked. The assailants had come in three cars. They chased Iqbal’s car and stopped him on Jamnagar Road, some 12 km from Rajkot between Ghanteshwer and Parapipariya villages, and fired indiscriminately at him from their firearms. 
 
 “Whether the firearms used in the attack were automatic guns is yet to be ascertained. Fortunately for Iqbal, he managed to dodge all bullets and survived the attack without any injuries,” Gandhigram police station inspector M D Chandrawadia said.
 
 The attack was the result of an old enmity between Iqbal and Sadiq. Iqbal and Sadiq’s father Abdul Buchad used to drink alcohol together. Tired of his father’s drinking habit, Sadiq called up Iqbal and scolded him. Incensed at this, Iqbal went with a firearm and fired on Sadiq two months ago. However, the bullet hit Amin, who was injured. 
 
 Iqbal was booked for the crime and sent to Rajkot Central jail two months ago. On February 6, a sessions court in Jamnagar granted bail to Iqbal. When he was driving out of the jail premises in his car, his rival gang members followed him in their cars and attacked him.
 
 
