Kolhapur: The civic administration on Friday sealed 44 shops in the Shahu cloth market area where a commercial complex with private investment is proposed.

 Massive police force was deployed in the area. Traders were infuriated with the sudden action initiated by Kolhapur Municipal Corporation’s estate department. The traders here have been conducting their business since 10 to 12 years after being shifted from Bhausingji road. 
 
 With assistance from police, KMC officials evacuated the shops and asked the traders to vacate before sealing them. Notices had been issued to the traders a month ago—the deadline ended on Thursday. KMC had proposed the construction of the commercial complex five years ago and even agreed to let traders have their own units in the complex. The complex will be built on a total area of one acre and is considered to be the prime spot for business activities. 
 
 Pramod Barale, estate officer of KMC said, "The traders are illegally occupying the area. Since last two years, we have issued several notices to them. A month ago, we sent a final notice asking them to evacuate the place. The process of hiring the private contractor to set up the complex is in the last phase."
 
 The traders claimed that KMC has not given the assurance to relocate them in written and just promised orally that shops of ten square metre will be provided to them once the new complex is built. "We expected the intervention of elected representatives as they had promised us to relocate first before taking any action. Now, we are out of business. There is no mention of relocation in the design for the new commercial complex," said one of the traders. 
 
 KMC has proposed commercial centres at three other places—Patankar High School, Lakshmipuri Grain Market and Tararani Market. The designs of all the commercial markets are ready. The issue of relocating the traders is complicated, thereby delaying the construction of the commercial complexes. KMC aims to generate revenue by leasing out the shops to private parties. 
 
 
