CHANDIGARH:In a twist to investigation into the attack on   finance minister Captain Abhimanyu’s residence during the February 2016 Jat violence, the Punjab and Haryana high court has asked the Haryana government to explain if rules were followed while intercepting calls of the accused allegedly involved in the case.

 The high court has also asked Haryana to inform it “whether the private telephone companies were made aware of the decision to intercept calls and if they were conscious of such exercise being undertaken in respect of a particular customer.”
 
 The high court asked for these details from the state government “to know if the phones were tapped legally” by the law enforcement agencies in Haryana during the Jat agitation.
 
 The high court query has huge ramifications as a large number of youths were booked for the attack on Captain Abhimanyu’s house on basis of mobile calls intercepted by the police. In its order released on Tuesday after April 20 hearing, Justice   of the high court sought these details from the Haryana government after the CBI told the court that the call intercepts were provided by the Haryana police, which had initially registered a case before it was transferred to the bureau.
 
 
 
 
 The matter had reached the high court in the wake of an anticipatory bail plea filed by  , one of the accused named in the FIR.
 
 During the 2016 Jat agitation for reservation, Captain Abhimanyu’s house was attacked and set on fire. A crowd of agitators smashed, destroyed and looted articles worth crores of rupees lying in the house, including cash and jewellery. Initially, the case was registered in Rohtak police station, but later was handed over to the CBI.
 
 On April 2, during a hearing of Rathi’s bail plea, the high court was told that names of some accused had surfaced in phone calls intercepted by the Haryana police.
 
 CBI counsel Sumeet Goel told the court that the record of such calls is available in a sealed cover and offered to show it to the court.
 
 On this, Justice Rajan Gupta asked whether interception of phones was done in accordance with the guidelines, if any. On this, Goel submitted that the   had laid down broad parameters under which the state can resort to such measures in a case titled, People’s Union for Civil Liberties (PUCL) vs. Union of India.
 
 On this, the Haryana government counsel sought some time to go through this judgment as well as other precedents and address the court on the issue.
 
 When the matter came up for hearing on April 20, the Haryana government sought more time to respond. Now, the high court has asked Haryana to respond on the issue by May 1.
 
