KOLKATA: An 18-year-old migrant labourer from   who returned from Bengaluru three days ago has been kept in the isolation ward of   as a precautionary measure in the wake of the   outbreak in Kerala. Health department officials, however, said they do not suspect him to have been infected by the virus.

 
  
  
 
 Sources in the hospital said   will be kept in isolation till doctors get the report of his blood and urine samples. Sheikh, a resident of Tokipur in Murshidabad, had gone to Bengaluru two and a half months ago to work as a mason. Suffering from fever for about 20 days without any improvement despite medication, the boy was asked to come back home for treatment. He reached his Murshidabad home on Tuesday.
 
 “We initially took him to Beldanga Gramin Hospital on Wednesday morning, from where he was referred to Murshidabad Medical College. He was then shifted to ID Hospital. We have not been told what he is ailing from, but he has been kept in the isolation ward,” said the patient’s uncle  .
 
 At ID Hospital, Shafikul was initially admitted in the general ward after his arrival around 7pm on Wednesday. By Thursday morning, however, he was quarantined in the isolation ward.
 
 “The progress of the Nipah virus infection is very fast, attacking the respiratory system and brain function. But since the patient has been suffering from fever for almost three weeks, it is highly unlikely that this is a case of Nipah virus. But all care providers have been asked to be on alert for any suspect,” said a source in ID Hospital.
 
 The relatives of the patient have been asked to wear masks while visiting him. According to experts, the human-to-human transmission can be fast, hence the need to be on guard.
 
 “The human-to-human transmission of Nipah virus is through droplet from the infected and it progresses really fast and affects the brain within two days of infection,” said Dr Bhaskar Narayan Chaudhuri, consultant microbiologist at Fortis Hospital Anandapur.
 
 Health department officials said: “He came back from Bengaluru where there is no outbreak. Additionally, there is no other symptom apart from the fever. But it is good if the hospital has taken precautionary measures,” said a health department official.
 
