VARANASI: District police claimed to have worked out the May 3 double murder case of Sarnath by arresting two youths with two pistols on Saturday. Search for four other accused was intensified after the arrested youths disclosed their identity. 

 SSP R K Bhardwaj said, "A team of crime branch, Sarnath and Chaubeypur police nabbed   and Ashish Rajbhar near Sarnath railway station on Saturday afternoon when they were about to catch a train for leaving Varanasi. Two pistols used in killing Basanta Yadav and his son Rajesh on May 3 night were recovered from them."
 
 He added that a youth, who worked as salesman for Basanta, ascertained the identity of the arrested youths and confirmed their involvement in the killings.
 
 Basanat along with his son Rajesh used to run a make-shift food outlet near a liquor shop in Rajnahia area of Sarnath. "On the night of May 3, a group of motorcycle-borne miscreants had opened indiscriminate fire on them and fled the scene. Basanat was found dead at his shop the same night while body of Rajesh was recovered from a nearby orchard the next morning," police said.
 
 Bhardwaj said that during initial interrogation, Niraj and Ashish divulged that they were consuming liquor near the Basanta's shop after purchasing some eatables from his shop. However, a dispute took place between them and Basanta at the time of making payment. 
 
 They said that Basanta and Rajesh had thrashed them following the dispute. The duo returned to their village in Cantonment police station area and informed their friends. The next day Pankaj Bharti, Prince Sharma, Raju Dharkar and Babu Rajbhar left Varanasi for Mumbai while they stayed back. Niraj confessed that he had killed Jai Prakash Patel, another food kiosk owner near a liquor shop on Cantt area, in 2016 and had gone to jail. He had purchased the pistol from Bihar while the pistol recovered from Ashish was stolen from someone in a marriage function on May 1. The SSP said that police teams have been engaged to nab other absconding accomplices of these two.
 
 
