In the latest episode of  , the doctors take   for some tests while Parth worries about her condition. Chutkan realizes that Teni's memory is affected.

 
  hurries to the hospital and Parth tells her that Teni was behaving in a strange manner on gaining consciousness. The doctor calls them into his cabin after getting Teni's MRI report. He tells them that the latter is suffering from selective memory loss due to which she is not able to recall a portion of her life.
 
 Chutkan says that Teni thinks she was brought here after she fainted in a dance bar two years ago. Shorvari gets worried as she fears that Teni would not recognize any of the family members. The doctor forbids them to pressurize her for anything.
 
 When Chutkan asks the doctor about Teni's mental state, he tells the former that, if stressed, Teni's brain nerves may cause a stroke and even in a comma.
 
 Back in the hospital room, Teni is happy to see Chutkan. When she tells him that she is worried about the bills he says they won't have to bear the expense. He cooks up a tale and tells her that when he was carrying her to the hospital a car hit them and the car owner brought them there. The owner will bear the expense. Teni tells him that she wants to meet them if there are present there.
 
  
 Teni holds her aching head and sends the nurse away. When the nurse says that she was instructed to stay with her in the room Shorvari signals the nurse to leave. Teni asks Chutkan to shut the door. Then she looks at Parth and says that he would have to pay for all the losses. She grabs his collar and before she could punch him on his face, Chutkan says he is the driver. Teni then approaches Shorvari and says that she must be the owner. Shorvari, who was reluctant to come close to Teni, tells her that they only wanted to take care of her.
 
 Teni says that since she won't be able to dance and sing for a few days, Shorvari must pay for at least twenty days' expenses. The latter promises to do the same. Then, Teni sends Parth to get juice for her and she dances around with Chutkan. Shorvari and Parth watch her from a distance.
 
