Hyderabad: The 26 th plenary of   ( ), which is meeting in Hyderabad for three days from February 9, is likely to discuss the need to impose social boycott on men misusing provisions of divorce, particularly triple talaq.

 AIMPLB is meeting in the city after 16 years. The board was formed in Hyderabad in 1973 after the need for an apex body on Muslim personal law was felt at a session of Muslim religious scholars in Mumbai in 1972. The executive of the board, however, held its session in Hyderabad in 2011.
 
 There has been a proposal with the board to slap social boycott on those misusing triple talaq. With Muslim scholars split on the issue, it could not move ahead. It is likely to come up for discussion at the board’s meeting here. Another major subject before the board is codification of model   (written agreement between bride and groom during marriage).
 
 Though there’s a proposal to make it mandatory for the groom to sign Nikahnama that he would not invoke triple talaq, scholars of different sects are yet to reach a consensus.
 
 The meet is likely to hammer out differences among scholars. They may discuss alleged misuse of fatwas on crucial issues. Taking a leaf out of Sangh Parivar’s social media strategy, the board for the first time will also chalk out a plan for an IT cell and fan out into social media, including WhatsApp and  , to create awareness about Islamic jurisprudence on two fronts – Muslims and non-Muslims.
 
 Among non-Muslims, the board will debunk the myth about Muslim laws. According to sources, the board plans to hire young IT professionals to run the campaign online.
 
 According to AIMPLB’s plenary media coordinator MA Majid, as many as 11 subjects would be discussed. “Muslim scholars cutting across sects are of the view the community is at a crucial juncture. It is faced with challenges from all sides.   is likely to resume Babri Masjid hearing on February 8. Centre plans to come out with a bill on triple talaq. In this backdrop, the plenary gains significance,” he said.
 
 The agenda includes mobilization of resources, taking stock of cases related to Sharia in various courts, including high courts and Supreme Court, initiation of community reforms, protection of Muslim identity and reconstruction of Babri Masjid. Various committees, including those of qazat, archaeology, sharia panel, legal affairs will submit their reports. A grand public meet with over one lakh people on February 11 would mark the end of the session.
 
