KOLKATA: Cops on Tuesday swung into action and took to task reckless pedestrians and unruly auto and bus drivers at   crossing, one of Kolkata’s busiest and accident-prone crossings, a week after TOI wrote about the problems plaguing the connector.

 TOI had on February 26 reported how pedestrians recklessly run across the street and scale median dividers right under the nose of policemen, who do nothing to stop them. The article also mentioned how unruly autos and buses pick and drop passengers from the middle of the road.
 
 On Tuesday, officers of Ultadanga traffic guard began a special drive against jaywalkers and reckless drivers, penalising offenders and forcing them to go by the rulebook. “We have been improvising traffic management at the crossing over the past several weeks. Recently, we have installed reflective lane dividers on the road, segregating bus and auto lanes. We have also started keeping cops in uniform as well as in civil dresses to nab anyone who violates the lane,” said a senior officer of the traffic guard. He further added that a set of officers have been deployed to counsel as well as penalize jaywalkers who have been found crossing the road instead of taking the foot overbridge.
 
 “The entire crossing is covered by a network of footbridges that allows pedestrians to move to any part of the road without requiring to take the risk of dodging past speeding vehicles. However, some unruly pedestrians still continue to do so. We are counselling some of them and are forcing them to take the footbridge and are also penalising repeat offenders,” said a sergeant at the crossing.
 
 TOI spotted several such jaywalkers crossing the road while speaking over cellphones or chatting with friends. A group of six constables and home guards were found nabbing them and penalising them accordingly.
 
 “To stop jaywalking, we have erected over 4ft high guard rails along the median divider. However, a bunch of unruly people still continue to scale over the high iron rails and try to squeeze through the small gaps. We have posted men in plainclothes and have started cracking down on them,” said the officer.
 
 The focus was brought back to Ultadanga crossing after a young woman in her early 30s, on her way to work, came under a private bus while she was trying to board it while on the run on February 19. The bus that was picking passenger from the middle of the road near   station kept moving as the woman ran and tried to hop on to the bus but slipped off the footboard and fell on the road. The rear wheel ran over her right arm and leg. She underwent multiple surgeries that forced her arm to be amputated and the leg still critically injured.
 
 “The bus lane near   station was shifted to the middle to accommodate the autos on the extreme left. We had made this arrangement to solve the problems with unruly autos who used to crowd near the crossing. But the accident have made us think on the arrangement and as of now we have posted policemen at the edge of the lanes to prevent any repeat of such incidents,” said a senior officer at Lalbazar.
 
 
