BENGALURU: A consumer court in Mysuru has ordered the Indian Railways to pay a compensation of Rs 37,000 to three members of a family who faced a 33-hour ordeal of travelling mostly standing inside a train as their reserved berths were illegally occupied by other travellers. Each of them had valid tickets worth Rs 740 each.

 Besides the fine, the railway staff, including the duty TTE and RPF personnel who failed to help the rightful passengers, came under severe criticism by the court.
 
 The journey on May 25, 2017 in the sleeper class of the   (12976) from Ujjain was a nightmarish one for Mysuru’s Siddartha Layout resident   and two of his family members.
 
 After boarding from Ujjain, they were perturbed to realize that their berths with three confirmed tickets on the S5 coach of the train were taken over by others in the compartment which was crowded by passengers travelling unreserved.
 
 
 
 
 As the 33-hour journey to Mysuru commenced, Vijesh desperately tried to regain the reserved berths from the illegal occupants by complaining tothecoachTTEwho, however, didn’t bother to heed him. He then took the matter to RPF personnel in the train, but got a tepid response.
 
 Vijesh then tried every available grievance redressal option of theIndian Railways, including helpline and SMS service, but all in vain. He even got down at Bhopal station in Madhya Pradesh and   in Telangana and physically lodged complaints to regain the berths reserved for his family, but no railway official would help.
 
 Though harried, Vijesh was in no mood to give up. After reaching  , he contacted the railway officials with a complaint, but only to be turned down, again. This time, the Railways cited territorial jurisdiction as the reason. Worse, he was told to go back to Ujjain, where he started the mindnumbing journey, to lodge a complaint.
 
 Irked by the responses of railway staff, Vijesh approached the District Consumer Disputes Redressal Forum in Mysuru on June 23, 2017 with a complaint against the South Western Railway’s division railway manager and the division commercial manager, both in Mysuru location where he booked three tickets for Rs 2,220.
 
 While Vijesh strengthened his case by submitting photographs of the overcrowded compartment and his family’s rightful seats taken over by illegal occupants, Mysuru railway authorities stood ground quoting Indian Railways’ territorial jurisdiction and requested the consumer court to dismiss the passenger’s plea.
 
 In a litigation lasting six months and 26 days, the judges slammed the Mysuru railways authorities by pointing out that Indian Railways is bifurcated into several divisions to provide better administration and optimum service to valid passengers and ensure them a safe and happyjourney. “Instead, the contention on lack of jurisdiction by its authorities is simply not justified,” the judges stated.
 
 In a verdict pronounced on Friday, the Mysuru consumer forum slammed the railways for its deficiency in service extended to the Mysuru family and ordered South Western Railway’s Mysuru division railway manager and division commercial manager to pay a compensation of Rs 37,000 to passenger Vijesh for the inconvenience and hardship caused to the family on train despite the family holding valid tickets.
 
 Railways have been ordered to pay the compensation within 60days, failing which the court imposed a daily penalty of Rs 200 until compliance.
 
 
