An English adaptation of Badal Sircar’s timeless Bengali classic Baaki Itihaas (The Other Side of History),   delves into the history of mankind — a plot that almost justifies death itself on stage, picking on the often mundane and self-centred life that we live. Set in 1960s Calcutta, the storyline opens on a Sunday morning when a writer couple Sharadindu and Basanti (played by Vishnu Mohan and Madhusree Baral) engage themselves in penning down theories about what could have led to the death of a certain 40-year-old   (enacted by  ), who had committed suicide and the news was out on that day’s newspaper. The seemingly bored couple who have been looking for an inspiration to rejuvenate their writing career finds it all in that piece of news. At the end of the story-writing exercise, two versions of a prequel to the suicide come to the fore — both the stories enacted on stage by Sagnik and Sanjukta Deb (Kanaa), along with Basu/Bijoy (played by Yashwanth Sathu) and a set of other actors Sanjay AR, Ramankur Deep Bhattacharya, Jacob Mammen, Suvojit Carmaker. Fiction meets reality, when the protagonist of the story confronts the writer. A Forum-Three presentation, A Matter of Life and Death is directed by  .

  
  A man has hanged himself to death, and no one knows why. The writer-wife unravels a narrative, in which the man in question resorts to kill himself after he realises that he is buried in debts and turns out to be a failure in front of his wife, who has somehow managed to revive herself from a disturbed childhood. Cut to reality, the writer-husband finds this version of the story melodramatic and presents his own version, in which Sitanath is haunted by some dark memories from the past. Devastated and inconsolable, he decides to kill himself. Heated arguments between Sitanath and Sharadindu form the crux of the performance, where the audiences are given an impression that if you’re leading a mundane life, it’s okay to just end it. The setting and backdrop of the two-hour-long A Matter of Life and Death takes you back in time, when life itself was slow-paced. Death and philosophy are the prime characters in the play, in which life finally succumbs. Bookish dialogues, thunderous monologues and the in-sync spotlights may have gone a little overboard. The director of the play, however, unintentionally stole the show, as he shouted at one of the actors on stage while the play was going on for a mistake which the audience would have otherwise overlooked. The director also stated he did not remember the names of his actors, and therefore referred to a leaflet to read out credits. Sigh! Nonetheless, all the actors have done a commendable job — particularly Sagnik, Sanjukta and Yashwanth. 
 
  
  This one is a heady and highly philosophical work! A little less dramatic approach to the classic tale could have helped to drive home the message in a better way in the contemporary world.
 
 
 
