Andres Escobar, the name evokes poignant reminder of a player who paid with his life for a defensive error in the 1994 World Cup. The Colombian defender scored an own goal in his team’s 1-2 loss to the US which ultimately saw his team being knocked out in the group stage itself. Just five days after he returned home, the 27-year-old was shot dead in his hometown Medellin reportedly for the own goal. It remains one of the most tragic incidents in World Cup history.

 
 
 
 On the field, destiny had cruel plans for Italian star Roberto Baggio.   could have been the hero for Italy in the US edition had he not missed a crucial penalty in the final against Brazil. Baggio, who could not score in Italy’s first three group matches and for 88 minutes against Nigeria, struck twice in the dying moments of their round of 16 game to take his side into quarters. He scored again against Spain in the quarterfinals to set up Italy’s semifinal showdown with Bulgaria.
 
 
 
 Bulgaria were the surprise package of the tournament and Golden Boot winner Hristo Stoichkov was their trump card. After beating former champions Germany in the quarters, Bulgaria came into semis with heavy expectations. But they ran into a red-hot Baggio, who scored another brace to take Italy into the finals against Brazil.
 
 Brazil were led by two brilliant strikers, Romario and Bebeto, and they registered victories over Russia and Cameroon in the group stage, defeated US in the round of 16 clash before beating the Netherlands in the quarters. Though the former champions were held to a 1-1 draw in the group stage by Sweden, Brazil had their revenge in the semis as they beat them 1-0 to make it to the final.
 
 In the final, both Italy and Brazil couldn’t find a goal in regulation and extra-time. Italy who had a bitter penalty shootout experience against Argentina in the 1990 World Cup semis, saw their fate again being decided on penalties. Brazil were leading 3-2 after four rounds of penalties when Baggio stepped up to take Italy’s final penalty. All eyes were on him and he had the chance to keep his side’s hopes alive in the shootout but pony-tailed star’s penalty flew over the bar and along with it Italy’s World Cup dreams.
 
 The US World Cup also witnessed Argentine legend Diego Maradona getting expelled from the squad after failing a drug test. Maradona was in the squad when the former champions won their first two group games but after he left the squad, they lost to Bulgaria 0-2 in their final group game and against Romania 2-3 in the round of 16 clash.
 
