THIRUVANANTHAPURAM: The victim of yet another incident of alleged police excess, a young doctor whose engagement had to be cancelled, petitioned chief minister  , national human rights commission and state police chief   seeking action against the sub-inspector and policemen of   police station in the capital. 

  native   said in her petition that her parents and other close relatives, who were on their way for her engagement, were harassed by the police and a false case was charged against her father.
 
 "I have sought action against the sub-inspector and other policemen. The policemen who were supposed to protect the general public, have caused us immense mental trauma. They harassed us," Harshitha said.
 
 Her father, Hakim Badaruddin said the police version to register a case against him was completely cooked up, and that he will fight for justice.
 
 "A   bus collided with our vehicle causing damaging the mirror. A policeman, who was a member of the special branch, travelling in the bus, sided with the bus driver against us. We thought the matter will be settled at the police station but what happened there was totally different from what we expected," he said.
 
 After the groom's parents, who were waiting for them, were informed the incident, the engagement party, as a group went to Pangode Police Station, where they encountered an indifferent attitude from the police. "All members of our family, including my father and other elders, some of whom were who were even cardiac patients, were made to sit in the lock-up," Harshitha said.
 
 She alleged that the police deliberately delayed producing her father, against whom several unnecessary charges were framed in the FIR, in court denying him bail. "He was remanded on Saturday, and finally got bail on Tuesday. Had he been produced in the court in Saturday itself, he would have been granted bail," she said.
 
 Meanwhile, Loknath Behera said that he has not yet received the petition. "I am yet to see such a petition. We will definitely inquire into it and take necessary action," he said.
 
 
