MUMBAI: Maharashtra, the   with the largest share of the tax base under the   ( ), has collected higher revenue since the new regime set in last July.

 Gross   revenues have grown 28.6% in the six months between July and December 2017 compared to the same period in 2016, shows data with the state GST commissioner. Highest increase of 51% was in October 2017.
 
 This, though, may not lead to major gains for the state. The increase of Rs 12,650 crore will be whittled down by at least Rs 1,000 crore after SGST refunds to dealers. Maharashtra will also have to compensate municipalities by Rs 13,000 crore for octroi and local body tax, which were scrapped in the GST regime.
 
  
  
 
 For the July-December period, this works out to Rs 8,600 crore. And there is no clarity yet on how much the state will receive as Integrated GST (IGST) settlement from the Centre for goods brought in from other states.
 
 The imposition of GST led to the scrapping of a host of indirect taxes, including VAT, octroi, LBT, luxury tax and entertainment tax.
 
 Along with GST, though, some revenues were retained, including VAT on petroleum and liquor as well as profession tax.
 
 Figures with the state GST commissioner show that Maharashtra’s indirect tax receipts were Rs 44,251 crore between July and December 2016 during the VAT regime. They rose to Rs 56,901 crore during the same span in the GST regime in 2017.
 
 Maharashtra’s GST collections have been among the highest in the country since it is a hub of the both the service and manufacturing sector, says state GST commissioner Rajiv Jalota. “Maharashtra is a major consumption centre since it is a hub of both manufacturing and the service sector. It is also a major consumer of high value white goods,” says Jalota. Besides, it has a large tax base and population, he adds. As many as 4.9 lakh new dealers have registered in the state since July.
 
 Maharashtra’s GST revenues, though, have fallen short by Rs 2,518 crore compared to the compensation base set by the Centre during the same period. Under the GST regime, states have to be compensated by the Centre if they fail to meet the 14% growth target in the taxes which were scrapped in the GST regime.
 
 For Maharashtra, the compensation base is set at Rs 6,552 crore monthly. In July and August 2017, the state was not eligible for Central compensation since it overshot this figure. The highest shortfall of Rs 1,002 crore in this span was recorded in December 2017. 
 
 Collections were higher in first few months after GST was introduced, but they fell later. This caused the shortfall to widen. Also, higher VAT refunds were given in the later part of the year, says Jalota. More revenues are expected in the next two months as IGST settlements are expected for goods imported from other states for use in Maharashtra.
 
