PATNA: Six   remained cancelled due to foggy weather even though visibility improved slightly at Jayaprakash Narayan International Airport, Patna, on Monday.

 All the six cancelled flights were of IndiGo, which were scheduled to fly to various locations, including Delhi, Kolkata, Bengaluru and Lucknow.
 
 Total 27 flights fly to and equal number from Patna under the revised winter schedule, which was made effective on December 1 and would continue till February 15.
 
 A tent was erected to accommodate passengers who crowded the airport premises due to delay in flight operations. Announcements were being made at frequent intervals about the status of flights in pursuance of directive issued by outgoing Patna DM   on Sunday.
 
 “A tent with 200 chairs was erected in front of the terminal building on Monday. Besides, we also provided six sets of mobile toilets and mobile charging points for passengers waiting for their flights. The flight operations were comparatively smoother with improved visibility,” Patna airport director Rajendra Singh Lahauria told TOI.
 
 Even though officials claimed flight operations were comparatively smother, a number of passengers said they were stranded at the airport for several hours. Bihta resident   had to wait for two days before getting a flight to Bangalore. “My   flight on December 30 got cancelled and I got a ticket in a flight today. Apart from the hassles in waiting at the airport, I also missed my office today,” Ravi said.
 
 Aurangabad resident   had to spend around Rs2,000 extra for staying at a hotel on Sunday night after his flight got cancelled in the evening. “My flight to Delhi was scheduled to depart from Patna at 5:05pm on Sunday, but I was informed at around 9pm about its cancellation. Then, I had to book a room in a hotel where I stayed with my wife and kid for the night. My flight is two hours late today as well,” Vinod said. 
 
 Sources said flight operations at the airport started around 2pm on Monday even though the scheduled timing for the same under winter schedule is from 10:30am. As per the visibility criteria owing to short length of runway, flights are allowed to operate only when the minimum visibility is 1200 metres.
 
 
