NEW DELHI:   will amplify its criticism of growing “political culture” under  , “attacks on institutions” and rural distress as it seeks to ready the party cadres with a potent message to take on the saffron camp in the coming assembly polls and the 2019 parliamentary contest.

 
 At the two-day   plenary session which gets under way on Saturday, aimed at showcasing new party president  , Congress plans to present a comprehensive case against the   government.
 
 Equipped with the “assessment of BJP regime”, the state leaders would be directed to disseminate the message to the lowest rung of the campaign ladder.
 
 Over two days, the attempt would be to ensure that Congressmen are not on the defensive on “corruption and development”— planks that Modi-led BJP has exploited successfully since the 2014 Lok Sabha elections. AICC would flag the scandals under Modi regime to accuse BJP of nexus with those who have “generated black money”.
 
 The party would also talk about the press conference of the four Supreme Court judges (in January) to say there was “disquiet in the functioning of the judicial system”.
 
 Congress believes it can whip up a strong campaign against the Modi dispensation by highlighting “rural distress” which paid rich dividends in the Gujarat polls. Besides political, international and economic resolutions, AICC would pass a resolution on farmers’ issues.
 
 These four documents have been written by Anand Sharma, P Chidambaram, Jairam Ramesh and Bhupinder Singh Hooda. The “Subjects Committee” of the AICC met on Friday to approve the programme.
 
 The format of the Congress conclave has been tweaked to better spotlight the “party’s ideology for the new generation”.
 
 Organisers have finalised three “panel discussions”: ‘Power of Truth’ (Kumar Ketkar as moderator), ‘Vision 2030’ (Sam Pitroda) and ‘Common Future, Common Struggle’ which would feature young leaders.
 
 With Rahul Gandhi in lead and veterans   and   supporting, Congress is eager to underscore the generational shift in the party. Rahul Gandhi’s first presidential speech would draw the curtains on the gathering. Sources said the session would see the party join the “ideological battle” with BJP.
 
 Amid concerns within that BJP would resort to a polarising campaign as in Gujarat polls, Congress members are planning to attack the Hindutva plank as being a political philosophy which was different from the “Sanatan Dharma Hinduism”.
 
