These are just a few among the innumerable incidents that have been happening in Kerala in the recent times, where I saw people being alarmingly apathetic and inhuman towards their fellow beings. To quote Dalai Lama, love and compassion are necessities, not luxuries. Without them, humanity cannot survive. Also, peace does not mean an absence of conflicts but solving these differences through peaceful means — dialogue, education, knowledge and through humane means.

 Humanity is the essence of a healthy society, and it is high time we gave it a thought. Have our fast paced lives made us cynical, hard-hearted and unkind? 
 
 I took a stroll through the streets of Kochi and spoke to a few citizens, a colleague, and also some prominent individuals to find solutions to the problem. 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 The traffic police tell us that we don’t need to worry if we take the victim of an accident to hospital. But at times, helping someone ultimately lands us in trouble. I had taken a woman, an accident victim, to hospital but at the hospital, they did not allow me or the passerby who accompanied me, to leave until someone took up her responsibility. We were stuck in the hospital till 9 pm at night and I returned home with zero earnings for the day. People like us depend on daily wages to make ends meet. It is true that there are rules, but they remain rules and authorities should ensure that they are followed. So it is not that we don’t want to help the needy but the 
 hospital staff should relieve us as soon as they take over.
 
 
 
 
 
  
 A life is more important than everything else. If ever you spot an accident, immediately take the victim to the nearest hospital. I assure you that the hospitals will do the needful. They are duty bound to inform the police and once the police reach, they will take over. Whoever accompanied the victim will be asked a few queries to gather the basic information but that is just part of the procedure. If you find that a hospital hesitates to admit a patient, call the police directly and action will be taken. The patient will be given the needed help.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 When we walk with friends of the opposite gender in public, we feel scared nowadays. The judgmental stares are intolerable. We face the same kind of moral policing when we return to our hostels late after extra classes. As the road to our hostel is a bit shady we ask our boy classmates to accompany us but we are invariably met with stares. People should be protective but not overprotective. Every Individual has the right to privacy and their space should be respected. People, and even the police, tend to react before trying to understand the situation. And whoever is concerned about us should also realise that we are with someone we trust. We have the right to our freedom in democratic India, and it is high time society understood that men and women can harmoniously co-exist. Not all relationships are about sex. 
 
 
 
 
 -
 
 As per the Indian Constitution, adults have all the freedom to walk, talk and dress the way they like and do whatever they wish. There is no law which supports moral policing in the Constitution. However, one should always keep in mind that with great power comes great responsibility. There are some reasonable restrictions to freedom. If a person walks on the road naked, it becomes obscene and a violation of law. One shouldn’t do anything that harms others, hurts another’s feelings or threatens the nation’s security. I don’t support moral policing at all, not from the public or from the police.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 My children have been raised without religion. I have always felt we should bring up our kids to think beyond religion, colour, caste and creed. People try to connect everything with these and are afraid to question irrational actions around. That’s because we have been conditioned right from birth to fear God. The fear of God is ingrained in us, not love. God is someone who nurtures, not punishes. To bring about a change in society, parents and teachers should take the first step. It is not always necessary to handhold our children the way our parents did. We should be a step ahead and tell our children that God resides within us and inside the people around us. Everyone is God and we should respect and love each other, overruling all barriers. Let love, not fear, take centre stage. At a time when religion decides even what we eat, won’t this help to inculcate humane values in our society?
 
 ‘Bring up children to be good human beings’ - 
 
 From childhood inculcate the idea that human beings are more important, not their caste, creed, or religion. But before teaching them, the teachers and parents have to set the right example. Teach children about love and compassion and to be good human beings. It would be difficult in the contemporary scenario but it should be instilled in their minds in a subtle way. If the young parents of today succeed in this, the future generations can be saved. Like Sree Narayana Guru said, all we need is one caste, one religion, one God for all mankind.
 
 
