LUCKNOW: UP cabinet minister and Suheldev Bharatiya Samaj Party (SBSP) chief OP   on Monday dared   to sack him and snap the alliance between the two parties, a day after he had been reprimanded for “maligning the Uttar Pradesh government” by the state BJP president.

 “I have only been speaking on behalf of Dalits and backward caste people who supported BJP in 2014 Lok Sabha and 2017 UP polls. I will not break the alliance or resign from the cabinet. Let BJP take a call… Jo baadal garajte hain woh baraste nahin,” Rajbhar told TOI while taking a jibe at state BJP chief Mahendra Nath Pandey.
 
 Later, Rajbhar tweeted: “Pichhdon aur garibon ke haq ki ladayi ladna agar galat hai to yeh galti hum baar baar karenge… hum satta ke liye rajniti nahi karte hain… hum picchhdon ke haq ke liye sangharsh karte rahenge chahe jo parinaam ho (If fighting for the rights of backward is wrong then I would continue to commit this mistake… we are not power hungry people… we will continue our struggle and will fight for the rights of backwards whatever be the consequence).” Rajbhar has also accused the   government of ignoring his suggestions at the cabinet meetings.
 
 Rajbhar’s remarks came a day after the state BJP held meetings to identify non-performing ministers in the Yogi cabinet. Pandey had asked Rajbhar to follow the “decorum” of a minister or “be ready to face action”.
 
 The party has a democratic set up and everyone has the right to speak, but on a proper platform, UP BJP spokesperson   said. “Rajbharji should issuing statements which malign our image,” he said.
 
 SBSP, which has presence in backward-dominated east UP region, won four seats, including one from PM Narendra Modi’s constituency Varanasi, in 2017. BJP’s another ally, Apna Dal, which won nine seats in 2017, has also accused the state government of discriminating against OBCs and Dalits. BJP, however, placated it by getting Apna Dal chief   nominated to the UP Legislative Council. Singh may get a ministerial berth in the Yogi cabinet.
 
