Nothing could be more annoying for a student than neighbours playing   while he/she is preparing for exams. Divya Chauhan, a class X student from Sector Alpha 1 in Greater Noida, faced the same problem while preparing for her first board examination that begins today. Wedding ceremonies, Holi, jagrans and youngsters partying all night – residents of some areas in   say that it gets a little difficult dealing with loud music before and during  , and they have to take measures to ensure students do not suffer. 

  
 Harinder Bhati, a social worker who lives in   1, says, "There are many   in our area and many a times we’ve had to approach them to turn down the volume, sometimes even after 10pm. During board exams, we take special care regarding this matter and take immediate action when we receive such complaints. Last week, a few residents of Sector C, Beta 1, complained about loud music being played in a nearby flat. They asked me to talk to the   living there to turn it down. When they refused to do so, I called the police. Such incidents are common in Greater Noida and residents often ignore them too, but when exams are on, no one excuses such behaviour."
 
 Rahul, another social worker and resident of Delta 1, says, "There is a   near our society. I have received a lot of complaints in the past regarding loud music being played there. It’s common practice to play music even after 10pm at that venue and residents usually ignore it. But during board exams, we get a bit strict and call the police everytime they exceed the time limit."
 
  
  
 
 
 Asha Chauhan, mother of Divya Chauhan, says, "Exam time is crucial and we don’t want our daughter to face any kind of problems while preparing for her 10th board exams. Usually, we ignore the loud music being played at parties, but during this time we can’t afford to be casual about it. Recently, when our neighbour organised a party and was playing loud music, we requested them to turn it down.Though they were not happy about it, we can’t let our daughter suffer because of this."
 
 
 Alok Singh, a resident of Sector Alpha 1, says, "A lot of engineering students live in our area and though many of them have gone home for Holi, we had asked those who were here to not play loud music on Holi. Also, since our area has a lot of PGs, students often play loud music and party all night. Usually, the residents hesitate to call the police as they do not want to cause any kind of trouble to the students. Instead, they call the president of the society and the social workers in the locality to talk to them. While most bachelors understand and turn it down, there are certain people who get into heated arguments with us. Also, I think that people living in gated societies do not face this problem as they function in an organised fashion and many of them have also imposed a blanket ban on leasing flats to bachelors."
 
  
  
 
 Morning is a crucial time for most of us, especially for students appearing for board exams, and Sector P3 of Greater Noida is ensuring that students do not face any problem during their last-minute revisions. Aditya, a lawyer and ex-general secretary of Sector P3, says, "There is a temple in centre of the four buildings of our sector. Every morning, priests perform arti on loudspeaker, but since boards are beginning, we have asked the temple authorities to decrease the volume of the speakers so that the kids do not face any kind of disturbance. Also, keeping the exams in mind, we have circulated messages in our sector, asking people not to play loud music."
 
 Jitendra Bhati, RWA president, Sector Alpha 1, says, "Last week, a jagran was organised in our locality that went on till late night. One of the residents, whose son is preparing for board exams, called me at midnight to complain about the loud music. Since it’s a religious activity, we can’t just ask people to shut it down, so we requested them to lower the volume. Since exams are on, residents in the area do not excuse any kind of disturbance. Recently, a family here organised a DJ party. Though it was 8pm and they were legally allowed to play music, many residents started calling me to ask them to lower the volume. I requested them and they reduced the volume immediately."
 
  
  
 
 Anju Pundir, a resident of Sector Beta 1, says, "Being a member of the social group of our sector, residents have often approached me to call people to decrease the volume. Most of these people have no knowledge that exams are on and that their activity might be causing disturbance to students. Earlier, people would decrease the volume after much debate, but would increase it again after half-an-hour or so. However, things have changed now as people have become more sensitive and they listen whenever anybody complains. We are trying our best to ensure that board aspirants in our area do not face any kind of disturbance."
 
 — Vibha.Maru@timesgroup.com
 
  
  
 
