NAGPUR: Cab services now seem to have become popular among anti-social elements too. In a latest detection, a Jalgaon-based burglar Pappu Pardeshi alias   and his accomplice Chetan Borkar allegedly preferred Ola taxis to reach a targeted place to break houses and return in similar fashion, by booking a cab to the lodge where they would stay with the stolen booty. 

 Hudkeshwar police have recovered 13 tola of stolen gold and 415 gms silver apart from other valuables worth around Rs5 lakh, from Delhi and Mathura after arresting Pardeshi and Borkar last week.
 
 The two have so far confessed breaking into 11 houses within the limits of Hudkeshwar police station and three places from Kalamna. Now in the custody of   police, the cops have taken the two with them to Mathura and Delhi to recover some more stolen valuables from them. Pardeshi, who often travelled to Delhi, also had allegedly befriended a woman in the capital introducing himself as a sales executive. 
 
 Constables   and Pravin Diware, along with home guards, who were on patrolling, managed to net Pardeshi after seeing him passing through a locality with a plastic bag in his possession after a brief chase.
 
 It was following the interrogation of Pardeshi that his accomplice Borkar was netted too. The two had allegedly met at Bhusawal jail after which they decided to operated as a team. Borkar is a native of Aurangabad. The two, who operated in multiple cities, had earmarked the outskirts of city for burglaries. 
 
 In another major success by   police, around 22 tolas of gold and half kilo silver, worth around Rs6.20 lakh, were recovered from gambler-cum-burglar Khushal   after nabbing him with the help of clues furnished by special cyber cell expert of zonal office constable Vaibhav Telgote.
 
 Arrested on Friday, Barapatre admitted having committed around a dozen of burglaries under broad daylight. PSI Sandeep Agarkar of Beltarodi police station said Barapatre is a hard-core burglar from  . “Barapatre would lose around Rs30,000-Rs40,000 in gambling den before heading to break houses,” he said. “He would break into any locked houses before sneaking away with valuables,” said Agarkar. 
 
 Zonal DCP Nilesh Bharne, flanked by Hudkeshwar PI Satyavan Mane and Beltarodi PI Vijay Talware at a press conference, attributed the latest success of two police station teams to intensive patrolling. 
 
 The probe teams under PI Mane of Hudkeshwar police comprised Second PI Kishor Bhole, API S Mahalle, PSI Sachin Dharmajwar and others. The investigating team of PI Talware of Beltarodi police station comprised PSI Sandeep Agarkar, constables Abhinash Thakre, Prashant Sonulkar, Gopal Deshmukh, woman constable Bhagyashree and others. 
 
 
