NEW DELHI: Members in the  , across the political spectrum, on Thursday expressed concern over “judicial overreach” and called for transparent system of judicial appointments while law minister   stressed on need to reflect on the present collegium system of appointments in the higher judiciary.

 Participating in a discussion before passage of a bill to hike the salary of Supreme Court and high court judges, several members said judiciary should refrain from framing laws which should remain the preserve of the legislature. Urging members to pass the High Court and the Supreme Court Judges (Salaries and Conditions of Service) Amendment Bill, the law minister said perhaps time has come to “reflect” upon the collegium system and recalled that recently a sitting judge of a high court was sentenced to six months in jail for contempt of court. 
 
 “If the polity of the country decide to speak in one voice, we’ll find a way out...I am getting the sense of the House,” he said. A law setting up the National Judicial Appointments Commission passed by both Houses of Parliament unanimously was struck down as “unconstitutional” by the Supreme Court in 2016. Kalyan Banerjee of   wanted MPs to approach the Supreme Court and say that “it is not your function” to legislate. 
 
 “Legislation should be left to Parliament... Day by day, the conflict is emerging and unless it is stopped by the judiciary, in 10-15 years, there will be a direct conflict between judiciary and Parliament,” Banerjee said. Deputy Speaker M Thambidurai, who was in the Chair, said the function of judiciary is to interpret the law. “They can’t legislate.” TDP’s P Ravindra Babu (TDP) said Parliament is supreme because “we represent the collective mandate of people”. 
 
  
  
 
 He said the constitutional mandate is vested on Parliament and hence “we (Parliamentarians) should prevail over the Supreme Court”. This was echoed by Vinayak Raut ( ) who asserted that “unquestionably Parliament and legislative assemblies are above the judiciary”. Babu also demanded an ‘All India Judicial Service’ for recruitment of judges so that they come under the civil services rules. 
 
 “Why should judges enjoy immunity,” he asked, adding there should be accountability of judges. Several members suggested live telecast of proceedings within the Supreme Court and high courts. “If Parliament proceedings are telecast live, why not have live telecast of court proceedings,” Banerjee said.   (BJD) suggested that cases in which the verdict has already been passed should be brought within the purview of RTI. 
 
 He also sought removal of the ‘contempt of court’ provision from the statute. Banerjee also sought to know whether the administrative side of Supreme Court and high courts were liable to give explanation to Parliament. “Because the budget of the judiciary is sanctioned by Parliament, they owe an explanation to Parliament,” he said. 
 
 Once the bill, passed by the lower House, becomes a law, the Chief Justice of India will get a monthly salary of Rs 2.80 lakh from the present Rs one lakh. 
 
