LUDHIANA: The income   unearthed unexplained cash and fake bills worth several crores during the two-day-long drive that was carried out against tax evaders in the city and other places. According to a statement issued by department, “Eleven surveys were carried out in the past two days, targeting   in Ludhiana, Jalandhar,   and Moga.” 

 The assessees covered during the surveys have admitted to tax evasion ranging from Rs 25 lakh to several crores. Steel manufacturing, cycle parts, chemicals, pharmaceuticals, diagnostics laboratory, plywood, sanitaryware and stone dealers and some traders were covered in the surveys. “The department found large quantities of unexplained cash, fake bills, instances of transportation of large quantities of bulk material on vehicles whose registration numbers were found to be those of scooters and motorcycles, incriminating documents, discrepancies in stocks and books of accounts and other manifestations of tax evasion,” the statement said. 
 
 A spokesperson added that a survey was carried out on Friday at the establishment of a medical practitioner in  . At the same time, action under section 230(1A) of the I-T Act— resulting in look-out notices for preventing tax defaulters from leaving the country and prosecution as well as proceedings for arrest of tax defaulters — was on. The department is continuously analyzing the data of large unexplained cash deposits and persons with taxable income who have not paid their tax and filed their returns. 
 
 Under the existing provisions, those who do not file their returns can also be prosecuted. The I-T action comes close on the heels of a recent appeal by the chief commissioner of income tax (CCIT), Ludhiana, Binay K Jha to all tax payers and others who had not disclosed their taxable income or filed returns to come forward. 
 
 Centres set up to file returns
 
 The I-T department will set up special facilitation centers at its offices to help new assessees file their returns during the next week and assist those assessees who are not able to upload their returns online. The Ludhiana CCIT has appealed to all those who have taxable income to discharge their legal responsibility and contribute to nation building. The department on Friday appealed to people to deposit due tax and file returns for last year before the final window closes on March 31.
 
 
