BATHINDA:   state cooperative agricultural development bank ( ), Malout branch, manager   has been suspended for not preparing the arrest warrants of Akali leader and former chief minister Parkash Singh Badal’s close confidant Dyal Singh Kolianwali for defaulting on loan payment. Since the last three months, he was sitting on the file and had not prepared the arrest warrants of Kolianwali, who is defaulter of Rs 1.02 crore loan of the bank.

 
 
 The state cooperative department has now directed the assistant registrar, Malout, to prepare the arrest warrants in one week. 
 
 The bank has pledged 27 acres of agricultural land of Kolianwali, which could be auctioned if he does not repay the loan money. PADB has an outstanding of Rs 1,800 crore against nearly 1 lakh farmers across the state. 
 
 Kolianwali, who is Shiromani Akali Dal’s Muktsar district president, is considered close to Badal and many from the Akali Dal were afraid of him during SAD-BJP rule in the state. Then PPCC president   had held a rally at Lambi before assembly elections and claimed to take on Kolianwali. Earlier, Kolianwali’s son was also accused of defaulting on Punjab state power corporation limited (PSPCL) payments and an electricity connection was snapped. He had paid the bill amount later.
 
 The PADB has started taking steps to get wilful and big defaulters of the bank to repay loans. Earlier, bank employees had held sit ins at homes of big defaulters. 
 
 When contacted, Kolianwali said he was repaying the loan money but the state cooperative minister was acting on political grounds. “Many others also owe big amounts to the bank, but I am being victimised on political considerations,” he claimed. He refused to divulge the exact amount he had paid to the nbank and refused to talk further.
 
 PADB managing director   said, “The bank is trying to recover loans from wilful defaulters and nobody will be spared and action in accordance with the provisions of law would be initiated against wilful defaulters. We have 27 acres of land pledged with us and it will be auctioned soon if Kolianwali did not pay the loan amount. The (bank) manager has been suspended for sitting over the file for three month.” Sidhu told TOI that Kolianwali had approached the bank on Friday and inquired about the exact amount to be paid by him. He also wanted to know if any rebate was permissible to him.
 
 Punjab cooperative minister   has directed the bank managing director to take case of Kolianwali and other big defaulters seriously and make earnest efforts to recover the loan amounts.
 
 
