DHARWAD: History is a craft and the true historian needs to overcome the chauvinism of discipline, method, identity and ideology, said noted historian Ramachandra  .

 Speaking on history and chauvinism at the   here on Friday, he said the four forms of chauvinism prevent a historian from interpreting history in the correct perspective.
 
 The chauvinism of discipline restricts the historian to limited research as he does not interact with other disciplines. There is no inter-disciplinary interaction in Indian universities and this has hampered correct interpretation of history, he said. He also expressed concern at historians limiting their sources during research and allowing their caste, nationality, language and other components of identity influence their work. Looking at historical facts through the lens of one’s ideology is also dangerous, he said.
 
 Guha said Marxist historians, who dominated academic institutions post-independence in India, had committed blunders while writing history. However, replacing them with RSS ideologues and allowing rightwing groups to play a decisive role in writing history will be disastrous and will lead to street violence, he said.
 
 Referring to the row over the release of Hindi film ‘Padmaavat’, Guha said incidents like attacking filmmaker   in BJP-ruled states and fixing a price on the head of actor   are the result of interpretation of history by people with ideological affiliation to Hindutva. Besides, the effort to physically silence writers and scholars is a dangerous but new trend in India, he said.
 
 Guha said the authorities yielding to pressure by certain groups and banning books and films started when the then Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi capitulated and banned the ‘Satanic Verses’, and it has continued with the   government banning a book on Shivaji, the Hindutva group banning the movie ‘Padmaavat’ and it is continuing. Unfortunately, not a single politician in India has stood up for freedom of expression of the writer, scholar or filmmaker, he said.
 
