NAGPUR: Aiming to help Model United Nation (MUN) enthusiasts prepare for the conference and create awareness among them, the Nagpur   2018 committee had organized a discussion at a city café on Friday.

 Rupal Punyani, a student of Std XII, said that she couldn’t utter a word at the first conference she attended but met an inspiring person who helped her carve out an identity in the MUN journey later. 
 
 “It’s all right not to speak in initial conferences. One must just attend the conferences and soon one starts to speak up. The conferences expose one to those with exceptional skills who become a source of inspiration,” she said. Initially, her parents were reluctant to let her attend MUN as they thought it to be a waste of time. But, they started encouraging her after witnessing improvement in her personality. “The conferences are also an opportunity to meet great people who know the importance of growing in life and make friends,” she said.
 
 While   spoke about how properly communicating your point and manipulation outside the conference hall are important in addition to the knowledge you have,  , who did not get recognition in his first MUN even after speaking loads, told how there is more to all of it than just talking. 
 
 Rutwik Joshi, the person who created the NMUN brand, also shared his story wherein he said that MUN is about winning prizes and people. He expressed how MUNs proved to be his escape from engineering. 
 
 Speaking on the attires in MUNs, he said, “The forum has a formal dress code and even that becomes a competition as to who dresses better. I believe people should dress in confidence rather than just clothes. That’s what will help them more.” He shared all his stories, right from his first MUN to the curation of NMUN by him.
 
 The event was attended by highly experienced as well as new MUNners and concluded with a question-and-answer session. Dnyanada Dhote, Vansh Kher, Prajakt Dhawale, director general of NMUN-18 and Akshay Raje, secretary general, also shared their experiences that made them who they presently are.
 
 NMUN 2018, which comprises 10 committees with quality burning agendas this year, will take place on June 23 and 24 at YCCE.
 
 
