COIMBATORE: Only 10 people attended the auction conducted by the city corporation for leasing out 70 of its commercial shops across the city on Tuesday. While only two shops were selected, even corporation officials were not certain if the bidders will finalise the deal.

 High rent and bad locations coupled with nexus between politicians and officials have resulted in the corporation losing out more than Rs 5cr consecutively in the last two years. In 2015, the civic body had put up 2,669 shops for auction targeting Rs 1,300cr. But, it managed to collect only Rs 764cr. In 2016, for the 2,677 shops, the revenue earned was Rs 788cr, while the target was Rs 1,337cr. 
 
 Most of these shops were constructed between 2014 and 2015. “In 2014, several reserve sites in the corporation were encroached and many anti-social elements had taken over the sites. So, we decided to convert them into commercial places and earn revenue,” said an official. RTI replies revealed that during 2014-2015, a resolution was passed by the corporation to build 240 shops in 25 locations for Rs 8cr.
 
 RTI activist   said that on V  , two shops were set up in 2015. “But, they have lied vacant ever since. Similarly, several shops in central, east and south zone lay vacant. It is not just about the revenue. All these shops have been constructed flouting norms. The corporation did not get DTCP approvals for any of the constructions. They have not provided facilities such as parking, toilets and generators. Also, many of these shops have been set up on revenue land and in lands earmarked for other purposes,” he said.
 
 Another civic activist,  , said that the corporation has been continuously setting up new shops despite suffering revenue loss. “Many shops, such as the ones near Puliyakulam, Shastri Maidhan and  , are vacant from the day they were inaugurated,” he said.
 
 Meanwhile, corporation officials blamed the high rent fixed by the public works department, which is between Rs 4,500 and Rs 30,000. “The rents were increased as per a government order in 2012 and since then, we have been facing difficulty in leasing out the shops. Not many people are interested in these shops due to the high rent,” a senior official said. 
 
 “Only a few older shops have flouted norms and we are working towards correcting that. We have sent notices to collect the dues from several others,” he added.
 
 
