GURUGRAM: A 16-year-old girl committed suicide by hanging herself at Nuh in Mewat district on Monday afternoon after eight men of her village allegedly abducted and gang-raped her late night on Sunday.

 The girl, who was a student of Class XII and lived in Khor Basai village near Sohna, was abducted when her parents were visiting a relative and she was alone at home. The eight men are from the same village. They came on two bikes and a car and forcibly took her away, police said. After gang-raping her, they left her outside her house in the early hours of Monday.
 
 Police said they identified all eight men and booked them in a case of  , kidnapping and abetment to suicide, and under various sections of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act. But at the time of writing this report, none of them had been arrested.
 
 According to police, around 12am on Sunday, the men abducted the girl and took her to a secluded road where they raped her. On Monday, a cousin found the girl outside her house where the men had dropped her. He helped her into the house and called up her parents. Later, a brawl broke out between the families of the girl and a few of the accused men. The girl’s father subsequently lodged a complaint with the police and a case of kidnapping and rape was filed.
 
 Sources in the village said the men belong to “influential families” and they were trying to create pressure on the girl’s father to drop the case, which is what led to the brawl. But later in the day, around 3pm, the girl’s family returned home to find her dead. They said she had committed suicide when she was alone at home. “We are blaming ourselves for leaving her alone. We want the accused to be given the death penalty,” he father said.
 
 “The postmortem report is awaited. The accused are absconding but they will be put behind the bars at the earliest,” said inspector Jaibhan Tyagi, SHO of Rozka Meo police station. “Our teams are on the job to nab the accused,” said Nazneen Bhasin, SP of  .
 
