SURAT: Even as police are trying to reach the root of biometric data theft racket done to pilfer food grains issued to poor people, another scam of tampering with   data has been exposed in the city. 

 The accused Hiren Prajapati, 26 and Prashant Pradhan, 20, both residents of Pandesara, were modifying the Aadhar Card data individuals using a  . They were arrested on Saturday and remanded to police custody for three days by a court on Sunday.
 
 
  
 
 They were nabbed on Saturday from Prajapati’s office located in Shivam Complex in   of Pandesara. Police raided their office following a complaint lodged by youth   leader   who was informed by some local residents.
 
 Pandesara police booked them under various Indian Penal Code sections including 406 (criminal breach of trust), 420 (cheating), 465, 467, 468, 471 (forgery) as well as sections of the IT Act. Police are yet to arrest the third accused Hitesh, whose exact details still not known
 
 Prajapati works as agent to get applicants various types of cars like PAN card, driving license card and other government cards. He had discussed with Pradhan in past that he is in search of work related to Aadhar card. Meanwhile Pradhan came in touch with Ahmedabad resident Hitesh, who offered to provide data of a person who is authorized for updating Aadhar cards.
 
 Later, Hitesh sold them a pen drive for Rs 6,000. “The pen drive contained details of nationalised bank officer Prashant Morvadiya, who was authorized by Unique Identification Authority of India (UIDAI) for updating Aadhar details of individuals. The data included thumb impression of   and using it, the accused prepared a rubber thumb,” said K B Zala, police inspector, Pandesara police station.
 
 It is suspected that the racket has been going on since at least one year.
 
 UIDAI had authorized officers from banks and post offices to update Aadhar cards.
 
 Using the thumb impression of Morvadiya, Prajapati entered the the official website of UIDAI and modified details of a card holder. He told police that he modified only age or address of those who approached him. Police claim that the accused did not change photos or other important details of the individual. He charged Rs 300 for updating the Aadhar card.
 
 Police suspect that the Hitesh could have sold the similar data in pen drive to some other persons charging money. Further investigation will reveal more details, police said.
 
 
