BHOPAL:   (BCLL) would add 50 new buses to its fleet to improve intercity connectivity to Raisen, Obaidullah Ganj, Icchawar, Sagar, Pipariya and Pachmarhi from Bhopal, according to company officials. The   is a wholly-owned company of Bhopal Municipal Corporation (BMC), which already runs intercity route along Bhopal to Indore. 

 “The service for seven locations to connect with Bhopal would commence in coming weeks,” said BCLL director and BMC corporator Keval Mishra. 
 
 Indore, Pachmarhi, Sagar, Piparia are expected to get   buses, whereas Sehatganj Obaidullah Ganj and Icchawar would be connected via slimmer midi-buses.
 
 The new development comes on the heels urban development and housing department (UAHD) proposal for a cluster-based and regional public transport services. It would provide much-needed improved road connectivity between major cities. 1,500 new buses are to ply between 20 MP cities in the cluster-based bus service approach. 
 
 Service from Bhopal is expected to be expanded to Sehore, Raisen, Hoshangabad, Vidisha, Rajgarh, Shajapur, Ujjain, Indore and Dewas. Similarly, Indore cluster would incorporate nearby cities like Khandwa, Khargone, Dhar, Jhabua, Ratlam, Ujjain, Dewas, Bhopal and Shahjapur.
 
 Proposed fleet would be part funded with financial assistance from the Union government . Proposed financial inlay for buses is expected to be about Rs 700 crore whereas the development of ancillary infrastructure would cost about Rs 185 crore. In the PPP mode, private operator would purchase, maintain and operate buses with viability gap   support by a government. Funding from state DUTF, based on viability gap funding has been capped at 40%.
 
 Support for intra city buses, inter-city buses and ancillary infrastructure would be provided by the government. Twenty cities where clusters would be developed are Bhopal, Jabalpur, Gwalior, Vidisha, Sagar, Murwara (Katni), Satna, Rewa, Singrauli, Indore, Ujjain, Dewas, Burhanpur, Morena, Khandwa, Bhind, Chhindwara, Guna, Shivpuri and Ratlam.
 
 Once bus operations starts in 20 identified towns in MP, the state will have about 60% coverage in terms of organized bus transport system as per UAED estimates. About 12% of public transport is categorised as ‘organised’. Unorganised private operators are running city bus service elsewhere.
 
 
 
 Bhopal to Raisen via Sehatganj: 45 km 
 
 Bhopal to  : 35 km 
 
 Bhopal to Ichhawar via Sehore: 60 km 
 
 Bhopal to Indore: 190 km 
 
 Bhopal to Sagar via Raisen: 205 km 
 
 Bhopal to Pachmarhi: 195 km 
 
 Bhopal to Piparia: 140 km
 
