MUMBAI: The   school which is allegedly the source of five SSC paper leaks does not seem to have records of any of its teachers. A police team was stumped when they found on Saturday that the SSC exam supervisors at Kiddies’ Paradise were hired without paperwork.

 Firoz Khan, 47, the leak mastermind who had been working there as a maths teacher for the past 10 months and was acting as an invigilator, too did not have an appointment letter.
 
 Khan clicked the papers as soon as the seals were broken, moved near the stairs where the CCTV was not working and shared the papers with his accomplices, who circulated the papers. In Khan’s own tutorial college, the answers were written out on blackboards for the examinees to copy.
 
 Investigating officer Daya Nayak from Amboli police station has summoned school principal Zakiya Shaikh and her husband. Cops said Shaikh’s husband, though not part of the school management, would go to custody centres and pick up SSC papers for the day. Shaikh did not respond to TOI’s calls on Saturday. A total of 302 students took the SSC exams at the Mumbra school this year.
 
 According to board rules, only school staff can be appointed to conduct and supervise SSC exams. “We will conduct an inquiry to find out if the Mumbra school has flouted any rules. We only register examiners and moderators with us while schools are required to use legally appointed staff as invigilators for the exams,” said Subhash Borse, in-charge secretary of state board’s Mumbai division.
 
 Khan, who also runs Brilliant Classes in Ambernath, allegedly clicked pictures of the question papers soon after the seal was opened by Shaikh in presence of two students who were to appear for the exams. He would go near a staircase in the school where CCTV camera is non-functional and send the pictures to a private tutor, Rohit Singh (24), who teaches at his classes; and Anwarun Hasan, an IT engineering student, who sold the papers.
 
 The police have said that Khan leaked Algebra paper on March 10, Geometry on March 12, Science-I on March 14, Science-II on March 16 and History & Political Science on March 19. The crime to light only on March 19, when an invigilator, Sandhya Pawar, at Andheri’s   spotted some students outside the exam centre glancing at their mobiles and referring to books at 10.35am. When she inquired with the students, she found the question paper on their mobiles. She immediately alerted her senior, who informed the board.
 
 Khan has told the police that he got access to the papers between 9am to 9.15am. However on March 19, after the paper leak came to light, Shaikh had told TOI that she would unseal the bundle only at 10am. She had said, “The papers arrive around 9am. They are on my table and no one is allowed to touch them. We start opening the bundles only at 10am. Khan may have got the papers from outside. We are clueless about his wrongdoings and are shocked. Had we known about it, we would have complained immediately.”
 
 Khan too has told the police that the principal was unaware that he had been leaking the papers. The police have also learnt that Khan had been sending the papers at least to seven other people in Aurangabad. 
 
 
