PUNE: The Pune railway station finally got a   for passengers with special needs and the elderly to enter and alight from train coaches. The service is free of cost for passengers.

 “One ramp, which is moveable, has been introduced at the Pune station. The ramp is available at the office of the deputy station superintendent on platform 1. There are many passengers who use the   every day and many among them are elderly people, who have trouble walking or getting into the trains. There are others who are   and hence getting on or disembarking from the train is very difficult for them. While we already had an operation wheelchair service, the ramp will help those on the wheelchairs to easily get into the trains. The DRM had thought of the idea and it has now been implemented,” said Manoj Jhawar, the Pune railway division’s public relations officer.
 
 The ramp can be placed on the edge of the platform, connecting it to the entrance of the coach. It bridges the gap enabling seamless entry of the wheelchair into the train coach. The official said the service is for free. “People having trouble walking always have family members or assistants with them during train journeys. They can approach the office of the superintendent and ask for the ramp. There are porters who will ensure that the ramp is carried to the compartment of the passenger. They will also set it up against the coach entrance. The service will be of great help,” he said.
 
 However, with the Pune station witnessing the movement of 62 originating and 62 passing-through trains, the availability of just one ramp may not be enough, said passengers.
 
  “The station witnesses the movement of lakhs of people every day, and there are so many trains standing at all the six platforms at a time. How can just one ramp help? For instance, if there are 8 to 10 wheelchair-bound passengers simultaneously needing the ramp, how will the system work? The trains will not wait for the passengers and will leave at their designated times. Before introducing just one ramp, the authorities should have thought about this possibility,” said  , whose father has to use a wheelchair.
 
 The authorities pledged that the number of ramps will be increased. “We will see the demand and if it is high, the number will surely be increased. We do have plans for the same,” Jhawar told TOI.
 
 Another passenger pointed out that the service should have started much earlier. “It seems that the Pune authorities have delayed the whole thing,” he said. Incidentally,  , the former railway minister, had announced the service way back in August 2015. 
 
 Instructions had been given to start this ramp facility at all A1, A, B and C category railway stations. Apart from the ramp, the railway station got a sanitary pad vending machine and a machine to destroy used pads in the ladies’ washroom on platform 1.
 
 
