KOLKATA: A day after the   —   — went missing in the river while returning from the   on board a launch, his family cried   and lodged a   on Sunday.

 Over 16 hours of search operation by 12 police divers over two days proved futile as no trace of Arindam Bose, 42, was found till late on Sunday. He is survived by his wife and 12-year-old son. While Floatel management lodged a missing diary, Bose’s wife lodged a complaint of murder on Sunday. TOI had reported the incident on Sunday mentioning that his body could not be traced till late on Saturday night when search operations were called off because of poor visibility and heavy water current. The incident occurred around 4.15pm while the launch was heading back to Floatel and was passing by Sankrail.
 
 “My husband was an extremely careful and a sensible person. I don’t believe he died by accidentally falling in the river as told by the hotel authorities. The police should properly investigate into the matter and find the real reason behind my husband’s fall,” said Aditi Bose Mitra, Bose’s wife and a senior private hospital executive. She also wondered why nobody jumped in the river to save him even as they saw him struggling in the water. Bose, who had joined Floatel in 2014 as a general manager, had been part of many such office dos in the past, she said.
 
 Floatel officials said the group of 21— all departmental heads and senior executives — had booked the launch, MV Shivani and boarded it from the Floatel premises around 8am on Saturday. They headed for 58 No. gate near Garchumuk in Hooghly, a popular picnic destination around 60kms from Kolkata. There was provision of breakfast and lunch with cocktails on board during the journey.
 
 “Post lunch, around 3pm, those attending the picnic were playing antaksharisitting just behind the driver’s cabin at the rear side of the launch, when Bose received a call and walked with his mobile phone towards the front part of the launch. Five minutes later, our officials heard his screams and ran towards the front portion when the launch driver told them that Bose fell off the launch. Some of our officials saw a hand coming out of the water for a few seconds before it disappeared,” said Manab Pal, the hotel managing director.
 
 Pal said the driver had even thrown a rope in the water to save him but refused to jump. The officials then went towards the ghat and asked some local boatmen to jump but none allegedly agreed citing water current.
 
 Deputy commissioner of port Syed Waquar Raza said they have received a complaint from Bose’s wife and started a probe. “We have questioned six to seven persons, including the witnesses and launch driver. Those who knew how to swim said they were scared to jump in the water at that time,” he said.
 
 
