NEW DELHI: The Delhi Fire Service has informed the high court that   community   or ‘barat ghars’ are not checked by it for fire safety.

 In a report filed in court, DFS said that it considers only those cases which are referred to it by the local agencies including the corporations, DDA, NDMC and inspects them for fire safety before issuing a certificate.
 
 “At the outset, it is most respectfully submitted that the functioning of unauthorised and illegal community halls (Barat Ghars/Shaadi Ghars, etc) are not covered under the Delhi Fire Service Act, 2007 or Delhi Fire Service Rules, 2010,” the department in charge of fire safety of the city told HC recently.
 
 Since it doesn’t inspect unauthorised community halls, the DFS clarified, it had no records of any buildings cited in a PIL seeking crackdown on illegal community halls operating without any clearances or safety measures.
 
 Filed by advocate Arpit Bhargava, the PIL claimed that such halls, which are used as ‘shaadi’ and ‘barat’ ghars (wedding halls), are running without any safety norms and are a threat to the life of the people attending such events. It alleged that the roof of one such hall in Connaught Place had collapsed recently, but fortunately there were no casualties.
 
 The petitioner also alleged that there are many such halls in the city, which have been built in violation of building bye-laws, pointing out that by definition the number of persons visiting community halls is always higher than those who may visit a pub or a restaurant, with more lives in danger.
 
 The petition sought “consequent remedial measures”, including closure of the illegal community halls. It also sought directions to the authorities to make policies and guidelines for regulating the running of such halls in Delhi.
 
 The DFS reply was filed after the high court had earlier issued notice and sought a response from all concerned authorities. Apart from the department, the three corporations also filed separate replies, where they assured the court that action is being taken against community halls identified as illegal in their respective jurisdictions.
 
