By: 
 

 CHENNAI: After a trial pasting five years, a mahila court has acquitted two teachers of Chengalpet Government Girls' Higher Secondary School, 50km from the city, of the charge of sexually abusing schoolchildren in 2013. 
 
 The court examined   that the police had booked the teachers under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act ( ) before giving them a clean chit, as also charges of criminal intimidation for allegedly threatening the students to reduce marks in practical exams if they complained about their behaviour.
 
 One of the teachers was a recipient of the state government's 'Nallasiriyar' award. 
 
 Sessions judge P Velmurugan of the Chengalpet mahila court found the two teachers G Nagaraj, 57, and G Pugazhendi, 52, not guilty of the charges. 
 
 Picking several holes in the prosecution's case, the sessions judge observed: "If the teachers had actually [been involved] in abuse from 2011 till 2013, the students would have complained to their parents then and there and would not have waited for two years."
 
 The judge chided the police for not including,with the charges of the complainants, statements by other. The judge concluded that the students' class teacher, Mythili, had implicated the teachers in a false case.
 
 In 2013, when the accusations first came to light, protests erupted outside the school and an FIR was registered on January 21, 2013. Nagaraj and Pugazhendi - chemistry and physics teachers respectively - had been accused of inappropriate behaviour since 2011. The school education department temporarily suspended both the teachers before eventually reinstating them.
 
 The teachers surrendered before the Madras high court in April 2013 and received bail. Meanwhile, two teachers, Jayaseela,who taught mathematics, and Saraswathi, a science teacher, appeared in the trial court to depose on behalf of the accused teachers.
 
 According to their statements, Viswanathan, who had served as the headmaster in the same school since 2011, was suspended a year later after students and teachers protested against him. "Viswanathan believed that the two teachers were responsible for his suspension and said he would take revenge on them," Jayaseela's statement said.
 
 One of the students who had complained turned hostile and informed the judge that their class teacher had influenced their decision to complain against the teachers on Viswanathan's directions. Of eight students who filed a complaint with the Chengalpet police, four turned hostile, letting the two teachers off the hook.
 
 
