PANAJI: In the tenacious battle to cure all that ails Goa’s murky   industry,   has relied on statistics that rarely lie and legal arguments that rarely fail. On Saturday, Goa Foundation took a break from the court room drama and opted for a novel   instead.

 Frustrated over the government’s inability to resume sustainable mining through a corporation and the lack of interest in recovering lost revenue incurred by the state due to allegedly   mining operations, director of Goa Foundation Claude Alvares symbolically locked the directorate of mines and geology and handed over the key to Goa Police.
 
 “We want to physically lock it up because if this department continues operations, they will ensure that all the ore is stolen and nothing will come to the benefit of the Goans,” Alvares said. “Then we propose to go to the police station and ask them to look after the ore better than these people have looked after it.”
 
 The token protest found support from the anti-PDA agitators at Azad Maidan and drew cheers from bystanders. It did not help that a new banner was put up outside the mines department that said ‘Directorate of illegal mines and geology’
 
 “We have lost complete faith in mines department,” said Alvares. “It is shameful that the Goa government informs the High Court that the ore does not belong to them, it belongs to the mining companies. The ore has been handed over by the court but they say they don’t want it.” 
 
 Goa Foundation reiterated its demand that the state government should form a corporation and restart mining operations. Calling it unfortunate that several thousand had lost their jobs due to the closure of mining operations, Alvares pointed out that around 11 million tonnes of iron ore was available for export and transportation “if the government has got brains”.
 
 “As the department of mines and geology, which is the immediate neighbor of the police department, has consistently failed to prevent large-scale theft of public property (our mineral ores) through illegal mining, and has shown little interest in recovering the stolen material or its value, we request the police department to take charge of the DMG office and ensure that it is properly safeguarded for the people and future generations of Goa.,” Alvares said.
 
 He added that since the directorate of mines and geology was not making any effort to seek recovery of dues from mining companies, Goa Foundation would start legal proceedings in June seeking recovery of revenue for illegal mining.
 
 
