KOLKATA: Several city schools are contemplating a steep hike in students’ fees to meet the increased expenses on enhanced safety and security measures that are to be implemented from the next academic session under instructions from the West Bengal Association of Christian Schools. 

 Implementing the suggestions, which include appointment of additional female security guards, more female attendants and medical examinations for staff, will require a substantial extra fund allocation, schools have pointed out. “The amount will obviously have to be recovered from students’ fees. As a result, the school fee and admission charges are bound to rise,” said the principal of a city school.
 
 Some principals, though, have opposed the suggestion of giving “preference” to women candidates seeking jobs in physical training, music and dance classes saying this could mean compromising on quality.
 
 Rammohan Mission School principal   feels the measures recommended are in tune with the changing circumstances. “We may have to compromise on the quality of teachers by giving preference to female applicants. But I have always been careful about students’ security and preferred hiring female teachers, though my school is a co-education one,” he said.
 
 The boys’ and girls’ sections of   are waiting for a decision on the recommendations to be taken by the Churches of North India (CNI) at a meeting to be held soon. “Though we are all members of the association, we will implement the recommendations that will be approved by CNI,” said John Ghosh, principal of St Thomas Boys’ School. He added that some of the proposals have already been implemented in his school. CCTVs have been installed. Also, we do not allow students to remain on the campus for more than 30 minutes after the school is over.
 
 Parents felt that though the security measures were necessary, they shouldn’t be burdened with a steep hike. “The fee in our school is not in excess and I wouldn’t mind a reasonable hike if it helps to strengthen security. But it shouldn’t be a steep one and should be done in consultation with parents,” said Tumpa Konar, mother of a Class VI student at St Xavier’s Collegiate School.
 
 Papri Saha, mother of an ISC candidate from  , said, “These steps should have been implemented long back. The institutions should choose the proposals in moderation and then decide to put them in place. The financial burden of improving security should not fall on parents.”
 
 Some schools argued that the additional cost of implementing the measures would be substantial. The average salary of a female attendant in the school is Rs 7,000 a month while the salary of a female guard could be around Rs 9,000. Female teachers for PT, music and dance draw a salary close to Rs 15,000-Rs 20,000 every month, it was pointed out.
 
 While the West Bengal Association of Christian Schools has drawn up a list of suggestions, they have asked the schools to follow the recommendations from the West Bengal school education department and their respective affiliating boards. Basanti Biswas, principal of Calcutta Girls’ School, said the school has 95% of the recommendations in place. “We outsource our security staff to agencies. If female guards are to be hired, I shall request them to do so. Otherwise, for the remaining proposals we need to look at the feasibility of implementing them. Some suggestions will have to be put in place without hurting sentiments.
 
 
