CHENNAI:The city airport is setto get a swanky integrated terminal as part of its phase two expansion but a majority of passengers may still have to board planes using shuttle buses, as the number of aerobridges is not likely to change.

 Though the terminal space will increase tremendously when the integrated building is constructed in place of the old domestic and international terminals, it will have the same number of aerobridges – eight. There will be no swivelling aerobridges with vestibules which can be used to dock multiple planes as is used abroad.
 
 The airport currently has a total of 19 aerobridges. A project report detailing the proposed addition of facilities does not mention any increase in the total number of aerobridges after the new building is completed.
 
 The new building will be able to handle 4,000 international passengers and 3,000 domestic passengers per hour.Thiswill pushthetotal per hour passenger handling capacity of the international and domestic terminal to 6,300 passengers each. Nevertheless, the airport might have to use shuttle buses for a majority of passengers.
 
 Foreign airports, especially hubslikeDubai, Singapore and  , lay stress on aerobridges which make boarding and disembarking quicker. This also reduces the time taken to complete procedures to make a plane ready for its nexttrip during theturnaround time.
 
 A senior   official said, “There is no space for increasing the number of aerobridges because of lack of space for bays in the apron area. Theterminalstoodo nothave the depth. This is a problem peculiar to Chennai airport. This is also why the domestic terminal does not have much spaceon thecheck-in side and boarding side.”
 
 “It is difficult to provide aerobridges to many flights, though airlines may be paying for the service, during peak hours because there are too many departures one after the other. Most of the planes are parked on bays away from the terminals,” he added.
 
  ( ) national president   said aerobridges improve the boarding experience but not all airportsin thecountry can do away with shuttle buses. “Only large airports in the US and the Middle East have 120 or more aerobridges per terminals. The facilities are expected to improve as a satellite terminal is being planned in Chennai,” he added.
 
