NAGPUR: The residents of Pardi, Bharatwada and Punapur can heave a sigh of relief as   (NMC) has promised to regularize illegal constructions coming under the Smart City project. Earlier, Nagpur Improvement Trust (NIT) had refused to regularize constructions on agricultural land under the Gunthewari Act. Now, NMC has been empowered to undertake town planning of the area on its own and regularize constructions.

 Addressing land owners of the Smart City area at Bhawani Mata Mandir, Pardi, municipal commissioner   said the development of Pardi, Bharatwada and Punapur was very haphazard, and NMC would do it in a planned manner and make it a model zone. NMC had organized a meeting with land owners on Thursday afternoon.
 
 The commissioner said that use of 51% of land in the three areas was agricultural. “We will change the land use and make it available for development, public as well as private,” he added.
 
 Mudgal further said that Hinjewadi, Baner and Aundh areas of Pune had become the new business district of the city due to their proximity to Mumbai-Pune Expressway. Similarly, areas coming under Smart City project would attract new businesses due to planned development and excellent infrastructure. The commissioner also promised to provide skill development training to youths living in Smart City area.
 
 Nagpur East MLA   told the gathering that if any person’s house was acquired by NMC, he would get a new house of bigger size. “We will given equal area of land even if a single square foot is acquired. Land owners should not bother about acquisition,” he added.
 
 Ramnath Sonawane, head of NMC’s Smart City project, said that earlier 951 acre were to be taken up under the area based development scheme. “However, due to request from residents and public representatives, we have increased the scope to 1,730 acre,” he added.
 
 Explaining the Smart City project, Sonawane said, “We will provide you world class basic amenities and enable you to get civic services through information technology.”   of NMC’s consultant HCP gave a detailed presentation on the project. NMC zone chairman Dipak Wadibhasme demanded that a post office, digital library and police station be started in the area.
 
 
