Controversial ' ' 11 contestant   had ruffled a lot of feathers when she was on the reality show, but she seems to have turned a new leaf and has vowed to steer clear of all controversies.

 “I have grown as a person and have realised that it’s better to focus on work than get involved in petty fights,” she quipped, during her visit to Hyderabad on Sunday. 
 
 Arshi’s sensational claims — stating that she had an affair with Pakistani cricketer   and that she was pregnant with his child (she later admitted that she lied about her pregnancy), and her allegations against spiritual leader Radhe Maa, claiming that the self-styled Godwoman runs a sex-racket — have earned her the tag ‘controversy queen’. The model and actor who was in town to attend the Hyderabad Literary Festival says her new-found recognition has helped her evolve as a person and insists that she’s no longer looking for controversies. 
 
 “I’m not a controversy queen. Everybody makes mistakes, and there was a time when I used to enjoy saying things and getting all the attention. However, I have matured with time and working with Salman Khan has changed me as a person. Arshi Khan will not be a controversial queen anymore,” she declares. 
 
 Recently, Arshi had hosted a party after the 'Bigg Boss' show was completed, but the show’s winner   was conspicuous by her absence. Arshi later tweeted a shaayari that seemed to be directed at Shinde for not attending the party. Vehemently denying it, Arshi said, “When I had invited her, she had already said she would not attend the party as she would be out of town. Otherwise she would’ve certainly attended it.”
 
 Arshi had gotten into a lot of fights with fellow contestants on the show, most notably  . The model-cum-actress now insists that it’s water under the bridge. “I’m a moody person and have never shied away from speaking my mind. Even today, my thinking doesn’t align with some of those on the show and probably never will. Both Hina and I have had our differences and said things about each other, but the show is over and we’re friends now,” Arshi explains.
 
 Post her television commitments, Arshi says she’s open to acting in films down south and will gleefully accept the chance to work in Tollywood. “I would love to work in Telugu films, but they need to be good films and the script should appeal to me. But yes, I’d love to work in Tollywood,” she signs off.
 
