NEW DELHI: Six months after President   took oath, his popularity on social media is rising at a rapid clip. While followers have increased by close to 6 lakh on Twitter, the President is the second most popular Indian in Facebook's top ten. 

 Behind the increase in popularity is a newly constituted social media team in the President's office. 
 
 "The team was set up recently, and has been working on a number of interesting projects," said a senior official in Rashtrapati Bhavan. One such project was a short video that was put up on Janaury 7 on Twitter. The video showcases some of the rooms in the Rashtrapati Bhavan that are open for public viewing. 
 
 The 43-second video went viral, eliciting an enthusiastic response from the public. "It got 1 lakh views, and 21,000 likes. It got retweeted over 6,000 times," said the official. 
 
 The video invites the general public to visit the Rashtrapati Bhavan, the "embodiment of the Indian republic", and has images of the inside of the presidential palace, including the Durbar Hall, Ashoka Hall, library, state dining room and south drawing room.
 
  It's not just Twitter and Facebook on the social media team's list. President Ram Nath Kovind will be debuting on Instagram soon. "A pilot account has been set up and it already has over 13,500 followers," said the official, adding that Instagram was the medium of choice to "connect with the millennials". 
 
  On Twitter, Kovind saw a spurt in followers, going from 32.5 lakh "inherited" followers to 38.2 lakh currently. 
 
  On Facebook, added the Rashtrapati Bhawan official, the President is the second most popular Indian in the top ten list, after Prime Minister Narendra Modi. "The President has 4.9 million followers, of which 4.3 million are from India," he said. 
 
  Interestingly, a significant number of Kovind's followers on social media come from smaller towns, though the President also has many followers from countries like US, UK, Pakistan etc. as well. 
 
 One of the reasons for the greater engagement with social media, which has reflected in more eyeballs, is that the President's Secretariat now live streams events regularly.
 
 "Earlier, it was not a regular phenomenon," said the official. A case in point is the live streaming of the ceremony - presenting of silver trumpets and trumpet banner to the Presidential Bodyguards, which took place in November last year. "One lakh people watched the live streaming, while 2.89 lakh watched the video in total," said the official. The reach of the video was one million.
 
  All this, say Rashtrapati Bhawan sources, has resulted in more people coming to visit the President's home. Visit days have been increased from three to four days a week, as President Kovind is very keen that more people visit the Rashtrapati Bhawan, said official. "It will eventually be held through the week," the official added. Number of visitors are 5,000-6,000 on average per day. "Requests are much more but only a limited number of people are allowed on a visit each day," said the official. Bookings for visits by foreign delegates and countries are also being made. 
 
 
