CHANDIGARH: Helpless residents and   ( ) area councillor of Sector 10 are clueless about how to get rid of the stray   in the area. 

  
  Residents avoid visiting the neighbourhood park as the dogs there often attack them
 
 During a visit to Sector 10, residents complained that they are fed up of calling up the authorities to stop stray dog menace in their locality which has left them in panic.
 
 Residents said earlier the population of the dogs was less and they were not as ferocious as they are now. But from the past few months, the situation has become worse as the dogs now have started attacking the visitors to the area. Residents, especially the senior citizens, now avoid evening walks in their neighbourhood parks due to stray dogs.
 
 Residents complained that last week, there was an entrance exam in the nearby school and the parents sat in the park while waiting for their children to come out. The stray dogs started attacking them. They had no option but to leave the park immediately.
 
 Maheshinder Singh Sidhu, area councillor of Sector 10, said he is receiving the complaints not only from Sector 10. Recently, the residents and shopkeepers from Sector 2, 8, 9 and 10, also submitted a complaint about the problems of stray dogs to him. He said, a few of the residents feed these dogs and hence they have made this sector their home.
 
 Gurnam Singh, the organising secretary of resident welfare association (RWA) of Sector 10, raised the issue in the Federation of Sectors' Welfare Association of Chandigarh (Foswac) meeting. He said, before starting his car everytime, he has to check whether any dog is resting under it or not. In the past, there have been incidents in the locality in which dogs who sat under the car attacked the owner. He said they have a neighbourhood park which is well maintained. But because of the stray dogs, residents avoid visiting it.
 
 "Dogs are chasing men and men are chasing dogs," said H S Bobarai, a resident of Sector 10. "It is strange that the authorities are not concerned about human beings. They seem to be more worried about the stray dogs and their safety."He said stray dogs start barking late at night for no reasons. "Authorities have to come up with a solution to this," he added. 
 
 Shiv Dev Singh, a senior citizen living in Sector 10, said, the stray dogs search food in the garbage bins inside the parks. "Earlier, the dogs were lesser in number. They were also people-friendly. But recently, few dog-bite cases came to light, due to which we raised the issue with the authorities," he added.
 
 
