LUICKNOW: Samajwadi Party’s victory in the Gorakhpur and Phulpur bypolls was not just about the support from the Bahujan Samaj Party alone. In fact, it was a combination of three well-crafted moves that   made within a fortnight ahead of the polls.

 To begin with,   decided to maintain a safe distance from the   party to keep those party workers in good humour who were unhappy over the alliance that the two had forged ahead of the 2017 assembly elections and eventually ended up facing a rout. While Akhilesh was reduced to 47 seats, Congress secured seven seats in the polls. With no initiative from the other side, SP decided to go alone with the backing of a number of small party which were willing to extend support to defeat BJP.
 
 The next move came with SP national president stitching up an alliance of at least eight other parties, including some which may not have a strong following when it comes to the state’s electoral politics but have a hold on certain castes and communities which are in abundance in Gorakhpur and Phulpur.
 
 To begin with, Akhilesh not only shook hands with the Nirbal Indian Shoshit Hamara Aam Dal (NISHAD) Party and Peace Party to consolidate the caste and the minority community but went ahead to field Pravin Nishad from Gorakhpur Lok Sabha seat which was vacated by chief minister Yogi Adityanath. Pravin is the son of NISHAD chief Sanjay Nishad.
 
 
 
 The move proved a masterstroke as Nishad community is the largest sub-caste of the Other Backward Castes (OBC) in the constituency comprising 3.5 lakh or roughly 17% of the total electorate.
 
 Similarly in Phulpur, the party fielded Nagendra Pratap Singh Patel to focus on the considerable chunk of the Patels in the region. Apart from the Muslim votebank that has traditionally died with SP, Akhilesh allied with the Peace Party which has a significance presence in eastern UP. SP’s choice of candidates in the two constituencies made it easy for the BSP to support the SP.
 
 Apart from BSP, Nishad Party and Peace Party, SP national president reached out to   (NCP), Communist Party (Marxist) and other left outfits like the BKP (Male), Forward Block, Rashtriya Lok Dal, Pragatisheel Manav Samaj Party and likes. They all announced their support to the SP candidate.
 
 On the face of it, the smaller parties may not have been able to consolidate any sizeable chunk of electorate but contributed in a big way in sending out a message that SP was reaching out to all caste and communities to mobilize them against the BJP.
 
 And he showed the acumen of a seasoned politician when he overcame the memories of a bitter ties with the BSP to take an initiative to seek Mayawati’s support. The arrangement between the two parties was finalised within a couple of meetings and day after Holi, both the parties went to town with their tie-up. Then, it was still a week of campaigning left. The cadre of the two parties wasted no time in hitting it off.
 
 
