Before taking up the role of the anchor for the game show  ,   might have had many predecessors such as Pearle Maaney, Prajod Kalabhavan, Alina Padikkal and Sreelakshmi Sreekumar. However, Lakshmi has always been keen to carve her on identity.

  The show’s fifth host and an MBA holder tells us about the journey so far and the positive vibes.
 
 
 
  I have always had the opportunity to host music reality shows, be it Dew Drops, Tharolsvam, Patturumal, Kutti Patturumal or Mylanchi. So when the offer for Tamar Padar came my way, I was a bit hesitant as it was a completely different genre and I had doubts whether I could pull it off.
 
 But as the days progressed, things became easier for me. The repartee that you see on-screen through the rib-tickling punch lines of comedians Noby chettan, Nelson chettan, Pashanam Shaji and the others is spontaneous. I have to always be on my toes, with an instant witty reply. It was producer Anoop John’s support that helped me achieve this feat and maintain the standard, which the earlier hosts had set, and I am glad I am able to do it.
 
 
 
 
 The sensibilities of the audience are bound to be different. So, initially there were a few stumbling blocks for the show, with a not-so warm welcome for the fun activities. Hence, we thought it best to downplay the promo videos online. To our surprise, people started pouring in their support and were keen to watch all the videos, which served as a clear indicator that there is a larger section of people who liked it.
 
 
 
  Unlike in other shows where the contestants are given grooming before the shoot, we do not act or pretend in Tamar Padar. We behave as we are both on and off-screen. My teammates keep pulling my leg and playing pranks. Even off-screen, it never feels that we have gathered for a shoot, and we are more like the cheerful lot you would spot in a kalyana veedu.
 
 For instance, there was an episode when I was giving scores for a task and Noby chettan started arguing that he should have got 10 marks instead of seven. Seeing him lose temper for the first time made me uneasy, and though my producer kept on saying that I was right, I was asked to apologise so that the issue would be settled and was literally on the verge of tears. It was only when I said that I will have to call it quits that everyone burst out laughing and put an end to the suspense.
 
 
 
 
 I think God has been very kind to me because of which I was part of shows one after the other, and I never had to sit idle, once I began working. However, I feel in order to survive in the field, you have to be lucky too. My parents (Bindu and Unnikrishnan) have been very supportive from the beginning. It is my late grandmother, who was a constant source of encouragement and kept insisting that I push myself to do the best. My dream is to perform well every single time so that the audience remember me even when I am away from the industry.
 
