KOLKATA: A large number of Bengali book fans are visiting the book fair only to browse titles and compile lists. The actual buying takes place online — on the webpages of five city stores.

 Though big publishers were initially apprehensive about tying up with e-stores, they now agree that the digital platforms have made sizeable additions to their sales. The firms now extend huge discounts — at times as much as 40% — to these online stores, which they then pass on to buyers. This year, some online stores have set up stalls on the book fair grounds, not only to spread awareness about themselves, but also to report the book fair live for buyers unable to visit.
 
 Boichoi.com and  .com are two of these e-stores. “If you visit our website you will be amazed at the number of hits, interactions and orders that are pouring in now that the book fair is on. We are constantly giving updates on new books on the stacks, encouraging buyers to place orders, posting pictures and inviting people to take a virtual tour of the fair with us. There is a huge response,” said Chiranjit Das of Aranyamon.com.
 
 Online sales comprise at least 25% of the total Bengali books sold by publishers. There is a sizeable rise in these figures during the book fair and the trend continues over   and the pujas. Even during a lean period, online Bengali bookstores make anything between Rs 1.5 lakh to Rs 3 lakh, say proprietors.
 
 “On an average, we sell at least 3,000 volumes a month and during a brisk period we sell as many as 5,000 books. At this moment we are dealing with a stock of 25,000 Bengali titles,” explained  , the proprietor of the three-year-old readbengalibooks.com. There are several offers too, like autographed copies of the recently released autobiography of Prosenjit Chatterjee that are only available on this website. The store also has free delivery on a minimum charge of Rs 300.
 
 Delivery, however, is a big issue for these stores. “On an average, a Bengali book costs Rs 175 and its weight is anywhere between 30gm and 40gm. To absorb delivery costs, I have now started my own courier service,” said  , of  .com.
 
 Ishita Chakraborty, a young blogger, has been buying books online for the past two years. “I buy both English and Bengali books online, simply because of the additional discounts and the convenience of receiving books at home,” she said.
 
 “Digital sales of books have added wind to our sail. Physical sales may have dipped, but online stores have helped attract the young crowd,” said Subhankar De of Dey’s Publishing.
 
