KOCHI: Private   operators and transport sector experts have called for rationalizing the routes of city services and revising their running time. Unless the running time of buses are revised it will not be possible to address rash driving and unhealthy competition, they said.

 K B  , district secretary, private bus operators’ association (PBOA) said ordinary buses have to cover 1 km distance in three minutes. 
 
 “Earlier, this was two-and-half minutes. The government should review the running time every year considering the increasing number of vehicles and traffic congestion on city roads. On most days when there are heavy traffic blocks, it is nearly impossible for buses to stick to this schedule.”
 
 Experts said if the state government and the Metro agency are keen on making public transport attractive they should be able to promote it as a safe and responsible mode. D Dhanuraj, chairman of city-based think tank Centre for   (CPPR), said that it is more than 15 years since   rationalisation has been carried out in the city. “Buses speed through the city to reach the punching stations on time. This is an unscientific and outdated method. With the help of GPS and advanced software it is possible to track the movement of each individual bus. This data has to be compiled and analysed to decide on running time scientifically,” he said.
 
 According to George Joseph, partner of   (GCBT), a limited liability partnership company of private bus operators, the private buses continue to operate on the same routes they have been servicing for decades. For example, there are no private bus services along the   route linking Kundanoor junction and Alexander Parambithara bridge. Introduction of more buses through this route will help decongest the city. “The RTO and other associated departments should consider possibilities of utilizing routes available in areas which are not serviced by public transport systems,” he said.
 
 Suneer dismissed the possibility of bus operators operating mini buses through narrow byroads in the city. He said that such routes are being already serviced by online cab services and auto rickshaws. “Three years ago, a private bus used to get 1,200-1,500 commuters per day. Now it has come down to 750-850 per day. We have been noticing the trend ever since online taxi services started operations in the city,” he said. He said the priority of commuters have changed.
 
 “The online taxis pick them up at their door step, and they can travel in the comfort of air-conditioned vehicles. People do not have to walk in the sun or rain to catch a bus. The buses have lost passengers to carpooling facility introduced by online taxi service providers,” he added.
 
 Meanwhile, RTO officials said that they do not have any plans to review route rationalisation any time soon. 
 
 
