CHANDIGARH: After the parliamentary committee on external affairs observed that   had become a “hotbed for drugs and illegal smuggling” through the border with Pakistan, it has now listed in Parliament the new steps being taken by the BSF to curb the menace.

 The 31-member committee, headed by   MP  , presented its 19th report in Parliament on January 5. Based on the responses given by the Union government and the BSF, the panel told the   that work on construction of 631-km-long roads along the international border in Punjab will be taken up soon. The parliamentary committee had earlier expressed concern on poor road conditions along the border.
 
 The government replied to the panel that for the construction of roads, bridges and culverts in Punjab, approval has been accorded to an estimated expenditure of Rs 8.2 crore for consultancy work and design, and for initiation of tender on engineering, procurement and construction (EPC) mode for construction of lateral and axial roads along border.
 
 
  
 
 Similarly, the committee had earlier suggested that BSF should sufficiently shore up defences against drug trafficking and there should be a greater synergy between various agencies to counter drug menace in Punjab.
 
 The BSF has responded that anti-tunneling exercise is being conducted on regular basis in vulnerable areas. The committee, on January 5, appraised Parliament that to curb the smuggling of drugs, the BSF has also introduced hitech surveillance equipment.
 
 The report states, floodlights had since been installed and special operations were being conducted along the border and in-depth areas.
 
 Former deputy CM Sukhbir Badal said drug seizures in Punjab were not a reflection of their use in the state. “Our government had seized maximum drugs as Punjab is a transit route of drugs. Narcotics are supplied from Pakistan through Punjab for further supply in the international market. The Congress as well as AAP had created wrong perception of Punjab youth to defame them as addicts just to win assembly polls. And, Congress has not arrested any drug lord till date,” he said.
 
