CHANDIGARH: City residents appears to be little interested in the framing of the   policy, if the lukewarm response is an indicator. The Chandigarh administration has received only 145 objections\suggestion on the draft parking policy from residents, that too, after extending the last date of submission thrice.

  
  
 
 The urban planning department had first set December 10 as deadline for submission before finalising the draft policy, which was extended to January 15. After not receiving much response, the department was forced to extend the deadline till February 28.
 
 Out of total, 25 objections were submitted physically while remaining were sent via email. A committee will be formed for studying the objections\suggestion. Changes will be made in the draft rules on recommendation of the committee, if required.
 
 Various industrial associations, resident welfare association,   (CBM) and architects have submitted their objections\suggestions of the policy. The proposed stringent provisions in the policy aimed at putting a check on sale of cars have evoked strong response from city residents.
 
 In the draft, the administration has proposed to put a cap on number of cars to be sold in one quarter and to charge road tax up to half of the price of cars costing Rs 10 lakh and above and on the second car purchased. A majority of residents have termed the draft as a mean for generating revenue rather than resolving the problem of parking in the city.
 
 For addressing the problem of congestion, the residents have called for need to improve the public transportation, introducing concept of carpooling, starting bus services on outer ring road and revival of   rail project. The residents have urged the administration to work on single side entry and exit policy to ease the inflow and outflow of traffic.
 
 On December 13, the draft of the policy was also discussed by elected representatives of Chandigarh municipal corporation (MC), who had have called for developing required infrastructure to meet the ever increasing parking demand before implementing the parking policy.
 
 In the draft parking policy, the authorities have proposed stringent measures incorporated in the draft parking policy — to charge road tax up to half of the price of cars costing Rs 10 lakh and above and on the second car purchased — to discourage residents from buying more vehicles. After receiving strong reactions from the general public, the measures are most likely to remain on paper only.
 
 
 
 
