NAVI MUMBAI/MUMBAI: Tomato   at the   market in Vashi have plummeted to Rs6-7/kg from Rs16-20 a fortnight ago. But retailers in most parts of Mumbai are charging Rs25/kg, with the odd exception of Rs10-20 in some localities.

 Consumers have been paying exorbitant prices for this kitchen staple and rates had peaked to Rs80-100 in July 2017.
 
 Wednesday’s rate at Hirendra store in Powai and Santraj in Juhu was Rs25. Lallu Veg Store in Pali Market, Bandra, was selling for Rs28, while Shivkumar Gupta in the same locality offered the ‘number 1’ quality fruit for Rs30. “These are bigger and juicy red. Lesser varieties are available for Rs20-25,” he said.
 
 Prices in Lokhandwala Complex varied from Rs15 at Super Fresh to Rs30 at Jain Veg Store. Bandra resident Sarovna Banerjee said   were selling for Rs10 in parts of Bandra Bazaar.
 
  wholesaler   said, “We are getting 30-35 trucks of supplies, compared to merely 10 during the last monsoon, when heavy rain spoilt the crop. The current low rate can be compared to that of four years back, when production was good.”
 
 The food processing industry is making the most of the bounty. Varun Agro Processing Foods MD Manisha Sashikant Dhatkar, who has a plant in Nashik, told TOI, “We supply 80% of the tomato paste used for Kissan ketchup. After the price drop, we are buying more from farmers. The paste can be stored for 18 months.” Naturally, retail prices of ketchup do not fluctuate with seasonal price change.
 
 Nashik tops the five districts in western Maharashtra for tomato production and is known for good quality fruits, said joint director (agriculture department), Nashik division, Dilip Zende. “This season, weather conditions have been ambient with no pest attack. Production has increased from 25-30 tonnes per acre to 40 tonnes,” he said.
 
 Deputy director, agriculture department (Pune), Babasaheb Karale said, “Tomatoes are grown in all three fruiting seasons during the year. This season the crop turned out to be good because of a late monsoon, good availability of water and right temperature. The current harvest is the crop sown in November.’’ Tajni said the good times would continue for around two months.
 
 (Inputs from  )
 
