CHENNAI: A day before the statewide bandh over the  , opposition parties in Tamil Nadu were fully geared to make it a success but there was no word from the government about maintenance of school and other essential services. Though all top workers’ unions have announced that they would join the strike,   (MTC) said it would operate buses normally on Thursday.

 Meanwhile, confusion prevailed when it came to the functioning of private schools, with some of them scheduled to re-open for a short duration before summer holidays. As some schools have slotted their annual examinations, and colleges/universities too are working, anxious parents were inquiring about the safety of buses transporting students during bandh hours. 
  
 
 The shutdown is likely to hit normal life, with almost all sections of traders including milk distributors, film industry and others, extending their support. DMK, which had given the call for the bandh after the all-party meeting it convened, has invited its allies for a meet on Thursday.   working president M K Stalin has written to opposition party leaders and farmers’ associations asking them to make the bandh a success. “Stalin has urged all of us to participate in the bandh in a big level in our respective areas,” said All Farmers Association chief P R Pandian.
 
 Similarly, trade unions of the transport department announcing allegience to DMK and allied parties have decided to participate in the bandh. “All members of our unions will join the protest,” LPF general secretary M Shanmugam told TOI.
 
 “The MTC has a fleet strength of 3,600 buses, of which nearly 80% will be operated on Thursday. Members of both the ruling party and those who are not members of any unions will report to duty tomorrow,” a depot manager said.
 
 DMK-affiliated Labour Progressive Front (LPF) union president K Natarajan, however, said members of Centre for Indian Trade Unions, All India Trade Union Congress, Hind Mazdoor Sabha and   would join the strike. “Together the five unions account for nearly 80% of the staff,” he said.
 
 “One can wake up people who are really sleeping, but not those who are acting to be asleep. The government under Palaniswami does not have the capability to question the Centre, but they are accusing DMK and Congress on   issue,” said Stalin. He also asked party cadres and others not to indulge in any extreme steps like self-immolation in this emotionally charged atmosphere.
 
 
