DHARAMSALA: If there’s one man who knows what  , ignored for national selection despite scoring more than 2,000 runs this domestic season, is currently going through, it’s his Karnataka captain  . Around 15 months back, Nair had stunned the world with his blazing triple century against England in the fifth Test at Chennai, only to be left out of the India XI for the very next game against Bangladesh when   returned from injury and regained his spot.

 
 Even as Agarwal slogged it out in the indoor nets here to further his case with another scorching performance in the Deodhar Trophy, Nair revealed that he has offered a simple, but solid piece of advice to the opener, which should keep him fired up regardless of the snub. 
 
 “I’ve told him that all you can do is score runs. Anything else is not in your control. You have to be patient and keep doing what you are doing now, which is scoring runs. And if you keep doing that there will be a time when you get an opportunity. And that is when you make the most of it,” Nair said on the eve of his team’s opening match against India B here.
 
 After his record run in the season, everyone expected Agarwal to make it to the Indian team. It was natural that his exclusion surprised even the Karnataka dressing room. “Everyone was disappointed that he could not make it. Obviously, after scoring so many runs, one would want to be there. As a team, everyone is behind him,” Nair confessed.
 
 The Karnataka skipper assured, though, that the snub hadn’t dampened Agarwal’s spirit. “Anyone (in his position) would be disappointed, but I don’t think he has let it affect him. He is continuing to score runs the way he has been,” he said.
 
 Agarwal first rose to prominence when he was picked for the 2010 Under-19 World Cup in New Zealand, but he couldn’t translate his initial promise in age-group cricket to the senior level. “He has always been a hard worker. It is just that he was not able to be as consistent as he now is. Earlier, you would see one odd performance here or there. This year, once he has been in form, he has continued it in every innings, and it is not like he has been overconfident or anything,” observed Nair.
 
