The 90’s superhit comedy series, Shrimaan Shrimati, is all set to return to the small screen today (March 13) in a revamped form. Titled  , the new series promises to bring back the same entertainment value for its viewers albeit with a few changes. Here's a list of everything new that you can expect from the show:

 1)
 : Based on the premise of 'Love thy neighbor', the story revolves around the lives of two neighbours, where the men have a soft corner for each other's wives and try their best to impress them. This leads to many awkward and hilarious situations as their hopeless and relentless attempts add to the humour quotient of the sitcom.
 
 2) 
 : While the plot remains the same, the iconic characters will now be played by an all new ensemble cast featuring   as Prema Shalini a.k.a Doll,   as Dilruba Jarnail Singh Khurana a.k.a Dil,   as Keshav Kularni a.k.a Keku and   as Kokila a.k.a Koki.
  
  
 3) 
 : The main character of Keshav Kulkarni is enacted by Samir Shah. He plays a man who is argumentative, flirtatious and suspicious. Keku ji, as he is popularly called, criticizes everyone including his wife, son, boss and his neighbor Dilruba. However, he is in awe of his neighbour's wife, the actress Prema Shalini played by Barkha Bisht. He is love-struck when around her. His wife Kokila is a demure, sophisticated, smart and straight-forward homemaker. Her 'sanskaari' beauty cannot keep admirers at bay, especially their neighbour Dilruba, enacted by Suresh Menon. Sucheta Khanna takes inspiration from the Late Reema Lagoo to play this delightful character.
 
 Prema Shalini is a popular Bollywood actress and speaks with a classy accent. Always looking glamourous in her western designer outfits, she represents the diva that most women aspire to be. She enjoys the undivided attention from Keshav, but also dislikes him for being an uninvited guest at most times. Dilruba Jarnail Singh Khurana, is Prema's submissive husband who is a homemaker and effeminate in nature. He is very fond of Koki and according to him she is the epitome of an ideal housewife and uses every opportunity to meet her at her house.
  
 4) 
 : Unlike the earlier version. the show this time will have a more contemporary feel so that the viewers are able to relate to the storyline. With a fresh cast, it promises to be more entertaining and fun for the audience. 
 
