CHANDIGARH: The district consumer disputes redressal forum, UT Chandigarh directed a Sector 9 based beauty and health company to pay Rs 18,000 compensation for supplying a poor quality hair system (wig cap) and not addressing the client's request for refund. Company officials were also directed to refund Rs 65,000 for the wig. 

 
 It was alleged that company authorities did not fulfill the complainant's order and were negligent in providing service. They gave the complainant a wig with dirty, cheap hair, which was fizzy and not properly cut. The complainant,  , a resident of Sector 7, Panchkula said in her complaint that she bought an Alopecia Hair System or wig cap from   and Beauty company on payment of Rs 65,000. It was averred that the hair technician took her order and filled the order form mentioning details of the cap. After 25 days from the date of order, she visited the company office in Sector 9 to collect it and get it fitted, but was shocked to see the hair on wig cap was frizzy and not properly cut. 
 
 She told the forum that the wig cap was nowhere close to what she needed and ordered. She sent an e-mail to company officials on October 2, 2017, in which she sought a refund but they did not pay heed.
 
 In their reply, company authorities who were party to the case, including managing directors Dr   and Dr Sonal Shah said the complainant deposited the remaining 50% of the price of the wig cap after inspecting the wig cap and satisfying herself fully that it matched her expectations and requirements.
 
 They denied that the hair on the wig cap was not properly cut. It was submitted that as per the directions of the complainant, they cut the hair on the wig cap but the complainant changed her mind about buying it. They said she concocted the story to get her money back. 
 
 The forum quoted an e-mail sent by the company, which said, "We sincerely apologise for being slightly down in providing service." They held it is quite clear that the wig cap ordered by the complainant was not up to the specifications mentioned by the complainant in the order form. They were directed to pay Rs 10,000 as compensation, Rs 8,000 as litigation cost and to refund Rs 65,000.
 
