PATNA: State education minister Krishnanandan Prasad Verma on Saturday launched a mobile app, ‘BEST’ (Bihar Easy School Tracking), for real-time monitoring of elementary schools in the state. 

 The app has been developed by the   (BEPC) with technical support from Unicef, Bihar.
 
 “It will lead to less paperwork, faster data processing and the timely flow of information to all the officials immediately,” said Verma. 
 
 The event was attended by education secretary R L Chongthu, BEPC project director Sanjay Singh, Unicef- India chief education officer Euphrates Gobina and programme manager Shivendra Pandya, among others.
 
 BEd college placements: Seven BEd students of St Xavier’s College of Education-Patna were offered Rs 5.4-lakh package from private schools during the campus selection on Saturday. 
 
 Around 26 schools from Bihar and Jharkhand came for campus selection. From Patna, BD Public School, Delhi Public World School, G D Goenka Public School, Jaipuria School, International School, Mount Litera Zee School, Premalok Mission School, St Anne's High School and Baldwin Academy selected several trainee teachers. 
 
 College sources claimed “almost 99%” placement this year. The lowest package offered to students was Rs 2.4 lakh. College principal Fr Thomas Perumalil said most of the schools gave appointment letters, while others called the students to their campus for the final call.
 
 AIIMS-P annual fest: More than 8,000 students from different centres of All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) and other medical colleges are likely to participate in the sixth annual college fest celebrations – KAIZEN-2018 – of AIIMS-Patna from March 21 to 24. Organisers said 3,000 registrations have already been done.
 
 “Students from all medical colleges of Bihar, Jharkhand, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal and those from seven AIIIMSs across the country have been invited to participate in the annual fest. Students of some other prominent colleges of Patna are also likely to participate,” said Vivek Ranjan, an AIIMS-Patna student and coordinator of the event.
 
 Various intercollege competitions and cultural events are scheduled to be organised during the four-day fest. “On March 21, Dr Kumar Vishwas will showcase his poetic skills. Students will be able to rock on the tunes of DJ Candice Redding on March 22. A beauty pageant-cum-fashion show, titled ‘Princess Contest’, will be organised on March 23. Participating students will also engage in a ‘Battle of Bands’ on March 23. Bollywood singer Yashraj Kapil will be performing on March 24,” AIIMS-P student and cultural secretary Azhar Liyakath said, adding the annual fest allows pupils to bond with students not only from the medical fraternity, but other streams as well. 
 
 A blood donation camp will also be organised on March 19 from 12 noon to 3pm. Human papillomavirus (HPV) vaccination for cervical cancer will be provided at a subsidised rate of Rs 1,500 by a private firm starting from March 21 to 24.
 
 AIIMS-Patna also conducted a ‘Swachhta Abhiyan’ on March 4, in which students and faculty members cleaned the college premises ahead of the annual fest. 
 
 
