NAGPUR: Taking cue from the incident in which trackmen Ravikumar Pande and   nearly missed death following a sloth bear attack, the   initiated a project for capacity building of field staff by giving them lessons on wildlife.

 The project is a brainchild of divisional railway manager (DRM) Brijesh   Gupta. Senior divisional personnel manager (SrDPO) Pulkesh Kumar said that this is the first such project to build confidence among trackmen who are vulnerable to wildlife attacks, especially in the hilly section between Amla and Itarsi.
 
 The Central Railway roped in Delhi-based NGO Wildlife Trust of India (WTI), which is working for conservation in Central India, for the training.
 
 “In the first phase, 61 employees were trained. We plan to extend the benefit to over 1,500 staffers and supervisors working in this difficult terrain. The capacity building has enthused confidence among the staff and they are prepared now. Plans are also afoot to distribute kits to these employees,” Kumar said.
 
 The area falls in Satpuda Tiger Reserve landscape and hence wild animal movement is regular along the tracks. On November 3, Pande and Ahmed, who were doing track inspection, were attacked by a sloth bear during day time near Kesla station. 
 
 The bear got infuriated when   hurled stones at the animal in an attempt to save Pande. Ahmed suffered grievous injuries in the incident.
 
 “Had the trackmen been trained in handling such attacks, the situation could have been avoided. Generally, wild animals do not attack humans but such incidents occur out of fear when bear or tigers have cubs,” said Central India in-charge of WTI  , who along with two wildlife biologists   and   conducted training at Dhondra Mohar railway station.
 
 The trackmen were guided on defensive techniques to deal with situations when they come across wild animals. The staff was also told to wear long socks and boots to avoid snake bites. They were also told to use chilly spray or powder in case of danger.
 
 “We also gave demonstration of a solar stick which dispenses current and animals run away after getting a mild shock. The 20km section between   and   is the most vulnerable being part of the tiger corridor. In the recent past there has been regular tiger sighting in the forest area along the tracks,” said Dandekar.
 
 Railway supervisors and officials attending the session said the trunk route has been there since 1912, but incidents of wild animal attacks have been reported only recently. “This indicates that shrinking habitat and decrease in forest cover have exposed animals to humans. Such training sessions must be part of the trackmen training,” said Choudhary.
 
 In 2009, one of the employees was mauled by a wild boar near the tracks in Warora (Chandrapur). “We may consider holding such trainings in that area too,” said Kumar.
 
 
