MUMBAI:   elevated Yuva Sena chief   as "party leader", which might be treated as second position in the party, on Tuesday at party's national executive meet.

 The meeting is being held at   stadium at Worli, on the birth anniversary of Sena supremo late Balasaheb Thackeray.
 
 Although the party does not believe in holding an internal elections for the various posts held by leaders including the party president, it is binding by the rules of Election commission of India (ECI) to follow the formal election process.
 
  
  
 
 A party leader has said that Uddhav will be the party chief as no other name would be proposed for the post. “The party is following the guidelines of the ECI, which lay emphasis on conducting an official internal elections,” said a Sena leader.
 
 While commenting on the other Thackeray, Aaditya, the Sena leader said, “We anyway treat Aaditya as our leader but now he will play crucial role in the party functioning.” Adding further, he said, "Aaditya would play a major role and will have a say while discussing the strategy for the next assembly election scheduled in 2019."
 
 The post of the ‘party leader’ is treated as a very important seat after party chief and there are only 8 leaders in the party including Sena minister in the state Subhash Desai, Diwakar Raote, MP   and while Aaditya would be one of them.
 
 It should be noted that junior Thackeray played a key role during in the seat sharing discussion with the BJP at the time of 2014 assembly polls. Also, handled the BMC poll in January 2017 which had became a significant and prestigious issue for the party while maintaining its strong hold over Mumbai.
 
 Apart from Uddhav and Aaditya, the party executive committee may also promote few other deputy leaders of the party to leader's post as party leader is termed as an important after chief of the party. A leader said that Sena minister Eknath Shinde who hold opposition leader in the assembly in 2014 immediate after the election while Sena wasn’t a part of the Fadnavis government, may be elevated as ‘party leader’. As of now, Shinde holds Thane district Sampark pramukh.
 
  hold a meeting at   on Monday to discuss the issues and proposals to be tabled before the executive committee meeting.
 
