BENGALURU: Chamarajpet assembly constituency, in the heart of Bengaluru, is in focus with two   swapping sides and set for a faceoff. Here, the  , Janata Dal (secular) and a determined   are trying to render the contest a triangular affair.

 Sitting MLA B Z Zameer Ahmed Khan deserted the JD(S) to join the Congress, while his arch rival, Congress leader Altaf Khan, switched to the JD(S) and will be the party candidate here. The two Muslim candidates in the fray have only given hope to the BJP, which has decided to field music baron Lahari Velu to consolidate Hindu votes against the division of Muslim votes.
 
 “Chamarajpet has a sizable chunk of Muslim votes. Zameer Khan was able to win three successive terms as the BJP and Congress would field Hindu candidates, and Muslim votes would consolidate in his favour. This time, the reverse is likely to happen,” said S Jaysheela Rao, a Chamarajpet resident and retired political science professor.
 
 The contest is set to be acrimonious, with JD(S) national president H D Deve Gowda making it clear that Altaf is their master-stroke to ensure the defeat of the “deserter”.
 
 Zameer’s former aide and Padarayanapura corporator Imran Pasha and Altaf have shared a bitter rivalry, leaving a bloody trail on Chamarajpet’s streets over the years, with groups claiming allegiance to them clashing frequently. Pasha, though, remains in the JD(S).
 
 “Two Muslim candidates benefiting BJP is an obvious analysis. But my supporters come from all communities. I was born and brought up in Chamarajpet and people, irrespective of caste and religion, are affectionate towards me,” said Velu, promoter of Lahari Audios.
 
 The constituency, though, is agog with conspiracy theories. Zameer Khan is said to have entered a tacit understanding with the BJP and got the party to field a political novice against him. In return, Zameer will have to help the BJP win Bengaluru Central in the 2019 Lok Sabha polls.
 
 Zameer, however, pooh-poohed the theory. “It’s like saying the North and South Poles will come together. Me joining hands with the BJP is unthinkable,” he said.
 
 “Think of me as a weak candidate at your peril. I am a potential winner,” said Velu, from the Telugu-speaking Kamma community which has a meagre presence in the constituency.
 
 Altaf said he is not dependent on Muslim votes alone. “The JD(S) is not a Muslim party, but one with secular credentials. Muslims here will vote for our leader Kumaraswamy, just to teach Zameer a lesson for ditching the JD(S),” said Altaf, whose corporator wife Seema Altaf is still with the Congress.
 
