CHENNAI: The next few days could very well determine the political path of rebel AIADMK leader and independent MLA from R K Nagar,  , who has been mounting an assault on the ruling AIADMK in the state and the BJP-led government at the Centre over the past few months.

 The much awaited verdict by the Madras high court, which had reserved its orders in the case relating to the disqualification of 18 MLAs, is expected to be delivered anytime soon. 
 
 In the meantime, the Delhi high court, before which TTV had moved an application for using   as his party name and also seeking allocation of the ‘Pressure Cooker’ symbol, had adjourned his plea to February 15. While the outcome of the verdicts in these two courts could go a long way in determining the way forward for the rebel leader, TTV is reportedly determined to have an identity in the form of a political party at the soonest, so as to prepare for the local body polls.
 
 P Vetrivel, disqualified MLA from Perambur and a prominent member of the  , felt that the   could determine the developments in the next few days. “Everything will depend on the court verdicts. Even though the   has submitted before the Delhi high court that TTV was not a member of the AIADMK to claim the party’s name and symbol, we are only seeking to use the name - AIADMK Amma. There is no party in this name and hence whether being a member or not does not arise,” Vetrivel told TOI.
 
 Another TTV camp member and one of the 18 disqualified MLAs, T A Elumalai, who represented the Poonamallee assembly constituency said, he was not aware whether a new party will be launched. “But, with the local body elections drawing nearer, we need a common political identity and a common symbol to fight the elections across the state. While getting the AIADMK and the party’s Two Leaves symbol is our ultimate aim, there is also a need to have a political identity to fight the local body polls, with Pressure Cooker as the common symbol for our candidates,” says Elumalai.
 
 Less than a fortnight ago, Elumalai was in the forefront of organizing a large public meeting, addressed by TTV, at   “The response to the TTV meeting at Ikkadu was very huge and it showed that the AIADMK cadres are with him,” Elumalai pointed out.
 
