NEW DELHI: A   allegedly committed suicide a day after she was cheated of Rs 29,000 by two men at an   in Sector 14,  . The men got her to re-swipe two debit cards after she had withdrawn some money for her father’s medical treatment but in the process fraudulently transferred a big sum from the bank accounts of the ailing man.

 
 Family members said that Nisha’s body was found hanging on the third floor of the house in Bharat Vihar Colony on Tuesday morning. She had hanged herself using her mother’s chunni. Her death was discovered by her sister who knocked on the door but on getting no response alerted others. Neighbours broke open the door to find her body hanging from the ceiling.
 
 Shibesh Singh, DCP (Dwarka), said that an inquest under Section 174 of CrPC has been initiated and teams have been formed to investigate the manner in which the girl was duped by the conmen. Though no suicide note has been found, the cops are assuming Nisha ended her life because she blamed herself for the loss of the money.
 
 Youngest among six sisters, Nisha went to the ATM on Monday at 11am after her father Ranjeet Das, a private company employee, instructed her to check the balance and withdraw Rs 6,000 for his medicines and some household expenses. After withdrawing the cash and checking the balance, the teenager was accosted by two men. 
 
 The girl’s elder sister narrated, “One of them suggested taking the balance slip, but Nisha said there was no need because the bank would send the balance text message on the mobile phone. When the man insisted that was not reliable, she again swiped the cards to generate the balance slips.”
 
 When Nisha reached home, her father asked her why she had withdrawn so much money from his bank accounts. The shocked girl saw the bank messages stating that Rs 10,000 had been withdrawn from one account and Rs 19,000 from the other. The family members said that the girl started crying when she realised that the two men must have somehow carried out the fraudulent transactions.
 
 She went back to the ATM in the hope of locating the two men, but they were no longer there. She then went with relatives to the police station, where an e-FIR was registered. Through the day the girl remained to herself, and told her sisters that she was feeling guilty at having lost so much money.
 
 Police officers said that the girl had recently sat for her Class X exams. The investigators said that they are scanning the CCTV footage obtained from the kiosk and from nearby shops to see if they could identify the two men. They have also contacted bank officials for further information about the incident. The cops also discovered that no security guard had been posted at the ATM.
 
 
