KOLKATA: Several hundred women’s rights activists participated in silent marches at five prominent points across the city to protest against the horrific rape, murder and violence against women recently.

 Assembling at Shyambazar five-point crossing, Esplanade Y-channel, Hazra crossing, Jadavpur 8B bus stand and Karunamoyee in   at 5pm, the women condemned the action and inaction of various governments that were “busy protecting the accused instead of innocent citizens”.
 
 
 Activist Anuradha Kapur said, “I am ashamed that in my country, little girls and women are being raped and murdered and that the ruling party and its followers are supporting the accused for political gains and communal reasons.”
 
 What kind of hatred are we putting in the minds of men who do not feel any emotion as they rape a defenceless eightyear-old for days on end? What kind of justice is this where lawyers in Jammu prevent chargesheet from being filed?” she said.
 
 “In  , instead of the accused, the rape survivor’s father was arrested and died in custody due to the beating he was subjected to. In Kushmandi, the gang-rape survivor is in hospital, even two months after the incident, and some of the rapists are still at large. I condemn the way people in power have acted in these cases,” kapur added.
 
 The incidents Kapur referred to have outraged the nation and led to protests on the streets and online with people blacking out their profile pictures on Facebook and WhatsApp as a symbol of solidarity and protest.
 
 Dolon Ganguly, another activist, rued the “rise of statesponsored violence” against women and children across the country, including Bengal. “Each one of us must raise our voices against this inhumanity. It’s time for all of us to come together, protest and force the state to ensure that every girl and woman in our country does not have to fear for her safety and life,” she said, adding that political parties must stop using rape and murder as weapons to display power.
 
 Activist Kuhu Das urged upon everyone to express their anger as strongly as possible so that the governments take notice. Activist Malobika cautioned that trying to explain the routine occurrence of rape and murder of young girls and women as a result of the lust of few perverted men would be obscuring the horrendous nature of the crime. “The role of religion, caste, class in its unfolding needs to be noted and the part played by the state is even more shocking,” she added.
 
 
