JAIPUR: Three   deaths in just one month could seriously hit the   National Park ( ) and its push to regain its place as North India’s most popular tiger reserve.

 The fresh big cat mortalities, from unnatural causes, have taken the total number of deaths to an unacceptable four in Rajasthan, within a short span of time. The saga of deaths started in the Sariska National Park. 
 
 Wildlife lovers alleged that all deaths took place due to the forest department’s apathy in both the reserves. Brijesh  , a wildlife enthusiast said, “The government as well as the machinery involved in management of tiger reserves and their conservation is playing a big drama instead of taking substantial measures to protect them,” 
 
 On March 21, a male tiger died in Ranthambore after it was tranquillised while being rescued. The 13-year-old male tiger T-28, famously known as “Star” or “Sitara” in (RNP), was being rescued from a village in Khandar area on the park’s periphery. It had strayed close to village Chaan, where people had surrounded it. 
 
 A forest department team reached the spot to rescue the big cat and tranquillised it. However, the tiger never got up after being tranquillised. T -28 had been a dominant male tiger for a long time and raised two generations of tigers in RNP through tigresses T-17 and T-19, which are daughters of the legendary tigress “Machli”.
 
 Not even a month had passed since the death of two tigers in Rajasthan, the bodies of two- sub adults male were found at Ranthambore National Park (RNP). The age of these cubs was around one-and-a-half year and their bodies were found in Aanwad-ki-Khad of Sawai Man Singh sanctuary in RNP on Tuesday. The cubs were litter of tigress T-79. Vijayvergiya, “If the deaths of the two cubs are result of conflict with big cat, why didn’t the staff at monitoring with advanced technology at RNP intervene and prevent the conflict,”
 
 On March 20, a male tiger from Sariska, ST-11, which was four-year-old got strangulated after getting enmeshed in a barbed wire fence laid out by a poacher. The big cat was found dead in an agriculture field. 
 
 
