Nagpur: Mahametro is finding newer ways of increasing its non-fare revenue, which it wants to be 50% of the total income. It has decided to offer semi-naming rights of all Metro stations to industrial and business groups. In the first stage the three stations, that almost complete - Khapri, New Airport and Airport South - will be put up for auction. This model has raked in revenue for Delhi and Mumbai Metros. Many corporates have semi-named the stations for the sake of advertisement and branding. A source in Mahametro said that if a company say XYZ wins the bid for semi-naming Khapri Metro station then the station will be named as XYZ Khapri Metro station. “The lease period will be of ten years,” he added. Mahametro had floated the tenders for semi-naming the three stations in December. Last date of submitting the bids is January 12. There is no minimum amount for this tender. “The company’s logo will be displayed wherever the station’s name is displayed. This will however, be limited to the station premises. The station name will remain the original elsewhere,” the source further said. According to the source the company would be given 5 hours advertisement rights on LCD screens installed in the station premises. “This is almost 30% of the time the station will remain open,” he added. As per the Metro tender, only digital advertisement will be allowed in the Metro station. The advertisement rights are in the form of advertisement minutes only. The tender does not include piers branding or underground branding. Mahametro has asked the bidders to find out for themselves how many airport passengers using the Metro and how many road passengers coming to the city would see the advertisement. Work on the three stations is over 95% complete. They will be opened for public after commercial operation of Metro’s at grade section starts in February. Initially, not many passengers are expected to use the Metro. Its use is expected to increase after Mihan gets connected with Sitabuldi in November 2018. The traffic will increase by stages when the at grade stretch gets connected with Hingna Road, Kamptee Road and Central Avenue by 2019 end.