NEW DELHI: Kumar Mangalam Birla-controlled Ultra-Tech, which has mounted a fresh bid to take control of  , on Tuesday said that its offer to acquire over 98% in the ailing company is in line with the provisions of the Insolvency & Bankruptcy Code ( ), a contention that is being questioned by its rival and bankers. 

 
 “Section 60, sub-section 5 of the IBC provides for the National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT) to take such decisions,” UltraTech CFO Atul Daga said a day after the company agreed to issue a ‘comfort letter’ of Rs 7,266 crore in return for acquiring the stake in   Cement. UltraTech had submitted the second-highest bid and was the second-most preferred bidder after Dalmia Bharat to acquire Binani Cement. 
 
 The company has, however, questioned the criteria, comprising qualitative and quantitative parameters, saying, it was wrongly graded as the resolution professional believed that Ultra-Tech may have difficulty in getting a clearance from the Competition Commission. Dalmia Bharat has opted to pay more than UltraTech, prompting the   company to launch a fresh offensive. Daga said his company’s offer maximises the value for lenders, which was a key objective of the IBC. 
 
 Insolvency lawyers were, however, unsure if the law allowed this kind of an arrangement. A leading insolvency lawyer, who did not wish to be quoted, said under section 28 of IBC, the committee of creditors has the power to allow change in the ownership structure during the insolvency resolution process. 
 
 “Further, an offer of settlement can be made during the resolution process, which can be accepted by the financial creditors, but NCLT does not have the power to permit withdrawal of the proceedings after its commencement. Such settlement order can be passed only by the High Court or the Supreme Court in exercise of their Constitutional powers but not under the Code. There exist precedents where the Supreme Court has permitted withdrawal of case after settlement has been reached,” the lawyer said.
 
