PATNA: Miffed at delay in the transfer of   rail line land to state government for construction of a four-lane road, the Patna high   on Wednesday summoned Danapur divisional railway manager (DRM), state road construction department (RCD) principal secretary, Patna district magistrate and Patna SSP on Thursday.

 The division bench of Justice   and Justice   was hearing the case which was taken up suo motu by the court of Justice Ravi Ranjan and Justice   on August 4 last year. Later, Chief Justice   had turned it into a public interest litigation (PIL).
 
 Additional solicitor general SD   appeared for Union of India while senior advocate Devendra Kumar Sinha represented the railways and Prabhu Narayan Sharma the state government. 
 
 The delay by the railway and state government authorities in transferring the land irked the court. On November 1 last year, the court had said the matter should not be kept in a box to stale for years as whatever is to be done should be done expeditiously so that it may benefit the citizens, particularly those who are residing at Patna and suffer from frequent traffic jams.
 
 In July 2015, the then railway board deputy director S Banerjee had written to the ECR general manager (engineering) at Hajipur to transfer the land to the state government citing approval from the railway ministry, but only after receipt of Rs896.29 crore. However, land transfer has yet not taken place.
 
 The railways owns around 71.25 acre land on which exists the present rail section for running a passenger train between Patna Ghat and Digha twice a day. The estimated cost of the plot is around Rs896.29 crore, as per the Railway Board documents submitted before the court.
 
 The railways submitted before the court that it earned Rs7,800 per month only from ticket sales and was not interested in running the train service on this section. Instead of the earnings, it has to cough up Rs6.07 lakh per month for keeping the rail section in running condition. Only 47 tickets are sold daily while more than Rs72 lakh is spent annually on this route.
 
 The matter of transfer of the land has been pending since 2009 as both the railways and the state government have failed to reach an agreement for a four-lane road connecting north and south Patna.
 
 In October 2009, the then RCD secretary, Pratyaya Amrit, had written to the chairman of Railway Board that the state government had no objection to their proposal to close the Patna-Digha railway line.
 
 In December 2010, the then chief secretary, Anup Mukerji, had written to the member engineering of the Railway Board asking him to hand over the 71.25 acre land to the state government against which railways was offered land near Digha railway bridge and Nabinagar in Aurangabad. However, nothing materialized yet on the issue even after so many years.
 
 
