She has been married for just over a month, and Malayalam actress  , who, by virtue of marriage is now a Bengalurean, is enjoying this phase of her life. Films, she says, will remain her passion, irrespective of her marital status, but she is in no hurry to chase roles. “I gave up set hopping a while ago and have been at peace with the one or two films I do in a year for a while. I want to continue working at this pace, so if a good role comes my way, I will definitely take it up,” she says. Eager to promote her first release since tying the knot, even while chilling back home in Thrissur with her family, the actress engages us in a fairly long conversation about why she took up  , working with   and so on. 

 
 If I am to wait for female-centric roles, then I have to wait forever. Getting a role that satisfies you completely is like finding a needle in a haystack. Even in Malayalam, I have done substantial roles in hero-centric films; yet heroine-centric projects have been elusive, barring maybe one or two. My last release in Malayalam was Adam Joan, in which I had a meaty role, even though it was a male protagonist driven film. After that, I did Adventures of Omanakuttan, a movie that revolves around the heroine, Pallavi. So, yeah, once in a while I do get to do good characters and those keep me happy. 
 I knew that Tagaru is an out-and-out commercial film when I took it up. When the team called me, I could not say no for multiple reasons. For starters, it was a Shivarajkumar movie. He is someone I have wanted to work with and every other offer earlier had not worked out for some reason or the other. Second, director   launched me in Kannada with Jackie and since then, we have maintained a cordial relationship. He is a very talented filmmaker. He told me that Tagaru is not a film that places a lot of importance on the heroine, but that he would greatly appreciate it if I could be a part of it. I listened to my role and the whole story and I thought, ‘Why not? This is a great team and I don’t mind being part of such projects’. It is actually a good thing to be a part of a film like this, irrespective of how much you have to do in it. If it eventually works at the box office, it bodes well for everyone on the team.
 
 
 
 I play a dentist, whose life revolves around her little sister, played by   Harish. She will do anything for her sister. She is also the love interest of Shivanna’s character. I shot for my character for nearly 18 days and 90% of my scenes were with   and Manvitha.
 
 
 
 I first met him when he had dropped by on the set of Jackie. Back then, I was a newbie and when everyone crowded around him for pictures, etc., I kept my distance, as I did not want to disturb him. But the gentleman that he is, he came to me and struck up a conversation welcoming me into the Kannada film industry. One thing I noticed then is that the Rajkumar household comprises warm and down-to-earth people. When I then got to work with Shivanna on Tagaru, it was lovely. He is very excited when he is on set, and that is quite infectious. There would be days when I would land up on the set in the morning a bit moody. But then watching him move around changes your mood in a jiffy and you aspire to be like him.
 
 
 
 I have been fortunate to have got lovely songs in all the films I have done in Kannada, be it Jackie, Only Vishnuvardhana or Romeo, among others. Tagaru is no different and even though people have been going gaga over the title track and Mental Ho Jawa, I am partial to my track, Badukina Bannave; I absolutely love this slow number. 
 
 
 
 It’s no different. I have known Naveen and his family for more than six years and have even stayed with them earlier. But I must admit that I am feeling a lot more relaxed. When you look at my career, after the initial years, during which I used to shuttle from set to set non-stop, there has been a conscious effort to drastically slow down since 2010-2011. From then, I have done at the most two films a year. I really got bored of that routine; the monotony of the roles I was doing also got to me. So, I put a stop to that and started taking up only those projects that excited me at some level. My priority has and will be about spending quality time with my near-and-dear ones, while also continuing with my passion — acting. So, if the offers coming my way are good, I will take them up, but I am in no hurry.
 
