NAGPUR:   (NU) Management Council on Monday imposed a hefty fine of Rs 10 lakh on   and another Rs 1 lakh on principal of Society’s Nagpur-based Science College DK Burghate for simultaneously holding officiating principal charge of trust’s Paoni-based (Bhandara) Science College.

 NU officials said both the violation and subsequent action are unprecedented in university’s history.
 
 The decision was taken following recommendations of a three-member inquiry committee headed by NU’s Ambedkar College of Law principal  . Former professor of National Institute of Social Work Anil Dhage and Institute of Science’s   were members. Atram never attended any of panel’s meetings. 
 
 The final report, including observations of only Komawar and Dhage, was submitted sometime between March and June 2017. Komawar gave a clean chit to the trust while Dhage recommended suitable action.
 
 On August 19, 2014, the trust handed over the charge of Paoni’s Science College to Burghate in gross violation of government resolution of March 3, 2012. As per the GR, the senior most faculty of that college must be preferred for the charge. However, Burghate was working as full-time principal in Nagpur at the time.
 
 The violation came to Nagpur University’s notice only after Paoni college forwarded a proposal to clear salaries of its staff in 2015.
 
 NU Registrar Puran Meshram said Burghate had signed paybills and cleared financial transactions for 10 months as officiating principal. “The joint director of higher and technical education had stopped college’s salaries. The college then forwarded the bills to university. When we asked for approval, the trust argued it was a stop-gap arrangement and within its purview,” he said.
 
 The registrar clarified the college had the right to only make appointments while approving them was completely within the jurisdiction of the university.
 
 Asked why the principal was penalized, Meshram said, “As a government employee, Burghate should have refused to accept the charge.” Later, the trust appointed Vijay Lapse to the post on June 18, 2015.
 
 On Oct 17, 2016, the enquiry panel was set up after several complaints by MLC Nago Ganar to NU, joint director and department of higher and technical education.
 
 “Ultimately, what matter is administration. I tried to draw attention on interpretation of GR and freedom of trust having multiple colleges. Unless there is mala fide intention or complaints of discrimination, I don’t think there should be an issue,” Komawar told TOI. Dhage said, “It was so unnatural. How could a person sitting 100kms away administer an institution? It was obvious the principal would not have been able to attend the college daily.” 
 
 
