Bengaluru: Reclaiming the commons is only half the battle. Giving a makeover to desolate public spaces by infusing vibrancy into them is crucial for their sustenance, as students and faculty of Srishti Institute of Art, Design and Technology have shown across the city.

 Cubbon Park indisputably is a public space, but how many would consider Namma Metro stations public places? The simple question, posed by Srishti faculty Arzu Mistry, describes a four-year mission to develop a sense of belongingness to shared spaces among Bengalureans.
 
 “Art in Transit is one of the many projects at Srishti where we have the freedom to pursue something we feel strongly about. We set up a studio at Peenya Metro station four years back and at Cubbon Park two years ago. They are open for activities that students want to do while interacting with the public,” Mistry, who heads the project, said.
 
 From lightings to rangolis and playing with virtual reality headsets to setting up libraries in association with bookstores or sellers, various opportunities were created for commuters to stop and engage with the surroundings at the stations. The project is under way at Chickpet station where installations are already in place.
 
 Nurturing comic culture 
 
 Puncher Press, started by Srishti faculty and researchers with 10 city-based comic artists, has published a 150-to-200-page graphic anthology of silent comics about Bad Habits. “There are no linguistic boundaries to access our comics. We’re finetuning the submissions and working on the final form of the book,” said Madhav Nair, research assistant, Art in Transit project.
 
 Matting Cubbon Park
 
 In 2015, Natasha Sharma, then a student of the institute, begun an urban intervention at Cubbon Park, called Library of Mats, which involved installing 70 mats in the park – each 4ftx6ft – before lunch on a Sunday.
 
 Using trees as shelves, each mat was hung or stacked on trees. “Without any initiation, people started pulling the mat down and using it. Seventy mats changed hands among 120-150 people who had come for a picnic,” said Natasha, now a research assistant at the institute and Library of Mats programme manager. 
 
 Focus on ancient art form 
 
 Love for textiles and art helped Meera Curram, a faculty of the institute, to uphold an ancient, traditional art form – kalamkari. Curram’s research tries to recognize generations of artists creating these designs in Machilipatnam and Kalahasthi, among other places.
 
 The Centre’s South Central Zone Cultural Centre had invited proposals to document cultural resources in various states in February 2016. Curram’s proposal of developing a coffee table book, Song of Kalamkari, was funded after screening over 270 proposals from across the country. Though there’s much documentation on kalamkari, no other book had documented hand painting and block printing together, she said. 
 
 “It started as a project in Srishti when some students found there were no natural dyeing practitioners in Machilipatnam and Kalahasthi, where block printing has been prevalent for ages. It was upsetting because art is a source of great knowledge and people today don’t even know the difference between real and printed designs,” said Curram.
 
 How chikungunya pushed her to pursue painting
 
 Yamini Reddy had been diagnosed with chikungunya in 2015, six weeks after joining Srishti as a faculty. She spent her days in bed, unable to type or design on her digital portal.
 
 A faculty of visual communications and strategic branding, Yamini hadn’t used the paint brush for 15 years, but her condition pushed her to fill the white walls of her home with colours. “Inspired by paintings from Bali, I did research and started drawing on the wall. I could do very little every day due to body pain,” said Yamini who took six months to complete the work. 
 
 
