LUDHIANA: The district education office here on Wednesday identified the two male teachers of a government school who allegedly raped a student over a period of time and then conspired to force her through an abortion when she got pregnant.

 When this story was filed, police had started an independent probe and were planning to register a case. Headed by deputy district education officer (secondary) Chanranjit Singh, a four-member team of the district education office reached the government senior secondary school at 10.30am. During its seven-hour inquiry, the team quizzed all teachers (including the accused), a few students and former members of a board involved in the school’s welfare,  .
 
 A police team also visited the school by afternoon and recorded the statements of the school’s teachers, a few students and parents, and the two accused. “We will take action according to law,” SSP   told The Times of India.
 
 The education office’s team made teachers and committee members listen to an audio clip in which the two teachers are purportedly making a plan to take the girl to a hospital for an abortion. Everyone who heard the clip said that it was the two teachers. However, the two accused, in their written statement to the education office team, have refused to admit to the voices being theirs. 
 
 The investigation was initiated after a whistleblower teacher sent a complaint to director general of police (DGP)  , secretary (education)  , director of public instructions (secondary) Paramjit Singh, Raikot subdivisional magistrate   and district education office (secondary) Swaranjit Kaur. Along with complaint, the teacher had forwarded the 3-minute, 50-second audio clip. 
 
 Earlier, the complainant had said that he was unsure if the accused had gone ahead with the abortion. He said he had submitted the complaint soon after he heard the audio clip, which he got as a forwarded message on WhatsApp. Charanjit Singh told The Times of India that their department had recorded statements of all teachers and a few students for identification of the voices in audio clip. “We will move ahead after taking legal advice,” he said. 
 
 BOXES
 
 ‘Teacher admitted it was his voice’
 
 A parent of a student, in his statement to the education office’s team, said one of the two accused, the English teacher, admitted to him that it was his voice. “A few months ago, when I got the audio clip, I approached then in-charge principal as I recognized his voice in the clip. He admitted before me that it was his voice,” said the parent. “But he said he had not done anything.” 
 
 Indisciplined staff, says panel member
 
 Karamjeet Singh, a former chairman of the committee which has been involved in the school’s welfare, also recognized the voice of the two English and Punjabi teachers in the audio clip. In his statement, he said the school staff was least bothered about students. “They had called students for a tour early in the morning once. Though the students had reached the school, no student was there,” he said. 
 
 ‘One of them transferred’
 
 During the investigation, it came out that the incident was known in the village, but everyone had kept mim. It was because of the allegations of sexual assault on the girl students that one of the two teachers had been transgerred out. While the Punjabi teacher was shiftred, the English teacher was still posted at the school. 
 
 
