CHENNAI: Chief minister   finds himself in a predicament, having mounted pressure on the Centre by revealing that Prime Minister   was not keen on meeting an all-party delegation from Tamil Nadu to discuss the establishment of the  , as directed by the   in its February 16 verdict. 

 His attempt to create a consensus on the state's demand by reaching out to DMK working president M K Stalin too boomeranged, with the latter suggesting resignation of MPs from Tamil Nadu to force the Centre to act on the issue. While DMK has a mere four MPs in the Rajya Sabha, with none in the Lok Sabha, the ruling   has 50 MPs, including one expelled MP, in Parliament and cannot be expected to bite the DMK bullet.
 
 With Karnataka poll bound in the next couple of months and parliament session being convened from Monday, Modi may have his own reasons not to be seen rushing to the aide of Tamil Nadu. The Centre has another three weeks to officially act on it and Modi may not want to be seen doing something under pressure.
 
 The Prime Minister had made it known to all that he is on the right side of the ruling AIADMK by coming down to Chennai to inaugurate the Amma Scooter scheme. But, he left everyone guessing by not having scheduled any meeting, either with the CM or his deputy O Panneerselvam, while in the city, may be sensing that the Cauvery issue could come up during such discussions.
 
 Fisheries minister D Jayakumar sought to come to the rescue of EPS, by hitting out at DMK and Stalin for doing little when they enjoyed "plum posts" at the Centre for years. Jayakumar questioned DMK's attempt to play politics in the Cauvery issue and also underlined his party's "magnanimity" in accommodating all parties in the state.
 
 AIADMK Lok Sabha MP, P Venugopal too hit out at Stalin over his suggestion for Tamil Nadu MPs to resign. "What did the DMK do when it was was part of the ruling coalition at the Centre from 1999 to 2014? We have raised the issue (Cauvery Management Board) several times in Parliament and we will do so again this week. What purpose will be solved by resignation?" he told TOI. Let Stalin first ask his party's four Rajya Sabha members to resign, he added.
 
 "We are all waiting for the prime minister's decision to meet the all-party delegation from Tamil Nadu," said DMK Rajya Sabha MP Tiruchi Siva.
 
 
