SURAT : The   (SGWA) has opposed Gujarat Industrial Development Corporation’s (GIDC) move to invite applications from the private bidders to set up the water distribution network of 35 million litres per day (MLD) and the laying of the 11-km pipeline to source water from private pump at the cost of Rs 63 crore. 

 The SGWA office-bearers have written to   managing director opposing the move to privatize the water distribution and raised apprehension that the private company could monopolize the business in the estate. 
 
 Sources said that the GIDC had issued tender notice on May 11 inviting applications from the private bidders for setting up the pipeline network, maintenance, issuing water bills and collection for supplying 35 MLD water and laying of the pipeline into the Sachin GIDC. 
 
 At present, the   authority has been sourcing water from the irrigation canal as per the understanding with the state government. However, the daily requirement of water for running the textile dyeing and printing mills, weaving units and drinking water is not met due to the less supply of water in the canal. About 4,000 private tankers are supplying water in GIDC. 
 
 Mahendra Ramoliya, president of SGWA, said, “GIDC will be spending Rs 63 crore for the water network and that the private company will be given the contract to maintain the network, issue bills and collect monthly payments from the unit owners. We want the GIDC to operate the water supply network on its own as per the government rules. The tender should immediately be cancelled.” 
 
 Ramoliya added, “There are a couple of board members in notified area authority who want a single company to operate the water network in GIDC. We are also in talks with SMC for the supply of 35 MLD tertiary treated water, which is under consideration. There is no requirement of private player in the GIDC.”
 
 When asked about the opposition, in-charge executive engineer of Sachin GIDC, AC Patel told said, “At present, Sachin units are getting water from irrigation canal but the full requirement is not met on daily basis. This is an online tender and we don’t have any powers to decide the bidders.” 
 
 
