GURUGRAM: The city recorded near-zero visibility on the intervening night of Wednesday and Thursday as dense fog set in. 

 Gurugram had been witnessing low visibility of nearly 150–200 metres over the past few days. However, this time, the city witnessed   from 1am to 4am and similar conditions prevailed near IGI airport from 12.30pm to 8am, according to officials of the Regional Weather Forecasting Centre ( ).
 
 Some visibility was restored by Thursday morning but the levels were still lower than usual, resulting in heavy   at the Delhi-Haryana border and triggering snarls up to Udyog Vihar till 10am. 
 
 The RWFC officials said the same situation would continue into Thursday and Friday nights as well as into the wee hours of January 26 as the city would remain covered by a thick fog. The officials attributed the dense fog to the presence of excess moisture in the air brought in by the recent Western Disturbance and light winds. They said that zero visibility was “expected during winter season but does not happen often”, adding that they have recorded zero visibility only four times in January. 
 
 “On Thursday, we recorded near zero visibility from 1am to 4am,” said an official from RWFC. “Afterwards, the visibility improved as soon as the sun came up but the fog remained comparatively dense. We can say the fog was ‘very dense’ on the intervening night of Wednesday and Thursday and ‘dense’ on Thursday morning. By 8.30am on Thursday, the visibility was at around 100 metres. We are going to witness similar conditions on Friday, as well. The fog will start dissipating from Saturday.”
 
 The excess moisture also unleashed rains in the city and brought down temperatures. Gurugram recorded maximum temperatures of 19 degree Celcius while the minimum dropped to 9 degree Celsius on Thursday. On Wednesday, the maximum temperatures were at 19 degree and minimum temperatures were at 10 degree Celcius. The temperatures are likely to stay on the lower side for the next 24 hours before rising again. 
 
 “Another western disturbance is approaching Jammu & Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh and will result in snowfall in these areas. Generally, when such a weather system approaches, it leads to slight rise in temperatures in the NCR and surrounding areas. However, it is not going to rain in the city,” an official said.
 
 
