KOCHI: Health authorities in the district have submitted a proposal to formulate a special 'task force' in all wards and panchayats of Ernakulam as a contingency measure to address epidemics. 

 The proposal was presented at a development seminar held at the collectorate on Saturday as part of formulating comprehensive district plan for Ernakulam.
 
 District medical officer (DMO)   presented the proposal along with other suggestions to be included in the district plan. "The task force named 'Arogya Sena' - comprising 100 trained volunteers - needs to be formed in wards and panchayats in the district. The health issues in each area are different and the service of these volunteers can be used during contingency situations," Kuttappan said.
 
 District panchayat president Asha Sanil suggested setting up a public health centre in   considering the difficulties of residents, especially of pregnant woman in tribal hamlets.
 
 Health officials also proposed a project to start precautionary methods at the school level itself to prevent lifestyle diseases among people. Kuttappan also presented the proposal to form a special project for the welfare of migrant workers and address their health issues.
 
 The district plan will be utilized as a databank for implementation of projects from this financial year. The projects for the next five years will be designed based on the district plan in accordance with the availability of space, specific requirements in the area and potential growth of the specific sectors in respective areas.
 
 Officials representing district industries office said they proposed to set up multi-storeyed buildings at the block-panchayat level for running industrial firms. They proposed to set up a common facility centre in   panchayat for facilitating the smooth functioning of plywood firms and thereby bringing down pollution levels here. A proposal was also put forward to bring forth value addition for pineapple products in Vazhakulam and nutmeg in Kalady.
 
 Farmers and officials from agriculture and irrigation wings, who attended the seminar, called for the need to clean the Periyar which is getting polluted by waste dumping. Economist   said that priority should be given to quality rather than just the number of recommendations. 
 
 District planning committee will convene another meeting on January 12 to give district level approval for the draft of the plan. It will be submitted to the state government on January 23 and approved before the end of January this year.
 
 
