Mumbai:   of   and Ranjan Pai of   and Medical Group — the two protagonists in one of the most turbulent India Inc takeover stories of late — took the road less travelled in courting Fortis Healthcare. Bhatia, as a private equity veteran, and Pai, as a serial investor, have treaded a cautious path in deal-making till they started chasing the biggest consolidation deal in India’s notoriously fragmented healthcare services industry.

 When Bhatia, who spearheaded TPG and earlier   in the region, began negotiations with Fortis founders Shivinder and Malvinder Singh 18 months ago, he wouldn’t have imagined triggering one of the longest and testing M&A deals in recent times. TPG and Bhatia have a track record of pulling back from convoluted deal-making after taking a long, hard look at several of them. Whether it is the unsuccessful bid for   more recently, or the bowing out of the race for Shaw Wallace & Co 15 years ago.
 
 In late 2016, the Singh brothers were well-entrenched in Fortis though the sword of an international arbitration award in favour of Japanese drugmaker Daiichi Sankyo hung over them. A Singapore arbitration had awarded Daiichi a Rs 3,500-crore claim against the siblings for concealing wrongdoing in Ranbaxy, which it acquired a decade ago. The initial talks centered around a partnership deal with media reports saying TPG could acquire up to 25%.
 
 The Singh brothers held 66% in Fortis then, and just 0.80% now.
 
 Bhatia moved to propose a broader merger deal bringing Manipal Hospital Enterprises, one of the country’s top-five hospital operators, into the deal. This was seen as a move to countercheck the Singh brothers known for their aggressive and contentious transactions. TPG already owned more than a fifth of Manipal Hospital Enterprises shares. Incidentally, this wasn’t the first time both Fortis and Manipal were being nudged into merger discussions.
 
 In hindsight, bankers said, the move to approach the deal through Manipal provided TPG moves more credibility. While the exit of the Singh brothers was unforeseen, the offer now routed through Manipal was seen providing stability to Fortis, which is on the verge of bankruptcy and struggling to meet monthly staff salaries. It also carried all the right ingredients — a huge domestic consolidation story, which is the flavour of the season, and the potential of the industry-leading combine with serious re-rating prospects on the stock exchanges. Again, Manipal and TPG were the only bidders who wanted to retain subsidiary SRL Diagnostics, one of the largest laboratories and clinical chain, as part of an attempt to build an integrated healthcare services provider. The acquirers believe this would create and unlock better value in the not so distant future. Apollo Hospitals is the only other service provider of scale to operate an integrated business in a market where share of corporate chains are still low.
 
 As the Fortis board met on Tuesday, there were growing concerns whether the offer from Manipal and TPG undervalued a business caught in a perfect storm. Bankers said the fact that a large block of shares is held by lenders — with Yes Bank holding slightly above 15% — would ensure that the deal wouldn’t happen below a certain threshold. There are speculations about possible counter-offers after rivals study the takeover bid made by Manipal. The Fortis stock has been on a rollercoaster in the past one year, with punters and activist investors building up positions. Fortis Healthcare shares declined nearly 4% on Tuesday on fears that the deal construct may not be favourable to minority shareholders.
 
 Bhatia is said to have quipped how he held his breath for 18 months. Now he and Pai, who have forged a relationship of trust, must hold their nerves to see through a rare takeover of a large promoterless public company in India. “The endgame is still sometime away,” noted a banker working on the deal. 
 
 
