NOIDA: The special task force, a police unit tasked with tackling organised crime, has been requested to deploy its personnel at “sensitive” exam centres for the class X and XII boards across Uttar Pradesh, a pointer to the gravity and extent of the mass-copying problem.

 The task force has, however, said it cannot provide additional personnel for centres where the   will be held from February 6, but will “help” if it receives any information about examinees resorting to such methods.
 
 Chief secretary Rajive Kumar recently issued a directive asking officials of the education department across the 75 districts to ensure armed personnel are deployed at test centres to keep mass copying in check. “In the very sensitive centres, officers of the   be deployed as per need and exams be held without cheating,” reads the order, accessed by TOI.
 
 While the local intelligence unit of the police is usually kept in the loop about “sensitive” exam centres, the order asking the STF to be involved is believed to be first of its kind.
 
 None of the 46 exam centres in   has been labelled sensitive but four of the 55 centres in neighbouring Ghaziabad have been categorised so. Three of the sensitive centres are in Loni while one is in Muradnagar.
 
 The chief secretary’s order, issued on January 18, has also asked the test centre superintendents to provide to the STF any information about centres where the examinees can resort to mass copying. There have often been reports of invigilators allowing students to copy.
 
 Officers in the STF said though they had been informed by the district magistrates or SSPs of 4-5 districts about centres that had traditionally reported incidents of mass copying, they were not in a position to spare additional personnel. “We have received information from the DMs of around five-six districts about such sensitive centres but we are only an operative unit and cannot provide additional force for deployment. But, in case we get a tip-off about any gangs operating in the state which can orchestrate mass cheating, we will send our decoys,” SSP (STF, Lucknow) Abhishek Singh said.
 
 The education department had earlier directed all sensitive test centres to install CCTV cameras. The department has set up a team of three officials led by an SDM-level officer to examine the CCTV footage of the exam centres.
 
 “The team will be led by the SDM (camp office) and have the district informative officer and an official of the DIOS office. It will seek footage from any school at random. In case cheating is reported from any centre, an FIR will be lodged against those involved,” Gautam Budh Nagar DIOS PK Upadhayay said.
 
 Copying during exams has been a cause for concern for the administration. Mass copying has led to several papers being cancelled in the state, among them being the English paper of Class X that was cancelled in two centres in Meerut last year.
 
 
