PUNE: The list of long weekends is longer this year compared to 2017 by four.

 There were 11 long weekends last year. This time, it is 15. Better still, there is a possibility of nine-day break around   — from November 3 to November 11. There was an identical long weekend last year, too.
 
 Karan Anand, head, relationships, Cox & Kings, said the longest weekend of the year in November would give travellers a long vacation of up to nine days by taking just a day off from work. “Weekend travel, mainly popular in metro cities, is now picking up in tier 2 cities. Last year, we experienced around 20% surge in demand for weekend trips. As the number of long weekends in 2018 is more than 2017, we expect the graph to rise further.”
 
 
  
 
 Manmeet Ahluwalia, marketing head, Expedia-India, said, “This year offers 15 long weekends to plan either a short trip or take one-two additional leaves for an extended weekend leave. August can be a good month, when people can avail a 12-day holiday by applying for only four days of leave on August 16, 20, 21 and 23. October and November will have ample holidays too.”
 
 The first long weekend of the year is from January 20 (Saturday) to   on Monday. The next is the Republic Day weekend, starting from a Friday.
 
 IT professional Palak Mahajan has begun planning for the Republic Day weekend. “The November’s long weekend seems most lucrative, when we can go to Lapland in Finland to enjoy the start of winter there,” she said.
 
 For the Republic Day long weekend, city-based travel firm Hasmukh Travels has close to 100 of its clients heading to Dubai. “Many cancelled their travel plans during the New Year because of packed hotels and high airfares. They chose the Republic Day weekend as the next big break. Around 80% of my bookings are for Dubai in January, courtesy the shopping festival there,” he said.
 
 Varun Gupta, CEO, Goomo — online travel marketplace — said, “Dubai and   are the most preferred international destinations for the upcoming long weekend in January.” 
 
 Abhishek Rajan, vice-president, Paytm, said, “Rajasthan is one of the most popular destinations for January, as travellers across the country are keen to see the Rann Utsav.” 
 
 Manheer Singh Sethi, co-founder,  .com, said the bookings for  , Republic Day, Valentine’s Day and   weekends had started coming in.
 
 
