Nagpur: The special investigation team (SIT) formed to probe smuggling of illegal, herbicide tolerant (HT) seeds into the state has sought extension for submitting its report.

 This is the second SIT which was formed after more than 60 people, mainly farm workers, died due to accidental inhalation of pesticides from August to October last year.
 
 The first SIT was formed on October 14, 2017, to probe the deaths. During the chain of, events it also came to fore that there was rampant use of HT seeds, a genetically modified variety, to which the government has not granted permission for commercial use. In February, the second SIT was formed to investigate smuggling of seeds into Maharashtra.
 
 The seeds are reported to be illegally produced in farms at Gujarat, Telangana and Andhra Pradesh. The team was supposed to submit the report within a month. However, the SIT recently put up a proposal with the government to extend the deadline. A decision is awaited from the state government, said sources.
 
 It is expected that it may take not less than six months to investigate the case as it is an inter-state matter, sources said. The state has also put up a request for a CBI probe to which there has been no response so far.
 
 HT seeds are designed to be resistant to glyphosate, a weed killer used in farms. If plants are grown through HT seeds, the chemical only destroys the weeds and the cotton plant is not harmed. Farmers prefer it because this saves labour cost of physically removing the weeds.
 
 The two-member team includes joint director agriculture of Amravati division Subhash Nagrare as member secretary, with the inspector general (VIP) security Krishna Prakash as the chairman. Prakash replaced Sanjay Barve as the chairman a week before the one-month deadline was ending.
 
 The HT seeds were introduced by US biotech Major Monsanto in the country. However, the company withdrew from trials but the seeds popularly known as Chor Bt are easily available in the cotton growing areas. Monsanto is also a major producer of glyphosate-based weed killers to which HT seeds are resistant.
 
 
