PATNA: The house   was once the most common bird species in the world till a decade ago, but their   has been on decline over the past few years in both urban as well as rural habitats.

 Though   claim there is no alarming situation yet with respect to the sparrow population, but are concerned over their dwindling numbers. The World Sparrow Day is celebrated on March 20. 
 
 “Sparrows were seen everywhere till a decade ago, but unfortunately they are rarely sighted now. Several factors have led to their reduced numbers, including gradual loss of habitation and pollution. Such factors have also adversely affected their breeding cycle. There is a need to generate awareness among people to preserve this important bird species,” said Ashok Ghosh, chairman of Bihar State Pollution Control Board and an avid birdwatcher.
 
 “Due to new construction, the habitation of sparrow has dropped by around 10% in past couple of decades. In rural areas, changes in farming practices are also believed to have affected house sparrows. But in urban and suburban areas, the causes of plunge in their population have been more complex, with everything from air pollution to newly constructed infrastructures, mobile towers and pesticides to be blamed,” said Navin Kumar, member of Bombay Natural History Society.
 
 Member of species survival commission of International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN), Arvind Mishra, however, claimed 10-15% increase in house sparrow population in recent years. “In past six years, no organization has conducted survey or made a report on house sparrow population. But I have witnessed a gradual increase in their number,”   said.
 
 In 2013, chief minister   declared house sparrow as the state bird.
 
 The World Sparrow Day is an international initiative of the Nature Forever Society of India in collaboration with several national international organizations, including the Eco-Sys Action Foundation (France). The day is celebrated with an aim to raise awareness about the house sparrow and several other common birds. The first World Sparrow Day was celebrated in 2010 across the world.
 
 Sanjay Gandhi Biological Park, commonly known as Patna zoo, has also organized various competitions like photography, painting and a seminar on World Sparrow Day on Tuesday.
 
 
